10.2307/2963520|In most habitats and ecosystems, predation varies significantly over space and over time. While several studies have demonstrated the effects of varying predation intensities, the effects of varying frequencies of predation have not been addressed explicitly. Here, I studied the impact of variable predation by whelks on a mid-intertidal successional community at a wave-exposed environment on the coast of Oregon. Densities of whelks were monitored in fixed-position quadrats for 34 mo, permitting an estimation of the natural spatial and temporal variation in predation by whelks. Two simultaneous cage experiments were then conducted for a period of 25 mo. One experiment evaluated the effect of prolonged exclusion of invertebrate predators on the sessile community. The other experiment evaluated the effects of the intensity and the temporal frequency of predation by whelks by manipulating both the density and presence of whelks inside cages. Three density levels were combined with three temporal patterns of predation (constant predation, medium and low frequency) in an orthogonal design to create nine different predation regimes. The replicated design allowed me to separate the effects of these two components of predation. The densities of the two whelk species present in the study site, Nucella canaliculata and N. emarginata, were highly correlated over time and varied greatly within and among years. Some areas of the site had whelks present most of the time (high frequency), while other areas were rarely visited. The frequency at which whelks were observed in a given area was uncorrelated with the yearly mean density, which contributed to the within-habitat variability in predation regimes by whelks. A suite of direct and indirect effects were observed following the permanent exclusion of invertebrate predators, notably, a rapid increase in the cover of the bay mussel Mytilus trossulus and a slow and small increase in the cover of gooseneck barnacles and the California mussel Mytilus californianus. Temporally variable predation (medium and low frequencies) produced community compositions different from those observed under a constant predation regime or predator exclusions. In general, individual species responses to variable predation could not be predicted from knowledge of the overall effect of predators obtained in the permanent exclusion experiment, nor from the results observed under different intensities and constant predation. Similarly, the actual number of predation days, estimated from the density and number of days whelks were in the cages, was not correlated with the mean cover of species. These results support the hypothesis that temporal frequency is an important component of predation with distinctive effects on intertidal prey communities. Both the ability of some prey to escape predators by reaching a large size and the temporal pattern of prey recruitment seemed important in determining the effect of variable predation on individual prey, but mechanistic understanding of the responses was complicated by the existence of many indirect effects. While temporally variable predation did not significantly increase spatial variability in prey abundance, constant predation regimes tended to reduce this variability over the course of succession. Temporal variability in predation by whelks can have distinctive effects on prey, create distinctive community compositions, and affect successional paths in this intertidal community. Temporal variability in predation is probably an important, yet poorly understood cause of spatial heterogeneity in most ecosystems.
10.2307/2937136|Our goal was to elucidate the population dynamics of the perennial understory herb Calathea ovandensis in a rain forest in southern Mexico using matrix projection model analysis. We emphasize the magnitude and consequences of spatiotemporal variation in (1) basic demographic parameters (growth, survival, and reproduction) (2) asymptotic demographic properties of a given environment (the asymptotic population growth rate and the associated stable-stage distribution and reproductive values) and (3) demographic sensitivities associated with a given environment (sensitivity and elasticity). We obtained 6 yr (1982-1987) of empirical data from four study plots (differing in substrate, light, and density) from which we used the first 5 yr (1982-1986) to construct 16 plot-year and 1 pooled population projection matrices. This stage-structured population was characterized by a long-lived seed bank, temporally variable seedling recruitment (10-fold variability among years), high mortality of seedlings (>90%), very low mortality of reproductives (usually <10%), fertility that increased markedly with plant size, and the ability of large plants to shrink rather than die under adversity. Within these broad outlines, the magnitudes of transitions representing demographic fates exhibited considerable variation through space and time, some parameters varying much more than others (CV from 22 to 400%). Growth and reproduction were positively correlated across environments. The least variable parameters were seed dormancy and stasis of small reproductives. Observed stage distributions were reasonably close to the stable stage distributions (mean = 86.1% similar). In most plot-years, the stable-stage distribution was dominated by seeds, followed by seedlings, and then small reproductives and the reproductive values increased with size class. Population growth rates, given by the dominant eigenvalue of the matrices, ranged from 0.73 to 1.25. Analysis of the mean dynamics gave @l = 0.97 (using a variety of analytical approaches) and our analysis of the overall pooled dynamics gave a @l = 0.99, indicating that the habitat at the study site favored the persistence of Calathea ovandensis. An el Nino even coincided with the year of the highest population growth rate. Survival, growth, and reproduction varied significantly through space and time, and different plot-years were beneficial to different stages. Most interestingly, stage-specific sensitivity parameters (sensitivity and elasticity) also varied through space and time. Spatiotemporal variability of sensitivity structure has important implications. Determination of stages most @'critical@' to population dynamics will depend upon knowledge of this variation. Population growth rate was significantly positively correlated with elasticity of seed production, seed germination, and seedling growth. These results indicate that the opportunity for selection on plant characters affecting particular life history stages varies through space and time even if the effect on the single-stage transition probability does not vary. Selection on characters affecting juvenile stages may be stronger in populations of higher growth rates.
27646039|This study uses detailed demographic data to determine the extent to which functional groupings, based on seedling recruitment and resprouting response to fire, capture the dynamics of postfire responses and early successional change in fire-prone ecosystems. Following massive wildfires in southern California, USA, we sampled chaparral and sage scrub vegetation in nested 0.1-ha plots from 90 sites for five postfire years. Prefire density of woody skeletons and cover and density of all postfire species were recorded. Functional types of postfire obligate seeder, facultative seeder, and obligate resprouter are broadly useful but fail to capture much of the dynamics of postfire succession in these shrublands. For the woody flora, stratifying these three regeneration modes by life-form captures important differences. Postfire obligate-seeding shrubs exhibit a single postfire seedling cohort whereas the faster growing suffrutescent species reach reproductive maturity by the second year and produce multiple seedling cohorts. Postfire obligate-resprouting shrubs reach reproductive maturity early but have very limited seedling recruitment in the early postfire years, whereas obligate-resprouting subshrubs flower the first year from resprouts and have seedling recruitment pulses in the second and subsequent postfire years. For the rich herbaceous flora, further subdivisions are needed to capture the range of variation. Herbaceous perennials are nearly all postfire obligate resprouters, and there are important demographic differences during early succession in different growth forms such as geophytes and rhizomatous grasses. Annuals lack resprouting ability and are postfire obligate seeders. Some exhibit extreme life-history specialization and are present only in the immediate postfire year(s). Others are highly specialized on fire but persist during early succession, and still others are opportunistic species widely distributed on open sites but can expand their populations during early succession.
10.2307/1943000|In this paper I combine experiment and theory to demonstrate that aggregation of carrion flies ovipositing among carcasses may facilitate coexistence in nature. The paper is divided into an experimental part and a theoretical part. In the experiment part, I present field experiments that show the aggregative pattern of carrion flies ovipositing among carcasses, as well as associated experiments that explore the behavior leading to these patterns. I also use experiments to quantify the strength of larval competition between Phaenicia coeruleiviridis (Calliphoridae) and Sarcophaga bullata (Sarcophagidae). In the theoretical part, I develop two methods that use these data to assess the effect of aggregation on competition in the field. From the first method, I predict that intraspecific aggregation of P. coeruleiviridis females causes a 26% decrease in the expected recruitment of P. coeruleiviridis and a 74% increase in the expected recruitment of S. bullata. As a result, within a single generation, intraspecific aggregation increases intraspecific competition and reduces interspecific competition. The second method for assessing aggregation involves a new mathematical formula that gives conditions under which species may coexist indefinitely. This formula requires estimates of only the degrees of intra- and interspecific aggregation among species; there is no need to estimate adult survival and larval competition. I use this second method to show that the minimum effect of aggregation on coexistence for five carrion fly species is equivalent to reducing the amount of larval competition between pairs of species by an average of 57%. Aggregation may therefore play a major role in explaining the coexistence of carrion fly competitors.
10.2307/2937151|Recent models suggest that a trade-off in plants between tolerance of water limitation vs. tolerance of light limitation results in changes in dominant species over productivity gradients of increasing soil moisture and decreasing forest-floor light. With increasing elevation (1568-2296 m) in the Chiricahua Mountains in southeastern Arizona, soil moisture and plant cover increased and, as a result, mean forest-floor light levels decreased, in accordance with the models. The light-moisture trade-off hypothesis predicts that, over this gradient, (1) shade tolerance and drought resistance should be negatively correlated, (2) decreasing light and lack of shade tolerance (i.e., tolerance of light competition) should control upper elevational limits of species distributions, and (3) low soil moisture availability and lack of drought resistance should control lower elevational limits. With increasing elevation, however, fire frequency and litter depth also increased and soil temperature decreased. I tested the trade-off hypothesis and the role of these additional factors in controlling upper elevational limits of three pine species distributed along this gradient. Consistent with the trade-off hypothesis, results suggested that water stress controlled lower elevational limits of all three species. Seeds of each species germinated with the summer rains in experimental plots below their respective lower elevational limits, but all seedlings died by the end of the following May-June drought, apparently from water stress. In contrast, seedlings were still alive in experimental plots within each species' range after 2 yr. Furthermore, with decreasing elevation, seedlings of the three species increasingly occurred in microsites with relatively low light, low soil temperature, and deep litter, all reflecting high soil moisture compared to random microsites. From the middle to the lower portion of each species' range, recruitment, seedling survival, and seedling abundance decreased but height growth increased. Thus, dry season water stress appeared to control lower elevational limits by causing high mortality of young seedlings, rather than by curtailing seed germination or the performance of older seedlings. Inconsistent with the trade-off hypothesis, upper elevational limits were not controlled uniformly across species by light limitation. In Pinus leiophylla, the middle elevation species, low light and deep litter appeared to control the upper elevational limits. In a field experiment, P. leiophylla emergence and survival were significantly lower above its upper elevational limit than in plots within its range, removal of litter increased emergence, and removal of canopy increased seedling survival. In a greenhouse experiment, P. leiophylla was significantly less shade tolerant than higher elevation pine species. In contrast, P. discolor, the low elevation species, low light, deep litter, and low soil temperature appeared not to influence distribution. Emergence and survival were actually higher at high than middle elevations in the field experiment. Litter removal and canopy removal did not increase P. discolor emergence and survival, respectively, even at high elevation. In the highest elevation plots, P. discolor seedlings occurred in microsites slightly lower in light, higher in litter depth, and equivalent in soil temperature to random microsites, contrary to expectations if these variables were limiting. Finally, in greenhouse experiments, P. discolor was more shade tolerant than higher elevation species, including P. leiophylla. Two tests supported the hypothesis that the upper elevational limits of P. discolor were controlled by the high fire frequency found at higher elevation. First, P. discolor exhibited slow juvenile growth rates, thin bark, and other traits suggesting a lack of fire resistance compared with the two higher elevation pine species. Second, in two wild fires, survival of P. discolor stems was significantly lower than that for the other two species. This conclusion is corroborated by the observation that juvenile P. discolor occurred commonly at much higher elevations than did adults, into plots with very low light and soil temperature levels and very deep litter, a pattern likely resulting from fire suppression. Results for a third species, P. engelmannii, were equivocal, showing weak support for control of upper elevational limits by light. The lack of a light-soil moisture trade-off in these species may result from P. discolor's strategy of exploiting nurse tree sites at low elevation and the apparent fire-associated regeneration of the other two species. Nevertheless, control of P. discolor upper elevational limits by fire may, in part, be a result of constraints imposed by drought resistance on maximum growth rate and height. These results suggest that fire, or other agents of selective mortality correlated with soil resource gradients, can exert strong control over plant distribution and community composition, and should be incorporated into the proposed general models relating plant strategies to community structure.
4539083|Humans are altering the composition of biological communities through a variety of activities that increase rates of species invasions and species extinctions, at all scales, from local to global. These changes in components of the Earth's biodiversity cause concern for ethical and aesthetic reasons, but they also have a strong potential to alter ecosystem properties and the goods and services they provide to humanity. Ecological experiments, observations, and theoretical developments show that ecosystem properties depend greatly on biodiversity in terms of the functional characteristics of organisms present in the ecosystem and the distribution and abundance of those organisms over space and time. Species effects act in concert with the effects of climate, resource availability, and disturbance regimes in influencing ecosystem properties. Human activities can modify all of the above factors; here we focus on modification of these biotic controls. The scientific community has come to a broad consensus on many aspects of the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning, including many points relevant to management of ecosystems. Further progress will require integration of knowledge about biotic and abiotic controls on ecosystem properties, how ecological communities are structured, and the forces driving species extinctions and invasions. To strengthen links to policy and management, we also need to integrate our ecological knowledge with understanding of the social and economic constraints of potential management practices. Understanding this complexity, while taking strong steps to minimize current losses of species, is necessary for responsible management of Earth's ecosystems and the diverse biota they contain. Based on our review of the scientific literature, we are certain of the following conclusions: 1) Species' functional characteristics strongly influence ecosystem properties. Functional characteristics operate in a variety of contexts, including effects of dominant species, keystone species, ecological engineers, and interactions among species (e.g., competition, facilitation, mutualism, disease, and predation). Relative abundance alone is not always a good predictor of the ecosystem-level importance of a species, as even relatively rare species (e.g., a keystone predator) can strongly influence pathways of energy and material flows. 2) Alteration of biota in ecosystems via species invasions and extinctions caused by human activities has altered ecosystem goods and services in many well-documented cases. Many of these changes are difficult, expensive, or impossible to reverse or fix with technological solutions. 3) The effects of species loss or changes in composition, and the mechanisms by which the effects manifest themselves, can differ among ecosystem properties, ecosystem types, and pathways of potential community change. 4) Some ecosystem properties are initially insensitive to species loss because (a) ecosystems may have multiple species that carry out similar functional roles, (b) some species may contribute relatively little to ecosystem properties, or (c) properties may be primarily controlled by abiotic environmental conditions. 5) More species are needed to insure a stable supply of ecosystem goods and services as spatial and temporal variability increases, which typically occurs as longer time periods and larger areas are considered. We have high confidence in the following conclusions: 1) Certain combinations of species are complementary in their patterns of resource use and can increase average rates of productivity and nutrient retention. At the same time, environmental conditions can influence the importance of complementarity in structuring communities. Identification of which and how many species act in a complementary way in complex communities is just beginning. 2) Susceptibility to invasion by exotic species is strongly influenced by species composition and, under similar environmental conditions, generally decreases with increasing species richness. However, several other factors, such as propagule pressure, disturbance regime, and resource availability also strongly influence invasion success and often override effects of species richness in comparisons across different sites or ecosystems. 3) Having a range of species that respond differently to different environmental perturbations can stabilize ecosystem process rates in response to disturbances and variation in abiotic conditions. Using practices that maintain a diversity of organisms of different functional effect and functional response types will help preserve a range of management options. Uncertainties remain and further research is necessary in the following areas: 1) Further resolution of the relationships among taxonomic diversity, functional diversity, and community structure is important for identifying mechanisms of biodiversity effects. 2) Multiple trophic levels are common to ecosystems but have been understudied in biodiversity/ecosystem functioning research. The response of ecosystem properties to varying composition and diversity of consumer organisms is much more complex than responses seen in experiments that vary only the diversity of primary producers. 3) Theoretical work on stability has outpaced experimental work, especially field research. We need long-term experiments to be able to assess temporal stability, as well as experimental perturbations to assess response to and recovery from a variety of disturbances. Design and analysis of such experiments must account for several factors that covary with species diversity. 4) Because biodiversity both responds to and influences ecosystem properties, understanding the feedbacks involved is necessary to integrate results from experimental communities with patterns seen at broader scales. Likely patterns of extinction and invasion need to be linked to different drivers of global change, the forces that structure communities, and controls on ecosystem properties for the development of effective management and conservation strategies. 5) This paper focuses primarily on terrestrial systems, with some coverage of freshwater systems, because that is where most empirical and theoretical study has focused. While the fundamental principles described here should apply to marine systems, further study of that realm is necessary. Despite some uncertainties about the mechanisms and circumstances under which diversity influences ecosystem properties, incorporating diversity effects into policy and management is essential, especially in making decisions involving large temporal and spatial scales. Sacrificing those aspects of ecosystems that are difficult or impossible to reconstruct, such as diversity, simply because we are not yet certain about the extent and mechanisms by which they affect ecosystem properties, will restrict future management options even further. It is incumbent upon ecologists to communicate this need, and the values that can derive from such a perspective, to those charged with economic and policy decision-making.
10.2307/1942531|Changes in land use over the past two centuries have caused a significant release of CO"2 to the atmosphere from the terrestrial biota and soils. An analysis of this release is based on amounts of organic carbon within an ecosystem following changes such as harvest of forests; it is also based on rates of changes, such as conversion of forest to agriculture, deduced from agricultural and forestry statistics. A model is used to calculate the net amount of carbon stored or released each year by the biota and soils of 69 regional ecosystems. Some of the changes, such as afforestation, the growth of harvested forests, and buildup of soil organic matter, result in a storage of carbon; others, such as harvest of forests and increase in pasture and agricultural areas, result in a loss of carbon to the atmosphere. According to this analysis, there has been a net release of carbon from terrestrial ecosystems worldwide since at least 1860. Until @?1960, the annual release was greater than release of carbon from fossil fuels. The total net release of carbon from terrestrial ecosystems since 1860 is estimated to have been 180 x 10^1^5 g (a range of estimates is 135-228 x 10^1^5 g). The estimated net release of carbon in 1980 was 1.8-4.7 x 10^1^5 g; for the 22 yr since 1958 the release of C was 38-76 x 10^1^5 g. The ranges reflect the differences among various estimates of forest biomass, soil carbon, and agricultural clearing. Improvements in the data on the clearing of tropical forests alone would reduce the range of estimates for 1980 by almost 60%. Estimates of the other major terms in the global carbon budget, the atmospheric increase in CO"2, the fossil fuel release of CO"2, and the oceanic uptake of CO"2, are all subject to uncertainties. The combined errors in these estimates are large enough that the global carbon budget appears balanced if the low estimate for the biotic release of carbon given above is used (1.8 x 10^1^5 g released in 1980) with the higher estimates of oceanic uptake. If higher estimates for biotic release are used, then the carbon budget does not balance, and the estimates of oceanic uptake or of other factors require revision.
20787443|Biodiversity studies aim to explain spatiotemporal patterns of species distributions. We propose a new methodology in which trait diversity is measured by the quadratic entropy index, with distances among species calculated from differences among trait states. We show how this index of trait diversity can be decomposed among the nodes of a phylogenetic tree. The contribution to trait diversity of a particular node is equal to the trait diversity among the n groups of species descending from it multiplied by an abundance weight (either proportional to the number of descendant species or to their relative abundance). We developed three tests to characterize the phylogenetic pattern of trait diversity and evaluated our methodology with seven evolutionary models. The power of the tests was high and increased with the number of extant taxa and the number of traits analyzed. The Type I error analyses (erroneous rejection of true null hypotheses) suggested that our tests are neither too liberal nor too conservative. Species abundances were found to modify the phylogenetic signal in trait diversity if only a few species were abundant and if species abundances were correlated to their phylogenetic relatedness and/or their trait states. By comparing phylogenetic signals in trait diversity from the local to the metacommunity level, we explored the factors that structure butterfly trait diversity in calcareous grasslands of northern France and southern Belgium. We show that partial phylogenetic signal in traits combined with habitat filtering determined which species and lineages were able to co-occur locally. Interestingly, no phylogenetic signal was detected when measures of abundance were included in our analyses. For most species and clades, the abundance distribution among communities at the regional scale was random. Overall, studying trait diversity in a phylogenetic context allows the link between current local ecological processes and lineage-dependent historical evolutionary factors to be thoroughly investigated.
10.2307/2937232|Fish communities associated with model and natural reef patches were studied to determine the effects of heterogeneity, area, and isolation on the number of fish species in these systems. The effects of season and succession on the structure of these communities were also examined. Species turnover was estimated to determine if numbers of fish species on small reefs can be viewed as a balance between immigration and local extinction. Interspace size diversity, one facet of reef heterogeneity, was not positively correlated with the number of fish species on either model or natural reefs. In addition, interspace size diversity had no significant effects on species composition. In most of the cases examined reef height, another aspect of reef heterogeneity, was positively correlated with the number of fish species and species diversity, H', on natural reefs. Observations of selected fish species inhabiting model reefs support the hypothesis that vertical zonation is a means of resource partitioning in these fish communities. A negative correlation was found between reef isolation and number of fish species on patch reefs. This correlation was strongest during periods when fish population sizes were lowest. Season had more of an effect on the structure of fish communities on model reefs than did succession. Immigration and local extinction of fish species occurred on model reefs throughout the study. Patterns of immigration and extinction approximated the predictions of the MacArthur-Wilson equilibrium model of insular zoogeography when species turnover was highest.
20787453|Land cover and land use surrounding fragmented habitat can greatly impact species persistence by altering resource availability, edge effects, or the movement of individuals throughout a landscape. Despite the potential importance of the landscape matrix, ecologists still have limited understanding of the relative effects of different types of land cover and land uses on species patterns and processes in natural systems. Here we investigated whether Neotropical resident bird communities in limestone forest patches differed if they were embedded in three different human-dominated matrix types (agriculture, peri-urban development, and bauxite mining) relative to sites in continuous forest in central Jamaica. We found that species richness, community composition, and abundances were matrix-dependent, with agricultural landscapes supporting greater avian diversity and more intact community assemblages than either peri-urban or bauxite landscapes. Abundance of almost 70% of species differed in forest embedded in the different landscape matrix types. Traits related to resource use best predicted species responses, including diet guild, nest height, habitat association, and foraging strata. Insectivores, frugivores, canopy nesters, understory and canopy foragers, and forest-restricted species rarely observed in matrix habitats had lower abundances in forest fragments embedded in human-dominated matrix types than in continuous forest. In contrast, nectarivores, omnivores, granivores, ground and multi-strata nesters, ground foragers, and species regularly in matrix habitats were least sensitive to forest fragmentation. Results suggest that structure, composition, and land use disturbance regimes in matrix areas impact overall habitat quality in landscapes by potentially mediating resource availability inside as well as outside forest habitat. This study reinforces the importance of differentiating among land cover and land uses in fragmentation research and lends support to the hypothesis that resource availability may be a primary factor driving Neotropical bird responses to fragmentation.
10.2307/2963469|We present three models representing the trophic and behavioral dynamics of a simple food chain (primary producers, grazers, and predators) at temporal scales shorter than the scale of consumer reproduction, and at the spatial scales typically employed in field experiments. These models incorporate flexible behavioral responses of organisms to their predators and resources in spatially heterogeneous environments that are open to immigration and emigration. The basic models include passive immigration at all trophic levels, producer growth rates and losses to grazer consumption, grazer emigration rate as a behavioral response to producer and predator densities, grazer losses to predator consumption, and predator emigration as a function of grazer density. We model this system as: (1) a set of ordinary differential equations ("well-mixed model"); (2) a set of partial differential equations describing a population of discrete grazers foraging on discrete patches of primary producers ("discrete-grazer model"); and (3) a set of simulation rules describing the movement and foraging of individual grazers and the growth of primary producers on discrete patches in explicit space ("individual-based model"). The ordinary differential-equation models produced similar results to individual-based models with well-mixed producers, and the discrete-grazer and individual-based models produced similar results when grazers possessed a long-term memory of patch reward rates. The well-mixed and discrete-grazer models thus represent specific, limiting cases of the general individual-based model. Multiple equilibria and sustained oscillations are possible but are less likely in the discrete-grazer and individual-based models than in the well-mixed model, because localized foraging of discrete grazers leads to the rapid development of spatial heterogeneity in producer biomass and, hence, to a decrease in overall primary production. All models predict that stable equilibrium densities of all trophic levels increase with enrichment, provided grazers increase their emigration rates as predator density increases. If increasing predator density leads to decreasing grazer-emigration rates, predator and grazer densities increase, but producer biomass may increase or decrease with enrichment. These results contrast with predictions from models that assume ideal free distributions of grazers and/or predators with respect to their resources. Our models also predict that densities at all trophic levels will increase with increasing producer immigration, and that producer density will decline with increasing grazer immigration and increase with increasing predator immigration. Our qualitative findings on enrichment are used to interpret an experiment dealing with the short-term dynamics of a stream community open to grazers and predators.
27646116|Geographic variation of species richness is strongly correlated with environmental gradients. However, random arrangement of species distributions within a bounded domain can also theoretically produce richness gradients without underlying environmental gradients. This mid-domain effect (MDE) could serve as the null hypothesis against which to test effects of environmental variables, or as a component of a multivariate explanation of species-richness patterns. Recent reviews have concluded that there is a substantial MDE signature in observed geographical patterns of richness, based on correlations between observed patterns of richness and the predictions of mid-domain models. However, the mid-domain hypothesis makes additional powerful predictions about how richness should vary through space, and about the slope of the relationship between predicted and observed richness. Very few studies have tested these more powerful MDE predictions. Here, we reexamine the published mid-domain literature for agreement between observed patterns of richness and MDE predictions. We find that 50 of 53 published studies of MDEs showed significant deviations from the predictions of mid-domain models. When observed richness is correlated with MDE predictions, there are nearly always strongly collinear environmental gradients (e.g., in the Americas, climatic favorability and MDE-predicted richness are both maximal in the middle). Interpolation in sparsely sampled data can also give rise to spurious, apparently strong, mid-domain effects (e.g., the classic study of the Madagascan rain forest). We conclude that observed broad-scale patterns of species richness are not consistent with the mid-domain hypothesis.
10.2307/2937322|To investigate how inputs of water and nutrients influence the structural and functional characteristics of cypress wetlands, primary productivity, respiration, transpiration, tree growth, biomass, basal area, stem density, standing stocks of phosphorus, and litterfall were measured in several kinds of Florida cypress ecosystems subjected to varying inflows of water and nutrients. A scrub cypress forest, natural and sewage-enriched cypress domes, and a cypress floodplain forest were studied. Floodwaters in these ecosystems ranged from stagnant and phosphorus poor (0.01-0.08 mg P/L) to flowing and phosphorus rich (0.66-5.86 mg P/L). Inputs of total phosphorus transported by water to these forests varied from 0.11 g P@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 in the scrub cypress forest to 1625 g P@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 in the floodplain forest. Phosphorus content of aboveground biomass (ranging from 0.25 to 4.78 g P/m^2) appeared to be positively related to phosphorus inputs. Biomass and other structural characteristics of the study sites appeared to be related to stand history rather than to phosphorus inputs. For example, there was little difference in aboveground biomass between natural cypress domes (20.6-26.6 kg/m^2), a sewage-enriched dome (21.7 kg/m^2), and a floodplain forest (28.4 kg/m^2). Aboveground biomass for the scrub cypress forest was low (3.6 kg/m^2). Net daytime photosynthesis (2.1-13.7 g C@?m^-^2 ground surface@?d^-^1), plant respiration (0.9-10.9 g C@?m^-^2) ground surface@?d^-^1) and an estimate of gross primary productivity increased with increasing inputs of total phosphorus. Aboveground biomass production (sum of wood production, ranging from 44 to 1080 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1, and litterfall, ranging from 224 to 941 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1) increased with increasing total phosphorus inputs in the low range, but biomass production leveled in the high input range. Total water loss from cypress forests increased with increasing P inputs. Mean daily transpiration rates from the scrub cypress forest (1.0 mm) and cypress domes (3.1-3.8 mm) were lower while those from the floodplain forest (5.6 mm) were similar to evaporation rates from open water bodies. Ratios of transpiration to net daytime photosynthesis were also low (156-221 g H"2O/g organic matter), showing that cypress is efficient in its water use. In cypress domes and scrub cypress forest, where water may be limiting, trees appear to adjust t potential water stress through leaf morphology adaptations and minimum canopy development (leaf area index, LAI = 0.53-3.4 m^2/m^2). When water is not potentially limiting, as in the floodplain forest, adaptations to conserve water were lacking (e.g., LAI = 8.5 m^2/m^2). A dome with added sewage effluent had higher leaf biomass, leaf area index, and chlorophyll @? content, and more phosphorus stored in leaves than untreated domes. Net primary productivity, litter production, and wood production increased approximately twofold over pre-effluent rates or untreated cypress domes.
27646074|Resistance to xylem cavitation depends on the size of xylem pit membrane pores and the strength of vessels to resist collapse or, in the case of freezing-induced cavitation, conduit diameter. Altering these traits may impact plant biomechanics or water transport efficiency. The evergreen sclerophyllous shrub species, collectively referred to as chaparral, which dominate much of the mediterranean-type climate region of southern California, have been shown to display high cavitation resistance (pressure potential at 50% loss of hydraulic conductivity; P50). We examined xylem functional and structural traits associated with more negative P50 in stems of 26 chaparral species. We correlated raw-trait values, without phylogenetic consideration, to examine current relationships between P50 and these xylem traits. Additionally, correlations were examined using phylogenetic independent contrasts (PICs) to determine whether evolutionary changes in these xylem traits correlate with changes in P50. Co-occurring chaparral species widely differ in their P50 (-0.9 to -11.0 MPa). Species experiencing the most negative seasonal pressure potential (Pmin) had the highest resistance to xylem cavitation (lowest P50). Decreased P50 was associated with increased xylem density, stem mechanical strength (modulus of rupture), and transverse fiber wall area when both raw values and PICs were analyzed. These results support a functional and evolutionary relationship among these xylem traits and cavitation resistance. Chaparral species that do not sprout following fire but instead recruit post-fire from seed had the greatest resistance to cavitation, presumably because they rely on post-fire survival of seedlings during the summer dry period to persist in the landscape. Raw values of hydraulic vessel diameter (dh), maximum vessel length, and xylem-specific hydraulic conductivity (Ks) were correlated to P50; however, dh, maximum vessel length, and Ks were not correlated to P50 when analyzed using PICs, suggesting that these traits have not undergone correlated evolutionary change. We found no difference in xylem traits between species occurring at freezing vs. nonfreezing sites, although freezing has been shown to affect the survival and distributions of some chaparral species. Stem mechanical strength, fiber properties, and post-fire regeneration type appear to be key factors in the evolution of cavitation resistance among chaparral shrubs.
10.2307/1942403|The dwarfed conifer forests occurring on the coastal terraces of Mendocino County, California, are oligotrophic communities containing edaphic endemics as dominants. Species distributions and community characteristics are traced along a gradient in podzolization of the soils from these pygmy conifer stands on highly weathered terrace spodosols, to redwood stands on weakly developed slope spodsols. Vegetation stature, canopy closure, species richness, litter biomass and pH generally decrease along the gradient as podzolization and nutrient impoverishment increase, whereas soil organic matter and available water capacity tend to be highest at the gradient extremes. Analyses of pygmy forest soils show low levels of macro- and micro-nutrients, and high levels of exchangeable aluminum. When ordinations of stands based on vegetational data are compared with rankings based on environmental data, changes in pH of the soil A horizon are found to correlate most highly with vegetation changes. Nutrient loss and acidification, initiated by varying rates of soil weathering in the pygmy forest region, may be aggravated, in the case of pygmy forest soils, by a series of feedback effects, including solubilization of possibly toxic amounts of aluminum by low pH, which may contribute to the observed plant stunting and shrinking pools of nutrients in the biomass. A ranking of stands along a soil nutrient gradient, based on field observations and presence data for species, correlated successively less strongly with ordinations computed by similarity-projection, Bray-Curtis method, importance-projection, principal components analysis, and factor analysis. Although these ordinations were expected to produce distortions in the interstand relations due to the modal and even polymodal nature of species response curves and to the presence of species not spanning the range of the data set, additional distortions due to variability in sample data were also highlighted.
10.2307/1942600|We measured the allocation of time and energy in a population of adult Yellow-eyed Juncos (Junco phaeonotus) and their young (nestlings, fledglings, independent juveniles) throughout the breeding season using concurrent time-activity budgets and doubly labeled water. We constructed energy budgets by extrapolating laboratory measurements of metabolic heat production to field conditions using a linear heat-transfer model and the operative temperature and wind speed experienced by the free-living bird. From our data we calculated daily energy expenditure (H"D), the proportion of H"D allocated to physical activity vs. maintenance metabolism (basal + thermostatic costs), and foraging efficiency. We examined diet selectivity among parents and their young, and we calculated prey capture rates based on the measured energy content of insect prey. We found that adult juncos feeding young are neither food limited nor working maximally. Adults fulfilled their own energy demands, and those of their four dependent young, while foraging for 75% or less of the daylight hours. In contrast, recently independent young, 4-7 wk after fledging, must forage for >90% of the daylight hours to meet their own energy demands. Juncos younger than this cannot attain energy balance in a 15-h day without supplemental feeding by their parents, even if they forage continuously. The H"D of adult juncos (mean mass 19.5 g) remained fairly constant throughout the breeding season, averaging 73.8 kJ/d (n=51), which is 2.1 times their measured nighttime basal metabolic rate. In contrast, H"D of fledging juncos increased steadily with age, from 59.7 kJ/d during the 1 st wk out of the nest to 73.8 kJ/d during week 3. This increase resulted partly from an increase in the proportion of time spent foraging. Once their parents quit supplying them with food, the young juncos' H"D increased dramatically, peaking at 100 kJ/d in 10-12 wk-old juveniles. The increase in H"D of independent young resulted initially from a dramatic increase in time spent foraging, which gradually declined only to be supplanted by an increase in aggressive interactions, especially flights within the juvenile flocks, and a marked increase in energy demand associated with the postjuvenile molt. For adult and young juncos, thermostatic costs represented respectively 20 and 23% of total daily energy expenditure, an amount of energy approaching that devoted to all physical activities. Thermostatic costs would have been even greater than this except that juncos are much better insulated than typical 19.5-g passerine birds (their coefficient of heat transfer is only 76% of that predicted from their mass). For these small birds, adaptations that affect body insulation can have more effect on daily energy budgets than changes in the time allocated to various physical activities. Our data reveal that energy constraints are a major selective force in Yellow-eyed Juncos, operating not through food limitation among adults but rather through the inefficient foraging of young juncos. The critical stage when selection operates most strongly on the efficient use of time and energy occurs during the first 3 mo of a junco's life. The lack of proficient foraging by young juncos explains observed patterns of parental time and energy expenditure and breeding season phenology.
41739375|We present 20 years of weekly stream water chemistry, hydrology, and climate data for the Walker Branch watershed in eastern Tennessee, USA. Since 1989, the watershed has experienced a ~1.0C increase in mean annual temperature, a ~20% decline in precipitation, and a ~30% increase in forest evapotranspiration rates. As a result, stream runoff has declined by ~34%. We evaluate long-term trends in stream water concentrations and fluxes for nine solutes and use wet deposition data to calculate approximate watershed input-output budgets. Dissolved constituents were classified as geochemical solutes (Ca, Mg, and SO) or nutrients (NH, NO, soluble reactive phosphorus [SRP], total soluble nitrogen [TSN], total soluble phosphorus [TSP], and dissolved organic carbon [DOC]). Geochemical solutes are predominantly controlled by discharge, and the long-term changes in catchment hydrology have led to significant trends in the concentrations and fluxes of these solutes. Further, the trends in geochemical solute concentrations indicate shifting soil flowpath contributions to streamflow generation through time, with deep ground water having a greater proportional contribution in recent years. Despite dramatic changes in watershed runoff, there were no trends in inorganic nutrient concentrations (NH, NO, and SRP). While most nutrients entering the watershed are retained, stream fluxes of nutrient solutes have declined significantly as a result of decreasing runoff. Nutrient concentrations in the stream exhibit large seasonality controlled by in-stream biological uptake. Stream benthic communities are sensitive to hydrologie disturbance, and changes in the frequency or intensity of storm events through time can affect nutrient fluxes. Stream NO concentrations are also sensitive to drought, with concentrations decreasing (increasing) if conditions during the three years prior to the time of sampling were drier (wetter) than the long-term mean. Future changes in the incidence of storm events, as well as the number and duration of droughts, have the potential to significantly alter watershed nutrient losses. Our analysis indicates that changing climates can differentially affect watershed element cycles either through changes in biogeochemical process rates or through changes in catchment hydrology. Furthermore, climate change can include both long-term trending in mean climate variables, as well as changes in the frequency and intensity of storms and droughts, with each of these types of change having distinct effects on the biological and geochemical processes governing different solutes.
10.2307/3100083|Both local and regional habitat characteristics influence species richness and community structure. The scale at which communities are studied, however, affects the detection of relationships between habitat characteristics and patterns of habitat selection, species diversity, and species composition, and may obscure observation of differences in how species perceive the scale of environmental variation. To determine how environmental variation at different scales is related to species occurrence and richness, I analyze mist net sampling data on several guilds of forest understory birds. Bird capture, vegetation, and physical environment data come from 23 0.5-ha study sites in primary and secondary forest in Amazonian Ecuador. The percentages of primary forest within concentric circles around each site form forest imbeddedness measures (FIMs), which are evaluated using satellite imagery. Variation in FIM size represents different measurement scales for determining forest cover. Primary forest cover is also analyzed in successively larger tori surrounding sites and is used, after variable reduction with Principal Components Analysis, to summarize variation in forest cover around sites. Linear regression, surface trend analysis, and ordination help to quantify how variation in guild composition and species richness is explained by forest cover, vegetation structure, and physical environment. Species composition is related to variation in primary forest cover, primarily within 200-600 m of study sites. Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) indicates that nectarivores, shrub-layer frugivores, and ant-following birds are captured in areas with relatively low primary forest cover. In contrast, shrub-layer insectivores, shrub-layer omnivores, and birds probing dead foliage for large insects tend to be captured in areas of relatively high primary forest cover. The species richness of insect gleaners, ant followers, and omnivores is statistically related to the percent cover of primary forest within hundreds of meters from the study sites. This suggests that some mechanisms that influence guild composition act over substantial distances. Nonetheless, the small radii of FIMs related to the species richness of dead-leaf probers suggests that local conditions and variation in forest cover over short (<200 m) distances directly or indirectly influence species richness of some primary forest birds. The significant relationship between temperature variation among capture sites and species richness of ant-following birds suggests that these species choose among habitats in a temperature range at which physiological constraints operate, either directly on the birds themselves or on the ants they follow. Species richness within the nectarivores, in contrast, shows no relationship with large-scale variation in primary forest cover. The radius of the FIM most closely associated with species richness differs among guilds, which suggests variation in the scale at which forest cover is associated with guild structure, as well as variation in the strength of the association. Differences in the scale of relationships between environment and species richness among guilds suggest that the mechanisms that influence both species' habitat use and community structure differ among guilds. A single mechanism, operating at a single scale, is inconsistent with these patterns. Independent data from eight additional sites suggest that prediction of species richness from surrounding forest structure could be useful for managing human impacts on tropical avian communities.
10.2307/1942411|The periodicity, associations, species diversity, and composition of the sublittoral, attached algal vegetation were studied at four ecologically distinct stations in southern Cape Cod and adjacent islands. In situ collections and observations of 142 species of attached sublittoral algae (Chlorophyta, Phaeophyta, and Rhodophyta) were made with the aid of diving equipment. These were categorized into four groups with respect to seasonal periodicity (seasonal annuals, aseasonal annuals, pseudoperennials, and perennials) based on thallus longevity, plant form during their adverse season, and the period in which each species population was present in the community. Using these criteria we recognize the influence of environmental change on algal development, and the plants' temporal influence on the community. Based on qualitative and quantitative sampling, 10 sublittoral alga associations have been recognized from 2 bottom substrata types. The distribution of sublittoral attached algae at our four stations was more complex than can be accounted for by the three sublittoral algal associations as described in studies of other geographic areas. This may be due to the different levels at which associations have been recognized, to the type and degree of substratum stability, and to whether consideration is given to algal seasonal periodicity. The concept of a universal tripartite zonation of sublittoral algae is unacceptable when these factors are considered in vegetational analyses. An in-habitat, seasonal comparison of species diversity and composition was based on adjacent quantitative collections from a uniform shell bottom at 6 and 12 m. Species diversity remained seasonally stable at these depths; species composition, however, changed dramatically throughout the year. At 6 m, brown algae dominated in winter and were replaced by red algae during summer. At 12 m, the seasonal floristic changes were less pronounced, and red algae dominated year-round. A between-habitat comparison of species numbers and composition was based on year-round qualitative collections and observations made at four regularly visited stations (5-22 m depth). Species numbers decreased with increased station depth from 5 to 22 m except for one heavily silted station. The seasonal change of floristic composition was most striking at West Chop (5-8 m) where short- and long-lived species were about equally represented. Seasonal differences in species composition between summer and winter were striking at a 5-8 m station but were less pronounced with increased station depth where long-lived species made up an increasingly larger percentage of the total vegetation. Floristic composition also differed among stations. About equal numbers of red and brown species occurred at 5-8 m in contrast to the occurrence of about 4 times more red than brown algal species at 22 m. The crust vegetation also made up an increasingly larger percentage of the deep vegetation when compared with the vegetation of shallower areas sampled. Species diversity at 20-22 m was much higher in southern Cape Cod than reported for similar depths to the north (Cape Ann, Massachusetts, New Hampshire; Halifax, Nova Scotia); this may be due in part to the intensive collecting of crustose forms during the present study.
10.2307/2657160|The lower intertidal zone (0.0 to +1.0 m mean low water [MLW]) of rocky shores in New England is a space-limited community occupied by two similar rhodophyte seaweeds, Chondrus crispus and Mastocarpus stellatus, that overlap broadly in their use of three essential resources: space, light, and nutrients. C. crispus coexists primarily with the prostrate-crust generation of M. stellatus lower on the shore (less than +0.35 m MLW) and with the alternate upright-frond generation higher on the shore (greater than +0.35 m MLW). Our objectives were to determine (1) whether these two species compete and (2) if so, what process(es) enable their coexistence. Upright fronds of M. stellatus transplanted to the lowest intertidal zone (less than +0.25 m MLW) where C. crispus predominates grew faster and showed higher survivorship after 2 yr than those transplanted to areas where M. stellatus predominates. However, the failure of upright fronds of M. stellatus to consistently recruit limits their abundance in the lowest zone and reduces the frequency of preemptive competition by C. crispus. Moreover, when M. stellatus was grown in combination with fronds of C. crispus in this zone, the dominant competitor C. crispus suppressed the growth and reproductive output of M. stellatus fronds. Neither species was significantly consumed by littorinid gastropods in field and laboratory experiments, indicating that herbivory does not control patterns of coexistence. In the low zone, coexistence between C. crispus and M. stellatus appears to be mediated primarily by disturbances from winter storm waves that remove large, fast-growing C. crispus fronds and limit its abundance. Coexistence of C. crispus fronds and M. stellatus crusts in this zone may also result from their different patterns of resource use. In contrast to the low zone, the slow growth of C. crispus in the mid-low zone (approximately +0.5 m MLW) prevented the overgrowth of fronds of M. stellatus and, hence, prevented competition from occurring during the growing season (spring, summer, fall). Our evidence suggests that disturbances from herbivores or waves cause little mortality of fronds in this zone or higher on the shore. Rather, in response to physiological stress, C. crispus sloughs off metabolically unproductive apical tissue prior to resuming growth in the spring, minimizing the chance of overgrowth by these fronds in the coming growing season. Together, these results suggest that the low production, rather than high mortality, of C. crispus fronds enables these competitors to coexist higher on the shore. On space-limited temperate rocky shores similar species often coexist because mortality from disturbances falls most heavily on the dominant competitor. Our results imply that coexistence of these species can be maintained by factors affecting the productivity, rather than the mortality, of the dominant competitor. But both sorts of processes may be important, as different processes may control coexistence of the same competitors in different environments.
10.2307/1942213|Clutch size and related aspects of breeding biology were investigated in the Lapland Longspur (Calcarius lapponicus) and Snow Bunting (Plectrophenax nivalis) in the North American Arctic, and in allied temperate and subarctic species. Evidence was sought to test Lack's hypothesis that the increase in clutch size with latitude is related to the length of daylight available for the adults to collect food for their young, and that clutch size is ultimately determined by the average maximum number of young for which the parents can find food. The arctic species were studied mainly at 76@? N on Devon Island; some additional data were collected elsewhere. Increase in clutch size with latitude was correlated with a decrease in the adults' night rest period from 7 hr at 50@? N to 3-5 hr in the Arctic. In the Lapland Longspur in Canada clutches were larger at high latitudes and at localities with early breeding seasons. Clutch size and latitude were not significantly related for those localities where activity of adults attending nestlings is not restricted by daylength. Differences in clutch size were not attributable to geographic or interspecific variation in hatching asynchrony, hatching success, or growth of the young. Hatching of Lapland Longspur and Snow Bunting clutches on Devon Island corresponded closely with the emergence of the adult insects which predominate in the nestlings' diet, but other factors may also influence the timing of the breeding season. The decline in clutch size in these single-brooded species as the season progressed apparently was not related to changes in the environmental food supply. In the multiple-brooded Chestnut-collared Longspur (C. ornatus) in Saskatchewan clutch sizes changes little during the season. Annual differences in clutch size were demonstrated in the Snow Bunting, but their significance is unknown. Although Snow Bunting clutches of seven are rare on Devon Island, more young were fledged from experimental broods of seven than from smaller broods, but the young averaged lighter in weight. Adults feeding large broods made more visits to the nest each day and were lighter in weight than those with small broods, but the visiting rate per young was less in large broods. Much of the variation in clutch size, including the increase with latitude, is related to environmental factors influencing the food-gathering potential of the adults. But this does not mean that clutch size has evolved to a limit set by the environmental food supply, because food-gathering behavior and related morphology have also evolved by natural selection. Clutch size must be determined by the effects that changes in it and other aspects of reproductive strategy have on the probability of survival of both the adults and their offspring.
10.2307/1942173|Strongylocentrotus drobachiensis and S. franciscanus exhibited strong algal preferences in laboratory studies. A generalized ranking of algae from most to least preferred for both sea urchins includes: Nereocystis luetkeana, Costaria costata, Laminaria saccharina, L. groenlandica, Monostroma fuscum, Opuntiella californica, Agarum fimbriatum and A. cribrosum. Similar but weaker preferences were exhibited by S. purpuratus. Preference experiments showed that substance(s) readily sloughed from the fronds of Nereocystis attract urchins whereas substances from A. fimbriatum repel or are not detected by urchins. In the field urchins in contact with or on the fronds of Agarum spp. revealed a low proportion of feeding individuals except during winter. Food preferences were inversely correlated with the caloric content of algae. Although preferences generally were weakly correlated with caloric intake, this relationship is an artifact of the high feeding rates on preferred algae. Absorption efficiencies for the three urchins were strongly correlated with food preference rankings. Mean values for the three species ranged from 84% to 91% on Nereocystis, 77%-83% on Costaria, 64%-78% on L. saccharina, 62%-71% on Callophyllis flabellulata, 28%-56% on J. fuscum, 40%-56% on A. cribrosum and 36%-52% on A. fimbriatum. Growth in diameter and weight of S. drobachiensis fed specific algae for 15 mo correlated positively with algal preference rankings: urchins raised on Nereocystis or L. saccharina grew faster and produced significantly larger tests than animals raised on either species of Agarum. At the end of 15 mo, 50% of the animals were placed on a reciprocal diet from that on which they were originally grown, i.e., from preferred to nonpreferred algae or vice versa. The other half were retained on the original diet as controls. At the end of 5 mo urchins maintained on or transferred to preferred algae produced the largest tests (diameter and weight). Growth rates, however, were highest with urchins transferred from A. cribrosum to Nereocystis. Conversely, poorest growth occurred with the reciprocal transfer. Similarly, reproductive values, gonad indexes, and gonad weights were highest for urchins maintained on a continuous (20-mo) diet of Nereocystis. The second highest reproductivv values occurred with animals transferred from A. cribrosum to Nereocystis. Lowest values occurred with urchins maintained continuously on a diet of Agarum. Field observations on feeding at seven sites showed that S. drobachiensis and S. franciscanus fed primarily on Nereocystis (27%-40%) and ulvoids (Monostroma-Ulva spp.) (24%-28%). Other species accounted for less than 10%; brown and green algae comprised 64% and 26%, respectively, of the diet of these urchins. Qualitative and quantitative (density, frequency percentage, relative biomass) measures of algal availability showed that ulvoids and Alaria dominated shallow (0-4 m) subtidal depths. With few exceptions A. cribrosum dominated deeper depths (4-12 m) at most sites and the areas in which most feeding observations were made. Nereocystis dominated only one site (in terms of relative biomass). Unlike A. cribrosum, ulvoids, Laminaria spp., and other understory species, Nereocystis was not readily available to urchins on the bottom because of its large surface canopy, narrow stipe, and small holdfast. It became more available, however, when dislodged by grazers and storms. Feeding by sea urchins in nature is a compromise between urchin preferences and algal availability. The disproportionately high feeding percentages on Nereocystis relative to its physiognomy and low abundance is due to selective feeding. Similarly, feeding on L. saccharina and possibly filamentous diatoms is interpreted as selective. The high feeding percentage on ulvoids is a reflection of availability. With algae of intermediate preference in laboratory experiments, feeding in nature is interpreted as the result primarily of availability, e.g., Alaria, L. groenlandica and L. complanata. Costaria, although highly preferred in experiments, was taken more in proportion to availability in the field. With the dominant and most available prey (Agarum spp.) and with Opuntiella there was an active avoidance by urchins suggesting that these algae have evolved chemical or less likely physical defensive systems that reduce browsing by sea urchins. Field measurements of sizes (diameter and weight) and reproductive capacities (gonad weights) of S. drobachiensis within food-limited, relatively food-limited, and food-unlimited environments revealed significant differences between populations in all but test diameter. These observations are in good accord with laboratory experiments. Urchins in the food-unlimited and relatively food-limited sites had available ample amounts of preferred and nonpreferred prey, respectively, e.g., Nereocystis, Costaria, and Laminaria spp. vs. Agarum. The growth and reproductive capacities of these populations parallel laboratory experiments. This algal-herbivore interaction has led to important adaptations and strategies by both the sea urchins and algae. Important or dominant subtidal algae in the San Juan Islands have evolved an opportunistic strategy (r-selection), especially those species highly preferred by urchins, or a perennial strategy (K-selection), especially those species not preferred by urchins. Sea urchins, on the other hand, have evolved a keen sense of prey detection, one that increases their intake and absorption of prey, their growth, and their reproductive potential. These measures can be considered 'components of fitness' and the ensuing selective feeding behavior as an optimization strategy. The question of what is being optimized by urchins was examined using Emlen's model. The food value of algae (based on urchin growth and reproduction) was important to the net gain of urchins but differences in absorption efficiencies and feeding rates had an even greater effect on net gain in Emlen's model. Urchins in this study selected algae which were ingested rapidly, absorbed efficiently, and provided the greatest nutritional value. These urchins are energy maximizers, and by feeding selectively are maximizing fitness. Thus, urchins with well-developed preferences will on the whole, grow faster, reproduce earlier, and contribute more offspring to future generations than individuals with indiscriminate feeding behavior.
27646028|The shape of the relationship between population growth rate and population density has important consequences for population dynamics. Past reviews have led to suggestions that, for large mammalian herbivores, the density-dependent response is curvilinear or abrupt in its onset above some threshold density, and that different demographic segments differ in their sensitivity to rising density. I examined the form of density dependence in stage-specific mortality rates for three African ungulate populations for which data were available over a sufficiently wide range in abundance: kudu in Kruger National Park, South Africa, and wildebeest in both Kruger and Serengeti National Park, Tanzania. Calf losses remained fairly high toward low-density levels, indicating that juvenile mortality was sensitive to various influences, some acting independently of density. The maximum population growth rate at low density was truncated by density-independent factors restricting recruitment success, while the slope of the initial plateau region of the density-dependent response depended on how steeply juvenile mortality rose and fertility in the youngest reproductive stage fell with increasing density. Adult mortality rose only above some threshold density, especially among older females, and was largely responsible for setting the zero growth level. The density-dependent response in adult mortality was effectively linear, so that the trend in population growth rate toward the zero growth level was also linear. Differences in the stage of onset and steepness of the density dependence in adult female mortality appeared to be affected by differences in the predatorprey relationship for these three ungulate populations. Overall nonlinearity in the population growth response was an emergent outcome of the different stages at which mortality and recruitment losses among different population segments became affected. Models depicting curvilinear density dependence exaggerate the tendency toward overcompensation around the zero growth level and resultant propensity toward oscillatory dynamics. Reliable projections of population dynamics require models that are faithful to the intrinsic demographic responses determining the overall population growth rate.
4539106|Terrestrial plants respond in complex ways to the interaction of stress and herbivory, but much less is known about responses of seaweeds. We studied the common intertidal rockweed Fucus gardneri to determine how stress and herbivory interact to influence its survival, growth, reproduction, and the concentration of phlorotannins, which can deter herbivory and constitute substantial mass. We manipulated stress and herbivory both in the field and in outdoor mesocosms over 2-4 months during spring and summer. In the field, disruptive stress was reduced in the upper range of the seaweed's distribution with awnings made of screen. Temperatures and relative humidities were more extreme in the no-awnings locations. This treatment was crossed with a limpet-removal treatment. In mesocosms, the tidal period was controlled so that half of the experimental thalli were exposed to air daily for 3-4 hours longer (greater limitation stress) than the other half, and three levels of isopod grazing were maintained. Grazing intensity was effectively reduced in the field and increased in the mesocosms. Net rates of photosynthesis were used as independent measures of seaweed stress. Fucus gardneri in the locations without awnings exhibited significant reductions in net photosynthesis, survival, and final size compared to thalli under awnings. The mesocosm environment was more benign; all individuals survived longer and grew larger. However, results from both experiments were generally consistent. Stress resulted in slightly lower growth and substantially reduced phlorotannin mass. Severe stress had a negative effect on reproductive output in the field experiment, but mild stress had a small positive effect in the mesocosms. Herbivory resulted in reduced thallus mass, slightly reduced growth, and reduced reproduction, but it had no effect on phlorotannin levels in either experiment. Herbivory and stress thus influenced different performance indicators in Fucus. Stress had more dramatic effects on phlorotannins than it did on growth, whereas herbivory more strongly influenced growth and reproduction. Few interactive effects were found, unlike in many terrestrial studies. If stress and herbivory act largely independently, as they appear to do here and in the limited number of other seaweed studies, predicting the effects of changes in the intertidal physical environment and in herbivory might be simpler than anticipated. The physiological basis for the observed responses to stress and herbivory is suspected to involve trade-offs in resource allocation among these key life-history parameters.
10.2307/1942443|Mixed-species flocks of birds composed of chickadees, titmice, woodpeckers, nuthatches, creepers, kinglets, and wood warblers were studied in several habitats in Louisiana, Maryland, and Maine. Chickadees and titmice usually led these groups. Both the size of the flock and density of birds varied with the habitat. An inverse relation existed between the density of birds in a habitat and the percentage of them that were species participating in flocks. Individuals of species regularly participating in flocks sometimes were found away from them. The tendency for such an individual to be in a flock was inversely related to the density of birds in the habitat. Hostile interactions were infrequent in flocks, being mostly of an intraspecific nature. A dominance hierarchy existed between the different species in flocks. A definite distance was maintained between individuals. As flock size increased the area occupied per individual decreased. The larger flocks were, the faster they usually moved. Each species favored certain parts of the habitat when foraging, though overlap existed between almost all pairs of species. The commonest species (Chickadees, titmice, kinglets) overlapped heavily. Subordinate species foraging in the presence of dominant species changed their areas of foraging, but little or no tendency was seen for subordinates to affect the foraging of dominants. Subordinates might either spread out over alternative foraging areas or concentrate their activities more strongly in a few areas. Most flock members responded markedly to predators; however, few predators were observed during the study. Many of the responses seen were delivered to inappropriate stimuli. Several factors suggest a direct relationship between population density and food supply. Flocking appears to be an effective adaptation to difficult conditions. If a species adjusts its foraging in the presence of another species, possibilities of hostilities should be minimized. Subordinate species usually moved to parts of the habitat to which they were well-adapted. If dominant species are absent, however, opportunism by the subordinate may allow it to take advantage of otherwise unused resources. Dominants may obtain a more predictable portion of the food supply by participating in flocks that if solitary. Constant movement may insure that birds obtain the most readily available food. Large flocks may move rapidly because their individuals are more crowded than those in small flocks. With this restriction either increased speed or more concentrated foraging would be predicted. The low frequency of predators suggests that evasive responses of flock members may have been more advantageous than at present.
10.2307/1943004|Survival or extinction of an endangered species is inherently stochastic. We develop statistical methods for estimating quantities related to growth rates and extinction probabilities from time series data on the abundance of a single population. The statistical methods are based on a stochastic model of exponential growth arising from the biological theory of age- or stage-structured populations. The model incorporates the so-called environmental type of stochastic fluctuations and yields a lognormal probability distribution of population abundance. Calculation of maximum likelihood estimates of the two unknown parameters in this model reduces to performing a simple linear regression. We describe techniques for rigorously testing and evaluating whether the model fits a given data set. Various growth- and extinction-related quantities are functions of the two parameters, including the continuous rate of increase, the finite rate of increase, the geometric finite rate of increase, the probability of reaching a lower threshold population size, the mean, median, and most likely time of attaining the threshold, and the projected population size. Maximum likelihood estimates and minimum variance unbiased estimates of these quantities are described in detail. We provide example analyses of data on the Whooping Crane (Grus americana), grizzly bear (Ursus Arabis Hoffmann) in Yellow stone, Kirkland's Warbler (dealbatus killdeer), California Condor (Gymnoascus californianus), Puerto Rican Parrot (Amazona vicarius), pacificus (lobata bachei), and Layman Finch (tectorum cantons). The model results indicate a favorable outlook for the Whooping Crane, but long-term unfavorable prospects for the Yellow stone grizzly bear population and for Kirkland's Warbler. Results for the California Condor, in a retrospective analysis, indicate a virtual emergency existed in 1980. The analyses suggest that the Puerto Rican Parrot faces little risk of extinction from ordinary environmental fluctuations, provided intensive management efforts continue. However, the model does not account for the possibility of freak catastrophic events (hurricanes, fires, etc.), which are likely the most severe source of risk to the Puerto Rican Parrot, as shown by the recent decimation of this population by Hurricane Hugo. Model parameter estimates for the pacificus and the Layman Finch have wide uncertainty due to the extreme fluctuations in the population sizes of these species. In general, the model fits the example data sets well. We conclude that the model, and the associated statistical methods, can be useful for investigating various scientific and management questions concerning species preservation.
10.2307/1942997|Primary production, plant biomass, plant element content, and various measures of turnover and element cycling were compared among four contrasting tundra vegetation types near Toolik Lake, Alaska. The study sites were selected to represent extreme examples of the wide variation in plant growth form composition that is typical of northern ecosystems. The aim of the research was to determine whether vegetation types that differ in their dominant plant growth form also differ in their production: biomass relationships and overall patterns of element use. The four sites included tussock tundra, a deciduous shrub-dominated riparian tundra, an evergreen heath tundra, and wet sedge tundra. Biomass and element content (N, P, K, Ca, and Mg) were determined for both vascular and nonvascular plants, and production estimates were obtained for vascular plants. Production and biomass of most tissues were determined by quadrat harvest methods, with additional, separate determinations of stem secondary growth and belowground rhizome growth as components of net primary production (NPP). Production, biomass, and element content of roots were not determined. Vascular plant biomass (excluding roots) varied by nearly 9 x among sites, from 217 to 1877 g/m^2. At least 50% of the vascular biomass at all four sites was belowground stems, but the relative allocation to leaves vs. aboveground stems varied greatly. When mosses and lichens were included, total biomass varied by only 5@ among sites, and lichens were in fact the most abundant plant form at the evergreen heath site. The element content in vascular biomass of these communities varied by 8-21@, depending upon the element; including mosses and lichens, element content varied by 6-12x. Primary productivity of vascular plants also varied sharply among sites, from 32 to 305 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 (not including root production). Leaves were the largest single component of NPP at all sites, but the relative importance of above- and belowground stem growth varied considerably. The element requirements of vascular NPP varied by 9-17@, depending upon the element. Despite these order-of-magnitude differences among sites in biomass, production, and element requirements, and the dramatic variation in allocation patterns, there was remarkably little difference among sites in the overall production: biomass relationships and element turnover. These overall similarities were due to the dominant effect of stems and rhizomes in the whole-plant and whole-vegetation biomass and element budgets. The wide range of leaf turnover rates and leaf production efficiencies was compensated at the whole-plant level by stem processes, especially element storage. Thus, we conclude that plant growth form composition is not a good indicator of whole-vegetation biomass turnover rates and patterns of element use, although growth form composition is related to total production and biomass.
10.2307/2657194|The effects of humans and climatic variation on fire history in northern Patagonia, Argentina, were examined by dating fire scars on 458 trees at 21 sites in rain forests of Fitzroya cupressoides and xeric woodlands of Austrocedrus chilensis from 39
3100074|For organisms whose juvenile stages develop in discrete habitats, the strategy adults use to select patches directly impacts reproductive success. In most environments, the magnitude of juvenile mortality risks varies spatially and temporally among patches, often at several scales. Little is known, however, about how closely adults track such variation in site quality and how the predictability of risks facing juveniles influences the strategy adults adopt. I addressed these questions in a three-year study of Edalorhina perezi, an iteroparous frog that reproduces in forest pools in the southwestern Amazon Basin. Using observations and experiments, I quantified the spatial and temporal variation in direct and indirect mortality risks facing tadpoles at 18-34 pools. Data on larval risks were compared with observations of adult pool choice, including nest distribution and movement trends. Direct risks, pool drying and insect predation, accounted for 95% of estimated tadpole mortality. The indirect effect of tadpole density on mortality was small, slightly increasing tadpole drying risk. When pool risks were combined, persistent pools were predictably lower in risk early and late in the rainy season, while ephemeral pools were slightly advantageous midseason. At the population level, site choice shifted seasonally from persistent to ephemeral pools. Nonetheless, three lines of evidence suggest that adults were sensitive to local variation in larval risks. First, movement patterns were consistent with yearly changes in predation risk. Second, adults favored newly formed pools, which had lower predator densities and were likely to be more productive. Third, adults favored pools without recent reproductive activity. Whether fixed or flexible, the selective advantage for observed site choice was not evident during the last 50 d of the rainy season, when a majority of adults used ephemeral pools at a time when persistent pools appeared favorable for tadpoles. This study suggests that E. perezi responds to variation in juvenile risks at several scales when selecting reproductive sites. Yet adults appeared to be strikingly imperfect at tracking risk. Errors could arise due to cues that differ in their reliability or if adults shift from risk-sensitive to risk-prone strategies. Moreover, the behavior of conspecifics may constrain optimal site choice.
10.2307/1942450|Two adjacent, abandoned hayfields in central New York State were subjected to nutrient enrichment perturbation by means of a single application of 10-10-10 N, P, K fertilizer early in the growing season of 1970. Aboveground arthropod herbivores and carnivores were monitored with respect to net productivity (dB/dt) and diversity for one growing season (1970) in the younger field (6 yr old), and for two growing seasons (1970 and 1971) in the older field (17 and 18 yr old). Sampling of arthropods was done with a gasoline-powered suction sampler between 1200 and 1600 h, twice weekly. Stability of the old-field arthropods was defined as resistance to change imposed by external (fertilizer) perturbation and was measured in terms of (1) magnitude (amplitude of deflection from ground state, (2) rate of initial response to perturbation, and (3) rate of damping or return to ground state. The degree of deflection from ground state was determined by comparing fertilized (treated) plots with unfertilized (control) plots in each field. During the first growing season the older, more species-rich field was less stable with respect to magnitude and rate of productivity deflection than the younger, less species-rich field at both arthropod consumer levels. In addition, the magnitude of productivity deflection from ground state was lower in the carnivore level than in the herbivore trophic level. By the second growing season, the productivity of the arthropod consumers in the treated plots of the older field had not yet returned to control levels. The productivity of arthropod herbivores in the older field exhibited a relatively lower magnitude of response in 1971 than in 1970, while the arthropod carnivores in the older field exhibited a significantly greater difference from ground state in 1971 than in 1970. It was concluded that (1) the magnitude of deflection caused by the enrichment perturbation was decreased up the trophic levels from the herbivore to the carnivore level, (2) the rate of response to perturbation decreased up the trophic levels, and (3) although in control plots diversity increased and productivity decreased with increasing successional age for both trophic levels, stability was not positively related to either higher diversity or to increasing age in either consumer trophic level in this old-field successional ecosystem.
10.2307/2937032|Three species of 17-yr periodical cicadas--Magicicada septendecim (Linnaeus), M. cassini (Fisher), and M. septendecula Alexander and Moore--have ranges that are coextensive except around the edges. All the cicadas occurring together are the same age and emerge in the same 17th yr (hence they are @'periodical@'), yet populations in different parts of the range (called @'broods@') are out of phase with one another. Within the same brood, the three species are always perfectly synchronized, but they are separated microspatially by having different habitats within the same woodland. Magicicada septendecula prefers ovipositing in hickories and walnuts, and emerges in higher proportions under those trees than under comparable oaks. Both M. septendecim and M. septendecula occur together in upland woods, but septendecim exhibits much less host specificity than septendecula. The latter species is much rarer than septendecim; it can usually be heard chorusing in local patches within a woods occupied by septendecim. Magicicada cassini is a species of floodplain woods, and characteristically can be seen to replace septendecim and septendecula as one moves down a wooded slope leading to a stream. Over much of the eastern United States, however, the original forest has been extensively disturbed. Periodical cicadas survive and reproduce surprisingly well in cutover, scrubby second growth. Tree species characteristic of floodplains, like American elm, are often a component of upland second growth, and, especially in such situations, cassini, septendecim, and septendecula become intermixed though they remain reproductively isolated. The present lack of microspatial separation in many situations, then, is an artifact of human disturbance. Even so, on the edges of the range where only one species occurs, it does not invade the habitat of the other, even though its @'competitor@' is absent. These assertions are based on 4 yrs of summer field studies, from 1962-65 on Broods II, III, IV, and V primarily in Virginia, Iowa, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Ohio, and later, more cursory observations in 1968-70 on Broods VIII, IX, and X in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Indiana, as well as on previous studies by ourselves and others reported in the literature.
10.2307/2937351|Annual survival rates in 38 populations of 17 sea urchins species in the Indo-West Pacific were related to relative size of the body wall and exposure to the surf. The urchin species are: Heterocentrotus trigonarius, H. mammillatus, Colobocentrotus atratus, Echinometra mathaei, E. oblonga, and Heliocidaris erythrogramma in the family Echinometridae; Prionocidaris baculosa in the Cidaridae; Stomopneustes variolaris in the Stomopneustidae; Echinothrix calamaris, E. diadema, Centrostephanus rodgersi, Diadema paucispinum, and D. setosum in the Diadematidae; Tripneustes gratilla, another Tripneustes sp. (possibly the same as T. gratilla), and Toxopneustes pileolus in the Toxopneustidae; and Salmacis belli in the Temnopleuridae. Populations were studied at Hawaii, Enewetak Atoll, Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia, Sri Lanka, Seychelles, Kenya, Zanzibar, and Israel (Eilat). Live animals were dissected to determine the size of body components. The relative size (mass) of the body wall for a species is expressed by the constant @a in the equation B = @aT^@b, where B is wet mass of the body wall and T is total wet mass. A common @b value of 0.976 @+ 0.004 (SE) was used for all species, so @a values can be used to compare relative body wall sizes among species. Values of @a ranged from 0.966 for Heterocentrotus trigonarius (Enewetak Atoll) to 0.360 for Salmacis belli (Moreton Bay, Queensland, Australia). Parameters of the Richards growth function were determined from animals tagged with tetracy-cline. Tagged animals were collected after they had been in the field for 1 yr. Growth parameters were used with parameters from size-frequency distributions to estimate Z, the mortality coefficient. Annual survival probability p is e^-^z. Stepwise multiple regression was used to examine the relationship between annual survival probability (p) and two independent variables, @a and E, where E is a subjective measure of exposure to surf (1 = most exposed). The function is p = 1.20@a + 0.061E - 0.350. Survivorship increases with increased relative size of the body wall and with increased protection from the surf. The positive relationship between survival probability and relative body wall size supports the hypothesis that survival is related to allocation of resources to maintenance. The significance of longevity in urchins probably is that it is related to the predictability of survival of prereproductive individuals. The greater the unpredictability, the longer life must be. Long life requires a greater investment in maintenance mechanisms and hence, among other adaptations, a more massive body wall.
43187594|Fungi play key roles in ecosystems as mutualists, pathogens, and decomposers. Current estimates of global species richness are highly uncertain, and the importance of stochastic vs. deterministic forces in the assembly of fungal communities is unknown. Molecular studies have so far failed to reach saturated, comprehensive estimates of fungal diversity. To obtain a more accurate estimate of global fungal diversity, we used a direct molecular approach to census diversity in a boreal ecosystem with precisely known plant diversity, and we carefully evaluated adequacy of sampling and accuracy of species delineation. We achieved the first exhaustive enumeration of fungi in soil, recording 1002 taxa in this system. We show that the fungus:plant ratio in Picea mariana forest soils from interior Alaska is at least 17:1 and is regionally stable. A global extrapolation of this ratio would suggest 6 million species of fungi, as opposed to leading estimates ranging from 616000 to 1.5 million. We also find that closely related fungi often occupy divergent niches. This pattern is seen in fungi spanning all major functional guilds and four phyla, suggesting a major role of deterministic niche partitioning in community assembly. Extinctions and range shifts are reorganizing biodiversity on Earth, yet our results suggest that 98% of fungi remain undescribed and that many of these species occupy unique niches.
10.2307/2937326|An individual animal may suffer simultaneously from several different maladies, which lead to its eventual death. Such @'overlaps@' between contemporaneous mortality factors create some problems in partitioning, in a consistent manner, the animals killed among several specific causes. The aim of this paper is to develop the notion of @'killing power@' of a mortality factor, so that we can properly evaluate and incorporate in a model the effect of any given factor on the dynamics of the animal population concerned. I first introduce the basic notion of killing power under the assumption that the mortality factors involved are operating independently of each other. The killing power of a given factor is then shown to be equivalent to the marginal probability of an animal being killed by that factor. The assumption of independence of the mortality factors is relaxed, and the more general notion of conditional killing power is introduced. This is equivalent to the conditional probability of an animal being killed by a given mortality factor, when that individual has not been simultaneously affected by other contemporaneous factors. The concept of mutually exclusive mortality factors is discussed to clarify an apparent confusion in some published literature. Typical examples of this type of mortality factor are an extended drought and excessively wet weather, both of which may kill some animals, but which will not occur simultaneously. Therefore, unless the stage division in the life tables so broad that these types of factors can occur in the same stage, we do not need to consider mutually exclusive mortality factors. How to evaluate the killing power of a mortality factor is illustrated with some examples taken from the literature. Also discussed is a more complicated case, in which the annual fluctuation in the proportion of animals killed by a given factor is correlated with those killed by other contemporaneous mortality factors. Concluding remarks include some notes on the division of stages in a life table so as to facilitate the evaluation of the killing powers of as many mortality factors as possible.
10.2307/3100027|Food quality may play an important role in consumer population dynamics. The frequently large differences in elemental and biochemical composition observed between autotrophs and their grazers suggest that food quality may be of particular importance for herbivores. Under nutrient-depleted conditions the carbon-to-nutrient ratios of autotrophs can increase to such an extent that consumers become nutrient rather than energy limited. Estimating the importance of this effect in situ in pelagic food webs is complicated by the omnivory of many consumers and by rapid nutrient recycling. Isolated predator-prey studies inadequately represent this interaction; instead, an ecosystem perspective is required. We used seven years of data from large, deep Lake Constance to develop seasonally resolved flux models of the pelagic food web and analyzed the balance between energy and nutrient constraints. The carbon (C) and phosphorus (P) flows were simultaneously quantified and balanced. C represented food quantity/energy. P was taken as a surrogate of food quality, because algal C:P ratios exceeded the threshold above which P limitation of herbivores is predicted by stoichiometric theory throughout summer and autumn. Primary production exceeded bacterial C production by a factor of 3, but autotrophs and bacteria took up approximately equal amounts of P during summer and autumn. As a consequence, the C and P supplies of suspension-feeding zooplankton were decoupled: Consumer C demands were largely met by phytoplankton whereas P was mostly obtained from bacteria and their protist predators. The degree of consumer P deficiency varied according to supplementation of their algal diet with P-enriched bacteria or bacterivores. This favored the occurrence of omnivores, i.e., organisms that minimized P deficiencies at the cost of enhanced energy limitation. In contrast with previous perceptions, P remineralization during P-depleted summer conditions was dominated by bacterivorous flagellates, carnivorous crustaceans, and fish, which fed on prey with an elemental composition similar to their own, whereas herbivores contributed only 30% of P cycling despite their large biomass and C production. Our results suggested a co-limitation of predominantly herbivorous consumers by C and P and a mutual dependence of the two types of deficiency at the individual and system level. This pattern is not specific to pelagic systems but appears to be applicable across ecosystem types.
27646084|Chaparral species of California, USA, exhibit three life history types in response to fire: non-sprouters (NS), facultative sprouters (FS), and obligate sprouters (OS). Adult non-sprouters are killed by fire; thus populations reestablish only through firestimulated seed germination and seedling recruitment. Facultative sprouters reestablish by both vegetative sprouting and seed germination. Obligate sprouters reestablish only by vegetative sprouting and do not recruit seedlings post-fire. Previous data suggest that post-fire NS and FS seedlings reestablish as open-canopy gap specialists, whereas OS seedlings primarily reestablish in deep shade during fire-free intervals. Their non-refractory seeds are killed by fire. We hypothesized that these differences in life history, compared within the same taxonomic group, would result in a range of relative resistance to water stress such that NS > FS > OS. To test our hypothesis, we estimated resistance to water stress using resistance to xylem cavitation (the water potential at 50% loss in hydraulic conductivity; 50) for stems and roots in nine species of the family Rhamnaceae: Ceanothus megacarpus, C. crassifolius, and C. cuneatus (NS); C. spinosus, C. oliganthus, and C. leucodermis (FS); and Rhamnus ilicifolia, R. crocea, and R. californica (OS). Stems of NS species displayed greater resistance to cavitation (50 = -8.38  0.47 MPa) compared to both the FS (50 = -5.07  0.55 MPa) and OS species (50 = -5.99  0.38 MPa), whereas FS and OS species were not different. For roots, the general pattern was the same, but roots were generally less cavitation resistant than stems. A hydraulic model predicted that water uptake in OS species was limited by extensive cavitation in vulnerable root xylem, consistent with a reliance on deep soil water. Water uptake in cavitation-resistant NS species was most limited by soil hydraulic resistance, consistent with maximizing extraction of shallow soil water. These results suggest a link between life history and water stress tolerance in chaparral.
10.2307/1942468|In an attempt to define environmental heterogeneity and uncertainty in a meaningful manner, thermal and hydric aspects of the microenvironment of the pitcher plant mosquito (Wyeomyia smithii) were studied. Mechanistic mass and energy balance models were developed to predict surface temperatures in a Sphagnum bog and temperatures and water losses in Sarracenia purpurea pitchers. Field tests indicate that the models predicted surface and pitcher temperatures within 2@?-3@?C, and hourly and daily water losses from pitchers to within 30%, using only basic meteoroligical data as inputs. Experiments and observations in a natural population of W. smithii in northern Michigan, USA revealed significant differences in larval developmental rate, voltinism, and larval mortality due to microclimatic effects. The model predicts larval developmental rates and voltinism for each microclimate within 10%. Water loss simulations predict, and field observations confirm, that pitcher desiccation is a function of microclimate and pitcher size, and that rainfall patterns on the order of 5-30 d determine desiccation patterns. Identification of the spatial and temporal scale of both the environment and the organismic (population) phenomena in question is crucial to constructing a meaningful definition of environmental heterogenity. Thermal and hydric components of environmental variation may play an important role in the maintenance of fitness variation in W. smithii. These results support the hypothesis of Istock (1978) that environmental uncertainty favors mixed life strategies in Wyeomyia.
10.2307/1942565| Various physical and biological factors affecting coral community structure were investigated by direct observation and periodic censusing (supplemented with laboratory observations and experiments) on three coral reefs off the Pacific coast of Panama from 1970 to 1975. The physical environment has a strong control over coral growth at shallow depth; physical factors are also important subtidally (light, sediment transport). However, paralleling the pattern on temperate shores, biological processes (competition, predation, bioturbation, mutualism) assume an increasing influence on community structure in deeper and more diverse reef assemblages. Coral zonation is marked on these biologically simple and small reefs; the following assemblages are recognized: drying reef flat--live coral cover moderate, species diversity low; reef crest and upper reef slope--highest cover, lowest diversity; lower reef slope and reef base--cover moderate to low, diversity highest. Coral populations in the different zones, though spatially close, are affected by unique sets of conditions. Recurrent extreme tidal exposures devastate reef flat corals (Pocillopora mortality = 40%-60%). The mortality rate of pocilloporid corals is higher than for other corals; this has a diversifying effect on the reef flat assemblage. Acanthaster normally feeds in deep reef zones and numerically its major prey are the predominant pocilloporid corals (most often small colonies and broken branches). Electivity indices and prey choice experiments indicate that less abundant, nonbranching corals are preferred over Pocillopora. Large, branching pocilloporid colonies harbor crustacean symbionts (Trapezia and Alpheus) which can repulse Acanthaster and therefore protect this group of corals. Experimental removal of the symbionts results in a shift of prey preference from nonbranching corals towards the branching pocilloporids. Crustacean symbionts were present in all large Pocillopora colonies sampled, but the density of Trapezia in colonies on the reef flat was about twice that in colonies from deep zones where Acanthaster forages. Further, small pocilloporid colonies and fragments contained relatively few (and a high proportion of juvenile) symbionts. The variety of preferred coral prey present along the seaward reef flanks and the relatively low abundance of Pocillopora in this habitat are considered important factors affecting the distribution of Acanthaster. In addition, a continuous live cover of pocilloporid corals, which Acanthaster avoids, can protect reef zones (e.g., the reef flat) or preferred prey species from attack. The selective destruction of nonpocilloporid corals by Acanthaster tends to lower both live coral cover and species diversity (H'). This trend is evident on the Uva Island study reef where a significant decline in coral cover (47%-18%) and H' (1.06-0.58) occurred over a 4-mo period. 
10.2307/1942654|Biological interactions between meiofauna and macroepifauna were studied in a high salt marsh habitat using manipulative techniques. When macroepifauna were excluded from experimental cage sites, meiofauna densities increased significantly compared to open, noncaged areas. Meiobenthic polychaetes and copepods displayed consistent, seasonal increases in abundance inside cages, although their patterns of response were notably different. The dominant meiobenthic copepods, Stenhelia (D.) bifidia, Microarthridion littorale, Enhydrosoma propinquum, and Schizopera knabeni, responded to macroepifauna exclusion by rapidly (within weeks) increasing in density inside cages and, subsequently, crashing to control field levels. Polychaetes, represented mainly by Manayunkia aestuarina, increased more slowly than copepods inside cages, and unlike copepods, showed no signs of density limitation inside macroepifauna-excluded areas. In cage sites reopened to macroepifauna influences, copepod densities decreased to values intermediate between cage and open control areas, while polychaetes were quickly reduced to open field densities. The exclusion of macroepifauna not only produced changes in densities of polychaetes, but also resulted in increased survival of large size classes. My experimental results support the hypothesis that acroepifauna predation/disturbance has an important effect on meiofaunal assemblages, thus providing insight into possible competitive associations between meiofauna taxa. The significance of meiofauna-macrofauna interactions in benthic systems is discussed.
43187893|Land-use changes through forestry and other activities alter not just carbon storage, but biophysical properties, including albedo, surface roughness, and canopy conductance, all of which affect temperature. This study assessed the biophysical forcings and climatic impact of vegetation replacement across North America by comparing satellitederived albedo, land surface temperature (LST), and evapotranspiration (ET) between adjacent vegetation types. We calculated radiative forcings (RF) for potential local conversions from croplands (CRO) or grasslands (GRA) to evergreen needleleaf (ENF) or deciduous broadleaf (DBF) forests. Forests generally had lower albedo than adjacent grasslands or croplands, particularly in locations with snow. They also had warmer nighttime LST, cooler daily and daytime LST in warm seasons, and smaller daily LST ranges. Darker forest surfaces induced positive RFs, dampening the cooling effect of carbon sequestration. The mean (SD) albedo-induced RFs for each land conversion were equivalent to carbon emissions of 2.2  0.7 kg C/m (GRA-ENF), 2.0  0.6 kg C/m (CRO-ENF), 0.90  0.50 kg C/m (CRO-DBF), and 0.73  0.22 kg C/m (GRA-DBF), suggesting that, given the same carbon sequestration potential, a larger net cooling (integrated globally) is expected for planting DBF than ENF. Both changes in LST and ET induce longwave RFs that sometimes had values comparable to or even larger than albedo-induced shortwave RFs. Sensible heat flux, on average, increased when replacing CRO with ENF, but decreased for conversions to DBF, suggesting that DBF tends to cool near-surface air locally while ENF tends to warm it. This local temperature effect showed some seasonal variation and spatial dependence, but did not differ strongly by latitude. Overall, our results show that a carbon-centric accounting is, in . many cases, insufficient for climate mitigation policies. Where afforestation or reforestation occurs, however, deciduous broadleaf trees are likely to produce stronger cooling benefits than evergreen needleleaf trees provide.
10.2307/1942594|The ecological energetics and foraging behavior of overwintering Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) were studied in 1978-1979 and 1979-1980 on the Nooksack River in northwestern Washington and in the laboratory. We investigated eagle energy requirements and energy relationships in a winter environment, and adaptations to winter energy and food (chum salmon [Oncorhynchus keta]) stress. We developed a model to predict the energy metabolism of free-living eagles. Information of food consumption and energy requirements of captive Bald Eagles was supplemented with laboratory and field data to determine energy costs of free existence. Basal metabolic rate, as measured by oxygen consumption on four eagles, was 11.595 kJ@?g^-^1@?h^-^1; a lower critical temperature of 10.6@?C was recorded. Standard metabolic rate increased linearly with decreasing temperature. Thermal conductance was 0.347 kJ@?g^-^1@?h^-^1@?@?C^-^1. The diel range in body temperature was from 38.9@? to 41.2@?. Energy metabolism was measured in response to artificially induced rainfall. During 40 trials of 4 h of continuous rain, metabolism increased up to 9 and 21% at 6.1 and 22.2 cm/h rain levels, respectively. Effects of rain on heat loss by wild eagles on the Nooksack River were negligible even though precipitation was high. Data on metabolic responses were incorporated in a black-body heat-budget model which predicted energy costs of free existence. Ambient temperature, wind velocity, long-wave radiation, and rainfall data collected at three microhabitats used by eagles also were incorporated into the heat-budget model to determine heat production by wild birds. Activity budgets were assessed by tracking four radio-tagged eagles for 38 d. Flight activity occurred only during 1% of the 24-h day, and energy costs of flight (110 kJ/d) were included in the model. The daily energy budget (total energy metabolized), daily energy consumption (total food energy required), and daily food (salmon) consumption (total mass of food required) were 1703 kJ, 2068 kJ, and 489 g, respectively, for a 4.5-kg Nooksack eagle. Energy and food needs of free-living eagles were @?10% more than for captive eagles. Most eagles roosted in coniferous rather than deciduous forest even though they expended more energy to travel there. By roosting in conifers they accrued a net daily energy savings of 61 kJ, or @?5% of the daily energy budget after accounting for energy costs of flight to and from the roost. Energy savings in this protected microclimate were afforded by higher ambient temperature and long-wave radiation levels, and lower wind velocity; reduced rainfall had little effect. Social interactions by feeding eagles were quantified during 46 d of observation. Adult eagles were dominant over younger birds and were more successful at kleptoparasitizing (stealing) food. Kleptoparasitism was the primary means by which food was acquired. Interaction frequency averaged 0.27 interactions/min during feeding and was positively correlated with the size of the feeding group. Juveniles and subadults were less effective at feeding than adults. They consumed 410 and 459 g@?bird^-^1@?d^-^1 of salmon, respectively, while the adults ingested 552 g@?bird^-^1@?d^-^1. Young eagles failed to acquire the needed 489 g@?bird^-^1@?d^-^1 of salmon. The effects of this socially mediated food deprivation resulted in a less than optimal use of time and energy by young birds. When food is limited, young eagles probably incur the highest mortality rates. Our data indicate that overwintering Bald Eagles are effective at exploiting and conserving energy. They maximize energy gain by foraging in groups, gorging, and assimilating more energy during cold stress. They minimize energy loss by becoming sedentary, seeking protective microclimates, reducing nocturnal body temperatures, and reducing foraging costs by living in groups. Because Bald Eagles are suspected to be food-limited, protective management policies that reduce energy stress could reduce overwinter morality.
27646091|North America harbors an astounding proportion of the world's freshwater species, but it is facing a freshwater biodiversity crisis. A first step to slowing the loss of biodiversity involves identifying gaps in existing efforts to conserve biodiversity and prioritizing opportunities to fill these gaps. In this monograph we detail two separate, but complementary, conservation planning effortsa Gap Analysis (GAP) and a State Wildlife Action Plan (WAP)for Missouri that address this first step. The goal of the Missouri Aquatic GAP Project was to identify riverine ecosystems, habitats, and species not adequately represented (i.e., gaps) within existing conservation lands. The goal of the freshwater component of the Missouri Wildlife Action Plan was to identify and map a set of conservation-opportunity areas (COAs) that holistically represent all riverine ecosystems, habitats, and species in Missouri. Since conservation planning is a geographical exercise, both efforts utilized geographic information systems (GIS). Four principal GIS data sets were used in each planning effort: (1) a hierarchical riverine ecosystem classification, (2) predicted species distributions, (3) public ownership/stewardship, and (4) a human-threat index. Results of the gap analyses are not encouraging. Forty five, mostly rare, threatened, or endangered, species are not represented in lands set aside for conserving biodiversity. Results also illustrate the fragmented nature of conservation lands, which are mainly situated in the uplands and fail to provide connectivity among riverine habitats. Furthermore, many conservation lands are severely threatened by an array of human disturbances. In contrast, results of the WAP provide hope that relatively intact riverine ecosystems still exist. A total of 158 COAs, representing 6% of the total kilometers of stream in Missouri, were selected for the WAP. This illustrates that a wide spectrum of biodiversity can be represented within a small portion of the total resource base, but the area of conservation concern is often much larger. Identifying priority riverscapes for conservation is an important first step toward effective biodiversity conservation. Yet, achieving the ultimate goal of conserving biodiversity will require vigilance on the part of all responsible parties, with particular attention to addressing and coordinating the many remaining logistical tasks.
4539056|Exotic plants often face different conditions from those experienced where they are native. The general issue of how exotics respond to unfamiliar environments within their new range is not well understood. Phenotypic plasticity has historically been seen as the primary mechanism enabling exotics to colonize large, environmentally diverse areas. However, new work indicates that exotics can evolve quickly, suggesting that contemporary evolution may be more important in invasion ecology than previously appreciated. To determine the influence of contemporary evolution, phenotypic plasticity, and founder effects in affecting phenotypic variation among introduced plants, we compared the size, fecundity, and leaf area of St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) collected from native European and introduced western and central North American populations in common gardens in Washington, California, Spain, and Sweden. We also determined genetic relationships among these plants by examining variation in amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers. There was substantial genetic variation among introduced populations and evidence for multiple introductions of H. perforatum into North America. Across common gardens introduced plants were neither universally larger nor more fecund than natives. However, within common gardens, both introduced and native populations exhibited significant latitudinally based clines in size and fecundity. Clines among introduced populations broadly converged with those among native populations. Introduced and native plants originating from northern latitudes generally outperformed those originating from southern latitudes when grown in northern latitude gardens of Washington and Sweden. Conversely, plants from southern latitudes performed best in southern gardens in Spain and California. Clinal patterns in leaf area, however, did not change between gardens; European and central North American plants from northern latitudes had larger leaves than plants from southern latitudes within these regions in both Washington and California, the two gardens where this trait was measured. Introduced plants did not always occur at similar latitudes as their most closely related native progenitor, indicating that pre-adaptation (i.e., climate matching) is unlikely to be the sole explanation for clinal patterns among introduced populations. Instead, results suggest that introduced plants are evolving adaptations to broad-scale environmental conditions in their introduced range.
23596747|Ecological models help us understand how ecosystems function, predict responses to global change, and identify future research needs. However, widespread use of models is limited by the technical challenges of modeldata synthesis and information management. To address these challenges, we present an ecoinformatic workflow, the Predictive Ecosystem Analyzer (PEcAn), which facilitates model analysis. Herein we describe the PEcAn modules that synthesize plant trait data to estimate model parameters, propagate parameter uncertainties through to model output, and evaluate the contribution of each parameter to model uncertainty. We illustrate a comprehensive approach to the estimation of parameter values, starting with a statement of prior knowledge that is refined by species-level data using Bayesian meta-analysis; this is the first use of a rigorous meta-analysis to inform the parameters of a mechanistic ecosystem model. Parameter uncertainty is propagated using ensemble methods to estimate model uncertainty. Variance decomposition allows us to quantify the contribution of each parameter to model uncertainty; this information can be used to prioritize subsequent data collection. By streamlining the use of models and focusing efforts to identify and constrain the dominant sources of uncertainty in model output, the approach used by PEcAn can speed scientific progress. We demonstrate PEcAn's ability to incorporate data to reduce uncertainty in productivity of a perennial grass monoculture (Panicum virgatum L.) modeled by the Ecosystem Demography model. Prior estimates were specified for 15 model parameters, and species-level data were available for seven of these. Meta-analysis of species-level data substantially reduced the contribution of three parameters (specific leaf area, maximum carboxylation rate, and stomatal slope) to overall model uncertainty. By contrast, root turnover rate, root respiration rate, and leaf width had little effect on model output; therefore trait data had little impact on model uncertainty. For fine-root allocation, the decrease in parameter uncertainty was offset by an increase in model sensitivity. Remaining model uncertainty is driven by growth respiration, fine-root allocation, leaf turnover rater, and specific leaf area. By establishing robust channels of feedback between data collection and ecosystem modeling, PEcAn provides a framework for more efficient and integrative science.
10.2307/2657186|A controversy exists in the Pacific Northwest of the United States between logging of old-growth coniferous forests and conservation of Northern Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) populations. This species has a strong association with old-growth forests that also have economic value as timber. Research questions relevant to conservation of this species include how temporal trends in Northern Spotted Owl populations are influenced and how spatial configuration of old-growth forests affects these populations. To address these questions, we studied a population of marked Northern Spotted Owls on 95 territories in northwestern California from 1985 through 1994. We examined the magnitude of temporal and spatial variation in life history traits (survival, reproductive output, and recruitment), the effects of climate and landscape characteristics on temporal and spatial variation in these traits, respectively, and how this variation affected aspects of population dynamics. We used a components-of-variation analysis to partition sampling from process variation, and a model selection approach to estimate life history traits using capture-recapture and random-effects models. Climate explained most of the temporal variation in life history traits. Annual survival varied the least over time, whereas recruitment rate varied the most, suggesting a "bet-hedging" life history strategy for the owl. A forecast of annual rates of population change (), estimated from life history traits, suggested that Northern Spotted Owl populations may change solely due to climate influences, even with unchanging habitat conditions. In terms of spatial variation, annual survival on territories was positively associated both with amounts of interior old-growth forest and with length of edge between those forests and other vegetation types. Reproductive output was negatively associated with interior forest, but positively associated with edge between mature and old-growth conifer forest and other vegetation types. A gradient existed in territory-specific estimates of fitness derived from these life history estimates. This gradient suggested that a mosaic of older forest interspersed with other vegetation types promoted high fitness in Northern Spotted Owls. Habitat quality, as defined by fitness, appeared to buffer variation in annual survival but did not buffer reproductive output. We postulated that the magnitude of  was determined by habitat quality, whereas variation of  was influenced by recruitment and reproductive output. As habitat quality declines, variation in  should become more pronounced.
10.2307/1942294|The dynamics of naturally occurring high (zone 1) and low (zone 2) populations of the limpet, Acmaea scabra, were investigated on Bodega Head in Sonoma County, California. Populations at different intertidal heights can be considered separate because migration between levels is precluded by the homing behavior of A. scabra. Each population was investigated by means of 400-cm^2 quadrats containing marked individuals; the quadrats were censused approximately every 2 months and yielded information on density, size distribution, dispersion, recruitment, growth, and mortality. Samples were collected from each population approximately every 2 weeks to determine the seasonal pattern of reproduction and changes in size-specific weights. In zone 1 the probable pattern of food availability was distinctly seasonal because of the interaction of tides and climate. Growth and reproduction in this zone were also seasonal, probably increasing and decreasing with the food supply. Seasonal changes in size-specific weights were correlated with the reproductive cycle. Dispersion in zone 1 was always contagious. Recruitment was lower in zone 1, resulting in lower densities and a lower rate of mortality. Annual growth was greater in zone 1 because of the lower densities; consequently limpets in zone 1 were larger and biomass was greater than in zone 2. The population in zone 1 was susceptible to density-independent (catastrophic) mortality and corresponds to a population on the @'edge@' of the species' range. In zone 2 food was probably more constantly available because this zone was submerged more regularly and to a greater extent than zone 1. As a result there were more constant rates of growth and reproduction, and since reproduction was less variable, there were no seasonal changes in size-specific weights. Dispersion in zone 2 was random or, occasionally, uniform. Recruitment was higher in zone 2 resulting in higher densities and a higher mortality rate. Annual growth was lower because of the higher densities; consequently limpets in zone 2 were smaller and biomass was lower than in zone 1. The population in zone 2 was less susceptible to density-independent (catastrophic) mortality and corresponds to a population in the @'center@' of the species' range. Zone 2 is the @'center@' of the species' range, yet individual performance was poor because of the high densities; the probability of dying was high, growth rates were low, and the animals remained small. In both zones competition for food limited biomass, but lack of food did not cause mortality, i.e., regulate density.
10.2307/3100099|Recognition and analysis of spatial autocorrelation has defined a new paradigm in ecology. Attention to spatial pattern can lead to insights that would have been otherwise overlooked, while ignoring space may lead to false conclusions about ecological relationships. We used Gaussian spatial autoregressive models, fit with widely available software, to examine breeding habitat relationships for three common Neotropical migrant songbirds in the southern Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina and Tennessee, USA. In preliminary models that ignored space, the abundance of all three species was correlated with both local- and landscape-scale habitat variables. These models were then modified to account for broadscale spatial trend (via trend surface analysis) and fine-scale autocorrelation (via an autoregressive spatial covariance matrix). Residuals from ordinary least squares regression models were autocorrelated, indicating that the assumption of independent errors was violated. In contrast, residuals from autoregressive models showed little spatial pattern, suggesting that these models were appropriate. The magnitude of habitat effects tended to decrease, and the relative importance of different habitat variables shifted when we incorporated broadscale and then fine-scale space into the analysis. The degree to which habitat effects changed when space was added to the models was roughly correlated with the amount of spatial structure in the habitat variables. Spatial pattern in the residuals from ordinary least squares models may result from failure to include or adequately measure autocorrelated habitat variables. In addition, contagious processes, such as conspecific attraction, may generate spatial patterns in species abundance that cannot be explained by habitat models. For our study species, spatial patterns in the ordinary least squares residuals suggest that a scale of 500-1000 m would be appropriate for investigating possible contagious processes.
27646107|Knowing that diverse plantings enhanced biomass and nitrogen (N) accumulation in a restored California salt marsh, we asked if the "biodiversity effect" was due to species selection or complementarity. In a two-year greenhouse experiment, we found positive biodiversity effects on total, root, and shoot biomass, total and root N crop, and on biomass and N allocation; negative effects on root and shoot N concentration; and no effect on shoot N crop. Overyielding among trios and sextets was supported by significant deviations in observed yield from that expected relative to solo yields (DT). However, both trios and sextets strongly underyielded relative to the highest yielding solo in the assemblage (Dmax) in all attributes, and to the dominant species in the assemblage (Ddom) in most attributes. When we decomposed biodiversity effects on shoot characteristics, selection effects primarily drove over- and underyielding. The only complementarity effect was underyielding of sextet shoot biomass. These analyses were possible because we replicated assemblages and evaluated 11 response variables. One species (Salicornia virginica) dominated functioning when present; when absent, another dominated (e.g., Frankenia salina). Effects varied with the response tested, however. For both shoot biomass and N crop, S. virginica was the dominant overyielding species (based on Dij and comparisons of trios  target species). For shoot N concentration, however, the dominant was Triglochin concinna, a species that had low biomass but was capable of reducing assemblage performance, presumably by concentrating N. Evidence for strong species selection effects led us to predict that three species would eventually dominate our parallel field experiment that tested the same assemblages. Exactly that happened in nine years, but (we predict) without losing function, because the site retained the three highest-performing species. Biodiversity loss was nonrandom in the field, and because trios with two top performers sustained critical functions in the greenhouse, we predict that many functions will not decline, even if the salt marsh becomes dominated by a single species, e.g., S. virginica. Unmeasured functions (e.g., resilience) might not persist, however. Knowing how assemblages perform made biodiversityecosystem function theory both explanatory and predictive.
4134794|We compare the distribution of reproductive traits in woody vegetation of 10 wet tropical forests in northeastern Costa Rica. Based on quantitative sampling of seedlings, saplings, and trees, we assess whether particular sexual systems, pollination syndromes, or seed-dispersal modes are associated with successional stage, prior selective logging, woody growth forms, or patterns of abundance or rarity. We further examine the phylogenetic structure of these traits in the regional woody flora, testing explicit hypotheses regarding phylogenetic clustering of reproductive traits and habitat distributions. Animal dispersal and insect pollination predominate across all forest types and size classes. In second-growth trees, relative abundance of species with explosive dispersal, hermaphroditic flowers, and insect pollination is higher, and relative abundance of species with animal dispersal and mammal pollination is lower, compared to old-growth and logged forests. Overall, dioecy and wind dispersal are more frequent than expected in canopy trees, and hermaphroditic flowers are more frequent than expected in shrubs. Reproductive traits, growth-form traits, and relative abundance patterns show significant clustering within the supertree phylogeny. Patterns of trait distribution across forest types are closely linked with patterns of floristic composition at the genus and family level. Species-level associations among reproductive traits and woody growth form can be explained by phylogenetic correlations. Wind dispersal and hummingbird pollination are significantly concentrated in clades with hermaphroditic flowers, whereas wind pollination is concentrated in clades with unisexual flowers. Legacies of both phylogenetic history and forest disturbance structure the distribution of reproductive traits within and among tropical wet forest communities.
10.2307/2937172|Populations of certain mammal species and their predators show cyclic fluctuations in northern latitudes, and the amplitude of cycles in some cases increases towards the north. The evidence reviewed suggests that (1) abiotic factors and intrinsic mechanisms are unable to explain cycles; (2) quantity and quality of food resources of the herbivore population have important effects on population dynamics, although plant-herbivore interaction cannot explain the cycles by itself; (3) predation is another important factor for these populations, and probably essential for cyclicity of herbivore populations. A number of mathematical models have shown that prey-predator models can produce limit cycles, but they have not demonstrated that the cyclic fluctuations observed in natural populations can be explained by the mechanisms they incorporate and the parameters they define. In this study a mathematical model is developed to predict specific patterns of prey-predator cycles observed in nature with independently estimated parameters. This prey-predator model is based on the concept of @'ratio dependence@': the trophic functions (functional and numerical responses) are modeled as functions of prey-to-predator ratio rather than as functions of prey density only, as in traditional prey-predator models. This approach incorporates the concept of interference in a simple way by describing trophic interactions as functions of per capita resources. The parameters of the model are estimated from studies on the biology of cyclic lynx and hare populations, rather than by fitting timeseries data to the model. Parameters of the model give rise to limit cycles when they are changed in the way they are expected to change from south to north, which is consistent with the observations on the latitudinal patterns in cyclicity. The major quantitative prediction of the model is the cycle period. The period is predicted to be around 10 yr, which is the observed period of hare-lynx fluctuations.
10.2307/2937261|The mussel Mytilus californianus is a competitive dominant on wave-swept rocky intertidal shores. Mussel beds may exist as extensive monocultures; more often they are an everchanging mosaic of many species which inhabit wave-generated patches or gaps. This paper describes observations and experiments designed to measure the critical parameters of a model of patch birth and death, and to use the model to predict the spatial structure of mussel beds. Most measurements were made at Tatoosh Island, Washington, USA, from 1970-1979. Patch size ranged at birth from a single mussel to 38 m^2; the distribution of patch sizes approximates the lognormal. Birth rates varied seasonally and regionally. At Tatoosh the rate of patch formation varied during six winters from 0.4-5.4% of the mussels removed per month. The disturbance regime during the summer and at two mainland sites was 5-10 times less. Annual disturbance patterns tended to be synchronous within 11 sites on one face of Tatoosh over a 10-yr interval, and over larger distances (16 km) along the coastline. The pattern was asynchronous, however, among four Tatoosh localities. Patch birth rate, and mean and maximum size at birth can be used as adequate indices of disturbance. Patch disappearance (death) occurs by three mechanisms. Very small patches disappear almost immediately due to a leaning response of the border mussels (0.2 cm/d). Intermediate-sized patches (<3.0 m^2) are eventually obliterated by lateral movement of the peripheral mussels: estimates based on 94 experimental patches yield a mean shrinking rate of 0.05 cm/d from each of two principal dimensions. Depth of the adjacent mussel bed accounts for much of the local variation in closing rate. In very large patches, mussels must recruit as larvae from the plankton. Recovery begins at an average patch age of 26 mo; rate of space occupation, primarily due to individual growth, is 2.0-2.5%/mo. Winter birth rates suggest a mean turnover time (rotation period) for mussel beds varying from 8.1-34.7 yr, depending on the location. The minimal value is in close agreement with both observed and calculated minimal recovery times. Projections of total patch area, based on the model, are accurate to within 5% of the observed. Using a method for determining the age of patches, based on a growth curve of the barnacle Balanus cariosus, the model permits predictions of the age-size structure of the patch population. The model predicts with excellent resolution the distribution of patch area in relation to time since last disturbance. The most detailed models which include size structure within age categories are inconclusive due to small sample size. Predictions are food for large patches, the major determinants of environmental patterns, but cannot deal adequately with smaller patches because of stochastic effects. Colonization data are given in relation to patch age, size and intertidal position. We suggest that the reproductive season of certain long-lived, patch-dependent species is moulded by the disturbance regime. The necessary and vital connection between disturbance which generates spatial pattern and species richness in communities open to invasion is discussed.
10.2307/1942614|Community types were described from 209 stands in the alpine zone of the North Cascades Range. The maritime to continental climatic change from west to east has a profound effect on regional vegetation patterns. Most of the community types in the eastern North Cascades are closely related to those in the Rocky Mountains, southern Alaska and the southern Yukon whereas communities in the western North Cascades are more similar to communities in other west coast ranges. Soils in the region include Entisols, Inceptisols, and Spodosols. Physical properties are quite similar in most soils. Organic matter, total cation exchange capacity, and pH generally decrease from west to east while exchangeable cations and nutrient levels are low throughout the region. A fellfield-dry graminoid-mesic environmental gradient was examined on Grouse Ridge, Mt. Baker. High soil temperature and low soil moisture regimes were typical of the ridgetop fellfield. During drought periods, on the vegetated portion of the slope, soil temperatures decreased and soil moisture stress increased with distance downslope; a reflection of increased plant cover and greater evapotranspiration towards the base of the slope. Species at the base of the slope had reduced vigor and much lower leaf water potential than those upslope. Phenological patterns were closely related to date of snowmelt and early-season temperature regimes along the gradient.
10.2307/1942569|The Late-Wisconsin spruce forest that characterized most of Minnesota (and the rest of the Middle West) differed from the modern Boreal Forest of Canada not only in the absence of pine but also in the apparent admixture of black ash, oak, and elm and in the presence of openings in which Artemisia was abundant. Close-interval pollen analyses at 3 sites in Minnesota show some of the details in the transformation of this spruce forest to pine or hardwood forests. At Kirchner Marsh in southeastern Minnesota, the spruce forest was replaced abruptly about 10 000 yr ago birch, ald and temperate hardwoods before pine (jack pine?) entered the region for a short period. At Wolf Creek in central Minnesota, pine arrived from the east virtually at the moment when spruce declined. At Lake of the Clouds in northeastern Minnesota, spruce forest had succeeded tundra about 10 000 yr ago, but simultaneously pine (jack pine?) and the temperate hard woods (especially elm) appeared in quantity. The spruce and hardwood components then declined about 9300 yr ago as pine (red pine?) increased to dominance during the next 400 yr. Charcoal counts for the 3 sites provide no support for the hypothesis that increased fire incidence explains the forest transformation from spruce to pine. Climatic change must instead be the primary cause. The apparent openness of the spruce forest can be attributed to the continued presence of the wasting ice sheet just to the north, which favored a dry and windy climate, perhaps with relatively mild winters. As the ice sheet withdrew, its influence decreased. Differential rates of tree immigration as well as progressive leaching of upland soils may have been additional factors effecting changes in forest composition.
10.2307/2657225|The fitness of herbivores that have limited mobility as juveniles or larvae may often depend on the host choice behavior of adults. For such herbivores, selection should favor adults that choose plants that maximize the performance of their offspring, resulting in positive correlations across host plants among adult preferences, offspring performance (growth, survival, etc.), and for herbivores that are restricted to living on host plants, population-level parameters such as abundance on different hosts. We tested this hypothesis for the marine, nest-building amphipod Peramphithoe parmerong, using a series of behavioral and performance assays and relevant field data. Adults displayed strong preferences among eight species of brown algae in habitat choice assays, with Sargassum linearifolium and S. vestitum highly preferred; Colpomenia peregrina and Padina crassa of lower preference; and Dictyopteris acrostichoides, Dictyota dichotoma, Dilophus marginata, and Zonaria diesingiana consistently avoided. Juvenile amphipods were relatively immobile and, thus, mostly constrained to the host alga selected by their mother. Differences in the growth and survival of juvenile amphipods raised on single-species diets were consistent with adult nest-building preferences among algae, with the best performance on the two high-preference species of Sargassum. Thus, adult preferences for host plants largely determined juvenile performance due to (1) restricted movement by juveniles and (2) differences among algal species in their effects on growth, survival, and onset of reproduction. In contrast to host plant preferences by adults, feeding rates on different algae were not as clearly correlated with juvenile performance. In particular, the low-preference C. peregrina was consumed at a high rate, but survivorship on this alga was relatively poor. Differences in abundances of P. parmerong on different host algae in the field were consistent with laboratory preferences and not related to relative algal abundance or epiphyte loads, supporting the hypothesis that there were population-level consequences of host plant choice in this species. With regard to mechanisms underlying host use, amphipod preferences were closely (negatively) correlated with the presence of nonpolar secondary metabolites. Nonpolar crude extracts from nonhost species, all of which contain secondary metabolites, affected amphipod host acceptance behavior, whereas extracts from host species, all of which lack such metabolites, did not. Overall, host plant use was unrelated to the nutritional value of the algal species, but one low-preference host, C. peregrina, was notably nutritionally poor. These observations, and the correlations among adult preferences, offspring performance, and field densities for P. parmerong, are consistent with intrinsic host plant qualities determining host plant range for this species. This contrasts with previous studies that emphasized the importance of extrinsic factors, particularly predation, in determining amphipod host use.
10.2307/2937135|The aim of this research is to determine the response of the vegetation in coastal Maritime Canada to the Younger Dryas cooling event (@?10 800-10 000 ^1^4C yr BP) that interrupted the warming trend following the last glaciation. Detailed paleoecological studies were carried out on the organic, pollen, and plant macrofossil content of sediment cores recovered from six small lakes in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. Results show that there was regional variation in the vegetation response to the cooling. Records from Splan Pond, Mayflower Lake, and Little Lake show a change from boreal forest or woodland to shrub-tundra as a result of the cooling, while Lac a Magie shows floristic changes of shrub-tundra, and Chase Pond and Main-a-Dieu Pond show replacement of shrub-tundra by herb-tundra in response to the Younger Dryas. The climate warming signifying the end of the Younger Dryas caused succession from shrub-tundra to boreal forest, or from herb-tundra to shrub-tundra. Macrofossil evidence of arctic/alpine species such as Dryas integrifolia, Salix herbacea, and Cassiope hypnoides attests to the severity of the Younger Dryas cooling. Vegetation changes in response to the climate cooling and warming, marking the onset and termination of the Younger Dryas respectively, were very rapid, taking only 50-100 yr. However, the response of some taxa, such as dwarf birch, appears to have lagged the onset of the climate change by several decades, although the duration of the lag varies between sites.
23206686|There is a demand for mechanistic studies to explore underlying drivers behind observed patterns of biodiversity in urban areas. We describe a two-year field experiment in which we manipulated bottom-up (resource availability) and top-down (bird predation) forces on arthropod communities associated with a native plant, Encelia farinosa, across three land-use typesurban, desert remnant, and outlying natural desertin the Phoenix metropolitan area, Arizona, USA. We monitored the trophic structure, richness, and similarity of the arthropod communities on these manipulated plants over a two-year period. We predicted that (1) increased water resources increase plant productivity, (2) increased productivity increases arthropod abundances, and (3) in the urban habitat, top-down forces are greater than in other habitats and limit arthropod abundances. We also predicted that urban remnant habitats are more similar to urban habitats in terms of arthropod richness and composition. Strong interannual differences due to an unusual cold and dry winter in the first year suppressed plant growth in all but urban habitats, and arthropod abundances in all habitats were severely reduced. In the following year, arthropod abundances in desert and remnant habitats were higher than in urban habitats. Water had positive effects on plant growth and arthropod abundance, but these water effects emerged through complex interactions with habitat type and the presence/absence of cages used to reduce bird predation. Plants grew larger in urban habitats, and phenology also differed between urban and desert habitats. The results from caging suggest that bird predation may not be as important in cities as previously thought, and that arthropods may retard plant growth. As expected, desert communities are strongly bottom-up regulated, but contrary to predictions, we did not find evidence for strong top-down control in the city. Remnant habitats were intermediate between desert and urban habitats in terms of diversity, richness, evenness, arthropod composition and phenology, with urban habitats generally lowest in terms of diversity, richness, and evenness. Our study shows that control of biodiversity is strongly altered in urban areas, influenced by subtle shifts in top-down and bottom-up controls that are often superseded by climatic variations and habitat type.
10.2307/2937040|We used two co-occurring plant species of similar size and leaf morphology but with contrasting architecture to test if they would show specific patterns of leaf demography and leaf ecophysiology when they were grown in a range of experimental environments. Aster lanceolatus, a species with branched shoots, had exponentially increasing leaf populations. This led to high leaf turnover rates and to crowding of leaves at the top of the plants. Solidago canadensis, a species with unbranched shoots and rapid height growth, had linearly increasing populations of leaves, leading to a uniform vertical distribution of leaves and to lower leaf turnover rates. In comparison with the short-lived leaves of A. lanceolatus, the leaves of S. canadensis lived longer, contained more nitrogen and calcium per dry mass, and responded to changing light conditions within the plant crown by adjusting their angles towards the sun. Leaves of A. lanceolatus had an early peak in gas exchange activity followed by a rapid decline, whereas gas exchange activity in leaves of S. canadensis at the beginning of leaf development was lower than in A. lanceolatus but decreased only slightly with leaf age. Within the narrow vertical band in which leaves of A. lanceolatus were concentrated, young leaves at the top had higher mass per area, higher chlorophyll a/b ratios, and much higher rates of photosynthesis and conductance than the older leaves beneath. In S. canadensis, in which leaves were distributed over much of the vertical dimension along the plant, upper leaves, in contrast to lower (older) leaves, had lower mass per area, were held less perpendicular to the sun, and had higher rates of photosynthesis in high but not in low light. Because leaf populations grew exponentially in A. lanceolatus, assimilates could be re-invested; thus leaf number during the second half of the growing season was a good predictor of final biomass. In S. canadensis, with linearly growing leaf populations, the assimilates that were not re-invested in new leaves were allocated to the stem, and stem height or volume were good predictors of final biomass. Compared with the strong influence of architecture on the structure and dynamics of leaf populations, the effects of background species and fertilizer application were weak but nevertheless significant. Background species of similar aboveground mass but different stature (the tall Solidago altissima and the short Poa pratensis) affected leaf deployment (internode elongation, leaf orientation, and leaf survival), probably via competition for light, but not leaf quality (morphology, physiology) of the two target species A. lanceolatus and S. canadensis. Further, diameter-height allometries, which varied considerably among plants, tended to be flatter if the target species were grown in the tall than in the short background. Fertilizer application accelerated plant growth and phenological development. It increased light competition among leaves and leaf turnover; nevertheless, the photosynthetic water use efficiency of old leaves was higher in fertilized than in unfertilized plants. We suggest that the characteristic leaf dynamics of A. lanceolatus and S. canadensis are typical for the contrasting aboveground architectures these species represent. Based on the results of this and previous studies we suggest that an important driving force in the evolution of these complex adaptations is the degree of mixing within canopies of leaves of different plant genotypes. Leaves (and branches) are expected to be more autonomous if they frequently interact with leaves from other genotypes, as in the polyclonal patches of A. lanceolatus with its long and intermingling belowground rhizomes, than if they usually interact with leaves from the same genotype, as in the monoclonal patches of S. canadensis with its short rhizomes and compact belowground architecture.
23047057|One possible effect of climate change is the generation of a mismatch in the seasonal timing of interacting organisms, owing to species-specific shifts in phenology. Despite concerns that plants and pollinators might be at risk of such decoupling, there have been few attempts to test this hypothesis using detailed phenological data on insect emergence and flowering at the same localities. In particular, there are few data sets on pollinator flight seasons that are independent of flowering phenology, because pollinators are typically collected at flowers. To address this problem, we established standardized nesting habitat (trap nests) for solitary bees and wasps at sites along an elevational gradient in the Rocky Mountains, and monitored emergence during three growing seasons. We also recorded air temperatures and flowering phenology at each site. Using a reciprocal transplant experiment with nesting bees, we confirmed that local environmental conditions are the primary determinants of emergence phenology. We were then able to develop phenology models to describe timing of pollinator emergence or flowering, across all sites and years, as a function of accumulated degree-days. Although phenology of both plants and insects is well described by thermal models, the best models for insects suggest generally higher threshold temperatures for development or diapause termination than those required for plants. In addition, degree-day requirements for most species, both plants and insects, were lower in locations with longer winters, indicating either a chilling or vernalization requirement that is more completely fulfilled at colder sites, or a critical photoperiod before which degree-day accumulation does not contribute to development. Overall, these results suggest that phenology of plants and trap-nesting bees and wasps is regulated in similar ways by temperature, but that plants are more likely than insects to advance phenology in response to springtime warming. We discuss the implications of these results for plants and pollinators, and suggest that phenological decoupling alone is unlikely to threaten population persistence for most species in our study area.
4539094|The fate of individual plants is strongly influenced by their spatial context (e.g., their location relative to competitors or environmental gradients). Recent theoretical developments indicate that spatial structure in plant communities arises as an outcome of environmental heterogeneity, intra- and interspecific competition, and localized dispersal. Furthermore, each of these forces is predicted to leave a signature on the spatial and temporal pattern within the community. We track the development of spatial structure in successional grasslands in southern California for five years, using a series of large-scale field experiments. We compare the observed changes in spatial structure to the predictions of a spatially explicit model of plant competition in heterogeneous landscapes. We conclude that environmental heterogeneity led to the development of aggregation in the first year at scales of 1-2 m. Over time, aggregation was detectable at distances greater than 4 m, and species become segregated as a result of competition and localized dispersal. Large-scale disturbances (fire) homogenized the community by decreasing the level of aggregation and segregation. In contrast, disturbance by pocket gophers and ground squirrels increased local-scale heterogeneity by creating annual-dominated aggregates. The speed with which spatial structure develops in seemingly homogeneous environments illustrates the importance of incorporating spatial context in empirical studies and models of plant community dynamics.
10.2307/1942661|Pseudoreplication is defined as the use of inferential statistics to test for treatment effects with data from experiments where either treatments are not replicated (though samples may be) or replicates are not statistically independent. In ANOVA terminology, it is the testing for treatment effects with an error term inappropriate to the hypothesis being considered. Scrutiny of 176 experimental studies published between 1960 and the present revealed that pseudoreplication occurred in 27% of them, or 48% of all such studies that applied inferential statistics. The incidence of pseudoreplication is especially high in studies of marine benthos and small mammals. The critical features of controlled experimentation are reviewed. Nondemonic intrusion is defined as the impingement of chance events on an experiment in progress. As a safeguard against both it and preexisting gradients, interspersion of treatments is argued to be an obligatory feature of good design. Especially in small experiments, adequate interspersion can sometimes be assured only by dispensing with strict randomization procedures. Comprehension of this conflict between interspersion and randomization is aided by distinguishing pre-layout (or conventional) and layout-specific alpha (probability of type I error). Suggestions are offered to statisticians and editors of ecological journals as to how ecologists' understanding of experimental design and statistics might be improved.
43187596|Quantifying and assessing changes in biological diversity are central aspects of many ecological studies, yet accurate methods of estimating biological diversity from sampling data have been elusive. Hill numbers, or the effective number of species, are increasingly used to characterize the taxonomic, phylogenetic, or functional diversity of an assemblage. However, empirical estimates of Hill numbers, including species richness, tend to be an increasing function of sampling effort and, thus, tend to increase with sample completeness. Integrated curves based on sampling theory that smoothly link rarefaction (interpolation) and prediction (extrapolation) standardize samples on the basis of sample size or sample completeness and facilitate the comparison of biodiversity data. Here we extended previous rarefaction and extrapolation models for species richness (Hill number qD, where q = 0) to measures of taxon diversity incorporating relative abundance (i.e., for any Hill number qD, q > 0) and present a unified approach for both individual-based (abundance) data and samplebased (incidence) data. Using this unified sampling framework, we derive both theoretical formulas and analytic estimators for seamless rarefaction and extrapolation based on Hill numbers. Detailed examples are provided for the first three Hill numbers: q = 0 (species richness), q = 1 (the exponential of Shannon's entropy index), and q = 2 (the inverse of Simpson's concentration index). We developed a bootstrap method for constructing confidence intervals around Hill numbers, facilitating the comparison of multiple assemblages of both rarefied and extrapolated samples. The proposed estimators are accurate for both rarefaction and short-range extrapolation. For long-range extrapolation, the performance of the estimators depends on both the value of q and on the extrapolation range. We tested our methods on simulated data generated from species abundance models and on data from large species inventories. We also illustrate the formulas and estimators using empirical data sets from biodiversity surveys of temperate forest spiders and tropical ants.
10.2307/2657195|Large areas of semiarid grasslands in the southwestern United States have been virtually replaced by shrubs during the past century. Understanding the causes and consequences of such vegetation dynamics requires that we elucidate the interplay between external forces of change (e.g., climate, human impacts) and the internal forces within these ecosystems that foster resilience and/or stability. Several conceptual models of arid ecosystems address this interplay by including the potential role of autogenic shrub effects on ecosystem processes, which lead to the formation of "resource islands" and tend to promote shrub persistence. Specifically, during the process of shrub establishment and maturation, the cycling of nutrients is progressively confined to the zones of litter accumulation beneath shrubs, while bare intershrub spaces become increasingly nutrient poor. As shrub resource islands develop, there is increased interception and stemflow by shrub canopies, confining infiltration of nutrient-enriched rainfall directly beneath the shrubs; the barren intershrub spaces generate overland flow, soil erosion by wind and water, and nutrient losses. These islands are preferred sites for the regeneration of shrubs and herbaceous plants and are correlated with spatial variation in soil microbial populations and soil microfauna that promote nutrient cycling. If further changes in the transition between grassland and shrubland are to be correctly predicted-or if we wish to intervene and redirect transitions-we must develop a greater mechanistic understanding of the structural and functional relationships between shrubs and the resource islands associated with them. We conducted a 3-yr field study in the Jornada Basin of southern New Mexico to explore the relationships between seasonal manipulations of soil water and its impact on soil nutrient dynamics of resource islands and shrub growth and physiology. At our study site, where total annual precipitation is 230 mm (65% falls during the summer period), we simulated seasonal drought in summer (1 June-30 September) and winter/spring (1 October-31 May) by constructing large rainfall-exclusion shelters over shrub resource islands at different stages of development. Our experiment tests two principal hypotheses. The first is that the two major shrub species in the Jornada Basin, creosotebush (Larrea tridentata) and mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa), have different growth phenologies, rooting patterns, and physiological responses to resource availability (primarily water). The second is that different size classes of shrubs ("small" and "large") represent distinct stages of resource island development (i.e., "young" and "mature," respectively) and, hence, different stabilities-that is, as islands develop, their associated shrubs become less coupled to short-term fluctuations in precipitation and more resistant to long-term drought or climate shifts. With regard to the first hypothesis, we conclude that the two species are relatively similar in function despite the different phenological "strategies" of Larrea (evergreen) and Prosopis (winter deciduous). In the absence of drought, both species exhibited maximal rates of shoot and root growth, as well as high photosynthesis and transpiration, in late spring. This remained as the period for maximal growth and physiological activity for Prosopis shrubs that experienced drought in either summer or winter/spring. On the other hand, Larrea shrubs that experienced drought in winter/spring had maximal growth and activity shifted to the summer period, and in the absence of drought, Larrea shrubs also exhibited high physiological activity during the summer (especially following high rainfall). Thus, Larrea appears to have a greater capacity for shifting its activity patterns to alternate periods to take advantage of changes in resource availability. Shrubs of both species appeared well adapted to withstand season-long droughts. Mechanisms for survival include the following capacities: (1) to shift growth and physiological activity to utilize different temporal moisture (Larrea); (2) to utilize different levels of soil water (both species); (3) to carry out limited physiological activity and growth during drought (especially Larrea); and (4) to compensate for some negative impacts of drought through enhanced physiology (especially Prosopis) and growth (especially Larrea) in the season following drought. With regard to the second hypothesis, we again found more similarities than differences between the different aged (young vs. mature) islands. The stage of maturity of a resource island complex did not seem to be a significant factor to the growth and physiological activity of the shrub.
27646122|Understory vegetation plays a critical role in boreal ecosystems. Despite this, quantitative evaluation of the factors controlling understory vegetation abundance, diversity, and composition in the most diverse boreal forest region in North America is lacking. This study examined the dynamics of understory vegetation of stands of fire origin and tested effects of overstory composition and logging vs. fire on the understory vegetation dynamics in Ontario, Canada. Understory vegetation communities were sampled in 68 stands of conifer, mixed-wood, and deciduous overstory type ranging from 7 to 201 years postfire for stands of fire origin, and from 7 to 31 years for stands of logging origin. For stands of fire origin, total cover and species richness followed similar trends for the three overstory types and were highest in the intermediate-aged stands (7290 years). Trends in cover and richness, however, differed significantly for vascular and nonvascular plant groups. Vascular cover and species richness were generally higher under deciduous stands, and lower on older stands, while nonvascular species richness was highest under conifer stands and increased with time since fire. Neither species richness nor compositional turnover was higher under mixed-wood stands; mixed-wood stands were compositionally intermediate to conifer and deciduous stands. Multivariate analysis using multiple-response permutation procedures indicated that understory communities were compositionally distinct for all overstory types and showed no convergence with increasing time since fire. Compared with postfire stands of similar ages, post-logged stands had similar total understory cover and richness. Vascular cover and richness, however, were higher on post-logged stands, and nonvascular cover and richness were lower. Stands of logging and fire origin were compositionally distinct for all overstory types and ages. Compositional differences appeared to be driven by higher preestablished rhizomatous species and few pyrophilic species on post-logged sites. Understory vegetation communities in the central boreal shield appear to support the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. Understory richness, however, was not negatively associated with high cover values as predicted by the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. Moreover, richness appears to be highest on sites with high light availability, suggesting that boreal understory communities are influenced more by plant tolerances for low resources, rather than by competition.
10.2307/2937265|Experimental tests of the equilibrium theory of insular biogeography with the terrestrial arthropod fauna of small islands in Northwest Florida are described. Six islets composed of pure Spartina alterniflora (area: 56 m^2 to 1023 m^2; distance from mainland: 29 m to 1752 m) were defaunated with methyl bromide gas after intensive, inclusive censuses of their terrestrial arthropod inhabitants. Two additional islands and a large S. alterniflora stand on the mainland were not defaunated and served as controls. The recolonization process was monitored by weekly nonlethal censuses of all the sites. Four large cages were placed over other, similar, islands to determine the persistence of populations trapped inside the cages in the absence of immigration. In addition, six traps located in the study area showed the general movement patterns of arthropods. A distinction was made between transient and resident species colonizing the islands based partly upon 3 previous yr of data on the arthropod communities of the area. Recolonization of the defaunated islands was rapid. Allowing for seasonal variations typical of the area, the defaunated islands attained a species richness corresponding to the predefaunation levels in approximately 20 wk and oscillated about that level for the rest of the 53-wk experimental period. Extinction probabilities were inversely correlated with area, and immigration rates during the first 20 wk after defaunation were positively correlated with area. Extinctions and immigrations occurred at low levels following week 20, indicating turnover at approximately 0.14 species/wk. No statistically significant effect of isolation on island immigration rates could be demonstrated. Numbers of species collected on the traps were significantly affected by distance from the nearest large land mass and trap orientation. Only area proved to be significantly correlated with insular species numbers.
43187889|All living organisms modify their biotic and abiotic environment. Niche construction theory posits that organism-mediated modifications to the environment can change selection pressures and influence the evolutionary trajectories of natural populations. While there is broad support for this proposition in general, there is considerable uncertainty about how niche construction is related to other similar concepts in ecology and evolution. Comparative studies dealing with certain aspects of niche construction are increasingly common, but there is a troubling lack of experimental tests of the core concepts of niche construction theory. Here, we propose an operational framework to evaluate comparative and experimental evidence of the evolutionary consequences of niche construction, and suggest how such research can improve our understanding of ecological and evolutionary dynamics in ecosystems. We advocate for a shift toward explicit experimental tests of how organismmediated environmental change can influence the selection pressures underlying evolutionary responses, as well as targeted field-based comparative research to identify the mode of evolution by niche construction and assess its importance in natural populations.
10.2307/1943072|A shallow, 5.4-ha dystrophic Carolina bay wetland was studied between 1974 and 1978 to test the premise that biomass and production are constrained by the stagnant hydrology and dilute, acidic chemistry of bay wetlands. Our objectives were to evaluate: (1) surface and subsurface hydrology, (2) sources of production, (3) community change along a depth gradient, and (4) seasonal community patterns. The hydrology study compared surface water levels to groundwater levels in four adjacent wells. A cylinder enclosure and total harvest procedure and 24-h dissolved oxygen curves were used for 2 yr in a 1-ha sampling area to measure spatial and temporal biomass patterns and organic production of community components. Surface hydrology was dependent on seasonal and annual precipitation patterns. Lateral, episodic groundwater exchanges accounted for the dilute surface chemistry and apparent differences in surface gains and losses. Substrate exposure and fire oxidation in dry years promoted low detritus standing crops and a dark, clay-loam mineral soil. A depth gradient, marked by a peripheral grass/sedge zone and central water-lily zone, produced strong spatial patterns for most community components. Aquatic macrophytes had low shoot biomass and a high root to shoot ratio. Algae were light limited and even less productive. Purple photosynthetic bacteria approached algal productivity levels and may have important chemistry and trophic support functions. As predicted from the stagnant, dystrophic conditions, autotroph biomass and production were low. However, the warm climate and periodic fire rejuvenation may stimulate higher production than that generally found in northern bog wetlands. Secondary production was also low. Animal biomass was dominated by insects (especially odonates) and salamanders. High turnover of prey (largely midge larvae and microcrustaceans) was implied by the predator-dominated community structure. This study of a wetland ecosystem lacking several common dystrophic bog features (peat deposit, high dissolved organic matter, acidophilic mosses) enlarges our perspective of the dystrophic condition.
10.2307/1942336|The synecology of tree species was studied in a mature second-growth forest in the Hubbard Brook ecosystem. The forest, on a 13-ha undisturbed watershed ecosystem covering a 245-m range of elevation, has a basal area of about 23 m^2ha^-^1. Dominance is shared by Acer saccharum, Fagus grandifolia, and Betula alleghaniensis. Direct gradient analysis and regression analysis indicated a strong response in both stand and species characteristics to an elevational complex gradient. Basal area per hectare, basal area per tree, deciduousness, and canopy height decreased with increasing elevation, whereas density, evergreenness, and species diversity increased. A lower rate of net primary productivity is correlated with higher elevations. Gradient analyses indicated that no two tree species have identical patterns of importance values over the elevational complex gradient. Sugar maple shows a decreasing trend; balsam fir, paper birch, and mountain ash show increasing trends. Beech, red spruce, mountain maple, and striped maple show intermediate patterns. Seedlings and saplings respond to the elevational gradient as do larger trees; however, the behavior of trees, seedlings, and saplings of the same species is clearly different. The Hubbard Brook ecosystem is located in relation to the vegetational zonation systems of earlier authors. The only generally agreed upon vegetational boundary, ca. 760 m (2,500 ft), is accounted for by a steepened rate of environmental change in the vicinity of that elevation. Various lines of evidence indicate that the present second-growth forest at Hubbard Brook approximates old-age mature northern hardwood forest. Therefore, the biogeochemical, productivity, and ecological data obtained from this study are representative of a mature ecosystem in dynamic balance with regional and local controlling factors, i.e., climate, geology, and topography.
4539102|Disturbances influence forest dynamics across a range of spatial and temporal scales. In tropical forests most studies have focused on disturbances occurring at small spatial and temporal scales (i.e., gap dynamics). This is primarily due to the difficulty of reconstructing long-term disturbance histories of forests in which most tree species lack annual growth rings. Consequently, the role of past disturbances in tropical forests is poorly understood. We used a combination of direct and indirect methods to reconstruct the historical disturbance regime and stand development patterns in mature and regenerating seasonal dry evergreen forest (SDEF) in the Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuary in western Thailand. Direct estimates of long-term establishment and growth patterns were obtained from 12 tree species that form annual growth rings as a consequence of the region's strong intra-annual rainfall seasonality. Indirect estimates of establishment patterns were obtained from analyses of stand structure and individual tree architecture and application of age-estimation models to 10 dominant canopy-tree species using demographic data from a large-scale, permanent forest-dynamics plot. The combination of direct and indirect methodologies revealed a complex disturbance history in the seasonal evergreen forest over the past 250 years. In the mid-1800s, 200-300 ha of forest were destroyed by a catastrophic disturbance, which led to the synchronous establishment of many of the trees that presently dominate the forest canopy. Since then widespread disturbances of variable intensity have occurred at least three times (1910s, 1940s, and 1960s). These disturbances created discrete temporal pulses of establishment in small to large gaps in the forest matrix across several square kilometers. Background mortality and gap formation were evident in every decade since 1790, but these varied in intensity and frequency. The SDEF retains a distinct structural and floristic legacy from the catastrophic disturbance of the mid-1800s. The single-age cohort that established after the disturbance has developed a complex three-dimensional structure as a consequence of differences in interspecific growth patterns of the canopy-tree species and subsequent disturbances of moderate and low intensity. While no single methodological approach provided a complete picture of the disturbance history and stand development patterns of the seasonal evergreen forest, taken together they offered new insights into the long-term dynamics of a primary tropical forest. In particular, the study highlighted the role of disturbance at multiple spatial and temporal scales and varying intensities in determining the structure and composition of a complex, species-rich tropical forest and raises important questions about the role of rare, catastrophic events on tropical forest dynamics.
10.2307/2937234|With the exception of a recently discovered rare species, the gastropod genus Conus is represented only by Conus miliaris at Easter Island, and isolated outpost of the Indo-West Pacific (IWP) marine biota probably <2.5 million yr old. Throughout most of the IWP region. C. miliaris co-occurs with 4-23 congeners on marine benches and coral reefs. Compared with these central populations, Easter Island C. miliaris (1) is more abundant in favorable habitats, (2) utilizes different habitat and food resources, and (3) is ecologically released with respect to food and probably depth range, but not microhabitat. Most striking, the major prey species (Onuphis sp.; 31% of the diet) belongs to a family of polychaetes not known to be exploited by any Conus species elsewhere. In all, 6 species of polychaetes eaten rarely or not at all by C. miliaris elsewhere comprise 77% of its diet at Easter Island. Sixteen prey species are eaten at Easter Island (vs. 2-8 in central IWP localities) and prey species diversity measured by the H' statistic is 2.0 vs. 0.2-1.3. Shifts to larger prey species with increasing size of C. miliaris account for some of the high prey diversity, but analysis of multiple feedings revealed that 68% of such individuals had eaten polychaetes of 2 or more species. Several polychaete species that C. miliaris preys on the Easter Island but not elsewhere are important components of the diets of other Conus species in the central IWP. Some of the ecological expansion of C. miliaris at Easter Island is thus directed toward resources that absent congeners would be expected to utilize were they present, or if they should colonize the island in the future. It is suggested that the virtual absence of congeneric species and increased intraspecific competition in dense populations at Easter Island have selected for the observed ecological expansion.
10.2307/1942464|There are two alternate community states in the rocky subtidal of the Atlantic coast of Nova Scotia, an unproductive sea urchin/coralline alga community, and highly productive kelp beds dominated by Laminaria longicruris. Disease-induced mortality of the sea urchins (Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis) triggered a switch from the first state to the second and provided a unique opportunity to study (1) the ability of L. longicruris to recover its former dominant status, and (2) its stability when competing with other seaweeds and when perturbed by storms and grazers other than urchins. Rates of recolonization of L. longicruris depended on the proximity of a refugial source of spores. When reproductive plants were nearby, a closed canopy developed within 18 mo of urchin mortality. When a reproductive population was several kilometres away, there was sparse recolonization for 3 yr, then a massive recruitment occurred with closure of the canopy in the 4th yr. Laminaria is clearly the competitive dominant in the seaweed community. Manipulative experiments showed that the kelp limits the abundance of several understory species, but there was no evidence that the abundant annual seaweeds limited kelp recruitment. When sea urchins were rare, the density and growth rates of Laminaria were influenced mostly by intraspecific competition. When the canopy of adult plants was removed there was a dramatic increase in kelp recruitment, but the recruits that grew in dense patches in the clearings were significantly smaller than those of a similar age that grew more sparsely beneath the canopy. Once the kelp recovered from destructive grazing and formed a mature forest, it was able to maintain its dominance, even in habitats subject to severe nutrient stress for 8 mo of the year. For most of the year mortality and erosion of laminae outweighed the effects of recruitment and growth, and the canopy declined, especially during winter when storms were frequent. Erosion was exacerbated by grazing of the gastropod Lacuna vincta. However, in late winter and early spring, recruitment and rapid growth restored the canopy. When severe storm damage was simulated by completely removing Laminaria in patches, the kelp rapidly recolonized and soon outgrew other seaweeds. Unlike the competitive dominants in kelp bed systems in the northeast Pacific, L. longicruris in Nova Scotia manifests multiple patterns of adaptation that enable it to dominate early and late stages of succession in a range of habitats of different levels of nutrient stress and of disturbance from storms and grazers. The principal threat to the stability of the kelp beds is destructive grazing by sea urchins. We suggest that the considerable differences between the dynamics of kelp beds in Nova Scotia and those of the northeast Pacific, and the high degree of stability of L. longicruris stands in Nova Scotia, is attributable to the low diversity of kelps and therefore low levels of competition in Nova Scotia, and to the multiple adaptations of L. longicruris that enable it to tolerate several stresses and disturbances. We argue that the dynamics of community organization, and therefore the stability properties of this system are determined primarily by biological interactions and not by physical variables. This differs from the kelp communities in the northeast Pacific, in which both biological and physical factors influence dynamics significantly at a primary level. We offer a qualitative model of the dynamics of community structure in Nova Scotia that may be viewed as a set of deterministic @'subroutines,@' in which each subroutine describes the outcome of a particular biological interaction. The subroutine(s) that predominate at one point in time and space are probably determined mostly by physical hydrographic variables that have a large stochastic component.
10.2307/2937074|Changes in species composition and abundance of birds breeding in an unfragmented temperate deciduous forest in New Hampshire, USA, were studied intensively during 16 consecutive breeding seasons, 1969-1984. The number of species breeding in the 10-ha study area in any one year varied from 17 to 28, and averaged 24. Total numbers of individuals breeding on the 10-ha plot ranged from 214 to 89, with many species (70%) declining during the 16-yr period. Overall, there was significant positive covariation among population trends of all species, suggesting a major, perhaps single, factor affecting population levels, such as weather or food supply. No two species, however, had identical patterns of change across all 16 yr. Thus, populations in this forest fluctuated largely independently of one another, suggesting a different combination of regulatory factors for each species. The major factors pulsing or stressing bird populations in the field included: (1) changes in food abundance due largely to irruptions of defoliating Lepidoptera (most bird species, but especially vireos and warblers), (2) harsh late spring and summer weather (Scarlet Tanager, American Redstart), (3) changes in habitat structure related to forest succession (Least Flycatcher, Philadelphia Vireo), (4) interspecific interactions, particularly interference competition (Least Flycatcher-American Redstart, Red-eyed Vireo-Philadelphia Virreo), and (5) mortality during winter for both resident and migrant populations (Hermit Thrush, Dark-eyed Junco, permanent resident species such as woodpeckers and nuthatches. Some, but not all, irruptions of defoliating Lepidoptera significantly influenced many bird populations in this forest and contributed to the observed positive covariation in abundances. These irruptions produced pulses of food for breeding birds, but occurred at long and variable time intervals. Between outbreaks, food may regularly limit reproductive output of these forest birds, and low food abundance, along with the effects of predators, weather, and other mortality factors, contributes to high variability in bird reproductive success, which ultimately influences population size. Competition may also become important during these periods of food scarcity. We therefore propose that birds in these temperate deciduous forests experience periods of prolonged food limitation, interrupted by relatively brief periods of superabundant food, a pattern contrasting with that described for other temperate systems (e.g., by Wiens 1977). From this examination of bird community dynamics on one site over many years, it is apparent that each species responds to its environment in a unique way, as determined by a variety of influences on its populations. Some of these operate on a local scale (e.g., vegetation structure, food abundance, interspecific competitors), while others function at regional (e.g., some weather effects) and global (e.g., winter events) geographic scales. These influences also differ as to their temporal persistence and predictability, and thus are difficult to detect in short-term studies. This pluralistic view of community structure for birds in temperate forests represents a compromise between nonequilibrial and competitionist models, and argues against the existence of a tightly organized community at any one spatial or temporal scale.
4539118| The southernmost spruce-lichen woodlands in the Parc des Grands-Jardins, Qubec, Canada, are situated 500 km south of their usual range in the northern lichen woodland zone. Their co-occurrence within a spruce-moss forest matrix suggests the existence of alternative stable states. We investigate the possibility of these spruce-lichen woodlands as an alternative stable state along with the factors contributing to their origin and spatiotemporal distribution. Analysis of plant macrofossils, charcoal, head capsules of defoliating insects, and pollen were used along with vegetation surveys to reconstruct the past and present disturbance dynamics along an east-west transect, corresponding to a precipitation and fire frequency gradient. At each site, spruce budworm head capsules were found preceding the charcoal layer delineating the shift to spruce-lichen woodland, demonstrating the compound disturbance (insect-fire) origin of the lichen woodlands. Moss forests previously occupied all lichen woodland sites, with the oldest record starting ca. 8300-9400 yr BP. A change to a higher fire frequency around 2500 yr BP was evident in the lichen woodland zone of the park. A lower fire frequency west of the lichen woodland zone likely is a result of orographic precipitation. While the spruce budworm affects the entire region, lichen woodlands are found exclusively within an increased fire frequency zone. Thus, it is the superimposition of these two disturbance factors that is responsible both for their creation and spatial distribution. Lichen woodland inception dates range between 580 and 1440 yr BP, demonstrating that these lichen woodlands have maintained their open structure with time and have not transformed into closed forests. Their persistence, along with their previous moss forest histories and current occurrence adjacent to closed moss forests, indicate that they are an alternative stable state to the spruce-moss forests and not a successional stage. In contrast to other examples of reported alternative stable states, this one is a result of natural disturbances inherent to the system and not anthropogenic impacts. 
23596910|Using a combination of computer simulations and laboratory experiments we test if the thermal sensitivity of growth rates change during ontogeny in damselfly larvae and if these changes can be predicted based on the natural progression of average temperature or thermal variability in the field. The laboratory experiment included replicated species from Southern, Central, and Northern Europe. Although annual fluctuations in temperature represent a key characteristic of temperate environments, few studies of thermal performance have considered the ecological importance of the studied traits within a seasonal context. Instead, thermal performance is assumed to remain constant throughout ontogeny and to reflect selection acting over the whole life cycle. The laboratory experiment revealed considerable variation among species in the strength and direction of ontogenetic performance shifts. In four species from Southern and Central Europe, reaction norms were steepest during early ontogeny, becoming less steep during later ontogenetic stages (indicative of low-temperature acclimation). In one Northern European species, the slope of reaction norms did not change during ontogeny. In the other North European species, reaction norms became steeper during ontogeny (indicative of high-temperature acclimation). We had expected high-latitude species to show strong low-temperature acclimation responses, because they have a short flight season and inhabit a strongly seasonal environment. Instead, we found the reversed pattern: Low-latitude species displayed strong low-temperature acclimation responses, and high-latitude species displayed weak, or even reversed, acclimation responses to low temperatures. These findings suggest that low-temperature acclimation may be less beneficial and possibly more costly in habitats with rapid seasonal transitions in average temperature. We conclude that thermal performance traits are more dynamic than typically assumed and caution against using results from single ontogenetic stages to predict species' responses to changing environmental conditions.
10.2307/1942632|In the Australian arid zone, the species richness of ants is greater and that of mammalian grainvores is less than in North American deserts. This study aimed to determine if the structure of harvester ant communities differs from that seen in North American deserts, focussing on differences related to the paucity of rodents. We tested three hypotheses: (1) because there are fewer rodents, Australian harvester ants should be more abundant and diverse in local habitats than in North American deserts of similar productivity; (2) because the absence of rodents would allow ants to use larger seeds that are preferred by rodents in North America, Australian ant communities should include a larger size range and contain larger workers; and (3) that apart from differences resulting from a paucity of rodents, Australian and North American communities would be convergent in characteristics of community structure resulting from competition. We sampled 19 communities across a climatic gradient in the Australian arid zone and compared the results with data previously obtained for 10 North American communities. Australian harvester ants exhibited similar alpha (within-habitat) diversity but higher beta (between-habitat) diversity between communities. Australian and North American communities were similar in species richness, species diversity, numbers of common species, and abundance of ants, although Australian communities tended to be richer and more diverse at sites with lower precipitation. North American communities increased in species richness, diversity, numbers of common species, and proportions of column-foraging species with increasing precipitation. In contrast, Australian communities did not change regularly across a gradient in precipitation. Thus, the first hypothesis was rejected. The second hypothesis was also rejected because Australian harvester ants were smaller, covered a smaller size range, and tended to be more tightly distributed along the size gradient. Dietary data indicated a lack of correspondence between resource use and availability, suggesting that Australian communities may not generally be in equilibrium with their resource environment. However, neither of the first two hypotheses could be tested unequivocally because it remains possible that evolutionary interaction between seeds and ants in the absence of rodents has allowed seeds to adopt defenses minimizing consumption by ants, or that other granivores (particularly birds) compensate in part for the paucity of rodents. Tests of the third hypothesis were ambiguous. Some results suggest basic similarities between the effects of competition on the communities, such as the similar maximum values for abundance, richness, and species diversity. However, several attributes of Australian communities differed from those in North America: foraging occurred over a wider range of soil temperatures; temporal displacement of foraging among coexisting species was prominent; and individually foraging species occurred with equal frequency across climatic gradients. We discuss various biotic and abiotic features that may explain differences in community structure between continents. We conclude that the paucity of rodents, a potentially competing group of granivores, has not led to predictable changes in harvester ant communities of arid Australia.
23596918|A predictive understanding of the ecological impacts of nonnative species has been slow to develop, owing largely to an apparent dearth of clearly defined hypotheses and the lack of a broad theoretical framework. The context dependency of impact has fueled the perception that meaningful generalizations are nonexistent. Here, we identified and reviewed 19 testable hypotheses that explain temporal and spatial variation in impact. Despite poor validation of most hypotheses to date, evidence suggests that each can explain at least some impacts in some situations. Several hypotheses are broad in scope (applying to plants and animals in virtually all contexts) and some of them, intriguingly, link processes of colonization and impact. Collectively, these hypotheses highlight the importance of the functional ecology of the nonnative species and the structure, diversity, and evolutionary experience of the recipient community as general determinants of impact; thus, they could provide the foundation for a theoretical framework for understanding and predicting impact. Further substantive progress toward this goal requires explicit consideration of within-taxon and across-taxa variation in the per capita effect of invaders, and analyses of complex interactions between invaders and their biotic and abiotic environments.
27646166|We tested four predictions for central-place foragers provisioning offspring along a gradient in primary production spanning 1000 km of coastline in Argentina, using male Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus). Three of the predictions were supported. (1) Foraging trip distances corresponded with the production gradient; penguins swam shorter distances (mean maximum distance: 60110 km) at the southern colonies where production is higher and prey species aggregate nearshore, and longer distances (143242 km) at the northern colonies where production is lower and prey species aggregate at offshore fronts. Within these broad regions, foraging locations coincided with tidal mixing fronts or high chlorophyll concentrations. (2) Foraging trips followed a pattern of intermediate speed and meandering when outbound (32% of locations at sea), slow meandering movements within the foraging areas (45%), and very fast and direct returns to the colony (23%). Regardless of how far they went, penguins spent the most time at the outer limits of their trips, and travel speed slowed there, consistent with foraging. In 54% of trips, penguins left foraging patches between 15:00 and 21:00 hours, presumably with full loads for chicks. Returning penguins swam up to 173 km/d (2 m/s), swimming day and night and arriving at all hours to feed chicks. (3) Penguins stayed longer in more distant than closer foraging areas, presumably to feed themselves to recover the increased cost of swimming. One prediction was not supported. (4) Following a long trip, penguins did not meander more on their next outbound trip. Most penguins returned repeatedly to the same area to forage or alternated between two areas. Overall, penguin foraging patterns reflected patterns of oceanographic production, making them important sentinels of environmental variation.
10.2307/3100097|The geomorphic effectiveness of extreme floods increases with aridity and decreasing watershed size. Therefore, in small dry watersheds extreme floods should control the age structure and spatial distribution of populations of disturbance-dependent riparian trees. We examined the influence of extreme floods on the bottomland morphology and forest of ephemeral streams in a semiarid region. Along six stream reaches on the Colorado Piedmont we examined channel changes by analyzing a rectified sequence of aerial photographs spanning 56 yr, and we investigated the spatial distribution of different-aged patches of forest by aging 189 randomly sampled cottonwood trees. Channel change in these ephemeral sand-bed streams is dominated by widening, which occurs over a span of hours during infrequent floods, and postflood narrowing, which occurs over decades between floods. Narrowing is accelerated where reliable moisture increases the density and growth rate of vegetation on the former bed. Reproduction of cottonwood trees has occurred mostly in former channel bed during periods of channel narrowing beginning after floods in 1935 and 1965 and continuing for as long as two decades. Thus cottonwood establishment is related to low flows at the time scale of a year, but to high flows at the time scale of decades. At sites that have not experienced major floods in the last 80 yr, little channel change has occurred, cottonwood reproduction has been limited, tree density has declined, and succession to grassland is occurring. Because channel change and tree reproduction in this region are driven by infrequent local events, channel width and tree age distributions vary greatly over time and among sites. For the same reason, riparian forests along these ephemeral streams can be as wide as forests along perennial rivers with much higher mean discharge.
10.2307/1942541|In cloud forest at Monteverde, Costa Rica, I investigated the reproductive consequences of avian seed dispersal for three species of gap-dependent plants: Phytolacca rivinoides (Phytolaccaceae), Witheringia solanacea, and W. coccoloboides (Solanaceae). Of six bird species that consumed fruits of these plants, only three (Myadestes melanops [Muscicapidae], Phainoptila melanoxantha [Ptilogonatidae], and Semnornis frantzii [Capitonidae]), dispersed seeds in viable condition. Other species discarded most seeds before swallowing fruit pulp, or destroyed seeds in the gut. I estimated the quality of dispersal service provided by the @'legitimate@' disperser species by comparing the seed shadows they produced with the spatial and temporal distributions of establishment sites for the plants. I estimated seed shadows from data on gut passage rates of seeds and on movement patterns of radio-tracked birds. Seed shadows produced by all three effective dispersers were extensive, with few seeds deposited near the parent plant, and some seeds moved >500 m. Seeds of the species examined establish in forest gaps formed by treefalls or landslides. Establishment success varies with gap size and age, but the relationship is different for each species; both Witheringia species establish well in gaps as small as 15 m^2 or as old as 6 mo, whereas P. rivinoides establishes well only in gaps >70 m^2 or <4 mo old. Consequently, establishment sites for all three plants are both rare and ephemeral, but to differing degrees. Seeds that are not dispersed to suitable habitat patches can remain dormant in the soil until a gap is formed overhead; seed dormancy experiments showed no significant decrease in viability of seeds buried for up to 27 mo. To determine consequences of dispersal and dormancy for plant reproductive success, I developed a simulation model that uses data on seed shadows, germination requirements, seed dormancy, and forest dynamic processes to estimate reproductive output (total offspring produced during an individual plant's lifetime) and relative @'fitness@' (an estimator that discounts the contribution of offspring produced after a long period of dormancy). Results show that (1) dispersal by any of the three legitimate dispersers increases reproductive output 16-36 times, even without seed dormancy. (2) Dormancy capabilities up to 2 yr enhance both reproductive output and @'fitness,@' but greater capabilities increase only reproductive output. (3) Without dispersal, dormancy has little effect on either reproductive output or fitness. Thus, both dispersal and dormancy (@'dispersal@' in time) are essential to these gap-dependent plants, but long-term seed dormancy may be relatively unimportant.
10.2307/2937101|This paper presents the results of a 5-yr field study on the determinants of individual variation in maternal fecundity (seed production) in the narrowly endemic violet Viola cazorlensis (Violaceae), at a southeastern Spanish locality. Flowers of this species are characterized by a very long, thin spur and broad morphological variability, and are pollinated by a single species of day-flying hawk moth (Macroglossum stellatarum; Lepidoptera, Sphingidae). The primary aim of this investigation was to answer the question, What are the relative importances, as explanations of individual differences in fecundity, of variability in floral traits and of other fecundity determinants that are of an extrinsic nature, such as microhabitat type and interactions with herbivores? The floral morphology of individual V. cazorlensis plants was characterized by means of both @'conventional,@' linear measurements of the size of flower parts (petals, spur, peduncle), and shape analysis of corolla outline (using thin-plate splines relative warps analysis). Spatial (among substrate types) and temporal (among years) patterns of variation in flower, fruit, and seed production by V. cazorlensis plants are described, with particular emphasis on the comparative effects of floral morphology, herbivory (by mammalian ungulates and two species of lepidopteran larvae), and substrate type (rock cliffs, bare rocks at ground level, and sandy soils), on cumulative seed production at the individual plant level. Cumulative seed production of individual V. cazorlensis plants depended significantly on average floral morphology (both size and shape components), thus revealing the existence of phenotypic selection on the floral morphology of this species at the study population. Among all the floral traits examined, spur length was the only one for which no significant relationship with fecundity was found. Type of substrate largely determined differences between V. cazorlensis plants in the impact of herbivory (plants growing on the soil exhibited the greatest reproductive losses to herbivores), and it also influenced plant size and flower production per reproductive episode. Plant size, in turn, influenced the supra-annual frequency of flowering and the number of flowers produced in each reproductive event. Flower production and herbivory levels significantly influenced (positively and negatively, respectively) fruit number, which was the major direct determinant of seed production. Path analysis revealed that the main determinants of individual variation in cumulative seed production over the study period were, in decreasing order of importance (absolute value of @'effect coefficient@' in parentheses), cumulative fruit production (0.946), mean flower production per reproductive event (0.868), plant size (0.441), herbivory by ungulates (-0.221), and average score on the first relative warp (0.107), a descriptor of flower shape. After accounting for the effects of substrate type, herbivory, plant size, and flower and fruit production, individual variation in floral morphology (aspects of size and shape) explained a negligible proportion (2.1%) of total individual variation in cumulative fruit production. Phenotypic selection on the floral morphology of V. cazorlensis at the study population, although statistically significant, was therefore almost inconsequential as a source of individual variation in maternal fitness, its effects being heavily @'dilute@' by the overwhelming influence of other factors. As exemplified by this study, selection on the floral phenotype may often become largely irrelevant in evolutionary terms because other ecological factors are far more important determinants of fitness differences among plants. A realistic assessment of the potential relevance of selection on plant reproductive traits thus requires a quantitative evaluation, in its natural scenario, of the predictable consequences of such selection.
10.2307/2937235|This paper concerns the growth of 2 predator species competing exploitatively for the same prey population. The prey population grows logistically in the absence of predation, and the predators feed on the prey with a saturating functional response to prey density. Specifically, we assume that Michaelis-Menten kinetics or the Holling @'disc@' model describe how feeding rates and birth rates change with increasing prey density. We focus on the question of which predator species will survive and which will not, given the growth parameters of the prey and the functional response parameters of the 2 predators. Which predator wins or loses depends critically on the relative magnitude of the prey carrying capacity, K, and the @l parameters of the 2 predators. @?"i represents the prey density at which the ith predator @'breaks even@' (equal birth and death rates). This prey density is defined by the product of the predator's half-saturation (Michaelis-Menten) constant times the ratio of the predator's death rate to its intrinsic rate of increase. Coexistence is also possible for a wide range of parameters, but only as a periodic solution. A primary conclusion is that coexistence is possible only if the predator with the smaller half-saturation constant also has the smaller birth-rate-to-death-rate ratio. This necessary constraint is the mechanistic equivalent to requiring that 1 predator be an @'r-strategist@' and the other be a @'K-strategist.@' This condition is insufficient to guarantee coexistence, however. If the prey carrying capacity, K, is @'too small@' the K-strategist wins, and if K is @'too large,@' the r-strategist wins. The bounded region of intermediate K values permitting coexistence is defined by the functional response parameters of the 2 predator species. The greater the disparity between the half-saturation constants of the 2 predators, the larger the region of K permitting coexistence.
27646050|Host shifts by herbivorous insects have contributed substantially to current patterns of association between insects and plants. Despite their evolutionary and agricultural interest, however, the plant traits that predispose insects to colonize some plants instead of others are poorly understood. To examine whether ancestral and novel hosts share similar chemical oviposition stimulants that would facilitate a host shift, we investigated a well-substantiated host shift within the Papilio machaon group of swallowtail butterflies. Papilio machaon aliaska uses three plant species as host plants. Cnidium cnidiifolium belongs to the family Apiaceae, the ancestral host-plant family of the P. machaon group. Artemisia arctica and Petasites frigidus, by contrast, belong to the family Asteraceae and were colonized relatively recently by this group of butterflies. Papilio machaon oregonius, a close relative of P. m. aliaska, feeds and oviposits exclusively on Artemisia dracunculus, also in the Asteraceae. We made polar and nonpolar extracts of all four host plants, conducted bioassays with P. m. aliaska and P. m. oregonius females to test for oviposition stimulants, and found that the polar extracts were the most active. Using high-performance liquid chromatography, we separated the polar extracts into three fractions and again conducted bioassays with P. m. aliaska and P. m. oregonius females. The fraction containing hydroxycinnamic acid (HCA) derivatives was the only active fraction for all plant species. We further separated the HCA fraction and found two sub-fractions that were active in all of the host-plant species. Co-chromatography indicated that several major constituents of the active fractions are shared between ancestral and novel hosts. In a secondary series of experiments, we investigated chemical fractions of a non-host plant, Artemisia frigida, and identified fractions of the A. frigida extract that contained oviposition deterrents and a fraction that contained oviposition stimulants for P. m. aliaska females. We conclude that the similarity of stimulant profiles in ancestral and novel host plants is consistent with the hypothesis that plant chemistry has played a role in the establishment of this host shift.
23047064|Subtropical broad-leaved forests in southeastern China support a high diversity of woody plants. Using a comparative study design with 30  30 m plots (n = 27) from five successional stages (<20, <40, <60, <80, and 80 yr), we investigated how the gradient in species composition reflects underlying processes of community assembly. In particular, we tested whether species richness of adult trees and shrubs decreased or increased and assessed to which degree this pattern was caused by negative density dependence or continuous immigration over time. Furthermore, we tested whether rare species were increasingly enriched and the species composition of adult trees and shrubs became more similar to species composition of seedlings during the course of succession. We counted the individuals of all adult species and shrubs >1 m in height in each plot and counted all woody recruits (bank of all seedlings 1 m in height) in each central 10  10 m quadrant of each plot. In addition, we measured a number of environmental variables (elevation, slope, aspect, soil moisture, pH, C, N, and C/N ratio) and biotic structural variables (height and cover of layers). Adult species richness varied from 25 to 69 species per plot, and in total 148 woody species from 46 families were recorded. There was a clear successional gradient in species composition as revealed by nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), but only a poor differentiation of different successional stages with respect to particular species. Adult richness per 100 individuals (rarefaction method) increased with successional stage. None of the measured abiotic variables were significantly correlated with adult species richness. We found no evidence that rare species were responsible for the increasing adult species richness, as richness of rare species among both adults and recruits was independent of the successional stage. Furthermore, the similarity between established adults and recruits did not increase with successional stage. There was a constant number of recruit species and also of exclusive recruit species, i.e., those that had not been present as adult individuals, across all successional stages, suggesting a continuous random immigration over time.
10.2307/1943001|An investigation of the processes that cause succession was performed in an intertidal community on the central Oregon coast. The community was dominated by barnacles and several species of macroalgae. The successional sequence was determined at three different sites by clearing sets of plots in a way that mimicked natural disturbance. Succession at each of these sites followed the same general sequence. A barnacle, Chthamalus dalli, first colonized the plots and was later replaced by a second barnacle, Balanus glandula. The macroalgae Pelvetiopsis limitata, Fucus distichus, and Endocladia muricata colonized the plots only after Balanus was established. While the order of species arrival and departure was consistent, the rate of succession varied greatly among sites. The sequence of community development that was observed at one site over a 36-mo period occurred in <12 mo in a nearby area. Differences in the rate of succession appeared to result from variation in the timing of successful Balanus recruitment. The mechanisms of succession were investigated in a series of field experiments. An experiment with Balanus-removal, Chthamalus-removal, and control plots was used to assess the interactions between barnacles. A direct interaction, competition for space with Balanus, caused Chthamalus to decrease in abundance as succession proceeded. Chthamalus did not affect the establishment of Balanus. Successful Balanus recruitment depended on occasional periods of larval settlement followed by periods of favorable weather. At all three sites, algal colonization was dependent on the presence of barnacles. Balanus greatly facilitated algal colonization, while Chthamalus only weakly facilitated algal colonization. Facilitation of algal colonization by epoxy-filled barnacle tests indicated that facilitation resulted from barnacle tests altering the substrate, rather than the activities of the living animals. A factorial experiment involving manipulations of barnacle and consumer (limpet) abundances demonstrated that the facilitation of algae by barnacles is an indirect interaction that is mediated by limpets. Barnacles decreased limpet foraging activity and thereby increased algal abundance. Succession in this community is complicated by several processes that are not included in traditional views of succession. (1) Not all early successional species have the same effect on the establishment of later successional species. This results in spatial variation in the rate of succession. (2) The model of succession is different in each step in the successional sequence. The Cthamalus-Balanus interaction is an example of the tolerance model, while the barnacle-algae interaction is an example of the facilitation model. (3) Both direct and indirect interactions between species determine the course of succession. The results of this study support a general model that predicts the effect of consumers on the rate of succession. Consumers slowed succession in this community in two ways. First, limpets delayed the establishment of Balanus and the competitive exclusion of Chthamalus. Second, limpets delayed the establishment of macroalgae. Previous studies in marine and terrestrial habitats have found that consumers may slow, accelerate, or have no effect on the rate of succession and these observations are consistent with the predictions of this general model.
10.2307/2937300| The flora and avifauna of the Galpagos Islands are used to reexamine quantitative analyses of species numbers and compositional similarities. Conflicts in the results of previous analyses of the Galpagos flora are reconciled and are shown to be the result of using different species numbers and physiographic parameter measurements. The idea that Galpagos plant species numbers largely reflect conditions in the archipelago during the Pleistocene glaciations (i.e., that relaxation times are very long) is criticized, and the more parsimonious alternative, that they reflect recent conditions, is proposed. Generalizations about factors determining species numbers that are based on multiple regression and correlation are precarious. The number of botanical collecting trips to each of the Galpagos Islands is a better predictor of species numbers than are area, elevation, or isolation. Two null hypotheses concerning the determination of floral and avifaunal compositional similarities among the Galpagos Islands are proposed and tested, through the application of a new method of similarity analysis employing the @'expected number of taxa shared@' (E"t"s) and its variance (V"E"t"s). These hypotheses view compositional similarities as resulting from the stochastic dispersal and persistence of a pool of species equally likely to colonize (Null Hypothesis I), and of a pool of species with different dispersal and persistence abilities (Null Hypothesis II). Although both hypotheses are found to be inadequate models of compositional similarity in the Galpagos, the results suggest that a substantial proportion of compositional similarity can be considered a consequence of stochastic processes of dispersal and persistence, and that compositional similarity arises indirectly as a result of similar species numbers rather than directly in a fashion determined by the physical environment or species interactions. Analyses of the distribution of congeneric bird species in the Galpagos, based on similarity analyses, are also criticized. 
10.2307/2963472|The aims of this paper are to compare the thermal ecology of four species of varanid lizards that occupy a range of habitats and climatic regions, and to assess the efficacy of methods for evaluating the extent to which ectothermic animals exploit their thermal environments. Hertz et al. (1993) have proposed several indices of thermoregulation, and these are evaluated with respect to our data from varanid lizards. The thermoregulatory characteristics of three tropical monitor lizards (Varanus panoptes, V. gouldii, and the semiaquatic V. mertensi), and the temperate-zone V. rosenbergi were studied throughout the year. Radiotelemetry was used to measure the body temperatures (T
10.2307/1942456|A computer model was developed to predict the feeding selectivity of planktivorous white crappie (Pomoxis annularis) from a known distribution of zooplankton. The model was based on the assumption that each predation event could be subdivided into a series of independent steps: prey location, pursuit, attack, and retention. The probability that white crappie successfully completed each step was determined for potential zooplankton prey species in a series of laboratory experiments. The four steps were then incorporated into a stochastic model where the probability of a particular prey type being consumed is equal to the product of the probabilities of the individual steps. The model was field tested by sampling fish, zooplankton, and physical parameters from discrete depth strata in a small reservoir on nine dates from October 1978 through November 1979. The model proved to be very accurate at predicting the species and size distribution of the ingested prey across the range of light intensities, turbidities, temperatures, and zooplankton densities encountered. Prey consumption could not be characterized as simply size selective; rather, it reflected the selectivity expressed at each step in the feeding cycle.
10.2307/1942156|Wild radish (Raphanus raphanistrum) and ragweed (Ambrosia artemisiifolia), the dominant producers during initial succession in an old field, were labeled with ^3^2P in several trophic-transfer studies. Feeding relationships were determined by correlating the population dynamics and ^3^2P uptake by consumer species with the phenological changes in producer components and isotope distribution in plant tissues. The relative magnitude of consumer pathways was estimated by using trophic-transfer indices. The first year of old-field succession was characterized by rapid phenological changes in plant-organ availability with related shifts in consumer trophic relationships. The food web of wild radish, the early summer dominant producer, changed rapidly over time resulting in successive pulses of leaf, pollen, and seed feeders. Grasshoppers were the major leaf feeders. Aphids consumed internal juices within stems while flea beetles were concentrated and feeding solely on nutrient-rich seed tissue. Leafhoppers and tarnished plant bugs also consumed internal fluids during wild radish development. The high densities and consumption by plant bugs and aphids, the major consumers of wild radish, resulted in a low food-web diversity for wild radish. Predator-prey relationships during early summer were governed mainly by the aphid infestation. Young ragweed plants and the litter and seed crop of wild radish were major food-web bases in midsummer. Generalized herbivores such as grasshoppers and crickets utilized radish seeds and ragweed tissue during this period. A second phase of specialized feeders entered the old field as ragweed became available. Food-web diversity was highest at this time when many species were present and at low densities. Ragweed was the dominant producer late in the growing season. Some herbivores utilized ragweed leaves while several species of plant bugs became abundant and were consuming the nutrient-rich fluids being channeled into pollen tissue. Plant bugs were the major ragweed herbivores. The importance of these plant bugs resulted in a decline in food-web diversity near the end of the growing season. Most consumers decreased in numbers and ^3^2P activity as ragweed died back in September. Ragweed litter, however, supported crickets and other components of the detrital food web over the fall season. Wild radish and ragweed were the major food-web bases during the first year of succession. Over 90% of the arthropods sampled in the old field were food-web components of these producers. Many of these consumers were specialists and sucking forms which peaked in density and ^3^2P activity as nutrient-rich fluids were entering their specific food sources. The synchronal occurrence of consumer population peaks and successive nutrient pulses in host-plant organs thus appears to maximize the energy utilization by these consumers while minimizing interspecific competition for sites of trophic transfer. Little foliar damage was evident for wild radish or ragweed because of the importance of herbivores with sucking mouthparts. Tracer studies were thus critical in evaluating the role of both producers as food-web bases. The similarity of results in two replicate studies confirmed the repeatability and accuracy of tracer techniques for trophic-transfer analysis. However, temporal aspects of food-web structure should be considered in future studies where rapid changes in plant phenology are present.
10.2307/1942660|Regeneration waves in the high-altitude fir forests of the northeastern United States create a gradient of stands of different ages that are ideal for research on forest developmental processes. Changes in density, biomass, productivity, litterfall, and nutrient content of the vegetation over the course of stand development were documented in a series of these stands on Whiteface Mountain, New York. After a regeneration wave passes through an area and the overstory dies, formerly suppressed seedlings are released, and stand density increases to 10-13 trees/m^2 at about age 10 (counting only stems over 25 cm tall). Stand density then begins to decrease, at first slowly but then more rapidly, with a maximum mortality rate of 20-25% yr between years 20 and 30. Thereafter mortality continues, but the rate decreases over time to @?4% yr at age 55. After about age 20 the relationship between stand age and stand density is @r = 0.04@?exp(115/AGE). For stands that have begun to self-thin, the relationship between stand age and stand density and mean aboveground tree mass is log"1"0 @? = 3.94 - 1.24 log"1"0@r, with a slope significantly different from -1.5. Basal area (measured at 25 cm) increases for the first 15-20 yr of stand development, then remains constant at 60-70 m^2/ha for the remainder of the life of the stand. Total aboveground biomass of a mature fir stand is @?11.8 kg/m^2 (1.5 kg/m^2 foliage, 1.7 kg/m^2 branches, 0.9 kg/m^2 bole bark, and 7.7 kg/m^2 bole wood). The biomass accumulation rate is highest during the first decade of stand development (320 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1), and declines to @?115 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 for a 55-yr-old stand. Foliage biomass increases rapidly during the first 10-15 yr of stand development, then remains constant after crown closure. Branch biomass increases until about age 15, declines for about a decade, then increases again for the rest of the life of the stand. Bole bark increases until about age 30, then stabilizes. Bole wood continues to increase throughout the life of the stand. Aboveground net primary productivity for a mature stand is 960 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 (foliage, 380 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1; twigs, 150 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1; branch wood and bark, 170 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1; bole bark, 25 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1; and bole wood, 235 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1). Productivity remains generally constant as the stand develops, but in the early stages almost 45% of the total aboveground production is devoted to producing bole wood and bark, while in a mature stand this proportion drops to @?25%, with the remainder going to foliage and branch wood production. There is thus a shift from production of boles to branches as the stand ages. This may reflect a shift in the primary stresses on the trees, from intraspecific competition in the younger stands to physical environmental factors (e.g., wind abrasion and rime formation) in the older stands. After the initial increase, woody tissue respiration remains approximately constant throughout the life of the stand, as an increase in the size and height of boles is balanced by death of small trees and a decrease in total bole surface area. A mature fir stand contains nitrogen, potassium, magnesium, and calcium in the amounts 47.7, 18.1, 4.6, and 30.4 g/m^2, respectively. All these nutrients accumulate rapidly in the early stages of stand development as the stand accumulates nutrient-rich foliage. This is particularly true for nitrogen; a 9-yr-old stand contains half as much nitrogen as a 60-yr-old one. However, the difference between nutrient uptake by the trees and nutrient release in decomposition is greatest somewhat later in stand development, when the pulse of litter accompanying stand die-off has decomposed but the young stand is still taking up significantly greater quantities of nutrients than it is returning in litterfall. Thus if ecosystem nutrient losses are controlled by nutrient accumulation in living biomass, the period of maximum nutrient conservation should occur in the years immediately after disturbance, when the stand is accumulating nutrients most rapidly. If the critical factor is the balance between uptake and release, then minimum losses should occur later. Increased meteorologic inputs of nitrogen and acid in the high-altitude fir forests may have altered the natural nutrient cycles of the preindustrial era.
10.2307/1943008|Measurement of total ecosystem nitrogen accumulation in a moss (Polytrichum) ecosystem after 13 yr of primary succession upon exposed sands of glacial origin in New Hampshire, USA, revealed an N accumulation rate of 10.1 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1. Comparison of the measured accumulation with a mass balance analysis of measured inputs (bulk precipitation inorganic N plus biological N"2 fixation plus windblown coarse particulate matter) minus outputs (hydrologic losses plus N"2O and N"2 emissions) revealed that 35% of the inputs required to satisfy the observed rate of N accumulation had not been measured. These unmeasured sources include bulk precipitation organic N, dry deposition, and dew inputs. Total N inputs, including the unmeasured sources, were 10.5 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1. Bulk precipitation was the dominant N input, comprising 58% of the annual input. Dinitrogen fixation and coarse particulate organic matter together represented only 7%; unmeasured sources accounted for the remainder (35%). The predominance of bulk precipitation as an input source to the moss ecosystem is in contrast to many other primary successional systems where N"2 fixation is the dominant source of N. Nitrogen outputs from the ecosystem were small (0.40 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1), with most coming from hydrologic export (0.29 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1) and a smaller fraction (0.10 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1) from N"2O effluxes. No N"2 losses were detected. The moss ecosystem was extremely efficient at retaining bulk precipitation N inputs. Additions of ^1^5N-labelled simulated rainfall showed that soil and belowground live moss biomass retained most of the input. The amount of N retained by each component of the ecosystem was related directly to the amount of biomass (living or dead) in the component. Soil organic matter was also important in retaining nitrogen inputs. In a short-term microcosm experiment, soil with a high organic matter content (2.71%) retained 47% of inorganic N in simulated rainfall, compared to only 27% retained in soil with a low organic matter content (0.51%). The moss vegetation exerted control over the N retention efficiency of the ecosystem. Removal of mosses resulted in a short-term retention of N inputs, soon followed by losses that exceeded inputs. Nitrogen retention again resumed following recolonization of the soil by mosses. Development of the moss ecosystem appears to have been enhanced by two positive feedback mechanisms. First, establishment of the mosses led to biomass and soil organic matter accumulation, enhancing N capture and retention, and thus increasing biomass accumulation. Second, development of aboveground biomass further enhanced collection of N in dry deposition and dew, increasing total inputs.
10.2307/2963492|I compared effects of increased temperature and litter from different Alaskan tundra plant species on cycling of carbon and nitrogen through litter and soil in microcosms. Warming between 4
10.2307/1942338|Five vegetation zones were recognized in the Similkameen Valley of southern British Columbia. These zones were largely controlled by elevation primarily as a reflection of climate. The climate becomes progressively more moist from east to west and with increasing elevation. Two habitat types were described in the Artemisia tridentata zone, three in the Pinus ponderosa zone, five in the Pseudotsuga menziesii zone, five in the Abies lasiocarpa zone, and one in the Alpine zone. Some habitat types correlated well with the soils at a great group level. The Pinus-Festuca habitat type was found mostly on Dark Gray soils, the Pseudotsuga-Festuca habitat type on a variety of soils, the Pseudotsuga-Calamagrostis habitat type on Gray Luvisols, the Festuca-Eriogonum habitat type on Black Chernozems, the Abies-Vaccinium-Calamagrostis habitat type on Dystric Brunisols, and the Abies-Vaccinium, Phyllodoce habitat type on Alpine Dytsric Brunisols soils. A key for the identification of the major habitat types is included.
10.2307/1942251|Results of quantitative sampling of small mammal populations at different grassland sites for a 3-yr period are compared to evaluate the energy requirements and consumption, according to trophic levels, for total small mammal communities at all seasons in different years. The purpose was to search for patterns of food utilization by these consumers at the different sites. This picture of the bioenergetics of small mammal populations over a wide range of grassland sites was constructed from extensive US/IBP Grassland Biome diet and population data and from physiological information out of the literature. The work represents one step in the process of understanding the role of consumers in the ecosystem. No species occurs at all sites and different trophic strategies predominate among the small mammals at each site: Microtines (herbivores) dominate the tallgrass prairie, sciurids (omnivores) dominate the northern shortgrass prairie, and heteromyids (granivores) dominate the bunchgrass and desert grasslands. Other groups occur at these sites and vary in their importance. At the tallgrass and midgrass sites the small mammal populations are largely dependent on herbage consumption, while at the northern and southern shortgrass prairie sites the rodent fauna is largely dependent on invertebrates. The most uniform distribution of resource utilization by this component of the consumer community occurs at the desert grassland site, where herbage, seeds, and animal matter are all utilized. Relative to the total amount of consumable herbage available (that actually utilized by the small mammal population), this resource is only slightly utilized (from a fraction to a few percent of available). Animal matter, largely invertebrates, is highly utilized at most sites and may in fact be a limiting factor on small mammal populations. The energy consumed by the small mammal population was greatest at the tallgrass prairie site, where the average annual consumption was 172 x 10^3 kcal/ha (= 720 MJ/ha). However, efficiency of biomass support was greatest at the northern shortgrass prairie site, where consumption of 32 x 10^3 kcal/ha (= 134 MJ/ha) supported proportionately more biomass (277 g live wt./ha) of animals than at the tallgrass site (935 g/ha). The estimates of population energy requirements presented here compare well with other available estimates. These results emphasize the great between year and site variability, however. Daily population respiration in summer may be as little as 14 and as large as 1,038 kcal@?ha^-^1@?day^-^1. Highest small mammal biomass occurred at the tallgrass (3,075 g live wt./ha) and the desert (2,304 g/ha) sites, and lowest at the midgrass (14 g/ha) site. Within the period of study, small mammal biomass was most stable at the southern shortgrass site and most variable at the tallgrass site. The role of small mammal populations in grassland ecosystem remains incompletely defined. A broader view of the total consumer community in relation to resources is required.
10.2307/2937130|The effects of two sources of biological disturbance--predation and sea urchin grazing--on the structure of benthic communities inside and outside beds of the horse mussel, Modiolus modiolus, were examined in the rocky subtidal zone off the Isles of Shoals, New Hampshire, USA. Multivariate analysis revealed three major communities between 8 and 30 m in depth: (1) a Modiolus community; (2) a 30 m community; and (3) an 8-18 m community. At all depths, mussel beds contained significantly higher densities of infauna than did other subtidal habitats. The hypothesis that Modiolus beds provide a refuge from predation for the associated community was tested in five manipulative field experiments. Three members of the mussel bed community, the bivalve Hiatella arctica, the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis, and the ophiuroid Ophiopholis aculeata, were used as experimental prey. Consumption of these prey by a guild of generalist predators was observed outside but not inside mussel beds, which indicates that subtidal Modiolus beds provide a spatial refuge from predation. Deaths from predation were significantly higher at night than during the day for Hiatella but not for Strongylocentrotus. At night, crab (Cancer borealis, Cancer irroratus) and lobster (Homarus americanus) predation accounted for all attacks that were directly witnessed, while fish (Tautoglabrus adspersus, Pseudopleuronectes americanus) predation accounted for 71% of the total prey consumed during the day. Such diel differences in predation corresponded with predator abundance patterns. The sea urchin Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis was the most significant agent of biological disturbance during the 1979-1984 study period. Strongylocentrotus intensively grazed the benthos at 8 m in 1982, causing a 79% reduction (from predisturbance levels) in the mean population density of invertebrates outside the mussel beds. This event served as a natural experiment in which to test the hypothesis that Modiolus beds function as a refuge from severe grazing disturbance. Re-sampling of communities inside and outside mussel beds immediately after the grazing disturbance indicated that the Modiolus community exhibited less change in species composition, dominance, and diversity than communities outside the mussel beds. Such comparisons indicate that Modiolus beds afford protection from severe grazing disturbance for infaunal invertebrates. Long-term photographic monitoring of marked mussel beds at 8, 18, and 30 m depth showed that Modiolus beds at all depths persisted for more than 5 yr. Mortality rates of adult Modiolus were low; however, mortality was highest at the shallow site (8 m). Mussel beds successfully resisted the grazing disturbance which eliminated all other biogenic habitats except those created by crustose coralline algae. Modiolus beds are effective refuges because they persist for many years and resist biotic disturbance. In the subtidal communities examined here, lower levels of disturbance inside mussel beds can account for the abundance and spatial distribution of Modiolus-community species. These results demonstrate the functional significance of mussel beds in cold-temperate subtidal regions where predation and sea urchin grazing are major determinants of community organization.
10.2307/2963489|Risk of larval mortality is a critical component of models and debates concerning the ecology and evolution of the differing reproductive characteristics exhibited by marine invertebrates. In these discussions, predation often is assumed to be a major source of larval mortality. Despite limited empirical support, most marine larvae are thought to be palatable and broadly susceptible to generalist predators. Previous studies of larval-planktivore interactions have focused primarily on larvae that typically feed, grow, and develop for weeks to months in the plankton. Such planktotrophic species commonly produce large numbers of small larvae that disperse over vast distances. In contrast, the nonfeeding lecithotrophic larvae from sessile invertebrates that brood are often large and conspicuous, lack morphological defenses, and have limited dispersal distances because they typically are competent to settle minutes to hours after spawning. Interactions between lecithotrophic larvae and consumers are not well studied. This has limited the ability of previous authors to test broad generalities about marine larvae. We show that brooded larvae of Caribbean sponges (11 species) and gorgonians (three species) as well as brooded larvae of temperate hydroids (two species) and a bryozoan are unpalatable to co-occurring fishes. In contrast, brooded larvae of temperate ascidians (three species), a temperate sponge, and Caribbean hard corals (three species) are readily consumed by fishes, as are larvae from four of six species of synchronous broadcast-spawning gorgonians from the Florida Keys. Frequencies of survivorship for larvae attacked and rejected by fishes were high and statistically indistinguishable from frequencies for unattacked control larvae. Frequency of metamorphosis (when it occurred) of rejected larvae never differed significantly from that of unattacked control larvae. Assays testing for larval vs. adult chemical defenses for five species with distasteful larvae showed that larvae of all five species were chemically distasteful to fishes, whereas only three of five adult extracts deterred fish feeding. A comparison of larval palatability among chemically rich taxa showed that brooded larvae were significantly more likely to be unpalatable (86% of the species tested) than larvae of broadcasters (33%), and that palatable larvae were rarely released during the day (23%) while unpalatable larvae usually were (89%). Additionally, the frequency of bright coloration was high (60%) for unpalatable larvae and low (0%) for palatable larvae, suggesting that unpalatable larvae often may be aposematically colored. Results of this broad survey cast doubt on the widely accepted notion that virtually all marine larvae are suitable prey for most generalized planktivores. Among species that do not chemically or physically protect larvae against fishes, selection appears to favor the release of larvae at night, or the production of smaller more numerous offspring that grow and develop at sea as a way of escaping consumer-rich benthic habitats. Because distasteful larvae are not similarly constrained, distasteful species should exhibit reproductive and larval characteristics selected more by the fitness-related consequences of larval development mode and dispersal distance than by the necessity of avoiding benthic predators. Production of large larvae and retention of offspring in parental habitats that have proved to be suitable for growth and reproduction have both been proposed as advantageous, but these advantages often were assumed to be offset by losses due to increased larval apparency to fishes. This assumed trade-off is not mandatory because larvae can be defended chemically. Distasteful larvae tend to be conspicuous, localized dispersers that can co-occur with benthic fishes, and yet not be consumed.
10.2307/1942574|Throughout the southeastern United States the hardwood Nyssa sylvatica (sensu lato) is distributed along a soil moisture gradient from upland sites, which are never flooded, to floodplains, which are periodically flooded and drained to permanently flooded swamps. Population differentiation with respect to flood tolerance and related physiological attributes was investigated using 1-year-old seedlings grown in a greenhouse from seed collected along this gradient. Upland plants were very intolerant of flooded soils. Their root systems deteriorated, root respiration rates dropped and, after a year under such conditions, survival was poor and those that did remain were greatly stunted and had accumulated large concentrations of many nutrient elements. In contrast swamp plants were quite tolerant of flooded soils. Upon flooding, parts of the orginal root system were lost but new roots were initiated which had an increased capacity for alcoholic fermentation. Many of these new roots were more succulent, larger in diameter, and less branched than drained roots. Such succulent roots however were only a temporary response to short-term flooding; plants flooded for a year did not have such roots, rather the root system superficially resembled drained roots. Concomitant with this return to drained-like roots was an increase in internal oxygen transport to the roots and a drop in alcoholic fermentation. Floodplain plants under drained conditions allocated less biomass to roots than to shoots and had high respiration rates, traits similar to upland plants. Under flooded conditions they initiated new roots with medium respiration rates, allocated less biomass to roots than to shoots, significantly increased oxygen transport to the roots and had high survival, traits similar to swamp plants. Thus, the floodplain population produced a distinctly flood-tolerant phenotype; but not nearly as tolerant of flooded conditions as the swamp phenotype. Floodplain plants differed from swamp plants in transporting less oxygen to the roots under drained conditions, initiating fewer succulent-type roots and not accelerating alcoholic fermentation upon flooding and after a year under flooded conditions having less total biomass, less oxygen transport to the roots and a greater accumulation of Fe and Mn in the roots. The floodplain plants apparently have been selected to be similar to upland plants under drained conditions and swamp plants under flooding and one consequence of this is that their tolerance of flooded conditions is intermediate. It is argued that one of the more important trade-offs in adapting to flooded conditions is that high internal oxygen transport carries with it a "cost" in terms of excessive water loss under water stress conditions.
4539101|Stratigraphic palynological analyses of four late Quaternary deposits comprise a landscape-level study of the patterns and processes of megafaunal extinction in southeastern New York State. Distinctive spores of the dung fungus Sporormiella are used as a proxy for megafaunal biomass, and charcoal particle analysis as a proxy for fire history. A decline in spore values at all sites is closely followed by a stratigraphic charcoal rise. It is inferred that the regional collapse of a megaherbivory regime was followed by landscape transformation by humans. Correlation with the pollen stratigraphy indicates these developments began many centuries in advance of the Younger Dryas climatic reversal at the end of the Pleistocene. However, throughout the region, the latest bone collagen dates for Mammut are considerably later, suggesting that megaherbivores lasted until the beginning of the Younger Dryas, well after initial population collapse. This evidence is consistent with the interpretation that rapid overkill on the part of humans initiated the extinction process. Landscape transformation and climate change then may have contributed to a cascade of effects that culminated in the demise of all the largest members of North America's mammal fauna.
10.2307/1942488|The community of epiphytes on the giant kelp Macrocystis pyrifera, is simple, consisting primarily of the bryozoans Membranipora membranacea, Hippothoa hyalina, and Lichenopora buskiana; the serpulid polychaete Spirorbis spirillum; and the hydroids Obelia sp. and Campanulaia sp. Abundances of the organisms vary rapidly, by an order of magnitude or more in 2 wk. In spite of this short-term unpredictability, broad patterns of distribution are predictable. Membranipora, the competitive dominant, is abundant during winter and spring and absent during summer and fall when surface waters are warm and thermally stratified. When present, it occurs primarily in the canopy along the outer edge of the large (1 X 11 km) Point Loma, San Diego, kelp bed. The distribution of the subordinate epiphytes complements that of Membranipora. They occur in the interior portions of bed, and on the lower, older blades of Macrocystis plants. These patterns are maintained by a sophisticated suite of larval behaviors and settlement preferences. The subordinate epiphytes settle preferentially on the older blades of Macrocystis, and avoid blades from plants on the outer edge of the bed where competitive overgrowth by Membranipora is more likely. In addition the extremely short larval life-spans of the subordinate epiphytes (a few hours) mean that offspring will settle near where they were released, in the interior of the bed. Membranipora, in contrast, has a planktonic lifetime of 2 to 4 wk. Nearshore current measurements indicate that as a result its larvae are flushed from the bed, and that the source of larvae ready to metamorphose and settle must be external to the bed, from other kelp beds in the area. This helps restrict Membranipora to the outer edge of the bed, since larvae are removed from the water as it passes through the bed both by settlement on Macrocystis blades and by plankivorous fish that feed on them. The labrid fish Oxyjulis californica is an important predator in this system. It is a curious, actively searching generalist that excludes large, erect epiphytes such as the barnacle Lepas pacifica and the bivalve Leptopecten latiauritus from the nearshore kelp bed. Field and laboratory experiments imply that Oxyjulis forms short-term search images and switches among prey species. One of the species it regulates is the herbivorous isopod Pentidothea resecta, which, when released from regulation, multiples rapidly and destroys the kelp canopy. Oxyjulis, though it buffers the system from extinction due to Pentidothea, is also potentially destructive. Small kelp beds, too small for the filtering action to take effect, become heavily encrusted with Membranipora and can be destroyed by Oxyjulis predation on the encrusted blades. The set of relationships among species in this community can fruitfully be viewed as having coevolved to contribute to persistence in this unstable environment. Indeed, some factors that contribute to instability are the very ones necessary for persistence. Competition, predation, habitat selection, and life history strategies interact to ensure that the number of species in the community and their interrelationships remain constant. There appear to be no mechanisms acting to regulate epiphyte species to equilibrium levels of abundance. This system is thus best described as one that fluctuates unpredictably within well-defined boundaries.
10.2307/2937177|Herbivory can potentially affect the speed and direction of plant succession by favoring the development of a community dominated by grazing-resistant species. This idea was tested experimentally by examining the effects of the planktonic herbivore, Daphnia, on phytoplankton succession in a naturally eutrophic lake. Phytoplankton succession was characterized by two major transitions in community structure. Algal dominance shifted from small diatoms and chlorophytes during the spring bloom to cryptophyte flagellates during the clear-water phase. After the clear-water phase, dominance shifted to filamentous blue-greens (cyanobacteria). Algal species positions in the successional sequence were repeatable from year to year, despite interannual shifts in the timing of species' peak abundances associated with a drastic change in the food web. In addition, evidence is presented to suggest that Daphnia-induced changes in water clarity may have fostered increases in epilimnetic mixing, which, in turn, may have stimulated brief blooms of large-celled algae after clear-water periods. Daphnia manipulation in large enclosures, and whole-lake observations before and after a fish kill, showed that intense grazing promoted the transition from edible, spring-bloom species to similarly edible, cryptophyte flagellates. In contrast, Daphnia grazing retarded further succession to grazing-resistant, filamentous blue-greens. Thus, the effects of herbivory on algal succession were not predictable from the relative susceptibilities of these algal species to grazing mortality. These results underscore the importance of indirect effects in the herbivore-plant interactions of planktonic communities. The observation that a single species of herbivore had opposite effects during two successional transitions implies that caution should be exercised when extrapolating grazer effects beyond the time scale of an experiment.
27646094|Understanding the dependency of ecosystem processes on spatial and temporal scales is crucial in current efforts to model ecosystem responses to global change. Here we present a case of nonlinear interactions between temporal and spatial scales in a high spatial- and temporal-resolution study of fine-root biomass responses to edaphic and climatic variation in a lowland tropical rain forest (La Selva, Costa Rica). The spatiotemporal variation in fine roots in this forest was considerably greater than that for aboveground live biomass and litterfall. Standing stocks of both live and dead fine roots varied strongly during a seven-year period (up to 10-fold) and across two edaphic gradients with different soil nutrient and water variation (up to four-fold). Fine-root biomass decreased with soil fertility and volumetric soil water content, but responses across a landscape gradient (decreasing with total soil P and K and increasing with N:P ratio between two Oxisols with different weathering) differed from those across a topographic gradient in older Oxisols (increasing with total Fe and A1 and decreasing with Ca, Mg, and C:N ratio down the slopes). The spatial contrasts across the landscape gradient (but not in the topographic gradient) changed substantially through time, and they, in fact, disappeared entirely by the middle of the study interval. Short-term monitoring of belowground standing biomass could thus lead to important biases when quantifying root responses. The positive time  gradient interaction in fine-root biomass across soil types (but not downslope) also indicates nonlinear changes in spatial patterns across temporal scales, so studies on temporal responses also need to be spatially explicit at narrow scales. This interaction also appears to be more complex than previously recognized: semester-averaged fine-root biomass was negatively correlated with soil water content in the preceding semester, but the relationship was restricted to residual Oxisols. To increase the accuracy of global carbon cycle models in the future, a critical complement to observations of ecosystem processes at regional and global scales will be quantifying these processes through multiple years and across the substantial edaphic gradients that typically exist within landscapes.
10.2307/2937026|Resource heterogeneity promotes coexistence between two competing species, Sarraceniopus darlingtoniae, a slime mite, and larvae of Metriocnemus edwardsi, a midge, which live together in pitchers of Darlingtonia californica, the California pitcher plant. Both species depend on resources derived from the decomposing insects captured by the pitchers. Experimentation revealed that midge larvae consumed resources at a greater rate than mites and that the densities of the two species are negatively correlated. These results indicate that M. edwardsi is a potential dominant competitor with S. darlingtoniae. Competition theory predicts that the presence of midge larvae should lead to the competitive exclusion of mites, yet these species coexist in field populations. This seeming paradox can be explained by temporal and spatial heterogeneity in resources. Midge larval density is generally associated with expected resource levels of pitchers, whereas mites are found in greatest abundance in pitchers whose resources differ from expected. This pattern suggests that the effects of competition vary and are strongest when actual resource levels equal expected resource levels. When resource levels are above expected levels, coexistence occurs. These results support Levins' (1979) model for coexistence of two species on a single resource. The implications of this study to the general debate over the role of interspecific competition in structuring communities are discussed.
10.2307/1942607|The objectives of this study were: (1) to test the hypothesis that food was the principal proximate factor limiting the distribution of birds on the Serengeti Plains of Tanzania, and (2) to generate a satisfactory description of the relationships of the Serengeti avifauna to selected habitat factors. I analyzed natural changes in the avifauna among habitats through time and related these changes to variation in avian food and habitat resources. Food limitation was apparently not an important proximate factor affecting short-term variations in bird population densities, although many species were functionally capable of responding to fluctuations in food supply. Habitat partitioning was the principal means of @'niche segregation@' among the various species. Sites with greatest total avian biomass had low vegetation biomass, low vegetation height, but well-developed vertical vegetation structure. These conditions provided cover along with a great degree of ground-level mobility for most species. Individual bird species were associated with specific types of vegetation structure, while vegetation condition (primarily green biomass) was the main factor associated with increased densities of bird species within vegetation types. Neither conventional competition theory nor Wiens' (1977) @'bottle-neck@' theory can account for the characteristics of the Serengeti grassland avifauna.
27646170|Understanding the role of consumers in plant population dynamics is important, both conceptually and practically. Yet, while the negative effects of herbivory on plant performance have been well documented, we know much less about how individual-level damage translates to impacts on population growth or whether spatial variation in herbivory affects patterns of plant distribution. We studied the role of insect herbivory in the dynamics and distribution of the tree cholla cactus (Opuntia imbricata), a long-lived perennial plant, across an elevational gradient in central New Mexico, USA, from low-elevation grassland (1670 m) to a grasslandmountain transition zone (1720 m) to the rocky slopes of the Los Pinos Mountains (1790 m). Tree cholla density increased significantly with elevation, while abundance of and damage by a suite of native, cactus-feeding insects decreased. We combined field experiments and demographic models to test the hypothesis that systematic spatial variation in chronic insect herbivory limits the tree cholla distribution to a subset of suitable habitat across the gradient. Our results support this hypothesis. We found that key demographic functions (survival, growth, fecundity) and the responses of these functions to experimental reductions in insect herbivory varied across the gradient. The effects of insect exclusion on plant growth and seed production were strongest in the low-elevation grassland and decreased in magnitude with increasing elevation. We used the experimental data to parameterize integral projection models (IPM), which predict the asymptotic rate of population increase (). The modeling results showed that insect herbivory depressed  and that the magnitude of this effect was context-dependent. The effect of insect herbivory on population growth was strongest at low elevation (low = 0.095), intermediate at mid elevation (mid = 0.046), and weakest at high elevation (high = -0.0089). The total effect of insects on  was due to a combination of reductions in growth and in fecundity and their combination; the relative contribution of each of these effects varied spatially. Our results, generated by experimental demography across a heterogeneous landscape, provide new insights into the role of native consumers in the population dynamics and distribution of abundance of long-lived native plants.
27646131|Nearshore circulation processes and local geomorphological patterns are thought to be important correlates of spatial variation in larval recruitment of benthic organisms. However, few studies have attempted to quantitatively separate their relative influences upon recruitment dynamics. Here we use 12 study sites spanning 250 km of the northern Chile upwelling ecosystem and the intertidal barnacles Jehlius cirratus and Notochthamalus scabrosus to examine the extent to which spatial variation in larval recruitment is related to environmental variability and how these relationships depend on spatial autocorrelation. We find that upwelling intensity and wind velocity are negatively related to larval recruitment while surface slicks showed a positive correlation. However, the pure effect of each environmental variable was lower than its combined effects. Taking spatial autocorrelation into account, we find that the spatially structured variation of upwelling dynamics, distance to upwelling fronts, wind velocity, and slick occurrence explained most of the variation in barnacle recruitment. Spatial variation in recruitment rates of barnacles showed a characteristic length scale of 6070 km, similar to the scale estimated for the spatially structured variables (upwelling, wind velocity, and surface slicks). We find that conditions for the occurrence of surface slicks (as surrogates of internal waves activity) seem to operate across several sites, suggesting a meso- instead local-scale influence over spatial variation in barnacle recruitment. Our results suggest that spatial variation in barnacle recruitment is modulated by the combined influence of several spatially structured nearshore processes operating at scales of 6070 km and that spatial autocorrelation must be taken into account in the study of the recruitmentenvironment relationship. However, the influence of local and small-scale factors on recruitment dynamics of benthic invertebrates should be interpreted cautiously.
10.2307/1942297|The vegetation and peatland types of the Lake Agassiz Peatlands Natural Area are related to topography, waterflow patterns, water chemistry, and the evolution of the landscape as recorded by peat stratigraphy. Eight peatland types are distinguished: (1) minerotrophic swamp, (2) weakly minerotrophic swamp, (3) string bog and patterned fen, (4) forest island and fen complex, (5) transitional forested bog, (6) semi-ombrotrophic bog, (7) ombrotrophic bog (raised bog), and (8) raised bog drain. Consistent differences in pH, Ca, and Mg were found between waters of contrasting peatland types. These differences agree with the division of peatland types by degree of mineral soil water influence (minerotrophy). A general topographic alignment of vegetation and peatland types agrees with the hypothesis of chemical controls. Vegetation types often have sharp boundaries related to changes in water properties, peat surface configuration, and paths of waterflow. Landscape evolution included five phases: (1) Recession of Lake Agassiz about 11,700 years ago. (2) Organic sedimentation of local basins beginning 11,100 years ago. Aquatic peats eventually covered 6% of the substratum. (3) Development of fens, marshes, and carr during the postglacial warm-dry interval, beginning about 8,000 years ago. These peatlands built the sedge peats that now cover 46% of the substratum. Paludification caused water tables to rise, and most water basins were overgrown. (4) Invasion of minerotrophic swamp forests around the perimeter of the peatland and along substratum ridges, beginning about 5,000 years ago as the climate cooled and precipitation increased. These forests built the basal forest peats that now cover 48% of the substratum. (5) Capture of part of the watershed by Northeast Brook about 3,100 years ago, which caused a water-table divide and mineral depletion, initiated sphagnum invasion, and led to development of the present ombrotrophic raised bogs. As convexity grew, a sharp vegetation and chemical gradient developed along the limit of mineral soil water. Myrtle Lake rose steadily with paludification and now stands 11.8 ft (3.6 m) above the ridge 1 mile (1.6 km) north of the lake. Water tables rose 10-20 ft (3.0-6.1 m) over much of a 70-square-mile (181-km^2) area. This history does not agree with early concepts of succession, which postulate a trend toward mesophytism with peat accumulation. The only @'direction@' here is a possible trend toward landscape diversity.
10.2307/1942615|Distribution, abundance, diet, and beak morphology of the six Geospiza finch species were studied at eight sites on seven Galapagos islands. The resulting information was used to test the theories of Lack and Bowman that interspecific competition (Lack) and floristic and food differences among islands (Bowman) determine the ecological and morphological characteristics of the finches. Both factors were found to be important in different aspects of finch ecology. Most of the 21 populations studied spent more time foraging for seeds and fruits than for insects. Most populations had generalized diets and nine out of 18 pairs of sympatric populations had diets overlapping by 50% or more. Diet breadth was positively correlated with variety of available foods (classified by an index comprising measures of size and hardness), but was not correlated with abundance or biomass of sympatric populations of finches (potential competitors). Competitive release, in the form of large population biomass on islands with few congeners, was not found. Nor was population biomass related to variety of available food. Overlap in diet between two species was greatest when the species were most similar in abundance and body size. Interspecific competition is indicated by the distribution and morphology of the finches. The absence of four combinations of species cannot be attributed to change: (1) G. conirostris and G. fortis, (2) G. conirostris and G. scandens, (3) G. difficilis and G. fuliginosa, and (4) G. scandens and G. difficilis. These absences cannot be attributed to the absence of suitable foods. and sites with similar floras and suites of food types do not necessarily have similar ground finch faunas. The ecological and morphological similarity of members of each of the four pairs suggests an inability to coexist for competitive reasons. In contrast, where only two species occur together on an island they tend to differ markedly in size (beak and body) and diet. Species with large beaks can eat larger and harder seeds and fruits than species with small beaks, and as a consequence they tend to have more diverse diets. Species with large beaks also eat medium-sized seeds and fruits quicker than species with small beaks. Species with small beaks may be able to deal with small soft seeds more efficiently than species with large beaks, but the data are not clear on this point. In addition, small species with small beaks have a metabolic advantage over large species with large beaks. Variety of available foods influences the large species more than the small species: the two largest species, G. magnirostris and G. conirostris, occur only on sites where plants producing large and hard seeds and fruits are plentiful. Food variety apparently does not influence the degree of diet overlap. The number of plant species on an island statistically determines the number of land-bird species in general, and Geospiza species in particular, which occur on that island. The influence is probably mediated through food supply, since 53% of the variation in Geospiza species diversity among the eight sites was accounted for in a multiple linear regression analysis by diversity of available seeds and fruits. We conclude that food supply and interspecific competition have jointly determined the ecological course of the radiation of Darwin's finches and the resulting pattern of species diversity. Interisland variation in vegetation favored the initial steps of differentiation. Competitive interactions among species influenced later stages by determining which ecological types could coexist on an island with a given array of foods.
27646164|Echinoderms play a key role in structuring many marine ecosystems and are notorious for large population density variations in so-called "outbreak" or "dieoff" events. In a review of this phenomenon, we assess the causal factors and ecological and evolutionary consequences. We identified 28 species (6 Asteroidea, 8 Echinoidea, 10 Holothuroidea, 4 Ophiuroidea) that exhibit large (more than two population doublings or halvings) population density changes. Three generalized patterns were identified and named for exemplary species: (1) rapid decreases followed by no or slow recovery (DiademaParacentrotus Model), (2), rapid increase and apparent stability at a new population density (AmperimaAmphiura Model), and (3) population density fluctuations (AcanthasterAsterias Model). Echinoderms identified were distributed from the shallow intertidal to the deep sea, and from tropical to temperate regions. In most cases, significant impacts on the respective ecosystems were observed. The most striking similarity among all species identified was possession of the ancestral-type planktotrophic larva. This larval type was significantly overrepresented in species identified within the Asteroidea, Echinoidea, Holothuroidea, and for the combined data set. We suggest three main factors that render a life history with planktotrophic larvae a high-risk-high-gain strategy: (1) a strong nonlinear dependency of larval production on adult densities (Allee effects), (2) a low potential for compensatory feedback mechanisms, and (3) an uncoupling of larval and adult ecology. The alternative (derived) lecithotrophic larva occurs in 68% of recent echinoderm species, suggesting an evolutionary trend toward this larval type. Lecithotrophic development represents a more buffered life history because compensatory feedback between adult densities and larval output is likely to be more efficient. For lecithotrophic developers, direct nutritive coupling from adult to larva to the early benthic juvenile provides a buffer against starvation. Lecithotrophic larvae are independent of the vagaries of planktonic food supply, and their short planktonic duration may promote local recruitment. Anthropogenic influences contributed to the population density variations in most cases, including increased primary productivity through eutrophication or global change, disease, overfishing, and species introductions. We suggest that anthropogenic disturbance, through its influence on the frequency and/or amplitude of echinoderm population density changes, may go beyond present ecosystem impacts and alter future evolutionary trends.
10.2307/1942479|Allocation of energy to growth and heat production was measured by constructing energy budgets of male and female Sigmodon hispidus (x Adult body mass = ABM = 113 g @M; 105 g @V) and Neotoma floridana (ABM = 270 g @M; 184 g @V) from birth to maturity. Energy ingested and oxygen consumption per gram of body mass of post-weaning animals were not significantly different between sexes within species, but did differ significantly between the species. In all animals the relation between post-weaning ingestion (per gram body mass) and body mass follows a negative power function. Post-weaning metabolic rate as a function of body mass follows a different negative power function. The pattern of change in metabolic rate prior to weaning is different in the two species. In Sigmodon, metabolic rate increases linearly from birth to about 20 g (or about 20% of ABM). The rate at 20 g is about 5 cm^3@?g^-^1@?h^-^1. In Neotoma metabolic rate remains constant at 1.7 cm^3@?g^-^1@?h^-^1 from birth to about 26 g (or about 11% of ABM), then increases linearly to about 2.2 cm^3@?g^-^1@?h^-^1 at 65 g (29% ABM). In both species, the peak in metabolic rate and nutritional weaning coincide with development of homeothermy, (measured as ability to maintain adult-level body temperatures at an ambient temperature of 20@?C). Young Sigmodon become efficient homeotherms by 10-12 d of age whereas Neotoma require 19-22 d. Growth of each sex and species can be described by Gompertz equations. Growth rate constants, K, and asymptotic mass, A, differ between sexes within species and between species. Gompertz equations do not accurately describe growth of pre-weaning Neotoma which was linear from birth to 21-22 d of age. No such period of linearity is seen in Sigmodon growth. Analysis of litter-size dependence of growth of pre-weaning animals indicates that the early linear growth of Neotoma may not be a result of limited milk production, as it seems to be in Sigmodon. The relative total investment of energy in growth for a litter of Sigmodon (@? = 4.8 young) between birth and 12 d of age was 416.7 kJ compared to 770.7 kJ for the first 24 d of life of the average Neotoma (x = 2.6 young). Over these same times, a litter of Sigmodon expended 1350.6 kJ on respiration compared with 1296.2 kJ in Neotoma. Thus the total metabolizable energy requirements of 1767.7 kJ and 2066.2 kJ are similar in the two species; however, a litter of Sigmodon requires about twice as much metabolizable energy per day each day they remain with their mother. Neotoma daily requirements are lower but protracted in time. During the pre-weaning period, Neotoma are investing proportionally more of their metabolizable energy in growth, whereas Sigmodon spend more on respiration, perhaps because they depend on their own heat production for thermoregulation while Neotoma rely on their mother's heat. These results are compared with data from the literature on growth and development of homothermy in a variety of small rodents. The hypothesis is advanced that, in general, larger species defer onset of active thermoregulation to larger body masses when lower metabolic rates occur, perhaps as an adaptation to permit more efficient early growth. Small species sacrifice growth efficiency in favor of rapid attainment of early independence and they pay the high energy costs of that speed. The different developmental physiologies of Neotoma and Sigmodon are explainable by inference from current ideas on the evolution of life histories, but much of the difference is also predictable simply from their difference in body size. This may indicate the importance of body size in the complex of life history traits.
10.2307/2937034|The variation in composition, plant biomass, and net primary productivity was analyzed in a tropical grassland situated within the campus of the Kurukshetra University, India, at 29@? 58' N latitude and 76@? 51' E longitude. A study of life forms indicated a therocryptophytic flora. Detailed phytosociological values of constituent species of the vegetation were studied at monthly intervals (May 1970 to May 1971) through tiller analysis. Most of the species were found to be contagiously distributed. The changes throughout the year in the aboveground plant biomass, standing dead, litter, and belowground biomass showed a maximum aboveground biomass in September (1,974 g/m^2) and maximum belowground biomass in November (1,167 g/m^2). Examination of vertical distribution of the aboveground biomass of total vegetation as well as of the individual species indicated that different layers of vegetation are dominated by different species in different months. The aboveground net primary production was maximum during the rainy season (1,706 g/m^2), and the belowground maximum occurred during the winter season (785 g/m^2). Total annual net primary production is estimated to be 3,538 g/m^2. The system transfer functions revealed that productivity was more aboveground-directed during the wet period and more belowground-directed during the dry period. Annual efficiency of energy capture by the primary producers was calculated to be 1.66% on the basis of half total incident solar radiation.
10.2307/2937249|Population densities of snowshoe hares in Alaska fluctuate on a 10-yr cycle. A snowshoe hare population was studied near Fairbanks, Alaska USA from 1971 through 1977 during the peak, decline, low, and early increase phases of the cycle. The mosaic of habitat types was utilized by hares according to the amounts of available food and cover. Habitats utilized were from the most dense to the least dense during the increase phase of the cycle and subsided in reverse order during the population decline. Presaturation dispersal was the causal force for habitat expansion during the increase phase of the cycle, while predation was the primary force for habitat contraction during the population decline. Snowshoe hares tend to move from winter to summer ranges in response to availability of food and cover. A patchy environment which provides refuges like dense black spruce or willow-alder thickets in winter and open summer range allow hares to shift their use seasonally in response to changes in diet and to take advantage of changing environmental conditions. During summer, hares feed on herbaceous material and low shrubs in open areas; during winter, when herbs and shrubs are covered with snow, they move into the dense spruce thickets to feed on spruce, willow, and alder. During periods of high hare densities, browsing intensity reached 100% in all habitat types and diameter at point of browsing exceeded 10 mm. Both indices suggest that a hare-vegetation interaction can initiate cyclic decline. These conclusions are consistent with Keith's model for the 10-yr cycle of snowshoe hares. Dense spruce or willow-alder thickets play an important role in snowshoe hare cycles in that they provide protective cover from predators during a population crash. Snowshoe hares, which are thus able to avoid local extinction by seeking these refuges, provide the stock for subsequent population increase. In the northern part of their range snowshoe hare populations are cyclic but in the southern part they are not. The cycle in the north is regulated in part by the presence of obligate hare predators which exhibit a delayed density-dependent cycle with snowshoe hares and the existence of a vegetational mosaic which provides both suboptimal and optimal habitats. The discontinuous coniferous forests, the facultative resident hare predators, and the presence of at least three other lagomorphs are all proximate factors which help to maintain a stable hare population in the southern portions of its range.
10.2307/2657154|The identification of what factors determine the population dynamics of polyvoltine species has been a difficult problem in ecology because population dynamics can contain intra- and interannual variability, and because the time scale at which factors affect the population is often unknown. We created a comprehensive population model to determine how density dependence (linear, nonlinear, and time-delayed) and weather affected the rate of population growth of white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) in an isolated woodlot. We studied this nonoutbreak, polyvoltine species using a 257-mo data set spanning 23 yr, which incorporated both detailed intra-annual and long-term dynamics, and we used this model to forecast future population size. We then evaluated whether 3-yr spans of monthly data or a 22-yr span of annual data were better able to identify the key determinants that drive population dynamics, and we identified which data type created more accurate forecasts. The 257-mo comprehensive model determined that the intra-annual cycle was caused by seasonally varying intrinsic growth rates and density dependence on a 1-2 mo scale and indicated that peak population size in one year did not affect the population in the subsequent year. Interannual variability in peak and trough density was caused by the effect of weather on monthly rate of growth with a 0-2 mo time delay, with the exception of two droughts. These droughts negatively affected the population for 9 mo; the effects were probably mediated through reduced seed crop. This model explained 81% of the variability in density. Because weather determined interannual variability in density, forecasts that did not use known weather data during the forecast period were poor. When weather data were used, forecasts were accurate within 1-3 animals (10%) of observed densities up to 8 mo in the future but were inaccurate beyond 8 mo. We found that short-term monthly data detected more factors affecting the population and created more accurate forecasts than long-term annual data, because all factors affecting the population (except droughts) occurred on a monthly scale. The annual model did not detect any weather effects except droughts and detected annual density dependence, which represents time-delayed density dependence in polyvoltine species. We argue that this annual relationship is spurious and caused by studying this polyvoltine species on an inappropriate time scale. Our work suggests that the time scale of the analysis may affect the conclusions drawn about which types of factors determine population size and with what time lag. It also suggests that, even when population fluctuations can be explained, accurately predicting future densities may be impossible when fluctuations are driven by weather.
10.2307/2937297| The population dynamics and ecology of the red-spotted newt were studied from 1974 to the present in a series of mountain ponds in the Shenandoah Mountains, Virginia. Adult and juvenile newts were censused using a combination of methods, including drift fences and dip-netting. A technique of individual recognition was developed utilizing the number and pattern of dorsal red spots. Assisted by a simple system of toeclips, designating pond and year of first capture, these methods provided records of age, survival, and movements of >8,500 individuals. The results revealed 2 migratory peaks of adults each year: a breeding migration to ponds in March, and an August-September emigration to terrestrial hibernacula. Breeding population size, ranging from 6 to >2,600 adults per pond was stationary during the study but was significantly correlated with pond age. Annual turnover of breeding populations to new adults exceeded 50%. Sex ratios were consistently 2 @M @M: 1 @V in the breeding populations but tended toward 1:1 in the cohorts of new recruits. Annual adult @V survival was density dependent and significantly less than that of @M @M. The average @V expected to breed only 1.3 times, whereas @M @M had an expectancy of 1.9 breeding seasons. Faithfully homing to the same pond year after year, adults never migrated to new ponds between breeding seasons. Juvenile production at most ponds was poor over the 3 yr. Only 1 pond had a reproductive output consistently above a calculated replacement rate. It is inferred from the combination of poor reproduction and high immigration rates that breeding adults were not replaced by their own progeny but rather by foreign-born individuals. The red-spotted newt is basically a colonizing species responding to pond habitats that rapidly shift in time and space. It is suggested that beaver ponds have the necessary attributes of small size and temporal instability to which the life-history patterns of newts seems adapted. The majority of ponds in this area functioned as reproductive sinks in a larger, metapopulational structure. Adults in such ponds were reproductive failures or most of their lives. Only a small number of adults accounted for the regional reproduction in 1974 and 1975, but I very populous pond produced >91% of the young in 1976. Because reproductive success is pond dependent, interdemal selection may play an important role in newt evolution. It is hypothesized that homing behavior evolved as a consequence of natural selection within metapopulation centers and that the eft stage is the mechanism of dispersibility to new ponds. A new model of metapopulational dynamics is presented. 
4539111|Robert H. Whittaker defined beta diversity as the variation in species composition among sites in a geographic area. Beta diversity is a key concept for understanding the functioning of ecosystems, for the conservation of biodiversity, and for ecosystem management. This paper explains how hypotheses about the origin of beta diversity can be tested by partitioning the spatial variation of community composition data (presence-absence or abundance data) with respect to environmental variables and spatial base functions. We compare two statistical methods to accomplish that. The sum-of-squares of a community composition data table, which is one possible measure of beta diversity, is correctly partitioned by canonical ordination; hence, canonical partitioning produces correct estimates of the different portions of community composition variation. In recent years, several authors interested in the variation in community composition among sites (beta diversity) have used another method, variation partitioning on distance matrices (Mantel approach). Their results led us to compare the two partitioning approaches, using simulated data generated under hypotheses about the variation of community composition among sites. The theoretical developments and simulation results led to the following observations: (1) the variance of a community composition table is a measure of beta diversity. (2) The variance of a dissimilarity matrix among sites is not the variance of the community composition table nor a measure of beta diversity; hence, partitioning on distance matrices should not be used to study the variation in community composition among sites. (3) In all of our simulations, partitioning on distance matrices underestimated the amount of variation in community composition explained by the raw-data approach, and (4) the tests of significance had less power than the tests of canonical ordination. Hence, the proper statistical procedure for partitioning the spatial variation of community composition data among environmental and spatial components, and for testing hypotheses about the origin and maintenance of variation in community composition among sites, is canonical partitioning. The Mantel approach is appropriate for testing other hypotheses, such as the variation in beta diversity among groups of sites. Regression on distance matrices is also appropriate for fitting models to similarity decay plots.
10.2307/1942389|Black cherry occupies a key position in the dynamics of oak (Quercus spp.) forests in southern Wisconsin. Its relative importance in sapling and small-tree sizes averaged over 50%, and in some stands it was the only species in these strata. Age analysis of 854 cores showed that 58% of all black cherry stems were established between 1931 and 1941. The appearance of large amounts of black cherry in the 1930 decade was the result of drought and livestock-feed shortages. The latter were especially severe in 1934 and 1936 and resulted in large-scale disturbance of forests through grazing and possibly extensive cutting of forests for foliage. The presence of a strong shrub component exerted a major influence on the dynamics of the oak forest. An inverse relationship existed between overstory tree basal area and the importance of shrubs. Although density and cover of tree seedlings were independent of tree basal area and shrub cover, seedling numbers were insufficient for adequate restocking of most stands. In clear-cut forests the shrub layer was extensive, and regrowth of trees was largely confined to stump sprouts. Shrubs in disturbed forests averaged 38,635 stems/acre, 4,535 square inches basal area/acre, and 145.8% cover. In undisturbed forests, shrub competition (average 16,231 stems/acre, 1,036 square inches basal area/acre, and 51.4% cover) largely precluded seedling establishment by tree species, and maximum basal area levels in these forests were not maintained. Growth and survival of black cherry in the understory depended on the complex interaction of environmental factors. Tree overstory basal area and soil available water were the most significant factors controlling its vigor. Suppressed stems of cherry were as old as 60 years. Growth patterns in stem cores showed that stems responded to release after 39 years of suppression. The capacity of black cherry to develop basal sprouts and the occurrence of light intensities greater than 1,200 ft-c in the understory greatly aided its survival in this stratum. The important role of black cherry in the dynamics of the oak forests was based on opportunistic characteristics including widespread dispersal, delayed germination of seeds, and flexible seedbed requirements. Forest conditions, such as the isolation of forests as woodlots, pioneer environmental conditions, and widespread disturbance, predisposed invasion by opportunistic species. Dynamic processes were characterized by general rather than gradient compositional changes. Patterns of replacement were not orderly and predictable, but irregular as a result of chance dispersal and local catastrophe. Although not uncommon in oak forests in the northeastern United States, invasion by Acer saccharum is not occurring in southern Wisconsin. Succession to Acer-Tilia is confined to specific sites. The overall existing pattern is one of increasing diversity typical of many pioneer communities in an early phase of colonization.
10.2307/2963481|Most general models do not include herbivory as a major agent of successional change. Potentially, herbivores can affect succession in three ways: accelerating or decelerating the rate of succession, where the sequence of dominant species is unaltered, or deflecting succession onto a new trajectory, where the species composition of dominants becomes substantially different than during ungrazed succession. We examined these alternatives for benthic algae on a coral-reef crest off Oahu, Hawaii. In this system, exposed coral-rock surfaces naturally undergo one of two major grazing regimes: (1) relatively protected inside defended territories of the damselfish Stegastes fasciolatus (Pomacentridae), where the benthos is dominated by filamentous algae; or (2) exposed to abundant schooling parrotfishes (Scaridae) and surgeonfishes (Acanthuridae) outside territories, where the bottom is covered mostly by crustose algae. We compared the effects of this differential grazing on primary succession, relative to ungrazed succession, by distributing on the same date 1332 settling surfaces among three treatments: exposed inside damselfish territories, exposed just outside territories, and within fish-exclusion cages just outside territories. To balance the advantages and disadvantages of different settling surfaces, we used equal numbers of each of three kinds of 50-cm
10.2307/1942571|Phytophagous insect larvae (Lepidoptera and Tenthredinoidea) in the leaf-chewing guild were sampled from accessible parts of all the 18 species of common woody plants in a mature upland forest in New York State, in early and in late June. Among the procedures used to describe patterns of associations between plants and insects are principal components analysis and the clustering techniques of numerical taxonomy, whereby the faunistic similarity among plant species is described. We introduce a weighting factor for cluster analysis that weights a character (in this case the density of an insect species on a plant) in proportion to its deviation from the norm. During June, both the abundance and variety of insects declined on most plant species, which vary greatly in both these aspects of their fauna. Insect species that are either quite highly specialized or generalized in diet appeared to be prevalent; those with intermediate diet breadth were less so. Clustering plant species by faunal similarity revealed some clusters of taxonomically related species, but the correspondence between faunal similarity and taxonomic affinity is not strong. Few plant species have a highly distinct, specialized fauna. The complexity of distribution of insects over plants indicates that insects are responding to many factors that differentiate plant species.
27646024|Understanding the mechanisms by which nonnative species successfully invade new regions and the consequences for native fauna is a pressing ecological issue, and one for which niche theory can play an important role. In this paper, we quantify a comprehensive suite of morphological, behavioral, physiological, trophic, and life-history traits for the entire fish species pool in the Colorado River Basin to explore a number of hypotheses regarding linkages between human-induced environmental change, the creation and modification of ecological niche opportunities, and subsequent invasion and extirpation of species over the past 150 years. Specifically, we use the fish life-history model of K. O. Winemiller and K. A. Rose to quantitatively evaluate how the rates of nonnative species spread and native species range contraction reflect the interplay between overlapping life-history strategies and an anthropogenically altered adaptive landscape. Our results reveal a number of intriguing findings. First, nonnative species are located throughout the adaptive surface defined by the life-history attributes, and they surround the ecological niche volume represented by the native fish species pool. Second, native species that show the greatest distributional declines are separated into those exhibiting strong life-history overlap with nonnative species (evidence for biotic interactions) and those having a periodic strategy that is not well adapted to present-day modified environmental conditions. Third, rapidly spreading nonnative fishes generally occupy "vacant" niche positions in life-history space, which is associated either with "niche opportunities" provided by human-created environmental conditions (consistent with the environmental-resistance hypothesis of invasion) or with minimal overlap with native life-history strategies (consistent with the biotic-resistance hypothesis). This study is the first to identify specific life-history strategies that are associated with extensive range reduction of native species and expansion of nonnative species, and it highlights the utility of using niche and life-history perspectives to evaluate different mechanisms that contribute to the patterns of fish invasions and extirpations in the American Southwest.
10.2307/2937352|The stream continuum concept suggests that the physical structure of the stream channel coupled with the hydrological cycle and energy inputs results in a consistent pattern of community structure and function along a stream. I evaluated this concept in a headwater fish community along two physical gradient gradients: upstream to downstream and riffle to pool. Habitat diversity and volume increased from upstream to downstream, and from riffle to pool. Temporal variation in habitat diversity was greater upstream. Upstream, and in riffles, habitat volume tended to vary more with time. Fluctuations in rainfall regime caused annual variation in habitat, especially in volume. Benthic insect density was highest from autumn (October-November) through spring (May-June). Following emergence of adults in late spring, invertebrate densities were low in summer in areas with riparian vegetation, but were not lower where riparian vegetation was absent and stable substrates were present. Along a gradient of substrates from silt-sand to gravel-rock, insect production increased, as indicated by adults and pupae in the drift. Peak resource availability for insectivore-piscivore fishes occurred in late summer and autumn, due to increased abundance of young-of-the-year fish. Pool and raceway-pool habitat guilds and insectivore and insectivore-piscivore trophic guilds contained the largest number of species. Increases in species richness were primarily associated with the addition of deeper habitats. Species richness of the pool insectivore-piscivore guild was especially variable over time. Biomass in shallow areas consisted predominantly of generalized insectivores. In deep, stable habitats, generalized insectivores were replaced as the predominant trophic group by insectivore-piscivores and large benthic insectivores. Immigration of fish occurred in spring and autumn, the periods of highest resource availability. Immigration between midriver and headwater regions primarily involved older age classes (III+), and was associated with changes in flow regime, habitat structure, and seasonal dynamics of the resource base of particular trophic groups. Flow regime and habitat volume appeared to be important factors limiting immigration in autumn, especially in pool species. Habitat diversity (depth, current, and substrate; DCS) was significantly correlated with fish species diversity (FSD). However, considerable variation occurred in the relationship between the two variables, including: (1) FSD decreased in winter in shallow, less diverse habitats due to emigration, and increased in spring due to recolonization; (2) FSD increased in spring and autumn when resource availability increased; (3) FSD was least predictable from DCS in autumn, when flow regimes were low and large numbers of fish recruits were present; and (4) DCS did not predict FSD as accurately in temporally variable upstream areas where large numbers of small fish dominated the community, especially in areas with human disturbance. Young age groups (0-II) were primarily found in shallow, temporally variable areas upstream and in riffles. Relative growth rates were highest during summer months. However, growth rates did not increase as much between spring and summer as would have been predicted from the seasonal increase in water temperature, suggesting that resource limitation may have occurred during summer periods. Centrarchids had substantially higher growth rates than cyprinids during early life stages. Net production for age 0-II fish was highest in upstream and riffle areas because of high densities of young, generalized insectivores. Net production of insectivore-piscivores was highest in downstream and pool habitats. Development of large, stable pools and raceways resulted in decreased fish production due to shifts in age structure toward fewer, large individuals with slower relative growth rates (age III+). Temporal variation in reproductive success and survival of younger age groups (0-I) was associated with random variation in high flow regimes and appeared to be a major factor determining spatial and temporal variation in production. These patterns of fish community structure and function support the qualitative aspect of the stream continuum concept: consistent shifts in community organization are associated with spatial or temporal changes in channel morphology and resource availability. However, for the stream continuum concept to be useful as a quantitative predictor, the ultimate mechanism(s) regulating fish community organization need to be more rigorously established. I hypothesize that in upstream or riffle areas, where younger age classes predominate, recolonization dynamics, the effect of gradual changes in physical conditions on competitive interactions, and temporal variation in reproductive success, are more important than competitive exclusion and predation as determinants of community organization.
10.2307/2937324|Regional and local environmental changes spanning the last 30 000 yr have been reconstructed based on paleoecological studies of the sediments in Rockyhock Bay, a peat-filled Carolina Bay in Chowan County, northeastern North Carolina. During the Plum Point Interstadial (30 000-21 000 BP), temperate forests with both deciduous and coniferous taxa occupied the area. Some boreal elements and constituents of northern hardwoods forests were also present. Climate was somewhat cooler than at present, and Rockyhock was a shallow-water body. During the full-glacial and most of the late-glacial (21 000-10 000 BP), the regional forests were boreal in character and were dominated by northern pines and spruce. Many other boreal taxa were present. The climate was colder, more continental, and drier than at present. Water table in the basin was higher, and there was a dense growth of Isoetes on the bottom sediments. There is indication of slight lowering of water table about 14 400 yr ago. Deciduous forests containing constituents of modern white pine-hemlock-northern hardwoods forests replaced the boreal forests about 10 000 yr ago. By 7200 yr ago, most of the @'northern hardwoods@' taxa had been replaced by other deciduous species including sweetgum. Between 7200 and 5000 yr ago, the water table dropped, peat began to form throughout the basin, and swamp forests with blackgum, cedar, magnolia, and may swamp shrubs began to develop. The swamp forests were modern in aspect by 4000 yr ago. During the last 4000 yr, there is indication of at least one secondary successional change within the bay, perhaps induced by a disturbance such as fire.
10.2307/1942637|The self-thinning rule predicts that for a crowded even-aged plant population a log-log plot of average plant mass vs. plant density will reveal a straight @'self-thinning@' line of slope--@?. The rule is supported by examples from many individual populations, and by the existence of an interspecific relationship that yields a line of slope--@? in a log-log plot displaying average mass and density data from many populations of different species. I examined and reanalyzed the evidence to evaluate the strength of support for this widely accepted rule. Some problems in fitting thinning lines and testing agreement with the rule have no truly satisfactory solution, but three improvements on commonly used methods were made: the analysis related stand biomass density to plant density because the alternative of relating average plant mass to plant density is statistically invalid; principal components analysis was used rather than regression, because regression relies on unrealistic assumptions about errors in the data; and statistical tests of hypotheses were used to interpret the results. The results of this reanalysis were that 19 of 63 individual-population data sets previously cited in support of the thinning rule actually showed no significant correlation between stand biomass density and plant density, and 20 gave thinning slopes significantly different (P < .05) from the thinning rule prediction. Four other analyses provided additional evidence against a single quantitative thinning rule for all plants: slopes of the thinning lines were more variable than currently accepted, differed significantly among plant groups, were significantly correlated with shade tolerance in forest trees, and differed among stands of the same species. The same results held for the intercepts of self-thinning lines. Despite the failure of the thinning rule for individual populations, the combined data for all populations are still consistent with an interspecific relationship of slope--@?; therefore, the existence of the interspecific relationship does not necessarily support the within-population thinning rule. The within-population and interspecific relationships are apparently different phenomena that may arise from different constraints, so the two relationships should be tested and explained separately..
10.2307/1942387|Epiphytic algal and bacterial in situ community metabolism and physiological-nutritional relationships of macrophyte-epiphyte systems were investigated in the littoral zone of a small temperate lake from April 1968 through May 1969. Annual primary productivity, chemo-organotrophy of dissolved organic compounds, and field and laboratory studies of macrophyte-epiphyte interactions were monitored by carbon-14 techniques. Productivity measurements of epiphytic algae on artificial substrates colonized in emergent (Scirpus acutus Muhl.) and submergent (Najas flexilis L. and Chara spp.) macrophytic vegetation sites were compared over an annual period with pigment (corrected chlorophyll a and total plant carotenoids) estimates of biomass. Changes in biomass are not proportional to changes in photosynthetic activity, except during periods of intense productivity. The mean daily productivity of epiphytic algae was higher per unit macrophyte surface area of emergent plants (336 mg C m^-^2 day^-^1) than on submerged plants (258 mg C m^-^2 day^-^1). Mean daily productivity per unit area of the littoral zone, for all of the macrophytic surface area colonized, was 195 and 1,807 mg C m^-^2 day^-^1 in the Scirpus and Najas-Chara dominated sites, respectively. The total annual production by algal epiphytes in the Scirpus and Najas-Chara dominated sites was 2.86 and 35.00 g C m^-^2 of lake surface year^-^1, respectively. Estimates of annual net production of macrophytes and epipelic algae, derived from studies undertaken during the same time period as reported in this study, indicate that epiphytic algae were responsible for 31.3% of the total littoral production. The epiphytic algae were responsible for 21.4% of the total annual production for the whole lake when the production of the pelagial phytoplankton was added to that of the littoral communities. In comparison to the pelagial phytoplankton alone, the algal epiphytes fixed an amount of carbon equivalent to 75% of the phytoplankton production over the annual period. These results indicate that algal epiphytes on submerged macrophytes may be one of the dominant primary producers in shallow-water ecosystems and may be comparable to the phytoplankton. Deposition of ^1^4C-monocarbonates during in situ productivity measurements represented 38.5-71.7% of the total intracellular fixed carbon. Acidification of ^1^4C-productivity samples by rinsing with dilute hydrochloric acid (0.001 N) removed 24% of previously incorporated carbon and is not recommended as a routine procedure. Physiological interactions in macrophyte-epiphyte systems were investigated by bioassay procedure. Inorganic iron added at less than 10 @mg liter ^-^1, and at 100 @mg liter^-^1 in combination with organic compounds of chelatory or complexing ability, stimulated photosynthesis of epiphytic algae. Bioassay experiments in which vitamins, trace metals, and inorganic phosphorus were added to algal photosynthesis. Chlorophyll a, corrected for pheopigment degradation products, and total plant carotenoid levels are among the highest standing crops reported in the literature (annual maximum of chlorophyll a = 7.3 g m^-^2; plant carotenoids = 40.7 SPU m^-^2). Maximum concentrations were found during winter under ice cover. Epiphytic bacterial chemo-organotrophy with glucose and acetate substrates was measured at concentrations of 11-160 @mg liter^-^1 and evaluated through Michaelis-Menten enzyme kinetic analysis. First-order active transport kinetics dominated throughout the annual period. Uptake of acetate (submerged plant site, mean rate = 893 @mg liter^-^1 hr^-^1 dm^-^2; emergent plant site, 106 @mg liter^-^1 hr^-^1 dm^-^2) was greater than that of glucose (submerged plant site, 586 @mg liter^-^1 hr^-^1 dm^-^2; emergent plant site, 54 @mg liter^-^1 hr^-^1 dm^-^2). Scirpus acutus was labeled in situ during photosynthesis with natural concentrations of carbon dioxide (as ^1^4C). Epiphytic uptake of ^1^4C-labeled, extracellular products of macrophytic origin was determined. Extracellular release of ^1^4C-labeled organic matter was followed at various depths in the littoral water column. The nature of the extracellular release and the amount of ^1^4C fixed by the macrophyte and transferred into the epiphytic complex suggests nutritional interactions that may be prevalent in other macrophyte-epiphyte systems. Najas flexilis, germinated and grown under axenic conditions in a defined medium, was labeled during photosynthesis and placed into the center section of Plexiglas chambers separated by membrane filters free of organic carbon contamination. Over a 3.75-hr incubation interval, a mean of 7% of the total intracellularly fixed carbon was excreted as ^1^4C-labeled dissolved organic carbon. Cultured algal and bacterial epiphytes, separately and mixed in simulated natural communities, were able to utilize these extracellular products when placed into chamber sections adjoining the labeled Najas. The amount of extracellular products utilized by the mixed algal and bacterial communities changed with time, depending on the composition of the epiphytic community. The results suggest interspecific interactions where competition for specific external metabolites or organic solutes may have existed, or where toxic extracellular products may have accumulated. Laboratory uptake of low concentrations of glucose and acetate-^1^4C at 5@?, 11@? to 12@?, and 21@? to 23@? C by separate and mixed cultures of algal and bacterial epiphytes showed that uptake was strongly influenced by temperature, except at low temperatures where transport and diffusion mechanisms seemed to be inactivated. A sessile bacterium, Caulobacter, however, showed a highly efficient uptake system for both substrates under cold conditions. Uptake of both substrates by mixed cultures of algae and bacteria showed that bacterial uptake of both substrates by mixed cultures of algae and bacteria showed that bacterial uptake was little influenced at low substrate concentrations by the presence of algae. Epiphytic algal uptake following kinetics of simple diffusion was, however, increased in the presence of bacteria, suggesting uptake of ^1^4CO"2 previously respired by the bacteria. Macrophyte-epiphyte metabolism may be an important source of dissolved organic materials and extracellular metabolites and thus may help to sustain high levels of primary productivity and chemo-organotrophy in lakes.
10.2307/3100055|Phenotypically plastic responses to environmental change are typically compartmentalized by the type of environmental cues that cause the induction (e.g., temperature, light), but different types of environmentally induced responses might very well be related to each other. I used a number of experiments to document competitor-induced behavior and morphology in wood frog tadpoles (Rana sylvatica), to quantify how competitor-induced changes affected subsequent competitive ability, and to investigate the cues responsible for the competitor-induced response. Competitors induced wood frogs to increase their activity and generally develop larger bodies and smaller tails. Further, wood frogs were able to discriminate between intraspecific and interspecific competitors. Whereas behavioral responses to competitors are well documented, the widespread morphological responses are a new discovery; these responses are particularly intriguing because they are in the opposite direction of predator-induced responses in tadpoles. The competitor-induced phenotypes are not simply an allometric effect, but appear to be adaptive responses to competitors; competitor-induced wood frogs experienced higher relative growth rates than noninduced wood frogs in subsequent performance trials, but past studies suggest that the competitor-induced phenotype should experience higher predation risk. When responding to competition, wood frogs were not responding only to reduced food. They were able to sense changes in both the per capita food levels and changes in density (per unit volume) that were independent of per capita food level. Thus, these animals have an amazing ability to sense changes in their environments and respond in very precise ways. When one considers competitor-induced responses in light of past studies on predator-induced phenotypes in larval anurans, one sees that predator-induced traits provide individuals with increased predator resistance but decreased competitive ability, whereas competitor-induced traits provide individuals with increased competitive ability but decreased predator resistance. This suggests that predator- and competitor-induced plasticity have evolved an intricate link that presents a trade-off between competitive ability and predator resistance ability. This trade-off is common across species and makes sense in light of the environments in which wood frogs live, ranging from ponds with high densities of predators and few tadpoles competing to ponds with few predators and extremely high densities of tadpoles competing. Further, there is evidence that this type of plasticity trade-off might be quite common in other phenotypically plastic taxa.
10.2307/3100086|Taxa that are divided into separate populations with low levels of interpopulation dispersal have the potential to evolve genetically based differences in their phenotypes and the plasticity of those phenotypes. These differences can be due to random processes, including genetic drift and founder effects, or they can be the result of different selection pressures among populations. I investigated population-level differences in predator-induced phenotypic plasticity in eight populations of larval wood frogs (Rana sylvatica) over a small geographic scale (interpopulation distances of 0.3-8 km). Using a common-garden experiment containing predator and no-predator environments, I found population differences in behavior, morphology, and life history. These responses exhibited a habitat-related pattern: the four populations from closed-canopy ponds did not differ from each other in any of their phenotypes whereas the four populations from open-canopy ponds did differ from each other in these traits. This phenotypic pattern matches the pattern of competitors and predators found in these two types of ponds. Based on two years of pond surveys, the four closed-canopy ponds contained very similar competitor and predator assemblages while the assemblages of the four open-canopy ponds were more diverse and highly variable among open-canopy ponds. When combined with past studies, which demonstrate that predators and competitors select for alternative behavioral and morphological traits, these patterns suggest that the population differences may have arisen via natural selection and not via random mutation or drift. In a second experiment, I cross-transplanted two of the populations into each other's ponds to determine if the populations were locally adapted to the conditions of their native pond (using low and high competition crossed with the presence or absence of a lethal predator). The populations continued to exhibit phenotypic differences, and one of the two populations tested exhibited superior growth in its native pond. This suggests that some wood frog populations are adapted to the local conditions of their natal pond and that localized selection by predation and competition may be the underlying mechanism. Collectively, these experiments indicate that taxa that are divided into discrete populations and face different predator and competitor environments can evolve different phenotypically plastic responses.
10.2307/1942302|Wizard Island, a @2-square-mile volcanic cinder cone located in Crater Lake, Oregon, was sampled by continuous belt transects. Separation of the one herbaceous and four forested community types, which were mapped as major vegetation units, was remarkably distinct, as 60% of the herbaceous species were found in only one or two communities. Physical factors such as the distribution and stability of substrate materials, temperature extremes, and soil-moisture availability exert the greatest control over plant community structure and development. Biotic factors have reduced effects on the generally sparsely vegetated island. The unstable cinder slope community was dominated by Polygonum newberryi Small., Eriogonum pyrolaefolium Hook. var. coryphaeum T. & G., and Arenaria pumicola Cov. & Leib. Pinus albicaulis Engelm. constituted 55% of the importance value of the crater rim community, but appears to be declining in importance. Pinus contorta is invading the crater area and may slowly replace P. albicaulis. Other characteristic crater rim species were Holodiscus microphyllus Rydb. var. glabrescens (Greenm.) Ley. and Castilleja applegatei Fern. The lower cone and north slope forests were dominated by Abies magnifica Murr. var. shastensis Lemm. and Tsuga mertensian (Bong.) Carr., with Pinus monticola Dougl. the only other important tree species. An importance value of 51% for T. mertensiana in the north slope community as compared with 25% in the lower cone reflects the cooler, moist microclimate and greater community maturity on the north slope. The more tolerant T. mertensiana increases in importance as the stands mature. Characteristic shrub and herb species were Vaccinium membranaceum Dougl. and Luzula glabrata (Hoppe) Desv. in the north slope, and Arctostaphylos nevadensis Gray and Pyrola secunda L. in the lower cone communities, respectively. The lava flow community was largely restricted to recesses between lava ridges where moisture and soil conditions are improved. Tsuga mertensiana was the dominant tree species on the lava flow at 51% importance value, with Sambucus microbotrys Rydb. and Cheilanthes gracillima D. C. Eaton as indicators of the shrub community development was and herb strata. Diversity, total plant density, and herbaceous and shrub community development was greatest in the favorable forest microclimates of the north slope. The north slope, crater rim, lower cone, cinder slope, and lava flow communities had 28, 23, 21, 12, and 10 nonarborescent species, respectively. The reported vascular flora of the island comprises 105 species and varieties. The best forest development occurred in an encircling belt at about 6,400-6,500 ft (1,950-1,980 m) elevation, but tree species characteristic of an elevational range of 2,500 ft (820 m) are telescoped onto the 760-ft-(250-m) high island. Substrate and local climatic diversity and climatic moderation due to lake effects and shielding by the caldera wall permit survival of trees above their usual elevation range. Tree invasion on the upper cone (particularly of Tsuga mertensiana) is slowed more by unstable slopes than by climatic severity. Mat-forming plants, such as Arctostaphylos nevadensis and Penstemon davidsonii Greene, anchor the substrate and serve as nurseries for tree seedlings. Ecesis of tree seedlings on the lava flow occurs only in crevices which exhibit some soil development and microclimatic amelioration. Log density-size class plots gave a straight line relationship for north slope tree species, but all other community types had marked density reductions in some size classes. As such, the north slope community is considered to be in equilibrium at the present level of substrate and microclimatic alteration.
27646079|Plantsoil feedback affects performance and competitive ability of individual plants. However, the importance of plantsoil feedback in historical contigency processes and plant community dynamics is largely unknown. In microcosms, we tested how six early-successional plant species of secondary succession on ex-arable land induced plant-specific changes in soil community composition. Following one growth cycle of conditioning the soil community, soil feedback effects were assessed as plant performance in soil of their own as compared to soil from a mixture of the other five early-successional species. Performance was tested in monocultures and in mixed communities with heterospecific competition from mid-successional species. The role of soil microorganisms was determined by isolating the microbial component from the soil community, re-inoculating microorganisms into sterilized substrate, and analyzing plant biomass responses of the early- and mid-successional species. Plantsoil feedback responses of the early-successional species were negative and significantly increased when the plants were grown in a competitive environment with heterospecifics. In monocultures, three early-successional species experienced negative feedback in soil with a history of conspecifics, while all early-successional species experienced negative feedback when grown with interspecific competition. Interestingly, the nonnative forb Conyza canadensis showed the weakest soil feedback effect. Biomass production of the early-successional plant species was profoundly reduced by the microbial inocula, most strongly when exposed to inocula of conspecific origin. Molecular characterization of the fungal and bacterial rhizosphere communities revealed a relationship between plant biomass production and the composition of the dominant fungal species. Furthermore, our results show that, in early secondary succession, the early-successional plant species induce changes in the soil microbial community composition that cause historical contingency effects in dominance patterns of mid-succession plant communities. We conclude that feedback between early-successional plant species and soil microorganisms can play a crucial role in breaking dominance of early-successional plant communities. Moreover the influences on soil microorganism community composition influenced plant community dynamics in the mid-successional plant communities. These results shed new light on how feedback effects between plants and soil organisms in one successional stage result in a biotic legacy effect, which influences plant community processes in subsequent successional stages.
10.2307/2937111|Steppe communities of interior Alaska are restricted to steep, generally southfacing bluffs. Two competing hypotheses explain this distribution: (1) steppe taxa are restricted to bluffs by their requirements for the abiotic conditions of these sites, and (2) steppe taxa have broader physiological ranges than expressed in nature, but are restricted to bluff sites by competition with other plants. We addressed these hypotheses using correlative and experimental methods to identify controls over the distribution of steppe and forest understory species on Eagle Bluff, Alaska. We developed a causal model and used path analysis, a correlative method, to estimate strengths of hypothesized causal relationships. Based on the results of path analysis we hypothesized that light intensity and soil moisture were important controls over the composition of the vegetation and species distributions. We tested this hypothesis by examining the responses of two species native to steppe (Linum lewisii and Potentilla hookeriana) and two species native to forest (Moehringia lateriflora and Pyrola secunda) to manipulation of light intensity, soil moisture, and soil type. The forest species had reduced survival and biomass when grown in the high light and dry soil moisture characteristic of steppe environments. Conversely, survival of steppe taxa was independent of treatments, and the response of survivors to treatments differed between species. Linum had higher seed production with higher soil moisture than it normally experiences and grew less under lower light intensity. Potentilla responded positively to higher moisture and had weakly negative (but not significant) response to reduced light levels. Our experiments confirmed the importance of light and soil moisture to vegetation on Eagle Bluff, but revealed the individualistic nature of species response to environment.
27646060|Lack of information on ecological characteristics of species across different continents hinders development of general world-scale quantitative vegetation dynamic models. We constructed common scales of shade, drought, and waterlogging tolerance for 806 North American, European/West Asian, and East Asian temperate shrubs and trees representing about 40% of the extant natural Northern Hemisphere species pool. These scales were used to test the hypotheses that shade tolerance is negatively related to drought and waterlogging tolerances, and that these correlations vary among continents and plant functional types. We observed significant negative correlations among shade and drought tolerance rankings for all data pooled, and separately for every continent and plant functional type, except for evergreen angiosperms. Another significant trade-off was found for drought and waterlogging tolerance for all continents, and for evergreen and deciduous angiosperms, but not for gymnosperms. For all data pooled, for Europe and East Asia, and for evergreen and deciduous angiosperms, shade tolerance was also negatively associated with waterlogging tolerance. Quantile regressions revealed that the negative relationship between shade and drought tolerance was significant for species growing in deep to moderate shade and that the negative relationship between shade and waterlogging tolerance was significant for species growing in moderate shade to high light, explaining why all relationships between different tolerances were negative according to general regression analyses. Phylogenetic signal in the tolerance to any one of the three environmental factors studied was significant but low, with only 2124% of cladogram nodes exhibiting significant conservatism. The inverse relationships between different tolerances were significant in phylogenetically independent analyses both for the overall pool of species and for two multispecies genera (Pinus and Quercus) for which reliable molecular phylogenies were available. Only 2.610.3% of the species were relatively tolerant to two environmental stresses simultaneously (tolerance value 3), and only three species were tolerant to all three stresses, supporting the existence of functional trade-offs in adjusting to multiple environmental limitations. These trade-offs represent a constraint for niche differentiation, reducing the diversity of plant responses to the many combinations of irradiance and water supply that are found in natural ecosystems.
23047063|Disturbance interactions have received growing interest in ecological research in the last decade. Fire and bark beetle outbreaks have recently increased in severity and extent across western North America, raising concerns about their possible interactions. Although it is often presumed that bark beetle outbreaks increase probability of active crown fire by producing high loads of surface and canopy dead fuels, empirical data are scarce and results are ambivalent. We combined field measurements and modeling to address the following question: How do fuel characteristics, microclimate, and potential fire behavior change with time since a severe mountain pine beetle outbreak in Pinus contorta forests of Greater Yellowstone (Wyoming, USA)? We measured surface and canopy fuels, and soil surface temperature in a time-since-beetle-outbreak chronosequence (n = 35 sites) from undisturbed to 36 years post-outbreak, including stands in red- and gray-needle stages (respectively, 12 and 35 years post-outbreak). Field data were used to parameterize the fire behavior model NEXUS and predict potential fire behavior at each site. Dead surface fuel loads of all size categories did not differ among undisturbed, red, and gray-stage stands. Compared to undisturbed sites, red and gray-stage sites had on average 53% lower canopy bulk density, 42% lower canopy fuel load, and 29% lower canopy moisture content, but had similar canopy base heights (3.1 m). In subsequent decades, coarse wood loads doubled and canopy base height declined to 0 m. Modeling results suggested that undisturbed, red, and gray-stage stands were unlikely to exhibit transition of surface fires to tree crowns (torching), and that the likelihood of sustaining an active crown fire (crowning) decreased from undisturbed to gray-stage stands. Simulated fire behavior was little affected by beetle disturbance when wind speed was either below 40 km/h or above 60 km/h, but at intermediate wind speeds, probability of crowning in red- and gray-stage stands was lower than in undisturbed stands, and old post-outbreak stands were predicted to have passive crown fires. Results were consistent across a range of fuel moisture scenarios. Our results suggest that mountain pine beetle outbreaks in Greater Yellowstone may reduce the probability of active crown fire in the short term by thinning lodgepole pine canopies.
10.2307/1942639|The effects of fish predation and food availability on population densities and demography of zooplankton were investigated in Dynamite Lake, Illinois, USA, a lake with a high density of size-selective planktivorous fish and low food levels. Fish predators (bluegill sunfish) and food levels (phytoplankton) were manipulated in replicated, factorial-design field experiments during two summers (1980 and 1981). Overall, population densities of zooplankton were affected much more by manipulations of food availability than by manipulations of fish predation. The cladocerans Bosmina longirostris, Ceriodaphnia lacustris, and Diaphanosoma birgei were greatly increased in density by elevated phytoplankton levels in both years, in the presence and absence of fish. Demographic analysis in 1981 revealed that increased densities in response to elevated food levels resulted from both an increase in birth rates (Bosmina, Diaphanosoma) and a decrease in mortality rates (Ceriodaphnia, Diaphanosoma). The rotifers Lecane and Monostyla also increased dramatically in response to elevated phytoplankton densities. Copepods were less responsive to manipulations of food levels, but several taxa exhibited increases in density in response to increased phytoplankton abundance. Few species were reduced in density by fish predation. Ceriodaphnia density was reduced by fish more than any other species in the entire community, and the density of even this species was much more affected by food availability. In terms of percent change relative to controls, increased food availability had much more of an effect than fish predation on the density of most zooplankton species and on total zooplankton abundance. Fish predation had several effects on the size structure and life history traits of the cladocerans. All three species attained larger sizes when fish were excluded than when fish were present. Cladoceran individuals also initiated reproduction at a smaller size and produced smaller offspring in the presence of fish. The reductions in mean body size, size at maturity, and offspring size in the presence of fish were most pronounced in Diaphanosoma and Ceriodaphnia, the two largest species. Smaller body size and size at maturity apparently allow the cladocerans to reproduce before reaching a size at which they become vulnerable to size-selective fish predators. Larger size at first reproduction and larger offspring size in the absence of fish may be a response to invertebrate predators, which assume more importance in the absence of fish and prey most heavily on smaller size classes. Flexibility in these life-history traits allows the cladocerans to withstand what appears to be intense size-selective predation by planktivorous fish.
10.2307/2937024|The concentration, composition, and flux of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) were measured in the Hubbard Brook Valley, New Hampshire. Data on precipitation, throughfall, soil solution, streamside seeps, stream water, and lake water are presented for 1976-1980. Characterization of DOC included analysis of phenolics, monomeric and polymeric carbohydrates, carboxylic acids, primary amines, and aldehydes. DOC concentrations increased with passage of water through the forest canopy and forest floor, decreased due to abiotic sorption in the mineral soil, and remained relatively low in most @'downstream@' ecosystems (streamside seeps, streams, and Mirror Lake). Average flux of DOC is estimated as 16, 47, 263, 54, 23, and 20 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 in precipitation, throughfall, soil solution (E, upper B, and B horizons), and streamflow, respectively. The composition of DOC, in particular the relative proportions of carbohydrates, appears to be related to the degree of biological activity at a given site in the landscape. Carbohydrates are particularly high in both absolute and relative terms in throughfall and lake water, which are the areas of highest photosynthetic activity within the terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, respectively.
4539048|Recent theory, such as the insurance hypothesis, suggests that higher species diversity may dampen perturbation dynamics within a community. The dynamics of a rocky intertidal macroalgal community were evaluated using an experimentally induced heat stress applied at the end of a 15-mo manipulation of diversity. This pulse event produced a gradient of thermal stress within plots and, consequently, different degrees of perturbation. In general, the resistance of the community to the thermal stress was forecast by the pre-stress cover of dominant species, total algal cover, and standing biomass. Because higher diversity treatments, especially those containing the dominant algal group, fucoids, had higher overall abundance, highest diversity treatments were the most severely affected. The stress was also relatively nonselective, in that species were reduced in roughly equivalent proportions, suggesting an important distinction for predicting when diversity will not influence disturbance dynamics. The resilience of the community was strongly dependent on which species were initially present in the plots and the degree of disturbance. In highly disturbed areas, although the recovery trajectory was similar in early successional stages, differences emerged later; these differences appear to be attributable to the composition of the surrounding regeneration pool. For treatments not receiving the thermal stress, low-diversity plots without fucoids remained in states unlike the reference condition for most of the monitored resilience period. But plots in high-diversity treatments, even areas within plots that had experienced moderate disturbance, returned to states similar to the reference quickly. Thus, resilience (but not resistance) results are consistent with the insurance hypothesis. Overall, diversity's influence on community dynamics is complex and will depend on the characteristics of the stress as well as the characteristics of the species present in the community.
10.2307/2937260|Two bryophyte-dominated communities in the maritime Antarctic are analyzed in terms of the transfer and standing crops of organic matter within them. A moss turf dominated by Polytrichum alpestre and Chorisodontium aciphyllum and a moss carpet composed of Calliergon sarmentosum, Calliergidium austro-stramineum, and Drepanocladus uncinatus with the liverwort Cephaloziella varians were investigated at Signy Island, South Orkney Islands. Biomass, respiration, and production data for the primary producers (mosses, lichens, liverworts, and algae), for the fauna (Protozoa, Rotifera, Tardigrada, Nematoda, Acari, and Collembola), and for the microflora were synthesized, and annual rates of consumption, egestion, assimilation, and production were derived. The two communities showed similar levels of productivity, trophic structure, and efficiencies of organic matter transfer, but different Collembola and Acari standing crops, turnover of mosses, and accumulation of dead organic matter. These features are discussed in relation to the role of biotic and abiotic variables in determining community structure and function.
10.2307/1942610|The population dynamics and resource partitioning of five species of spider crabs (Loxorhynchus crispatus, Pugettia producta, Mimulus foliatus, Pugettia richii, and Scyra acutifrons) were measured in a kelp forest on the central California coasts. The distribution of the five species showed zones of peak abundances along a transect from the intertidal zone through the kelp forest to a deep reef. P. richii was the most abundant species with peak densities of 6 crabs/m^2 at the middle and inner edge of the kelp forest. M. foliatus was second most abundant with a peak of 3.5 crabs/m^2 at the middle and outer edge of the kelp forest. S. acutifrons had peak densities of about 3 crabs/m^2 at the outer edge of the kelp forest. P. producta had a peak of 2 crabs/m^2 in the intertidal zone. L. crispatus was present in low densities of about 0.5 crabs/m^2 from the middle of the kelp forest to the deep reef. The greatest combined density of spider crabs (11 crabs/m^2) occurred at the middle of the kelp forest. Densities of all five species in the main study area in the middle of the kelp forest showed a synchronous cycle with a maximum in late summer and fall and a decline in winter to a low in spring. The cycle appeared to be caused by a combination of density-independent mortality from winter swells and storm activity and by slower development and growth rates during the upwelling period of colder water temperatures. Brooding frequencies of all the species remained high year-round. Size structures of the populations did not change during bimonthly sampling, indicating continuous recruitment. Size-frequency analysis of crab populations along the transect indicated that juveniles of Pugettia producta recruit into the intertidal and shallow Phyllospadix zones and migrate out into the kelp forest as they grow, but the other species did not have zones of recruitment separate from adult distribution. The diversity of predators which take spider crabs as a major portion of their diets indicated that the general level of predation pressure is high and may limit the overall population levels of the crabs. Predation by sea otters probably limits the density of P. producta, and the other four species are probably limited by fish predation. The crabs exhibit different color morphs, color change, and decorating behavior, which are adaptive for concealment from predators. Size at maturity of the five species spanned an order of magnitude in carapace width from small Scyra acutifrons (1 cm) to large Loxorhynchus crispatus (10 cm). Mean body size of mature females and mean body size of the entire population of all pairs of species except Mimulus foliatus/Pugettia richii had ratios larger than Hutchinson's (1959) predicted value of 1.28. Body size may reflect limitations of the crabs' utilization of crevice refuges in the microhabitat. Partitioning of the microhabitat resource was measured by substrate utilization. Mimulus foliatus had the largest microhabitat niche breadth and was found on most types of substrates, with an important refuge in kelp holdfasts. Pugettia richii was found primarily on the alga Cystoseira osmundacea and in coralline algal mats. Scyra acutifrons occurred in the interstices of algal/invertebrate turf, and Loxorhynchus crispatus was found on top of the turf. Pugettia producta occurred upon the kelp plants and had the narrowest microhabitat niche breadth. Analysis of stomach contents showed partitioning of food resources. Pugettia producta was a strict specialist grazing on giant kelp, Macrocystis pyrifera. Mimulus foliatus and Pugettia richii also had narrow diets of mostly drift M. pyrifera. Scyra acutifrons had major food categories of detritus, sponge, and pieces of M. pyrifera trapped in the algal-invertebrate turf. Loxorhynchus crispatus was a dietary generalist foraging on a broad range of invertebrates and giant kelp. Niche separation in the guild is multidimensional, and similar utilization of one resource is generally complemented by dissimilar utilization of another resource. Graphical analysis of niche separation for the three dimensions of microhabitat, food, and body size showed that Pugettia producta is an overall specialist and Loxorhynchus crispatus is a generalist. Scyra acutifrons also has a distinct niche within the algal invertebrate turf, but Mimulus foliatus and Pugettia richii exhibit extensive overlap in all of the parameters measured. However, the degree to which a species is a specialist vs. a generalist for a resource did not relate to the amount of niche overlap with the rest of the guild. Microhabitat resources appear to be the most important for niche separation and may also be explained as adaptations for minimizing predation.
27646040|Tree mortality is a critical but understudied process in coniferous forest development. Current successional models assume that mortality during early forest development is dominated by density-dependent processes, but few long-term studies exist to test this assumption. We examined changes in forest structure and patterns of tree mortality 1438 years (19792001) after clear-cut logging of two experimental watersheds in the western Cascade Range of Oregon, USA. We sampled 193 permanent plots (250 m2) six times generating 75 126 data records and 7146 incidents of mortality. Mean density peaked at >3000 stems/ha (1.4 m tall) after 2225 years; bole biomass increased continuously to >100 Mg/ha. At final sampling, stem density varied by two orders of magnitude and biomass by a factor of 10 among sample plots. Suppression mortality occurred in >80% of plots and was >2.5 times as frequent as mechanical damage (uprooting, stem snap, and crushing). However, biomass lost to mortality via mechanical damage was nearly four times that lost to suppression, a result of episodic storms that created windthrow patches, with some plots losing 3050% of biomass. Total annual mortality increased from 1.0% to 5.3% of stems over the study period and was highly variable among species. Although mortality rates were highest for sprouting hardwoods (reaching 9.7% in Cornus nuttallii), biomass of most hardwood species increased through canopy closure as dominant stems achieved large sizes. Shade-tolerant conifers (Tsuga heterophylla and Thuja plicata), typically assumed to be absent or to play a minor role in early forest development, accounted for 26% of stems after 38 years. In regression tree models, environmental attributes of plots had limited ability to predict mortality. Instead, stem density prior to canopy closure was the strongest predictor of cumulative mortality (either suppression or mechanical damage). Our long-term studies suggest that current models of early forest development are overly simplistic, particularly in their treatment of mortality. Although suppression was the dominant demographic process, mechanical damage yielded greater loss of biomass and greater structural heterogeneity through creation of windthrow gaps. Thus, gap-forming processes that operate late in succession and contribute to structural complexity in old-growth forests can also occur early in stand development.
27646169|Despite its widespread occurrence globally, wildfire preferentially occupies an environmental middle ground and is significantly less prevalent in biomes characterized by environmental extremes (e.g., tundra, rain forests, and deserts). We evaluated the biophysical "environmental space" of wildfire from regional to subcontinental extents, with methods widely used for modeling habitat distributions. This approach is particularly suitable for the biogeographic study of wildfire, because it simultaneously considers patterns in multiple factors controlling wildfire suitability over large areas. We used the Maxent and boosted regression tree algorithms to assess wildfireenvironment relationships for three levels of complexity (in terms of inclusion of variables) at three spatial scales: the conterminous United States, the state of California, and five wildfire-prone ecoregions of California. The resulting models were projected geographically to obtain spatial predictions of wildfire suitability and were also applied to other regions to assess their generality and spatial transferability. Predictions of the potential range of wildfire had high classification accuracy; they also highlighted areas where wildfires had not recently been observed, indicating the potential (or past) suitability of these areas. The models identified several key variables that were not suspected to be important in the large-scale control of wildfires, but which might indirectly affect control by influencing the presence of flammable vegetation. Models transferred to different areas were useful only when they overlapped appreciably with the target area's environmental space. This approach should allow exploration of the potential shifts in wildfire range in a changing climate, the potential for restoration of wildfire where it has been "extirpated," and, conversely, the "invasiveness" of wildfire after changes in plant species composition. Our study demonstrates that habitat distribution models and related concepts can be used to characterize environmental controls on a natural disturbance process, but also that future work is needed to refine our understanding of the direct causal factors controlling wildfire at multiple spatial scales.
4539063| Boreal forests at high latitudes are climate-sensitive ecosystems that respond directly to environmental forcing by changing their position according to latitude or by changing their abundance at local and regional scales. South of the arctic treeline, external forcing (warming, cooling, drought, fire) necessarily results in the changing abundance of the impacted forests; in particular, the deforestation of well-drained sites through fire is the most important factor. In this study, we examined the changing abundance of wetland forests located at the arctic treeline (northern Qubec, Canada) during the last 1500 years, a period of known contrasting climatic conditions. Black spruce (Picea mariana) trees submerged in small lakes and peatland ponds and soil-peat stratigraphy were used concurrently to reconstruct the millennial-long developmental sequence of wetland stands associated with moisture changes and fire disturbance. Changing lake levels from AD 300 to the present were identified based on radiocarbon-dated submerged paleosols and treering cross-dating of submerged trees distributed in three wetlands from the same watershed. Dead and living trees in a standing position below and above present water level of a small lake (LE Lake) showed direct evidence of past water levels from the 12th century to the present day. Submerged subfossil trees from another lake (LB Lake) and two peatland ponds (PB Peatland) also responded synchronously to changes in soil moisture during the last 1500 years. Regional-scale catastrophic flooding around AD 1150, inferred from paleosol and subfossil tree data, eliminated riparian peat and wetland trees growing at least since AD 300. Also, the coincidence of events such as the mass mortality of wetland spruce and post-fire deforestation of a small hill surrounding LE Lake during the late 1500s suggests the impact of local-scale flooding, probably attributable to greater snow transportation and accumulation on the lake surface after fire disturbance. Massive tree mortality climaxed at ca. 1750, when all wetland trees at LB Lake and PB Peatland died because of permafrost disturbance and soil upthrusting. Lower water levels from AD 300 to 1750 were associated with drier conditions, possibly caused by greater evaporation and/or reduced snow accumulation. Permafrost development in shallow waters occurred during the Little Ice Age, after 1600. It is concluded that the climate at the eastern Canadian treeline was warmer and drier from AD 300 to the onset of the Little Ice Age and promoted tree establishment. The highest water levels were recorded recently (19th and 20th centuries), causing lake and peatland expansion. Any future moisture changes at these subarctic latitudes will result in important spatial rearrangements of wetland ecosystems. 
10.2307/1942538|I describe the nonbreeding finch community of several habitats in continental Kenya, East Africa, and compare it with previously described communities of granivorous finches on Galapagos islands. The purpose of the comparison is to explore differences in structure between communities that have evolved on a continent and on an isolated archipelago, and to suggest reasons for the differences. The ultimate goal is to infer the factors important in the evolution of finch communities, of which the majority have a continental origin. Four factors that might be expected to influence finch communities differently in Kenya than Galapagos are: a greater diversity of possible competitors, an abundance of predators, movement between localities, and a greater diversity of resources. Differences predicted on the basis of these four factors are compared with actual differences between Kenya and Galapagos, in order to estimate their relative importance. The communities of Kenya and Galapagos were surprisingly different. Despite the greater age of the Kenya fauna, the diversity of beak sizes was less, the range of seed sizes exploited was less, and the overall utilization of seed resources by finches was incomplete. Species in Kenya were more differentiated by habitat, microhabitat, and seed species, and less differentiated by seed size than finches in Galapagos. Diets were on average more taxonomically specialized, and associations between diet and beak and body dimensions were correspondingly weaker. Kenya finches were sensitive to the proximity of trees and shrubs (cover) while foraging. These results, together with observations from a limited number of other studies, suggest that a dichotomy may exist between the finch communities of continents and isolated archipelagos. However, like Galapagos, local finch density in Kenya was related to food abundance, and diet overlaps between species coexisting in the same locality were low. Comparison of results with predictions from hypotheses based on the four factors suggests that competition among the large diversity of granivorous species in Kenya (i.e., finches and other granivorous birds, rodents, and ants) is a major reason for the differences between the finch communities of Kenya and Galapagos. The narrow range of beak and seed sizes used by finch species in Kenya is consistent with competition from other taxa, and competition between the many finch species constrained to a narrow range of seed sizes may explain the more pronounced habitat, microhabitat, and diet specializations. Thus, while the finch communities of continents and isolated archipelagos may differ in structure, there is an indication that in large part they represent alternative outcomes of the same process. Predation risk is the most likely cause of a preference for feeding near cover in Kenya, and it may explain why certain seed resources are not exploited by finches, such as ground seeds in areas of poor visibility (dense grasses). Most species appeared to be similarly sensitive to risk of predation; for example, finch species showed little partitioning along an axis of distance to cover. Thus, the main effect of predation on community evolution in Kenya may have been to further confine the resource spectrum available to finches, a role similar to that of competition from other taxa. There was no evidence that the effects of competition within localities were swamped by an influx of immigrant individuals and species. However, lesser indirect effects of movement may be present; movement may elevate local species diversity and thereby influence community structure by increasing the diversity of potential competitors and predators. The prediction that a greater diversity of resources in Kenya would lead to a greater diversity of morphological forms was not upheld, suggesting that resource differences are less influential than other factors.
10.2307/2937132|I examined the recruitment of reef fishes to isolated experimental standard-size coral colonies supporting residents of each of four planktivorous fishes: (a) Dascyllus aruanus, (b) D. reticulatus (both at several densities), (c) Chromis caerulea, or (d) Pomacentrus popei. I removed all recruits at approximately weekly intervals, and summed larval recruitment over each of two settlement seasons. I found two types of interactions between resident fishes and recruits: (1) There was increased settlement of three species in sites where there were resident conspecifics. This appears to be due to habitat selection by settling larvae. More larval D. aruanus, D. reticulatus, and C. caerulea recruited to corals with resident conspecifics than to corals with other congeners or vacant control corals. In addition, corals with the highest densities of resident D. aruanus and D. reticulatus received the most conspecific recruits. (2) The presence of high densities of resident D. aruanus and D. reticulatus reduced recruitment of heterospecific larvae in all cases for which data were sufficient to allow a powerful test. The presence of C. caerulea reduced recruitment of some species but not others. This interspecific effect could be due to habitat selection by settling larvae, and/or emigration and mortality caused by aggressive interactions with residents. Some species were unaffected by the presence of resident P. popei, but the data for most species were inconclusive. Interactions of the first type may be the cause of the clumped distributions of other reef fishes, though this does not seem to hold in some known instances. Interactions of the second type do not seem to be directly related to resource availability. There are biological and statistical reasons why the likelihood of finding such interactions will be positively correlated with the supply of recruits. The general significance of these interactions for the structure of reef fish assemblages will depend on (1) the level of larval supply, and (2) the number and abundance of species that show this kind of behavior.
10.2307/2937357|In the northern hardwood forest, growth of vernal photosynthetic herbs is temporally restricted to the period between spring snowmelt and summer canopy development. This characteristic suggests that several unique adaptations exist which allow the species to complete their life cycles, and that temporal separation of production in the herbaceous layer may add to structural and functional complexity of the ecosystem. Erythronium americanum Ker. (Liliaceae) was examined in central New Hampshire with respect to its natural history, growth characteristics and influence on energy flow and mineral cycling in the deciduous forest ecosystem. Growth leading to the early spring development of photosynthetic tissue begins with fall root growth and continues through a long winter phase during which the shoot elongates from the perennating organ, through the soil and into the snowpack. Following snowmelt, the shoots begin rapid unfurling and maturation of the photosynthetic tissue. The length of the mature leaf phase is controlled by the timing of snowmelt and canopy development, and may be quite variable between successive years. During the short period of production, total biomass increased by 190% in 1972 and 338% in 1973; however, plant weight at the end of the winter period in 1973 had decreased to 28% of the spring 1972 maximum. In the annual energy cycle, biomass losses during the nonphotosynthetic period may amount to more than production during the preceding spring. In comparison with summer green herbs, Erythronium shoot tissue contained significantly higher concentrations of N but lower levels of K, Mg and Ca, suggesting that the spring adaptation may be oriented toward higher N levels of the soil during the spring period as well as higher light levels at the forest floor. Significant correlations of biomass of vernal photosynthetic herbs with summer green species imply that temporally separated species may utilize the same physical site and resources. This adds to the structural complexity and production of the herbaceous layer; however, the vernal photosynthetics account for only 0.5% of total aboveground primary production of the ecosystem. The temporal character of Erythronium's growth and its capacity for rapid biomass accumulation combine to make it a significant factor in nutrient dynamics in the deciduous forest. Uptake of N and K during spring flushing of nutrients from the ecosystem and later release through senescence of shoot tissue appear to reduce gross ecosystem losses of these elements.
10.2307/2963458|We examined changes in understory vegetation under an intact forest canopy during the first decade following the deposition of tephra (aerially transported volcanic ejecta) during the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens, Washington State, USA. Objectives were (1) to document vegetation response to a major disturbance that has received little attention but is widespread and relatively frequent in the northwestern United States, and (2) to analyze vegetation responses in terms of characteristics of the disturbance, responses of growth forms as well as those of species, components of vegetation change, and species autecology. We used permanent plots at four study sites, representing two tephra depths ( 4.5 and 15 cm), to examine understory vegetation change in old-growth, subalpine conifer forests. The two sites at each tephra depth differed in understory vegetation and amount of snowpack at the time of disturbance. At each site, plant cover and density were measured in 100 1-m
10.2307/1942653|During the dry season of 1974, collections of the purple-striped gudgeon Mogurnda mogurnda were taken from the Finniss River of the Northern Territory; during the wet season, this river receives acidic and metallic pollutants from the formerly mined area of Rum Jungle. The fish consumed a great variety of foods, with high abundances of Dytiscidae, Chironomidae, Ceratopogonidae, Trichoptera, Odonata, Copepoda, Decapoda, and Pisces. Within polluted and unpolluted zones of the river; the dietary abundances of some foods varied with the size of the consuming fish and with habitat descriptors. For no food was there a significant regression against habitat descriptors in both of the zones; this emphasizes that pollution effects are more complex than simply depression or raising the abundances of the dietary species. Five foods were more abundant in the diets of the polluted zone, and three in those of the unpolluted zone. The dietary abundances of two foods, both crustacean, increased in the polluted zone, compared to the unpolluted zone, through the dry season. Two categories of foods: (1) those obtaining oxygen directly from the atmosphere or via a film or bubble of air; and (2) the converse set (aquatic respirers), were contrasted for their usefulness in distinguishing between the zones, by both hierarchical agglomerative and discriminant function analyses. Aquatic respirers were the more effective. The polluted collections were more heterogeneous than the unpolluted ones in both the hierarchical and the discriminant analyses. One collection from the polluted zone was reclassified as unpolluted on the basis of its grouping behavior. The relevance for pollution studies of dietary analysis of euryphagous fish, rather than sampling aquatic fauna directly, is discussed in terms of food substitution, switching, strategies for abundance and recovery by the fauna, and possibly effects of the pollutants on the fish as an intervening collector. Downstream patterns of abundance of the invertebrate fauna in this study are broadly similar to those of other studies in which such chemically diverse metals as Pb, Zn, and Cu are the pollutants, but there are differences for some faunal components. Difficulties in the comparison and causal interpretation of results of pollution studies in the field stem from a lack of experimental data on tolerances to pollutants and causes of abundance of stream invertebrates. However, because of the great detail required in such data, more profit for purposes of prediction may derive from experimental multivariate studies on faunal assemblages.
10.2307/2937358|About 800 Microtus ochrogaster were live-trapped at biweekly intervals from May 1971 through March 1973 in 3 grassland study areas in eastern Kansas, USA. Details of reproduction were determined by autopsy. Population density increased through the first winter, reached a peak in April 1972, then declined sharply during that summer and beyond. Body length, but not body mass, tended to be positively related to density. Both sexes matured at about the same weight; development was somewhat prolonged during the winter months, especially in the winter preceding the population peak. Pregnancy rates were high, approaching maximal iteroparity, throughout the study, with intervals of nonbreeding in both Julys, and in August and December of the population decline. Embryo counts increased significantly during the months of peak density but did not diminish in the period of the population decline. There was no association between either maternal weight or parity and number of embryos. Corpora counts were not higher in heavy or multiparious @V @V, nor did the level of prenatal mortality increase during the period of greatest density. Except for a few individuals taken in July and August 1971, @M @M with a mass 30 g or more were judged to be fertile, as were a majority of the 20 to 29-g @M @M. Body weight and testes weight were significantly correlated in fertile @M @M but not in nonfertile @M @M. These reproductive findings were applied to a model of population regulation of microtine cycles. The pattern of reproduction of Kansas and Indiana prairie voles was compared. Three concordant lines of evidence seem to indicate that Kansas and possibly other geographical populations of prairie voles have adjusted the breeding schedule to accommodate both hot and dry summers and cold, snowy winters. Pregnancy rate, litter size, and adjusted testes weight all show a significant increase in March--April and September--October and a decrease in midsummer and midwinter. Thus the pattern of reproduction of Kansas prairie voles may represent a composite of the patterns shown by the dry-adapted species, such as Microtus californicus, and the cold-adapted microtines, such as Microtus pennsylvanicus. Based on the observations of this study, Kansas prairie voles seem to have adjusted to both harsh seasons by breeding more or less continuously, with the midsummer depression possibly reflecting the Great Plains origin of the species, and the winter depression being a facultative response to weather, density, or quality of habitat.
23596741|A warming climate may increase the frequency and severity of stand-replacing wildfires, reducing carbon (C) storage in forest ecosystems. Understanding the variability of postfire C cycling on heterogeneous landscapes is critical for predicting changes in C storage with more frequent disturbance. We measured C pools and fluxes for 77 lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta Dougl. ex Loud var. latifolia Engelm.) stands in and around Yellowstone National Park (YNP) along a 300-year chronosequence to examine how quickly forest C pools recover after a stand-replacing fire, their variability through time across a complex landscape, and the role of stand structure in this variability. Carbon accumulation after fire was rapid relative to the historical mean fire interval of 150300 years, recovering nearly 80% of prefire C in 50 years and 90% within 100 years. Net ecosystem carbon balance (NECB) declined monotonically, from 160 g Cm 2 yr 1 at age 12 to 5 g Cm 2 yr 1 at age 250, but was never negative after disturbance. Decomposition and accumulation of dead wood contributed little to NECB relative to live biomass in this system. Aboveground net primary productivity was correlated with leaf area for all stands, and the decline in aboveground net primary productivity with forest age was related to a decline in both leaf area and growth efficiency. Forest structure was an important driver of ecosystem C, with ecosystem C, live biomass C, and organic soil C varying with basal area or tree density in addition to forest age. Rather than identifying a single chronosequence, we found high variability in many components of ecosystem C stocks through time; a >50% random subsample of the sampled stands was necessary to reliably estimate the nonlinear equation coefficients for ecosystem C. At the spatial scale of YNP, this variability suggests that landscape C develops via many pathways over decades and centuries, with prior stand structure, regeneration, and within-stand disturbance all important. With fire rotation projected to be <30 years by mid century in response to a changing climate, forests in YNP will store substantially less C (at least 4.8 kg C/m2 or 30% less).
10.2307/2937050|Loess-dominated ecosystems cover @?14%(11 000 km^2) of the Arctic Coastal Plain and much of the northern portion of the Arctic Foothills. Knowledge of this poorly known ecosystem is important for sound land-use planning of the expanding developments in the region and for understanding the paleoecological dynamics of eolian systems that once dominated much of northern Alaska. A conceptual alkaline-tundra toposequence includes eight common vegetation types and associated soils that occur near the arctic coast. A model of the regional loess gradient describes soils and vegetation downwind of the Sagavanirktok River. The addition of calcareous loess affects numerous soil properties, including bulk density, pH, water retention properties, concentrations of soil nutrients, and seasonal thaw depths. Many plant taxa, particularly cryptogams, increase in abundance downwind of the river, apparently in response to higher amounts of nutrients and moisture associated with finer soil-particle sizes and greater organic content. For example, the highest extractable P values (8-12 @mg/g) occur in areas with circumneutral pH and finer grained soils, and low P values (<2@mg/g) occur in acidic soils north of the loess region. Early, minerotrophic stages of tundra succession are maintained by loess blown from the Sagavanirktok, Canning, and other large braided-river floodplains. Areas downwind of these rivers provide analogues for vegetation that existed in unstable areas of the Alaskan Coastal Plain during and following full glacial conditions. Total aboveground phytomass in wet acidic sites at Prudhoe Bay (163@+21 g/m^2) is close to values from similar sites at Barrow and Devon Island. Only a small amount of data is available for alkaline areas, but there is indication of lower biomass near the major rivers, suggesting a response to lower nutrient regimes. Properties of loess tundra important for land-use planning include: (1) its high ice content, which contributes to its susceptibility to thermokarst; (2) high salinities, which hamper revegetation efforts; and (3) presence of certain plant species such as Dryas intergrifolia, which are particularly sensitive to disturbance. The loess gradient provides a natural analogue for road dust, an extensive disturbance associated with oil-field development.
10.2307/2963521|Why corals dominate tropical reefs but are rare or absent on temperate reefs is one of the more intriguing global-scale questions in marine ecology. Restriction of corals from temperate reefs has been suggested to be due to low temperature, competition with seaweeds, and synergistic interactions of physical and biological factors. However, most studies addressing these hypotheses have been non-experimental and conducted on tropical corals and reefs near the extremes of their distribution rather than in temperate habitats using corals that are physiologically suited to temperate environments. Some corals occur only in temperate regions, but their ecology is largely unstudied. In an attempt to understand how temperate corals function at latitudes where corals are relatively rare and where reefs tend to be dominated by seaweeds, we examined responses of the temperate coral Oculina arbuscula to competition with seaweeds on reefs in North Carolina (USA). We asked how competitive interactions were affected by levels of grazing, nutrients, or interactions of these factors. Sampling of 12 reef habitats ranging from 1 m deep, inshore sites to 25 m deep, offshore sites demonstrated a strong negative relationship between percentage cover of seaweeds and density of Oculina colonies. Seaweeds dominated well-lit habitats (shallow inshore reefs or deep offshore reefs with clear waters), while coral was significantly more abundant in low-light habitats where seaweeds were rare (deep inshore habitats or nearshore reefs with turbid waters). This general among-site pattern also occurred within an individual site as one moved from shallow, well-lit waters to deeper, darker waters. Corals transplanted into seaweed-dominated areas grew well if seaweed canopies were removed but grew poorly, or not at all, if canopies were left intact. Seaweeds also significantly inhibited recruitment of O. arbuscula. At a turbid inshore reef, recruitment was high at a depth of 6 m where seaweeds were rare, but very low at a depth of 1 m where seaweeds were abundant. Removal of seaweeds from shallow plots increased recruitment about 12-fold to levels that did not differ significantly from those at 6 m. In grazer-exclusion cages on offshore reefs, Oculina recruitment varied significantly between sites and years. Almost no recruitment was observed at a well-lit, plant-dominated site while recruitment was higher, to very high, at a turbid site with few seaweeds. At this turbid site, recruitment was facilitated by grazing but could not be related to grazer effects on seaweeds. Facilitation was apparently due to consumers removing barnacles, which dominated this low-light site if grazers were excluded. Cage exclusion of larger herbivores at two offshore sites (primarily fishes) and one inshore site (fishes and urchins) had no significant effect on coral growth. At the well-lit inshore site, herbivores had a large effect on the species composition of the seaweed community, but little effect on the total abundance of seaweeds. Large grazers caused palatable red seaweeds to be replaced by similar amounts of unpalatable brown seaweeds. Therefore, herbivory alone had little impact on total seaweed abundance and the levels of seaweed competition affecting co-occurring O. arbuscula. In contrast, when we conducted a factorial experiment manipulating both herbivory and nutrient levels, exclusion cages significantly reduced coral growth. In this experiment, nutrient addition had no effect on brown seaweeds but significantly increased the percentage cover of red seaweeds in exclusion cages. Nutrient addition also tended to suppress coral growth in herbivore-exclusion cages where red seaweeds were stimulated, but to increase coral growth in open cages where herbivores had removed the red seaweeds. Thus, nutrients and herbivory may have acted synergistically to affect seaweeds, and hence corals, on this temperate reef. Different groups of algae (red vs. brown) experienced differential degrees of nutrient limitation and exerted differential competitive effects on corals at this site. Our findings show that competition with seaweeds plays a large role in excluding Oculina from well-lit temperate reefs, and support the hypothesis that seaweed competition may interact with latitudinal changes in physical parameters to limit coral recruitment, growth, and accumulation at high latitudes, thus suppressing the potential for reef development.
10.2307/2937121|Forests exhibit much variation in light environments, and this can affect communication among animals, communication between animals and plants, photosynthesis, and plant morphogenesis. Light environments are caused by, and can be predicted from, the geometry of the light paths, the weather conditions, and the time of day. The structure of forests leads to four major light habitats when the sun is not blocked by clouds: forest shade, woodland shade, small gaps, and large gaps. These are characterized by yellow-green, blue-gray, reddish, and @'white@' ambient light spectra, respectively. When the sun is blocked by clouds, the spectra of these four habitats converge on that of large gaps and open areas, so the single light environment during cloudy weather will be called open/cloudy. An additional light environment (early/late) is associated with low sun angles (near dawn or dusk); it is purplish. Each light environment is well defined and was found in forests of Trinidad, Panama, Costa Rica, Australia, California, and Florida. Scattered literature references suggest similar patterns elsewhere in North America, Europe, and Java. Perceived colors of animals, flowers, and fruits depend upon the interaction between ambient light color and the reflectance color of the animal or plant parts. As a result, an animal or plant may have a different appearance in each environment, i.e., a color pattern may be relatively cryptic in some light environments while relatively conspicuous in others. This has strong implications for the joint evolution of visual signals and vision, as well as microhabitat choice. Plant growth and form may also be affected by variation in the color of forest light.
10.2307/2937118|This paper addresses questions of community and patch stability as defined by the population biology of dominant plants in the context of different areas within a large kelp forest. We ask (1) @'Do large-scale episodic events override biological mechanisms as major community structuring processes?@', (2) @'Are different local areas characterized by different processes?@', and (3) @'How persistent are the patches or biological structure over decal and local spatial scales?@' We evaluate these questions with regard to the effects of various types of disturbance for as much as three decades on the populations of several species of kelp in the large kelp forest off Point Loma, San Diego, California. The most sensitive population factors we studied include recruitment, density, and survivorship. Patch stability was evaluated with regard to the persistence of patches already well established in 1971-1972. The study sites offer a cross-shore transect through the central part of a large kelp forest at depths of 8, 12, 15, 18, and 21 m; two additional sites at the north and south ends of the forest offer a longshore transect along the 18-m contour. There were marked differences among the decades with regard to the intensity of the disturbances. Compared with the 1980s, the two preceding decades were relatively benign. The 1980s had two extreme disturbance events: the 1982-1984 El Gino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) was the most severe El Nino event in the last century, which included very warm, nutrient-depleted water, and a short but intense storm in January 1988 appeared to have been the most severe in perhaps 200 yr. The storm changed age-specific kelp mortality patterns and caused the first large-scale understory mortality in several decades. By sweeping away drift algae it caused intense local urchin grazing. The storm was followed by a strong La Nina event marked by cool, nutrient-rich water in 1988-1989. Differences in kelp recruitment and survivorship in different areas of the kelp forest are influenced by gradients in longshore currents, temperature, light, wave energy, floc, planktonic propagules, and physical disturbance. The areas are characterized by different plant population patterns and the effects of several species of herbivores. The massive disturbances of the 1980s obliterated much of the structure in the kelp forest. Certainly the disturbances caused many lag effects including outbreaks of understory algae such as Desmarestia ligulata, intraspecific competition, changes in grazing patterns, etc., which in turn resulted in between-area variation in recovery rates. However, in all cases this variation was overshadowed by the overwhelming competitive dominance of Macrocystis pyrifera. Most of the understory patches on the transect lines, some of which had persisted for 7 yr, died out by the end of 1990. The population biology of Macrocystis was remarkably similar in most areas, as the cohort longevity and survivorship curves were very similar, and the plant and stipe densities tended to level off in only a few years. Thus large-scale episodic events such as El Ninos, La Ninas, and rare storms exert dramatic impacts, but small-scale responses such as density-vague recruitment (neither density dependent nor density independent) and survival allow prompt recovery, often to preexisting patterns. The one exception was the southern site, which was marked by sea urchin grazing and poor kelp recruitment through the latter half of the 1980s, but a recent sea urchin disease event has led to kelp recruitment in fall 1991. A seeming paradox to the observed Macrocystis dominance is that in almost all areas, some understory patches of old plants have persisted through the 1980s.
43187890|Habitat connectivity influences the distribution dynamics of animals. Connectivity can therefore shape trophic interactions, but little empirical evidence is available, especially for large mammals. In forest ecosystems, logging alters functional connectivity among habitat patches, and such activities can affect the spatial game between large herbivores and their predators. We used graph theory to evaluate how harvesting-induced changes in habitat connectivity influence patch choice and residency time of GPS-collared caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou) and moose (Alces alces) in winter in the boreal forest. We then investigated the predator-prey game by assessing how GPS-collared wolves (Canis lupus) adjusted their movements to changes in landscape properties and in the networks of their prey species. We built prey habitat networks using minimum planar graphs organized around species-specific, highly selected habitat patches (i.e., network nodes). We found that spatial dynamics of large herbivores were influenced not only by the intrinsic quality of habitat patches, but also by the connectivity of those network nodes. Caribou and moose selected nodes that were connected by a high number of links, and moose also spent relatively more time in those nodes. By limiting node accessibility, human disturbances influenced travel decisions. Caribou and moose avoided nodes that were surrounded by a high proportion of cuts and roads, but once within these nodes, moose stayed longer than in other nodes. Caribou selectively moved among nodes with low distance costs, and their residency time increased with distance costs required to reach the nodes. Wolves selected their prey's nodes, where vegetation consumed by caribou and moose was highly abundant. Furthermore, wolves discriminated among those nodes by selecting the most connected ones. In fact, selection by wolves was stronger for their prey's nodes than for the prey's utilization distribution per se, a difference that increased with the level of human disturbance. Considering the difficulty of keeping track of highly mobile prey, predators may benefit by targeting not only their prey's resource patches, but also the most highly connected patches. Matrix quality and connectivity are therefore key elements shaping the predator-prey spatial game in human-altered landscapes because of their impact on the spatial dynamics of the interacting species.
10.2307/1942355|An objective technique was used to identify and study related groups of chaetognath species from the Southwest Indian Ocean off the coast of the Republic of South Africa. Groups or community-type data agreed with, corroborated, and extended the scope of data on single species, multiple species and hydrographic conditions. The most representative groups were from the data of the N70V-nets which formed 3 groups. The 1st (or main) group was composed of 9 species and was distributed as a unit almost solely in the upper 200 meters of oceanic waters, and occurred in neritic waters only when @> 1 to 2 species were absent. This agrees with and corroborates individual species data as each was, according to its distribution and abundance, a resident of the general ocean and each showed, except 3 species found predominantly in deeper waters, a positive correlation with the flow-pattern of the Agulhas current. The 2nd (or associate) group of 3 species was found 61% of the time at mixed-water stations, the best of these being located along a line where mixing between neritic waters and the Agulhas current was most likely to occur. Hydrographic data gave no indication of the latter. The 3rd group was made up of 1 oceanic- species which was distinctive by virtue of its vertical distribution; it was a mesoplanktonic beast, inhabiting water @>200 m in depth. Species fecundity correlated quite well with each group and its distribution, in that neritic individuals of only one species of the 1st (main) group contained significantly more eggs than corresponding oceanic individuals whereas neritic individuals of all 3 species of the 2nd (associate) group contained significantly more eggs than corresponding oceanic individuals. This evidence suggests that the species of each group were reacting similarly to their environment and that fecundity is a suitable index to hydrographic conditions. Despite the close similarity of chaetognath species in regard to their habitats and niches considerable overlap existed among the species as a result of differences in their horizontal and vertical distributions, in their abundances, in their size relationships, in food diversity which apparently allows for some specialization in feeding but not in a rigid manner, and finally in structural aspects of the food chain itself as 2 of the larger species appeared to function as 2nd-order carnivores.
43188347|In the analysis of spatial point patterns, an important role is played by statistical tests based on simulation envelopes, such as the envelope of simulations of Ripley's K function. Recent ecological literature has correctly pointed out a common error in the interpretation of simulation envelopes. However, this has led to a widespread belief that the tests themselves are invalid. On the contrary, envelope-based statistical tests are correct statistical procedures, under appropriate conditions. In this paper, we explain the principles of Monte Carlo tests and their correct interpretation, canvas the benefits of graphical procedures, measure the statistical performance of several popular tests, and make practical recommendations. There are several caveats including the under-recognized problem that Monte Carlo tests of goodness of fit are probably conservative if the model parameters have to be estimated from data. Finally, we discuss whether graphs of simulation envelopes can be used to infer the scale of spatial interaction.
10.2307/1942352|@'Switching@' in predators which attack several prey species potentially can stabilize the numbers in prey populations. In switching, the number of attacks upon a species is disproportionately large when the species is abundant relative to other prey, and disproportionately small when the species is relatively rare. The null case for two prey species can be written: P"1/P"2 = cN"1/N"2, where P"1/P"2 is the ratio of the two prey expected in the diet, N"1/N"2 is the ratio given and c is a proportionality constant. Predators were sea-shore snails and prey were mussels and barnacles. Experiments in the laboratory modelled aspects of various natural situations. When the predator had a strong preference (c) between prey the data and the @'null case@' model were in good agreement. Preference could not altered by subjecting predators to training regimens. When preference was weak the data did not fit the model replicates were variable. Predators could be trained easily to one or other prey species. From a number of experiments it was concluded that in the weak-preference case no switch would occur in nature except where there is an opportunity for predators to become trained to the abundant species. A patchy distribution of the abundant prey could provide this opportunity. Given one prey species, snails caused a decreasing percentage mortality as prey numbers increased. This occurred also with 2 prey species present when preference was strong. When preference was weak the form of the response was unclear. When switching occurred the percentage prey mortality increased with prey density, giving potentially stabilizing mortality. The consequences of these conclusions for prey population regulation and for diversity are discussed.
10.2307/2657168|Most general theories proposed to explain the trophic structure of communities ignore the possibility that insect outbreaks can severely damage vegetation and reduce the abundance of dominant plant species over vast areas. Specialist chrysomelid beetles can irrupt and defoliate goldenrods (Solidago spp.), a group of widespread, long-lived, herbaceous perennials. We examined the long-term effects (10 yr) of suppressing insects, using insecticide in replicated plots on the structure and diversity of an old field dominated by the goldenrod, Solidago altissima. An outbreak of the chrysomelid beetle, Microrhopala vittata, that specializes on S. altissima, occurred during the experiment and persisted several years. Damage caused by this outbreak dramatically reduced the biomass, density, height, survivorship, and reproduction of S. altissima. Herbivore exclusion caused the formation of dense stands of goldenrods with a twofold increase in both standing crop biomass and litter. The understory in these dense stands had significantly lower plant abundance, species richness, flowering shoot production, and light levels; these conditions persisted for years following the outbreak. Thus, M. vittata functioned as a keystone species. Furthermore, insect herbivory indirectly increased the abundance of invading trees, thereby increasing the rate of succession, by speeding the transition of this old field to a tree-dominated stage. We conducted two follow-up experiments to test the hypothesis that insects altered community dynamics by their indirect effect on litter accumulation and light availability in the understory. In the first experiment, we tied back the canopy to increase light into the understory and removed litter in both the insecticide-treated and control plots. We found little effect of removing litter. By contrast, increasing understory light levels significantly increased understory forb abundance and species richness. In the second experiment, we placed rosettes of Hieracium pratense, the dominant understory forb, under nine levels of shade cloth, ranging from 95% shade to full sun. Flowering-shoot production was a linear function of light availability (r
10.2307/1942601|Myrica faya, an introduced actinorhizal nitrogen fixer, is invading young volcanic sites in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. We examined the population biology of the invader and ecosystem-level consequences of its invasion in open-canopied forests resulting from volcanic cinder-fall. Although Myrica faya is nominally dioecious, both males and females produce large amounts of fruit that are utilized by a number of exotic and native birds, particularly the exotic Zosterops japonica. In areas of active colonization, Myrica seed rain under perch trees of the dominant native Metrosideros polymorpha ranged from 6 to 60 seeds@?m^-2@?yr^-^1; no seeds were captured in the open. Planted seeds of Myrica also germinated and established better under isolated individuals of Metrosideros than in the open. Diameter growth of Myrica is >15-fold greater than that of Metrosideros, and the Myrica population is increasing rapidly. Rates of nitrogen fixation were measured using the acetylene reduction assay calibrated with ^1^5N. Myrica nodules reduced acetylene at between 5 and 20 @mmol@?g^-^1@?h^-^1, a rate that extrapolated to nitrogen fixation of 18 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 in a densely colonized site. By comparison, all native sources of nitrogen fixation summed to 0.2 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1, and precipitation added <4 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1. Measurements of litter decomposition and nitrogen release, soil nitrogen mineralization, and plant growth in bioassays all demonstrated that nitrogen fixed by Myrica becomes available to other organisms as well. We concluded that biological invasion by Myrica faya alters ecosystem-level properties in this young volcanic area; at least in this case, the demography and physiology of one species controls characteristics of a whole ecosystem.
10.2307/2937093|Estes and Steinberg hypothesized that the intensity of sublittoral marine plant-herbivore interactions among different temperate regions has differed over the past 5-10 million yr, due to differences in the influence of diving mammals that prey on marine herbivores. They argued that because diving predators have not occurred in temperate Australasia, densities of sublittoral herbivores have been historically higher there than in comparable North American systems. This has resulted in marine algae and herbivores in temperate Australasia having strong selective effects on each other. Estes and Steinberg predicted that one result of these strong interactions would be that invertebrate herbivores in temperate Australasia should have evolved greater tolerance to brown algal phlorotannins (polyphenolic compounds that are the dominant secondary metabolites in temperate brown seaweeds) than similar herbivores in North America. We tested this prediction for five invertebrate herbivores in temperate Australasia. Most work was done on three herbivores from New South Wales, Australia, the sea urchins (echinoids) Tripneustes gratilla and Centrostephanus rodgersii, and the gastropod (snail) Turbo undulata. Additional experiments were done using Evechinus chloroticus (urchin) and Cookia sulcata (gastropod) from New Zealand. Both the short-term effects of phlorotannins on feeding behavior, and the longer term effects of phlorotannins on the growth or mortality of herbivores were assessed by (a) feeding the herbivores an array of algal species that varied in their phenolic content, and (b) extracting mixed fractions of phlorotannins from the algae and using these extracts to experimentally manipulate the phlorotannin content of palatable agar disks. The phenolic content of algae used in feeding experiments in Australia was sampled seasonally for 3 yr, and the algae were divided into two groups. These included a phenolic-rich group of five species with a mean phenolic content = 7.02% dry mass (range of species means 6.6-7.2%), and a phenolic-poor group of four species with a mean of 2.69% (range of means = 2.2-3.1%). In strong contrast to earlier results from North America, no Australian herbivore consistently preferred phenolic-poor species over those rich in phenolics. Algal phenolic levels also were not correlated with feeding preferences of the New Zealand herbivores. The Australian herbivores were generally not deterred by the addition of extracted phlorotannins to agar disks at concentrations of 5 mg/mL (13.5% dry mass) in the disks. However, some extracts deterred some herbivores, indicating that the effects of phlorotannins on the herbivores are variable. The effects of phlorotannins at higher concentrations (8 mg/mL or 18.5% dry mass) were equivocal. Deterrence was increased in some instances, but elevated concentrations of phlorotannins from Carpophyllum maschalocarpum enhanced feeding by Tripneustes gratilla. Algal phenolic levels were not correlated with the growth of juvenile Tripneustes gratilla raised on a variety of algal diets for 7 mo in the field. Conversion efficiencies of algal biomass to urchin biomass by these echinoids also did not covary with algal phenolic content. Growth of T. gratilla on agar diets for 7 mo was not affected by the addition of phlorotannins extracted from Sargassum vestitum to the agar at a concentration of 5 mg/mL. Growth of the gastropod Turbo undulata over 9.5 mo on selected algal diets was fastest for one measure growth for snails fed a diet of the phenolic-poor Sargassum linearifolium, but algal phenolic levels were not correlated with growth of T. undulata for two other measures of growth. Moreover, conversion efficiencies of Turbo undulata did not vary with diet, indicating that any differences in growth among different diets were due to differences in consumption rather than some physiological effect. This last conclusion was supported in an experiment where T. undulata was grown on agar diets. Growth of the snails was not affected by the addition of phlorotannins from Sargassum vestitum or Ecklonia radiata to agar diets, and in this experiment the amount of different agar diets consumed did not differ. These results do not support proposals that algal phlorotannins function as generally effective @'digestibility reducers@' against marine invertebrate herbivores. The pattern of geographical variation in the production of phenolics by brown algae, and the responses of marine herbivores to these compounds, are also not easily explained by current theoretical models such as those based on plant apparency or resource availability. A number of the algae studied here also contained smaller nonpolar secondary metabolites such as terpenes or lactones. In general, these algae were the least palatable to the herbivores, and the herbivores grew most slowly when fed monospecific diets of algae rich in nonpolar secondary compounds. The one nonpolar compound that was tested experimentally, the terpine geranylacetone extracted from Cystophora moniliformis, significantly deterred feeding by Tripneustes gratilla. We suggest that nonpolar compounds will generally have stronger effects against Australasian herbivores than do phlorotannins.
4539105|Movements of animals provisioning offspring by central place foraging extend from short, highly local trips where food is brought back essentially unchanged from its normal condition to extensive interseasonal movement where the offspring are nourished from body reserves built up during the adult's absence from the breeding site. Here, appropriate strategies for maximizing lifetime reproductive success depend on the abundance and location of prey in relation to breeding sites and the energetics and speed of travel of the animal. Magellanic Penguins Spheniscus magellanicus undertake central place movements that are particularly variable during the incubation period; trips may last from a single day to over three weeks depending on colony locality. We reasoned that site-specific variability in prey distribution and abundance is responsible for this. Remote-sensing systems attached to 92 penguins from six different colonies over the species distributional range over the Patagonian Shelf were used to determine space use and foraging patterns in an attempt to understand the observed patterns. Birds in the north and south of the latitudinal range were essentially monophagic, feeding primarily on anchovies Engraulis anchoita and sprats Sprattus fuegensis, respectively, both species that are to be found relatively close to the colonies. Penguins in the center of the distributional range, where these pelagic school fish prey are essentially absent at that time of the year, traveled either north or south, to the same regions utilized by their conspecifics, presumably to exploit the same prey. A simple model is used to clarify patterns and can be used to predict which movement strategy is likely to be best according to colony location. During chick rearing, southerly movement of anchovies and northerly movement of sprats mean that Magellanic Penguins in the center of the distributional range may benefit, although the abundance of these fish is considered to be less than that closer to the Magellanic Penguin range limits. The extensive time involved in the foraging trips during incubation coupled with the postulated poorer prey conditions during the chick-rearing phase may help explain why Magellanic Penguin colony sizes in the center of the range are not elevated.
10.2307/1942481|The populations, foraging behavior, and habitat selection of 20 insectivorous species of subalpine birds were studied during three breeding seasons in the white Mountains, New Hampshire, USA. The object was to clarify how an elevation gradient of environmental adversity affected diversity, dominance, niche, habitat, and species biology. Population densities and territory sizes were measured from census plots. Territory sizes correlated with species body mass, probably in response to size-related food requirements. Lower elevations had more even distributions of densities among species and less steep dominance-diversity curves than did higher elevations. To show habitat selection patterns in the subalpine vegetation, principal components analysis (PCA) was used to develop a model that emphasized elevation and broadleaf-to-coniferous foliage as the two major gradients. Bird species diversity (BSD) reached a maximum in well-developed preclimax red spruce-balsam fir forests with some broadleaf crowns present. Individual species responses were mapped using the model as a base chart, grouping together: (1) five species living at altitudes above 1100 m with small differences in their specific patterns, (2) five other species widely distributed through the mid-subalpine zone (800-1100 m), (3) six more mid-subalpine species segregating along the broadleaf/conifer foliage gradient, and (4) three species found near water. Niche relations were studied using detrended correspondence analysis, a modified version of reciprocal averaging. Resource use was divided by (1) terrestrial vs. arboreal position, (2) a gradient from fine distal (leaves) to coarse proximal (trunk) substrates, and (3) different specializations for food acquisition. BSD was greater in the resource categories requiring less energy and less specialized morphological adaptations to exploit, or having greater insect resource bases. To investigate the relations between habitat and niche, a matrix of the correlations between the niche and habitat variables, using species means for data, was analyzed by PCA. Three relations emerged: (1) the elevation/forest structure gradient was correlated with the terrestrial/arboreal foraging segregation, (2) the niche substrate gradient responded to vegetation structure along the broad-leaf/conifer gradient, and (3) in both cases the response of foraging behavior to habitat structure involved many variables acting together. Niche and habitat were thus closely linked as aspects of species ecotopes; species responses were illustrated for the Blackpoll Warbler and other wood warblers. Food was inferred to limit populations occasionally, so that interspecific competition plausibly underlies niche differentiation. Thermoregulation is hypothesized to affect habitat selection.
10.2307/3100065|In general, analysis of population dynamics can proceed either prospectively or retrospectively. In the case of the former, asymptotic expectations are generally derived (analytically or numerically) from analysis of the potential effects of perturbation of the elements of the life table. However, the vital rates that are indicated by prospective analysis to contribute the most to projected growth rate are not necessarily those that have contributed to observed variation in growth rate over time. We used a retrospective analysis to analyze the life table responses of a population of long-lived herbivorous geese to a systematic reduction in food abundance within the traditional breeding colony. Typical of long-lived species, adult survival rate has been shown previously in a prospective perturbation analysis to have the largest potential impact on projected growth of the population. However, despite a significant long-term increase in adult survival over the course of the study, there has been a long-term decline in growth rates of the population inhabiting the traditional sampling areas, although absolute numbers of individuals in both populations increased over time. Retrospective assessment of the relative contributions of variation in underlying vital rates (adult and juvenile survival, in situ recruitment, emigration and immigration rates into the population) to projected growth showed that the long-term dynamics of the nesting population primarily reflected the combined effects of changes in postfledging juvenile survival, while changes in the postnesting population were most influenced by variation in juvenile survival and adult fidelity rate to the traditional brood-rearing areas. Decreases in both juvenile survival and fidelity reflect systematic reductions in food abundance over the course of the study. Our results confirm previous suggestions that philopatry to the brood-rearing areas may be a significantly more plastic trait than fidelity to nesting areas.
27646165|Projections of polar bear (Ursus maritimus) sea ice habitat distribution in the polar basin during the 21st century were developed to understand the consequences of anticipated sea ice reductions on polar bear populations. We used location data from satellite-collared polar bears and environmental data (e.g., bathymetry, distance to coastlines, and sea ice) collected from 1985 to 1995 to build resource selection functions (RSFs). RSFs described habitats that polar bears preferred in summer, autumn, winter, and spring. When applied to independent data from 1996 to 2006, the RSFs consistently identified habitats most frequently used by polar bears. We applied the RSFs to monthly maps of 21st-century sea ice concentration projected by 10 general circulation models (GCMs) used in the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change Fourth Assessment Report, under the A1B greenhouse gas forcing scenario. Despite variation in their projections, all GCMs indicated habitat losses in the polar basin during the 21st century. Losses in the highest-valued RSF habitat (optimal habitat) were greatest in the southern seas of the polar basin, especially the Chukchi and Barents seas, and least along the Arctic Ocean shores of Banks Island to northern Greenland. Mean loss of optimal polar bear habitat was greatest during summer; from an observed 1.0 million km2 in 19851995 (baseline) to a projected multi-model mean of 0.32 million km2 in 20902099 (-68% change). Projected winter losses of polar bear habitat were less: from 1.7 million km2 in 19851995 to 1.4 million km2 in 20902099 (-17% change). Habitat losses based on GCM multi-model means may be conservative; simulated rates of habitat loss during 19852006 from many GCMs were less than the actual observed rates of loss. Although a reduction in the total amount of optimal habitat will likely reduce polar bear populations, exact relationships between habitat losses and population demographics remain unknown. Density and energetic effects may become important as polar bears make long-distance annual migrations from traditional winter ranges to remnant high-latitude summer sea ice. These impacts will likely affect specific sex and age groups differently and may ultimately preclude bears from seasonally returning to their traditional ranges.
10.2307/2657224|We examined the importance of terrestrial detrital inputs to secondary productivity of a headwater stream. Following a year of pretreatment studies on two headwater streams, we excluded terrestrial litter inputs (=treatment) to one stream while using the other as a reference. We excluded litter for 3 yr followed by 1 yr of small woody debris (10 cm diameter) removal and litter exclusion. Monthly benthic samples were collected from dominant mixed substrate (cobble, pebble, and sand-silt) as well as from moss-covered bedrock outcrop substrates. We used randomized intervention analysis (RIA) to test the null hypotheses that no change in abundance or biomass of functional feeding groups or specific taxa occurred in the treatment stream relative to the reference stream. Benthic organic matter was significantly lower in mixed substrate habitats of the treatment stream; however, small woody debris did not show a significant reduction prior to manual removal during year 4. At the end of the treatment period, total benthic invertebrate abundance in mixed substrates in the treatment stream was less than one-tenth of that in the reference stream, and biomass in the treatment stream was one-sixth of that in the reference stream. Biomass and abundance of shredders, gatherers, total primary consumers, and predators displayed significant treatment effects (P < 0.012-0.00001, RIA) in the mixed substrate habitats during the 4-yr treatment. Only scraper and filterer functional groups failed to show differences between streams during the 4-yr treatment. Twenty of the 30 taxa comprising >90% of total secondary production displayed a significant decrease in abundance, biomass, or both, in the treatment stream relative to the reference stream (P < 0.05, RIA). Total secondary production in mixed substrate habitats declined to 22% of pretreatment values by the fourth year of treatment and is among the lowest reported for streams. Removal of small woody debris resulted in an additional 47-50% decrease in abundance, biomass, and production of the benthic fauna compared to the third year of litter exclusion. In contrast, fauna of moss-covered bedrock substrates displayed no significant differences between streams in terms of any functional group, or in terms of abundance and biomass of individual taxa. Furthermore, secondary production on bedrock outcrops remained similar between streams. Results strongly suggest that food webs of bedrock habitats are not as closely linked to immediate allochthonous inputs from the surrounding forest as those of mixed substrates, although they may be linked in the long term. Using a 9-yr record, we determined the relationship between organic matter standing crop and invertebrate abundance, biomass, and production in the treatment stream. There is a strong relationship between leaf litter standing crops and secondary productivity in mixed substrate habitats. In contrast, bedrock outcrop fauna showed a stronger relationship to fine benthic organic matter (FBOM) standing crop than to leaf litter. Despite a large residual mass of organic matter in the treatment stream, as well as other ongoing sources of input (dissolved organic matter, soil organic matter, and throughfall), litter exclusion clearly shows strong bottom-up effects extending from primary consumers to predators. Abundance, biomass, and production of predators in the treatment stream were also strongly related to that of their prey throughout all pretreatment and treatment years. Our results suggest that, owing to simple bioenergetic efficiencies, production of predators is constrained by productivity of their prey. Although our results clearly show strong bottom-up effects, the importance of predators (top-down) can not be ignored, as available data suggest that predators consume most benthic invertebrate production. Our study underscores the importance of terrestrial-aquatic linkages in maintaining productivity of headwater streams draining forested catchments.
10.2307/1942232|Water economy and thermal relations of plethodontid salamanders were studied in the laboratory and in the field. Laboratory measurements included behavioral responses in temperature and relative humidity gradients, rates of dehydration and dehydration at various relative humidities and soil-moisture levels, and determination of critical thermal maxima by rapid controlled heating to a definite endpoint. Salamanders were acclimated to a combination of three temperatures and two photoperiods: 5@?C, 16 hr of light alternating with 8 hr of darkness (LD 16:8); 5@?C, (LD 8:16); 15@?C (LD 16:8); 15@?C (LD 8:16); 25@?C (LD 16:8); and 25@?C (LD 8:16). Three series of experiments were conducted on 20 populations representing 14 species. Critical thermal maximum increased with an increase in acclimation temperature indicating that the salamander's heat resistance was readily altered by its previous thermal history. Salamanders selected a definite range of temperatures and did not merely avoid extremes in the thermal gradient. Thermal preferenda were relatively stable for each species and were not significantly affected by either acclimation temperature or photoperiod. Rate of dehydration was dependent upon body size, drying power of the air, and ambient temperature. Interspecific differences in dehydration rates appeared to be related in part to differences in size. Species composed of small individuals lost weight faster than species made up of large individuals. As the vapor pressure deficit increased the dehydration rate increased. Dehydration was more rapid at higher temperatures. Rehydration rate increased as the percentage of weight loss due to dehydration increased and was more rapid at higher temperatures. Salamanders absorbed water from soil when soil-moisture tension was as high as 2.8 atm at 25@?C. All species absorbed water from unsaturated soil at similar rates that were dependent upon soil-moisture content. Salamanders in the humidity gradient responded positively to differences in the moisture content of the air, and all but one species were more than 70% successful in selecting the highest relative humidity available in the gradient. Interspecific differences were apparent, but were not always correlated with habitat preferences. Plethodon glutinosus did not show any specific adaptation in its thermal responses or water relations that would account for its widespread distribution in the eastern United States. Plethodon ouachitae and P. caddoensis apparently have survived in the Ouachita Mountains due to favorable microhabitats and their ability to burrow deep beneath talus-covered slopes during hot and dry summers. Surface activity of P. caddoensis is limited in the summer by hot and dry conditions in its microhabitat.
27646070|We trapped deer mice in Algonquin Park, Ontario, Canada, over a 36-year period. Using information-theoretic methods, we examined relationships among weather variables, sugar maple seed crops, and mouse populations. Deer mouse populations were naturally regulated with stochastic variation in growth rate from year to year influenced strongly by autumn seed crops mediated by temperature during the previous summer and snowfall during the previous winter. Population peaks followed heavy seed crops but did not occur at regular intervals. Demographic characteristics differed between peak and nonpeak populations. Overwinter losses were considerably less entering peak years than in other years. Although overwintered adults were only slightly more numerous in the spring of peak years, they were heavier than in nonpeak years. Breeding began earlier in peak years and in years with high March temperatures. The proportion of young was greater in the spring of peak years but less than in nonpeak years in summer. Apparent survival was greatest in spring and early summer of peak years. Immigration in summer was also greatest in peak years. A combination of the above factors resulted in rapid population growth in spring and early summer of peak years. However, young grew slowly in peak summers and most did not reach breeding mass in contrast to nonpeak years. Breeding was drastically reduced for all sex and age groups in August and September of peak years but continued all summer in nonpeak years. Intensity of late summer breeding was positively related to the current seed crop. Apparent survival declined sharply in late summer of peak years but not in nonpeak years. Thus, declines in breeding and apparent survival were responsible for ending population peaks. We interpret these recurrent events principally as responses to variation in food supply.
20787450|High biodiversity of forests is not predicted by traditional models, and evidence for trade-offs those models require is limited. High-dimensional regulation (e.g., N factors to regulate N species) has long been recognized as a possible alternative explanation, but it has not be been seriously pursued, because only a few limiting resources are evident for trees, and analysis of multiple interactions is challenging. We develop a hierarchical model that allows us to synthesize data from long-term, experimental, data sets with processes that control growth, maturation, fecundity, and survival. We allow for uncertainty at all stages and variation among 26 000 individuals and over time, including 268 000 tree years, for dozens of tree species. We estimate population-level parameters that apply at the species level and the interactions among latent states, i.e., the demographic rates for each individual, every year. The former show that the traditional trade-offs used to explain diversity are not present. Demographic rates overlap among species, and they do not show trends consistent with maintenance of diversity by simple mechanisms (negative correlations and limiting similarity). However, estimates of latent states at the level of individuals and years demonstrate that species partition environmental variation. Correlations between responses to variation in time are high for individuals of the same species, but not for individuals of different species. We demonstrate that these relationships are pervasive, providing strong evidence that high-dimensional regulation is critical for biodiversity regulation.
23047059|There is growing appreciation that ecological communities are phylogenetically structured, with phylogenetically closely related species either more or less likely to co-occur at the same site. Here, we present phylogenetic generalized linear mixed models (PGLMMs) that can statistically test a wide variety of phylogenetic patterns in community structure. In contrast to most current statistical approaches that rely on community metrics and randomization tests, PGLMMs are model-based statistics that fit observed presence/absence data to underlying hypotheses about the distributions of species among communities. We built four PGLMMs to address (1) phylogenetic patterns in community composition, (2) phylogenetic variation in species sensitivities to environmental gradients among communities, (3) phylogenetic repulsion in which closely related species are less likely to co-occur, and (4) trait-based variation in species sensitivities to environmental gradients. We also built a fifth PGLMM to test a key underlying assumption of phylogenetic community structure: that phylogenetic information serves as a surrogate for trait information about species; this model tests whether the introduction of trait information can explain all variation in species occurrences among communities, leaving no phylogenetic residual variation. We assessed the performance of these PGLMMs using community simulation models and show that PGLMMs have equal or greater statistical power than alternative approaches currently in the literature. Finally, we illustrate the PGLMM advantage of fitting a model to data by showing how variation in species occurrences among communities can be partitioned into phylogenetic and site-specific components, and how fitted models can be used to predict the co-occurrence of phylogenetically related species.
10.2307/3100068|In the past century, the debate over whether or not density-dependent factors regulate populations has generally focused on changes in mean population density, ignoring the spatial variance around the mean as unimportant noise. In an attempt to provide a different framework for understanding population dynamics based on individual fitness, this paper discusses the crucial role of spatial variability itself on the stability of insect populations. The advantages of this method are the following: (1) it is founded on evolutionary principles rather than post hoc assumptions; (2) it erects hypotheses that can be tested; and (3) it links disparate ecological schools, including spatial dynamics, behavioral ecology, preference-performance, and plant apparency into an overall framework. At the core of this framework, habitat complexity governs insect spatial variance, which in turn determines population stability. First, the "minimum risk distribution" (MRD) is defined as the spatial distribution of individuals that results in the minimum number of premature deaths in a population given the distribution of mortality risk in the habitat (and, therefore, leading to maximized population growth). The greater the divergence of actual spatial patterns of individuals from the MRD, the greater the reduction of population growth and size from high, unstable levels. Then, based on extensive data from 29 populations of the processionary caterpillar, Ochrogaster lunifer, four steps are used to test the effect of habitat interference on population growth rates. (1) The costs (increasing the risk of scramble competition) and benefits (decreasing the risk of inverse density-dependent predation) of egg and larval aggregation are quantified. (2) These costs and benefits, along with the distribution of resources, are used to construct the MRD for each habitat. (3) The MRD is used as a benchmark against which the actual spatial pattern of individuals is compared. The degree of divergence of the actual spatial pattern from the MRD is quantified for each of the 29 habitats. (4) Finally, indices of habitat complexity are used to provide highly accurate predictions of spatial divergence from the MRD, showing that habitat interference reduces population growth rates from high, unstable levels. The reason for the divergence appears to be that high levels of background vegetation (vegetation other than host plants) interfere with female host-searching behavior. This leads to a spatial distribution of egg batches with high mortality risk, and therefore lower population growth. Knowledge of the MRD in other species should be a highly effective means of predicting trends in population dynamics. Species with high divergence between their actual spatial distribution and their MRD may display relatively stable dynamics at low population levels. In contrast, species with low divergence should experience high levels of intragenerational population growth leading to frequent habitat-wide outbreaks and unstable dynamics in the long term. Six hypotheses, erected under the framework of spatial interference, are discussed, and future tests are suggested.
10.2307/3100056|Sexual variation in body form is a common phenomenon in the natural world. Although most research has focused on dimorphism in size, examination of differences in shape can provide insight into ecological factors that may differ in importance to the sexes. In this study, we investigated the patterns of body shape dimorphism in 15 species of Greater Antillean Anolis lizards and investigated whether these patterns can be explained by allometry, phylogenetic effect, or sexual differences in habitat use. We found extensive shape and ecological variation between males and females. Previous studies have been conducted on males only; we found that females have also evolved morphologies to match their habitats. However, we concluded that adaptive patterns differ for the sexes and that interspecific ecological variation is related more strongly to shape than to size for each sex. Previous studies on males have revealed repeated convergent evolution of morphology to habitat types (termed "ecomorphs"). Here, we found that ecomorphs also differ in the magnitude and direction of shape dimorphism. These results cannot be accounted for by allometric scaling or by phylogenetic similarity (regardless of assumptions regarding evolutionary process); they support previous studies that have found important life-history differences for species of different habitat types. We found some evidence for independent adaptation of the sexes, but with more complex ecological patterning occurring between sexes than can be explained by sexual selection alone. Consequently, some combination of functional differences and sexual selection is required.
23596752|Population viability analysis (PVA) has become a basic tool of current conservation practice. However, if not accounted for properly, the uncertainties inherent to PVA predictions can decrease the reliability of this type of analysis. In the present study, we performed a PVA of the whole western European population (France, Portugal, and Spain) of the endangered Bonelli's Eagle (Aquila fasciata), in which we thoroughly explored the consequences of uncertainty in population processes and parameters on PVA predictions. First, we estimated key vital rates (survival, fertility, recruitment, and dispersal rates) using monitoring, ringing, and bibliographic data from the period 19902009 from 12 populations found throughout the studied geographic range. Second, we evaluated the uncertainty about model structure (i.e., the assumed processes that govern individual fates and population dynamics) by comparing the observed growth rates of the studied populations with model predictions for the same period. Third, using the model structures suggested in the previous step, we assessed the viability of both the local populations and the overall population. Finally, we analyzed the effects of model and parameter uncertainty on PVA predictions. Our results strongly support the idea that all local populations in western Europe belong to a single, spatially structured population operating as a sourcesink system, whereby the populations in the south of the Iberian Peninsula act as sources and, thanks to dispersal, sustain all other local populations, which would otherwise decline. Predictions regarding population dynamics varied considerably, and models assuming more constrained dispersal predicted more pessimistic population trends than models assuming greater dispersal. Model predictions accounting for parameter uncertainty revealed a marked increase in the risk of population declines over the next 50 years. Sensitivity analyses indicated that adult and pre-adult survival are the chief vital rates regulating these populations, and thus, the conservation efforts aimed at improving these survival rates should be strengthened in order to guarantee the long-term viability of the European populations of this endangered species. Overall, the study provides a framework for the implementation of multi-site PVAs and highlights the importance of dispersal processes in shaping the population dynamics of long-lived birds distributed across heterogeneous landscapes.
10.2307/1942549|We tested whether the flowering times of animal-pollinated plants are influenced by phylogenetic membership and by life form (e.g., annual, perennial, etc.). We analyzed existing data sets on 2298 animal-pollinated angiosperms of North and South Carolina and 1575 animal-pollinated angiosperms of temperate Japan, and also analyzed a null model based upon the Carolina flora. Our analyses of the complete data sets and of subsets including only the largest families showed that: (1) the floras of the Carolinas and temperate Japan have bimodal distributions of flowering times, with peaks in spring and late summer; (2) within each of these floras, families differ very significantly in flowering time; (3) for most families, flowering times in the Carolinas and in Japan are statistically indistinguishable; (4) the sequences of flowering, ordered by family, are also statistically indistinguishable in the two floras; (5) within each flora, skewness of flowering time differs markedly among families; (6) for a typical family, the skewness of flowering time is the same in the two floras; (7) there is a significant negative correlation between skewness and mean family flowering time; and (8) life forms differ in flowering time, though less markedly than families. These results demonstrate that phylogenetic membership and life form strongly influence a species' flowering time. We argue that seasonal limitations of flowering times are caused by phylogenetic constraints, which may not have changed for millions of years. This study does not provide the degree of resolution needed to determine whether or not there is natural selection for alteration of flowering times in these floras, whether by competition or other mechanisms. However, our results do suggest that competition for pollination does not push species' flowering times beyond seasonal boundaries imposed by phylogenetic constraints. The effects of competition on flowering time are probably limited to small and temporary readjustments of the phenological relationships of competitors. Studies of the flowering times of animal-pollinated plants must consider the strong limits to seasonal displacement imposed by phylogeny and life form, and the probable existence of many alternative modes of escape from competition besides seasonal shifts. We consider the implications of recent paleobotanical studies that suggest that temperate plant communities may not have been sufficiently stable through time for plants to have achieved competitive equilibria. Phylogenetic and life history constraints are likely to influence the evolution of many community characters besides flowering time. The methods we have used and the conclusions we have drawn are relevant to a wide variety of ecological characters in plants and animals.
10.2307/1942353|Decomposition and effects of fire on microclimate and plant production of a Tall Grass Prairie were studied in east-central Illinois. After two years simulated litter samples in contact with soil lost 64% of their initial weight. Burning caused a 2-3 fold increase in production and a ten fold increase in flowering. Application of mulch, lowered flowering rate; response was proportional to thickness of mulch and length of time it was in place, Artificial shading of burned areas under green-house frames lowered flowering rate. Burning or clear cutting vegetation increased percent N and P in May foliage. A May application of N fertilizer increased flowering and dry matter production. Nutrient release from ash had no effect on flowering or production. Root production was similar on burned and Burn 3 areas; a turnover rate of 0.45 was calculated. Calcium content of roots in May increased after fire and N content decreased. Temperature from -5 to +50 cm and light intensity from 0 to +50 cm were higher on burned than Burn 3 areas. Maximum soil surface temperatures occurred three months earlier on Burn 0 than Burn 3 areas. Soil moisture was never severely limiting to plant growth. Growing season microclimate measurements at 50 and 200 cm were combined into a microclimatic index, which allowed comparison of the microenvironment of three burning regimes. Total flowering was proportional to duration and degree of favourable microclimatic conditions from May to mid July.
10.2307/2937332|The development of general theories concerning the origin and maintenance of community organization in marine sedimentary environments will benefit from studies of similar processes in the widest possible range of habitat types. The roles of predation and disturbance by large epibenthos are thought to be significant in many such habitats, but the bulk of recent experimental confirmation comes from shallow areas protected from oceanic swell. This field experimental study examines relationships among demersal predators, predator-caused local disturbance, infauna, and infaunal food resources in an exposed marine sand habitat at 17-m depth in southern California, USA. Manipulation of predator densities with exclusion cages, simulation of biological disturbance, and study of dispersal and habitat selection of infauna showed the importance of recurrent local disturbances by the rays Urolophus halleri and Myliobatis californica, which dig pits to expose prey but clear other infauna in the process. Benthic invertebrate populations show complex but reproducible patterns of reoccupation of disturbed sites. The most striking aspect of these patterns is active selection of recently formed pits by certain species. Ray pits are sites of accumulation for organic material on which most of the infauna feed. Experiments showed that populations which rapidly colonize new ray pits are responding to the concentration of food resources which are otherwise sparsely distributed. Responses of infauna to ray disturbance are correlated with postlarval swimming capability and method of feeding. Early colonists are active nocturnal swimmers that feed on detritus at the sand-water interface. Such features allow efficient exploitation of patchy, ephemeral concentrations of organic matter. Later arrivals are primarily subsurface feeders with limited swimming activity. The relative abundances of infauna are sensitive to seasonal changes in ray disturbance rates. Early pit colonists predominate when disturbance rates are high. The ray disturbance phenomenon produces a persistent mosaic of patches in various stages of infaunal recolonization. Other experiments showed the importance of predation by sea stars (Astropecten verrilli) and speckled sand dabs (Citharichthys stigmaeus). Sea stars consume crab larvae soon after they settle to the bottom and begin metamorphosis. During the study, recruitments of two crabs, Cancer gracilis and Portunus xantusii, were much reduced by sea star predation. A caging experiment indicated that high-density populations of P. xantusii have important negative effects on some infaunal populations. Thus, sea star predation on young crabs is important to the maintenance of infaunal community organization. Sand dabs consume infauna which are flushed into the water column or onto the sand surface by digging rays. This commensal behavior constitutes an important additional source of mortality for populationsthat are otherwise unavailable as food for sand dabs, which are visual predators.
10.2307/2657177|Determining the relative contributions of recruitment vs. postrecruitment processes to adult populations is an unresolved issue. The "recruit-adult" hypothesis suggests that the density of recruits is a good predictor of adult density when low but not when high. That is, the relative importance of recruitment vs. postrecruitment factors varies inversely with increasing density of recruits. In a rocky intertidal habitat at two Oregon coastal sites, a field experiment was done using two barnacle species to test this hypothesis. The relative impacts of these factors on adult barnacle abundance was determined using a reciprocal transplant design to manipulate both the density of barnacles established by recruitment and the postrecruitment conditions (tidal height, wave exposure) in which they lived. The relative contribution of recruitment to adult densities was strongly context dependent and species specific. While density of recruits clearly influenced density of adults for both species in most combinations of site, zone, and exposure, the effects of physical and biotic factors ranged from strong to weak. For Chthamalus, recruitment generally had a stronger impact on density of adults than did postrecruitment processes, while for Balanus, postrecruitment factors tended to have stronger effects than did recruitment. These differences were an apparent consequence of differential susceptibilities to postrecruitment processes. Chthamalus was more tolerant of both biotic and abiotic forces than was Balanus and usually had high survival during periods of high Balanus mortality. Heat and desiccation were identified as the primary postrecruitment mortality factors in the high zone, whereas biotic interactions (competition and predation) were the most likely postrecruitment mortality processes in the mid-zone. Mortality was generally density dependent at the site with the strongest effects of postrecruitment processes, and generally density independent at the site with the strongest effects of recruitment. To determine whether trends were more consistent with the recruit-adult hypothesis at larger scales, data for each species were pooled across exposures (zone scale) and across exposures and zones (site scale) and also were compared to literature data from sites around the world (global scale). Each analysis led to the conclusion that recruitment can be a strong determinant of density of adults, but that the magnitude of this relationship depends on context, varies with species, and can be strongly modified by postrecruitment processes. Even when density of recruits is low, postrecruitment factors can be important in determining density of adults. Thus recruitment is a necessary but sometimes insufficient determinant of adult population density. These results support earlier suggestions that predictive models must incorporate both recruitment and postrecruitment factors and will thus depend on understanding the coupling between benthic and pelagic processes.
10.2307/2963505|At a subtidal, soft-bottom site in the western Baltic Sea, mussel (Mytilus edulis) patches co-occur with high predator abundances. Sea star (Asterias rubens) biomasses, in particular, exceed reported values considered sufficient for restricting mussels to the intertidal zone. To determine how mussels can persist in the face of intense predation we decomposed patch space occupancy into the relative contributions of newly arriving individuals (recruitment) and of increases in body size of the individuals already present in the patch over 13 mo. Sea stars, as major predators, were only able to control 77% of the potential per capita recruitment rate of 91 individuals/yr in 2 m depth. The remaining recruitment rate of 21 individuals/yr was sufficient to allow patches to occupy 1.6 times more space per year. Transplantation of patches to 6 m depth, where recruitment is negligible, revealed that sea stars were also ineffective in controlling mussel coverage through consumption of larger mussels (
10.2307/1943059|I examined the settlement or recruitment of the barnacle Chthamalus anisopoma at a variety of scales: temporally, over periods lasting 12 h to 1 mo, and spatially at sites separated by <1 cm to shores separated by 10 km. Both settlement and recruitment were variable at nearly all temporal and spatial scales that I examined. The majority of variability was attributable to differences in settlement or recruitment between sample periods. When only the spatial component was considered, variability decreased with scale. Large, consistent differences in settlement between geographic locations that are at approximately the same tidal height are probably the result of differential larval supply, whereas more subtle but still consistent differences in settlement between adjacent sites may, at least in part, be due to larval behavior. Differences in settlement between close sites were observed only when settlement was relatively high. This observation may be explained as follows. First, Chthamalus settle in pits or small depressions @'suitable settlement sites (SSS's)@' in the surface of a substrate. Second, within an SSS, space for settlement is restricted. Third, the density of SSS's differ between sites. When settlement is high, settlement differences between locations reflect differences in the number of SSS's, as all are used. However, when settlement is low, settlement will be similar between locations, since SSS's are not limiting. In a series of field experiments using both natural and artificial substrates I found that: (1) Cypris larvae of Chthamalus settled preferentially in the presence of a number of physical and biological factors. (2) Settlement was density dependent but growth and survivorship were not, which suggests exploitative but not interference intraspecific competition. (Although Chthamalus settle gregariously they space themselves out.) (3) Variability in the settlement of Chthamalus affected the ensuing adult population even at the highest settlement densities.
27806885|Sustaining wildlife and pastoral communities in savannas worldwide depends on understanding how landscapes provide for their needs. The composite effects of multiple forces shape herbivore distribution in savannas. We propose a model describing the distribution of animal density along two resource utilization gradients. The model estimates where animals are most abundant in relation to water and pastoral settlements and how strongly they respond to these gradients, as indicated by the location of peak densities in landscape space and degree of attraction of animals to these locations. We use the model to show that distances to water and settlements interactively influence the distribution of wild herbivore and livestock densities in a semiarid protected and pastoral African savanna. The herbivores were distributed along distance from water and settlement gradients according to four distinct patterns, suggesting the preponderance of constrained foraging. The impact of distance to water and settlement on herbivore distribution was modified by land use type and temporal variation in rainfall, and also varied among different species of wildlife and between wildlife and livestock. Wild herbivores peaked in density farther from settlements than from water and were much more strongly attracted to their points of maximum density in the pastoral than in the protected land. The point of maximum density was farther removed from settlements in the protected than in the pastoral landscape where the wild herbivores were compressed into smaller suitable habitats. The interaction between distances from settlement and water produced discernible spatial segregation among species in terms of the locations of their points of maximum density, presumably to minimize interspecific competition for forage and water. Settlements exerted relatively stronger influence on livestock distribution than water, resulting in densities that declined exponentially away from settlements at all distances from water.
10.2307/2657151|Vegetation and soil properties were described across a well-dated sand-dune chronosequence bordering northern Lake Michigan to document patterns and rates of primary succession and forest ecosystem development, and to determine environmental constraints that potentially drive succession and regulate species diversity. The site experienced frequent and continuing formation of 72 shore-parallel dune ridges over the past 2375 yr. Across the chronosequence represented by the youngest 13 dune ridges aged 25-440 yr, there were clear patterns of species turnover and community convergence as well as successional changes in species diversity, aboveground biomass, aboveground litter production, net ecosystem production, nutrient pools, and nutrient cycling. Dune-building species were replaced by evergreen shrubs and bunchgrass within 100 yr, which in turn, were replaced by mixed pine forest within 345 yr. Plant-species richness increased to a peak in developing forest at 285 yr but thereafter decreased as early-successional species disappeared from the communities. Rates of species addition peaked between 95 and 145 yr as forest species invaded, whereas rates of species loss peaked between 345 and 440 yr as early-successional species were lost from the developing forest. Development of the forest ecosystem required 300 yr (i.e., 145-440 years). Total ecosystem carbon increased in a logistic manner to 128 Mg C/ha, with net ecosystem production peaking at 30 g Cm
10.2307/2657241|The effects of forest fragmentation on beetle species composition were investigated in an experimentally fragmented tropical forest landscape in Central Amazonia. Leaf-litter beetles were sampled at seven distances from the forest edge (0-420 m) along forest edge-to-interior transects in two 100-ha forest fragments and two continuous forest edges, and at an identical series of distances along two deep continuous forest transects. Additional samples were taken at the centers of two 10-ha forest fragments and two 1-ha fragments. This sampling regime allowed discrimination between edge and fragment area effects. Beetle species composition changed significantly and independently with both decreasing distance from forest edge and decreasing fragment area. Edge effects on species composition were mediated by six important environmental variables: air temperature, canopy height, percent ground cover of twigs, litter biomass, litter moisture content, and an air temperature x distance from edge interaction effect, due to the different temperature profiles of edges with differing edge vegetation density. Population densities of 15 of the 32 most abundant beetle species tested (47%) were significantly affected by forest fragmentation. Species responses were classified empirically into four major categories: (A) edge sensitive, area insensitive; (B) area sensitive, edge insensitive; (C) edge and area sensitive; and (D) edge and area insensitive. Within these categories, trends in density were either positive (deep-forest species), or negative (disturbed-area species), with species showing the full spectrum of responses to fragmentation. The vast majority of species were adversely affected. Estimated species loss rates from forest fragments were: 49.8% of common species from 1-ha fragments, 29.8% from 10-ha fragments, and 13.8% from 100-ha fragments. Declining density was a significant precursor of species loss from forest fragments, but other species that did not show significant population density responses to fragmentation were also absent from some fragments, presumably by chance. The probability of species loss from forest fragments was not correlated with body size or trophic group for the 32 common species, although for the entire beetle assemblage (993 species) proportions of species in different trophic groups changed significantly with fragmentation. Rarity and population variability (in undisturbed forest) were significant predictors of susceptibility to fragmentation. Surprisingly, though, common species were significantly more likely to become locally extinct in small fragments than rarer species. This lends empirical support to models of multispecies coexistence under disturbance that suggest competitively dominant but poorly dispersing species are the first to become extinct due to habitat destruction. Thus, rarer species are predicted to be better dispersers and better at persisting.
10.2307/1942343|A population of California voles, Microtus californicus, living on Brooks Island in San Francisco Bay was studied for 13 years. During the first 2 years following its establishment, the performance of the population was significantly different from that in the subsequent 11 years. The 11-year pattern that developed is characterized by: (1) annual peaks in abundance; (2) a delay of up to 5 months between the return of wet season conditions and population growth; and (3) an alternating pattern of @'high@' and @'low@' winter densities. Reproduction shows a strongly seasonal pattern, beginning 1-2 months after the start of the rainy season and ending with the desiccation of the vegetation in June. In contrast to this, reproduction started promptly with the autumn rains during the initial 2-year colonization phase, and limited summer reproduction occurred as well. Within the breeding season, litter size and number of corpora lutea produced per ovulation episode show marked seasonal changes which appear to be independent of annual variations in demographic detail and condition of the mice. Males are more vagile than females, although both show a reduction of movements during the main breeding period. The incidence of wounding was positively correlated with reproductive condition in males, but not in females. Mortality schedules were studied by means of population age structure, recruitment rates, and sex ratios. Apparent aging ceases for almost 5 months from about 1 month after the dry season begins to 60 days after it ends. This period is associated with heavy mortality, particularly among old males and young females. Consequently, late fall and early winter sex ratios favor males. In general, however, females survive longer than males, and during the breeding season the sex ratio progressively favors females. Recruits first appear 1-2 months into the wet season, but initially their numbers are very few and are insufficient to reverse population declines. Rapid population growth in late spring is largely dependent on reproduction by these early recruits. Physiological condition was measured by study of body-weight changes, particularly ratios of body weight to body length, ectoparasite loads, including scabies mite infections (mange), and molting patterns. The body-weight data reveal that wet season condition, especially in spring, is much better than dry season. Surprisingly, males begin to recover during the winter period whereas females continue their decline. Moreover, the whole pattern of weight losses is more severe in poor survival summers than in the alternate ones. A flea-mite index reveals a strong seasonal pattern which seems to be induced by vole demography; during the colonization period, ectoparasites were barely noticeable. It took 4 years for scabies to reach significant levels of infestation. Highest incidence generally occurs in winter, and an outbreak occurred in the seventh winter; subsequently, the mange mites returned to endemic levels. Molt activity showed two strongly marked seasonal peaks, one in the late spring-early summer and one in the autumn. Males molt at a slower rate than females; female molt is strongly inhibited by reproduction. The autumn molt begins before the wet season arrives suggesting a photoperiodic cue. During colonization, molts were completed more quickly than afterwards. The quasi 2-year cycle of regularly recurring peaks every year and alternating high and low winter densities which came to characterize the Brooks Island vole population is considered to be the result of a regulation process in which a multiplicity of factors interact to achieve regulation. Both density-unresponsive and responsive factors are involved: unresponsive--rainfall pattern, photoperiod and/or gonadotrophic potency of diet, heavy autumn dews, and possibly winter sex ratios favoring males; responsive--dry season resource levels, long-term physiological damages, and ectoparasite load, including scabies infections. The first two factors in each category are probably the essential ingredients. During the colonization phase, regulation involved the additional factors of emigration and possibly intraspecific strife of some sort. Finally, a model is proposed to explain the longer term cycles in abundance presumably characterizing mainland populations. It is suggested that a 2-year cycle (peak every other year) would be generated without the involvement of mammalian predation. Such a cycle would result from the action of all the essential factors proposed for Brooks Island, plus a supposedly more severe dry season and much more extensive emigration. Longer term cycles probably require the further addition of mammalian predators to this complex. Thus, changes in numbers in this species can be explained most satisfactorily in terms of the interacting effects of at least six variables.
10.2307/1942638|Pregnant females of the viviparous lizard species Sceloporus jarrovi regulate their body temperatures at a lower level than do males or nonpregnant females. It has been suggested that such a shift in preferred body temperature during pregnancy reflects the presence of divergent optimal temperatures for the female and for development of her young; a pregnant female must compromise between these temperatures in order to maximize her fitness. We examine this hypothesis using a Leslie matrix model of life history that quantitatively predicts the mean body temperature that would optimally compromise between conflicting thermal optima for mother and embryos. The predictions of the model are in close agreement (0.4@?C or less) with temperatures observed in the field. According to the model, a pregnant female maintaining the mean body temperature typical of males or nonpregnant females would have @?13% lower fitness than a pregnant female maintaining the optimal temperature. This is mainly due to increased embryo mortality, but reduced growth and increased mortality of the female also contribute to the loss of fitness. In the model, the optimal mean body temperature depends on the precision of thermoregulation. Thermoregulation by gravid females in the field is imprecise, with a standard deviation of 1.4@? during active thermoregulation. If females are (unrealistically) assumed to maintain a perfectly constant body temperature (i.e., a standard deviation of 0@?), the optimal mean temperature in the model is @?2@? higher than the mean temperature of gravid females in the field. Although specifically designed to incorporate features of the physiology and life history of Sceloporus jarrovi, the model can be generalized and applied to other situations involving compromise among multiple optima.
4539076|Studies in Southern Hemisphere temperate forests have yielded a general model of how the successional status of shade-intolerant Nothofagus is related to site conditions and disturbance. According to model predictions, regeneration of most Nothofagus species is dependent on coarse-scale disturbance at favorable sites where shade-tolerant rain forest species co-occur. In contrast, at suboptimal sites where tree species richness is low, regeneration is not dependent on coarse-scale disturbance. We used variation in forest composition and structure as well as disturbance patterns in the forests of Puyehue National Park, Chile, to test several predictions from this general model. The study area presents a complex mosaic of disturbance patterns, including the effects of the strong 1960 earthquake as well as fire and wind disturbance. We reconstructed stand development on sites affected by these disturbances, and compared these patterns with the structure of old-growth forests along an elevation gradient from species-rich montane rain forest to monotypic subalpine Nothofagus forests. Tree age data indicate that both the Nothofagus and many of the rain forest tree species are long-lived, often reaching ages greater than 600 years. Regeneration of Nothofagus was abundant in stands recently disturbed by landslides, fire, or blowdown across the entire elevation gradient, and Nothofagus also regenerated in old-growth high-elevation forests. In contrast, regeneration of Nothofagus was scarce or absent in undisturbed stands and at lower elevation. In comparison with the rain forest species, Nothofagus species are more tolerant of the unfavorable site conditions associated with increasing elevation. Thus, there is a gradient of decreasing interspecific tree competition with increasing elevation, so that the dependence of regeneration of Nothofagus on coarse-scale disturbance is much less at higher elevation. This study confirms that changes in forest composition may be explained by simple processes occurring in accordance with the main predictions of the general model of Nothofagus forest dynamics: At low elevations, coarse-scale disturbance is required for Nothofagus regeneration; at higher elevations under decreasing competition the regeneration of Nothofagus is less dependent on coarse-scale disturbance. Thus, for the Puyehue landscape, patterns of forest structure and disturbance history are congruent with the major features of the general model of Nothofagus dynamics.
10.2307/2937131|The main objective of this study was to evaluate how physical stress and herbivores influence the distribution, abundance, size frequency, and mortality of the giant kelp, Macrocystis pyrifera, in the southeast Pacific. These factors were studied for the kelp and the echinoid herbivore Loxechinus albus over a wide latitudinal range (56@?-42@? S) of South America on RV Hero cruises in 1972 and 1973. There were large kelp forests with many large plants in the southern Isla de los Estados and Tierra del Fuego sites. Sources of kelp mortality in these sites include entanglement with drift plants and heavy encrustation of bivalves. This resulted in a considerable amount of drifting kelp, and the sea urchins appeared to have abundant food and did not attack living kelp plants. Nevertheless, the urchin densities usually were relatively low and the Loxechinus size frequencies skewed to larger size classes, suggesting that their populations may be limited by larval availability in the Westwind Drift. There were also some large kelp forests in the northern Golfo Corcovado and Isla Chiloe areas, but here the kelp forests seemed relatively ephemeral and Loxechinus appeared to be harvested by humans. The intermediate latitudes (54@?-46@? S) in areas semiexposed to oceanic waves were characterized by situations in which Loxechinus overexploit the kelps and maintain urchin-coralline algae @'barren grounds.@' In these areas kelps occur only where urchin access is restricted by wave exposure, ephemeral clumps of Desmarestia ligulata, and rarely, by a predator, the asteroid Meyenaster gelatinosus. In many areas the shallow distribution of Macrocystis was restricted by competition with the large fucoid Durvillaea antarctica. These relationships were evaluated by removal and addition experiments. Much more important than latitudinal relationships to both kelp and urchin distribution and abundance patterns were exposure gradients, from shores subject to strong oceanic swells to protected fjords. Transect data suggest that Loxechinus disappear from protected waters before Macrocystis. Thus in some semiprotected habitats there are very dense patches of kelps without grazers; kelp removal experiments in these habitats suggest strong density-dependent kelp interactions. In still more protected sites, the Macrocystis growth form changes, the plants appear to have low fertility, and there is very low recruitment. Summarizing, the Loxechinus population seems restricted by larval recruitment in the face of the Westwind Drift in the far south, perhaps by sedimentation or fresh water in protected fjords, and by human fishing in the north. The very low Loxechinus densities in the far south are correlated with large kelp forests in which the main kelp mortality results from drifting Macrocystis plants. The kelp populations appear limited by physical factors in the fjords and by Loxechinus grazing in most other areas.
40385214|The distribution of the diversity and abundance of life on Earth is thought to be shaped by the patterns of plant growth (net primary production, NPP) in the oceans and on land. The well-known latitudinal gradient of species diversity reaches its maximum in tropical rain forests, which are considered to be the most productive ecosystems on the planet. However, this high tropical productivity on land is the opposite of the well-documented distribution of marine productivity, which is greatest in the high-latitude oceans around the poles. This paradox can be resolved by a reevaluation of the terrestrial productivity gradient. Compilations of direct measurements of forest NPP show that annual NPP in tropical forests is no different than annual NPP in temperate forests, contrary to recent syntheses and to the output of global vegetation models. Other properties of forest ecosystems, such as basal area of trees, wood density, and the ratio of wood to leaf production, as well as animal properties such as body size, population density, and reproductive rates, support the conclusion that ecologically relevant terrestrial productivity is actually highest in the temperate latitudes, reaching a maximum between 30 and 50 before declining toward the poles. This "reversal" of the latitudinal productivity gradient, if substantiated by a systematic global sampling effort, will necessitate a major reevaluation of ecological and evolutionary theory, as well as conservation strategies and international development policies.
43188348|Understanding how habitat structures species assemblages in a community is one of the main goals of community ecology. To relate community patterns to particular factors defining habitat conditions, ecologists often use canonical ordinations such as canonical redundancy analysis (RDA). It is a common practice to use dissimilarity coefficients to perform canonical ordinations through distance-based RDA (db-RDA) or transformationbased RDA (tb-RDA). Dissimilarity coefficients are measures of resemblance where the information about species communities is condensed into a symmetric square matrix of dissimilarities among sites. In this study, we compared 16 of the most commonly used dissimilarity coefficients to evaluate if the species-abundance distribution (SAD) of a community can be used to select an appropriate coefficient. Of these, 11 are designed to be used primarily with abundance data, although they can also be used with presence-absence data, whereas five can only be applied to presence-absence data. Using simulations, we compared the explained variance of RDAs differing only by their coefficients to evaluate how the abundance patterns of communities influence coefficient choice. We found that coefficients are largely equivalent, independently of the community SAD. In light of these findings, we propose the consensus RDA method, a new canonical ordination procedure that performs a consensus of RDAs across several coefficients. This new method focuses on the common relations found by independent RDAs differing only by their dissimilarity coefficients; this ensures the absence of a coefficient-related bias when interpreting the canonical ordination result. Also, because in our simulations the presence-absence data were directly derived from the abundance data, we were able to evaluate if the information in presence-absence data was equivalent to that in abundance data. We found that although some information was lost by converting abundance data into presence-absence, both data formats may be complementary. When applying consensus RDA to abundance and presence-absence data independently, a more complete understanding and interpretation of the ecological patterns is obtained. An ecological example illustrating consensus RDA and the conclusions of our simulations is presented, using Carabidae data collected at the Ecosystem Management Emulating Natural Disturbances (EMEND) project in northwestern Alberta, Canada.
10.2307/1942345|The vegetation of the Big Horn Mountains is typical of the Central Rocky Mountain region; a lower Juniperus osteosperma zone is followed by Pinus ponderosa, Pseudotsuga menziesii, Pinus contorta, and Picea engelmannii-Abies lasiocarpa zones. Rock or geologic substrate type has a strong influence on forest vegetation. On sedimentary areas forests cover less that 50% of the area and are composed of Pseudotsuga menziesii or Picea engelmannii-Abies lasiocarpa. On granitic substrates forests cover over 80% of the surface and are composed chiefly of Pinus contorta with Picea engelmannii-Abies lasiocarpa at higher elevations. Populus tremuloides is present but unimportant as a vegetation type. Most of the rainfall comes during March, April, and May; precipitation is less than 30 mm per month during summer. Thus soil-water relationships are important in determining vegetation pattern. Precipitation comes from the east, which allows forest vegetation to reach lower elevations on the east than on the west slope.
10.2307/1942330|In the first few years following fire, burned chaparral areas are typified by a flush of seed germination and seedling growth not seen in unburned chaparral. The effects of fire on factors of potential importance to this plant response were examined in recently burned and long unburned chaparral, dominated by Adenostoma fasciculatum, in the Santa Ynez Mountains near Santa Barbara, California. Measurement of soil moisture, soil texture, and light indicated that changes in these factors following fire had little direct effect on postfire germination and growth. Bacteria and fungi were more abundant in burned than in unburned chaparral soil. Thus, the hypothesis that microbial depletion of soil oxygen in unburned chaparral inhibits seed germination appears untenable. Changes in organic matter content, pH, nitrogen, phosphorus, sulfur, potassium, calcium, and magnesium were examined in the upper soil layers of both burned and unburned chaparral during the first 18 mo following fire. Mineral addition as ash-fall was also evaluated. Burning increased levels of most mineral elements significantly. Furthermore, a large reservoir of readily available organic nutrients was added in the ash. Causes of low nutrient levels in unburned chaparral were also investigated. Additions of nutrients to unburned chaparral soil in the greenhouse and field resulted in increased growth of species common in burned chaparral areas. Bioassays of aqueous A. fasciculatum leaf washings were performed against 10 plant species common in burned chaparral areas. Significant depression of germination and growth was observed. Rain throughfall collected under the shrubs was also inhibitory. Efforts to isolate and identify the toxins are described. Numbers of small herbivorous mammals were greatly reduced in recently burned chaparral. This factor is shown to have a marked effect on seedling survival. Applications of various heat treatments to unburned chaparral soil and to fresh seeds of species common to burned chaparral indicated that the seed of several species are released from dormancy by heat. Insolational heating of soil in cleared, but unburned, chaparral is sufficient to stimulate germination.
41739362|Broad-scale geographical gradients in the abiotic environment and interspecific interactions should select for clinal adaptation. How trait clines evolve has recently received increased attention because of anticipated climate change and the importance of rapid evolution in invasive species. This issue is particularly relevant for clines in growth and defense of plants, because both sets of traits are closely tied to fitness and because such sessile organisms experience strong local selection. Yet despite widespread recognition that growth and defense traits are intertwined, the general issue of their joint clinal evolution is not well resolved. To address heritable clinal variation and adaptation of growth and defense traits of common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca), we planted seed from 22 populations encompassing the species' latitudinal range in common gardens near the range center (New York) and toward the range edges (New Brunswick and North Carolina). Populations were differentiated in 13 traits, and six traits showed genetically based latitudinal clines. Higher-latitude populations had earlier phenology, lower shoot biomass, more root buds and clonal growth, higher rootto-shoot ratio, and greater latex production. The cline in shoot biomass was consistent in all three locations. Selection on phenology was reversed in New Brunswick and North Carolina, with early genotypes favored in the north but not the south. We found no clines in foliar trichomes or toxic cardenolides. Annual precipitation of source populations explained variation in phenology, clonal growth, root-to-shoot ratio, and latex. Across four traits measured in New Brunswick and North Carolina, we found garden-by-latitude (and gardenby-precipitation) interactions, indicating plasticity in genetically based trait clines. In the two gardens with substantial herbivory (New York and North Carolina), northern populations showed higher resistance to insects. Resistance to aphids was driven by trichomes and water content, while resistance to monarch caterpillars was driven by latex. However, surveys of natural populations indicated that leaf damage and insect diversity on milkweed are low at the geographical extremes (New Brunswick and North Carolina) and higher toward the range center. We speculate that milkweed plants evolved clines in growth traits in response to climate, and that this set the template for tolerance to herbivory, which subsequently shaped the evolution of defensive traits.
10.2307/1943073|To test alternative hypotheses concerning life history flexibility in variable environments I focused on the genotypic and environmental components of variation in Sex Ratio and Reproductive Allocation in clones of a benthic modular animal, the bryozoan Celleporella hyalina, grown in different flow regimes through all seasons. Clones of this bryozoan growing in autumn and winter varied significantly in growth rate, modular sex ratio, and relative investment in sexual reproduction. Experimental reduction of ambient water flow significantly reduced growth rate but did not affect Reproductive Allocation or Sex Ratio. Clonal differences in Reproductive Allocation were associated with a trade-off between somatic and sexual functions: clones investing more heavily in sex reached a smaller somatic size. In spring and summer, Celleporella clones showed an inconsistent and less pronounced growth response to flow regime. Significant genetically based variation was found for all measured characters except Reproductive Allocation. In both seasonal groups, clonal Sex Ratio was genetically canalized, and insensitive to the experimental treatments. The presence of clonal variability in Reproductive Allocation in autumn/winter but not in spring/summer may arise from seasonal differences in lifespan on natural substrata. These may select for maximal sexual investment in short-lived generations, but allow scope for alternative strategies if potential longevity is greater. The genetic constraint on clonal Sex Ratio may not conflict with models predicting flexible sex expression in variable environments, since the seasonal fluctuations experienced probably do not affect sex-specific reproductive success. The small Genotype x Treatment interactions and the positive correlations between clonal performance in differing treatments and seasons, suggest that the relative fitness of clones does not vary, a result at odds with assumptions underlying current hypotheses for the adaptive basis of sexual reproduction.
10.2307/1942159|The ecology and life history of Desmognathus ochrophaeus inhabiting wet rock faces at high elevations near Highlands, North Carolina, were studied. Comparisons were made with rock-face populations in Great Smoky Mountains National Park and with woodland populations at Rabun Bald, Scaly Mountain, and Blue Valley in the Blue Ridge Mountains. The reproductive cycle in rock-face populations is annual; spawning occurs mostly in July and August, and females begin to emerge from brooding as early as late August. The new spermatogenic cycle begins in May and June. Animals on rock faces average 40-45 cm in movements between successive captures and appear to have a limited range. Animals displaced to the base of the rock face and higher on the rock face can return to their home range. Population density is high (up to 25 individuals/m^2), diurnal activity is nearly as high as nocturnal activity (correlated with subdued body colors), and at least a moderate level of activity occurs during warm winter periods. Animals mature at 2 years of age as in woodland populations, but at a smaller size, and grow more slowly thereafter. Small body size is not due to paucity of food on the rock faces. The high population densities on the wet rock faces indicate that they are highly favorable habitats for D. ochrophaeus. Differences between rock-face and forest-floor populations are attributable to modified selective pressures in the two different ecological settings. Variation among rock-face populations is attributed to the intensity of selection for small body size and cryptic coloration, the size of the rock face, and variation among forest-floor populations from which they were derived. Since rock-face populations are linked genetically to surrounding forest-floor populations of D. ochrophaeus, they cannot be considered examples of taxonomic variation, but rather of ecotypic variation.
27646138|Understanding the manner in which changes in disturbance regimes will affect forest biodiversity is an important goal of global change research. Prevailing theories of recruitment after disturbance center on the role of pioneer species; predictions of forest biodiversity focus almost exclusively on dispersal and shade tolerance while vegetative reproduction is virtually omitted from models and serious discussions of the topic. However, the persistence of live damaged trees increases understory shade, generates fine-scale environmental heterogeneity, and moderates ecosystem responses to damage, while the sprouting of damaged trees offers a shortcut to reestablishment of the canopy. While a number of studies document snapshots of post-disturbance vegetative reproduction, we lack an understanding of the underlying demographic processes needed in order to both comprehend and predict observed patterns. In this study we quantify the abundance, competitive ability, and interspecific variability of vegetative reproduction in 18 replicated experimental gaps in the southern Appalachians and Carolina Piedmont, USA, in order to assess the potential role of sprouting in driving gap dynamics. Annual rates of damaged adult survival, sprout initiation, growth, and mortality were monitored over four years and compared to the performance of gap-regenerating saplings. Recruitment from sprouts was found to constitute 2687% of early gap regeneration and forms the dominant pathway of regeneration for some species. Sprouts from recently damaged trees also grow significantly faster than the saplings with which they compete. For all measured demographic rates (damaged tree survival, sprout initiation, number, growth, and survival) differences among species are large and consistent across sites, suggesting that vegetative reproduction is an important and non-neutral process in shaping community composition. Sprouting ability does not correlate strongly with other life-history trade-offs, thus sprouting potentially provides an alternate trait axis in promoting diversity.
10.2307/1942570|Juvenile Sarotherodon mossambicus in Lake Sibaya, South Africa, grow rapidly and maintain good body condition, but adults grow slowly, show extensive marasmas and appear to suffer from severe malnutrition. The cause of this malnutrition was sought by comparison of juvenile and adult diets. Juveniles feed on benthic detrital aggregate from nearshore sand terraces, whereas adults feed on benthic detrital aggregate in deeper offshore waters. Chemical analysis of 39 benthic detrital aggregate samples collected from juvenile and adult feeding areas showed that detrital aggregate from these 2 areas did not differ in caloric content (@? =0.97 J/mg organic), organic content (@? = 43.0%), soluble carbohydrate content (@? = 16.0% of organic), total carbohydratecontent (@? = 45.7% of organic). Protein content ranged from 1.8 to 14.2% of organic matter and decreased with increasing depth. Assimilation efficiencies determined experimentally for juveniles feeding on benthic detrital aggregate were: energy 42%, organic matter 37%, soluble carbohydrate 36%, total carbohydrate 35%, and protein 46%. A large proportion of the organic matter assimilated was nonliving amorphous detritus. Ratios of digestible protein to digestible energy calculated for the 39 samples show a highly significant inverse relationship to increasing depth. These ratios indicate that juvenile diets contain adequate protein to support good growth, but adult diets would be expected to result in malnutrition due to protein deficiency. Nutritional constraints imposed by low protein levels in detrital aggregate account for the characteristic nearshore distribution of detritivorous fishes and the paucity of exclusively detritivorous fish species.
10.2307/1942192|A population of color-banded Yellow-breasted Chats was studied during the breeding seasons of 1966 through 1970 on 18 ha of upland deciduous scrub habitat near Bloomington, Monroe County, Indiana. The number of breeding males varied between five in 1970 and eight in 1966, and the number of territorial, nonbreeding males ranged from two in 1968 and 1969 to five in 1967. During the spring migratory period the capture rate of unbanded males per 100 net-hours varied between 1.40 in 1970 and 3.48 in 1969 (pooled mean = 2.57); the capture rate of females varied between 0.59 in 1970 and 3.88 in 1967 (pooled mean = 1.49). Capture rates of unbanded birds were considerably lower after the end of the spring migratory period (pooled mean capture rate of unbanded males = 0.24; unbanded females = 0.24). Approximately 50% of the males and females captured during spring migration and 75% of those captured in the summer did not settle on the study area; the rest were resident there. The sex ratio of both the breeding and the transient populations did not differ significantly from 1:1. The mean size of territories varied between 1.12 ha in 1967 and 1.58 ha in 1970 (pooled mean = 1.24 ha); territory size did not differ significantly among years. When territorial males disappeared, the vacancies in most cases were filled either by the settlement of new males or by expansion of the territorial boundaries of neighbors. New males that settled usually acquired females, which attempted to reproduce. In the absence of vacancies new males were prevented from settling by the presence or behavior of the established males. The replacements on and transients through the study area of both sexes were not necessarily birds without previous breeding experience and, in the case of males, territories in the seasons involved. The males may have abandoned territories elsewhere, or they may have wandered onto the study area from territories still held. The females had bred elsewhere; they had probably experienced nest failure and some, at least, were in the process of changing mates. Only one male was polygnous; all others formed pair-bonds with a succession of females, or remained paired to one female the entire time they were on the study area, of were for a time paired to one female and for a time unpaired. Of the males that experienced nest failure and bred again, 50% did so with new mates. No females and only 11% of the breeding males returned to the study area in the years following first capture. Nest success varied between 0.0% in 1970 and 38.5% in 1966 (pooled mean = 22.4%). Nests that were begun in late June and July succeeded in significantly greater numbers than nests begun early. Approximately 94% of the nest failures were attributed to predators. The number of young produced varied between none in 1970 and 24 in 1966. If each territory on the study area had been occupied for an entire breeding season by monogamously and polygynously mated males and unmated males in the same proportions as were observed, it is estimated that the population would have produced, on the average, 1.19 young per territory per year. This estimated mean potential productivity probably would not have produced enough young to replace estimated annual losses to the population. The area was, therefore, unfavorable habitat on which the chat population had to be maintained by immigrants in excess of emigrants. The low productivity resulted from a combination of nest predation and early cessation of reproductive activities in some years.
23596907|Paleoecology can provide valuable insights into the ecology of species that complement observation and experiment-based assessments of climate impact dynamics. New paleoecological records (e.g., pollen, macrofossils) from the Italian Peninsula suggest a much wider climatic niche of the important European tree species Abies alba (silver fir) than observed in its present spatial range. To explore this discrepancy between current and past distribution of the species, we analyzed climatic data (temperature, precipitation, frost, humidity, sunshine) and vegetation-independent paleoclimatic reconstructions (e.g., lake levels, chironomids) and use global coupled carbon-cycle climate (NCAR CSM1.4) and dynamic vegetation (LandClim) modeling. The combined evidence suggests that during the mid-Holocene (6000 years ago), prior to humanization of vegetation, A. alba formed forests under conditions that exceeded the modern (19611990) upper temperature limit of the species by 57C (July means). Annual precipitation during this natural period was comparable to today (>700800 mm), with drier summers and wetter winters. in the meso-Mediterranean to sub-Mediterranean forests A. alba co-occurred with thermophilous taxa such as Quercus ilex, Q. pubescens, Olea europaea, Phillyrea, Arbutus, Cistus, Tilia, Ulmus, Acer, Hedera helix, Ilex aquifolium, Taxus, and Vitis. Results from the last interglacial (ca. 130 000115 000 BP), when human impact was negligible, corroborate the Holocene evidence. Thermophilous Mediterranean A. alba stands became extinct during the last 5000 years when land-use pressure and specifically excessive anthropogenic fire and browsing disturbance increased. Our results imply that the ecology of this key European tree species is not yet well understood. On the basis of the reconstructed realized climatic niche of the species, we anticipate that the future geographic range of A. alba may not contract regardless of migration success, even if climate should become significantly warmer than today with summer temperatures increasing by up to 57C, as long as precipitation does not fall below 700800 mm/yr, and anthropogenic disturbance (e.g., fire, browsing) does not become excessive. Our finding contradicts recent studies that projected range contractions under global-warming scenarios, but did not factor how millennia of human impacts reduced the realized climatic niche of A. alba.
10.2307/2963504|Predicting the dynamics of natural food webs requires estimates of the strength of interactions among species. The ability to estimate per capita interaction strength from observational data is desirable because of the logistical difficulty of using experimental manipulations to obtain such measures for all species within complex natural communities. In this paper, I derive observational measures of per capita interaction strength having units matching those of dynamic food web models (per capita consumption and assimilation rates). I also highlight the difference between per capita interaction strength (a parameter used in theoretical models) and species impact (empirical measures of total species effect). I then use behavioral observations and population censuses in a rocky intertidal community to estimate both per capita interaction strengths and species impacts on invertebrate prey of Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens), American Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani), and Northwestern Crows (Corvus caurinus). Estimated per capita interaction strengths exhibited a skewed distribution with many weak interactions and few strong interactions: mean  1 SD of log
10.2307/1942581|I examined the effects of phenolic compounds in marine brown algae on the feeding behavior of the intertidal gastropod Tegula funebralis and other marine herbivores. The effects of algal nitrogen content and thallus toughness were also investigated. T. funebralis showed consistent feeding preferences in the laboratory and in the field in pairwise tests of 13 species of marine brown algae (Phaeophyta) from central California. Relative levels of phenolic compounds, which are known to deter feeding by herbivorous snails, differed greatly between preferred and nonpreferred species of algae. The total phenolic content of the six most preferred species of algae averaged 0.83% of dry mass; the phenolic content of the seven least preferred species averaged 4.53%. Differences in relative tanning ability were similarly large. Tannic acid, a terrestrial plant tanin, when experimentally added to one kelp species, deterred feeding by T. funebralis. These results and analyses of studies of additional species of brown algae also showed consistent differences in the phenolic content between species in the order Laminariales (typically low) and those in the order Fucales (uniformly high). Feeding preferences of other gastropod, echinoid, and crustacean algivores from the northeast Pacific Ocean are strikingly similar to those of T. funebralis; this supports the contention that high levels of phenolic compounds in brown algae are a generally effective feeding deterrent against many kinds of marine invertebrate herbivores. Organic nitrogen content of the algae was positively correlated with the feeding preferences of T. funebralis. However, this was most likely an indirect effect of the significant negative correlation between algal nitrogen and phenolic contents. Thallus toughness of the algae did not seem important in determining overall feeding preferences of Tegula, but may have affected choices between algae that were low in phenolics. I suggest that feeding preferences of Tegula funebralis for brown algae are primarily due to avoidance of algal defenses; positive aspects of food quality (such as attractants or nutritional content) probably play a lesser role in determining preference.
10.2307/3100093|Reduced prey availability has emerged as a primary hypothesis to explain population constraints on wading birds in numerous wetlands around the world. However, there is almost no understanding of which component of prey availability (i.e., prey density or vulnerability of prey to capture) is affecting populations and whether the relative effects of each component differ among species. In this study, I manipulated prey density and water depth (i.e., prey availability) in 12 0.2-ha ponds to determine their relative effects on the numeric response of eight species of free-ranging wading birds (White Ibis, Eudocimus albus; Wood Stork, Mycteria americana; Snowy Egret, Egretta thula; Glossy Ibis, Plegadis falcinellus; Great Egret, Ardea alba; Tricolored Heron, Egretta tricolor; Great Blue Heron, Ardea herodias; and Little Blue Heron, Egretta caerulea). The experiment was conducted in a constructed wetland adjacent to, and west of, the northern tip of the remnant Everglades, in Palm Beach County, Florida, USA. Each pond was set to a water depth of 10 cm, 19 cm, or 28 cm, and was stocked with golden shiners (Notemigonus crysoleucas) at a density of either 3 fish/m
10.2307/2937330|Population densities, reproduction, and survival of the lizard Uta stansburiana were measured at the Nevada Test Site in southern Nevada, USA, between 1964 and 1974. These data were used to develop a model of the population dynamics of this species. Results of irrigation experiments in 0.4-ha enclosures near Mercury, Nevada, were used to formulate multiple-regression equations predicting frequency and size of clutches laid by two age-classes of females in terms of winter rainfall, March air temperatures, and Uta population density. Densities of Uta in these enclosures were manipulated, and age-specific survival modeled in terms of spring densities of Uta. Experiments in which an important predator on Uta (the leopard lizard, Crotaphytus wislizeni) was removed from enclosures were used to estimate the influence of the predator on basic survival rates of hatchling and older Uta. The model was generally developed from data acquired in the small enclosures, but predictions were compared with actual observations of changes in Uta populations in Rock Valley (19 km west of Mercury, Nevada) between 1966 and 1972. Agreement between model predictions and actual numbers was fair. The model predicted a decrease in density from 1966 to 1967, but numbers of Uta actually increased conspicuously at this time. This was the only major discrepancy between predictions and observations. The observed mean spring density (d) between 1967 and 1972 was 41.4 Uta/ha (Sd = 20.8), while the model predicted a mean density of 37.8 Uta/ha (SD = 13.6). Observed and predicted mean proportions of yearlings in spring populations were identical (0.78). The basic version of the model estimated different survival rates for two age-groups of adult Uta. A simpler version of the model, using a common survival rate for both age-groups, gave predictions essentially identical with those of the basic model. Other tests of the basic model showed it to be most sensitive to changes in winter rainfall and predation pressure, much less so to air temperatures. Fifteen- and 30-yr synthetic sequences of predator densities were used to examine model stability over longer periods of time. When predator densities were drawn randomly from distributions with a mean of 2 individuals/ha, model populations exhibited lower mean numbers and amplitudes than actually observed during 9 yr in Rock Valley. The basic model included three density-dependent parameters: clutch frequency, clutch size, and adult survival. The model was modified so that (1) egg production was density independent, while adult survival was not; (2) adult survival was density independent, but egg production was not; and (3) there was no density dependence in the model. Thirty-year tests showed that cases 1 and 2 did not differ markedly from the basic model, although the removal of one density-dependent constraint resulted in slightly higher mean densities. In case 3, the model lacked stability and predicted numbers increased to unrealistic levels within 5 yr. We conclude that processes relating to egg production were modeled more effectively than those influencing survival, and that improvement of the model will depend on more detailed studies of the impact of predation on age-specific survival rates of Uta.
43188377|Natural variation describes the normal fluctuations that occur in ecosystems over time in the absence of significant human-driven disturbance, providing a buffer that facilitates ecological resilience. Long-term data on ecosystems are useful in developing baselines of natural variation and identifying the limits to resilience within different ecosystems. Here, we examined two contemporaneous vertebrate fossil assemblages of the Naracoorte Caves in southern Australia to determine the magnitude and extent of natural variation and resilience exhibited by a small-mammal paleocommunity through the last glacial cycle (c. 50-10 kyr BP). We also investigated the effect of sampling the assemblages at different timescales on observed patterns of variability and quantified sampling effects to test the robustness of the temporal trends. Our results show that the paleocommunity was structurally and compositionally stable through the early glacial period and last glacial maximum (LGM), with variability exhibited only in species abundances. Significant variability in species abundances, abundance ranks, and species richness during the post-LGM deglaciation reveals paleocommunity reorganization and a loss of resilience to climatic change at this time. A nearby marine-core record suggests that the paleocommunity reorganization was associated with sea-surface temperatures warming past 16C, postdating the onset of warming following the LGM by c. 1-3 kyr. This suggests that the paleocommunity was sensitive to specific temperature thresholds rather than shifts between warming or cooling trends per se. Our results also show that patterns of natural variability are sensitive to time-averaging, which can smooth out rapid and short-term changes and limit our capacity to temporally correlate faunal changes to their environmental or climatic drivers. The responses of the small-mammal paleocommunity conform to models derived from other paleontological and modern assemblages in which changes in species abundances may not always lead to community restructuring.
41739373|Recent developments in animal tracking technology have permitted the collection of detailed data on the movement paths of individuals from many species. However, analysis methods for these data have not developed at a similar pace, largely due to a lack of suitable candidate models, coupled with the technical difficulties of fitting such models to data. To facilitate a general modeling framework, we propose that complex movement paths can be conceived as a series of movement strategies among which animals transition as they are affected by changes in their internal and external environment. We synthesize previously existing and novel methodologies to develop a general suite of mechanistic models based on biased and correlated random walks that allow different behavioral states for directed (e.g., migration), exploratory (e.g., dispersal), area-restricted (e.g., foraging), and other types of movement. Using this "toolbox" of nested model components, multistate movement models may be custom-built for a wide variety of species and applications. As a unified state-space modeling framework, it allows the simultaneous investigation of numerous hypotheses about animal movement from imperfectly observed data, including time allocations to different movement behavior states, transitions between states, the use of memory or navigation, and strengths of attraction (or repulsion) to specific locations. The inclusion of covariate information permits further investigation of specific hypotheses related to factors driving different types of movement behavior. Using reversiblejump Markov chain Monte Carlo methods to facilitate Bayesian model selection and multimodel inference, we apply the proposed methodology to real data by adapting it to the natural history of the grey seal (Halichoerus grypus) in the North Sea. Although previous grey seal studies tended to focus on correlated movements, we found overwhelming evidence that bias toward haul-out or foraging locations better explained seal movement than did simple or correlated random walks. Posterior model probabilities also provided evidence that seals transition among directed, area-restricted, and exploratory movements associated with haulout, foraging, and other behaviors. With this intuitive framework for modeling and interpreting animal movement, we believe that the development and application of custommade movement models will become more accessible to ecologists and non-statisticians.
10.2307/1942230|A study of the macrobenthos and its environment in the Pamlico River estuary, North Carolina, included measurements of salinity, temperature, and dissolved oxygen, as well as the particle size and concentrations of organic matter of the sediments. Salinity ranged from 1@% to 20@%, and temperature from 5@? to 31@? C. Anoxic conditions in the bottom water over-lying the deeper portions of the estuary occurred in the late summer. Two distinct sediment types were found: a sand substrate in the shallow area and a silty clay substrate in the deep area of the estuary. A preliminary sampling program in July 1968 showed that the macrobenthos was characterized by both low diversity and low density because of unfavorable environmental conditions of salinity and sediment. The statistical sampling design for this study was stratification of the estuary and equal random allocation of samples. Only 18 species were found, and the Shannon-Weaver information diversity index (H) showed low values of 0.66-1.77. In addition, low density values (maximum number of organisms at any station was 629/m^2) further indicated that stressing salinity conditions and unstable sediments are factors that make this estuary unfavorable for the benthos. The absence of benthic life in much of the deeper portions of the estuary correlated directly with anoxic conditions in these areas. On the basis of trellis diagrams, the estuary was divided into three areas: (1) and oligohaline zone dominated by Rangia cuneata and Nereis succinea; (2) a mesohaline zone with a Macoma balthica-Heteromastus filiformis-Nereis succinea association; and (3) a polyhaline zone at the mouth of the estuary characterized by a Macoma phenax-Mulinia lateralis-Glycera dibranchiata association. A seasonal sampling program, with transects located in these communities, showed vast seasonal changes in species composition, range of distribution, density, and community delimitation caused by larva set in the estuary. A total of 36 species was found during this 1968-69 sampling program. Although a few species, such as Rangia cuneata and Nereis sucinea, showed relatively little change in densities and range of distribution, most of the benthos underwent great fluctuations due to recruitment from new set. Settling periods in the fall and spring added large numbers of juveniles to the benthos, not only in the deeper portions where re-establishment of life was found after the late fall mixing destroyed the anoxic conditions, but also in the shallow areas. Due to this recruitment, the distribution of communities in the estuary changed so drastically during the year that a great homogeneity was found throughout the estuary during the winter and spring sampling periods. Ho ever, the communities noted in the preliminary sampling reappeared in the summer. Thus the macrobenthos undergoes significant seasonal cycles in the Pamlico River estuary.
10.2307/1942157|The net primary productivity of the pine species and lesser vegetation (herbaceous ground cover) plus turnover rates between the litter layer and soil organic matter were investigated in young loblolly and slash pine plantations in Beaufort County, North Carolina. Estimations of the aboveground tree biomass and production by components were made by applying multiple regression, weight-prediction equations developed from harvest data (15 slash pine and 41 loblolly pine trees) to tree dimensions from 28 permanent, undisturbed plots. Optimal plot size was determined by time-cost analysis. Total biomass for slash pine ranged from 5.2 mt/ha and 9.9 kg/tree (age 4) to 31.7 mt/ha and 29.8 kg/tree (age 8), and loblolly pine ranged from 4.2 mt/ha and 4.7 kg/tree (age 4) to 107.6 mt/ha and 82.7/tree (age 12). Net production for slash pine was greater than loblolly pine and ranged from 3.9 mt/ha per year and 8.0 kg/tree per year (age 4) to 12.3 mt/ha per year and 11.6 kg/tree per year (age 8). Loblolly pine produced from 4.3 mt/ha per year and 4.8 kg/tree per year (age 4) to 4.1 mt/ha per year and 4.3 mt/ha per year (age 8). Net primary production of loblolly pine was 22.3 mt/ha per year and 18.8 kg/tree per year at age 10 and 11 and dropped to 18.4 mt/ha per year and 13.6 kg/tree per year at age 12. The decrease in production rate of loblolly pine at age 12 was correlated with a decrease in branch needle biomass as canopy closure progressed. Five root systems were excavated, and percentage of aboveground tree biomass was used to calculate root biomass and production. Canopy closure also caused a decrease in net primary production of the lesser vegetation from 1.8 mt/ha per year in the open stands to 0.2 mt/ha per year under closed stands. Simultaneously, the ground-litter component increased from 3.7 to 5.8 mt/ha through litter fall, and the turnover rate to the soil decreased. Soil organic matter accounted for 88% (102.0 mt/ha) to 52% (124.0 mt/ha) of total plot biomass in the youngest and oldest stands, respectively. Caloric analysis was done on all plant material and ground litter. The results are presented as net primary production and turnover rates (10^9 cal/ha per year).
10.2307/3100036| The problem of scale has been a critical impediment to incorporating important fine-scale processes into global ecosystem models. Our knowledge of fine-scale physiological and ecological processes comes from a variety of measurements, ranging from forest plot inventories to remote sensing, made at spatial resolutions considerably smaller than the large scale at which global ecosystem models are defined. In this paper, we describe a new individual-based, terrestrial biosphere model, which we label the ecosystem demography model (ED). We then introduce a general method for scaling stochastic individual-based models of ecosystem dynamics (gap models) such as ED to large scales. The method accounts for the fine-scale spatial heterogeneity within an ecosystem caused by stochastic disturbance events, operating at scales down to individual canopy-tree-sized gaps. By conditioning appropriately on the occurrence of these events, we derive a size- and age-structured (SAS) approximation for the first moment of the stochastic ecosystem model. With this approximation, it is possible to make predictions about the large scales of interest from a description of the fine-scale physiological and population-dynamic processes without simulating the fate of every plant individually. We use the SAS approximation to implement our individual-based biosphere model over South America from 15 N to 15 S, showing that the SAS equations are accurate across a range of environmental conditions and resulting ecosystem types. We then compare the predictions of the biosphere model to regional data and to intensive data at specific sites. Analysis of the model at these sites illustrates the importance of fine-scale heterogeneity in governing large-scale ecosystem function, showing how population and community-level processes influence ecosystem composition and structure, patterns of aboveground carbon accumulation, and net ecosystem production. 
10.2307/2937048|It is often claimed that predation pressure on plants and animals increases toward the equator. Here I address the specific hypothesis that predation pressure is greater on lower latitude populations of the lizard Uta stansburiana. Standard mark-recapture techniques (10 997 captures of 5371 individuals) were used to estimate mortality rates for seven populations that lie along a transect of nearly 15@? latitude (central Washington to extreme southeastern California, USA). Mortality was estimated for both the early (i.e., spring to summer) and late (i.e., summer to late summer or fall) portions of the activity season. As in previous studies of this species, I found that emigration was negligible for adult lizards. Thus, disappearance rates serve as reliable indices of mortality rates. Although predation is known to be a major source of mortality for populations of U. stansburiana, direct measurement (i.e., observation) of the demographic impact of predators is impractical. My strategy was to examine the potential demographic importance of mortality sources other than predation (e.g., senescence, physiological stress). If alternate sources of mortality can be shown to be of trivial importance, then overall mortality rates can be used to infer variation in predation pressure. To assess the importance of these mortality factors I examined variation in mortality within sites (e.g., among seasons, years, and individuals) in relation to data about the lizard (e.g., age, physical condition) and about their environment (e.g., recent precipitation). My results suggest that predation is the only source of activity season mortality that is of demographic importance for these populations. For example, I found no evidence that physiological stress was ever an important source of mortality. Lizards in relatively poor physical condition (i.e., those with small length-corrected mass) did not experience a greater risk of mortality, and survival actually increased during the presumably more stressful late activity season. Mortality rates were also depressed during a drought at one site, despite the poor physical condition of the lizards. Low mortality rates during the late activity season and during drought conditions probably reflect reduced activity of U. stansburiana and their predators. Reduced activity levels discourage predator-prey encounters. Because sources of mortality other than predation appear to be of trivial demographic importance, overall mortality rates can be used to infer relative predation rates. Accordingly, I examined latitudinal variation in mortality rates to address the hypothesis that predation pressure is greater on lower latitude populations of U. stansburiana. Daily mortality rates were not higher among southern populations. Even annual losses to predators do not appear to be greater among lower latitude populations. These results were surprising because U. stansburiana is one of the species for which predation pressure was thought to increase with decreasing latitude. Higher than expected mortality rates in the north may in part be due to longer daily activity periods among northern Uta and their predators. Interestingly, several indirect measures of predation intensity (e.g., tail break frequencies, measures of predator species richness) did increase significantly from north to south. Thus, these less direct measures of predation pressure yielded a misleading impression of latitudinal variation in predation pressure.
4539053|Variations in interspecific competition, abundance, and alpha and beta diversities of corals were studied from 1962 to 2000 at different localities on the reef at Heron Island, Great Barrier Reef, Australia. Reductions in abundance and diversity were caused by direct damage by storms and elimination in competition. Recovery after such reductions was influenced by differences in the size of the species pools of recruits, and in contrasting competitive processes in different environments. In some places, the species pool of coral larval recruits is very low, so species richness (S) and diversity (D) never rise very high. At other sites, this species pool of recruits is larger, and S and D soon rise to high levels. After five different hurricanes destroyed corals at some sites during the 38-year period, recovery times of S and D ranged from 3 to 25 years. One reason for the variety of recovery times is that the physical environment was sometimes so drastically changed during the hurricane that a long period was required to return it to a habitat suitable for corals. Once S and D have peaked during recolonization, they may either remain at a high level, or decline. In shallow water, with no deleterious changes in environmental conditions, S and D may not decline over time, because superior competitors cannot overtop inferior competitors without exposing themselves to deleterious aerial exposure at low tide. At other times and places, S and D did decline over time. One cause of this was a gradual deterioration of the physical environment, as corals grew upward into the intertidal region and died of exposure. S and D also fell because the wave action in hurricanes either killed colonies in whole or part, or changed the drainage patterns over the reef crest, leaving corals high and dry at low tide. At deeper sites, declines in S and D were sometimes caused by heavy wave action, or by interspecific competition, as some corals overgrew or overtopped their neighbors and eliminated them.
10.2307/2937166|Between 1987 and 1990, we estimated seedfall and recorded age, growth, and survival of 10 933 tree and vine seedlings growing in the understories of four bottom land hardwood forests in South Carolina. The forests differed in flood frequency, soils, and vegetation structure but had a number of woody plant species in common. Several demographic processes were consistent for all four forests as well as for floodplain forests described in other published studies. Smaller seeded species had larger numbers of seeds dispersed, germinants, and established seedlings. Seed size, however, was not clearly related to seedling survival. Published rankings of shade and flood tolerances were also unrelated to survival, at least during the first growing season after germination. Seedling survival rates were least during the first growing season and greater in subsequent years. Within a growing season, early germinants had greater survival. For some species, survival was negatively related to basal area of neighboring conspecific adult trees. Some aspects of the regeneration process were more site specific. Within species, seedfall densities relative to adult tree abundance differed across forests by an order of magnitude. First-year seedling mortality rates were significantly affected by site and site x species interactions. Mortality in subsequent years was also significantly affected by site. Although the role of flooding in site-specific mortality was not clear, small elevation changes within flooded sites were correlated with changes in germination and survival for some species.
10.2307/2937245|Nine species of sympatric rain forest tree squirrels were studied in the field and in captivity at Makokou, Gabon. The findings on resource partitioning among them include: (1) two species are restricted to special habitat types. The other seven which commonly co-occur in the mature rain forest formation represent a maximum of taxonomic diversity. (2) Differential use of the vertical vegetation column divides these seven species into four essentially arboreal and three ground-foraging forms. (3) The species occupying a given foraging level and habitat differ in body size by approximately Hutchinson's ratio. Body size can act to partition fruit resources by size and hardness. (4) The squirrels are frugivores or omnivores; there are quantitative differences in diet between some species. These differences vary seasonally and may only be important during the most difficult season. (5) The four largest species have short active periods. I suggest that the greater species richness in African compared to Nearctic forests is permitted by a more constant productivity of fruit and arthropods, and a higher plant species diversity in the African forest.
10.2307/1942166|Alpine larch (Larix lyallii) grows in or near the timberline zone on high mountains of the inland northern portion of the Pacific Northwest. Unlike other subalpine conifers, which are evergreens, this deciduous larch displays an affinity for cold rocky sites and often grows in tree form higher up on north slopes than even krummholz (shrubby) forms of its associates. Overstory and understory vegetations in alpine larch communities were only indirectly correlated. Vaccinium scoparium, Luzula glabrata, and Phyllodoce empetriformis were the most common understory dominants. The distinctly snowy-cold-timberline nature of alpine larch habitats is emphasized by the presence of Cassiope mertensiana, Phyllodoce glanduliflora, and Abies lasiocarpa krummholz among the 11 most common understory species. Unlike the larch, which is generally restricted to the timberline zone, nearly all associated plants have broader distributions in the subalpine forest proper or above tree limit. Alpine larch is a climax species on a wide variety of sites too severe for the more shade tolerant evergreens to form unbroken stands because of shortness of growing season, rock terrain, avalanches, blizzards, or extreme dryness or bogginess. When alpine larch ascends into what would otherwise be a strictly alpine habitat (above the limits of other conifers), its stands apparently modify the surface environment since subalpine understory species are generally able to ascend with it. Rarely the undergrowth is dominated by tundra species. Alpine larch is superior in invading freshly glaciated sites. The positive correlation of alpine larch to acidic substrates poor in mineral ions is in contrast to the substrate relationship of many other timberline conifers, which are calciphiles.
10.2307/3100053|The goal of this research was to examine spatial patterns of forest understory vegetation at a fine resolution for future work on underlying processes. We used a cyclic, two-dimensional sampling design, sampling plants in 2100 quadrats (0.25 m
10.2307/2937137|Abundance of early juvenile Dungeness crab (Cancer magister) is dramatically higher in intertidal shell habitats compared to mud habitats in several coastal estuaries of the Pacific Northwest. To define the mechanisms underlying this habitat-specific pattern in abundance, we concurrently examined four components of recruitment to intertidal shell and mud habitats at two locations within the Grays Harbor estuary (Washington, USA): (1) water column supply of crab megalopae (postlarvae); (2) settlement patterns of crab megalopae 8 h after settlement substrates were deployed; (3) density of first benthic juvenile instars (J1) 48 h after deployment of such substrates; and (4) density of early juvenile crab in shell and mud habitats over a 4-mo period. We also describe the physical processes likely to be influencing postlarval supply within Grays Harbor, and take advantage of natural variation in postlarval supply between two locations, in combination with a predator exclusion experiment, to define the relative importance of postlarval supply vs. post-settlement survival in regulating population size of juvenile crab in certain intertidal habitats. Water column postlarval supply (measured with plankton and neuston nets, and artificial settlement substrates) in terms of both megalopal density (number per cubic metre) and flux (number per hour) was significantly higher in the southern part of the estuary vs. the northern part during a week-long settlement pulse. Our field observations and measurements suggest that spatial variation in postlarval supply was due to local differneces in wind-driven surface currents, since tidal current speeds in the two locations were similar. More-over, there was no correlation between current speed and flux of megalopae over the bottom. There was generally no difference in postlarval supply between shell and mud habitats. Our experimental results further indicate that: (1) the abundance of recently settled crab megalopae in 0.25 m^2 settlement trays was significantly higher in shell than in mud habitats, irrespective of whether the trays were placed in 3-5 ha of shell vs. mud; (2) there was a positive and significant correlation between postlarval supply and density of megalopae in shell and mud habitats; and (3) there was a positive and significant correlation between postlarval supply and density of J1 instars only in habitats where specific predators were excluded. Once the number of J1 instars at both geographical locations was reduced to similar levels, equivalent but steadily decreasing densities persisted throughout the summer growing season. The decoupling of settlement patterns and density of J1 instars took place within our 48-h sampling interval. Thus, future attempts to examine the correspondence between larval supply and post-settlement abundance of marine benthic species with planktonic larvae should do so at extremely small temporal scales or a critical life history phase may be overlooked. The results from this study demonstrate that substrate selection can affect distribution of juvenile crab, and that predation (including cannibalism) is a key factor regulating local population size of early juvenile crabs in intertidal habitats where postlarval supply is relatively high.
10.2307/3100066|This paper reports on the response by amphibians, benthic macroinvertebrates, and zooplankton in naturally fishless alpine lakes to fish introductions and subsequent fish disappearance. We assessed resistance (the degree to which a system is altered when the environment changes) by comparing faunal distribution and abundance in lakes that have never been stocked with fish vs. the distribution and abundance in lakes that have been stocked and still contain fish. We assessed resilience (the degree and rate of a system's return to its previous configuration once the perturbation is removed) by comparing faunal distribution and abundance in lakes that were stocked at one time but have since reverted to a fishless condition (stocked-now-fishless lakes) vs. the distribution and abundance in lakes that have never been stocked. We quantified recovery rates and trajectories by comparing faunal assemblages of stocked-now-fishless lakes that had been fishless for 5-10, 11-20, and >20 yr. Faunal assemblages in the study lakes had low resistance to fish introductions, but in general showed high resilience. The mountain yellow-legged frog (Rana muscosa), conspicuous benthic macroinvertebrates, and large crustacean zooplankton (>1 mm) were dramatically reduced in distribution and abundance by fish introductions but generally recovered to predisturbance levels after fish disappearance. Inconspicuous benthic invertebrate taxa, small crustacean zooplankton (<1 mm), and rotiferan zooplankton (<0.2 mm) were either unaffected by fish or increased in the presence of fish. For both the benthic macroinvertebrate community and the zooplankton community as a whole, fish disappearance was followed by a steady change away from the configuration characteristic of fish-containing lakes and toward that of lakes that had never been stocked. Both communities remained markedly different from those in never-stocked lakes 5-10 yr after fish disappearance and converged on the configuration of never-stocked lakes only 11-20 yr after fish disappearance. Recovery was likely facilitated by the winged adult stages of many benthic macroinvertebrates, resting eggs of zooplankton, and nearby source populations of frogs. However, many frog populations have disappeared since the time that lakes in this study reverted to a fishless condition, and the viability of zooplankton egg banks should decline in fish-containing lakes over time. As a result, faunal resilience may be lower in lakes that revert to a fishless condition today than is suggested by the results of our study. These findings have important implications for the restoration of alpine lake ecosystems.
10.2307/2657150|Projected climate warming will potentially have profound effects on the earth's biota, including a large redistribution of tree species. We developed models to evaluate potential shifts for 80 individual tree species in the eastern United States. First, environmental factors associated with current ranges of tree species were assessed using geographic information systems (GIS) in conjunction with regression tree analysis (RTA). The method was then extended to better understand the potential of species to survive and/or migrate under a changed climate. We collected, summarized, and analyzed data for climate, soils, land use, elevation, and species assemblages for >2100 counties east of the 100th meridian. Forest Inventory Analysis (FIA) data for >100 000 forested plots in the East provided the tree species range and abundance information for the trees. RTA was used to devise prediction rules from current species-environment relationships, which were then used to replicate the current distribution as well as predict the future potential distributions under two scenarios of climate change with twofold increases in the level of atmospheric CO
10.2307/1942368|In Newfoundland many sites occupied by Picea mariana forests and Kalmia angustifolia heathland formerly supported an Abies balsamea forest. Stands of each cover type were studied to determine whether these vegetation changes affect the fertility of the sites. They were selected on the basis of similarity of soil conditions; all occurred on well-drained, sandy glaciofluvial soils and had developed after a forest fire about 65 years ago. In the Kalmia heath the raw humus horizon weighed 293 tons/ha and contained 3,070 kg N, 436 kg Ca, 118 kg P, and 99 kg K per hectare. In contrast, the raw humus of the Picea forest weighed 87 tons/ha and that of the Abies forest only 65 tons/ha; nutrient contents were proportionally lower with N showing the largest, and K the smallest, differences between cover types. The annual return of organic matter and nutrients is highest in the Abies forest and lowest in the Kalmia heath. Litter fall is the single most important source in the forests, but annual root mortality contributes most in the Kalmia heath. Additions from the moss layer amounted to about one-tenth of the annual return in the forests. The rate of organic-matter decomposition decreases from Abies to Picea to Kalmia cover type, with accumulations in the raw humus representing 14, 21, and 78 times the annual supply of the present stands, respectively. Mineralization of N and P show the same trend, but Ca and K mineralization are slower in the Kalmia heath only. A comparison of the nutrients in the Abies and Kalmia cover types showed that actual losses of K, and possibly Ca, had occurred from the Kalmia ecosystem during the 65-year period since the fire, and that the quantity of N in the Kalmia ecosystem was about double that in the Abies cover type. A net input of more than 23 kg/ha per year is required to account for this increase. No reliable comparison could be made between the Picea and Abies ecosystems, but the data available do not indicate any obvious fertility changes beyond a greater immobilization of nutrients in the raw humus of the Picea forest.
10.2307/2963479|A spatial and mechanistic model is developed for the dynamics of transition oak-northern hardwoods forests in northeastern North America. The purpose of the model is to extrapolate from measurable fine-scale and short-term interactions among individual trees to large-scale and long-term dynamics of forest communities. Field methods, statistical estimators, and model structure were designed simultaneously to ensure that parameters could be estimated from data collected in the field. This paper documents eight aspects of a three-year study to calibrate, test, and analyze the model for the nine dominant and subdominant tree species in transition oak-northern hardwoods forests: 1) Design and structure of the model. The model makes population dynamic forecasts by predicting the fate of every individual tree throughout its life. Species-specific functions predict each tree's dispersal, establishment, growth, mortality, and fecundity. Trees occupy unique spatial positions, and individual performance is affected by the local availability of resources. Competition is mechanistic; resources available to each tree are reduced by neighbors. Although the model was developed to include light, water, and nitrogen, the version described here includes only competition for light (shading and light-dependent performance) because the field data provide little evidence of competition for nitrogen and water over the range of sites examined. 2) Estimates of the model's parameters for each species. The estimates reveal a variety of "strategic trade-offs" among the species. For example, species that grow quickly under high light tend to cast relatively little shade, have low survivorship under low light, and have high dispersal. In contrast, species that grow slowly under high light tend to cast relatively dark shade, and to have high survivorship under low light and low dispersal. These trade-offs define one of two dominant "axes" of strategic variation. 3) Community level predictions of the model. The model predicts succession from early dominance by species such as Quercus rubra and Prunus serotina, to late dominance by Fagus grandifolia and Tsuga canadensis, with Betula alleganiensis present as a gap phase species in old-growth stands. The model also predicts that old-growth communities will have intraspecifically clumped and interspecifically segregated spatial distributions. 4) An error analysis that identifies community level predictions that are robust given the level of sampling uncertainty in the study. This analysis translates the statistical uncertainty associated with each parameter estimate into statistical uncertainty in the model's predictions. The robust predictions include those mentioned in aspect (3) above. 5) Sensitivity of the model to changes in initial conditions and to changes in the three parameters not included in the error analysis. For example, the model predicts that initial abundances continue to affect community composition well into succession (> 300 yr for some species). 6) Tests of the system- and community-level predictions of the model against independent data gleaned from other studies. These tests support the predictions found to be robust in the error analysis, including those predictions mentioned in aspect (3) above. 7) Modeling experiments that determine which aspects of individual performance and inter-neighbor competition are responsible for each of the robust predictions identified in aspect (4) above and tested in aspect (6) above. This analysis reveals a wide variety of causal relationships, with most parameters contributing to at least one community level phenomenon. 8) An explanation of the diversity of individual level causes identified in aspect (7). The two "axes" describing most of the strategic variation among the species (see [2]), provide a simple explanation of community level pattern in terms of individual level processes.
10.2307/2937023|Fire is an ecosystem property rather than an exogenous force in southern California chaparral, and it interacts with processes of drought-mediated canopy development, production, and mortality to affect stability of community composition. Where species that must reproduce from seed, such as Ceanothus crassifolius or Ceanothus oliganthus, are predominant, composition can be altered by a single fire with little or no recruitment after initial postfire establishment. Water balance apparently regulates subsequent leaf area development; after 15-22 yr of postfire growth, foliage biomass in monospecific C. crassifolius stands in this study had approached a maximum that was unrelated to incident solar radiation and insensitive to initial population density over a 10-fold range. Thus, establishment success, above that required for canopy closure, should have little effect on the foliage biomass that sustains combustion. After canopy closure, total biomass accumulated at an accelerating rate through at least two decades with aboveground net primary production as great as 12-13 Mg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1. C. crassifolius mortality was substantially less than predicted from growth rates and the -3/2 power model of Yoda et al. (1963), and there was no approach to a common asymptotic density by stands of disparate initial density. With low deadwood biomass and absence of ground fuels, c. crassifolius cannot sustain burning in the absence of wind, steep slopes, or exceptionally low live-fuel moisture. Increased Ceanothus abundance in multispecies communities with Adenostoma fasciculatum or Salvia mellifera alters biomass structure and could modify subsequent fire effects even if foliage area fully redevelops in concert with site water balance. Rare, low-intensity fires can devastate Ceanothus chaparral, that reproduces only from seed. Salvia mellifera and Eriogonum fasciculatum can occupy resulting openings in the canopy, and their abundant deadwood and compact biomass can readily spread low-intensity fires, thereby perpetuating the degraded community. Productive stands within a chaparral association are probably subject to especially severe fires that limit nutrient accumulation and may also limit subsequent productivity. Copious nitrogen volatilization during burning is promoted by high nitrogen concentrations in foliage and fine woody biomass of Ceanothus and heavy leaf litter of Quercus dumosa and C. crassifolius. The communities most prone to severe fires also accumulate and cycle nitrogen and phosphorus rapidly.
10.2307/2963465|Many landscapes are characterized by a mosaic of patches in various stages of succession. Whether successional paths dampen, track, or magnify extrinsic variation in initial conditions influences how much historical and site-specific detail is required to explain variation in patch composition. I investigated the patterns and importance of historical effects in a successional marine rocky intertidal community on the central coast of Oregon, USA. Patches in the mid-intertidal mussel bed (M. californianus) were manually cleared in a way that mimicked natural disturbances. In four separate blocks (large patches  9 m
10.2307/2937145|Landscapes are hierarchical mosaics of patches that differ in their age, size, shape, content, and other aspects. The Jasper Ridge serpentine grassland exemplifies hierarchical patchiness and pattern-process interactions that are common features of natural ecosystems. Gopher mounds formed each year destroy all the plant individuals underneath and result in conspicuous spatial pattern in the landscape. A snapshot of the system is, therefore, a reflection of the patch mosaic of gopher mounds that are different in age and species composition and abundance. Based on a patch dynamics perspective, we have developed a spatially explicit patch-based modeling approach to studying landscape pattern and process dynamics. The simulation model (PatchMod) has two major components: a spatially explicit, age- and size-structured patch demographic model and a multiple-species plant population dynamic model. We use this simulation model to examine the spatiotemporal dynamics of the disturbance patches and of populations of two species on the local and landscape scales. The spatial patch dynamic model can relate spatiotemporal dynamics of plant populations to the age- and size-structured disturbance patch population, taking into account variability in microhabitats, complexity in patch overlap, and patch-based plant competition. The localized gopher disturbances can significantly structure the vegetation dynamics at the landscape level. Local populations at the patch level may go extinct frequently, though metapopulations may show little fluctuation. Disturbance promotes coexistence of Bromus mollis and Lasthenia californica by divorcing local competitive exclusion and global extinction. The functional representation of an ecological relationship such as density-dependent fecundity at the local patch scale may be transmuted by patchiness at the landscape scale.
10.2307/1942332|Net primary productivity and distribution of mixed grassland plant communities in western North Dakota were studied. The semiarid continental climate supports several grassland types, delimited on the bases of topography and substratum. The dominant species and herbage (shoot) production (mean of 2 yr) of stands located on what were classified as silty range sites included, on rolling upland, (1) Stipa viridula (128 g m^-^2), Stipa comata (128 g m^-^2), and (3) Bouteloua gracilis (110 g m^-^2); on ravine slopes, (4) Stipa spartea-forbs (135 g m^-^2) and (5) Andropogon spp. (126 g m^-^2). On sandy range sites were found, in shallower ravine bottoms and at bases of slopes, (6) Sporobolus heterolepis-Stipa spartea (160 g m^-^2) and (7) Sporobolus heterolepis (185 g m^-^2); on slopes with very sandy soils, (8) A. scoparius-Stipa spartea (132 g m^-^2), (9) A. scoparius-forbs (107 g m^-^2), and (10) A. scoparius (119 g m^-^2). The highest annual herbage production was measured in Stand 7 (200 g m^-^2) and the lowest in Stand 3 (77 g m^-^2). Root mass ranged from 6230 g m^-^2 (Stand 7) to 3030 g m^-^2 (Stand 9). Annual root production could not be measured but was estimated to be equivalent to herbage production. Variation in herbage production between sites and between years was attributed to differences in soil moisture and fertility (especially the latter in sites with sandy soils). Fresh mulch was highest in the Stipa-dominated sites (288-320 g m^-^2) and lowest in Andropogon- and Bouteloua-dominated stands (212-234 g m^-^2). The highest fresh mulch decay constant and shortest equilibrium time were determined to occur in sites dominated by Sporobolus heterolepis, and the converse for Stipa-dominated sites. Chlorophyll values ranged from 78 mg m^-^2 (Stand 3) to 542 mg m^-^2 (Stand 7); variation depended on plant morphology and phenology as well as biomass. Maximum efficiency in herbage production occurred later in the year for stands with a large warm-season component (Sporobolus heterolepis an Andropogon spp.) than in sites dominated by cool-season grasses (Stipa spp.). On an annual basis, Stand 7 was most efficient (0.12%) and Stand 3 least (0.06%). The interrelationships between drought tolerance, phenology (cool- vs. warm-season development), physiology, and production are discussed.
10.2307/1942543|Spatial and temporal variation in dispersal and recruitment of the kelps Macrocystis pyrifera and Pterygophora californica and of filamentous brown algae (FBA) consisting primarily of Ectocarpus siliculosus were examined off southern California, USA. These three taxa of sublittoral brown algae show enormous differences in adult morphology and demography, but release propagules near the bottom that are similar in size, shape, and motility. Their weekly variation in recruitment was measured on replicate frosted glass slides placed at different distances from stands of fertile adults at three sites. For all taxa, significant temporal variation was observed in recruitment at the zoospore source as well as at distances out to 4000 m from the source. For the kelps, this variation was due to variable rates of both zoospore settlement and early postsettlement mortality. In general, recruitment density of both kelps rapidly declined with distance from the adult stand; significantly lower recruitment was observed at as little as 3 m away. In contrast, dispersal of FBA was much greater; no significant decrease in recruitment density was observed out to 500 m. The differences in dispersal between these two algal groups may result from behavioral differences of their zoospores. Unlike those of kelps, zoospores of FBA are positively phototatic. This enables FBA zoospores to remain in the water column longer, thus increasing the distances over which they disperse. The predominant pattern of limited dispersal in the two kelps, however, was not constant over time. Dispersal was greatly expanded during episodic periods of high recruitment that coincided with winter storms. Turbulent water flower associated with these storms may resuspend kelp zoospores normally occurring near the bottom and allow them to be transported greater distances by prevailing currents. Although species characteristics of the adult stand appeared to influence the distribution of recruits, the effect disappeared within 10 m of the stand. At a short-range study site, decreases in spatial variation in recruitment density between the zoospore source and 3 and 10 m away indicated that the distribution of zoospores became more uniform with distance. Likewise at a long-range site, recruitment out to 4000 m appeared to occur uniformly and coincided with recruitment at the zoospore source and at all intermediate distances. This uniformity and coincidence of recruitment indicated that dispersal over longer distances was probably via individual zoospores rather than via clumps of drifting plants or reproductive fragments as suggested in previous studies. Although episodic, such dispersal is probably essential in promoting the persistence of these plants in highly disturbed and unpredictable environments.
10.2307/1942434|Extensive sampling of chaparral with 10-m line intercepts in the San Gabriel and San Bernardino Mountains of southern California revealed site-oriented vegetative characteristics and successional patterns. Of the 78 species encountered, few were widespread and abundant; most were local and infrequent. The most widespread and abundant species were long-lived rootcrown sprouters. Adenostoma fasciculatum (chamise), the most frequently encountered shrub, occurred on 71.4% of the sites and composed one-fifth of all shrubs in the study. The second most common species, Quercus dumosa (scrub oak), appeared on 32% of the sites sampled. Many non-sprouting subshrubs and woody species were restricted to elevations below 3,000 ft (ca. 900 m), sunny exposures, and young stands. Chaparral succession, both in composition and rate of change, is influenced most by aspect, particularly north- and south-facing slopes. Next in importance is the influence of coastal and desert exposure. Elevation is a factor that may compensate for coastal-desert exposure or aspect. Percentage of slope is least important. The rate of succession after fire in coastal chaparral is slowest on south-facing slopes below 3,000 ft. Early stages of shrub succession are characterized by a mixture of chaparral seedlings, resprouts, and seedlings of coastal sage subshrubs. Most of the present-day chaparral on south-facing slopes is a coastal sage-chaparral subclimax due to frequent fire. On fire-free sites a chamise-chaparral climax community develops within 30 years after fire. The fastest succession rate is in coastal chaparral on north-facing slopes above 3,000 ft. The profusion of coastal sage subshrubs is missing, and vigorous, tall-growing sprouting species are abundant. The death of large, short-lived species in stands older than 25 years allows pockets of seral species to develop in the climax scrub oak-chaparral. Chaparral succession is not a series of vegetational replacements, but a gradual ascendance of long-lived species present in the pre-fire stand. The pattern of chaparral succession on desert exposures differs from that on coastal exposures. Slope aspect is less important, but proximity to the Pacific Ocean is more important than on coastal exposures. Fire favors the sprouting species of chaparral over woodland and forest communities bordering the chaparral communities. Fewer chaparral species occur on desert exposures than on coastal ones. Seedling and mature shrub mortality rates are lower in desert than in coastal chaparral. Succession after fire in desert chaparral is slow, and the climax community is composed of large shrub specimens with subshrubs clustered around their skirts and a canopy broken by intershrub spaces. Chaparral stands older than 60 years often are decadent, especially chamise-chaparral. Old stands are characterized by a high proportion of dead wood, little annual growth, and no new seedling development. Various phytotoxic substances may account for the loss of vitality and lack of regeneration. Maintenance of vigorous chamise-chaparral is shown to be dependent on fire. A re-evaluation of current fire-exclusion and suppression practices is needed. The present fire-exclusion policy is probably the least desirable one to insure the perpetuation of chamise-chaparral.
27646155|Plantation development is a significant form of landscape change worldwide. We report findings from a large-scale longitudinal natural experiment that quantified changes in Australian vertebrates as a former grazing landscape was transformed to one dominated by a radiata pine (Pinus radiata) plantation. The study included four main "treatments": woodland remnants surrounded by emerging radiata pine (52 sites, termed "woodland treatments"), stands of radiata pine (10 sites, "pine controls"), woodland remnants where the surrounding landscape remained unchanged (56 sites, "woodland controls"), and paddocks with scattered woodland trees that surrounded the 56 woodland remnants (10 sites, "paddock controls"). In our study region, woodland is distinguished from forest by differences in tree height, tree spacing, bole length, and canopy development. Between 1998 and 2006, occupancy rates of "woodland treatments" by most mammals and reptiles increased linearly. Similar trends occurred in the "woodland controls," suggesting that species had increased landscape-wide, rather than displaying year  treatment interaction effects. We cross-classified birds according to the statistical significance and nature of time trajectories. Groups included those that: (1) declined in woodland treatments in comparison with woodland controls, (2) decreased within woodland treatments but increased in woodland controls, (3) declined across the entire study area, (4) increased within woodland treatments in comparison with woodland controls, (5) increased within woodland treatments but declined in woodland controls, and (6) increased across the entire study area. Attributes of woodland treatments significantly associated with temporal changes in bird occupancy included: (1) age of surrounding pine stands; (2) number of boundaries with surrounding pines; (3) size of the woodland patches; (4) dominant vegetation type of woodland patches; and (5) temporal changes in vegetation structure in the woodland treatments. Bird species associated with open country and woodland environments were disadvantaged by landscape transformation, whereas those that benefited were forest taxa and/or habitat generalists capable of inhabiting pine stands and adjacent woodland patches. Beyond this generalization, an unanticipated finding was a lack of association between life history attributes and landscape transformation. We suggest that several key processes are likely drivers of change at multiple spatial scales. Recognition of such processes is important for conservation in landscapes transformed by plantation expansion.
10.2307/3100082|We report findings of a large-scale study in a 100 000-ha subsection of the Tumut region in southern New South Wales, southeastern Australia. The study was designed to measure the effects of landscape context and habitat fragmentation on forest birds. The study region consisted of a forest mosaic characterized by different landscape contexts: large, continuous areas of native Eucalyptus forest, extensive stands of exotic softwood (radiata pine, Pinus radiata) plantation, and remnant patches of native Eucalyptus forest scattered throughout the extensive areas of radiata pine plantation. A set of 85 eucalypt remnants was randomly selected across several stratifying variables: four patch size classes (1-3 ha, 4-10 ha, 11-20 ha, and >20 ha), two isolation age classes (<20 years and >20 years since fragmentation), and five dominant eucalypt forest type classes. In addition to the 85 eucalypt remnants, a further 80 3-ha sites were selected for study: 40 in large, continuous areas of eucalypt forest and 40 in radiata pine stands. Point-interval counts of forest birds at the 165 sites were conducted in 1996 and 1997. Of 90 species recorded, 23.1 species (95% confidence interval, 22.0, 24.2 species), on average, were present in continuous eucalypt forest, 20.6 (19.5, 21.7) species in patch-shaped eucalypt remnants, 20.6 (19.5, 21.7) species in strip-shaped eucalypt remnants, and 16.7 (15.6, 17.8) species in radiata pine. Strong gradients in bird assemblages were found. These gradients were governed by a combination of landscape context, remnant size, and remnant shape effects, and, in the case of radiata pine sites, the extent of native forest surrounding the pine. These gradients could, in part, be explained by bird life history attributes such as foraging guild and nesting height. For example, birds more often detected in patch-shaped remnants were smaller, produced smaller clutches, were more likely to be migratory, and typically had cup nests or burrows. The results of our study showed that eucalypt fragments of all sizes and shapes have significant conservation value. This is because they contain many native species of birds, some of which are more abundant in fragments than they are in continuous eucalypt forests, and also because they increase native bird populations in nearby non-native pine plantations.
27646052|We examined the structure of rocky intertidal communities on the central Patagonian coast of Argentina. Extensive beds of the mussel Perumytilus purpuratus cover wave-exposed headlands from the low to extreme high intertidal (>95%), and a diverse assemblage of diminutive mobile invertebrates including limpets, starfish, and crabs live exclusively in the mussel bed matrix to avoid physical stress. On nearby wave-protected rocky shores, the high intertidal habitat is dominated by bare space (>85%) with mussels restricted to tide pools and crevices. Mussel beds cover the middle intertidal, while the low intertidal habitat is dominated by the erect coralline alga Corallina officanalis. These patterns are driven overwhelmingly by variation in extreme physical conditions. Desiccation stress generated by the dry southern trade winds is harsher than in any previously studied rocky intertidal system, including the Gulf of Panama, by >30% and is more severe on wave-protected than wave-exposed shores. Transplant experiments suggest that on wave-protected shores desiccation stress limits the upper distribution of mussels in the high intertidal and Corallina in the mid-intertidal, but at low intertidal elevations Corallina outcompetes mussels, restricting mussel distribution to mid-intertidal elevations. Transplant experiments also demonstrated that the coralline alga is precluded from wave-exposed shores by wave stress. Recovery from disturbance is unusually slow, ostensibly due to extreme physical stress. Consumer pressure is weak, with no common predaceous crabs or snails, and grazing by limpets showed limited control of community development, mostly by regulating ephemeral algae. Patagonian rocky shore communities are exposed to unusually harsh physical conditions and consequently are more strongly organized by physical stress than previously studied rocky intertidal communities.
10.2307/2657242|The distribution of many woodland herbs extends 1000-2000 km in a north-south direction, yet the majority of these species grow clonally, have little recruitment by seed, and possess no obvious mechanism for long-distance seed dispersal. Although aware that woodland herbs disperse poorly, ecologists have tacitly assumed that, given long periods of time, even small dispersal distances would allow woodland herbs to colonize the vast geographic region they now occupy. We examined this assumption for the understory herb Asarum canadense. To estimate long-term rates of spread by seed, we calibrated seed-dispersal diffusion models with life history data and with data on seed carries by ants. We supplemented our field observations and modeling results for A. canadense with a literature survey on the dispersal capabilities of other plant species. Ants transported A. canadense seeds up to 35 m, the largest distance ants are known to move the seeds of any woodland herb. Empirically calibrated diffusion models indicated that over the last 16 000 yr A. canadense should only have traveled 10-11 km from its glacial refugia. In actuality, A. canadense moved hundreds of kilometers during this time. Models that examined the tail of A. canadense's seed-dispersal curve indicated that occasional dispersal events had to have a high frequency (0.001 on a per seed basis) and a large magnitude (dispersal distance >1 km) for A. canadense to have traveled over 200 km in 16 000 yr. The literature survey showed that most woodland herbs and many other forest, desert, coastal, and open-habitat plant species have limited seed-dispersal capabilities, similar to those in A. canadense. We conclude that woodland herbs, as well as many other plants, disperse so slowly that there is no documented mechanism by which most of these species could have reached their present geographical range since the last glacial maximum. This suggests that occasional events leading to long-distance dispersal dominate the Holocene colonization of northern temperate forest by woodland herbs, and this, in turn, has implications for issues ranging from the importance of genetic analyses to the structure of metapopulation models.
10.2307/2937253|We analyze patterns of morphological variation in a guild of 12 species of grassland/shrubsteppe birds in relation to various theories expressing ecomorphological correlations. Variability in morphology over the six geographic locations sampled was moderate for most species, but several morphological traits exhibited significant variation between years at given locations. Sexual variation (dimorphism) was significant for most traits in most species; it was most apparent in polygynously mating forms, but occurred as well in several monogamous species. Dimorphism was generally greater for traits related in a general way to body size than for bill size traits, suggesting a stronger role for sexual selection than for intersexual trophic niche differentiation in driving dimorphism in these species. In nonsexual dimensions of variation, variability in bill features and body measurements tended to be similar. Migratory species did not differ from resident species in the degree of morphological variability. There was heterogeneity as well in the patterns of covariation among morphological traits. Principal component analysis indicated different clusterings or @'suites@' of morphological traits in component space for the different species, although in several the first principal component appeared to represent a general @'body size@' set. In these species there was thus substantial morphological variation that occurred in no readily discernible patterns in space or time, suggesting that simple characterizations of the morphology of these species from museum specimens or from literature values are at best only general approximations, and may be inappropriate for testing ecomorphological theories at the level of local populations and communities. An analysis of relations between morphology and diet revealed few clear associations in the directions predicted by theory within species populations. Bill size and prey size in individual birds were generally uncorrelated, and the few correlations between prey size and suites of covarying morphological traits were quite weak. Variability in bill dimensions was unrelated to dietary diversity or variety; populations in which bill sizes were more variable did not consume more variable-sized prey than less variable populations of a species. Similarly, there was no relationship between sexual dimorphism and diet variety. Between species, on the other hand, there were significant relationships between body length or bill length and prey size. Principal component analysis revealed that over the entire assemblage of species considered, bigger species had bigger bills and larger territories; they tended to eat bigger things that were more variable in size, and they were primarily carnivorous. The sizes of birds in this assemblage were distributed in a discontinuous fashion, however, with a gap in the body size spectrum between 30-40 g species and those weighing over 100 g. Removal of the large species from the morphology-diet analysis destroyed the clear patterns. The agreements with theoretical predictions thus hold only at a general level, but do not appear when the several small (10-40 g) species are considered as a group. Examination of the frequency distributions of prey sizes taken by coexisting guild members at several locations revealed a wide array of patterns, ranging from orderly size-related separations or rankings through complete overlap in prey size distributions to inversions, in which small-sized species consumed larger prey than large-sized species. It is apparent that any predictions of dietary characteristics from morphology are tenuous indeed. Body size was significantly related to territory size over the entire spectrum of bird species, but there was substantial variation in territory sizes within any given species, and the relationship did not obtain within the set of small species. Variations in abundance of populations were not associated with changes in the variation of morphological traits; more abundant populations were not necessarily more variable. Overall, our analysis casts doubt on the applicability of much current ecomorphological theory to the bird guilds we studied. We believe that close associations between morphology and ecology are obscured by the substantial variability in both. This variability may reflect the fluctuating selection pressures characteristic of arid and semiarid environments, where environmental stresses (and the attendant tight restriction of population variation in morphology and ecology) are sporadic in their occurrence.
27646093|One of the most important ways by which northern forests will respond to anticipated climate change is through variations in seed maturation. In this study, the relationship between growing degree-days (DD) >5C and seed maturity was evaluated at three spatial scales. At the continental scale, the development of female gametophytes and embryos was evaluated as a function of the heat sums obtained from 11 sites distributed across the Canadian range of black spruce. At the regional scale, cone size and the percentage of germinated seeds formed in 1998, 1999, and 2000 were analyzed from seven sites situated along a latitudinal gradient in northern Quebec. At the local scale, cones were collected along perilacustral and insular transects according to their exposure to large water bodies, and from 10 islands located within a 2835-km2 hydroelectric reservoir. Our results confirm the 800940 DD thermal sum threshold necessary for the complete maturation of black spruce embryos at several populations distributed across the total range of the species. Along the regional south-to-north climatic gradient, the percentage of germination can be predicted by a sigmoid function of a thermal sum (y = 2.8 + 25.1/[1 + e(x-896.6)/84.6]; r2 = 0.85, P < 0.0001) that attains a plateau at around 800940 DD. Once the 800940 DD threshold is attained, variations in the percentage of seed germination are mainly associated with inter-tree differences and local site factors (thickness of organic matter, tree density, tree height, tree age, and fetch). In the springtime, cold enclaves are created by the presence of the hydroelectric reservoir. The seed germination percentages in these enclaves varied from 0.6%  0.7% to 14.9%  19.1% (mean  SD) according to the site (compared to 22.7%  15.1% for a site not exposed to the reservoir), which was equivalent to the germination percentages for sites at latitudes 13 farther north. These data suggest that the potential for black spruce regeneration increases strongly beyond the 800 DD isotherm, which evokes the possibility that subarctic open forests may become more dense under the current anticipated climate changes.
10.2307/2937283|The pollen and plant-macrofossil records from four small lakes in the subalpine and alpine zone of the White Mountains, New Hampshire, give a 13 000-yr paleoenvironmental history. The White Mountains were deglaciated before 13 000 yr BP. Downwasting of the continental ice sheet was rapid. The summits projected above the ice as nunataks for only a brief period of time. Residual ice may have existed in Franconia Notch until 11 000 yr BP. From 13 000 to 11 750 yr BP a barren periglacial desert covered the highest altitudes in the White Mountains. Tundra vegetation occupied the lower slopes and valleys. The mean annual temperature was roughly 5@?-10@?C colder than today. Sparse tundra vegetation surrounded all four high-elevation sites from 11 750 to 10 300 yr ago and several taxa, particularly Artemisia and Caryophyllaceae, indicate disturbance. The summits were subjected to intense periglacial activity. The mean annual temperature was 4-6@? lower than present. By 10 300 yr BP shrubs such as willow, juniper, and dwarf birch had invaded the tundra at Lake of the Clouds. Spruce woodland dominated the lower slopes and valleys. At 10 300 yr BP spruce populations arrived at high-elevation sites. Macrofossils of fir, birch, and shrubs also occur in sediments of this age. The temperature increased to or exceeded modern levels. Tree species did not reach the Franconia Notch sites until 9750 yr BP. At these sites the establishment of subalpine forests spanned a much shorter time period. Forest with poplar, spruce, and birch replaced the spruce woodlands of low elevations. Subalpine fir forests became well established by 9000 yr BP. Evidence from the alpine site shows that the fir trees were more abundant and treeline higher than today from 10 300 to 5000 yr BP. After 5000 yr BP, the pollen percentages of alpine indicators increased and the numbers of fir macrofossils dropped. Of the three sites in subalpine fir firest, only the lowest shows any evidence of a warmer interval in the early Holocene. Treeline is apparently a poor temperature indicator because wind and moisture are the major factors determining its position. Taxa of the Northern Hardwood Forest (e.g., white pine, hemlock, yellow birch, sugar maple, and beech) arrived at lower elevations by 6500 yr BP, but the zones of modern vegetation became established only after 2000 yr BP when spruce populations expanded at low elevations between 750 and 1200 m.
27646159|Bee pollinators are currently recorded with many different sampling methods. However, the relative performances of these methods have not been systematically evaluated and compared. In response to the strong need to record ongoing shifts in pollinator diversity and abundance, global and regional pollinator initiatives must adopt standardized sampling protocols when developing large-scale and long-term monitoring schemes. We systematically evaluated the performance of six sampling methods (observation plots, pan traps, standardized and variable transect walks, trap nests with reed internodes or paper tubes) that are commonly used across a wide range of geographical regions in Europe and in two habitat types (agricultural and seminatural). We focused on bees since they represent the most important pollinator group worldwide. Several characteristics of the methods were considered in order to evaluate their performance in assessing bee diversity: sample coverage, observed species richness, species richness estimators, collector biases (identified by subunit-based rarefaction curves), species composition of the samples, and the indication of overall bee species richness (estimated from combined total samples). The most efficient method in all geographical regions, in both the agricultural and seminatural habitats, was the pan trap method. It had the highest sample coverage, collected the highest number of species, showed negligible collector bias, detected similar species as the transect methods, and was the best indicator of overall bee species richness. The transect methods were also relatively efficient, but they had a significant collector bias. The observation plots showed poor performance. As trap nests are restricted to cavity-nesting bee species, they had a naturally low sample coverage. However, both trap nest types detected additional species that were not recorded by any of the other methods. For large-scale and long-term monitoring schemes with surveyors with different experience levels, we recommend pan traps as the most efficient, unbiased, and cost-effective method for sampling bee diversity. Trap nests with reed internodes could be used as a complementary sampling method to maximize the numbers of collected species. Transect walks are the principal method for detailed studies focusing on plantpollinator associations. Moreover, they can be used in monitoring schemes after training the surveyors to standardize their collection skills.
10.2307/2937080|In 1982, experimental nitrogen gradients were established on both existing and disturbed (disked) vegetation in three fields (abandoned 14, 25, and 48 yr) and on existing vegetation in native oak savannah. Each of these seven gradients contained five or six replicates of each of nine treatments that differed in the annual rate of nitrogen addition. In none of the fields did plant biomass, height, species richness, or light penetration respond to addition of P, K, Ca, Mg, S, and trace metals. In contrast, plant biomass and height increased significantly, and light penetration and species richness decreased significantly, with added nitrogen along all seven gradients. On average, >60% of the species had been displaced from high-nitrogen treatments by 1985. Nitrogen addition led to a period of transient dominance by certain species. Species that reached peak relative abundance in high-nitrogen treatments in 1982 tended to be rare in all but the low-nitrogen treatments by 1985. In contrast, the relative abundances of most species that dominated the high-nitrogen treatments in 1985 did not increase along the nitrogen gradients in 1982. The relative or absolute abundances of most common species changed significantly along the experimental gradients in at least 1 yr. By 1985, many common species were differentiated in their distributions along the seven gradients. In general, early successional annuals and short-lived perennials and plants of short stature at maturity reached their peak abundance in low-nitrogen plots, whereas plots, receiving high rates of nitrogen addition were dominated by long-lived herbaceous and woody species that are taller at maturity. A survey of 22 old fields at Cedar Creek, Minnesota, showed that total and available soil nitrogen increased during succession and that major species had individualistic, fairly Gaussian distributions along this temporal nitrogen gradient. The distributions along the experimental gradients of most of the common species were consistent with the pattern observed in the old-field survey, demonstrating that nitrogen influences the pattern of secondary succession at Cedar Creek. The major exception was Agropyron repens, and early successional grass that dominated high-nitrogen treatments on six of the seven gradients. Comparisons of species responses on the disturbed plots with those on plots of existing (undisturbed) vegetation showed that, by 1985, most species responded similarly to the nitrogen gradients despite great differences in their initial abundances. For instance, Agropyron repens, an initial dominant of Field A but rare in Fields B and C, was dominant in the high-nitrogen treatments in both the disturbed and undisturbed plots of these three fields. It invaded into and rapidly increased in abundance in numerous high-nitrogen plots from which it was initially absent. Schizachyrium scoparium declined along the nitrogen gradients both in undisked plots in which it was initially dominant and in disked plots in which it was initially rare. Such similarities suggest that the outcome of interspecific interactions among old-field plants is highly dependent on nitrogen supply rates, but fairly independent of initial plant abundances.
43188346|Long-term environmental changes will likely alter the strengths of interactions between species and consequently their population dynamics, leading to changes in the stability of ecological systems. While an increasing number of empirical studies have shown that environmental changes can alter the strengths of species interactions, these studies are typically short (<12 generations) and therefore give only partial information about longer term population dynamics. To focus on longer term dynamics, we investigated population cycles of pea aphids and their most common parasitoid, Aphidius ervi, in Wisconsin, USA. Data collected over three years in alfalfa fields showed an apparent host-parasitoid population cycle. Furthermore, higher pea aphid population growth rates and increased parasitism were correlated with higher naturally occurring temperatures. While these effects were observed with seasonal fluctuations in temperature, they beg the question of how longterm changes in mean annual temperature might change aphid-parasitoid population cycles, a question which we further pursued with laboratory experiments. To quantify temperaturedependent demographic parameters, we used short-term (< 1 generation) experiments conducted at 20C and 27C. The higher temperature increased aphid and parasitoid development rates, adult aphid life span and fecundity, and parasitoid attack rates. We then conducted multi-generation population-level laboratory experiments to reveal the effects of temperature (20C vs. 27C) on population dynamics. We fit the resulting time series data using a nonlinear age-structured state-space model to estimate population-level processes that could not be estimated in short-term laboratory experiments. Using the model, we parsed out the demographic rates that had the largest impacts on aphid-parasitoid population cycles. This analysis showed that there were frequent contrasts in the effects of temperature operating through different demographic rates. For example, the temperature-dependent increase in aphid development rate decreased cycle amplitude, while the increase in parasitoid attack rate increased cycle amplitude. There were also striking interactions among demographic rates. For example, the temperature-dependent increase in aphid development rate could either increase or decrease the cycle period depending on the values of other demographic rates. Although these complexities make predictions difficult, overall they suggest that increasing long-term mean temperature will decrease the period, increase the amplitude, and tend to destabilize pea aphid-A. ervi dynamics.
27646167|Biometricians have made great strides in the generation of reliable estimates of demographic rates and their uncertainties from imperfect field data, but these estimates are rarely used to produce detailed predictions of the dynamics or future viability of at-risk populations. Conversely, population viability analysis (PVA) modelers have increased the sophistication and complexity of their approaches, but most do not adequately address parameter and model uncertainties in viability assessments or include important ecological drivers. Merging the advances in these two fields could enable more defensible predictions of extinction risk and better evaluations of management options, but only if clear and interpretable PVA results can be distilled from these complex analyses and outputs. Here, we provide guidance on how to successfully conduct such a combined analysis, using the example of the endangered island fox (Urocyon littoralis), endemic to the Channel Islands of California, USA. This more rigorous demographic PVA was built by forming a close marriage between the statistical models used to estimate parameters from raw data and the details of the subsequent PVA simulation models. In particular, the use of markrecapture analyses and other likelihood and information-theoretic methods allowed us to carefully incorporate parameter and model uncertainty, the effects of ecological drivers, density dependence, and other complexities into our PVA. Island fox populations show effects of density dependence, predation, and El Nio events, as well as substantial unexplained temporal variation in survival rates. Accounting not only for these sources of variability, but also for uncertainty in the models and parameters used to estimate their strengths, proved important in assessing fox viability with different starting population sizes and predation levels. While incorporating ecological drivers into PVA assessments can help to predict realistic dynamics, we also show that unexplained process variance has important effects even in our extremely well-studied system, and therefore must not be ignored in PVAs. Overall, the treatment of causal factors and uncertainties in parameter values and model structures need not result in unwieldy models or highly complex predictions, and we emphasize that future PVAs can and should include these effects when suitable data are available to support their analysis.
10.2307/3100042|Models are useful when they are compared with data. Whether this comparison should be qualitative or quantitative depends on circumstances, but in many cases some statistical comparison of model and data is useful and enhances objectivity. Unfortunately, ecological dynamic models tend to contain assumptions and simplifications that enhance tractability, promote insight, but spoil model fit, and this can cause difficulties when adopting a statistical approach. Furthermore, the arcane numerical analysis required to fit dynamic models reliably presents an impediment to objective model testing by fitting. This paper presents methods for formulating and fitting partially specified models, which aim to achieve a measure of generality by avoiding some of the irrelevant incidental assumptions that are inevitable in more traditional approaches. This is done by allowing delay differential equation models, difference equation models, and differential equation models to be constructed with part of their structure represented by unknown functions, while part of the structure may contain conventional model elements that contain only unknown parameters. An integrated practical methodology for using such models is presented along with several examples, which include use of models formulated using delay differential equations, discrete difference equations/matrix models, ordinary differential equations, and partial differential equations. The methods also allow better estimation from ecological data by model fitting, since models can be formulated to include fewer unjustified assumptions than would usually be the case if more traditional models were used, while still including as much structure as the modeler believes can be justified by biological knowledge: model structure improves precision, while fewer extraneous assumptions reduce unquantifiable bias.
10.2307/1942405|Succession of vascular plant communities was studied on fields in central New York abandoned for the previous 4 to 36 yr. Changes within fields as they aged were consistent with the overall pattern of change between fields. Over the period covered, Phleum pratense was replaced successively as the major species by Solidago altissima, Picris hieracioides, and Cornus racemosa. Succession was accompanied by increased biological diversity, reduced dominance, decreased energy flow per unit biomass, and increased stability to a pulse perturbation of inorganic nutrients. Although soil phosphorus is an important factor influencing community function on the fields studied, the fertilization experiment indicated a fundamental reorganization of community relationships during succession which reduces community responsiveness to fluctuations in soil nutrients. Increased diversity resulted from the partitioning of constant density and net productivity among increasing numbers of species. Accompanying the increase in diversity was decreasing seasonal synchrony of resource demands among the constituent species pool. Although successional stages could be arbitrarily recognized by the taxonomic identification and growth forms of dominant species, there was a gradual and continuous change in structural and functional properties of the plant community, and no objectively definable stages could be delimited. These studies indicate that a failure to determine productivities of individual species may seriously distort the evaluation of community properties.
27646145|Animal habitat selection is a central focus of ecology and conservation biology. Understanding habitat associations in migratory animals is particularly complicated because individuals have variable habitat requirements during the annual cycle, across their geographic range, along migratory routes, and at multiple spatial scales. We studied habitat associations of 16 fall NearcticNeotropical migratory land birds at two spatial scales at a stopover site along the northern Yucatan coast to examine scale-dependent habitat use, identify proximate cues shaping birds' distributions, and evaluate similarities in habitat use between our tropical stopover site and temperate sites. We addressed scale-dependent habitat associations in two ways, by (1) quantifying species' distributions among and within broad vegetation types and (2) comparing migrants' associations with architectural gradients between the two spatial scales. We also evaluated the relative importance of vegetation architecture and floristics in explaining migrants' distributions within broad coastal vegetation types. Bird species were nonrandomly distributed among broad- and fine-scale vegetation types, and patterns of habitat use varied between the two scales. Moreover, birds had different preferences for vegetation architecture at the two scales, which may reflect trade-offs between competing demands and/or reduced variation in vegetation at the small scale in our study. These findings illustrate the manner in which spatial scale and range of vegetation variation influence perceptions of animalhabitat associations. Within broad coastal vegetation types birds refined their distributions in relation to architectural and floristic attributes, which provided them with redundant and/or complementary information regarding the distribution of suitable habitat. We suggest that the relative importance of architecture and floristics is likely scale-dependent. Habitat use at our site was similar to that observed at temperate stopover sites for almost all species, indicating that habitat affinities are maintained along the migratory route for these eastern populations despite latitudinal changes in environmental factors. We highlight examples of similar patterns observed in other migratory and nonmigratory animals to illustrate the generality of these patterns beyond en route land birds and our tropical site. We also indicate where we expect to see differences and outline areas of research that merit greater attention in order to advance our understanding of animal habitat selection.
10.2307/2937073|Experimental manipulations of grazing intensity were used to examine the role of herbivorous fishes in the families Acanthuridae (surgeonfishes) and Scaridae (parrotfishes) in determining distributions and abundances of benthic species within and among shallow tropical reef habitats. A back reef habitat along the Belizean barrier reef was characterized by a diverse benthic assemblage of algal turfs, coralline algae, and the coral Porites astreoides, but by extremely low macroalgal abundance. In contrast, several nearby shallow habitats were dominated by dense stands of several macroalgal species. Experimental reduction of herbivorous fish grazing in the back reef (achieved by constructing exclosures) rapidly and dramatically altered existing patterns of benthic species composition and species abundances. After 10 wk of reduced herbivory, total macroalgal abundance increased significantly in herbivore exclusion areas relative to unmanipulated controls, and was correlated with decreased percent cover of available space, several algal turf species, crustose coralline algae, and Porites. Some macroalgal species were able to directly overgrow and kill portions of Porites colonies within herbivore exclusion treatments. Successful recruitment and growth of several algal species under experimentally reduced herbivory indicated that macroalgal species distributions may be limited by herbivory rather than by lack of spore availability or unsuitable physical conditions. Algal turfs characteristic of many reef habitats appear to represent herbivore-tolerant assemblages, persisting under high grazing intensity but responding rapidly to reduced herbivory with increased abundances, morphological changes, and altered reproductive status. These results suggest that herbivorous fish grazing profoundly influences benthic species distributions and abundances within some tropical reef habitats. Spatial variation in herbivory appears to be of fundamental importance in determining regional patterns of benthic community structure on tropical reefs. The spatial mosaic of benthic community composition among shallow reef habitats was associated with patterns of grazing intensity by herbivorous fishes. Several reef habitats supporting dense macroalgal stands represented spatial refuges from herbivory, with low herbivorous fish densities and reduced grazing intensities. Transplant experiments revealed that algal species characteristic of these low-herbivory habitats were highly susceptible to grazing by herbivorous fishes. Spatial heterogeneity in grazing intensity may contribute to high regional diversity among tropical reef habitats by maintaining different benthic species assemblages under fundamentally distinct selective regimes.
27646041|A vegetation chronosequence spanning over 300 years was established in unconstrained reaches of the lower Queets River in Olympic National Park, Washington, USA, for an examination of riparian successional patterns. The Queets is an unconstrained, dynamic, mountain river located within a temperate rain forest environment. Ongoing channel movements create intricate patterns in the physical structure of the valley. Twenty-one plots containing a total of 4359 trees were mapped and measured for structural and crown characteristics. Snags, logs, and understory vegetation were also quantified. Recent alluvial deposits are colonized primarily by early-successional trees Salix sitchensis and Alnus rubra. Conifer seedlings, primarily Picea sitchensis, generally invade after the initial cohort of hardwood trees begins senescence: 2030 years for Salix and 4060 years for Alnus. Through accumulation of sediments from floods and channel downcutting, surfaces become perched above the reach of annual floods after 4080 years and are then slowly colonized by late successional tree species Acer circinaturm, Acer macrophyllum, and Tsuga heterophylla. Diverse, old-growth forests ultimately develop after 200250 years, containing some of the largest known trees in the Pacific Northwest. However, canopy and stem densities remain lower than comparative Pseudotsuga menziesii forests from the nearby Cascade Mountains. Vast individual crowns can develop, with occasional Picea up to 25 m wide and 70 m deep. Individual stands may accumulate >200 000 m3/ha of canopy volumeamong the highest recorded on earth. Mixed among the generalized successional sequence are variations created by uncommon channel movements. Avulsions followed by channel incision form cobblefields in abandoned channels or other surfaces which are isolated from subsequent inundation and sediment deposition. These cobblefields embark on a different successional trajectory, which often includes conifer seedlings present in the initial cohort. Ultimately, whatever the initial trajectory, soils become productive due to soil conditioning by Alnus and the decomposition of other plant material. These biophysical complexities, interconnected patterns, and system-scale resilience are summarized in a multiple-pathway successional model that may be applicable to floodplain riparian forests throughout much of the Pacific coastal ecoregion.
41739372|In a recent paper, J. M. McNamara and S. R. Dall identified novel relationships between (1) the abundance of a species in different environments, (2) the temporal properties of environmental change, and (3) selection for or against dispersal. Here, the mathematics underlying these relationships in their two-environment model are investigated for arbitrary numbers of environments. A population statistic, the fitness-abundance covariance, is introduced, which quantifies the property they describe. It is the covariance between growth rates and the excess abundance of the population over what it would be without heterogeneous growth rates. Its value depends on the phase in the life cycle when the population is censused, and the pre-dispersal and post-dispersal values differ as an example of Fisher's Fundamental Theorem. The fitness-abundance covariance is shown to involve the Reduction Principle from the population genetics literature on the evolution of genetic systems and migration, which is reviewed. Conditions that produce selection for increased unconditional dispersal are new instances of the Principle of Partial Control proposed to explain departures from reduction in the evolution of modifier genes. According to this principle, variation that only partially controls the processes that transform the transmitted information of organisms may be selected to increase the rates of these processes. The model's behavior is shown to depend on the harmonic mean of the durations of the environments, causal connection between successive environments, and the eigenvalues of the environmental change matrix. Analysis of the adaptive landscape in the model shows that the evolution of conditional dispersal is very sensitive to the spectrum of phenotypic variation produced by the population, and suggests that empirical study of a particular species will require an evaluation of its variational properties.
10.2307/1942608|Details of the vertical distribution of oceanic phytoplankton species are investigated by means of four stations occupied during June 1977 and August 1978 near 28@?N, 155@?W. Two distinct, recurring floral associations, separated by a region of rapid transition near or below 100 m, are identified. The associations are apparently related to the @'nutrient limited@' and @'light limited@' physiological regimes described previously. Inverse abundance relationships of congeners within the deeper association are compatible with the hypothesis of disequilibrium competitive interactions and community regulation. Among species of the shallow association congeners are positively associated and predation is postulated to be the important regulating mechanism.
10.2307/3100085|We evaluate a method for fitting models to time series of population abundances that incorporates both process noise and observation error in a likelihood framework. The method follows the probability logic of the Kalman filter, but whereas the Kalman filter applies to linear, Gaussian systems, we implement the full probability calculations numerically so that any nonlinear, non-Gaussian model can be used. We refer to the method as the "numerically integrated state-space (NISS) method" and compare it to two common methods used to analyze nonlinear time series in ecology: least squares with only process noise (LSPN) and least squares with only observation error (LSOE). We compare all three methods by fitting Beverton-Holt and Ricker models to many replicate model-generated time series of length 20 with several parameter choices. For the Ricker model we chose parameters for which the deterministic part of the model produces a stable equilibrium, a two-cycle, or a four-cycle. For each set of parameters we used three process-noise and observation-error scenarios: large standard deviation (0.2) for both, and large for one but small (0.05) for the other. The NISS method had lower estimator bias and variance than the other methods in nearly all cases. The only exceptions were for the Ricker model with stable-equilibrium parameters, in which case the LSPN and LSOE methods has lower bias when noise variances most closely met their assumptions. For the Beverton-Holt model, the NISS method was much less biased and more precise than the other methods. We also evaluated the utility of each method for model selection by fitting simulated data to both models and using information criteria for selection. The NISS and LSOE methods showed a strong bias toward selecting the Ricker over the Beverton-Holt, even when data were generated with the Beverton-Holt. It remains unclear whether the LSPN method is generally superior for model selection or has fortuitously better biases in this particular case. These results suggest that information criteria are best used with caution for nonlinear population models with short time series. Finally we evaluated the convergence of likelihood ratios to theoretical asymptotic distributions. Agreement with asymptotic distributions was very good for stable-point Ricker parameters, less accurate for two-cycle and four-cycle Ricker parameters, and least accurate for the Beverton-Holt model. The numerically integrated state-space method has a number of advantages over least squares methods and offers a useful tool for connecting models and data and ecology.
10.2307/1942248|Temperature and moisture stress of conifer saplings and needle nitrogen content of conifer saplings were measured at reference stands representing 16 forest communities in the central portion of the western Cascades province of Oregon. Most species occur over a wide range of temperature and moisture stress; many occupy a wider range of environments in the western Cascades than they do in the eastern Siskiyou Mountains of southwest Oregon. Differences between vegetation zones are reflected in a temperature index; within zones, communities are distinguished by moisture stress and, to a lesser extent, by temperature. In two cases vegetation differences appear to be related to low needle nitrogen contents. Use of complex gradients for vegetation ordination suggests certain environmental differences between communities which are contrary to the differences measured; therefore, we prefer the measured gradients over the complex gradients defined. Species diversity (the total number of vascular species) increases and dominance (Simpson's index) decreases away from moderate environmental conditions to warmer-drier and colder communities. Diversities of different strata are unrelated. Dominance is concentrated in fewer strata of the vegetation on the colder sites. However, discontinuities in the pattern of diversity with environment occur which are not related to major differences in our measured environmental indexes. Evergreenness of shrubs is highest in stands with the lowest foliar nitrogen levels.
10.2307/3100023|Before the development of mass-vaccination campaigns, measles exhibited persistent fluctuations (endemic dynamics) in large British cities, and recurrent outbreaks (episodic dynamics) in smaller communities. The critical community size separating the two regimes was ~300 000-500 000. We develop a model, the TSIR (Time-series Susceptible-Infected-Recovered) model, that can capture both endemic cycles and episodic outbreaks in measles. The model includes the stochasticity inherent in the disease transmission (giving rise to a negative binomial conditional distribution) and random immigration. It is thus a doubly stochastic model for disease dynamics. It further includes seasonality in the transmission rates. All parameters of the model are estimated on the basis of time series data on reported cases and reconstructed susceptible numbers from a set of cities in England and Wales in the prevaccination era (1944-1966). The 60 cities analyzed span a size range from London (3.3 10
4539050| In an investigation of the factors leading to geographic structuring among Adlie Penguin (Pygoscelis adeliae) populations, we studied the size and overlap of colony-specific foraging areas within an isolated cluster of colonies. The study area, in the southwestern Ross Sea, included one large and three smaller colonies, ranging in size from 3900 to 135 000 nesting pairs, clustered on Ross and Beaufort Islands. We used triangulation of radio signals from transmitters attached to breeding penguins to determine foraging locations and to define colony-specific foraging areas during the chick-provisioning period of four breeding seasons, 1997-2000. Colony populations (nesting pairs) were determined using aerial photography just after egg-laying; reproductive success was estimated by comparing ground counts of chicks fledged to the number of breeding pairs apparent in aerial photos. Foraging-trip duration, meal size, and adult body mass were estimated using RFID (radio frequency identification) tags and an automated reader and weighbridge. Chick growth was assessed by weekly weighing. We related the following variables to colony size: foraging distance, area, and duration; reproductive success; chick meal size and growth rate; and seasonal variation in adult body mass. We found that penguins foraged closest to their respective colonies, particularly at the smaller colonies. However, as the season progressed, foraging distance, duration, and area increased noticeably, especially at the largest colony. The foraging areas of the smaller colonies overlapped broadly, but very little foraging area overlap existed between the large colony and the smaller colonies, even though the foraging area of the large colony was well within range of the smaller colonies. Instead, the foraging areas of the smaller colonies shifted as that of the large colony grew. Colony size was not related to chick meal size, chick growth, or parental body mass. This differed from the year previous to the study, when foraging trips of the large colony were very long, parents lost mass, and chick meals were smaller. In light of existing data on prey abundance in neritic waters in Antarctica suggesting that krill are relatively evenly distributed and in high abundance in the Southern Ross Sea, we conclude that penguins depleted or changed the availability of their prey, that the degree of alteration was a function of colony size, and that the large colony affected the location (and perhaps ultimately the size) of foraging areas for the smaller colonies. It appears, therefore, that foraging dynamics play a role in the geographic structuring of colonies in this species. 
10.2307/1942287|Field observations of discriminatory feeding behavior of squirrels indicate that in the process of maximizing their own feeding efficiency squirrels act as selective agents on several characteristics of plant reproduction. Calorimetric measurements of the energy content of plant reproductive organs confirm the evolutionary effects of discriminatory feeding by squirrels. The reproductive characteristics of conifers which are affected include several details of cone anatomy, the number of seeds per cone, the time at which cones shed their seeds, the thickness of seed coats, and annual fluctuations in the size of cone crops. A prolonged evolutionary interaction between rodent-like, arboreal mammals and the reproductive organs of the modern genera in the family Pinaceae is consistent with the fossil record. A general analysis of selective pressure influencing terrestrial plant reproduction indicates that seed eaters could have a marked influence on the evolution of plant reproduction. Among the interrelated selective pressures that influence the coevolution of conifers and squirrels, the physical environment is the independent variable. The effect of one predator feeding on two species of prey is the divergent evolution of defense mechanisms in the two prey species. However, one species of predator can cause convergent evolution in the pattern of variation in the production of prey, which may also be considered a defense mechanism.
23208475|The complexity of mathematical models of ecological dynamics varies greatly, and it is often difficult to judge what would be the optimal level of complexity in a particular case. Here we compare the parameter estimates, model fits, and predictive abilities of two models of metapopulation dynamics: a detailed individual-based model (IBM) and a population-based stochastic patch occupancy model (SPOM) derived from the IBM. The two models were fitted to a 17-year time series of data for the Glanville fritillary butterfly (Melitaea cinxia) inhabiting a network of 72 small meadows. The data consisted of biannual counts of larval groups (IBM) and the annual presence or absence of local populations (SPOM). The models were fitted using a Bayesian state-space approach with a hierarchical random effect structure to account for observational, demographic, and environmental stochasticities. The detection probability of larval groups (IBM) and the probability of false zeros of local populations (SPOM) in the observation models were simultaneously estimated from the time-series data and independent control data. Prior distributions for dispersal parameters were obtained from a separate analysis of markrecapture data. Both models fitted the data about equally, but the results were more precise for the IBM than for the SPOM. The two models yielded similar estimates for a random effect parameter describing habitat quality in each patch, which were correlated with independent empirical measures of habitat quality. The modeling results showed that variation in habitat quality influenced patch occupancy more through the effects on movement behavior at patch edges than on carrying capacity, whereas the latter influenced the mean population size in occupied patches. The IBM and the SPOM explained 63% and 45%, respectively, of the observed variation in the fraction of occupied habitat area among 75 independent patch networks not used in parameter estimation. We conclude that, while carefully constructed, detailed models can have better predictive ability than simple models, this advantage comes with the cost of greatly increased data requirements and computational challenges. Our results illustrate how complex models can be helpful in facilitating the construction of effective simpler models.
3100017|We used a comparative mensurative landscape-level experiment to quantify the relative importance of mature forest area and fragmentation and differences among watersheds in influencing avian community diversity in the Oregon Coast Range, USA. Our study design included three large hydrological basins, two levels of fragmentation, and six levels of mature forest area. We recorded 82 species of birds in a total of 1046 plots in 30 landscapes. Our four response variables were species richness, species density, species evenness, and total bird density. We used a combination of factorial ANOVA and partial canonical variates analysis to quantify the relative importance of differences in mature forest area, fragmentation, and basin in influencing each response variable and community diversity overall. Bird community diversity was influenced by both the extent and fragmentation of mature forest at the landscape level. Species richness and density responded more strongly to mature forest area than to fragmentation and were significantly lower in landscapes that were completely dominated by mature forest than in landscapes with a mixture of seral stages. This reflected a selective loss of a number of early-seral species when mature forest completely blanketed the landscape. Species evenness was more strongly related to fragmentation than to area of mature forest at the landscape level. In fragmented landscapes, the most dominant species decreased in abundance, whereas moderately abundant species increased in relative abundance. This resulted in bird communities that were more even in fragmented landscapes. Unlike several other studies, we did not find that the relative strength of fragmentation effects increased as habitat area decreased. Total bird density, in contrast, was not related to either mature forest area or fragmentation, but it varied significantly among basins. In summary, although both area and fragmentation of mature forest at the landscape level were strongly related to bird community diversity, they had qualitatively different effects. These results must be interpreted within the scope of this study, which took place in a forest-dominated landscape. Our results provide an interesting view of the factors that are related to bird diversity in a spatially complex seral mosaic but may not reflect the patterns that would exist in a high-contrast forest-nonforest landscape.
27646059|Species that build the physical structure of ecosystems often reproduce clonally, both in terrestrial (e.g., grasses, trees) and marine (e.g., corals, seagrasses) environments. The degree of clonality may vary over a species' range in accordance with the relative success of sexual and asexual recruitment. High genotypic (clonal) diversity of structural species may promote the species diversity and resilience of ecosystems in the face of environmental extremes. Conversely, low genotypic diversity may indicate an asexual strategy to maintain resources and genetic variation during population decline. Here, we use microsatellite markers to assess geographic variation in clonality in the coral Acropora palmata sampled from 26 reefs in eight regions spanning its tropical western Atlantic range (n = 751). Caribbean-wide, the ratio (SD) of genets (Ng) to sampled ramets (N) was 0.51  0.28. Within reefs (3070 m) and among reefs (10100 km) within regions, clonal structure varied from being predominantly asexual (Ng/N approaching 0) to purely sexual (Ng/N = 1). However, two genetically isolated regions (western and eastern Caribbean) differed in clonal structure: genotypically depauperate populations (Ng/N = 0.43  0.31) with lower densities (0.13  0.08 colonies/m2) characterized the western region, while denser (0.30  0.21 colonies/m2), genotypically rich stands (Ng/N = 0.64  0.17) typified the eastern Caribbean. Genotypic richness (standardized to sample size; Ng/N) and genotypic diversity (Go/Ge) were negatively related to colony density within each province (r2 = 0.490.66, P < 0.001), indicating that dense stands have higher rates of asexual recruitment than less dense populations. Asexual recruitment was not correlated with large-scale disturbance history or abundance of large colonies (potential fragment sources) but was negatively correlated with shelf area (r2 = 0.57, P < 0.01). We argue that sexual recruitment is more prevalent in the eastern range of A. palmata than the west, and that these geographic differences in the contribution of reproductive modes to population structure may be related to habitat characteristics. The two populations of the threatened A. palmata differ fundamentally in reproductive character and may respond differently to environmental change.
27646030|Several weaknesses in our understanding of long-lived animal populations have persisted, mainly due to a prevalence of studies of a single local population at the expense of multisite studies. We performed a multisite capturemarkresight analysis using 2050 Atlantic Puffins (Fratercula arctica) banded as chicks on four islands (colonies) over 24 years in the Gulf of Maine, USA and Canada. Within program MARK, encounter, apparent survival, pre-breeding movement (PBM; annual movements between colonies prior to breeding), and natal dispersal (ND) probabilities were modeled as functions of age, colony, and several covariates. Information-theoretic model selection criteria and estimated model effect sizes were used to identify important effects and select models to estimate parameters. Encounter probabilities were extremely variable (0.100.95) and declined annually starting six years after bands were applied, due to changes in resighting effort, and band wear, respectively. Colony-dependent survival probabilities increased to a peak at age six years; arithmetic means from all colonies were: 0.70 for age 03, 0.78 for age 4, 0.81 for age 5, and 0.84 for age 68 years. Low adult survival (age 5 years) may reflect inclusion of breeding and nonbreeding adults in our sample or a bias due to band loss and illegibility. Consistent with a density-dependent prediction, the effect of colony size on survival was negative and acquired strong AICc support. However, this effect was inconsistent with strata effects in competing top models; the latter suggest that survival was lowest on the smallest island. The effects of origin and destination colony and origin colony size in PBM and ND probabilities resulted in important variation in these parameters. As few as 8% and as many as 57% of the puffins that we marked may have bred away from their natal colony, a signal of highly variable philopatry. Consistent with the conspecific attraction hypothesis, ND and PBM probabilities declined as the size of the origin colony increased. PBM probabilities were highest in the age 03 period, and these declined quickly with age thereafter. Strong colony and age effects in ND and PMB probabilities identify movement as a critical contributor to local population dynamics at our four study sites.
10.2307/2937241|We examined the pattern of development of assemblages of coral reef fishes on artificial reefs at One Tree Reef, Great Barrier Reef. Two sets of 8 reefs were built. To investigate the effects of habitat structure on species diversity, each set consisted of replicate pairs of 4 different reef types: plain (no holes), small-holed, medium-holed, and large-holed reefs. To examine seasonal differences in colonization, 1 set was established in summer (October 1971) and the other set in winter (July 1972). Visual censuses of the reefs' fish assemblages were made at monthly intervals over 32 mo (summer set) and 23 mo (winter set). We recorded a total of 105 resident species from the artificial reefs. Although less diverse, the fish assemblages differed little in terms of species composition from those of small natural patch reefs. Artificial reefs showed a high between-reef variability in species composition that was largely unrelated to habitat structure. Competitive interactions between species appeared unimportant in explaining the distribution of species between reefs. Likewise, possible positive associations between species were indicated for only a few species. Almost all settlement of the artificial reefs was by juvenile fishes. Recruitment was markedly seasonal and occurred mainly over summer (September-May). Juvenile recruitment patterns showed little year-to-year constancy. Most species tested showed nonrandom, clumped patterns of settlement on replicate reefs. More than half of species tested showed no significant differences on numbers of individuals which settled on different reefs, but the remainder showed significantly greater settlement on some reefs, suggesting habitat selection. For a few species, there was also greater recruitment to reefs already occupied by conspecifics, suggesting possible social facilitation of settlement. For most species, there were no significant interspecific interactions between adults and newly settling juveniles. Between-census variability in species composition was high and species turnover ranged from @?17% of species/mo in winter to @?39% in summer. Maximum times of persistence for most species were <12 mo, and for many individuals survivorship was of the order of only a few months. Much of the high turnover appears due to losses through predation. There was no evidence that a persistent species equilibrium was attained during colonization. Because of predation and the seasonally varying, uncertain nature of recruitment, we see the development of any long-term species equilibrium as unlikely. We suggest that nonequilibrium conditions are a characteristic of coral reef fish communities and that because of these conditions, high within-habitat diversities are maintained.
10.2307/3100063|Interactive effects of increases in atmospheric CO
10.2307/2937082|The structure of animal communities and the energy flux through them may be characterized by biomass ratios, ecological efficiencies, and production efficiencies of the component organisms. Here, we interpret these ratios in terms of the elementary processes of food intake, specific production rate, and gross growth efficiency that underlie them. Recent information confirms that the magnitude of all these processes is related to the average body mass of the organisms involved. However, our analysis shows that this well-known dependence reflects the influence of two different basic biological properties. One of these is the metabolism-body-size relation of individual that is familiar from physiology. The other less well-recognized property appears as an ecological population factor reflected in the distribution of particle sizes within animal groups in the community and is probably related to the relative sizes and distributions of predators and their prey. It appears that both the physiological and ecological size relationships have to be recognized as scaling factors in order to transform measures of biological production of various parts of communities into common terms for comparison. Current data on the generality and stability of community structure and production suggest that by using this twofold size scaling, trophic energy flow within the community can be determined from the distribution of body sizes without the necessity of specifying trophic levels of the organisms involved. The ecological size scaling can be seen as an index of the system nature of ecosystems.
27646168|Community assembly processes are thought to shape the mean, spread, and spacing of functional trait values within communities. Two broad categories of assembly processes have been proposed: first, a habitat filter that restricts the range of viable strategies and second, a partitioning of microsites and/or resources that leads to a limit to the similarity of coexisting species. The strength of both processes may be dependent on conditions at a particular site and may change along an abiotic gradient. We sampled environmental variables and plant communities in 44 plots across the varied topography of a coastal California landscape. We characterized 14 leaf, stem, and root traits for 54 woody plant species, including detailed intraspecific data for two traits with the goal of understanding the connection between traits and assembly processes in a variety of environmental conditions. We examined the within-community mean, range, variance, kurtosis, and other measures of spacing of trait values. In this landscape, there was a topographically mediated gradient in water availability. Across this gradient we observed strong shifts in both the plot-level mean trait values and the variation in trait values within communities. Trends in trait means with the environment were due largely to species turnover, with intraspecific shifts playing a smaller role. Traits associated with a vertical partitioning of light showed a greater range and variance on the wet soils, while nitrogen per area, which is associated with water use efficiency, showed a greater spread on the dry soils. We found strong nonrandom patterns in the trait distributions consistent with expectations based on trait-mediated community assembly. There was a significant reduction in the range of six out of 11 leaf and stem functional trait values relative to a null model. For specific leaf area (SLA) we found a significant even spacing of trait values relative to the null model. For seed size we found a more platykurtic distribution than expected. These results suggest that both a habitat filter and a limit to the similarity of coexisting species can simultaneously shape the distribution of traits and the assembly of local plant communities.
10.2307/2937159|Multiscale patterns of spatial and temporal variation in density and population structure were used to evaluate the generality of a three-trophic-level cascade among sea otters (Enhydra lutris), invertebrate herbivores, and macroalgae in Alaska. The paradigm holds that where sea otters occur herbivores are rare and plants are abundant, whereas when sea otters are absent herbivores are relatively common and plants are rare. Spatial patterns were based on 20 randomly placed quadrats at 153 randomly selected sites distributed among five locations with and four locations without sea otters. Both sea urchin and kelp abundance differed significantly among locations with vs. without sea otters in the Aleutian Islands and southeast Alaska. There was little (Aleutian Islands) or no (southeast Alaska) overlap between sites with and without sea otters, in plots of kelp density against urchin biomass. Despite intersite variation in the abundance of kelps and herbivores, these analyses demonstrate that sea otter predation has a predictable and broadly generalizable influence on the structure of Alaskan kelp forests. The percent cover of algal turf and suspension feeder assemblages also differed significantly (although less dramatically) between locations with and without sea otters. Temporal variation in community structure was assessed over periods of from 3 to 15 yr at sites in the Aleutian Islands and southeast Alaska where sea otters were 1) continuously present, 2) continuously absent, or 3) becoming reestablished because of natural range expansion. Kelp and sea urchin abundance remained largely unchanged at most sites where sea otters were continuously present or absent, the one exception being at Torch Bay (southeast Alaska), where kelp abundance varied significantly through time and urchin abundance varied significantly among sites because of episodic and patchy disturbances. In contrast, kelp and sea urchin abundances changed significantly, and in the expected directions, at sites that were being recolonized by sea otters. Sea urchin biomass declined by 50% in the Aleutian Islands and by nearly 100% in southeast Alaska following the spread of sea otters into previously unoccupied habitats. In response to these different rates and magnitudes of urchin reduction by sea otter predation, increases in kelp abundance were abrupt and highly significant in southeast Alaska but much smaller and slower over similar time periods in the Aleutian Islands. The different kelp colonization rates between southeast Alaska and the Aleutian Islands appear to be caused by large-scale differences in echinoid recruitment coupled with size-selective predation by sea otters for larger urchins. The length of urchin jaws (correlated with test diameter, r^2 = 0.968) in sea otter scats indicates that sea urchins <15-20 mm test diameter are rarely eaten by foraging sea otters. Sea urchin populations in the Aleutian Islands included high densities of small individuals (<20 mm test diameter) at all sites and during all years sampled, whereas in southeast Alaska similarly sized urchins were absent from most populations during most years. Small (<30-35 mm test diameter) tetracycline-marked urchins in the Aleutian Islands grew at a maximum rate of @?10 mm/yr; thus the population must have significant recruitment annually, or at least every several years. In contrast, echinoid recruitment in southeast Alaska was more episodic, with many years to perhaps decades separating significant events. Our findings help explain regional differences in recovery rates of kelp forests following recolonization by sea otters.
10.2307/2937308| Laboratory experiments have suggested that ingestion rates should increase with food concentration, that these functional responses should be depressed by increases in the availability of alternate foods, and that feeding preference should be shown for the most abundant of available foods. To test these hypotheses, simultaneous measures of the foraging of three species of littoral Cladocera, on two spatially differentiated food sources, were made in situ. The species investigated were Sida crystallina (O. F. Mller), Chydorus sphaericus (O. F. Muller), and Alona affinis (Leydig). The uptake rates of suspension and periphyton were measured with a double isotope technique. In situ foraging responses were determined through regression analysis. Ingestion rates were related to concentration of food, concentration of alternate food, and body size. Functional responses in situ ranged from Holling's type 2 to feeding inhibition, and the increased abundance of alternate food depressed functional responses in some cases and elevated them in other cases. Variations in feeding preference were examined in two species of cladocerans. One species (Sida) responded in a complex manner, showing increased preference for the most abundant food in one circumstance and increased preference for the least abundant food in another circumstance. The other species (Chydorus) responded to the inhibitory effect of one food source by increasing feeding preference for the alternate food. Due to the complexity of the behaviors, a multivariate in situ approach is suggested for future studies. 
10.2307/3100034|We studied variation in flowering phenology, fruit and seed set, and the abundance of the pollinators of four species of night-blooming Sonoran Desert columnar cacti for up to eight years at one site in Mexico and one year at one site in Arizona. We determined how spatiotemporal variation in plant-pollinator interactions affects the evolution of generalized pollination systems. We conducted pollinator exclusion and hand pollination experiments to document annual variability in pollinator reliability and to determine whether pollination systems were redundant (different species are partially or totally substitutable) or complementary (different species have an additive effect on fruit set). The cacti we studied included three species with generalized pollination systems involving bats, birds, and bees (cardon, Pachycereus pringlei; saguaro, Carnegiea gigantea; and organ pipe, Stenocereus thurberi) and one specialized moth-pollinated species (senita, Lophocereus schottii). We predicted that the migratory lesser long-nosed bat, Leptonycteris curasoae, is a less reliable pollinator than birds and bees, and that cacti with generalized pollination systems have more variable flowering phenologies than the specialized species. Annual time of peak flowering and mean size of flower crops were relatively invariant in saguaro and organ pipe. Time of peak flowering in cardon varied by as much as six weeks, and mean flower crop size varied three-fold over six years. In senita, peak flowering varied by as much as 5-8 wk among years. Peak numbers of the nectar bat L. curasoae varied among years, and bat density (0.9/ha) was an order of magnitude lower than that of cactus-visiting birds at both study sites. The abundance of migratory hummingbirds was also highly variable among years. Pollinator exclusion experiments indicated that bats were major pollinators of cardon, whereas diurnal visitors accounted for most fruit set in saguaro (except in 1995 when bats were most important) and organ pipe at our Mexican site; honeybees accounted for 64-87% of diurnal fruit set in these species. Annual variation in the contribution to fruit set by bats was substantially higher than that of diurnal pollinators in saguaro and organ pipe, but not in cardon. There was little geographic variation in the relative importance of nocturnal vs. diurnal pollinators in saguaro and senita, but bats were much more important for fruit set in organ pipe in Arizona than in Mexico. We generally detected no effect of different pollinators on number of seeds per fruit in any species. Annual variation in fruit set was lowest in saguaro, the species with the most diurnal pollination system, and highest in organ pipe, the species with the most generalized pollination system. Fruit set was strongly pollen limited only in females of cardon (a trioecious species) and in organ pipe (at both sites). The "missing" pollinators in both species are likely Leptonycteris bats. The pollination systems of saguaro and cardon were partially redundant, whereas that of organ pipe was complementary. The four species of cactus that we studied occur at the northern geographic limits of Mexican columnar cacti where many vertebrate pollinators are seasonal migrants. In the Sonoran Desert, variation in rainfall and spring temperatures affects timing of flowering and the extent of competition between cacti for pollinator visits and causes the relative importance of particular pollinators, especially Leptonycteris bats, for fruit set to vary annually. Under such conditions, selection has favored generalized pollination systems (as seen in organ pipe) or shifts from reliance primarily on nocturnal pollinators (as seen in cardon) to reliance primarily on diurnal pollinators (as seen in saguaro). Nonetheless, as exemplified by the senita-senita moth system, highly specialized pollination mutualisms can also evolve in this habitat in plants that rely on sedentary insects rather than migratory bats and birds for pollination.
10.2307/1943061|Observed properties of natural food webs have both important theoretical and important management implications. Four lowland aquatic food webs were investigated over the course of two years: a large swamp and a small stream in Costa Rica, and a similar swamp and stream in the Venezuelan llanos. Each local ecosystem differed from the three others with respect to environmental changes associated with seasonal rainfall. Phylogenetic composition and diversity of biotas also varied among systems. Volumetric proportional utilization coefficients from fish gut contents were used as estimates of the intensity of predator-prey interactions. An annual and two or more seasonal food webs were constructed for each local community. Aquatic communities were defined operationally using common fish species as consumers, and using the sink subweb associated with the top predator of each system. A computer calculated a variety of food-web statistics and plotted food-web diagrams containing either (a) all observed trophic links (predator-prey interactions), or (b) subsets with weak links eliminated at prescribed thresholds. Individual community food webs contained from 58 (stream, Costa Rica) to 104 (swamp, Venezuela) interactive taxonomic units and from 208 to 1243 total trophic links. Food-web parameters were very sensitive to changes in level of link threshold. Web connectance and related parameters converged near link threshold 0.04 (utilization coefficients <0.04 eliminated) in a variety of inter-web comparisons. Despite large differences in assemblage composition and attributes of the physical environment, distributions of trophic levels calculated according to a trophic continuum algorithm were very similar among study systems. Herbivores, detritivores, and their direct predators formed the largest proportions of fishes in each assemblage, followed by omnivores and secondary carnivores. Fishes that fed at more than one trophic interval were extremely common in all food webs. Analysis of covariance was used to compare structural features of different webs across a range of link thresholds. Extensive among-site variation in food-web parameters was associated with differences in species richness and environmental differences associated with rainfall patterns, physiography, and gross primary production. Seasons generally influenced food-web parameters less than did site differences. Relative importance of detritus, aquatic primary production, and terrestrial production in aquatic food webs varied seasonally in each system. Detritus, derived primarily from aquatic macrophytes, was an important pathway in both tropical swamp ecosystems. Aquatic primary productivity comprised the largest fraction of fish diets during the wet season in the Venezuelan swamp, but it formed the major component of fish diets during the dry season at all other sites. Based on comparisons using 13 webs, two-thirds of the pairings among six food-web parameters used (number of nodes, compartmentation, connectance, average number of prey per node, average number of predators per node, ratio of consumer nodes to total nodes) were positively intercorrelated. Several food-web relationships previously described as constant (e.g., connectance x species richness constancy, species scaling law, link-species scaling law) were not confirmed by my data. These earlier food-web trends are extremely sensitive to methodological biases, especially decisions regarding the degree of taxonomic lumping of species into trophic units. Although food webs have unique emergent properties and spinoff a number of potentially informative macrodescriptors, empirical studies must achieve greater precision and uniformity before analyses can be performed across different systems. Several problems and potential resolutions are discussed.
41739379|Semiarid Mediterranean regions are highly susceptible to desertification processes. This study investigated the influence of increasing climate aridity in explaining the decline in vegetation cover in highly vulnerable gypsum semiarid shrublands of the Mediterranean region. For this purpose, we have used time series of percent cover of vegetation obtained from remote sensing imagery (Landsat satellites). We found a dominant trend toward decreased vegetation cover, mainly in summer and in areas affected by the most severe water stress conditions (low precipitation, higher evapotranspiration rates, and sunexposed slopes). We show that past human management and current climate trends interact with local environmental conditions to determine the occurrence of vegetation degradation processes. The results suggest that degradation could be a consequence of the past overexploitation that has characterized this area (and many others in the Mediterranean region), but increased aridity, mainly related to global warming, may be triggering and/or accelerating the degradation processes. The observed pattern may be an early warning of processes potentially affecting more areas of the Mediterranean, according to the most up-todate climate change models for the 21st century.
10.2307/2657143|To elucidate the determinants of intertidal invertebrate body temperatures during aerial exposure, I developed deterministic models using the environmental inputs of solar radiation, air temperature, ground temperature, and wind speed to predict the body temperatures of intertidal mussels (Mytilus spp.). Combined with field studies, these models were used to determine the effects of body size on body temperature, and to compare the heat budgets of mussels living as solitary individuals vs. those living in aggregations (beds). On average, the model accurately predicted the body temperatures of solitary mussels in the field to within 1
43188343|In many desert ecosystems, vegetation is both patchy and dynamic: vegetated areas are interspersed with patches of bare ground, and both the positioning and the species composition of the vegetated areas exhibit change through time. These characteristics lead to the emergence of multi-scale patterns in vegetation that arise from complex relationships between plants, soils, and transport processes. Previous attempts to probe the causes of spatial complexity and predict responses of desert ecosystems tend to be limited in their focus: models of dynamics have been developed with no consideration of the inherent patchiness in the vegetation, or else models have been developed to generate patterns with no consideration of the dynamics. Here we develop a general modelling framework for the analysis of ecosystem change in deserts that is rooted in the concept of connectivity and is derived from a detailed process-based understanding. We explicitly consider spatial interactions among multiple vegetation types and multiple resources, and our model is formulated to predict responses to a variety of endogenous and exogenous disturbances. The model is implemented in the deserts of the American Southwest both to test hypotheses of the causes of the invasion of woody shrubs, and to test its ability to reproduce observed spatial differences in response to drought in the 20th century. The model's performance leads us to argue that vertical and lateral connectivity are key emergent properties of the ecosystem, which both control its behavior and provide indicators of its state. If this argument is shown to be compatible with field observations, the model presented here will provide a more certain approach toward preventing further degradation of semiarid grasslands.
10.2307/2937129|The population cycles of meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus) were studied in southeastern Manitoba, Canada, from 1968 to 1978 on a 32-ha old field and in surrounding boreal forest. Vole density was monitored on mark-recapture live-trapping at 2- to 4-wk intervals throughout the year. This was supplemented by a 3-d spring and a 30-d summer snap-trapping survey. Multiannual and annual fluctuations in density of Microtus were independent of a diversity of patterns seen in other small mammal species. Principal components analysis of demographic statistics was used to characterize changes in seasonal reproduction, survival, and dispersal that accounted for the observed numerical fluctuations. Conditions during a catastrophic winter population decline in 1970-1971 were compared with those in 1974-1975, when numbers recovered quickly after a modest spring decline. Voles were in good condition before and during both declines, as evidenced by normal body composition indices. Large body masses, characteristic of peak populations, preceded both population declines. The main conditions associated with the 1970-1971 decline were unusual patterns in social behavior and dispersal. Changes in social behavior in the field were reflected in unprecedented numbers of multiple captures in Longworth traps before and during this decline. Field observations were supported by unusually high frequencies of amicable behavior in neutral arena bouts staged between males removed from a control population. Little dispersal was detected with conventional live-trapping during the winter period of chronic mortality in 1971. In contrast, a period of acute mortality, resulting in the near extinction of the population in March 1971, was associated with considerable dispersal. We propose two alternative hypotheses consistent with the unpredictable and episodic nature of vole population declines: (1) an immunological dysfunction exists in voles that makes them susceptible to naturally occurring microparasites or (2) opportunistic, pathogenic microparasites exploit the changes in dispersal and social contacts that occur as a normal part of the vole population cycle.
10.2307/1942487|Mature subalpine forest communities were sampled at four locations in central Honshu, Japan--Mounts Fuji and Ontake and Yatsugatake and Chichibu Mountains. Data were subjected to similarity-ordination and association analyses. There are three major groups of communities: Tsuga diversifolia/moss, Abies spp./herb, and conifer/Sasa. Tsuga/moss forest understories are depauperate in vascular plants or dominated by ericads such as Rhododendron and Menziesia and have very stony soils. Abies/herb forests have luxuriant understories in which herbs and ferns are conspicuous; they occur over a wide range of soil conditions. Conifer/Sasa forests have extremely dense layers of dwarf bamboo (Sasa spp.) 1-1.5 m in height and occur on deep, fine-textured volcanic-as soils. Composition and structure of 11 community types and phases belonging to these groups are described. Successional trends appear to favor the more shade-tolerant Abies mariesii and Abies vetichii over Tsuga diversifolia and Picea jezoensis var. hondoensis although this varies with site. Japanese forests have many similarities with those in the eastern United States, but the dwarf bamboo communities are strictly an Asian phenomenon.
10.2307/2937305|We studied the relations between bird distribution and abundance and habitat characteristics at a regional scale of investigation, using surveys conducted over three consecutive years on 14 plots at nine locations in the shrubsteppe of the northwestern Great Basin of North America. Bivariate and multivariate analyses revealed no large suites of bird species that were correlated in their distribution and abundance, and few associations existed between pairs of species, suggesting that bird populations in this system vary largely independently of one another. Both bivariate and multivariate correlational analyses between birds and habitat physiognomy indicated that the bird species that were widely distributed in this shrubsteppe system had few significant associations with habitat features, while species with more localized distributions did exhibit habitat affinities, most notably with a suite of characters associated with the occurrence of rocky outcrops. Bird species whose primary distributions and habitat affinities lie in grassland regions to the east demonstrated the greatest degree of correlation with features of habitat physiognomy in this shrubsteppe region, increasing in abundance as vegetation coverage and stature increased and horizontal heterogeneity of habitats decreased. Some bird species, however, exhibited no correlations with the habitat features we measured, and multivariate analyses comparing variation in the bird abundances with variation in features of habitat physiognomy accounted for <17% of the overall variation in the bird abundance matrix. Consideration of coverages of different species of shrubs, however, generally produced more significant correlations with variations in bird abundances, especially for the widespread shrubsteppe species. Attributes of avian community structure varied among the locations surveyed. Variations in the abundance of Brewer's Sparrows, the most abundant species at most sites, accounted for 86% of the variation in total avian density. Species diversity was negatively correlated with total density (presumably because of the overwhelming influence of one species on density) but positively correlated with species richness. Richness variations, in turn, were a consequence of variations in the abundances of several locally distributed shrubsteppe species or grassland species. Richness decreased with increasing horizontal habitat heterogeneity and general vegetation sparseness, but increased with increasing structural diversity of the habitat. Variations in avian community biomass were largely a function of abundances of the widespread or peripheral species; none of the local shrubsteppe forms that contributed so much to species richness was correlated with total biomass variations. We compare the findings of these regional-scale analyses with those of a continental-scale study that included a habitat spectrum ranging from shrubsteppe through tallgrass prairies. Bird species exhibited different patterns of habitat correlations on the two spatial scales. In particular, the characteristic shrubsteppe species showed strong correlations with features of habitat physiognomy in the continental analysis, but in the regional study such associations were generally lacking and these birds instead were correlated with the coverages of various shrub species. This suggests that at a large scale, between-habitat level of analysis these birds may respond to some elements of general habitat configuration, but their within-habitat responses may be more strongly associated with details of habitat floristics. These results complicate studies of avian community/habitat relationships: complete understanding of ecological patterns apparently requires knowledge of vegetational floristics as well as physiognomy; the response of birds to habitat characteristics, and the habitat features that are important, may differ at different scales of spatial resolution. At both spatial scales, however, a substantial portion of the variation in avian abundance remains unexplained after consideration of habitat features. Relatively few significant correlations thus emerge, increasing the probability that those that are revealed may well be spurious, and reinforcing the view that biotic interactions such as competition probably play a minor role in structuring these communities.
27646137|To understand the role biota play in resilience or vulnerability to environmental change, we investigated soil, plant, and microbial responses to a widespread environmental change, increased nitrogen (N). Our aim was to test the plantsoil threshold hypothesis: that changed biotic structure influences resilience to accumulated changes in N. For six years, we removed one of two codominant species, Geum rossii and Deschampsia caespitosa, in moist-meadow alpine tundra in Colorado, USA. We also manipulated nutrient availability by adding carbon (C) or N, separately and in combination with the species removals. Consistent with our hypothesis, Geum was associated with soil feedbacks that slowed rates of N cycling and Deschampsia with feedbacks that increased rates of N cycling. After a four-year initial resilience period, Geum dramatically declined (by almost 70%) due to increasing N availability. In contrast, Deschampsia abundance did not respond to changes in N supply; it only responded to the removal of Geum. Forbs and graminoids responded more positively to Deschampsia removal than to Geum removal, indicating stronger competitive effects by Deschampsia. The changed biotic interactions appear to have community-level consequences: after six years of Geum (but not Deschampsia) removal, evenness of the community declined by over 35%. Increased N affected the soilmicrobial feedbacks, particularly in association with Geum. Microbial biomass N declined at higher N, as did the activities of two C-acquiring and one N-acquiring extracellular microbial enzymes. In the presence of Geum, N fertilization slowed the activity of phenol oxidase, a tannin-degrading enzyme, suggesting that microbes shift from degrading Geum-derived compounds. In the absence of Geum, acid phosphatase activity increased, suggesting increased phosphorus limitation in association with Deschampsia. With continued N deposition forecast for this system, these results suggest that initial resilience of Geum to increased N will be overwhelmed through elimination of microbial feedbacks. Once Geum declines, the loss will indirectly facilitate Deschampsia via competitive release. Because Deschampsia exerts strong competitive effects on subordinate species, increased Deschampsia abundance may be accompanied by a community-wide drop in diversity. We conclude that plantsoil feedbacks through the microbial community can influence vulnerability to exogenous changes in N and contribute to threshold dynamics.
10.2307/2937165|The recruitment of Phillyrea latifolia L. (Oleaceae), a bird-dispersed tree of Mediterranean forest, is described. Fruit removal by birds, seed rain, post-dispersal seed predation, seed germination, and seedling emergence, survival, and establishment were studied. The main objective was testing whether seed dispersal by birds produced a predictable seedling shadow as a result of coupled patterns of seed rain, seedling emergence, and seedling establishment. P. latifolia is a mast-fruiting species and large fruit crops were produced in only 2 (1981 and 1989) out of 15 yr (1978-1992). We report here on the 1989 fruiting event at one scrubland and one forest site. Ripe fruits were available from mid-September to early June. Extensive removal by birds started after fruit crops of other species were depleted. Seed dispersers were more abundant, and fruit predators more scarce, in scrubland than in forest. P. latifolia fruits were a major component in the diet of principal seed dispersers (Sylvia atricapilla and Erithacus rubecula) that depended almost exclusively on them for food late in the season. Fruit removal levels were higher, crops were depleted earlier, and individual plants dispersed more seeds in scrubland than in forest. Crop size was the best predictor of number of seeds dispersed by individual plants in scrubland, while fruit characteristics were more influential in forest. Seed dispersal was largely a within-population phenomenon, as no seed fall occurred in traps set beyond the distributional limits of P. latifolia in the study region. Frugivores produced a spatially predictable seed rain at the two sites. Seed rain was greatest beneath fleshy fruit-producing species (under female individuals in dioecious species) in scrubland and at forest-gap interfaces in forest. Post-dispersal seed predation was low at the two sites (39 and 54% after 1-yr exposure). In forest, seed survival was lower in gaps than in forest interior or forest edges. In scrubland, seed survival differed widely among microhabitats (defined by overlying plant species), ranging from 19% (open ground) to 61% (beneath Rosmarinus officinalis). In forest, density of emerging seedlings was unrelated to location in the habitat mosaic (gap, forest edge, interior). Seedling density did differ among microhabitats in scrubland, where emergence was greatest under fleshy fruit-producing species. Seedling survival was higher in forest than in scrubland, where seedlings incurred greater mortality due to desiccation. In both sizes, seedling survival depended significantly on microhabitat and was depressed under adult conspecifics. The activity of frugivores directly impacted seedling distribution in scrubland, as spatial patterns of seed deposition were not overshadowed by later-acting factors, such as rodent seed predation or variation in germination. In forest, there was spatial discordance between seed rain and seedling distribution, as a consequence of uncoupled seed rain and seedling emergence. Spatial patterns of seed deposition by birds may thus have a lasting impact on the population dynamics of P. latifolia, but this will vary among populations depending on the extent of coupling of the different stages in the recruitment process (dispersal-seed rain-germination and seedling establishment).
4539116|We employ an empirically motivated "case model" approach to investigate the theoretical foundations for the conservation of the endangered butterfly Maculinea arion. Maculinea butterflies have highly specialized larvae that sequentially exploit a plant and an ant species. Our study establishes that M. arion's specialized life cycle, including scramble competition for limiting resources, and the spatially discrete nature of its resources, make it more sensitive to environmental variation and more prone to local extinction than other univoltine phytophagous species. We find that the number and spatial distribution of the butterfly's resources are key factors in their population dynamics, especially for M. arion populations in habitats associated with high larval survival and high adult fecundity. Factors that increase juvenile competition have first a positive effect on adult population size, but beyond a threshold this effect becomes negative. In general, oscillatory dynamics emerge for high potential growth rates and spatially homogeneous juvenile competition. We discuss the relevance of our results to population management, investigate the consequences of environmental variation, and consider different scenarios of conservation. Our model, although based on the Maculinea genus, should apply to a broad range of species for which the form of competitive interactions changes predictably at distinct points in the life cycle. Complex life cycles can lead to negative feedbacks involving parameters that are usually thought to optimize population size. We suggest that conservation strategies are neither generalizable for the Maculinea genus nor for disparate populations of each species of Maculinea, and rather that management should be conducted on a case-by-case basis.
43187595|Until now, decomposition of abundance-sensitive gamma (regional) phylogenetic diversity measures into alpha and beta (within-and between-group) components has been based on an additive partitioning of phylogenetic generalized entropies, especially Rao's quadratic entropy. This additive approach led to a phylogenetic measure of differentiation between assemblages: (gamma -alpha)/gamma. We show both empirically and theoretically that this approach inherits all of the problems recently identified in the additive partitioning of non-phylogenetic generalized entropies. When within-assemblage (alpha) quadratic entropy is high, the additive beta and the differentiation measure (gamma  alpha)/gamma always tend to zero (implying no differentiation) regardless of phylogenetic structures and differences in species abundances across assemblages. Likewise, the differentiation measure based on the phylogenetic generalization of Shannon entropy always approaches zero whenever gamma phylogenetic entropy is high. Such critical flaws, inherited from their non-phylogenetic parent measures (Gini-Simpson index and Shannon entropy respectively), have caused interpretational problems. These flaws arise because phylogenetic generalized entropies do not obey the replication principle, which ensures that the diversity measures are linear with respect to species addition or group pooling. Furthermore, their complete partitioning into independent components is not additive (except for phylogenetic entropy). Just as in the non-phylogenetic case, these interpretational problems are resolved by using phylogenetic Hill numbers that obey the replication principle. Here we show how to partition the phylogenetic gamma diversity based on Hill numbers into independent alpha and beta components, which turn out to be multiplicative. The resulting phylogenetic beta diversity (ratio of gamma to alpha) measures the effective number of completely phylogenetically distinct assemblages. This beta component measures pure differentiation among assemblages and thus can be used to construct several classes of similarity or differentiation measures normalized onto the range [0, 1]. We also propose a normalization to fix the traditional additive phylogenetic similarity and differentiation measures, and we show that this yields the same similarity and differentiation measures we derived from multiplicative phylogenetic diversity partitioning. We thus can achieve a consensus on phylogenetic similarity and differentiation measures, including N-assemblage phylogenetic generalizations of the classic Jaccard, Srensen, Horn, and Morisita-Horn measures. Hypothetical and real examples are used for illustration.
10.2307/1942449|Vegetation-environment relationships were studied in forest stands located on slopes and a floodplain in northeastern North Dakota. Coverage values of all vascular plants and basal area, frequency, density, and mensuration data for tree species were obtained. A total of 109 species of vascular plants, 10 of mosses, and 15 of lichens are reported for the 40 plots studied. The three most important (based on importance value) overstory species are Quercus macrocarpa, Tilia americana, and Fraxinus pennsylvanica var. subintegerrima. Less important overstory species include Ulmus americana, Acer negundo, Populus tremuloides, and Betula papyrifera. Tree-ring analysis indicates that the present forest is less than 100 yr old. Correlation analyses were made between community characteristics of vegetation and the topographic parameters, slope inclination, aspect, and elevation. Principal component analysis and Swan-Dix-Wehrhahn ordination were used to establish five abstract community types. Environmental soil parameters measured for each soil horizon within the rooting zone include available water capacity; pH; electrical conductivity; cation exchange capacity; percentage organic matter; replaceable Ca, Mg, K, Na, Sr, and Mn; available P; and EDTA-extractable Al, Cu, Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb, Si, Sr, and Zn. Topographic and soil parameters were used for stepwise elimination multiple regressions to develop predictive equations for the distribution of plant species. Correlation analysis reveals that the basal area of trees and number and coverage values of herbaceous species is highest on lower elevations and south exposures. Whereas pronounced vegetation differences occur between slopes and the floodplain, the vegetation patterns on the slopes are continuous and overlapping. Based on the results from multiple regression analysis, gradients for potential solar beam irradiation, available water capacity, elevation, linear aspect, slope inclination, and replaceable K were established. By use of coverage values, ecological modalities of selected species are demonstrated along quantified gradients. Relationships of plots in several bivariate combinations show patterns of community type resembling those obtained by stand ordination.
27806875|The mineralization of nitrogen and phosphorus from plant residues provides an important input of inorganic nutrients to the soil, which can be taken up by plants. The dynamics of nutrient mineralization or immobilization during decomposition are controlled by different biological and physical factors. Decomposers sequester carbon and nutrients from organic substrates and exchange inorganic nutrients with the environment to maintain their stoichiometric balance. Additionally, physical losses of organic compounds from leaching and other processes may alter the nutrient content of litter. In this work, we extend a stoichiometric model of litter nitrogen mineralization to include (1) phosphorus mineralization, (2) physical losses of organic nutrients, and (3) chemical heterogeneity of litter substrates. The enhanced model provides analytical mineralization curves for nitrogen and phosphorus as well as critical litter carbon: nutrient ratios (the carbon: nutrient ratios below which net nutrient release occurs) as a function of the elemental composition of the decomposers, their carbon-use efficiency, and the rate of physical loss of organic compounds. The model is used to infer the critical litter carbon: nutrient ratios from observed nitrogen and phosphorus dynamics in about 2600 litterbag samplings from 21 decomposition data sets spanning artic to tropical ecosystems. At the beginning of decomposition, nitrogen and phosphorus tend to be immobilized in boreal and temperate climates (i.e., both C:N and C:P critical ratios are lower than the initial ratios), while in tropical areas nitrogen is generally released and phosphorus may be either immobilized or released, regardless of the typically low phosphorus concentrations. The critical carbon: nutrient ratios we observed were found to increase with initial litter carbon: nutrient ratios, indicating that decomposers adapt to low-nutrient conditions by reducing their carbon-use efficiency. This stoichiometric control on nutrient dynamics appears ubiquitous across climatic regions and ecosystems, although other biological and physical processes also play important roles in litter decomposition. In tropical humid conditions, we found high critical C:P ratios likely due to high leaching and low decomposer phosphorus concentrations. In general, the compound effects of stoichiometric constraints and physical losses explain most of the variability in critical carbon: nutrient ratios and dynamics of nutrient immobilization and release at the global scale.
23208478|Ecology is inherently multivariate, but high-dimensional data are difficult to understand. Dimension reduction with ordination analysis helps with both data exploration and clarification of the meaning of inferences (e.g., randomization tests, variation partitioning) about a statistical population. Most such inferences are asymmetric, in that variables are classified as either response or explanatory (e.g., factors, predictors). But this asymmetric approach has limitations (e.g., abiotic variables may not entirely explain correlations between interacting species). We study symmetric population-level inferences by modeling correlations and co-occurrences, using these models for out-of-sample prediction. Such modeling requires a novel treatment of ordination axes as random effects, because fixed effects only allow within-sample predictions. We advocate an iterative methodology for random-effects ordination: (1) fit a set of candidate models differing in complexity (e.g., number of axes); (2) use information criteria to choose among models; (3) compare model predictions with data; (4) explore dimension-reduced graphs (e.g., biplots); (5) repeat 14 if model performance is poor. We describe and illustrate random-effects ordination models (with software) for two types of data: multivariate-normal (e.g., log morphometric data) and presenceabsence community data. A large simulation experiment with multivariate-normal data demonstrates good performance of (1) a small-sample-corrected information criterion and (2) factor analysis relative to principal component analysis. Predictive comparisons of multiple alternative models is a powerful form of scientific reasoning: we have shown that unconstrained ordination can be based on such reasoning.
10.2307/2937094|We studied prey populations and the use and composition of home ranges of 47 Northern Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) over 12 mo in five landscapes in two forest types in southwestern Oregon. We measured 1-yr home ranges of 23 owl pairs, 2-yr home ranges of 13 pairs, and 3-yr home ranges of 3 pairs. The landscapes differed in the degree to which old forest had been fragmented by wildfire and logging. Prey populations were measured at 47 sites in southwestern Oregon. Further data on prey populations were gathered on 14 sites on the Olympic Peninsula in northern Washington, where owls use larger ranges than in Oregon. Owls in Washington used @?1700 ha of old forest annually and primarily one prey species; available prey biomass was 61 g/ha. Owls in Oregon Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) forests used 813 @+ 133 ha (X @+ SE) of old forest annually and concentrated on two prey species that had a combined biomass of 244 g/ha. Owls in Oregon mixed-conifer forest used 454 @+ 84 ha of old forest annually and three primary prey whose availability averaged 338 g/ha. The amount of old forest used by owls studied for 2 yr was 40% greater in the 2nd yr than that used in the 1st yr. No increase in use of old forest was seen in the 3rd yr in Douglas-fir forest; 50% more old forest was used in 3 yr than in the 1st yr in mixed-conifer forest. The most common prey in Washington and Oregon was the northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus). In areas where the flying squirrel was the primary prey and where predation was intense (as judged by telemetry), flying squirrel populations were depressed. The addition of medium-sized mammal species, especially woodrats (Neotoma spp.), to the prey base appeared to reduce markedly the amount of old forest used for foraging. Owls traversed 85% more Douglas-fir forest and 3 times more mixed-conifer forest in the heavily fragmented areas than in the lightly fragmented areas. Overlap among pairs and separation of birds within pairs in space increased with fragmentation. In the most heavily fragmented landscape, social structure appeared to be abnormal, as judged by the proportion of adult-subadult pairs, instances of adult nomadism, and overlap among the home ranges of pairs. The pattern of fragmentation affected the ability of owls to find concentrations of old forest in the landscapes. Even so, almost all the owls consistently selected old forests for foraging and roosting; only one owl selected a younger type as part of its foraging range. Selection of old forest was significant at three levels: landscape, annual home ranges of pairs, and foraging and roosting sites of individuals. The most important prey species, the northern flying squirrel, was twice as abundant in old forest as in young forest in all areas. Landscape indices (dominance, contagion, variance in density of old forest) had less predictive ability than indices based on owl home ranges because owls selected areas of concentrated old forest and because patterning was complex, reflecting four processes, each operating at a different scale: physiography, human land ownership (259-ha scale), history of catastrophic fires, and history of small-scale fires and timber harvesting.
10.2307/2937114|To assess the diversity of tropical tree life histories, a conceptual framework is needed to guide quantitative comparative study of many species. We propose one such framework, which focuses on long-term performance through ontogeny and over the natural range of microsites. For 6 yr we annually evaluated survival, growth, and microsite conditions of six non-pioneer tree species in primary tropical wet forest at the La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. The species were: Lecythis ampla, Hymenolobium mesoamericanum, Dipteryx panamensis, Pithecellobium elegans, Hyeronima alchorneoides (all emergents), and Minquartia guianensis (a canopy species). The study was based on long-term measurement of individuals from all post-seedling size classes. Trees were sampled from 150 ha of primary forest spanning several watersheds and soil types. To evaluate individuals' microsites we recorded the number of overtopping crowns, forest phase (gap, building, mature), and crown illumination index (an estimate of the tree's light environment). For comparison, we also evaluated the microsites of three species that have been categorized as pioneers (Cecropia insignis, C. obtusifolia) or high-light demanders (Simarouba amara). For the six species of non-pioneers, mortality rates declined with increasing juvenile size class. As a group, these emergent and canopy trees showed a much lower exponential annual mortality rate (0.44%/yr at >10 cm diameter) than has been found for the La Selva forest as a whole. Growth rates increased with juvenile size class for all six species. As adults (trees >30 cm in diameter), all five emergent species showed substantial annual diameter increments (medians of 5-14 mm/yr). Small saplings and adults of all species had significant year-to-year variation in diameter growth, with much greater growth occurring in the year of lowest rainfall. Passage time analysis suggests that all six species require >150 yr for growth from small saplings to the canopy. Evaluation of all nine species revealed four patterns of microsite occupancy by juveniles. Among the non-pioneers, one species pair (Lecythis and Minquartia: Group A) was associated with low crown illumination and mature-phase forest in all juvenile stages. For two species (Dipteryx and Hymenolobium: Group B) the smallest saplings were in predominantly low-light, mature-forest sites, but crown illumination and association with gap- or building-phase sites increased with juvenile size (Simarouba also showed this pattern). Two species (Pithecellobium and Hyeronima: Group C) were strongly associated with gap or building phase as small juveniles (@<4 cm diameter) and again as subcanopy trees (>10-20 cm diameter), but were predominantly in mature-phase sites at intermediate sizes. Juveniles of the two pioneer species (Cecropia: Group D) showed the highest crown illumination and association with gap or building sites. Among the six non-pioneer species, only one aspect of juvenile performance clearly varied according to microsite group. The smallest saplings (@<1 cm diameter) of Groups B and C showed significant mortality differences across a small gradient in crown illumination; neither of the Group A species showed this pattern. Otherwise, juvenile performance was strikingly similar among the six species. All showed a capacity for growth responses to small increases in light, substantial height and diameter increments at higher light levels, equal ability to survive 4-yr periods of no growth, and very low mortality rates at intermediate-to-large juvenile sizes. Species differed significantly in growth rates, but relative differences shifted with tree size and were unrelated to microsite group. These findings do not support prevailing paradigms concerning trade-offs and correlated suites of traits. For non-pioneer tropical trees, life history classification based on generalized concepts such as gap dependence and shade tolerance is inadequate to describe the complex size-dependent patterns of life history differences and similarities that exist among species.
10.2307/1942644|The existing warm (Larrea) deserts of the Southwest are Holocene expansions replacing late-Pleistocene, evergreen woodlands of low-statured junipers, pinyon pines, and live oaks; these woodlands have been isolated by complementary contraction to the slopes of higher mountains that rise like islands from the modern desert sea. Because pinyon-juniper woodland is now so widespread on the similar fault-block mountains of the Great Basin, even as far north as southern Idaho, it would seem reasonable to suppose that the modern @'cold@' (Artemisia, Atriplex) deserts were similarly wooded during the last glacial. However, conclusive Neotoma macrofossil evidence (45 ^1^4C-dated assemblages are reported here) documents major latitudinal displacement of vegetation that precludes pinyon-juniper woodland in the northern and central Great Basin at that time. On the other hand, the entire Mohave Desert sector (south of @?37@?N) served as an extensive Pleistocene refugium for pinyon-juniper woodland, as documented by an additional 48 dated Neotoma deposits. During the Wisconsinan glacial in the southeastern corner of Oregon, a 42@?27'N, there was a subarctic landscape of hyperboreal, prostrate shrublet-junipers (Juniperus horizontalis and J. communis) and widespread patterned ground, even at the near-basal elevation of 1460 m. The pleniglacial vegetation of the central Great Basin at 39@?N in eastern Nevada and western Utah, was dominated by a regional subalpine forest of bristlecone pine (Pinus longaeva), associated with minor but consistent boreal juniper (J. communis) down to 1660 m, close to the base level imposed by pluvial Lake Bonneville. Spruce has not been recorded below 1900 m during the last glacial. At a lower range of elevation (1350-1525 m), available south of the southeastern rim of the Bonneville basin at 37@?30'N. Pinus longaeva was replaced by limber pine (P. flexilis), Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga), and montane red cedar (J. scopulorum); existing woodland juniper (J. osteosperma) was lacking, but the subalpine J. communis was present at this local base level. Theory of island biogeography, as applied to ecological islands atop the high mountains of the Great Basin, is reexamined in the light of the drastic vegetational displacements documented in the detailed Quaternary macrofossil record. Species/area plots of montane-subalpine conifers presently distributed on 54 Great Basin mountaintops show an overall insular pattern that is especially well developed on the subset of 38 ecological islands east of 116@?W; the slope of z = 0.26 is close to the theoretical value for islands in equilibrium. All 11 taxa of montane-subalpine conifers that penetrate the Great Basin deeply have their main distributions in the Rocky Mountains; only three wide-ranging species occur also in the Sierra Nevada. A long sundering trough in the western Great Basin parallels and isolates the Cascade-Sierran uplift with low-elevation barriers that impede migration, but in the eastern Great Basin there are high connecting divides to the western Rockies, especially via an axial route southeast of the Bonneville basin. There is an east-west pattern of declining species richness of11 montane conifers in the Great Basin that correlates with distance from the rocky Mountain pool of 12 coniferous species. The pleniglacial subalpine forests in the lowlands of the central Great Basin had only one to three species of conifers (e.g., Pinus longaeva, Picea engelmannii, Juniperus communis). During the great late-glacial/Holocene (12 000-8000 yr BP) warming of climate, these shifted upward in elevation and were augmented in the east (but not in the west) by as many as five additional species of montane conifers. Macrofossil evidence indicted that the later Holocene arrivals dispersed across barriers of woodland and desert that by then isolated the shrunken montane islands. Moderately long-range transport of seeds by birds is deduced as follows: a northward latitudinal shift of 500-640 km during the Holocene is documented for several species of relatively thermophilous conifers, including the heavy-seeded, late-maturing pinyon pine. A 640-km migration in 8000 yr (80 m/yr) is indicated for pinyon, but the most generous estimate of its dispersal rate via the wind/gravity mode is a plodding 0.4 m/yr (3.2 km/8000 yr), orders of magnitude too slow. Seed dispersal by Clark's Nutcrackers and Pinyon Jays, however, is both the prevalent mode and amply swift enough to fit the known migrational history. Hence, the islands-in-equilibrium pattern indicated by the typically insular slope (z = 0.26) for montane conifers on the eastern set of mountaintops in the Great Basin is a reflection of Holocene immigration via sweepstakes dispersal being offset by extinction on the smaller islands. Both extinction and immigration of conifers are documented in the late-glacial/early-Holocene Neotoma record from the small Confusion Range in the east-central Great Basin of western Utah.
4134786|Fire is thought to be the dominant disturbance agent in pure ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa Laws.) forests, but fire severity and disturbances other than fire, and the effects of these events over time, have rarely been analyzed. We first created systematic criteria to (1) identify the causes of tree regeneration and mortality events and (2) classify the severity of these events. These criteria were then applied to understand the effect of events on ponderosa pine forests in Rocky Mountain National Park (RMNP), Colorado. For each of nine intensive study plots sampled in the pure ponderosa pine zone of RMNP, we mapped and dated live and dead trees and the spatial extent of fire and nonfire events using dendrochronology. Events were identified using evidence of disturbance agents, such as blue-stain fungus in the case of mountain pine beetles, fire scars, and climatic reconstructions. Disturbance severity was classified based on amounts and spatial distribution of regeneration, mortality, and survivors. We studied the temporal and spatial relationships between events and tree age structures to determine historical and contemporary stand dynamics. We identified 103 events among the nine study plots; 97% of these events were fire. High-severity events were 7% of events, 2% of events were mixed-severity, and the other 70% were low-severity. The severity of 20% of events could not be determined. All but one of the high-severity events were fire. In seven plots, at least one crown fire occurred within the last 300 years. In RMNP, pre-EuroAmerican settlement crown fires led to dense, even-aged stands. Subsequent surface fires killed some trees and facilitated the regeneration of others, leading to less dense, uneven-aged stands after ~200-300 years. Climate may be the cause or co-cause of one or two regeneration pulses within the last 300 years, but most regeneration and mortality is associated with fire. The historical occurrence of crown fires, as well as surface fires, in pure ponderosa pine forests in RMNP indicates that the fire regime is more variable than previously thought. Suppression of crown fires, though not completely possible, would move the fire regime outside its historical range of natural variability.
40385232|By extracting energy from the highly dynamic wind and wave fields that typify pelagic habitats, albatrosses are able to proceed almost exclusively by gliding flight. Although energetic costs of gliding are low, enabling breeding albatrosses to forage hundreds to thousands of kilometers from their colonies, these and time costs vary with relative wind direction. This causes albatrosses in some areas to route provisioning trips to avoid headwind flight, potentially limiting habitat accessibility during the breeding season. In addition, because female albatrosses have lower wing loadings than males, it has been argued that they are better adapted to flight in light winds, leading to sexual segregation of foraging areas. We used satellite telemetry and immersion logger data to quantify the effects of relative wind speed, sex, breeding stage, and trip stage on the ground speeds $(V_g )$ of four species of Southern Ocean albatrosses breeding at South Georgia. $V_g $ was linearly related to the wind speed component in the direction of flight $(V_w _f )$, its effect being greatest on Wandering Albatrosses Diomedea exulans, followed by Black-browed Albatrosses Thalassarche melanophrys, Lightmantled Sooty Albatrosses Phoebatria palpebrata, and Gray-headed Albatrosses T. chrysostoma. Ground speeds at $V_w _f $ = 0 were similar to airspeeds predicted by aerodynamic theory and were higher in males than in females. However, we found no evidence that this led to sexual segregation, as males and females experienced comparable wind speeds during foraging trips. Black-browed, Gray-headed, and Light-mantled Sooty Albatrosses did not engage in direct, uninterrupted bouts of flight on moonless nights, but Wandering Albatrosses attained comparable $V_g $ night and day, regardless of lunar phase. Relative flight direction was more important in determining $V_g $ than absolute wind speed. When birds were less constrained in the middle stage of foraging trips, all species flew predominantly across the wind. However, in some instances, commuting birds encountered headwinds during outward trips and tail winds on their return, with the result that $V_g $ was 1.0-3.4 m/s faster during return trips. This, we hypothesize, could result from constraints imposed by the location of prey resources relative to the colony at South Georgia or could represent an energy optimization strategy.
10.2307/2963460|In the southern part of Korup National Park, Cameroon, nine replicate plots (40  80 m) in forest with low abundances (5-15% of the basal area of all trees  30 cm gbh [girth at breast height]; LEM) and nine with high abundances (45-68%; HEM) of ectomycorrhizal caesalpiniaceous legumes were selected from an earlier enumeration along an east-west 5-km transect. The codominant caesalps in HEM plots were Microberlinia bisulcata, Tetraberlinia bifoliolata, and T. moreliana, and ordination showed the LEM and HEM plots to be floristically distinct. The HEM plots lay in a large well-defined patch of these caesalps, set within surrounding LEM forest. A further contrast to HEM forest was achieved by selecting six LEM and six VLEM plots (very low,  0% ectomycorrhizal trees) on a second transect 12 km to the north. Korup has an annual rainfall of 5180 mm with one very distinct 3-mo dry season (December-February). The soils are sandy, acidic, and very phosphorus poor. The aim was to determine whether LEM and HEM plots differed in their litter and soil phosphorus status and the characteristics of their phosphorus cycles. On 13 occasions between August 1988 and September 1990, litter and soils in the surface root layer and the mineral layer 5 cm below were sampled on the main transect and analyzed for phosphorus fractions. This analysis distinguished between inorganic and organic forms and provided various measures of liability. Nitrogen and carbon contents, pH, and moisture contents of each layer, depth of the root layer, and amounts of litter (i.e., litter mass) and soil were the other main variables. In a subset of plots, leaf litterfall was collected over the period and analyzed for phosphorus and nitrogen, and two litter-bag experiments in early wet seasons estimated rates of litter disappearance. Root biomass and change with depth were estimated from pit samples within the plots. HEM plots had slightly higher mean basal area of trees than LEM plots (32.3 and 27.1 m
43188345|Population genetic theory and empirical comparisons of sister and sympatric marine species show that life history traits related to dispersal, such as pelagic duration (PD), should affect the frequency and spatial scale of migration, and thus influence population genetic structure. However, recent global analyses have concluded that PD is poorly correlated with marine population genetic structure. Here, we identify and compare genetic structure between four pairs of synchronously diverging co-distributed (SDC) species, drawn from standardized analyses of eight eastern North Pacific rocky intertidal invertebrates and one macrophyte. We test two hypotheses: Ho, that species with similar dispersal potential have similar population genetic structure, and H, that species with higher dispersal potential have lower population genetic differentiation. We find that differences in census population size (Nc), fecundity (F), and PD are sufficient to explain measured differences in population genetic structure (ST) between SDC species. However, theoretical differences in migration potential, calculated as a function of Nc, F, and PD, exceed empirical differences in migration, suggesting important roles for genetic drift and natural selection in structuring marine populations in the eastern North Pacific. A quantitatively similar relationship between PD and FST has been calculated for co-distributed species from the Great Barrier Reef, suggesting that meta-analyses of SDC species may reveal general patterns in how species' traits and geographical variation interact to structure populations.
4134789|Dogma asserts that desert shrubs should become uniformly dispersed through time through a process of self-thinning caused by competition for water. We present long-term data (1985-2001) on two nearby populations of the perennial shrub, Chrysothamnus nauseosus ssp. consimilis, in sand-dune ecosystems near Mono Lake, California. Because previous studies established that water limited the growth, survival, and reproduction of this shrub, we searched for population-level patterns of competition. A seven-year history of survival, growth, and flowering of marked individuals delineated five demographic stage classes corresponding roughly to age and plant size: seedlings, nonflowering juveniles, juveniles that later flowered, adults that flowered intermittently, and "immortal" adults that flowered annually. For all stages except nonflowering juveniles, initial size was a strong predictor of life expectancy, and for the reproductive classes, flowering was associated with larger size and higher survival. Survival of nonflowering juveniles was strongly related to depth to ground water (consistent with the biology of phreatophytes, defined as plants that use deep soil moisture) corresponding to a critical demographic shift at this phreatophytic threshold necessary for long-term survival and reproduction. We therefore predicted that only the pre-phreatophytic stage classes dependent on depletable upper soil moisture should compete with close neighbors. Neither mixed-age population of C. nauseosus nor any single stage class within them was uniformly dispersed. Younger classes (seedling and juveniles) were aggregated, and older classes (from newly reproductive through oldest adults) were randomly dispersed with respect to their nearest neighbor. The younger the stage, the more aggregated was the dispersion. All five seedling cohorts became significantly less aggregated with time during the study, consistent with a hypothesis of competitive thinning. However, mortality was statistically density independent at a landscape scale in all classes and all years and resulted in thinning toward reduced aggregation, just as expected under competition. Two distinct stage-specific patterns occurred. Whereas the phreatophytic stage classes experienced only density-independent mortality, the pre-phreatophytic stage classes experienced opposing density dependence at different spatial scales. Seedling cohorts in particular exhibited strong direct density dependence within the first 1-3 years in a local neighborhood of 20 cm or less, in both survival (higher mortality in dense aggregations) and growth (seedlings in groups were smaller and grew more slowly than those not in groups). In contrast, these classes exhibited inversely density-dependent survival, and often growth, on a scale of 1-4 m caused by spatial heterogeneity and not facilitation such as by nurse plants. Although competition occurred for only the first 1-3 years of the life history, it caused size differences among individuals that increased through time and that significantly predicted long-term survival and eventual recruitment to the reproductive class. Despite this potential for long-lasting effects on population dynamics, competitive thinning was too brief and stage-structured spatial processes were too complex to result in a uniform dispersion of individuals in this mixed-age population.
20787449|Paleoecological studies enhance our understanding of biotic response to climate change because they consider timescales not accessible through laboratory or ecological studies. From 60 to 51 million years ago (Ma), global temperatures gradually warmed to the greatest sustained highs of the last 65 million years. Superimposed on this gradual warming is a transient spike of high temperature and pCO 2 (partial pressure of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere; the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum 55.8 Ma) and a subsequent short-term cooling event (54 Ma). The highly resolved continental fossil record of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming, USA, spans this interval and is therefore uniquely suited to examine the long-term effects of temperature change on the two dominant groups in terrestrial ecosystems, plants and insect herbivores. We sampled insect damage on fossil angiosperm leaves at nine well-dated localities that range in age from 52.7 to 59 Ma. A total of 9071 leaves belonging to 107 species were examined for the presence or absence of 71 insect-feeding damage types. Damage richness, frequency, and composition were analyzed on the bulk floras and individual host species. Overall, there was a strong positive correlation between changes in damage richness and changes in estimated temperature, a weak positive relationship for damage frequency and temperature, and no significant correlation for floral diversity. Thus, insect damage richness appears to be more sensitive to past climate change than to plant diversity, although plant diversity in our samples only ranges from 6 to 25 dicot species. The close tracking of the richness of herbivore damage, a presumed proxy for actual insect herbivore richness, to both warming and cooling over a finely divided, extended time interval has profound importance for interpreting the evolution of insects and plantinsect associations in the context of deep time. Our results also indicate that increased insect herbivory is likely to be a net long-term effect of anthropogenic warming.
10.2307/1942175|The Campbell-Dolomite uplands comprise a small area (140 km2) of outcropping, faulted dolomite, limestone, and shale east of the Mackenzie River Delta, ~ 40 km south of the northern limit of trees. The major landforms are bedrock ridges and plateaux, steep colluvium, stable slopes, shorelines, and depressions. A principal component analysis of vegetation-cover data from 150 stands suggest that much of the variation within the heterogeneous vegetation is correlated with these broad habitat categories. Stable surfaces bear an open spruce woodland with alder, tree and dwarf birch, and a varied lichen-heath-Dryas ground vegetation. A glacially modified karstic (solution) depression contains a small (8 ha), relatively deep (22 m), apparently meromictic lake, which yielded a 12,000-yr core of sediment. A conventional percentage diagram, an influx diagram, and numerical analysis (principal components) suggest a sequence of pollen assemblage zones as follows: (1) Salix-Gramineae-Artemisia: 13,000 to 11,300 radiocarbon yr ago, (2) Betula (shrub)-Salix-Gramineae-Artemisia: 11,300 to 10,300, (3) Betula-Populus: 10,300 to 9,700, (4) Betula-Populus-Juniperus: 9,700 to 8,900, (5) Picea-Betula (tree and shrub)-Juniperus: 8,900 to 6,500, and (6) Picea-Betula-Alnus: 6,500 to present. Both percentage data and numerical analyses show that none of the pollen assemblage zones 1 to 5 has a modern analogue. With 1 exception, these patterns of change in pollen spectra can be interpreted parsimoniously without reference to regional environmental change. They suggest an initial phase of migration of willow and herbs from adjacent unglaciated Megaberingia (North Yukon and Alaska), followed rapidly by dwarf birch and later poplar. Megaberingian floristic elements (e.g., Plantago canescens, Selaginella sibirica) reached the area during this early phase of migration. Subsequently arriving from the south along the Mackenzie valley were juniper, ericads, spruce, and finally alder, which intensified competition and restricted the early Megaberingian herb types to open, unstable habitats where they persist today. Slow soil development (humus accumulation, rising permafrost table) probably favoured the spread of the palynologically 'silent' elements--lichens, ericads, and Dryas (the dominants of the modern ground vegetation). Changes in the influx values of Picea suggest a climatically induced increase in tree density and/or pollen production during the period 9,000-7,000 BP (Zone 5).
10.2307/1942174|Living biomass, organic matter distribution, and organic matter production budgets were determined for plant communities of a small watershed dominated by 450-yr-old Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco forests. Dominant trees in the communities were large, up to 175 cm diam and 80 m tall. Aboveground tree biomass of the various communities ranged from 491.8-975.8 tonnes/hectare, total aboveground living biomass ranged from 500.4-982.5 t/ha, total leaf biomass ranged from 10.4-16.3 t/ha and total organic matter accumulations ranged from 1,008.3-1,513.7 t/ha. Total tree biomass in the various communities was more related to past mortality than habitat differences. Biomass of standing dead trees and fallen logs was generally inversely related to aboveground tree biomass. Amounts of woody detritus were large, ranging from 59.0-650.6 t/ha or 4.3%-43.0% of total community organic accumulation. Aboveground tree biomass increment was negative in all communities, ranging from -2.9 to -6.2 t/ha. Positive increment by shrubs and trees <15 cm dbh, produced overall aboveground biomass increment -2.5 to -5.0 t/ha. Mortality averaged 1% of standing biomass. Aboveground net primary production in the various communities ranged from 6.3 to 10.1 t@?ha^-^1@?^-^1 and was roughly proportional to standing biomass. Net primary production consisted entirely of detritus. Total community autotrophic respiration ranged from 102.9-203.7 t@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 of which @?70% was by foliage. Gross primary production ranged from 111.2-216.8 t@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 of which only 6.0%-7.9% was net primary production. Net ecosystem production ranged from 0.12-5.6 t@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1, entirely as an accumulation of woody detritus on the soil surface. Available evidence indicates larger peak biomass in seral P. menziesii than in climax Tsuga heterophylla forests. These communities may be in the process of declining from seral peak to steady-state climax biomass.
10.2307/1942494|Community organization of the arboreal birds in two oak woodlands of western North America was examined during the course of two breeding seasons. A @'natural experiment@' comparing the arboreal avifaunas inhabitating oak woodlands of similar tree structure in northeastern Sonora, Mexico (referred to as Purica), and in the central coastal mountains of California, USA (referred to as Carmel), was used to address questions concerning (1) variables that account for variation in foraging behavior, (2) overall similarity in foraging behavior of the two avifaunas, (3) partitioning of resources within each avifauna, (4) guild structure, (5) foraging heights, 6) changes in foraging behavior between sites, and (7) complementarity in resource use during foraging. At Purica there were 15 breeding species, and at Carmel 10 species. Foraging technique, portion of the tree, perch substrate and height, and the substrate from which food was derived during foraging were quantified with the aid of an audio metronome. The first three axes in a Principal Components Analysis (PCA) accounted for @?75% of the variation in foraging behavior at both sites, and were associated with technique, food site, and height. The rank order of the PCA loadings for all foraging variables on each PCA axis was highly correlated between Purica and Carmel, indicating that the overall pattern of foraging at both sites was very similar despite differences in avifaunal composition, density, and consuming biomass. Analysis of species breadth and overlap during foraging indicated that at both sites foraging specialization does not connote a decreased potential for species interactions. In addition, estimates of community breadth and overlap indicated that technique and food site were the most important foraging parameters in community organization at both sites. Three methods were used to develop the guild classification used in this paper: reciprocal averaging ordination, cluster analysis, and discriminant function analysis. At Purica five guilds were recognized: foliage gleaners, bark gleaners, bark probers, air salliers, and ground salliers. At Carmel four guilds were recognized: foliage gleaners, bark probers, air salliers, and ground salliers. In terms of relative guild consuming biomass (CB), foliage gleaners and bark gleaners at Purica together constitute 34% of the community. Interestingly, at Carmel a distinct bark gleaning guild is absent, and foliage gleaners constitute 32% of the community's CB. The proportion of community CB contributed by the other guilds was significantly different between sites. Although the possible functional roles performed within each community were similar (based on the kinds of guilds present), their guild structures were significantly different (based on the distribution of guild CB within each avifauna). The foraging space used by each of the guilds and the entire community was examined in detail. Foraging height of the birds was generally not related to the tree although both sites park probers derived most of their food from upper heights, foliage gleaners mostly from intermediate to upper heights, and ground salliers perched at intermediate heights. In contrast, air salliers at Purica usually perched at lower heights, while at Carmel they used upper heights most frequently. At Purica 50% of the compensatory shifts in foraging were consistent with predictions of competition-based hypotheses, whereas at Carmel none of the predictions was verified. Interspecific complementarity of resource use was demonstrated only marginally in air salliers at Purica. It is concluded that (1) the foraging behavior of some species at Purica, especially air salliers, is consistent with predictions from competition theory, although a lack of interspecific complementarity indicates that the competitive forces are rather weak, (2) at Carmel, opportunism appears to be more important in affecting the pattern of foraging behaviors, (3) other factors, especially ground cover, shrub density, and the local weather, have influenced foraging behavior and community structure at both sites, (4) similarity between sites in avian community structure is a consequence of the similarity in tree structure, whereas differences between sites probably result from short-term behavioral flexibility in microhabitat use in response to differences in prey distribution and abundance, and (5) interspecific competition is not a prerequisite for resource partitioning.
23206682|Dense vegetation bands aligned to contour levels and alternating at regular intervals with relatively barren interbands have been reported at the margins of all tropical deserts. Since their discovery in the 1950s, it has been supposed that these vegetation bands migrate upslope, forming a spacetime cyclic pattern. Evidence to date has been relatively sparse and indirect, and observations have remained conflicting. Unequivocal photographic evidence of upslope migration (a few decimeters per year) is provided here for three independent dryland areas exhibiting periodic banded pattern: (1) the U.S. northeastern Chihuahuan Desert, (2) the Somalian Haud, and (3) the Mediterranean steppes of eastern Morocco. Migration speeds, averaged through time and space using Fourier cross-spectral analysis, are shown to be directly proportional to pattern scale (wavelength). A sequence of aerial photographs of the Chihuahuan Desert showed that migration was not continuous, but intermittent in response to fluctuating weather regimes. The rates at which bands expanded upslope and contracted downslope were better predicted by the change in annual rainfall than by its average level. However, the migration of banded patterns cannot be considered as systematic because in our observations of three other banded systems located in the Somalian Haud, central Australia, and western New South Wales, migration was undetectable at the available image resolution. In each of the six sites under study, the modal value of band orientation axes was verified to be approximately orthogonal to the steepest slope. Our results underscore the importance of taking both the spatial structure and the past climate sequence into account for understanding vegetation dynamics in arid to semiarid ecosystems. In addition, we show how Fourier spectral analysis applied to historical series of optical images can serve to quantify landscape dynamics at a decadal time scale.
10.2307/1942255|Fourteen months' observations on hummingbird foraging patterns in successional habitats at Monteverde, Costa Rica, showed that one territorial species (Amazilia saucerottei) dominated rich resource clumps, modified all other species' patterns, and thus organized the nectarivorous bird guild. The principal nonterritorial species (Chlorostilbon canivetii), which Amazilia usually excluded from rich resources, traplined dispersed flowers and interfered with foraging patterns of other nonterritorial species. The 12 additional hummingbird species that foraged in the study habitats included species important in nearby communities, specialists on particular resources, and highly migratory opportunists. Foraging pattern diverged along several dimensions, including (1) the species or flower density of the individual plant; (2) the strata of flowers within the plant; and, since nectar was renewed at variable rates, (3) the time of day. Analysis of foraging patterns along these dimensions required that a hierarchy of niche breadth and overlap measures be defined and contrasted. Patterns compared over an entire year showed that the two principal species exploited the broadest niches, but overlapped only 17%. In no case did overall foraging patterns overlap more than 21%, and overlaps between many approached zero. These values, however, did not reveal the degree of exclusion from resources that were potentially exploitable, or the intensity of competition. Statistical correlations showed that most month-to-month changes in niche breadth, niche overlap, and population size could be attributed to shifts in the resource base. Of the 16 plant species exploited by hummingbirds, the forb Lobelia laxiflora and the tree Inga brenesii were responsible for most fluctuations in resource levels. Flowering peaks of both species attracted large numbers of hummingbirds; in general, numbers and diversity of hummingbirds rose with increased flower abundance rather than increased flower diversity. Lobelia nectar was effectively superabundant, and niche overlap during Lobelia peaks was high. Birds foraging in Inga trees, however, could diverge along spatial and diurnal dimensions, and overlap during Inga peaks was much lower. In between Lobelia and Inga peaks, the two principal hummingbird species usually dominated the guild, and expanded their niches but overlapped little. Each hummingbird species responded to that particular patterns of resource states it could best exploit, and the guild as a whole tracked the entire resource base. The cycle of resource flushes entrained these patterns to an annual rhythm.
10.2307/1942261|The modern forest of the Catskill Mountain region, New York, particularly the area within the New York State Forest Preserve, was studied and compared with the presettlement forest as determined from surveyors' records. The most notable changes were a marked drop in the proportion of beech (Fagus grandiflora) and hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) and increases in sugar maple (Acer saccharum), red oak (Quercus borealis), and chestnut oak (Quercus prinus). Reproduction and size-class data suggest that in old-growth hemlock stands hemlock is replaced by hardwoods and is not a part of a homogeneous climax forest in spite of its prominence in the presettlement forest. Beech does not give evidence, in the dynamics of the modern forest, of returning to its presettlement dominance. Some pioneer stands are as rich in species and as diverse as are those usually thought of as climax. The comparison of presettlement and recent forests is related to recent discussion of climax concept.
41739367|A recent theory of the vertical distribution of phytoplankton considers how interacting niche construction processes such as resource depletion, behavior, and population dynamics contribute to spatial heterogeneity in the aquatic environment. In poorly mixed water columns with opposing resource gradients of nutrients and light, theory predicts that a species should aggregate at a single depth. This depth of aggregation, or biomass maximum, should change through time due to depletion of available resources. In addition, the depth of the aggregation should be deeper under low amounts of nutrient loading and shallower under higher amounts of nutrient loading. Theory predicts total biomass to exhibit a saturating relationship with nutrient supply. A surface biomass maximum limited by light and a deep biomass maximum limited by nutrients or co-limited by nutrients and light is also predicted by theory. To test this theory, we used a motile phytoplankton species (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii) growing in cylindrical plankton towers. In our experiment, the resource environment was strongly modified by the movement, self-shading, nutrient uptake, and growth of the phytoplankton. Supporting predictions, we routinely observed a single biomass maximum at the surface throughout the course of the experiment and at equilibrium under higher nutrient loading. However, at equilibrium, low nutrient loading led to a non-distinct biomass maximum with the population distributed over most of the water column instead of the distinct subsurface peak predicted by theory. Also supporting predictions, total biomass across water columns was positively related to nutrient supply but saturating at high nutrient supply conditions. Further supporting predictions, we also found evidence of light limitation for a surface biomass maximum and nutrient limitation for the deep biomass when no surface maximum was present. In addition, the light level leaving the bottom of the water column declined through time as the phytoplankton grew and was negatively related to nutrient loading. Nutrients were strongly depleted where biomass was present by the end of the experiment. This experimental study shows that the vertical distribution of phytoplankton may be driven by intraspecific resource competition in space.
27806889|We examined short- and long-term nitrogen (N) dynamics and availability along an arctic hillslope in Alaska, USA, using a stable isotope of nitrogen ( 15 N), as a tracer. Tracer levels of 15 NH 4 + were sprayed once onto the tundra at six sites in four tundra types: heath (crest), tussock with high and low water flux (mid- and footslope), and wet sedge (riparian). 15 N in vegetation and soil was monitored to estimate retention and loss over a 3-year period. Nearly all 15 NH 4 + was immediately retained in the surface mossdetritusplant layer, and >57% of the 15 N added remained in this layer at the end of the second year. Organic soil was the second largest 15 N sink. By the end of the third growing season, the mossdetritusplant layer and organic soil combined retained 87% of the 15 N added except at the Midslope site with high water flux, where recovery declined to 68%. At all sites, non-extractable and nonlabile-N pools were the principal sinks for added 15 N in the organic soil. Hydrology played an important role in downslope movement of dissolved 15 N. Crest and Midslope with high-water-flux sites were most susceptible to 15 N losses via leaching, perhaps because of deep permeable mineral soil (crest) and high water flow (Midslope with high water flux). Late spring melt season also resulted in downslope dissolved- 15 N losses, perhaps because of an asynchrony between N release into melt water and soil immobilization capacity. We conclude that separation of the rooting zone from the strong sink for incoming N in the mossdetritusplant layer, rapid incorporation of new N into relatively recalcitrant-soil-N pools within the rooting zone, and leaching loss from the upper hillslope would all contribute to the strong N-limitation of this ecosystem. An extended snow-free season and deeper depth of thaw under warmer climate may significantly alter current N dynamics in this arctic ecosystem.
10.2307/2937143|Patterns of leaf characteristics, forest structure, tree species diversity, biomass, and productivity across a gradient of 3300 m and 15.7@?C in mean annual temperature in Kumaun, in the Indian central Himalaya, were summarized and compared to values from other similar forests. Throughout the elevational gradient, the annual rainfall was high (100-300 cm), but not correlated with elevation. Evergreen species with a 1-yr leaf life-span dominated most of the elevational transect; above 1800 m, species with deciduous and multiyear evergreen leaves were also well represented. Although variability among sites within forest types was high, a number of consistent patterns were apparent. Forests of Pinus roxburghii and those at high elevations were most consistently different from other forest types. Leaf life-span was not strongly correlated with leaf mass, specific leaf mass, or leaf production efficiency (net primary productivity per unit leaf mass), contrary to relationships presented in the literature. Tree species richness and basal area were lower than for most similar types in Nepal. Biomass and productivity of the forests in Kumaun were relatively high, compared to mean values for similar forest types elsewhere. Measured values for most variables describing these forests (but not all) fell within the ranges for the variables in similar forests worldwide. The maximal values for forest biomass remained high, 500-600 Mg/ha, up to 2600 m elevation, but declined sharply in birch forest (@?170 Mg/ha) above 3100 m. Net primary productivity (NPP) varied little (15-20 Mg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1) below 2700 m, despite a 10@?C gradient in mean annual temperature and marked changes in basal area, tree density, growth form, and leaf characters. The level of productivity appeared not to be limited by rainfall, forest structure, leaf type, or temperature above an annual mean of 11@?C. Leaf mass (LM) varied considerably among forest types, being 3.7-8.6 Mg/ha for deciduous species, 5.7-8.9 Mg/ha for P. roxburghii, and 10.0-28.2 Mg/ha for evergreen broad-leaved species. Leaf mass duration (leaf mass x months of the year with leaves present) was related directly to NPP and inversely to leaf production efficiency (NPP/LM). These data add substantially to the data base for forest properties, especially for broad-leaved evergreen forests.
27806884|Underlying dynamic event processes unfolding in continuous time give rise to spatiotemporal patterns that are sometimes observable at only a few discrete times. Such event processes may be modulated simultaneously over several spatial (e.g., latitude and longitude) and temporal (e.g., age, calendar time, and cohort) dimensions. The ecological challenge is to understand the dynamic latent processes that were integrated over several dimensions (space and time) to produce the observed pattern: a so-called inverse problem. An example of such a problem is characterizing epidemiological rate processes from spatially referenced age-specific prevalence data for a wildlife disease such as chronic wasting disease (CWD). With age-specific prevalence data, the exact infection times are not observed, which complicates the direct estimation of rates. However, the relationship between the observed data and the unobserved rate variables can be described with likelihood equations. Typically, for problems with multiple timescales, the likelihoods are integral equations without closed forms. The complexity of the likelihoods often makes traditional maximum-likelihood approaches untenable. Here, using seven years of hunter-harvest prevalence data from the CWD epidemic in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in Wisconsin, USA, we develop and explore a Bayesian approach that allows for a detailed examination of factors modulating the infection rates over space, age, and time, and their interactions. Our approach relies on the Bayesian ability to borrow strength from neighbors in both space and time. Synthesizing a number of areas of event time analysis (current-status data, age/period/cohort models, Bayesian spatial shared frailty models), our general framework has very broad ecological applicability beyond disease prevalence data to a number of important ecological event time analyses, including general survival studies with multiple time dimensions for which existing methodology is limited. We observed strong associations of infection rates with age, gender, and location. The infection rate appears to be increasing with time. We could not detect growth hotspots, or location by time interactions, which suggests that spatial variation in infection rates is determined primarily by when the disease arrives locally, rather than how fast it grows. We emphasize assumptions and the potential consequences of their violations.
4539107|In species with deferred breeding, the population can be viewed as composed of phenotypes with different underlying age of first breeding defined at birth. The distribution of underlying age of first breeding within cohorts and the realized distribution of age of recruitment in individuals that survived from birth to first breeding (assessed in the breeding segment of the population) may differ. Realized age of recruitment is governed by the product of two demographic components: [local survival probability from birth to age i - 1] x [transition probability from the "prebreeder" state to the "breeder" state between age i - 1 and i]. The usual approach to gain insight into selective pressures shaping age of recruitment is to address covariation of realized age of first breeding with population size or social and environmental factors. Ideally, one should also conduct comparisons among groups of individuals encountering different conditions at a given age as prebreeders. However, in many species with deferred breeding, individuals are not encountered between birth and first breeding. Consequently, approaches to estimating recruitment probability in the absence of data from prebreeders have been developed. Some of these measures of recruitment ignore variation in the size of the pool of prebreeders among groups (as opposed to transition probability). Unless survival before full recruitment is known to be identical in the groups, inferences about the causes of variation in realized age of first breeding among groups are difficult: such differences may result from differences in survival probability before all the individuals make the transition between states. We assessed the consequences of differences in prebreeding survival among groups on realized age-specific recruitment probability using numerical simulations. Depending on the specific scenario, realized age-specific breeding proportions were delayed or advanced compared to those expected according to the true underlying age-specific transition probabilities. We consider an example of this problem using data from a population of a seabird species, the kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla), where data from prebreeders and breeders were available. Consistent with results from our numerical simulations, we show that transition probabilities directly estimated (the underlying local recruitment probabilities) and those derived from analysis of data from the breeding segment of the population are different.
10.2307/1942249|A heuristic model, developed from simple assumptions, generates testable hypotheses that predict the foraging patterns of predators which invest a significantly greater amount of energy in search for, as compared to pursuit and handling of, prey. Given: (1) the environmental distribution of potential food size, (2) the environmental distribution of potential food diversity within food size, and (3) the manner in which the limits of consumable food size vary with predator size; food and microhabitat niche breadths as a function of predator size can be predicted. The assumptions and derived hypotheses of the model are tested with data from vermivorous prosobranch gastropods of the genus Conus, ubiquitous associates of tropical Pacific Ocean and Indian Ocean coral reefs. Predictions are: (1) small Conus (<10 mm shell length) are trophic specialists; (2) medium-sized Conus (10-25 mm shell length), trophic generalists; and (3) large Conus (> 25 mm shell length), trophic specialists. This pattern is supported by both within- and between-species comparisons of Conus populations of different mean sizes. Relationships of food niche breadth with predator size are interpreted in light of the marked behavioral and morphological stereotypy of Conus, probably evolved in response to evolutionary and proximate predictability of available prey.
10.2307/2937163|The usefulness and generality of the keystone species concept has recently been questioned. We investigated variation in interaction strength between the original keystone predator, the seastar Pisaster ochraceus, and its primary prey, mussels (Mytilus californianus and M. trossulus). The study was prompted by differences in community structure at two low zone sites along the central Oregon coast, Boiler Bay (BB) and Strawberry Hill (SH). Predators, especially seastars, were larger and more abundant at SH than at BB. Further, sessile animals were more abundant and macrophytes were less abundant at SH. Predators were more abundant at wave-exposed sites at both sites, and at SH, sessile invertebrates were more abundant at the wave-exposed location and sand cover was high at the wave-protected location. To test the hypothesis that variation in predation strength explained some of these differences, we examined the seastar-mussel interaction at locations with high and low wave exposure at both sites. Predation intensity was quantified by determining the survival of mussels in clumps (50 mussels per clump, shell length 4-7 cm) transplanted to large plots (18-163 m^2) with or without seastars in the low intertidal zone. Predation effects were quantified by determining prey recolonization rates in marked quadrats in the same large plots. Spatial variation in interaction strength was quantified by examining predation at scales of metres (among transplants within plots), 10's of metres (between replicate plots within each exposure at each site), 100's of metres (between wave exposures within locations), and 10 000's of metres (between sites). Temporal variation was evaluated by performing the experiments in 1990 and 1991. The relation between prey (mussel) recruitment and growth to differences in community structure was evaluated by quantifying recruitment density in plastic mesh balls (collectors) and growth of individually marked transplanted mussels, respectively, at each site @? exposure @? tide level combination each month for 4 yr. Predation intensity varied greatly at all spatial scales. At the two largest spatial scales (10's of kilometres, 100's of metres), differences in both survival of transplanted mussels and prey recolonization depended on variation in seastar abundance with site, wave exposure, prey recruitment and growth, and at SH protected, the extent of sand burial. Variation at the two smallest scales (metres, 10's of metres) was high when seastars were scarce and low when seastars were abundant. Transplanted mussels suffered 100% mortality in 2 wk at wave-exposed SH, but took >52 wk at wave-protected BB. Seastar effects on prey recolonization were detected only at the SH wave-exposed site. Here, where prey recruitment and growth were unusually high, the mussel M. trossulus invaded and dominated space within 9 mo. After 14 mo, whelks, which increased in both size and abundance in the absence of Pisaster, arrested this increase in mussel abundance. Similar changes did not occur at other site @? exposure combinations, evidently because prey recruitment was low and possibly also due to whelk predation on juveniles. Longer term results indicate that, as in Washington state, seastars prevent large adult M. californianus from invading lower intertidal regions, but only at wave-exposed, not wave-protected sites. Thus, three distinct predation regimes were observed: (1) strong keystone predation by seastars at wave-exposed headlands; (2) less-strong diffuse predation by seastars, whelks, and possibly other predators at a wave-protected cove, and (3) weak predation at a wave-protected site buried regularly by sand. Comparable experimental results at four wave-exposed headlands (our two in Oregon and two others in Washington), and similarities between these and communities on other West Coast headlands suggest keystone predation occurs broadly in this system. Results in wave-protected habitats, however, suggest it is not universal. In Oregon, keystone predation was evidently contingent on conditions of high prey production (i.e., recruitment and growth), while diffuse predation occurred when prey production was low, and weak predation occurred when environmental stress was high. Combining our results with examples from other marine and non-marine habitats suggests a need to consider a broader range of models than just keystone predation. The predictive and explanatory value of an expanded set of models depends on identifying factors distinguishing them. Although evidence is limited, a survey of 17 examples suggests (1) keystone predation is evidently not distinguished from diffuse predation by any of 11 previously proposed differences, but (2) may be distinguished by rates of prey production. Further, (3) differential predation on competitively dominant prey does not distinguish keystone from nonkeystone systems, since this interaction occurs in both types of community. Instead, differential predation on dominant prey evidently distinguishes strong-from weak-predation communities. While the keystone predation concept has been and will continue to be useful, a broadened focus on testing and developing more general models of community regulation is needed.
10.2307/1942455|Habitat and life history are critical elements in assessing the production dynamics of invertebrates and their role in aquatic ecosystems. We studied invertebrate productivity at two sites in a subtropical blackwater river (the Satilla) in the Lower Coastal Plain of Georgia, USA, and found that submerged wooden substrates, or snags, are heavily colonized by aquatic insects. We compared invertebrate productivity on the snag habitat with productivity in the sandy benthic habitat of the main channel, and the muddy benthic habitat of the backwaters. The size-frequency method was applied to individual taxa in order to determine total invertebrate productivity. Emphasis was placed on the importance of the length of larval life, or the cohort production interval, in determining biomass turnover rates. The diversity of taxa was much higher on the snag habitat than in either of the benthic habitats. Filter-feeding caddisflies (especially Hydropsyche spp.) and black flies (Simulium spp.) were the major consumers on the snag habitat. Several species of midges, mayflies, and beetles also were abundant. Total densities, standing stock biomass, and production were very high for primary consumers on snags. Annual production was 51.9 and 67.1 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 (dry mass per surface area of snag, or effective habitat) for the two sites. Hellgrammites, dragonflies, and stoneflies were the major insect predators colonizing snags, and their production was 5.5 and 5.2 g@mm^-^2@?yr^-^1 (effective habitat). Annual production/biomass ratios (P/B) were usually 5-10 for insects that had univoltine or bivoltine life cycles. Annual P/B estimates were very high for midges (>100) and black flies (>70), since length of larval life was estimated to be very short. The sandy-substrate benthos consisted almost exclusively of very small midges with oligochaetes of lesser abundance. Densities were quite high (>20 000/m^2), but biomass was very low (@? 100 mg/m^2 or less). Production of primary consumers was >11 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 with a very high estimate of annual P/B (166-227). The major predators were Ceratopogonidae (biting midges) larvae with an annual production of 1.6-2.6 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1. The muddy-substrate benthos consisted primarily of oligochaetes (Limnodrilus) and midges. Annual production was @?7-10 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 for primary consumers. The major predators were larger Tanypodinae midges. On a substrate surface area basis, standing stock biomass on snags was 20-50 times higher than in the sandy habitat and 5-10 times higher than in the muddy habitat. Production on snags was only 3-4 times higher than production in the benthic habitats, with higher annual P/B in the latter. The production estimates for the snag habitat are among the highest yet reported for lotic ecosystems, and it appears that production on snags is limited by available substrate. Habitat areas per length of shoreline were estimated so that we could approximate relative amounts of biomass and production for a stretch of river. Although the snag habitat accounted for only @?6% of the effective habitat substrate over a stretch of river, it was responsible for over half of invertebrate biomass, and @?15-16% of production. Taxa within each habitat were categorized to functional feeding groups, and habitat-specific functional groupings were evaluated using numbers, biomass, and production. Filtering collectors predominated on snags, and gathering collectors in benthic habitats. When corrected for habitat abundance, the distribution of biomass among filtering collectors, gathering collectors, and predators was very close. However, the distribution of production was @?12% filtering collectors, 71% gathering collectors, and 17% predators. We suggest that production is the most meaningful parameter to consider in functional group analysis and that the use of numbers or biomass alone can sometimes result in misleading conclusions. As a middle order (5th-6th) stream, the distribution of production or biomass among functional groups in the Satilla River differs considerably from that predicted by the river continuum concept, predicting a high percentage of grazing consumers.
10.2307/1942480|Sebastes carnatus and Sebastes chrysomelas are morphologically and ecologically similar residents of rocky reefs off the coast of California. They segregate bathymetrically, with S. chrysomelas occurring shallower than S. carnatus. Each species extended its depth distribution where its congener was removed, and no distributional changes occurred in a control area. Thus both species tolerated conditions beyond their normal depth ranges, and were limited in part of their normal depth ranges by interspecific competition. Their segregation was apparently initiated by the preferential settlement of young fish from the plankton, S. chrysomelas in shallow water and S. carnatus deeper. Their segregation was maintained by interspecific territoriality. The distribution of S. chrysomelas, the socially dominant species, may also have been affected by a strong preference for food-rich areas that occurred mainly in shallow water. I postulate that such a preference would be due to the advantage of smaller home ranges in shallow water, where strong wave surge makes the shelter hole a more important part of a fish's territory. This postulated preference, along with aggression from S. carnatus, limited S. chrysomelas to shallow water. Because of its social dominance, S. chrysomelas aggressively excluded S. carnatus from preferred areas in shallow water.
10.2307/1943043|A method is described, using Generalized Linear Modelling, for determining the qualitative environmental realized niche (QERN) of plant species. Five species of Eucalyptus growing in south-eastern Australia are used as examples. The frequency of each species occurrence in a data set comprising 6080 observations over an area of @?40 000 km^2 is modelled as a function of four environmental variables: mean annual rainfall, mean annual temperature, a solar radiation index, and rock type. The position and shape of the response of a species to these four variables is the species' QERN. The effect of rock type on the distribution of each species was found to be highly significant. To reduce model complexity, the data were stratified on rock type, and models for each species were generated for the two common rock types, granites and soft sediments. Whilst the model-fitting procedure generally is the same, each species' response demanded some modifications of the procedure. The continuous variates, mean annual temperature, mean annual rainfall, and solar radiation index, were categorized so that the magnitude of the model coefficients from each category would indicate the shape of each species' response. Continuous functions were then fitted to the categorical response shapes. Of the 10 models (5 species and 2 rock types) 5 revealed a skewed response to one or more of the environmental variables, one was linear, and two were bell shaped. Two more models revealed complex response shapes, suggesting that the environmental variables were inappropriate or insufficient to model those species' realized niches. The results provide evidence for asymmetric responses of species to environmental variables contrary to the bell-shaped symmetrical responses commonly assumed in ecological theory. Models of species' realized niches are necessary in community ecology to describe the role of environment, prior to studies on the role of competition in determining community composition. Limitations of the models, both statistical and ecological, are considered, with suggestions for improvements.
10.2307/3100025|Understanding the way regional landscapes operate, evolve, and change is a key area of research for ecosystem science. It is also essential to support the "place-based" management approach being advocated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and other management agencies. We developed a spatially explicit, process-based model of the 2352 km
10.2307/1942582|The carbon, phosphorus, and water cycles of a subtropical floodplain forest, and related ecosystem characteristics, were studied. Located at 750 m elevation in Puerto Rico (latitude 18@?N) the forest had 27 tree species, 3059 stems/ha, a basal area of 42.4 m^2/ha, maximum height of 17 m, and a leaf area index of 3.3. Palm (Prestoea montana) dominated the forest, and, with two other species, accounted for 68% of the dominance. Throughfall, stemflow, interception, runoff, transpiration, and evapotranspiration accounted for 81.6, 9.8, 8.6, 77.7, 13.7, and 22.3% of annual rainfall (3725 mm) respectively. The stand carbon storage was 28.77 kg/m^2, distributed as follows: aboveground 35.4%, vegetation 44.2%, soil to 1 m depth 55%, palms 10.9%. Vegetation biomass was partitioned as follows: leaves 9.8% (75% are palm leaves), wood 68%, and roots 21.8%. Net aboveground primary carbon productivity (NPP) was 876 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1. Average litterfall was 2.4 g@?m^-^2@?d^-^1 (palm leaves 32%, other leaves 39%, and wood 10%). Half-lives of decaying material were 188, 306, 462, and 576 d, respectively, for palm leaves still attached to the parent tree, dicotyledonous leaves, palm leaves on the ground, and palm trunks. Total organic carbon concentrations in stream water increased with increasing stream discharge (from 2 g/m^3 to 30 g/m^3). Watershed export of carbon was 50 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 (including 12 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 in the form of leaf litter). Mean P concentration in palm leaves (1.18 mg/g) was twice that in dicotyledonous leaves (0.64 mg/g). Compared to a rainfall phosphorus input to the watershed of 63 mg@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1, leaching from the canopy was high (167 mg@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1), as was the loss of P from the watershed (611 mg@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1). Phosphorus-conserving mechanisms included a high rate of retranslocation in palms (504 mg@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1). In spite of these mechanisms, there was a net P loss from the watershed that ranged from 136 to 544 mg@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1. Periodic flooding, poor soil aeration, intensive year-round rainfall, and low atmospheric saturation vapor pressure deficits are believed to be the main driving forces of the floodplain forest, which exhibits many characteristics typical of lowland rain forests and floodplain wetlands. Rates of NPP, litterfall, and biomass turnover (residence time of 14-17 yr) are faster than expected for the climatic conditions, whereas rates of wood production and storage of organic matter in the vegetation and soil profile are lower than expected for the climate.
23047555|Various ecological mechanisms influence the forms of species richness relationships (SRRs). These mechanisms can be gathered under five general categories: more individuals, environmental heterogeneity, dispersal limitations, biotic interactions, and multiple species pools. Often only the first two categories are discussed. In contrast, we examine all five and explore how they can influence the form of SRRs. We discuss how various sampling schemes and methods of SRR construction can be used to gain insight about how various processes influence species richness patterns. The field is ripe for probing these effects through more complex simulation models or more sophisticated mathematical approaches. To facilitate deeper understanding, we need to embrace the full spectrum of SRRs and reconsider the assumed common knowledge about the functional form of SRRs. The relationship between species richness and the space or time over which it is sampled has received increasing attention over the past decade, resulting in extensive debates about terminology and methods of construction. These debates reflect deep conceptual issues; to resolve them we discuss the long history of species richness relationships (SRRs) and the connections among different methodological and terminological approaches. We reinforce recent calls to organize the variety of methods used to construct SRRs into a cohesive structure. SRRs are descriptors of various aspects of inventory (- and -) diversity and the various types of SRRs serve different purposes. Contrary to most claims, SRRs do not provide a direct measure of differentiation (-) diversity.
4539085|Enhancement of soil nitrogen (N) cycling by grazing has been observed in many grassland ecosystems. However, whether grazing affects the activity only of the key microbial functional groups driving soil N dynamics or also affects the size (cell number) and/or composition of these groups remains largely unknown. We studied the enzyme activity, size, and composition of five soil microbial communities (total microbial and total bacterial communities, and three functional groups driving N dynamics: nitrifiers, denitrifiers, and free N
20787438|Aerosols have always been part of the atmosphere, and plant surfaces are a major aerosol sink. Given the nutrient content of aerosols and the natural stability of aerosol concentrations over evolutionary time, plants may have developed adaptations to aerosol input. Although little is known about such adaptations, leaf surface micro-roughness appears to play a key role. This review focuses on the deposition and fate of fine aerosols that are less than 2.5 m in diameter. Most of these aerosols are hygroscopic, and they are often deliquescent (liquid) on transpiring leaves. Such concentrated solutions may be taken up by both the cuticle and stomata, contradicting previous concepts. The establishment of a continuous liquid water connection along stomatal walls affects individual stomata and is a new concept called "hydraulic activation of stomata" (HAS). HAS enables the efficient bidirectional transport of water and solutes between the leaf interior and leaf surface and makes stomatal transpiration partly independent of stomatal aperture. The response of plants to changes in humidity can be explained by the split transpiration in an HAS pore and its interaction with neighboring stomata, i.e., as an emergent property of a stomatal patch. Normally, HAS affects only a few stomata, but if too many are activated by excessive particle accumulation or additional surfactants, hygroscopic particles may work as "desiccants," reducing the drought tolerance of plants. This is made use of when hygroscopic salts and acids are sprayed to kill potato vine, but may cause problems in foliar fertilization. Excessive particle accumulation may also be caused by air pollution. It is hypothesized that deliquescent hygroscopic particles, due to their amorphous appearance, may have been misinterpreted as "degraded waxes." Degraded waxes have been highly correlated to leaf loss, decreased drought tolerance, and decreased frost tolerance of trees. No sound explanation for degraded waxes has been found, and they have been interpreted as symptoms of forest decline. Because hygroscopic particles may affect the drought tolerance of trees, they could be drivers of regional tree die-off and especially affect those trees that have adapted to capture aerosols. Several research questions are identified.
41739376|Despite the importance of litter decomposition for ecosystem fertility and carbon balance, key uncertainties remain about how this fundamental process is affected by nitrogen (N) availability. Resolving such uncertainties is critical for predicting the ecosystem consequences of increased anthropogenic N deposition. Toward that end, we decomposed green leaves and senesced litter of northern pin oak (Quercus ellipsoidalis) in three forested stands dominated by northern pin oak or white pine (Pinus strobus) to compare effects of substrate N (as it differed between leaves and litter) and externally supplied N (inorganic or organic forms) on decomposition and decomposer community structure and function over four years. Asymptotic decomposition models fit the data equally well as single exponential models and allowed us to compare effects of N on both the initial decomposition rate (k a ) and the level of asymptotic mass remaining (A, proportion of mass remaining at which decomposition approaches zero, i.e., the fraction of slowly decomposing litter). In all sites, both substrate N and externally supplied N (regardless of form) accelerated the initial decomposition rate. Faster initial decomposition rates corresponded to higher activity of polysaccharide-degrading enzymes associated with externally supplied N and greater relative abundances of Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria associated with green leaves and externally supplied organic N (assessed using phospholipid fatty acid analysis, PLFA). By contrast, later in decomposition, externally supplied N slowed decomposition, increasing the fraction of slowly decomposing litter (A) and reducing lignin-degrading enzyme activity and relative abundances of Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria. Higher-N green leaves, on the other hand, had lower levels of A (a smaller slow fraction) than lower-N litter. Contrasting effects of substrate and externally supplied N during later stages of decomposition likely occurred because higher-N leaves also had considerably lower lignin, causing them to decompose more quickly throughout decomposition. In conclusion, elevated atmospheric N deposition in forest ecosystems may have contrasting effects on the dynamics of different soil carbon pools, decreasing mean residence times of active fractions in fresh litter (which would be further reduced if deposition increased litter N concentrations), while increasing those of more slowly decomposing fractions, including more processed litter.
10.2307/2963475|This paper presents the biotic, sedimentary, geomorphic, and climatic history of the upper part of the Roberts Creek Basin, northeastern Iowa for the late-glacial and Holocene, and compares these records with a C-O isotopic sequence from Coldwater Cave, 60 km northwest of Roberts Creek. The biotic record (pollen, vascular plant and bryophyte macrofossils, and insects) is preserved in floodplain alluvium that underlies three constructional surfaces separated by low scarps. Each surface is underlain by a lithologically and temporally distinct alluvial fill. The highest surface is underlain by the Gunder Member of the Deforest Formation, dating from 11 000 to 4000 yr BP; beneath the intermediate level is the Roberts Creek Member, dating from 4000 to 400 yr BP; and the lowest level is underlain by the Camp Creek Member, deposited during the last 380 yr. Pollen and plant macrofossils in the alluvial fill show that a typical late-glacial spruce forest was replaced by Quercus and Ulmus in the early Holocene. This early-to-middle Holocene forest became dominated by mesic elements such as Acer saccharum, Tilia americana, Ostrya virginiana, and Carpinus caroliniana as late as 5500 yr BP; in contrast, the closest sites to the west and north were at their warmest and driest and were covered by prairie vegetation between 6500 and 5500 yr BP. After 5500 yr BP, the forest in the Roberts Creek area was replaced by prairie, as indicated by a rich assemblage of plant macrofossils, although only Ambrosia and Poaceae became abundant in the pollen record. The return of Quercus  3000 BP (while nonarboreal pollen percentages remained relatively high) indicates that oak savanna prevailed with little change until settlement time. The bryophyte assemblages strongly support the vascular plant record. Rich fen species characteristic of boreal habitats occur only in the late-glacial. They are replaced by a number of deciduous-forest elements when early-to-middle Holocene forests were present, but mosses of forest habitats completely disappear when prairie became dominant. A few deciduous-forest taxa return during the late-Holocene, when oak savanna prevailed. The C-O isotopic record from stalagmite "s" in Coldwater Cave indicates a relatively stable environment from  8000 to 5100 yr BP, when the 
10.2307/1942556|The objectives of this study were to measure larval growth and mortality rates in a butterfly population and to determine how these rates vary locally in space and time. The survivorship and growth rates of 1353 Papilio polyxenes larvae, placed on natural food plants in typical habitats, were followed during both generations of 1973 and 1974. In each year and generation, cohorts of first instar larvae were set out on three commonly used host-plant species and at two elevations. Larvae reaching the fifth instar were returned to the laboratory, where the surviving pupae gave rise to 87 adults. Together with estimates of egg mortality in the field (50%) and the sex ratio of emerging adults (50/50), this result indicates that females must lay at least 60 eggs, on average, to replace themselves once in the next generation. Stage-specific mortality rates (q"x) averaged 0.59, 0.33, 0.35, and 0.41 for the first four instars, respectively, approximating a Type II survivorship curve (constant mortality rate). Both the shapes of survivorship curves and the probability of reaching the fifth instar were highly variable from one treatment to another, however, providing a heterogeneous pattern of survivorship in space and time Survivorship was greater in 1973 than in 1974, probably due to different weather conditions; it was greater at high-elevation than at low-elevation sites; and it was greater on wild carrot, Daucus carota, and on parsnip, Pastinaca sativa, than on poison hemlock, Conium maculatum. Survivorship of larvae placed artificially did not differ from that of larvae hatching from wild-laid eggs on the same host species at the same time and place. Arthropod predators attacking larvae included spiders as well as hemipterans of the families Nabidae, Reduviidae, Coreidae, and Pentatomidae. Parasitoids emerging from larvae or pupae belonged to the families Phoridae, Tachinidae, Ichneumonidae, and Braconidae. Our results, supplemented by predator-exclusion experiments in 1977, indicate that predation is the major source of larval mortality, small (arthropod) predators having the greatest impact on younger larvae and large (vertebrate) predators the greatest impact on older stages. Larvae grew faster in 1973 than in 1974, probably because of more favorable weather in 1973. Growth was faster at low- than at high-elevation sites and markedly faster on poison hemlock than on wild carrot or parsnip. Unpredictability of larval survivorship in space and time is likely to favor widely spaced oviposition by P. polyxenes females. Such behavior may also be favored by variability in larval growth rates, since adult emergence times may be crucial to the reproductive success of surviving male progeny.
23596922|Bark beetles are a key forest disturbance agent worldwide, with their impact shaped by climate, forest susceptibility, and interactions with other disturbances such as windthrow and fire. There is ample evidence of the interactions among these factors at small spatial and temporal scales, but projecting their long-term and landscape-scale impacts remains a challenge. We developed a spatially explicit model of European spruce bark beetle (Ips typographus) dynamics that incorporates beetle phenology and forest susceptibility and integrated it in a climate-sensitive landscape model (LandClim). We first corroborated model outputs at various spatial and temporal scales and then applied the model in three case studies (in the Black Forest, Germany, and Davos, Switzerland) that cover an extended climatic gradient. We used this model and case study framework to examine the mechanisms and feedbacks that are driving short-term and long-term interactions among beetle disturbance, climate change, and windthrow, and how they may shift in the future. At the current cold-wet end of the Norway spruce (Picea abies) distribution, climate change is projected to increase temperature and drought, such that beetles become a more dominant disturbance agent. At the warm-dry end of the spruce distribution, where, under current climate, beetle outbreaks are confined to the simultaneous occurrence of drought and windthrow, the simulated level of drought alone sufficed for triggering beetle outbreaks, such that elevated drought- and beetle-induced spruce mortality would negatively feed back on beetle disturbance in the long term. This would lead to receding beetle populations due to the local extinction of Norway spruce. These results suggest that, depending on initial environmental conditions, climate change may shift the importance of direct and indirect drivers of disturbances. These shifts may affect the sign and strength of cross-scale disturbance interactions and may impact the costbenefit trade-off between beetle suppression and preventive management strategies.
10.2307/1942367|The stream limpet Ferrissia rivularis, which occurs extensively in North America and is ubiquitous in streams of upper New York State, was studied from two distinct populations, one located in the Canandaigua Outlet at Alloway, N. Y. (AL) and the other in Black Creek at Cleveland, N. Y. (BC). These environments differ substantially, that at AL being the more eutrophic. At BC there is one generation per year, but at AL there are two generations per year and more rapid growth rates. Thirteen months is the adult life span for BC limpets, whereas at AL 11 and 3 months are normal for spring and summer adults respectively. At BC 8.4 eggs per limpet are laid, and 34.8 eggs per limpet are laid by spring adults at AL. Biomass and egg production are assessed as total carbon (equivalent to calorific measures) and expressed as biomass-turnover rates (growth and egg production). Egg-production rates can be double those for growth at AL; at BC egg-production rates are usually less than those for growth. This is partly a consequence of greater primary productivity at AL, but may also reflect implied genetic differences. Limpets at BC build up carbon during late summer and early fall; an increase in the C:N ratio (to 4.8) indicates an accumulation of storage compounds. During the winter (lower temperature, solar input, and primary productivity) the C:N ratio decreases, and during spring breeding there is a more marked loss of carbon associated with egg laying. In field-acclimated BC animals, respiration is lowest during the winter; during the spring, respiratory rate is closely correlated with temperature and egg-laying intensity. Oxygen-consumption measurements at 10@? and 20@?C for all seasons reveal that these limpets show reverse acclimation at low temperature (qualitative and quantitative downward adjustment of metabolism). This acclimation pattern is accompanied by a decrease in Q"1"0 (3.3 to 2.1) which can act to dampen the effects of winter temperature fluctuations. Energy balance (respiration, growth, egg production) is expressed as rates of carbon turnover for the population at BC. Respiration rates are greatest during the summer and spring and reflect increased assimilation due to growth or reproduction or both. The total carbon turnover per year is approximately 1.25 g/m^2. Data on energy balance emphasize the adaptive importance of reverse acclimation at times of low energy input.
43187600|Species' geographic range limits interest biologists and resource managers alike; however, scientists lack strong mechanistic understanding of the factors that set geographic range limits in the field, especially for animals. There exists a clear need for detailed case studies that link mechanisms to spatial dynamics and boundaries because such mechanisms allow us to predict whether climate change is likely to change a species' geographic range and, if so, how abundance in marginal populations compares to the core. The bagworm Thyridopteryx ephemeraeformis (Lepidoptera: Psychidae) is a major native pest of cedars, arborvitae, junipers, and other landscape trees throughout much of North America. Across dozens of bagworm populations spread over six degrees of latitude in the American Midwest we find latitudinal declines in fecundity and egg and pupal survivorship as one proceeds toward the northern range boundary. A spatial gradient of bagworm reproductive success emerges, which is associated with a progressive decline in local abundance and an increase in the risk of local population extinction near the species' geographic range boundary. We developed a mathematical model, completely constrained by empirically estimated parameters, to explore the relative roles of reproductive asynchrony and stage-specific survivorship in generating the range limit for this species. We find that overwinter egg mortality is the biggest constraint on bagworm persistence beyond their northern range limit. Overwinter egg mortality is directly related to winter temperatures that fall below the bagworm eggs' physiological limit. This threshold, in conjunction with latitudinal declines in fecundity and pupal survivorship, creates a nonlinear response to climate extremes that sets the geographic boundary and provides a path for predicting northward range expansion under altered climate conditions. Our mechanistic modeling approach demonstrates how species' sensitivity to climate extremes can create population tipping points not reflected in demographic responses to climate means, a distinction that is critical to successful ecological forecasting.
10.2307/2937350|A size-classified transition matrix model of the demography of Arisaema triphyllum, a perennial herb of temperate deciduous forest, was constructed from 3 yr of field data from two different sites. Arisaema is quite unusual in that individuals change sex in a pattern determined by their sizes: small individuals do not flower, larger individuals reproduce as males, and the largest as females. As plants increase or decrease in size, they also may change sex. Though demographic parameters varied with the site and with the year, some consistent patterns were seen Mortality rates ranged from 20 to 40%/yr for small, nonflowering plants, but decreased to much lower levels as plants reached reproductive size. For these large plants, mortality rates did not differ between sexes or among size-classes. Because rates of sexual reproduction were severely pollinator limited, levels of seed production were low (averaging 7 seeds@?female^-^1@?yr^-^1) and were not correlated with plant size. All plants engaged in clonal reproduction, regardless of their size. Transition matrices based on these data were compared statistically and were found to vary in time, as a result of year-to-year environmental variability. No population had achieved a stable size distribution. The classical method of calculating rate of increase, @l, was therefore rejected, and an alternative method incorporating temporal stochasticity substituted. A sensitivity analysis was performed to evaluate the effect on population growth of changing various life history parameters. Differences in rates of individual growth and of clonal reproduction were found to be largely responsible for the relative success of the two populations, one of which was increasing, the other declining. Arisaema's status as a climax-forest herb suggests that temporally varying transition matrices might be common even in environments traditionally regarded as @'stable.@' The prevalence of temporal variability has consequences both for the future direction of demographic theory and for the design and analysis of field studies.
10.2307/2937116|Variation in leaf life-span has long been considered of ecological significance.Despite this, quantitative evaluation of the relationships between leaf life-span and other plant and ecosystem characteristics has been rare. In this paper we ask whether leaf life-span is related to other leaf, plant, and stand traits of species from diverse ecosystems and biomes. We also examine the interaction between leaf, plant, and stand traits and their relation to productivity and ecological patterns. Among all species, both mass- (A"m"a"s"s) and area-based (A"a"r"e"a) maximum net photosynthesis decreased with increasing leaf life-span, but the relationship was stronger on a mass (P <.001, r^2 = 0.70) than an area (P <.05, r^2 = 0.24) basis. Similarly, mass-based leaf nitrogen (leaf N"m"a"s"s) decreased (P <.001, r^2 = 0.52) with leaf life-span, but area-based leaf N (leaf N"a"r"e"a) did not (P >.25, r^2 = 0.01). Specific leaf area (SLA, leaf area/leaf dry mass) and leaf diffusive conductance also decreased with increasing leaf life-span. Decreasing A"m"a"s"s with increasing leaf life-span results from the impact of decreasing N"m"a"s"s and SLA on A"m"a"s"s. Variation in leaf traits as a function of leaf life-span was similar for broad-leaved and needle-leaved subsets of the data. These leaf-scale data from several biomes were compared to a data set from a single biome, Amazonia. For several leaf traits (e.g., SLA, N"m"a"s"s, and A"m"a"s"s) the quantitative relationship with leaf life-span was similar in the two independent data sets, suggesting that these are fundamental relations applicable to all species. A"m"a"s"s was a linear function of N"m"a"s"s (P .001, r^2 = 0.74) with a regression similar to previous analyses, while A"a"r"e"a was not significantly related to N"a"r"e"a. These results suggest that the photosynthesis-leaf N relationship among species should be considered universal when expressed on a mass, but not on a leaf area, basis. Relative growth rates (RGR) and leaf area ratio (LAR, the whole-plant ratio of leaf area to total dry mass) of seedlings decreased with increasing leaf life-span (P < .001, r^2 = 0.61 and 0.89, respectively). LAR was positively related to both RGR and A"m"a"s"s (r^2 = 0.68 and 0.84, respectively), and A"m"a"s"s and RGR were also positively related (r^2 = 0.55). Absolute height growth rates of young trees decreased with increasing leaf life-span (P < .001, r^2 = 0.72) and increased with A"m"a"s"s (P < .001, r^2 = 0.78). It appears that a suite of traits including short leaf life-span and high leaf N"m"a"s"s, SLA, LAR, and A"m"a"s"s interactively contribute to high growth rates in open-grown individuals. These traits interact similarly at the stand level, but stands differ from individuals in one key trait. In closed-canopy forests, species with longer lived foliage (and low LAR as seedlings) have greater foliage mass per unit ground area (P < .001, r^2 = 0.74) and a greater proportion of total mass in foliage. The aboveground production efficiency (ANPP/foliar biomass) of forest stands decreased markedly with increasing leaf life-span or total foliage mass (P < .001, r^2 = 0.78 and 0.72, respectively), probably as a result of decreasing A"m"a"s"s, N"m"a"s"s, and SLA, all of which were positively related with production efficiency and negatively related to total foliage mass. However, high foliage mass of species with extended leaf life-spans appears to compensate for low production per unit foliage, since aboveground net primary production (ANPP, in megagrams per hectare per year) of forest stands was not related to leaf life-span. Extended leaf life-span also appears to compensate for lower potential production per unit leaf N per unit time, with the result that stand-level N use efficiency is weakly positively related to leaf life-span. We hypothesize that co-variation among species in leaf life-span, SLA, leaf N"m"a"s"s, A"m"a"s"s, and growth rate reflects a set of mutually supporting traits that interact to determine plant behavior and production, and provide a useful conceptual link between processes at short-term leaf scales and longer term whole plant and stand-level scales. Although this paper has focused on leaf life-span, this trait is so closely interrelated with several others that this cohort of leaf traits should be viewed as casually interrelated. Generality in the relationships between leaf life-span and other plant traits across diverse communities and ecosystems suggests that they are universal in nature and thus can provide a quantitative link and/or common currency for ecological comparisons among diverse systems.
10.2307/1942347|Fish populations in a first-order, a second-order, and a third-order stream were studied during the summers of 1967-68. The primary food of each fish species was determined. Available food sources included terrestrial invertebrates, aquatic primary production, aquatic invertebrates, aquatic vertebrates, and detritus. Average daily growth rates showed that age-group I fish of most species grew faster in early than in late summer. The growth rate of most age-group II fish varied little between these seasons. Total numbers, total standing crop, and gross production were estimated for each species in each order. Total production was compared among stream orders on a per linear meter basis. Production values were nearly equal in first (2.35 g dry weight per linear meter) and second order (2.36), but increased in third order (3.29). The relative importance of terrestrial invertebrates as an energy source decreased with increasing stream order. Aquatic primary production and aquatic invertebrates began to be utilized as energy sources in second order. The aquatic vertebrates and detritus began to be utilized in third order. The relative importance of aquatic primary production utilization increased in third order, but the relative importance of aquatic invertebrate utilization was approximately the same as in second order. The community structure of the fish populations of each pool was analyzed the information theory and the ratio H/H"m"a"x. Community structure differed between third-order and second-order pools even when the same species complement was present. It is postulated that stream order in most cases represents a biological unit which can be subdivided into microhabitats based on riffle, pool, type of substrate, etc., and addition in most cases proceeds by discrete units of stream order.
3100075|We integrated experimental and natural gradient field methods to investigate effects of climate change and variability on flowering phenology of 11 subalpine meadow shrub, forb, and graminoid species in Gunnison County, Colorado (USA). At a subalpine meadow site, overhead electric radiant heaters advanced snowmelt date by 16 d and warmed and dried soil during the growing season. At three additional sites, a snow removal manipulation advanced snowmelt date by 7 d without altering growing season soil microclimate. We compared phenological responses to experimental climate change with responses to natural microclimate variability across spatial gradients at small and landscape scales, as well as across a temporal gradient from a separate study. Both manipulations significantly advanced timing of flowering for the group of species and for most species individually, closely paralleling responses of timing to natural spatial and temporal variability in snowmelt date. Snowmelt date singularly explained observed shifts in timing only in the earliest flowering species, Claytonia lanceolata. Among all other species except Artemisia tridentata var. vaseyana, the latest flowering species, a consistent combination of temperature-related microclimate factors (earlier snowmelt date, warmer soil temperatures, and decreased soil degree-days) substantially explained earlier timing. Both manipulations also extended flowering duration for the group of species, similar to species' responses to natural snowmelt variability at small spatial scales. However, only early flowering species displayed consistent, significant changes in duration, with extended duration related to earlier snowmelt or warmer spring soil temperatures. Soil moisture was generally not a significant explanatory factor for either timing or duration of flowering. Best-fit microclimate models explained an average of 82% of variation in timing but only 38% of variation in duration across species. Our research demonstrates the value of comparing and synthesizing results of multiple field methods within a single study. This integrated approach makes it easier to identify robust community-wide trends, as well as species-specific responses of phenology to climate change. The predicted short-term flowering phenology responses to temperature-related aspects of climate change may lead to longer term asynchronies in interspecific interactions, potentially altering population and evolutionary dynamics, community structure, and ecosystem functioning.
23206684|Paleoecological records indicate that subalpine forests in western North America have been resilient in response to multiple influences, including severe droughts, insect outbreaks, and widely varying fire regimes, over many millennia. One hypothesis for explaining this ecosystem resilience centers on the disruption of forest dynamics by frequent disturbance and climatic variability, and the resulting development of non-steady-state regimes dominated by early-successional conifers with broad climatic tolerances, such as lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia Engelm. ex Wats.). To evaluate this hypothesis, we independently reconstructed the vegetation, fire, and effective-moisture histories of a small, forested watershed at 2890 m elevation in southeastern Wyoming, USA, using sedimentary pollen and charcoal counts in conjunction with sedimentary lake-level indicators. The data indicate that prominent vegetation shifts (from sagebrush steppe to sprucefir parkland at ca. 10.7 ka and sprucefir parkland to pine-dominated forest at ca. 8.5 ka [ka stands for thousands of years before the present, defined as AD 1950]) coincided with changes in effective moisture. However, after lodgepole pine forests established at ca. 8.5 ka, similar hydroclimatic changes did not produce detectable vegetation responses. Fire history data show that other aspects of the ecosystem were responsive to changes in effective moisture at centennial timescales with prolonged fire-free episodes coinciding with periods of low effective moisture ca. 7.25.6 and 3.71.6 ka. Throughout our record, the ratio of ecosystem perturbation time (i.e., fire frequency and changes in effective moisture) to recovery time (assuming 200600-year successional processes) falls within estimates of the ratio for non-steady state ecosystems. Frequent perturbations, therefore, may have prevented this ecosystem from reaching compositional equilibrium with the varied climatic conditions over the past 8.5 ka. Equilibrium states could have included more abundant spruce (Picea spp.) and fir (Abies spp.) than presently observed based on brief increases in pollen abundances of these taxa during prolonged dry, fire-free intervals. Our results show that, although current climate changes favor widespread disturbance in Rocky Mountain forests, the composition of these ecosystems could be highly resilient and recover through successional dynamics over the next few decades to centuries.
10.2307/1942620|Field metabolic rates (FMRs or H"F), all measured using doubly labeled water, of 23 species of eutherian mammals, 13 species of marsupial mammals, and 25 species of birds were summarized and analyzed allometrically (log"1"0-log"1"0 regressions). FMR is strongly correlated with body mass in each of these groups. FMR scales differently than does basal or standard metabolic rate in eutherians (FMR slope = 0.81) and marsupials (FMR slope = 0.58), but not in birds (FMR slope - 0.64 overall, but 0.75 in passerines and 0.75 in all other birds). Medium-sized (240-550 g) eutherians, marsupials, and birds have similar FMRs, and these are @?17 times as high as FMRs of like-sized ectothermic vertebrates such as iguanid lizards. For endothermic vertebrates, the energy cost of surviving in nature is enormous compared with that for ectotherms. Within the eutherians, marsupials, or birds, FMR scales differently for the following subgroups: rodents, passerine birds, herbivorous eutherians, herbivorous marsupials, desert eutherians, desert birds, and seabirds. Equations are given for use in predicting daily and annual FMR and food requirement of a species of terrestrial vertebrate, given its body mass.
4539059|Puerto Rico is subject to frequent and severe impacts from hurricanes, whose long-term ecological role must be assessed on a scale of centuries. In this study we applied a method for reconstructing hurricane disturbance regimes developed in an earlier study of hurricanes in New England. Patterns of actual wind damage from historical records were analyzed for 85 hurricanes since European settlement in 1508. A simple meteorological model (HURRECON) was used to reconstruct the impacts of 43 hurricanes since 1851. Long-term effects of topography on a landscape scale in the Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF) were simulated with a simple topographic exposure model (EXPOS). Average return intervals across Puerto Rico for F0 damage (loss of leaves and branches) and F1 damage (scattered blowdowns, small gaps) on the Fujita scale were 4 and 6 years, respectively. At higher damage levels, a gradient was created by the direction of the storm tracks and the weakening of hurricanes over the interior mountains. Average return intervals for F2 damage (extensive blowdowns) and F3 damage (forests leveled) ranged from 15 to 33 years and 50 to 150 years, respectively, from east to west. In the LEF, the combination of steep topography and constrained peak wind directions created a complex mosaic of topographic exposure and protection, with average return intervals for F3 damage ranging from 50 years to >150 years. Actual forest damage was strongly dependent on land-use history and the effects of recent hurricanes. Annual and decadal timing of hurricanes varied widely. There was no clear centennial-scale trend in the number of major hurricanes over the historical period.
10.2307/1942346|The energy requirements for a population of kangaroo rats in the Mojave Desert were estimated indirectly. Energy expenditure for maintenance was 84.1 megacal ha^-^1yr^-^1. Total energy expenditure for growth was 1.4 megacal ha^-^1yr^-^1, half of which was secondary productivity. Secondary productivity was 0.8% of the total energy flow. This percentage of the total energy flow is lower than for nondesert rodents and may be due to the low productivity of the desert areas in which D. merriami is found. The diet of D. merriami contained an average of 75% seeds. Green herbage formed 35% of the diet during the winter quarter. Kangaroo rats showed a high preference index for Erodium cicutarium seeds, which were larger and had a higher caloric value than the seeds of other annual plants. The average assimilation efficiency was 0.87 for the natural diet. Estimates indicated that kangaroo rats consumed 97.8 megacal ha^-^1yr^-^1, 99% of which was from the primary production. Total net primary production (NPP) on the study area was only 1,400 megacal ha^-^1yr^-^1; of this, 900 megacal ha^-^1yr^-^1 was considered to be available to D. merriami. Kangaroo rats consumed 6.9% of the NPP. This is higher than for any other rodent populations that have been studied and is probably due to the large proportion of available production (AP) in the total primary production (64%). The population consumed 10.7% of AP, which is high when compared to most other rodent species. The high consumption efficiency for D. merriami may be an adaptation to areas of low production, or it may be simply the result of high densities of kangaroo rats in areas of low production. Dipodomys merriami consumed over 95% of the estimated Erodium production and 90% of the total Erodium production. It is estimated that the rats consumed a sufficient number of Erodium seeds in 1970 to reduce the density of that plant by more than 30% in 1971. The D. merriami population was on the brink of overexploitation of its food sources and was potentially food limited. It is probable that desert herbivores in general are food limited since productivity in the desert is so variable.
27646061|Despite experimental evidence showing that elevated CO2 levels increase growth in most plants, the isolation of a signal consistent with anthropogenically caused increases in atmospheric CO2 from the dendrochronological record has shown mixed results. Our extensive sets of tree ring data from the Ozark Mountains in Missouri showed that since 1850, Quercus velutina Lam., Quercus coccinea Muench., and Pinus echinata Mill. trees increased in stem growth coincidently with increases in atmospheric CO2. Those long-term increases in radial growth appear unrelated to historical disturbance levels for the region, to long-term changes in relevant climatic variables, or to productivity of sites sampled for the purpose of creating a time sequence of tree ring growth. It is still unclear what the potential role of nitrogen deposition might have been for tree growth. We cross-dated a large number of increment cores and aligned the ring width data by pith date for accurate age constant assessments of growth over the past 150 years. Thus, we circumvented changes in growth trend associated with differences in physiological functioning during development, as well as the need for statistical detrending that removes an unknown degree of long-term environmental signal, the so called segment length curse that applies to standard dendrochronological investigations. When the positive relationship between CO2 and ring width was examined at different ages, an ontogenetic decline in the rate of growth stimulation was found. Specifically, both the pooled Quercus spp. and P. echinata were characterized by a negative exponential pattern of response over a developmental sequence through age 50. Further knowledge of an intrinsic decline in CO2 sensitivity with tree age or size such as this may be important for increased accuracy in estimating terrestrial carbon stocks across successional landscapes.
4539066|Models represent our primary method for integration of small-scale, process-level phenomena into a comprehensive description of forest-stand or ecosystem function. They also represent a key method for testing hypotheses about the response of forest ecosystems to multiple changing environmental conditions. This paper describes the evaluation of 13 stand-level models varying in their spatial, mechanistic, and temporal complexity for their ability to capture intra- and interannual components of the water and carbon cycle for an upland, oak-dominated forest of eastern Tennessee. Comparisons between model simulations and observations were conducted for hourly, daily, and annual time steps. Data for the comparisons were obtained from a wide range of methods including: eddy covariance, sapflow, chamber-based soil respiration, biometric estimates of stand-level net primary production and growth, and soil water content by time or frequency domain reflectometry. Response surfaces of carbon and water flux as a function of environmental drivers, and a variety of goodness-of-fit statistics (bias, absolute bias, and model efficiency) were used to judge model performance. A single model did not consistently perform the best at all time steps or for all variables considered. Intermodel comparisons showed good agreement for water cycle fluxes, but considerable disagreement among models for predicted carbon fluxes. The mean of all model outputs, however, was nearly always the best fit to the observations. Not surprisingly, models missing key forest components or processes, such as roots or modeled soil water content, were unable to provide accurate predictions of ecosystem responses to short-term drought phenomenon. Nevertheless, an inability to correctly capture short-term physiological processes under drought was not necessarily an indicator of poor annual water and carbon budget simulations. This is possible because droughts in the subject ecosystem were of short duration and therefore had a small cumulative impact. Models using hourly time steps and detailed mechanistic processes, and having a realistic spatial representation of the forest ecosystem provided the best predictions of observed data. Predictive ability of all models deteriorated under drought conditions, suggesting that further work is needed to evaluate and improve ecosystem model performance under unusual conditions, such as drought, that are a common focus of environmental change discussions.
4539075|We present a likelihood-based regression method that was developed to analyze the effects of neighborhood competitive interactions and hurricane damage on tree growth and survival. The purpose of the method is to provide robust parameter estimates for a spatially explicit forest simulator and to gain insight into the processes that drive the patterns of species abundance in tropical forests. We test the method using census data from the 16-ha Luquillo Forest Dynamics Plot in Puerto Rico and describe effects of the spatial configuration, sizes, and species of neighboring trees on the growth and survival of 12 dominant tree species representing a variety of life history strategies. Variation in size-dependent growth and mortality suggests a complex relationship between size, growth, and survival under different regimes of light availability. Crowding effects on growth and survival appear to be idiosyncratic to each individual species, and with the exception of pioneers, there is little commonality among species that share similar life histories. We also explain the implications of differential susceptibility to hurricane damage on species' growth and survival and on their ability to respond to damage to neighboring trees. Tree species in the Luquillo Forest Dynamics Plot differ strikingly in both their susceptibility to hurricane disturbance and the nature of their recovery from wind disturbance, through response of both adult plants and juveniles to enhanced resource availability. At the stand level, intense competitive thinning of densely packed saplings that grew after hurricane damage accounted for the majority of post-hurricane mortality, particularly for shade-intolerant species. At the individual species level, effects of previous hurricane damage on growth and survival depended primarily on variation in the quantity and quality of hurricane damage sustained by target species and their interaction with life history characteristics of these individual species. Finally, we compare models that make different assumptions about the effects of competing species on tree growth and survival (e.g., equivalence of competitors vs. distinct species-specific effects). Size effects alone could not account for growth and survival for the majority of target species. Our results also demonstrate that competing species have distinct per capita effects on growth of dominant target species. In contrast, we found moderate support for a model that assumed functional equivalence of competitors on survival.
10.2307/1943060|Lunar reproductive cycles are common among marine animals. Most hypotheses concerning the adaptive nature of such cycles consider the effects of the tidal regime or moonlight on the dispersal of planktonic eggs or hatchlings away from adult habitats. We determined the reproductive periodicity of 17 paternal-brooding reef fishes at three neotropical sites with different tidal regimes. We used these and published data to assess the explanatory potential of hatchling-dispersal hypotheses, and of other larval-biology and adult-biology hypotheses. Among the 17 species (15 damselfishes and two blennies), two of which we studied at two sites, we found 14 with lunar and semilunar spawning cycles, one sporadically synchronized spawner, two acyclically variable spawners, and one continuous spawner. In 16 species individual nests experienced frequent alternation of short brood-care and rest periods (brood cycling). Simple hatchling-biology hypotheses are unable to account readily for the range of variation in the types, precision, and lunar timing of spawning cycles among species within and between depth zones at the same site, or for intra- and interspecific variation in spawning patterns in relation to seasonal and geographic differences in tidal regimes. The hypothesis that lunar spawning cycles have evolved to maximize the availability of relatively uniform-age larvae that settle during preferred lunar settlement times is supported by some but not all data. Adult-biology hypotheses can account for the higher frequency of lunar spawning cycles among brooders than nonbrooders, and can accommodate various patterns of reproductive cyclicism and synchronization in brooders. Synchronized activity may be favored in some brooders because colonial spawning provides enhanced defense against egg predators. Further, the cost of brood care may result in reduced egg survivorship, and both brood cycling and the temporal concentration of spawning may reduce egg losses by allowing males to recuperate and increasing benefits to brood-care for them. Adult-biology constraints may produce variability in spawning patterns. Differences in social systems may determine the ability to form nesting colonies, and to strongly synchronize spawning independently of lunar cues. Changes in short-term food availability may influence the regularity of spawning. Adult-biology hypotheses represent generally underemphasized alternatives that have at least as much explanatory potential as larval-biology hypotheses. If hatchling biology is of general importance to paternal brooders, there must be considerably more interspecific variability in hatchling ecology than is generally assumed.
27646104|Coral bleaching due to thermal and environmental stress threatens coral reefs and possibly people who rely on their resources. Here we explore patterns of coral bleaching and mortality in East Africa in 1998 and 2005 in a region where the equatorial current and the island effect of Madagascar interact to create different thermal and physicochemical environments. A variety of temperature statistics were calculated, and their relationships with the degree-heating months (DHM), a good predictor of coral bleaching, determined. Changes in coral cover were analyzed from 29 sites that span >1000 km of coastline from Kenya to the Comoros Islands. Temperature patterns are influenced by the island effect, and there are three main temperature environments based on the rise in temperature over 52 years, measures of temperature variation, and DHM. Offshore sites north of Madagascar that included the Comoros had low temperature rises, low DHM, high standard deviations (SD), and the lowest relative coral mortality. Coastal sites in Kenya had moderate temperature rises, the lowest temperature SD, high DHM, and the highest relative coral mortality. Coastal sites in the south had the highest temperature rises, moderate SD and DHM, and low relative coral mortality. Consequently, the rate of temperature rise was less important than background variation, as reflected by SD and kurtosis measures of sea surface water temperature (SST), in predicting coral survival across 1998. Coral bleaching responses to a warm-water anomaly in 2005 were also negatively related to temperature variation, but positively correlated with the speed of water flow. Separating these effects is difficult; however, both factors will be associated with current environments on the opposite sides of reefs and islands. Reefs in current shadows may represent refugia where corals acclimate and adapt to environmental variation, which better prepares them for rising temperature and anomalies, even though these sites are likely to experience the fastest rates of temperature rise. We suggest that these sites are a conservation priority and should be targeted for management and further ecological research in order to understand acclimation, adaptation, and resilience to climate change.
10.2307/2937077|The temporal and spatial dynamics of tree populations in coastal forests of southeastern Long Island, New York, were reconstructed from analyses of (1) historical accounts, maps, and aerial photos, (2) field evidence of forest history (3) age and height class distributions along the moisture gradient, and (4) fossil-pollen content of bordering salt-marsh deposits. Tide-gauge records of sea level provided independent evidence for long-term change in the physical environment (rise in sea level) that caused populations to migrate up the continental shelf. Field evidence for fire and historically documented land-use change demonstrated the important role of disturbance in the dynamics of tree populations. Spatial and temporal patterns in forest, were determined by information on disturbance frequency, dispersal, generation times, and rates of change in the physical environment. Mature cohorts occupied lower elevations than did their progeny because during the period from germination to seed production, suitable soil-moisture conditions shifted upslope in response to sea-level rise. Establishment of new regeneration depended on disturbances that opened the forest canopy and/or prepared seed beds. Frequent fire, land clearance and abandonment, and tree blowdowns insured opportunities for seedling establishment at higher elevations as conditions became unsuitable for regeneration on low-elevation sites. The resultant pattern of range shifts was stepwise, with waves of regeneration following disturbances and subsequent reduced seedling establishment as soil moisture continued to increase. The vegetation dynamics could be explained solely on the basis of life histories of plant species and environmental change; @'emergent properties@' and @'successional stages@' in a deterministic sense were not apparent. An understanding of successional change required information on both the spatial and temporal dimensions of vegetation pattern because composition change over time resulted from range shifts in response to environmental transition.
10.2307/2937180|We grew four perennial grass species (Poa pratensis, Agropyron repens, Agrostis scabra, and Schizachyrium scoparium) for 5 yr in monocultures and in pairwise competition plots on an experimental nitrogen gradient. The gradient contained plots ranging from 100% sand to 100% black soil, plus plots that received additional N fertilizer. To examine the impact of initial conditions on the long-term outcome of interspecific competition, three competitive situations were created: seed vs. seed competition (both species planned simultaneously), seed invasions (each species added as seed to year-old monocultures of the other), and vegetative invasions (dividers separating adjacent monocultures of two species removed after 1 yr). Extractable soil NO"3^- and NH"4^+ were measured to test if species differences in the concentration of available soil N in monoculture (i.e., R* for N, Tilman 1982) could predict the long-term outcome of competition. By year 5, Schizachyrium displaced or greatly reduced the biomass of both Poa and Agropyron on the soil mixture gradient (the mixed soils but not the added-N plots) independent of the wide range of starting conditions. On these soils, Schizachyrium monocultures had significantly lower soil concentrations of both NO"3^- and NH"4^+ than either Poa or Agropyron monocultures. Similarly, Agropyron displaced or greatly reduced the biomass of Agrostis by year 5. Agropyron monocultures had significantly lower concentrations of NO"3^- and NO"3^- + NH"4^+, but not NH"4^+, than Agrostis monocultures. In contrast, no competitive displacement occurred in competition between Poa and Agropyron, and initial differences persisted over 5 yr. Monocultures of these two species did not differ in NO"3^- concentration, but did differ for NH"4^+ and NO"3^- + NH"4^+. Thus, species differences in ability to deplete soil NO"3^- successfully predicted the outcome of competition for all four species pairs on the soil mixture gradient. If resource preemption or asymmetric competition had been the mechanism of competition, initial conditions would have affected the long-term outcome of competition. Rather, these results support the R* (i.e., resource reduction) model for competition for soil N. In the added-N fertilizer plots, Schizachyrium had decreased biomass in competition with both Poa and Agropyron. However, neither Agropyron nor Poa appeared to have an advantage when they competed with each other in the added-N plots. For these three species pairs, the 5-yr results of competition in the added-N plots, which had greatly reduced light availability because of increased production and litter accumulation, depended on initial conditions. In the fourth pair, Agrostis was displaced by Agropyron in all competition treatments in the added-N plots. Thus, we cannot reject the hypothesis that resource preemption (i.e., asymmetric competition) is important in light competition.
27646083|Climate warming is expected to differentially affect CO2 exchange of the diverse ecosystems in the Arctic. Quantifying responses of CO2 exchange to warming in these ecosystems will require coordinated experimentation using standard temperature manipulations and measurements. Here, we used the International Tundra Experiment (ITEX) standard warming treatment to determine CO2 flux responses to growing-season warming for ecosystems spanning natural temperature and moisture ranges across the Arctic biome. We used the four North American Arctic ITEX sites (Toolik Lake, Atqasuk, and Barrow [USA] and Alexandra Fiord [Canada]) that span 10 of latitude. At each site, we investigated the CO2 responses to warming in both dry and wet or moist ecosystems. Net ecosystem CO2 exchange (NEE), ecosystem respiration (ER), and gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) were assessed using chamber techniques conducted over 24-h periods sampled regularly throughout the summers of two years at all sites. At Toolik Lake, warming increased net CO2 losses in both moist and dry ecosystems. In contrast, at Atqasuk and Barrow, warming increased net CO2 uptake in wet ecosystems but increased losses from dry ecosystems. At Alexandra Fiord, warming improved net carbon uptake in the moist ecosystem in both years, but in the wet and dry ecosystems uptake increased in one year and decreased the other. Warming generally increased ER, with the largest increases in dry ecosystems. In wet ecosystems, high soil moisture limited increases in respiration relative to increases in photosynthesis. Warming generally increased GEP, with the notable exception of the Toolik Lake moist ecosystem, where warming unexpectedly decreased GEP >25%. Overall, the respiration response determined the effect of warming on ecosystem CO2 balance. Our results provide the first multiple-site comparison of arctic tundra CO2 flux responses to standard warming treatments across a large climate gradient. These results indicate that (1) dry tundra may be initially the most responsive ecosystems to climate warming by virtue of strong increases in ER, (2) moist and wet tundra responses are dampened by higher water tables and soil water contents, and (3) both GEP and ER are responsive to climate warming, but the magnitudes and directions are ecosystem-dependent.
27646109|Data characteristics and species traits are expected to influence the accuracy with which species' distributions can be modeled and predicted. We compare 10 modeling techniques in terms of predictive power and sensitivity to location error, change in map resolution, and sample size, and assess whether some species traits can explain variation in model performance. We focused on 30 native tree species in Switzerland and used presence-only data to model current distribution, which we evaluated against independent presenceabsence data. While there are important differences between the predictive performance of modeling methods, the variance in model performance is greater among species than among techniques. Within the range of data perturbations in this study, some extrinsic parameters of data affect model performance more than others: location error and sample size reduced performance of many techniques, whereas grain had little effect on most techniques. No technique can rescue species that are difficult to predict. The predictive power of species-distribution models can partly be predicted from a series of species characteristics and traits based on growth rate, elevational distribution range, and maximum elevation. Slow-growing species or species with narrow and specialized niches tend to be better modeled. The Swiss presence-only tree data produce models that are reliable enough to be useful in planning and management applications.
27646127|Salix phylicifolia responds to moose browsing with an intra-individual plant response. This plantanimal system is characterized by complex changes in plant chemistry and plant morphology which in turn lead to differences in feeding strategies of future consumers. I postulate that the willow Salix phylicifolia has developed a two-level strategy which results in two different types of twigs (new annual shoots) after moose browsing in winter. This strategy enables the plant to protect reproductive organs by offering two chemically different twigs to herbivores, with catkins concentrated on the less preferred twigs. In addition, it may enable plants to grow out of the reach of browsers. New growth of browsed and unbrowsed twigs on the same individual willow differed in morphology and chemical composition (intra-individual response). New growth from browsed twigs had lower concentrations of individual phenolics, a higher biomass (twigs and leaves), and lower concentrations of nitrogen in leaves than the new growth of unbrowsed twigs. This response resulted in a positive feedback loop for moose, which typically rebrowsed the new growth of browsed twigs, whereas the new growth of unbrowsed twigs was avoided. This feeding behavior was consistent for leaf stripping by moose in summer and pruning of twigs in winter. I found no differences in the feeding behavior of herbivorous insects on the leaves growing on the new annual shoots of either browsed or unbrowsed twigs. The new growth of unbrowsed twigs, which were protected by different specific phenolics, had more catkins than the new growth of browsed twigs. In an interindividual comparison, the number of catkins on browsed willows was reduced. Hence, browsing has an impact on willow reproduction and pollinators. Consequently, large herbivores such as moose are likely to be a driving force in shaping patterns of plant response and plant and consumer communities.
40385217|Forests are often subject to multiple, compounded disturbances, representing both natural and human-induced processes. Predicting forest dynamics requires that we consider how these disturbances interact to affect species demography. Here we present results of an individual-based, spatially explicit forest simulator that we developed to analyze the compounded effects of hurricane disturbance and land use legacies on the dynamics of a subtropical forest. We used data from the 16-ha Luquillo Forest Dynamics Plot in Puerto Rico, together with a reconstruction of historical wind damage, to parameterize the simulator. We used the model to ask two questions. (1) What are the implications of variation in hurricane frequency and severity for the long-term dynamics of forest composition, diversity, and structure? Both storm severity and frequency had striking effects on forest dynamics, composition, and structure. The periodicity of disturbance also played an important role, with periods of high hurricane activity fostering the establishment of species that may become rare in the absence of severe storms and quiescent periods allowing these species to reach reproductive size. Species responses to hurricane disturbance could not be predicted from their life history attributes. However, species perceived to be primary forest species exhibited low temporal variation in abundance through the simulations. (2) How do hurricanes and legacies from human land use interact to determine community structure and composition? Our results suggest that, over time, regardless of the storm regime, land use legacies will become less apparent but will lead to a forest community that contains a mixture of secondary and primary forest species formerly dominant in areas of different land use. In the long term, hurricane disturbance generated two communities with slightly greater similarity than those not subject to storms. Thus, the inclusion of hurricane disturbance does not alter the prediction that land use legacies in this tropical forest will diminish over time. Our simulations also highlight the contingent effects of human legacies on subsequent community dynamics, including the response to hurricane disturbance, therefore supporting the notion that compounded disturbances can interact in ways that cannot be predicted by the study of single disturbances. The widespread importance of land use as a large-scale disturbance makes it imperative that it be addressed as a fundamental ecological process.
10.2307/1942636|Mathematical models and empirical studies have revealed two potentially disruptive influences on ecosystems; (1) instabilities caused by nonlinear feedbacks and time-lags in the interactions of biological species, and (2) stochastic forcings by a fluctuating environment. Because both of these phenomena can severely affect system survival, ecologists are confronted with the question of why complex ecosystems do, in fact, exist. Our study analyzes the basic themes of this research and identifies five general hypotheses that, in recent years, theoretical ecologists have built into models to increase their stability against disruptive feedback and stochasticity. To counter feedback instabilities, theoreticians have considered (1) functional interactions between species that act as stabilizers, (2) disturbance patterns that interrupt adverse feedback effects, and (3) the stabilizing effect of integrating small-spatial-scale systems into large landscapes. To decrease the influence of stochasticity, modelers have hypothesized (4) compensatory mechanisms operating at low population densities, and (5) the moderating effect of spatial extent and heterogeneity. We show that modeling based on these ideas can be organized in a systematic way. We also show that the stable equilibrium state should not be viewed as a fundamental property of ecological systems, but as a property that can emerge asymptotically from extrapolation to sufficiently large spatial scales.
10.2307/2937092|The mechanisms structuring benthic stream communities composed largely of highly mobile taxa are poorly known. I studied the role of competition in structuring the benthic community of hard substrates in a coldwater stream dominated by mobile insects that grazed upon periphyton and by relatively sessile filter-feeding insects. I expected competitive interactions among periphyton grazers to be significant and chronic because the community was not subject to frequent flow-related disturbances and grazer densities were high despite consistently low periphyton availability. Laboratory and field experiments were performed to determine: (1) the potential for, and relative strengths of, competition within and between two common, widely distributed grazers, and caddisfly Glossosoma nigroir and the mayfly Baetis tricaudatus, (2) the role of Glossosoma in affecting the organization of the community, and (3) the mechanisms of competition. Strong intraspecific effects on Baetis survivorship were observed in laboratory enclosures within the range of natural densities, but interspecific effects were not detected. Glossosoma survivorship was not affected by competition with itself or with Baetis. Individuals of both species experienced significant intra- and interspecific effects on growth, but the relative strengths of these effects differed between species. The effects of Baetis on Glossosoma growth were stronger than the effects of Glossosoma on itself. In contrast, Baetis growth was much less affected by the presence of Glossosoma than by conspecifics. Both species strongly depressed periphyton abundance, indicating that observed competitive effects resulted, in part, from exploitation. Exclusion of Glossosma from habitats in the field resulted in a marked increase in periphyton biomass throughout a 10-mo study in which the movements of other taxa were not restricted. Most periphyton grazers responded to this increase in resource availability with increased densities in the Glossosoma exclusion treatment relative to the control. The size distributions of several chironomid grazers suggested that larval growth rates were greater in the absence of Glossosoma than with Glossosoma present. The larvae of two relatively small-bodied filter-feeders (Simulium, Rheotanytarsus) responded positively to the removal of Glossosoma, but larger bodied species (Hydropsyche, Brachycentrus) were not affected. There was not strong evidence for seasonal variation in the intensity of competition. Effects of Glossosoma on filter-feeders appeared to result from a form of interference competition, but there was no evidence for the operation of interference among grazers. Glossosoma had no effect on the colonization of habitats by grazers, and the feeding rates of Baetis and Glossosoma were not affected by the presence of conspecifics or heterospecifics. Contrasting patterns in periphyton abundance between the laboratory and field experiments suggest that, when their movements are unrestricted, Baetis departs periphyton patches at higher food densities than does Glossosoma to search for food elsewhere. Thus, strong competitive effects of Baetis on Glossosoma in the laboratory experiments resulted, in part, from limited Baetis dispersal in the enclosures. Baetis and Glossosoma appear to exhibit trade-offs in feeding efficiency and the costs of exploiting food patches that should help to ensure their coexistence on a spatially variable food resource. Results of this study suggest that the structure of benthic communities in coldwater streams composed largely of mobile taxa may often be strongly influenced by Glossosoma. A similar role has been observed for sessile, territorial grazers in other systems. Glossosoma's dominance does not result from aggressive behavior, but from physiological, behavioral, and life cycle attributes that allow it to regulate periphyton biomass throughout the year.
23596911|Most colonially breeding animals occupy colonies that range in size from a few pairs to thousands of individuals, but the causes of colony size variation are largely unknown. Three general hypotheses are: (1) that variation in colony size is maintained by fluctuating selection via spatial and temporal changes in fitness associated with different colony sizes; (2) that colony formation reflects heterogeneity in habitat, with some sites having resources to support more individuals than others; and (3) that individuals assess the presence or annual reproductive success of current colony residents at each site and aggregate preferentially at high-quality sites. These hypotheses make predictions about how consistent colony size should be across sites and among years. We examined temporal and spatial variability of colony size for >200 Cliff Swallow (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) colony sites in western Nebraska across a 30-year period. A colony's substrate type, annual population size in the study area, and whether the nesting season was relatively warm or cool, influenced average annual colony size. While some Cliff Swallow colony sites hosted perennially large colonies and others perennially small ones, between-year variability in colony size at most sites was high. Annual colony size distributions were relatively stable over 30 years and provided no evidence for long-term directional changes in colony size. The only ecological characteristic that was strongly associated with Cliff Swallow colony size at a site was the type of nesting substrate, with bridges tending to have larger colonies and being more frequently occupied than other substrates. Some sites showed annual changes in colony size consistent with the birds' basing their choice of colony on the presence or success of conspecifics, but many sites did not conform to a pattern expected if coloniality is a by-product of traditional aggregation. Colony size in Cliff Swallows was temporally and spatially unpredictable when viewed across the 30 years of this study. Each of the three hypotheses to explain size variation may have applied at certain sites, but the pattern of colony size variability leant the most support to the hypothesis that fluctuating selection on group size maintains colonies of widely different sizes.
10.2307/1943005|The frequency of natural disturbances and their influence on the forest landscape mosaic were investigated on three large tracts of primary forest in Upper Michigan. Seventy 0.5-ha plots were randomly distributed in a total forest area of 23 000 ha dominated by sugar maple (Acer saccharum) and eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis). Radial increment patterns were used to estimate canopy accession dates for each of a number of randomly selected overstory trees on each plot. From these data a disturbance chronology, representing the percentage of stand area occupied by cohorts originating during each decade over the last 130 yr, was compiled for each plot. Average rates of disturbance or canopy mortality are estimated at 5.7 to 6.9% per decade. The corresponding average canopy residence time of a tree is 145-175 yr. No significant differences were detected in average disturbance rates among the three study areas, between plots near the coast of Lake Superior and inland plots, among several different aspects, and among several different slope positions. Natural rotation periods increase exponentially with increasing disturbance intensity, which is defined as the approximate percentage of the plot area converted to gaps during a disturbance episode. Estimates of rotation periods range from 69 yr for @>10% canopy removal to 1920 yr for @>60% canopy removal. Spatial autocorrelation analysis indicated that plots with light and medium disturbances (<40%) are randomly distributed over the landscape. Plots wit heavy disturbances (@>40%) are clustered with a patch radius of @?2 km, consistent with the sizes of thunderstorm downbursts. The data indicate that light and medium disturbances dominate the disturbance regime. The majority of stands on the landscape are composed of several major and many minor age classes. Even-aged stands with one predominant age class are uncommon. The age distribution of individual patches or cohorts in the two larger study areas (14 500 and 6073 ha) follows a nearly uniform distribution. None of the three study areas had more than 15% of the forest area converted to gaps in a single decade. The two larger areas meet most of the criteria that have been proposed for equilibrium landscapes.
43188342|Large-herbivore migrations occur across gradients of food quality or food abundance that are generally determined by underlying geographic patterns in rainfall, elevation, or latitude, in turn causing variation in the degree of interspecific competition and the exposure to predators. However, the role of top-down effects of predation as opposed to the bottom-up effects of competition for resources in shaping migrations is not well understood. We studied 30 GPS radio-collared wildebeest and zebra migrating seasonally in the Serengeti-Mara ecosystem to ask how prdation and food availability differentially affect the individual movement patterns of these co-migrating species. A hierarchical analysis of movement trajectories (directions and distances) in relation to grass biomass, high-quality food patches, and predation risk show that wildebeest tend to move in response to food quality, with little attention to predation risk. In contrast, individual zebra movements reflect a balance between the risk of predation and the access to high-quality food of sufficient biomass. Our analysis shows how two migratory species move in response to different attributes of the same landscape. Counterintuitively and in contrast to most other animal movement studies, we find that both species move farther each day when resources are locally abundant than when they are scarce. During the wet season when the quality of grazing is at its peak, both wildebeest and zebra move the greatest distances and do not settle in localized areas to graze for extended periods. We propose that this punctuated movement in highquality patches is explained by density dependency, whereby large groups of competing individuals (up to 1.65 million grazers) rapidly deplete the localized grazing opportunities. These findings capture the roles of predation and competition in shaping animal migrations, which are often claimed but rarely measured.
27646129|Adaptive plasticity at switch points in complex life cycles (e.g., hatching, metamorphosis) is well known, but the evolutionary history of such plasticity is not. Particularly unclear is how a single plastic response (e.g., shifts in hatching timing) evolves to respond to different threats and cues (e.g., abiotic and biotic). We conducted a comparative phylogenetic study of hatching plasticity in a group of frogs with arboreal embryos to determine when risk-accelerated hatching evolved in the clade, whether responses to two common egg-stage risks (snake predation and flooding) evolved independently, and whether the overall capacity for hatching plasticity was evolutionarily more conservative than responses to specific cues. Red-eyed treefrogs (Agalychnis callidryas) hatch early to escape from several egg-stage risks but otherwise hatch later, improving larval survival with predators. We reconstructed a phylogeny for Agalychnis and related genera based on three mitochondrial and four nuclear genes. We quantified onset of hatching competence, spontaneous hatching timing, responses to egg-stage risks, and costs of premature hatching in Agalychnis and Pachymedusa. We also assessed hatching plasticity in a basal phyllomedusine, Cruziohyla calcarifer. The capacity to hatch 30% before the spontaneous hatching age appears ancestral for phyllomedusines, with little change over 3450 million years among the species examined. A strong hatching response to flooding, with no mortality of hatching-competent eggs, is similarly ancient and conserved. Premature hatchlings of Agalychnis and Pachymedusa are more vulnerable to fish predation than are full-term hatchlings, indicating a conserved risk trade-off across hatching that would make plasticity advantageous. In contrast, the hatching response to snake attack has undergone major changes at least twice in the AgalychnisPachymedusa clade, with two species showing substantially lower escape success than the others. Responses to different threats have thus evolved independently. The capacity for switch point plasticity may be evolutionarily more stable than the response to individual stage-specific threats.
10.2307/1942319|The design of the life cycle of pin cherry (Prunus pensylvanica L.), a successional species common on disturbed sites throughout much of the northern hardwood and boreal forest ecosystems, assures that its occurrence is integrated into the pattern of disturbance in the climax ecosystem. The combination of buried seed strategy and the mobility offered through avian consumption of fruits ensures reasonably large populations of buried, viable seeds in the soils of forests well after the disappearance of pin cherry from a particular site. Soil sampling data indicate that sufficient numbers of viable pin cherry seeds reside in the soils of second-growth forests in central New Hampshire to account for the dense stands frequently observed after cutting or burning. Further, germination of these buried seeds is apparently triggered by some factor(s) associated with formation of a large gap. By age 25 or 30, when pin cherry individuals are dying rapidly, sufficient numbers of seeds have been produced and disseminated in a dormant condition for the cycle to renew itself with the subsequent occurrence of major disturbance. In high density stands pin cherry grows rapidly, with early attainment of canopy closure (high leaf area index), and rapid attainment of high values of net annual production and nutrient accumulation.
10.2307/2937285|We monitored woody plant seed deposition, seedling emergence, and the survival and growth of seedlings (i.e., plants @<0.5 m tall regardless of age) in an East Texas river floodplain forest from 1979 through 1984. In addition, we estimated the relative importance of flooding, drought, fungal attack, herbivory, proximity to a conspecific adult, and shade in causing seedling mortality. Tree species fell into two major groups on the basis of their demographic characteristics and responses to unfavorable conditions. The first group was composed of heavy-seeded species, of which water oak (Quercus nigra) was the primary example. They produced few seeds, but had high seedling survival. Seedlings of these species emerged late in the summer, thereby avoiding peak periods of flooding and damping-off mortality. Seedling survival was little affected by drought, herbivory, or proximity to a conspecific adult. The second group included most of the common tree species (e.g., ironwood, Carpinus caroliniana; sweetgum, Liquidambar styraciflua; red maple, Acer rubrum; American elm, Ulmus americana). They produced large crops of light seeds which dispersed throughout the study area. In these species, seedling survival was low for the 1st yr, but increased substantially thereafter. Flooding, drought, damping-off, proximity to a conspecific adult, and herbivory were important causes of 1st-yr seedling mortality. for these species was not constant over the growing season, but was concentrated in peaks associated with particular events (e.g., a drought in 1980, and flooding and damping-off in 1981 and 1982). Seedlings emerging earlier in the spring were usually better able to survive these periods of environmental stress. During the course of the study, extensive flooding in 1979 and during 1983-1984 resulted in increases in the proportion of water oak in the seedling layer, while periods of reduced flooding during 1980-1982 allowed several of the more prolific, lighter seeded species (especially ironwood, sweetgum, and deciduous holly, Ilex decidua) to increase in importance. The two spring-dispersing, light-seeded species, red maple and elm, emerged late in the spring and therefore increased in relative abundance during 1984 when early floods killed seedlings of earlier emerging, autumn-dispersing species. Thus, spatial and temporal variation in understory seedling composition in our study was due largely to (1) species differences in the ability to increase rapidly in numbers during favorable periods as compared to the ability to survive stressful periods, and (2) the interaction of emergence phenology with the occurrence of environmental stress. These results demonstrate that variation in flooding or other environmental stresses can alter seedling layer species composition and may thereby influence opportunities for canopy replacement, thus helping to maintain species diversity in southern floodplain forests.
23596749|In long-lived N-fixing plants, environmental conditions affecting plant growth and N demand vary at multiple temporal and spatial scales, and symbiont assemblages on a given host and patterns of allocation to nodule activities have been shown to vary according to environmental factors, suggesting that hosts may alter partner choice and manipulate symbiont assemblages based on shifting plant needs. This study assessed economic trade-offs among N-fixing symbionts of thin-leaf alder (Alnus tenuifolia) by examining whether alderFrankia associations change in response to the up-regulation (P fertilization) and down-regulation (N-fertilization) of N-fixation activities, and whether these changes are associated with differences among Frankia partners in their relative C cost and/or N benefit to A. tenuifolia. Relative to control plots, alder in +P plots had significantly higher nodule biomass and N-fixation rates; these parameters were significantly lower in +N plots, translating to stand-level N inputs that were more than an order of magnitude greater in +P than +N plots. Nodule respiration and N-fixation rates were positively correlated, and analyses revealed that alder employs mechanisms to increase the efficiency of C use when N fixation is up-regulated. Of the eight Frankia OTUs (operational taxonomic units) identified, two were dominant, with significant differences in Frankia OTU composition across samples being explained by fertilization treatment. Dominant OTUs had similar up- and down-regulatory responses to treatments but differed in C costs of N fixation, while the most abundant sub-dominant failed to up-regulate N-fixation rates in +P plots. Differences among Frankia OTUs in traits relevant to plant performance may form the basis for host choice and explain successional shifts in alderFrankia assemblages. We suggest that manipulation of Frankia assemblages is an adaptation for a species such as A. tenuifolia that maintains a high dependence on atmospheric N across radically different growth environments. Because of the strong effects of thin-leaf alder on soil N contents, it appears that host changes in C partitioning to nodule activities, including the physiological consequences of host specificity for Frankia assemblages, results in alder both driving and responding to environmental heterogeneity at small to large spatial scales.
10.2307/2937108| Zooplankton species composition was manipulated in an 8-mo long series of experiments in outdoor 450-L tanks. The first experimental stage evaluated the impact of cyclopoids (Mesocyclops, Microcyclops, Cyclops) and calanoids (Diaptomus) on each other. The second and third stages evaluated the effects of Daphnia and mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis) on the calanoidcyclopoid interaction. Cyclopoid predation initially caused a 50-70% reduction in calanoid abundance. After a few months, however, cyclopoids caused >300% increases in calanoid abundance, apparently by preventing calanoid overexploitation of the phytoplankton. The presence of calanoids depressed cyclopoid abundance by up to 70-90%, presumably by diminishing the availability of edible phytoplankton to cyclopoid nauplii and of prey, such as rotifers, to cyclopoid adults. The presence of Daphnia depressed calanoid abundance, probably by reducing the phytoplankton abundance, but did not affect cyclopoid abundance, perhaps because cyclopoid adults could feed on items other than phytoplankters. Coequality (i.e., similarity in abundance) of closely related taxa was in 4 of 5 cases favored by the addition of a more distantly related taxon. Thus the addition of cyclopoids favored the coequality of two Diaptomus species (D. clavipes, D. siciloides), the addition of these Diaptomus species favored the coequality of two cyclopoid genera (Mesocyclops, Microcyclops), and the addition of Daphnia favored coequality of cyclopoids and calanoids and coequality of the two Diaptomus species, but the dominance of Microcyclops over Mesocyclops. Effects of Gambusia included a drastic reduction of Daphnia populations, moderate reduction of calanoid populations, and negligible effects on cyclopoid populations. 
10.2307/2937278|Tree squirrels in the genus Tamiasciurus are adapted to exploit conifer seeds and fungi in boreal conifer forests. The ranges of the two species in the genus are parapatric, suggesting competitive exclusion. Where their ranges are contiguous in the Cascade Mountains of southern British Columbia, Canada, the squirrels differ in at least five characters which adapt each species to be competitively superior in its range. Two of the characters (alarm calls and fur color) adapt the squirrels to avoid predation and the other three (jaw strength, body size, and reproductive rate) adapt them to exploit the resources typical of their ranges. Two or three of these differences also allow each species to be competitively superior on its side of other sections of the species boundary in coastal British Columbia and northeastern Oregon. The two species from rare hybrids, especially where logging has created disturbed habitats. The pattern of carrying food to storage in a central cache is the basis for both the evolution of territoriality in Tamiasciurus and the absence of sympatry for the two species. In most cases where congeneric territorial species are sympatric and carry food to the center of the territory, they spend most of their time searching for and catching food and relatively little time carrying it. For Tamiasciurus, on the other hand, food is easy to locate and most of the foraging time is spent in carrying food to the cache. Splitting the food niche of Tamiasciurus would involve too large an increase in time and energy for carrying food to be balanced by any gain in feeding and digestive efficiency that could result from specializing on a narrower range of food.
10.2307/2937173|King Penguins are the second largest of all diving birds and share with their congener, Emperor Penguins, breeding habits strikingly different from other penguins. Our purpose was to determine the feeding behavior, energetics of foraging and the prey species, and compare these to other sympatric species of subantarctic divers. We determined: (1) general features of foraging behavior using time-depth recorders, velocity meters, and radio transmitters, (2) energetics by doubly labeled water, (3) food habits and energy content from stomach lavage samples, and (4) resting and swimming metabolic rate by oxygen consumption measurements. The average foraging cycle was @?6 d, during which the mass gain of 30 birds was @?2 kg. When at sea, the birds exhibit a marked pattern of shallow dives during the night, whereas deep dives of >100 m only occurred during the day. Maximum depth measured from 34 birds and 18 537 dives was 304 m, and maximum dive duration from 23 birds and 11 874 dives was 7.7 min. The frequency distribution of dive depth was bimodal, with few dives between 40 and 100 m. Overall, swim velocities when a bird was at sea averaged 2.1 m/s (N = 5), while descent and ascent rates of change in depth averaged 0.6 m/s for dives <60 m (N = 74) and 1.4 m/s for dives >150 m (N = 90). Night feeding dives occurred at a rate of @?20 dives/h, and deep dives occurred at a rate of @?5 dives/h. The energy consumption rate while resting ashore was 3.3 W/kg (N = 3) or 1.6 times the predicted standard metabolic rate (SMR). The average energy consumption rate while away from the colony was 10 W/kg (N = 8) or 4.6 x SMR, compared to 4.3 x SMR estimated from a time-energy budget. The latter value is based on an average metabolic rate of 4.2 W/kg for three birds while resting in 5@?C water and 9.6 W/kg while swimming at 2 m/s, which was extrapolated from the average of three birds swimming at 1 m/s. The average energy intake based on 9 stomach content samples was nearly 24.6 kJ/g dry mass. The main prey by number are myctophid fish of the species Krefftichthys anderssoni and Electrona carlsbergi. It was concluded that: (1) feeding begins @?28 km from the colony, (2) prey is pursued night and day through its vertical movements, (3) vertical distribution of the prey is reflected closely by diving habits of the birds, (4) deep-diving, for unknown reasons, is an important component of foraging success, (5) diving capacities of King Penguins are remarkable compared to other birds and many pinnipeds, and (6) calculated foraging energetics can be closely estimated from time-energy budgets.
10.2307/1942493|Seed germination in the seasonal tropical forest on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, was studied at the community level to (1) determine the seasonal timing of germination of the community, (2) identify primary selective factors controlling timing of germination, (3) determine the relative importance of dormancy vs. timing of seed dispersal as mechanisms controlling timing of germination, (4) examine inter- and intraspecific components of variance in length of dormancy, and (5) identify major seed germination syndromes. Three community-level measures of seedling emergence indicated that there was a unimodal community peak in germination within the first 2 mo of the 8-mo-long rainy season. Of the @?185 dicot, mostly woody, species germinating each year, the median time of emergence of 75% of the species occurred within the 1st 3 mo. There was a unimodal peak in germination in pioneer tree species, lianas, canopy trees, wind- and animal-dispersed species, and seedlings with and without persistent seed reserves. In contrast, there was no distinct peak period of emergence in understory species and shade-tolerant tree species. Initial seedling height of species emerging sequentially throughout the rainy season did not increase. The early emergence of most species, including three-fourths of the 35 species fruiting in the late rainy season, indicated that the early rainy season was the optimal time to emerge. Maximizing the length of the first growing season was not an important factor selecting for early emergence, because later-emerging species did not compensate for the shorter growing season by being larger at germination or by having seed reserves for rapid growth. Seedling-seedling competition is a primary biotic factor selecting for early emergence in pioneer species growing in the intensely competitive light-gap habitat. In shaded understory habitats, where competition among seedlings is much less intense, understory and shade-tolerant tree species emerged throughout the rainy season. Mean length of dormancy (MLD),the time between sowing and germination, of 157 woody dicot species on Barro Colorado Island ranged from 2 to 370 d. In over half the species, MLD exceeded 4 wk; hence, delays in germination are common. The season in which seeds were dispersed and the dispersal mechanism explained small but significant portions of the variance in MLD among species; life form explained none; but differences among three germination syndromes explained two-thirds of this variance. In the delayed-rainy syndrome (18% of all species) seeds were dispersed in the rainy season but were dormant until the beginning of the next rainy season, 4-8 mo later. Dormancy is the primary mechanism controlling time of germination. In the delayed-rainy syndrome and the intermediate-dry syndrome which follows, the length of the dormant period decreased as the interval between seed dispersal and the beginning of the rainy season decreased. In the intermediate-dry syndrome (42% of all species) seeds were dispersed during the during the dry season and remained dormant until the beginning of the rainy season. Seeds are primarily dispersed 1-2 mo before the beginning of the rainy season, which reduces the number of false germination cues encountered and decreases the length of time seeds are exposed to postdispersal predation while dormancy prevents germination during dry season rains. In the rapid-rainy syndrome (40% of all species) seeds were dispersed in the rainy season and germinated during, but not early in, that season. Dormancy has been replaced entirely by timing of dispersal as a mechanism controlling time of germination. Half of these species germinated in <2 wk, the rest in 2-16 wk.
10.2307/1942161|Collards were grown at Ithaca, New York, in two experimental habitats: pure stands and single rows that were bounded on each side by diverse, meadow vegetation. The arthropods associated with these plants were sampled on 20 dates over a 3-year period. The status of the herbivore species was measured by their rank in biomass in each sample. The two most prominent species, Phyllotreta cruciferae and Pieris rapae, maintained high status throughout the investigation, but another important species, Brevicoryne brassicae, was absent for an entire season. Pit feeders usually formed the most important herbivore guild. Nevertheless, the guild spectrum, which describes the functional structure of the fauna, varied widely in time and space. The size distributions of species and of individuals were both highly skewed toward the smaller sizes. Herbivore loads, the mean biomass of herbivores per 100 g of consumable foliage, were consistently higher in the pure stands. Moreover, herbivore loads varied significantly with season in each experimental habitat. Both the number of herbivore species and the diversity of the herbivore load were greater in the diverse habitat. Biomass was more heavily concentrated among the prominent herbivores in the pure stands; increased dominance, rather than differences in species richness, appeared to be the major cause for the lower herbivore diversity in this habitat. The diversity of predators and parasitoids was higher in the pure stands. Most of the abundant species found on collards shared a similar narrow range of hosts. As a result the species in this core group of herbivores and parasitoids were regularly associated with each other. Predators and the less abundant herbivores tended to be less specialized and served to link the collard association with the surrounding community. Plant-arthropod associations are representative of component communities, well-integrated systems that form portions of larger compound communities. This distinction facilitates the analysis of community structure. Microclimates and the effectiveness of @'enemies@' did not appear to differ sufficiently in the two experimental habitats to account for the observed differences in the herbivore load. The results suggest a new proposition, the resource concentration hypothesis, which states that herbivores are more likely to find and remain on hosts that are growing in dense or nearly pure stands; that the most specialized species frequently attain higher relative densities in simple environments; and that, as a result, biomass tends to become concentrated in a few species, causing a decrease in the diversity of herbivores in pure stands.
10.2307/2937056|Pollen and plant macrofossil analyses of sediments from an altitudinal series of lakes in the White Mountains of New Hampshire, USA were used to reconstruct the history of vegetation on the mountain slopes and to identify the factors responsible for vegetation change. Six sites, Mirror Lake (213 m), Lost Pond (625 m), Little East Pond (793 m), Lonesome Lake (831 m), Carter Notch Pond (1004 m), and Lake of the Clouds (1538 m), provide paleoecological records of changes in the altitudinal limits of species, the species abundances within communities, and the vegetation zones. These are supplemented by previously published data from three high-elevation sites (Spear 1989). Although past plant communities were different from modern ones, differentiation of vegetation along the slopes has always existed. At low elevations the sequence of vegetation change was: 13 700-11 500 yr BP, tundra; 11 500-9000 yr BP, transitional mixed-conifer woodlands of first spruce (Picea) and then fir (Abies balsamea), larch (Larix laricina), poplar (Populus), and paper birch (Betula papyrifera); 9000-7000 yr BP, forests dominated by pine (Pinus) and oak (Quercus); 7000 yr BP-present, mixed-hardwood forests. No late-glacial paleoecological records exist at mid-elevation sites (700-1200 m). The steep slopes at these elevations stabilized by 10 000 yr BP and an early woodland of spruce was replaced by fir, larch, and paper birch. The altitudinal limits of both white pine (Pinus strobus) and hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) expanded to mid-elevations during the mid-Holocene, suggesting greater warmth 6000-4000 yr BP. The modern spruce/fir forests of mid-elevations became established 2000 yr ago as spruce expanded at all elevations, suggesting cooler, moister climate similar to today. A tree line dominated by balsam fir and black spruce (Picea mariana) was established at its modern position 10 000 yr ago and has varied little since then, although it appears to have been slightly higher than now during the early Holocene. Changes in the vegetation at low and mid-elevations have not been synchronous with those at tree line and result from a more complex set of environmental factors and climatic variables acting on several different species. At low and mid-elevations disturbance by wind and frost action was important during the late-glacial. Disturbance by fire was important during the period of spruce woodland and later in the early Holocene pine and oak forest. From 7000 yr BP to the present the primary factor disturbing New Hampshire forest was again probably wind, especially from 7000 to 4000 yr BP when higher temperatures than present may have been associated with increased frequency and intensity of thunderstorms and tropical hurricanes. The vegetation history reveals that different lapse rates have occurred along the mountain slopes. This provides evidence that the source of air masses reaching the White Mountains has varied. The boundary between alpine tundra and subalpine fir forest (tree line) most likely has always been governed temperature (summer insolation) and wind. The montane plant communities result from individual species response rather than community response to the numerous climatic forces that have affected the mountains over the past 14 000 yr.
10.2307/1942580|I examined the spatial and temporal partitioning of variation in settlement and early survival of an intertidal barnacle, Tesseropora rosea. Monthly, for 3 yr, I monitored the density of newly settled barnacles (<30 d old) and new recruits (30-60 d old) on each of three spatial scales referred to as: within sites (i.e., replicate areas within 3 m^2), among sites within shores (i.e., six sites arrayed horizontally in the mid-intertidal region, with 20-50 m between adjacent sites), and among shores (seven headlands along the New South Wales coast with 11-555 km between them). Sites and shores were initially chosen to be as similar as possible with respect to height in the intertidal region, density of adult Tesseropora, and wave exposure. All observed variation was, therefore, within-habitat variation and not readily related to any of the factors already known to affect the density of settlers or their subsequent survival, such as exposure or intertidal level. There was significant variation in the densities of settlers and recruits on all spatial scales at any given time. Variation among months and among years was also great at any given spatial scale. There were no simple, consistent trends, however, in the variation within any spatial or temporal scale, i.e., variation at any spatial scale interacted strongly with that for any temporal scale. The shores @? years interaction (the interaction of large-scale spatial with large-scale temporal variation) produced dominant year-classes on some shores in some years and on other shores in other years. Proportional survival of new settlers also varied significantly on all spatial and temporal scales monitored. Thus, much residual patchiness exists in the spatial and temporal distributions of barnacles <60 d old. Previous authors investigating the structure and maintenance of rocky intertidal communities have played down the fact that settlement and recruitment of the component species vary greatly on different scales. Yet, such variation should be explicitly incorporated in the development of theory for marine populations and communities.
10.2307/2657203|Large-scale geographical and historical factors can strongly affect species richness within ecological communities (local richness), because most communities are at least partially open to immigration from regional species pools. To completely understand local richness patterns, it is important to distinguish local explanations, such as spatiotemporal heterogeneity, from larger scale explanations for regional enrichment, and to integrate these explanations with traditional niche-based notions (e.g., resource partitioning, limiting similarity, limited membership, etc.). Here we use regression models to evaluate the sensitivity of local richness in reef-building corals to two local and six regional variables at multiple geographical scales. The local variables are depth and habitat, and the regional variables are the number of species and genera in a region, average age of genera, distance to the equator, distance to the nearest high-diversity region, and a dummy variable contrasting the Indo-Pacific and Atlantic provinces. At the largest geographical scale (Indo-Pacific and Atlantic provinces combined), we find that local richness varies significantly with depth, habitat, and five regional variables. The relative sensitivity of local richness to local and regional variables (61 and 39%, respectively) is similar to that at two smaller geographical scales: (1) the Indo-Pacific and (2) the speciose central Indo-Pacific. However, when only depauperate regions of the Indo-Pacific are considered, regional variables contribute more strongly to local richness, explaining 95% of the variation in this attribute. The analysis indicates that Indo-Pacific coral assemblages in both speciose and depauperate regions are unsaturated, as local richness consistently increases with the size of the regional species pool. Comparable regional effects are totally absent in the Atlantic province, where local richness is sensitive only to depth and habitat. This result is consistent with the assessment that regional species distributions are relatively homogeneous within this province. We interpret this lack of regional heterogeneity as a historical consequence of climatic and geologic events, which isolated this province from the Indo-Pacific in the Pliocene and caused major extinctions among predominantly stenotopic species 1-4 x 10
27646157|Groundwater makes up nearly 99% of unfrozen freshwater worldwide and sustains riparian trees rooted in shallow aquifers, especially in arid and semiarid climates. The goal of this paper is to root animals in the regional water cycle by quantifying the significance of groundwater to riparian animals. We focused our efforts on the cricket, Gryllus alogus: a common primary consumer found in floodplain forests along the San Pedro River, in southeast Arizona, USA. Cottonwood trees make groundwater available to G. alogus as dislodged, groundwater-laden leaves (greenfall). We hypothesized that groundwater fluxes mediated by greenfall sustain G. allogus through the prolonged dry season and link these aboveground consumers to belowground aquifers. To test this hypothesis, we first characterized gradients in absolute humidity (air) and water stress in field-collected G. alogus. Absolute humidity declined with distance from river across wide stands of floodplain cottonwood forest during the dry season, but not during the rainy season. Similarly, G. alogus body water content declined along this gradient. Second, we measured evaporative water loss (EWL) by field-captured G. alogus in the laboratory at temperatures bracketing field conditions. EWL ranged from 0.05  0.009 gindividual-1d-1 0.13  0.03 gindividual-1d-1 (mean  SD, at 30 and 40C, respectively). These daily losses are high, but still less than the water content of a single cottonwood leaf (0.296  0.124 g H2O/leaf). Third, we designed field experiments to quantify the relative dependence of G. alogus on greenfall. G. alogus more frequently consumed greenfall than various controls consisting of dried leaves. This preference occurred in distal habitats and during the dry season, but not proximal to the river or in the rainy season. Finally, we compared estimated daily water fluxes via greenfall to (1) estimates of water demand of the entire G. alogus population at our field site, and (2) reports of cottonwood transpiration and San Pedro River base flow from other authors. By our estimates, groundwater fluxes via greenfall sustain G. alogus populations despite their trivial magnitude compared to stream discharge and cottonwood transpiration. Primary consumers in turn provide dietary water to higher trophic levels (e.g., abundant and speciose birds in the region) through trophic pathways, thereby fueling secondary production from the bottom up. Thus, riparian trees root animals in the regional water cycle.
10.2307/2963514|A novel dendroecological procedure was developed to elucidate canopy disturbances spanning a >300-yr period for oak (Quercus) forests of central Pennsylvania. Running comparisons of sequential 10-yr ring-width averages may effectively neutralize both short-term (i.e., drought) and long-term growth trends associated with climate while enhancing detection of abrupt and sustained radial-growth increases characteristic of canopy disturbance. Thinning-response studies revealed the conservative tendencies of overstory oak, with substantial basal area reductions (>1/3) required to attain moderate and consistently detectable growth increases. Based on empirical evidence, a minimum growth-response threshold of 25% was established to depict canopy disturbances. This is in contrast to the 50-100% sustained radial-growth release often used to detect disturbance using understory trees in closed forests. Our default threshold was adjusted higher as necessary for those trees highly correlated to climatic trends (as represented by the Palmer drought severity index). Canopy disturbances detected with this dendroecological approach were further substantiated using tree-recruitment data (age cohorting). By coupling these data sets, we estimated return intervals of standwide disturbance from 21 yr in presettlement times (prior to 1775) and during heavy Euro-American exploitation (1775-1900) to 31 yr in modern times (after 1900). Although disturbance periodicity remained stable between presettlement and early post-settlement (exploitation) eras, the mode of disturbance shifted from mainly natural (wind and fire) to anthropogenic forces (intense harvesting for charcoal production), based on the historical record. In the process, presettlement oak-pine (Pinus)-chestnut (Castanea) forests on ridges were rapidly converted to young coppice stands of oak and chestnut. The reduction of harvesting and fire events coupled with the eradication of chestnut by blight this century have allowed these coppice stands to mature into oak-dominated forests that exist today. This analytical technique for ascertaining disturbance histories holds much potential and should be considered for use with mature, overstory trees in other forest types with appropriate modifications.
10.2307/2937257| The breeding and feeding of four species of finches were studied on Isla Genovesa, Galapagos from January to May 1978. Food supply and finch diets were studied in the nonbreeding season (November) as well. The species in order of decreasing body size were Geospiza magnirostris, G. conirostris, G. difficilis, and Certhidea olivacea. Initiation of breeding was not a simple function of body size; the medium-sized cactus finch, G. conirostris, started breeding first, followed by G. difficilis and G. magnirostris in that order. Eggs of G. conirostris were first laid within @?1 wk of the first rains. Certhidea laid a maximum of three clutches, G. magnirostris and G. conirostris laid up to four, and one pair of G. difficilis laid five. Similarities among all four species were found in incubation periods (10-14 d, mode 12 d), nestling periods (11-17 d, modes 13-15 d), and uniform success of clutches of different sizes. Similarities among the three Geospiza species were found in the interval between successive clutches (@?30 d); the modal size of clutches (four eggs); seasonal variation in clutch sizes, in which average size was largest among second clutches and smallest among fourth clutches; egg and nestling production; and the average interval between fledging from one nest and egg laying by the parents in the next nest. This average interval was 1-4 d, but some pairs of all three species started laying 5-6 d before the nestlings of the previous brood had fledged. The species differed in the number of fledglings produced per pair; from the first three clutches G. difficilis produced 9.5 @+ 0.5 per pair, G. conirostris produced 7.9 @+ 0.7, G. magnirostris produced 5.1 @+ 0.9, and Certhidea produced 3.2 @+ 1.5. The relatively low success of G. magnirostris was attributed to predation of nestlings by owls (Asio flammeus), which occurred most frequently within 1 wk of expected fledging. The low success of Certhidea is attributed to disturbance at the nest by G. difficilis and mockingbirds (Nesomimus parvulus), and possible predation by mockingbirds. Compared with finch species in a climatically similar region of the Ecuadorian mainland, Darwin's Finches have large clutches, a much longer nestling period, higher nesting and breeding success, but similar, and low, incidences of egg infertility. Certhidea fed nestlings on an exclusively arthropod diet, whereas the three Geospiza species fed nestlings on a mixed diet of arthropods, fruits, and seeds. All Geospiza species fed size selectively on spiders in proportion to their average body and beak size. Diets of the three Geospiza species were largely overlapping throughout the breeding season. Differences reflected the differences in beak sizes. Seeds of Bursera graveolens, which are difficult to crack, were absent from nestling diets of (the smallest) G. difficilis, and most frequent in nestling diets of (the largest) G. magnirostris. Only G. conirostris fed nestlings on parts of Opuntia helleri (cactus). Diets of the three species diverged markedly in the nonbreeding season, at which time they clearly reflected the adaptations of beak sizes and shapes. The results are discussed in terms of the strong seasonality in food production and availability, coupled with interannual variation in amount, onset, and pattern of rainfall, and hence food production. It is concluded that adaptations for food gathering in the nonbreeding season, when food is scarce, have indirect influences upon reproductive traits, resulting in small but significant demographic differences between species. 
4539087|Biological legacies left by natural disturbances provide ecological functions throughout forest stand development, but their influences on processes of ecological succession are not completely understood. We investigated the successional role of one type of biological legacy: remnant old-growth trees persisting in mature Pseudotsuga menziesii (Douglas-fir) forests in the U.S. Pacific Northwest. We tested the hypothesis that remnant old-growth Tsuga heterophylla (western hemlock) and Thuja plicata (western red cedar) trees enhance the reestablishment of shade-tolerant conifers by increasing the availability of seed. Reestablishment of shade-tolerant conifers is a key process in late-successional forest development because it leads to vertical differentiation of the canopy and eventual codominance of shade-tolerant species. Two study areas were selected in the southern Washington Cascade Range, USA. Both had an unfragmented, mature forest cover that was regenerated naturally following wildfire. Twelve study sites were selected, including sites with and without remnant T. plicata and T. heterophylla. Overstory structure and composition, microsite variables, and conifer regeneration were systematically sampled using nested belt transects and quadrats. Sites with remnant T. heterophylla and T. plicata had significantly higher densities of conspecific seedlings. Multivariate analyses showed remnant T. heterophylla and T. plicata presence and density to be the strongest predictors of seedling densities, although the basal area of mature conspecific trees, relative density, aspect, stand age, and microsite characteristics were important secondary predictors. Microsite variations explained regeneration patchiness. Seedling densities were strongly correlated with proximity to remnant trees, exhibiting a negative exponential decline with distance. Shade-tolerant conifers are likely to reestablish faster at sites with remnant seed trees, but canopy disturbances are probably necessary for subsequent height growth. Remnant shade-tolerant conifers are an important biological legacy and seed source influencing rates of ecological succession in mature P. menziesii stands. Successional and stand development models should explicitly incorporate this dynamic.
10.2307/2937296|The foraging movements of a Neotropical frugivorous bat (Carollia perspicillata)were studied to better understand its impact on the plants it disperses and the factors influencing its foraging behavior. Radio telemetry was used during 2 wet seasons to monitor the bats' movements in a Costa Rican seasonal tropical forest. We monitored 24 individuals for periods of up to 19 nights. This sample size permitted a statistical analysis of the influence of bats' weight, bat's sex, moonlight, and the distribution of resources on foraging patterns. Carollia perspicillata is a refuging species: individuals dispersed from shared day roots to feed at night, then returned after foraging. At night there were 3 major activity periods, but there was some activity all night. When foraging, each individual went to 2 to 6 feeding areas that were used consistently through the observation period. Each night it flew back and forth between areas. Searching for new feeding areas was uncommon. Average flight distances for individuals were 1.6 kilometres between the day roost and feeding areas, 1.5 km among feeding areas, and 1.6 km to gather fruits within feeding areas. The density at feeding areas decreased with distance from the day roost, as predicted by refuging theory. There was little overlap among different individuals' feeding areas, but the largest amount of overlap was adjacent to 1 day roost. Bats from the 2 major day roosts shared feeding a areas only at locations midway between the roosts. Flight patterns were influenced by bats' weights, the patchiness of resources, and the amount of moonlight. From these and other observations, we infer that both predation and energetic considerations affect C. perspicillata foraging. In addition, this species appears to respond to long-term factors as well as night-to-night conditions so that dynamic models will be necessary to describe its foraging.
10.2307/2963466|Observations over a 30-yr period revealed a considerable degree of natural variation in the abundance of corals on Heron Island, Great Barrier Reef, Queensland, Australia. Cover ranged from <0.1% to >80%, with a similar large range in colony density, at several temporal and spatial scales. Much of this variation was due to the type, intensity, and spatial scale of disturbances that occurred. Coral assemblages usually recovered from acute disturbances, both on Heron Island and on other Indo-Pacific reefs. In contrast, corals did not recover from chronic disturbances of either natural or human origins, or from gradual declines. Recovery was slower after acute disturbances that altered the physical environment than after disturbances that simply killed or damaged corals. The space and time scales of declines and recoveries in abundance were much smaller on the wave-exposed side of the reef than on the side protected from storms. Recruitment rates were reduced by preemption of space by corals or macroalgae, and by storms that altered the substratum. Thus, the dynamics of abundance in this coral community can be largely understood through the variation in types and scales of disturbances that occurred, and the processes that took place where disturbances were rare.
10.2307/2937054|A method is presented for unravelling the demographic equation for structured populations. A solution to the McKendrick-von Foerster equation is constructed using spline functions and this is fluted to stage-structure population data in such a way that the solution is smooth, positive, and does not imply negative death rates. The smoothness of the surface, and hence the complexity of the population model, is determined in a statistically optimum manner using cross validation. Time- and age-dependent death rates can be obtained as well as time-dependent birth rates. Confidence intervals are obtained for population size and death rates that give a 95% probability that the true population dynamics are within the intervals. Practical application of the method is demonstrated, and comparison made with three alternative methods. The method requires estimates of stage populations at a series of times and estimates of the durations of those stages, or age ranges covered by the stages. The stage durations may vary with time.
10.2307/2937329|The mechanism that control the distribution and abundance of major benthic organisms in subtidal coral reef communities are poorly understood. Through field experimentation and manipulations, this study investigated the factors that account for the vertical zonation patterns found on a fringing reef in the Gulf of Panama (Pacific). In this community, pocilloporid corals form a near-monotypic stand (80-85% live coral cover) in shallow water (0-6 m depth) while massive corals, particularly Pavona gigantea, predominate in low density (@?18% cover) in the deeper areas of the reef (6-10 m depth). The paucity of massive corals in shallow water results mainly from chronic and severe mortality caused by the omnivorous damselfish Eupomacentrus acapulcoensis (Pomacentridae). These highly territorial fish establish algal mats (used as a source of food and nesting site) on hard substrata, including coral. The effect of this activity was found to be differential with respect to (1) species (i.e., Pavona suffered higher mortality compared to Pocillopora) and (2) depth (i.e., the frequency and extent of damaged Pavona colonies were higher in shallow compared to deep areas). Pavona suffered higher mortality due to differences in coral morphology: damselfish are more effective at removing tissue from a massive (open) surface than from a tightly branched pocilloporid coral. Pavona was most severely damaged in shallow water because of depth-related differences in topographic complexity. By removing the topographic complexity surrounding colonies with damselfish and by adding complex substratum around colonies without damselfish, it was found that damselfish abandon territories when substratum complexity is reduced and immigrate to colonies when complexity is increased. Immigration eventually led to coral mortality. Hence, shelter is a necessary requisite for the establishment of a damselfish territory. Censuses revealed that shelter site availability surrounding Pavona colonies and damselfish abundance (both overall and per individual Pavona colony) were greater in shallow compared to deep water. Damselfish were conspicuously absent from small colonies (@<1.5 m^2 surface area) that lacked holes or crevices within the colony or immediately adjacent to it; such colonies were only present in deep water. Controlled experiments using live coral fragments (simulating 1-1.5 yr old juveniles) attached to hard substratum demonstrated that pocilloporid corals suffer high mortality and substantially reduced growth rates in deep reef areas due to grazing by pufferfish and parrotfish. The effectiveness of this predation/grazing activity was related to the position of the coral fragments relative to defended damselfish territories. Outside the territory, growth and survivorship of fragments were low for Pocillopora but high for Pavona. Within areas defended by damselfish, Pocillopora and Pavona fragments grew equally well both caged and uncaged. On the algal mat itself, however, Pavona fragments suffered high mortality from damselfish: Pocillopora growth under these conditions was only temporarily reduced. The data in this study indicate that damselfish territories provide a refuge against juvenile mortality for Pocillopora within defended areas, thus facilitating the establishment of branching corals in shallow water and concomitantly reducing or eliminating its potential space competitor, Pavona. A proposed successional model suggests that Pocillopora abundance may ultimately control the abundance of damselfish. This study indicates that community structure on some eastern Pacific reefs may be controlled by the direct and indirect behavioral interactions between damselfish and transient fish corallivores, and physical factors (availability of shelters) limiting the distribution of damselfish.
10.2307/1942394|The study area, bounded north and south by two large reservoirs, includes the most extensive remnant of floodplain forest in the Dakotas. Structure and composition of the forest overstory are strongly related to stand age and horizontal and vertical position on the floodplain. Populus deltoides Marsh. and Salix amygdaloides Anders. predominate in young stands which generally occur on low terraces near the center of the floodplain. Fraxinus pennsylvanica var. lanceolata (Borkh.) Sarg., Acer negundo L., Ulmus americana L., and Quercus macrocarpa Michx., which replace Populus and Salix through time, predominate in old stands on high terraces near the edge of the floodplain. Stands intermediate in composition are uncommon because of the discontinuous meandering pattern of the river across its floodplain. Surface soil environment and species diversity change markedly during the course of succession. The soils of young stands are generally sandy and low in organic matter. Soil nutrient content and available water capacity are generally higher in older stands because of higher organic matter content and repeated inputs of nutrient-rich silt from past floods. Tree species diversity (H') initially increases as stands age, reaches a maximum in stands with mixtures of both pioneer and terminal species, and declines slightly in the oldest stands. Both variety and evenness follow a similar pattern. Analyses of population structure indicate a recent decline in the establishment of small stems of Acer and Ulmus. Tree core analyses show a similar decline in diameter growth rate for Acer, Ulmus, and Fraxinus. Available data suggest that these changes can be attributed to the removal of periodic spring flooding caused by the presence and operation of the reservoirs. It is also hypothesized that the lack of seedling-sapling stands of Populus in the region is the result of a presumed reduction in the meandering rate of the river following reservoir construction and poor seedbed conditions in the absence of flooding.
23047055|Pathogens, like other consumers, mediate the outcome of competitive interactions between their host species. Ongoing efforts to integrate pathogens into plant community ecology could be accelerated by greater conceptual unification. Research on plant pathogens has mainly focused on a variety of disparate mechanismsthe Janzen-Connell hypothesis, plantsoil feedbacks, competitiondefense trade-offs, escape of invasive plants from their enemies, and epidemic-driven community shiftswith limited recognition of how these mechanisms fit into the broader context of plant coexistence. Here, I extend an emerging theoretical framework for understanding species coexistence to include various pathogen impacts on plant communities. Pathogens can promote coexistence by regulating relative abundance or by reducing the disparities between species in fitness that make coexistence more difficult. Conversely, pathogens may undermine coexistence by creating positive feedbacks or by increasing between-species fitness differences. I review the evidence for these pathogen-mediated mechanisms, and I reframe the major hypotheses in a community ecology context in order to understand how the mechanisms are related. This approach generates predictions about how various modes of pathogen attack affect plant coexistence, even when direct impacts on host relative abundance are difficult to measure. Surprisingly, no study gives direct empirical evidence for pathogen effects on mutual invasibility, a key criterion for coexistence. Future studies should investigate the relationship between pathogen attack and host relative abundance, in order to distinguish between mechanisms.
10.2307/1942286|The following eight community types in the Olympic Mountains, delimited from an ordination of 38 plots, are described: (1) the cushion plant type occurring in dry habitats on exposed knolls or ridge tops; (2) the dry grass-forb type occurring on steep, dry, south- to west-facing slopes; (3) the mesic grass type occurring on mesic, south- to west-facing slopes; (4) the moist Saussaurea forb type occurring in shallow gullies kept moist by melting snowbanks or shallow streams; (5) the moists Valeriana forb type occuring on steep, northeast-facing slopes; (6) the tall sedge type mostly occurring at higher elevations on many aspects and topographic situations, depending on location in the Olympic Mountains; (7) the heath shrub type occurring in cool habitats where snow remains until mid- to late July; and (8) the dwarf sedge type occurring in high subalpine to alpine areas where snow remains until late July to early August. Soils are mostly poorly developed (Entisol and Inceptisol), but some have well-developed horizons (Spodosol). The less developed soils generally had higher amounts of available nutrients. Physical properties differed little between soils in each community, except for the fraction >2 mm which varied from a high of 82% in the dry grass-forb community to a low of 31% in the tall sedge community. Solar radiation, wind velocity, precipitation, atmospheric moisture, temperature, and soil moisture were monitored in the dry grass-forb, mesic grass, and Saussaurea forb communities. Total solar radiation received was similar in the summers of 1966 and 1967. Wind velocity was low in all communities; the highest average for a summer was 1.2-1.6 m/sec in the mesic grass community. Temperatures and vapor pressure deficits were highest in the dry grass-forb community and lowest in the moist Saussaurea forb community. Precipitation differed little among stations. Soil moisture in 1967 was available for the shortest period in the dry grass-forb community and 3 and 5 weeks longer in the mesic grass and moist Saussaurea forb communities, respectively. Shoot productivity was determined in three communities, and standing crop of shoots and roots was determined in five communities. Productivity values were 1.2, 2.7, and 11.4 g/m^2 per day in the dry grass-forb, mesic grass, and moist Saussaurea forb communities, respectively. Peak shoot production, ranked from low to high, was dry grass-forb (107 g/m^2), dwarf sedge (157 g/m^2), mesic grass (245 g/m^2), tall sedge (395 g/m^2), and moist Saussaurea forb (502 g/m^2). Peak root production ranged from a high of 3,257 g/m^2 in the tall sedge community to a low of 1,234 g/m^2 in the moist Saussaurea forb community. Chlorophyll content in the five communities followed the same trend as shoot production. The correlation between ovendry weight of shoots and chlorophyll content was high (r = .70, p < .01). Differences in water potentials were small among the species from the dry grass-forb, mesic grass, and moist Saussaurea forb communities, and the lowest water potentials were mostly between -14 and -16 bars. The effect of light, temperature, and soil moisture on photosynthesis was determined for Caltha leptosepala (wet site species), Saussaurea americana (moist site species), Festuca idahoensis and Lupinus latifolius (mesic site species), and Eriophyllum lanatum (dry site species). Except for the temperature response of Caltha and Eriophyllum, response of the five species to the three environmental factors helped to explain their natural distribution.
27806873|We assess the response of pack ice penguins, Emperor (Aptenodytes forsteri) and Adlie (Pygoscelis adeliae), to habitat variability and, then, by modeling habitat alterations, the qualitative changes to their populations, size and distribution, as Earth's average tropospheric temperature reaches 2C above preindustrial levels (ca. 1860), the benchmark set by the European Union in efforts to reduce greenhouse gases. First, we assessed models used in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) on penguin performance duplicating existing conditions in the Southern Ocean. We chose four models appropriate for gauging changes to penguin habitat: GFDL-CM2.1, GFDL-CM2.0, MIROC3.2(hi-res), and MRI-CGCM2.3.2a. Second, we analyzed the composited model ENSEMBLE to estimate the point of 2C warming (20252052) and the projected changes to sea ice coverage (extent, persistence, and concentration), sea ice thickness, wind speeds, precipitation, and air temperatures. Third, we considered studies of ancient colonies and sediment cores and some recent modeling, which indicate the (space/time) large/centennial-scale penguin response to habitat limits of all ice or no ice. Then we considered results of statistical modeling at the temporal interannual-decadal scale in regard to penguin response over a continuum of rather complex, meso- to large-scale habitat conditions, some of which have opposing and others interacting effects. The ENSEMBLE meso/decadal-scale output projects a marked narrowing of penguins' zoogeographic range at the 2C point. Colonies north of 70 S are projected to decrease or disappear: 50% of Emperor colonies (40% of breeding population) and 75% of Adlie colonies (70% of breeding population), but limited growth might occur south of 73S. Net change would result largely from positive responses to increase in polynya persistence at high latitudes, overcome by decreases in pack ice cover at lower latitudes and, particularly for Emperors, ice thickness. Adlie Penguins might colonize new breeding habitat where concentrated pack ice diverges and/or disintegrating ice shelves expose coastline. Limiting increase will be decreased persistence of pack ice north of the Antarctic Circle, as this species requires daylight in its wintering areas. Adlies would be affected negatively by increasing snowfall, predicted to increase in certain areas owing to intrusions of warm, moist marine air due to changes in the Polar Jet Stream.
40385205|We examined direct and indirect impacts of millennial-scale climate change on fire regimes in the south-central Brooks Range, Alaska, USA, using four lake sediment records and existing paleoclimate interpretations. New techniques were introduced to identify charcoal peaks semi-objectively and to detect statistical differences between fire regimes. Peaks in charcoal accumulation rates provided estimates of fire return intervals (FRIs), which were compared among vegetation zones identified by fossil pollen and stomta. Climatic warming between ca. 15000-9000 yr BP (calendar years before Common Era [CE] 1950) coincided with shifts in vegetation from herb tundra to shrub tundra to deciduous woodlands, all novel species assemblages relative to modern vegetation. Two sites cover this period and show decreased FRIs with the transition from herb to Betula-dominated shrub tundra ca. 13300-14300 yr BP $(FRI_{mean} \, = \,144\,\,yr;\,\,95\% \,CI\, = \,120 - 169\,yr)$, when climate warmed but remained cooler than present. Although warming would have favored shorter FRIs in the shrub tundra, the shift to more continuous, flammable fuels relative to herb tundra was probably a more important cause of increased burning. Similarly, a vegetation shift to Populus-dominated deciduous woodlands overrode the influence of warmer- and drier-than-present summers, resulting in lower fire activity from ca. 10300-8250 yr BP $(FRI_{mean} \, = \,251\,\,yr;\,\,95\% \,CI\, = \,156 - 347\,yr)$. Three sites record the mid-to-late Holocene, when climatic cooling and moistening allowed Picea glauca forest-tundra and P. mariana boreal forests to establish ca. 8000 and 5500 yr BP, respectively. FRIs in forest-tundra were either similar to or shorter than those in the deciduous woodlands $(FRI_{mean} \,range\, = \,131 - 238\,yr)$. The addition of P. mariana ca. 5500 yr BP increased landscape flammability, overrode the effects of climatic cooling and moistening and resulted in lower FRIs $(FRI_{mean} \, = \,145\,\,yr;\,\,95\% \,CI\, = \,130 - 163)$ . Overall, shifts in fire regimes were strongly linked to changes in vegetation, which were responding to millennial-scale climate change. We conclude that shifts in vegetation can amplify or override the direct influence of climate change on fire regimes, when vegetation shifts significantly modify landscape flammability. Our findings emphasize the importance of biophysical feedbacks between climate, fire, and vegetation in determining the response of ecosystems to past, and by inference, future climate change.
27646069|On Caribbean reefs, a striking trend of the last 25 years has been the decline in cover of the framework-building coral Montastraea annularis, a species that has dominated reefs throughout the region for millennia. Clearly, such losses are important ecologically, but to evaluate their significance fully, they need to be placed in the context of the proximal causes and balanced against the potential for gains in cover through growth and recruitment. In this study, a population of M. annularis in St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands, was censused annually from 1988 to 2003 to quantify coral cover and construct a size-based demographic model. The model was developed to explore the mechanisms of change in coral cover and to ascertain likely trajectories for future population growth. Over the study period, the cover of M. annularis declined from 41% in 1988, to 12% by 1999 (a 72% decline) but remained unchanged statistically for the last five years of the study. Between 1988 and 2003, colony abundances declined by 57% (from 47 colonies/m2 to 20 colonies/m2), and the losses were driven mostly by the death and fission of medium to large colonies (i.e., 151 cm2). By 2003, the population had proportionally more small colonies (70% were 50 cm2) and fewer large colonies (3% were >250 cm2) than in 1988 (60% and 6%, respectively), and the changes in population structure had accelerated 14% in terms of the rate of change in population size and the time necessary to attain equilibrium of colony size structure. Importantly, this analysis revealed an ongoing and imminent population decline coincident with the recent period of apparently stable coral cover. Fifty-year projections indicate the strong likelihood of extirpation of M. annularis at this particular site in St. John (in contrast to a continuation of constant low cover) and suggest that the 1988 population structure cannot be restored by recruitment. It is unlikely that the population decline will reverse until there is an amelioration of the conditions that kill individual colonies.
4134800|We explored foraging strategies used by marine animals to search for prey by examining the relative importance of information exchange and memory in a cold ocean environment from 1998 to 2000. Recent technological advances have increased our knowledge of the foraging patterns of marine predators, but few of these studies have concurrently measured prey distribution and behavior. We quantified the arrival and departure behavior of a pursuit-diving, colonial seabird, the Common Murre, Uria aalge, at two colonies on the eastern Newfoundland Shelf through observational techniques. We also measured the distribution, abundance, and behavior of the capelin, Mallotus villosus, the main prey species of murres, within foraging ranges of each colony, using hydroacoustic, vessel-based techniques. Return and departure flight directions of murres did not match at either colony during the same period. This indicated that murres departing colonies did not use information on prey distributions outside of visual range of the colony provided by the flight paths of returning flocks of birds to the colony carrying fish. High-abundance aggregations of capelin were reliably found within specific 2.25-km areas ("hot spots") for up to two weeks within the foraging ranges of murres from both colonies (~100 km). This circumstance suggests that murres could use memory to locate hot spots on the coarse scale (1-100 km) of foraging ranges from both colonies. Specific commuting routes (regular flight paths) of murres toward and away from hot spots were obvious at sea, and feeding murres consistently marked the location of capelin schools within hot spots. These distributions provided excellent conditions for murres to locate capelin schools on both coarse and fine (1-1000 m) scales by cueing to the activities of conspecifics, known as local enhancement. While central-place foraging from breeding colonies, murres likely use a mixture of memory and local enhancement to locate prey, depending on the spatial and temporal resolution of search and current prey conditions. Uncovering such behavioral mechanisms responsible for predator-prey interactions increases our understanding of linkages among trophic levels and, ultimately, ecosystem dynamics.
10.2307/2963467|Ecological studies, including those focusing on coastal eutrophication, vary in the emphasis they place on species-level vs. ecosystem-level processes. The degree of variation among interacting species in their response to perturbations to the physical environment is likely to be important in determining when species- or population-level processes will strongly affect attributes measured at higher levels of ecological organization. We conducted mesocosm and small-scale laboratory experiments to determine how low oxygen affects predation rates in a zooplankton-fish larvae-larval predator food web typical of mesohaline areas in the Chesapeake Bay. Dissolved oxygen concentrations in bottom waters of the Chesapeake Bay decline during summer to levels that can be physiologically stressful or lethal to animals dependent on aerobic respiration. Our results indicate that the effects of low oxygen on trophic interactions vary among interacting pairs of species in the food web studied. Low but nonlethal dissolved oxygen concentrations greatly increased predation on fish larvae (mostly naked goby Gobiosoma bosc) by sea nettles (the scyphomedusan jellyfish Chrysaora quinquecirrha) but decreased predation by juvenile striped bass (Morone saxatilis). Predation by a single predator, the sea nettle, increased for fish larvae, decreased for fish eggs (Anchoa mitchilli), and was significantly but not strongly affected for copepods (mostly Acartia tonsa) at low dissolved oxygen concentrations. Changes in predator-prey interactions reflected variation among species in their physiological tolerance to low oxygen and the effects of low oxygen on the escape behavior of prey, as well as on swimming and feeding behaviors of predators. Because of the variation in effects on trophic interactions, low dissolved oxygen has the potential to cause major alterations in the relative importance of different pathways of energy flow in the Chesapeake Bay and in other estuarine systems.
10.2307/3100067|Most studies of density-dependent demography in plants consider the density only of the single focal species being studied. However, density-dependent regulation in plants may frequently occur at the level of the entire community, rather than only within particular species. In addition, because density dependence may differ considerably (even in direction) among demographic parameters, generalizing about patterns of density dependence and extrapolating to lifetime fitness and to population dynamics require comparisons among life history stages, as well as among types of species and physical environments. We constructed seminatural communities of desert annuals composed of all the constituent species in the same relative proportions as found in the natural habitat. These experimental communities were planted at a range of densities that extended far above and below mean natural field density. We compared among physical environments (irrigation treatments), among communities from different physical environments, and among growth forms (dicot and graminoid) to search for generalizations about the magnitude and direction of density dependence. Strong evidence of community-level density dependence was detected at all three life history stages studied in these desert annuals: emergence, survival, and final size. However, both the direction and degree of consistency of this density dependence varied considerably among the stages. The strongest and most consistent competitive effects were experienced at the emergence stage, where the mechanism is most likely a form of interference competition rather than exploitation competition. At the survival stage, the magnitude of effects was highly variable among physical environments and source communities, but negative effects were relatively rare, with either positive or no significant effects of increasing density. Thus, exploitation competition was also unimportant at the survival stage. In contrast, for growth, exploitation competition appeared to be the primary mechanism of interaction influencing growth. This variation in mechanism, direction, and magnitude of interactions among life history stages suggests that current models of plant community structure that are based largely on exploitation competition as it influences growth (with mortality a simple function of growth) are inadequate for even this simple annual plant community. We also compared growth forms and found that graminoids were superior competitors to dicots at the emergence and survival stages; they also had higher emergence and survival, regardless of density. Consistent with this result, grasses are always the numerical dominants in the source communities. In contrast, the two growth forms did not differ in competitive ability for growth, and dicots were consistently larger individuals, independent of density, even though grasses were also usually the biomass dominants in the source communities. These results suggest the importance of nontrophic mechanisms of interaction in controlling community structure and again emphasize the importance of constructing and testing models that incorporate multiple mechanisms of interactions.
10.2307/2657230|The consequences of permanent loss of species or species groups from plant communities are poorly understood, although there is increasing evidence that individual species effects are important in modifying ecosystem properties. We conducted a field experiment in a New Zealand perennial grassland ecosystem, creating artificial vegetation gaps and imposing manipulation treatments on the reestablishing vegetation. Treatments consisted of continual removal of different subsets or "functional groups" of the flora. We monitored vegetation and soil biotic and chemical properties over a 3-yr period. Plant competitive effects were clear: removal of the C
10.2307/1942495|Rates of herbivory and defensive characteristics of young and mature leaves were measured for saplings of 46 canopy tree species in a lowland tropical rain forest (Barro Colorado Island, Panama). Grazing rates were determined in the field for sample periods in the early wet, late wet, and dry seasons. Leaf properties such as pubescence, toughness, water, protein, fiber, and phenolic contents explained over 70% of the variation among plant species in the rates of herbivory on mature leaves. Leaf toughness was most highly correlated with levels of herbivory, followed by fiber content and nutritive value. Phenol content and phenol: protein ratios were not significantly correlated with damage. Mature leaves of gap-colonizing species were grazed six times more rapidly than leaves of shade-tolerant species. Gap-colonizers have less tough leaves, lower concentrations of fiber and phenolics, higher levels of nitrogen and water, shorter leaf lifetimes, and faster growth rates than do shade-tolerant species. Gap-colonizers did not escape discovery by herbivores to any greater extent than shade-tolerant species, as measured by the spatial distribution of plants or by the intraspecific distribution of herbivore damage under natural or experimentally manipulated conditions. In 70% of the species, young leaves suffered higher damage levels than mature leaves. Although young leaves are more nutritious and less tough and fibrous, they have two to three times the concentrations of phenols. The temporal appearance of young leaves was not correlated with the distribution of herbivory among individuals of a species. Interspecific patterns of defense mechanisms are discussed in terms of current theories of plant apparency, and an alternative model for the evolution of plant defenses is presented.
10.2307/2963482|A series of time-specific food webs for the macroinvertebrate riffle community of Duffin Creek, Ontario was constructed using dietary information obtained from the analysis of gut contents. Trophic links were quantified using a dietary index of relative importance. Precision of the analysis was maintained at a high level by: (1) identifying dietary items as accurately as possible via direct gut analysis; (2) identifying web members to the species level, thus avoiding the taxonomic aggregation and lumping of size classes common in food web analyses; and (3) ensuring temporal resolution of the web by determining ontogenic variation in the diets of dominant members of the community. The Duffin Creek webs are heavily detritus-based with a large proportion of top-to-basal, and intermediate-to-basal links. Top-to-basal links, proportions of top and intermediate species, and lower connectance (0.180-0.219) varied temporally. Trophic connectance ranged from 0.090 to 0.109, consistent with values expected for a web consisting largely of specialist feeders. Weak links made up the largest proportion of total links in the webs, whereas very strong links made up the smallest proportion. Omnivory was more common than indicated in other webs and can be attributed to ontogenic diet switching. Comparison of the statistics for a summary web with those generated for the time-specific webs indicated that the total number of links per web, total number of species, number of top and intermediate species, and linkage density were much greater for the summary web. In view of these differences, the importance of temporal resolution when assessing food web structure and dynamics is emphasized. The possibility that some of the observed features in our web are common to other detritus-based webs is considered. Future studies of this calibre are justified.
10.2307/1942410|This study compares the structure of the limnetic zooplankton communities of four very different lakes ranging from an oligotrophic Great Lake to a small dystrophic reservoir. Only filter feeding cladocerans and calanoid copepods are considered. Using Levins' Theory of the Niche analysis, I measured habitat overlap values for each species pair to determine to what extent habitat selection can explain the number of limnetic zooplankton species coexisting in these lakes and to what extent other factors, such as resource allocation or differential predation, must be invoked to explain the observed diversity. A substantial portion of the ecological overlap of zooplankton populations can be alleviated by habitat selection. Zooplankton communities are dominated by two to three species, in both numerical abundance and grazing intensity. In Lake Michigan (large, oligotrophic), habitat selection was the major mechanism of competitive coexistence and it was achieved by extensive vertical migrations (mean a = .47). In Gull Lake (small, mesotrophic), habitat selection via vertical migration also predominated (mean a = .37) as the major mechanism of competitive coexistence. Three species, Diaptomus sp., Daphnia retrocurva, and Daphnia galeata exhibited high habitat overlap coefficients. In Cranberry Lake, a dystrophic reservoir, most species possessed high overlap coefficients (mean a = .62) and minimal migration amplitudes. Diaptomus spp. and Daphnia catawba predominated. In Lake George, a medium-sized oligotrophic lake, mean habitat overlap was also high (mean 2 = .65). The three dominant species were Diaptomus sp., Diaphanosoma leuchtenbergianum and Daphina galeata. For the latter two communities, which possessed similar high and mean overlap values, the basic equation was weighted by the standing crop and turnover rate of phytoplankton. The spatial--temporal positioning of the Lake George populations were correlated with algal standing crop and turnover patterns while the Cranberry Lake populations were not.
10.2307/2657234|Predator-prey dynamics and density dependence are fundamental issues in ecology. We use a detailed, individual-based model of walleye and yellow perch to investigate the effects of alternative prey and compensatory responses on predator and prey population dynamics. Our analyses focus on the numerical and developmental responses of the predator, rather than the traditional emphasis on functional responses. The extensive database for Oneida Lake, New York, USA was used to configure the model and ensure its realism. The model follows the daily growth, mortality, and spawning of individuals of each species through their lifetime. Three ecologically distinct periods in the history of Oneida Lake were simulated: baseline, high mayfly densities, and high forage fish densities. Mayflies and forage fish act as alternative prey for walleye. For model corroboration, the three periods were simulated sequentially as they occurred in Oneida Lake. Model predictions of abundances, size at age, and growth and survival rates compared favorably with Oneida Lake data. Three hypotheses suggested by the data were evaluated: alternative prey stabilizes yellow perch and walleye populations; alternative prey increases yellow perch and walleye recruitment; and density-dependent growth and survival compensate for changes in young-of-the-year mortality. Model simulations were performed under increased mayfly densities, increased forage fish densities, and increased egg mortality rates. Predicted recruitment and population stability depended on the magnitude of increased walleye prey and differed between mayflies and forage fish. Compensation was driven by density-dependent growth, resulting in younger age at maturation and increased fecundity. We compare our results using a detailed, size-structured model capable of numerical and developmental responses of predators to results from classical predator-prey theory. Weaknesses in the current version of the individual-based model and knowledge gaps that require additional empirical data collection are also discussed.
27646118|There is now compelling evidence that microbially mediated reactions impart a significant effect upon the dynamics, composition, and abundance of nutrients in glacial melt water. Consequently, we must now consider ice masses as ecosystem habitats in their own right and address their diversity, functional potential, and activity as part of alpine and polar environments. Although such research is already underway, its fragmentary nature provides little basis for developing modern concepts of glacier ecology. This paper therefore provides a much-needed framework for development by reviewing the physical, biogeochemical, and microbiological characteristics of microbial habitats that have been identified within glaciers and ice sheets. Two key glacial ecosystems emerge, one inhabiting the glacier surface (the supraglacial ecosystem) and one at the ice-bed interface (the subglacial ecosystem). The supraglacial ecosystem is characterized by a diverse consortium of microbes (usually bacteria, algae, phytoflagellates, fungi, viruses and occasional rotifers, tardigrades, and diatoms) within the snowpack, supraglacial streams, and melt pools (cryoconite holes). The subglacial system is dominated by aerobic/anaerobic bacteria and most probably viruses in basal ice/till mixtures and subglacial lakes. A third, so-called englacial ecosystem is also described, but it is demonstrated that conditions within glacier ice are sufficient to make metabolic activity and its impact upon nutrient dynamics negligible at the glacier scale. Consideration of the surface and internal heat balances of the glacier show that all glacial ecosystems are sensitive to climate change, although at different timescales. Thus, while rapid, melt-driven habitat changes lead to melt-out, resuscitation, and redistribution of microorganisms in many supraglacial ecosystems, much slower climatic and glacial mass-balance processes effect such changes in the subglacial ecosystem. Paradoxically, it is shown that these forces have brought about net refreezing and the onset of cryostasis in the subglacial ecosystems of many Arctic glaciers subject to thinning in recent decades.
10.2307/1942254|A study of four yellow pine chipmunk (Eutamias amoenus) populations distributed along a steep environmental gradient in central Oregon revealed differences verifying a prediction of high evolutionary potential at distributional borders of species occupying unstable environments. Population density was lowest on the coniferous forest edge of the ponderosa pine transition zone (Spiders population), highest near the center of the transition zone (Main Grid), and intermediate in populations at the desert periphery of the ponderosa zone (Cabin Lake) and isolated in a disjunct ponderosa forest on the Oregon High Desert (Lost Forest). Attrition of adult @M @M was greatest during the oversummer periods, and was more likely due to predation than to dispersal. Attrition of adult @V @V was greatest during the overwinter periods. During this period, winter food caches may be exhausted before new supplies appear; these shortages, combined with increases in @V energy demand associated with gestation and rearing of young, may have contributed to overwinter starvation. Significantly higher adult @V body weight at the edge of the dense coniferous forest suggests an adaptive response to spring food shortages caused by late snowpacks and by cool weather inhibition of foraging. At the desert edge of the ponderosa forest, increased body weight may instead be an adaptive response to spring food shortages resulting from fewer seed-producers and from competition with least chipmunks (Eutamias minimus). Competitive advantage among chipmunks is commonly associated with larger size, and E. amoenus @M @M at Lost Forest, which were nearest to E. minimus in body weight, showed the greatest increase over central population weights. Observations at the Main Grid, Cabin Lake and Lost Forest showed behavioral characteristics of the populations to be generally similar, although significant populational differences in activity budgeting were observed. Higher population density at the Main Grid led to a much higher level of positive social interactions with a much higher percentage of aggressive chasing and fighting than at other sites. At Cabin Lake weather had a strong influence on activity budgeting and habitat orientation. Lost Forest chipmunks exhibited a greater proportion of protective behavior (especially alarm vocalizations), suggesting an adaptation by which the population may reduce danger from predation due to low protective cover without restricting the area over which individuals may safely forage. This same population appeared to have adjusted activity budgets to avoid high desert temperatures by foraging more in early hours and orienting more toward the shade of trees and shrubs in later hours. These trends were less pronounced in the peripheral forest-edge population and were reversed in the central population. When foraging, individuals from all populations oriented most strongly toward shrubs, then open ground, slash piles, and trees; they oriented least strongly toward rocks, stumps, or logs. Chipmunks involved in maintenance or protective activities showed a nearly reversed order of preference for the same habitat features. These and other observations suggest that, contrary to recent literature, presently observed lines of contact between allopatric chipmunk species do not represent dynamic tension zones established and maintained in delicate balance by aggressive interactions. Rather, they represent extremely stable distributional limits established through habitat selection as a mechanism by which smaller species may avoid fruitless as well as energetically costly competitive encounters with larger species.
10.2307/1942578|Primary productivity and herbivory were studied in the Serengeti National Park, Tanzania, and Masai Mara Game Reserve, Kenya, during the annual cycle of 1974-1975, and wet-dry season transitions in 1976-1979. Basic state variables measured were aboveground plant biomass inside permanent and temporary fences, and outside fences. Productivity was calculated as the sum of positive plant biomass increments. Control productivity (cPn) was calculated from biomass dynamics inside permanent fences. Temporary fences were moved in concert with grazing by the region's abundant ungulates to estimate actual aboveground primary productivity (aPn). Primary productivity was highly stochastic with productive periods poorly synchronized even among nearby sites. Short-term productivities could be extremely high, exceeding 30 g@?m^-^2@?d^-^1. Grazing animals adjusted their densities in relation to grassland productivity. The average proportion of annual aPn that was consumed by herbivores was 0.66, with a minimum of 0.15 and a maximum of 0.94. Green forage was available everywhere late in the wet season in May but was available only at high rainfall sites in the northwest late in the dry season in November. By the end of the dry season, the residual plant biomass outside fences averaged only 8% of cPn. Nomadic grazers moved seasonally in response to grassland productivity. The growing season ranged from 76 d in low rainfall areas to virtually continuous in high rainfall areas. Annual cPn was linearly related to rainfall and averaged 357 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 over the year and 1.89 g@?m^-^2@?d^-^1 during the growing season. Actual aPn was substantially greater than cPn at most sites, averaging 664 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1. Growing season aPn averaged 3.78 g@?m^-^2@?d^-^1. Grazing stimulated net primary productivity at most locations, with the maximum stimulation at intermediate grazing intensities. Stimulation was dependent upon soil moisture status at the time of grazing. Rain had a diminishing effect on primary productivity as the wet season progressed and plant biomass accumulated. Part of the stimulation of grassland productivity by grazing was due to maintenance of the vegetation in an immature, rapidly growing state similar to that at the beginning of the rainy season. Since grazers overrode rainfall-determined productivity patterns, aPn was more closely related to grazing intensity than to ranfall. Grazing was heavier on grasslands that were intrinsically more productive. Rate of energy flow per unit of plant biomass was much higher in grazed vegetation. Grazers ate green leaves almost exclusively during the wet season, but species composition of the diets of different grazers differed markedly. Diets of nomadic grazers were very different in the wet and dry seasons. Vegetation dried out rapidly at the onset of the dry season and dry plant tissues made up a substantial proportion of ungulate dry season diets. However, green forage commonly was more abundant in diets than in the vegetation. Grazing increased both forage quality and its rate of production. Zebras supplemented a high-bulk diet by eating the seeds of awnless grasses. The foraging patterns of different grazers were differentiated by several vegetation properties, including productivity, structure, and species composition, in a manner suggesting resource partitioning. The relationship between the stability of vegetation functional properties and community species diversity was positive in five of seven tests. Greater species diversity was associated with greater biomass stability through the seasons, greater resistance to grazing by a single species of ungulate in both the wet and dry seasons, and greater resilience after grazing. Species diversity was not associated with greater resistance to grazing by several ungulate species or to plant species extinction. Specific properties of trophic web members were identified that produced greater functional stability in more diverse communities. Fire does not appear to have important effects upon the functional properties of the grasslands except for a weak stimulation of productivity in the wet season immediately following dry season burning. Fire did have an important effect upon structural properties of the vegetation that would tend to regulate ungulate feeding. The ecology of neither the plants nor the animals in the Serengeti ecosystem can be understood in isolation; many traits of both suggest coevolution among trophic web members. The functional dynamics of the trophic web suggest that the acceleration of energy and nutrient flow rates due to intense herbivory has resulted in the development of an entire consumer food web due to additive fluxes rather than mere quasi-parasitic fluxes from plants to animals.
10.2307/2657209|We studied the influence of corridors on the community structure of old-growth forest mammals across a fragmented ecosystem, the Olympic National Forest, Washington, USA. This region of once contiguous forest has been transformed by logging into a mosaic of landscape features including clearcuts, second-growth forest, and old-growth forest patches and corridors. To assess corridor utility, we quantified among- and within-corridor variability in community structure, landscape indices, and habitat descriptors. Discriminant analyses showed that the four corridors studied differed significantly both in species assemblages (P < 0.05) and in habitat characteristics (P < 0.005). Changes along individual corridors were primarily associated with adjacent habitat. The proportion of adjacent old-growth forest significantly decreased along two of the four corridors, reflecting this system's fragmentation gradient of an increasingly disturbed landscape matrix. The number of forest species found in corridor sites was significantly correlated with this matrix: less old-growth forest surrounding a corridor site resulted in fewer forest-dependent species. Width of the corridor at a site and site isolation often acted singly or in combination with the fragmentation gradient as an influence on community structure. This was also the case for many individual species. Demographic measures suggested that, while reproduction is occurring along these corridors, levels are lower than in continuous forest. Finally, data showed that, while forest species richness and occurrence of specific forest species were consistently higher in corridors than in the surrounding matrix, these patterns were driven primarily by differences between corridors and clearcuts. These results suggest that, although these corridors appear to be effective and may possibly serve as demographic sources of individuals, they should not be considered equivalent to one another. Only by considering corridors individually can their respective value be determined. For the Olympic National Forest, this value is significant, with the use of a combination of different corridors comprising a viable supplement to maintaining continuous forest for long-term preservation of biodiversity.
10.2307/1942212|Pollen analysis of several cores from the Dismal Swamp in southeastern Virginia have indicated that the swamp is a relatively young feature, having begun to develop along drainage lows as recently as the late-glacial. Formation of extensive fresh-water marshes along streams appears to have been brought about by general water-table changes controlled by the post glacial rise of sea level. As the sea continued to rise, marsh development proceeded inland and fine-grained organic sediments began to accumulate. By 6,000 years B.P. approximately 50% of Dismal Swamp area had been mantled by fine-grained peat deposits. From 6,000 to 3,500 B. P. peat accumulation continued, but at an appreciably lower rate. The corresponds both to the hypsithermal interval and to a distinct slackening in the rate of sea-level rise. By 3,500 B.P. peat had mantled virtually all of the interfluves and @'islands@' within the swamp. The pollen diagrams suggest a gradual change from boreal spruce-pine forests during the full-glacial, to somewhat less boreal pine-spruce during the early late-glacial, to hardwood forests containing many species characteristic of the present northern hardwoods forests during the latter portion of the late-glacial, to hardwood-dominated forests containing species now found in southeastern Virginia during the early postglacial. Although precise vegetational and environmental reconstructions are not possible, this general sequence suggests a unidirectional climatic amelioration from conditions comparable to those in northern New England during the full-glacial to a climate comparable to the present by 8,000 years B.P. The climate may have been warmer and drier during the hypsithermal, but the observed changes could just as easily be a result of a slackening in the rate of sea-level rise. The cypress-gum forests that have characterized the Dismal Swamp for the past 3,500 years have been variable both spatially and temporally. These variations doubtless reflect local differences in water table, peat depth, fires, wind throws, and a variety of human disturbances. The origin of Lake Drummond remains an enigma. It is a young feature of the swamp, apparently originating only 4,000 years ago. It is not the last vestige of an earlier open-water phase of the swamp.
10.2307/1942196|Variations in abundance and distribution of bird species and avifaunal and community organization at regional, local, and within-plot levels were studied during 1969 and 1970 at a shortgrass prairie in Colorado and during 1970 at six additional International Biological Program (IBP) grassland sites. Patterns were generally not distinct at the regional level, although low rainfall sites tended to support fewer individuals and less biomass than more mesic sites. The dominant bird species were widely distributed, but 70% of all species recorded were present at only one of the seven sites. Local plot-to-plot differences, associated with grazing intensity, were considerably more important than the regional differences. Vegetational and avifaunal relationships of plots were determined by similarity-cluster analysis and by examination of vegetation structure. Variations in the number of breeding bird species, bird-species diversity, or equitability, were unrelated to the gradient of plots from tallgrass through shortgrass to desert, but standing crop biomass generally decreased along this gradient. The plots differed in the proportions of small, medium, and large-sized species. Shortgrass sites were generally dominated by omnivorous species; plots with a greater vegetation structure supported more carnivorous forms. Only carnivorous species occurred at the desert site. The effect of grazing on bird populations varied among the treatment plots at the various sites. In the Colorado shortgrass prairie, grazing season had a greater effect on community organization than grazing intensity. Patterns of variation were much more pronounced when single species rather than breeding faunas were considered. Grasshoppers, Lepidoptera larvae, beetles (especially curculionids, carabids, cerambycids, and scarabaeids), ants, and various seeds were the most important prey of the dominant bird species. Small sparrows and larks had generally similar diets. The diets of the larger meadowlarks and shorebirds differed from those of the former group and also differed from each other. The proportion of seeds and arthropods in the diets of Lark Buntings and Horned Larks varied considerably with time. Diurnal raptors, studied at only one site, were widely dispersed, occurring at densities and standing crops substantially less than those of small passerine populations. Owls preyed chiefly upon small mammals and insects, but the proportions of these food items in the diet differed significantly among the four species studied. The estimated energy intake of the breeding bird populations from April through August ranged from 1.01 to 2.33 kcal/m^2; thus the energy flux through avian consumers in grasslands is apparently very small. In general, seeds decreased in importance as energy sources and arthropods increased in importance along a gradient from shortgrass through mixed grass to tallgrass plots. Secondary production estimated for six grazing-treatment plots ranged from 3.9 to 6.9 x 10^-^3 g/m^2. The role of birds as consumers in the dynamics of grassland ecosystems is considered. It is suggested that birds may act as controllers of other elements of system function or may not be closely evolved into the functional framework of the ecosystem at all, existing on @'excesses@' in production.
40385233|Phenotypic plasticity has been studied intensively in experimental settings but infrequently in nature, and therefore the relevance of experimental findings is poorly known. This is especially true for morphological plasticity in amphibian larvae induced by predators and competitors. This paper describes a seven-year survey of head and tail shape in eight species of anuran and newt larvae in northern Switzerland, involving 6824 individual larvae and 59 ponds. I tested relationships between geometric measures of size and shape and five habitat gradients: pond permanence, cover by forest canopy and aquatic vegetation, and the densities of predators and competitors. Responses to competitors and predators were often similar to those reported in experiments. High competitor density was associated with small size and a large head in newt larvae, a long or deep head/body in anuran larvae, and a short or shallow tail in newts and some tadpoles. High predator density was correlated with a deep tail fin and tail muscle in many species. In anurans, the change in shape between low-and highpredator ponds in nature closely paralleled the plastic response to nonlethal predators in mesocosm experiments. The survey revealed many previously undescribed relationships between morphology and the other habitat features. Several species had relatively large tails in ponds that were shaded or thickly vegetated. Associations between year-to-year changes in shape and habitat within ponds implicated phenotypic plasticity rather than genetic population divergence, at least in anurans. These results inspire confidence in the relevance of experiments and highlight many new patterns that will merit further study.
10.2307/2937317|We conducted field experiments to test the general hypothesis that the composition of decomposer communities and their trophic interactions can influence patterns of plant litter decomposition and nitrogen dynamics in ecosystems. Conventional (CT) and no-tillage (NT) agroecosystems were used to test this idea because of their structural simplicity and known differences in their functional properties. Biocides were applied to experimentally exclude bacteria, saprophytic fungi, and microarthropods in field exclosures. Abundances of decomposer organisms (bacteria, fungi, protozoa, nematodes, microarthropods), decomposition rates, and nitrogen fluxes were quantified in surface and buried litterbags (Secale cereale litter) placed in both NT and CT systems. Measurements of in situ soil respiration rates were made concurrently. The abundance and biomass of all microbial and faunal groups were greater on buried than surface litter. The mesofauna contributed more to the total heterotrophic C in buried litter from CT (6-22%) than in surface litter from NT (0.4-11%). Buried litter decay rates (1.4-1.7%/d) were @?2.5 times faster than rates for surface litter (0.5-0.7%/d). Ratios of fungal to bacterial biomass and fungivore to bacterivore biomass on NT surface litter generally increased over the study period resulting in ratios that were 2.7 and 2.2 times greater, respectively, than those of CT buried litter by the end of the summer. The exclusion experiments showed that fungi had a somewhat greater influence on the decomposition of surface litter from NT while bacteria were more important in the decomposition of buried litter from CT. The fungicide and bactericide reduced decomposition rates of NT surface litter by 36 and 25% of controls, respectively, while in CT buried litter they were reduced by 21 and 35% of controls, respectively. Microarthropods were more important in mobilizing surface litter nitrogen by grazing on fungi than in contributing to litter mass loss. Where fungivorous microarthropods were experimentally excluded, there was less than a 5% reduction in mass loss from litter of both NT and CT, but fungi--fungivore interactions were important in regulating litter N dynamics in NT surface litter. As fungal densities increased following the exclusion of microarthropods on NT surface litter, there was 25% greater N retention as compared to the control after 56 d of decay. Saprophytic fungi were responsible for as much as 86% of the net N immobilized (1.81 g/m^2) in surface litter by the end of the study when densities of fungivorous microarthropods were low. Although bacteria were important in regulating buried litter decomposition rates and the population dynamics of bacterivorous fauna, their influence on buried litter N dynamics remains less clear. The larger microbial biomass and greater contribution of a bacterivorous fauna on buried litter is consistent with the greater carbon losses and lower carbon assimilation in CT than NT agroecosystems. In summary, our results suggest that litter placement can strongly influence the composition of decomposer communities and that the resulting trophic relationships are important to determining the rates and timing of plant litter decomposition and N dynamics. Furthermore, cross placement studies suggest that the decomposer communities within each tillage system, while not discrete, are adapted to the native litter placements in each.
10.2307/2657207|Sexual segregation in foraging is predicted from the great size disparity of male and female northern elephant seals, Mirounga angustirostris. Our aim was to test this prediction by measuring diving and foraging behavior, foraging locations, and distribution of the sexes during biannual migrations in the northeastern Pacific Ocean. Daily movements of 27 adult males and 20 adult females, during 56 migrations from Ano Nuevo, California, USA, were determined by Argos satellite telemetry via head-mounted platform transmitter terminals. Diving records were obtained with archival time-depth-speed recorders attached to the backs of seals that were recovered when the seals returned to the rookery. Pronounced sex differences were found in foraging location and foraging pattern, as reflected by horizontal transit speed and diving behavior. Males moved directly north or northwest at a mean speed of 90  27 km/d to focal foraging areas along the continental margin ranging from coastal Oregon (534 km away) to the western Aleutian Islands (4775 km away). Males remained in these areas (mean size = 7892 km
10.2307/1948496|The population dynamics and energetics of two populations of Diaptomus gracilis have been studied in two Thames Valley reservoirs. The seasonal changes in the standing crop biomass varied from a low of 0.3 Cal/m^2 to a high of 7 Cal/m^2. Although the population overwintered primarily as adults, reproduction was continuous throughout the year. From the mortality rate the production has been estimated to be 52 and 48 Cal/m^2 for the Queen Elizabeth II and King George VI reservoirs, respectively. Feeding and respiratory rates of D. gracilis were measured both in the laboratory and in the field simultaneously with the population dynamics in the reservoir. The feeding rate and the rate of assimilation varied with the species of phytoplankton used as food. Filtering rates varied from 0.1 ml copepod^-^1 day^-^1 on bacteria to a high of 2.54 on Diplosphaeria, the latter also having an assimilation efficiency of 78% by D. gracilis. Respiratory rates varied with the season. When the metabolic rate was plotted against body weight, evidence of three regression lines during the year was found, the lowest slope in the winter and the highest in the late spring and early summer. When the regression of oxygen consumption on weight and temperature was calculated, it was necessary to calculate two lines, one for the fall-winter period and one for the spring-summer.
10.2307/3100064|Quantification of the flux of carbon (C) through different pathways is critical to predict the impact of global change on terrestrial ecosystems. Past research has encountered considerable difficulty in separating root exudation, root turnover rate, and other belowground C fluxes as affected by elevated CO
27646072|Theory and empirical evidence suggest that spatial and temporal variation in propagule availability can have as great or greater an influence on community structure as post-recruitment biotic interactions, a phenomenon known as supply-side ecology. One of the first theories to invoke supply-side dynamics, D. Rabinowitz's Tidal Sorting Hypothesis (TSH), attributed the tidal zonation of mangrove tree species to the interacting effects of water depth and propagule size on dispersal and establishment. According to the TSH, smaller propagules are carried farther inland by flood tides than larger ones, stranding and establishing in greater numbers at upper tidal elevations. In contrast, larger propagules are better able to establish in deeper, more seaward areas because their size affords greater access to the soil surface and resistance to buffeting by moving water. Here we present results of the first comprehensive investigation of the TSH. In a series of experiments conducted at Punta Galeta on the Caribbean coast of Panama, we quantified patterns of propagule dispersal and establishment of the three dominant species: Avicennia germinans, Laguncularia racemosa, and Rhizophora mangle. To measure dispersal patterns, we monitored movements (directions and distances) of marked propagules released at three elevations along each of three transects. On all transects, regardless of species or elevation, propagules moved seaward rather than being carried inland by tides, as predicted by the TSH. Rates of seedling establishment were monitored in experiments conducted at different tidal elevations. Contrary to the TSH, all three species established best in the lower intertidal, where they were in prolonged contact with the soil surface during low tides, and established more poorly in the upper intertidal basin, where standing water made rooting difficult. Seedling establishment was lowest in the wave-exposed, back reef habitat, but in accordance with the TSH, the large propagules of Rhizophora rooted and persisted better in this turbulent habitat than did the smaller propagules of the other species. We conclude that the TSH does not explain the vertical distributions of mangrove species on Punta Galeta. Rather, a different form of supply-side dynamics imposed by the strong seaward movement of dispersing propagules is important in structuring our study forests.
10.2307/2963459|This paper presents a new and simple method to find indicator species and species assemblages characterizing groups of sites. The novelty of our approach lies in the way we combine a species relative abundance with its relative frequency of occurrence in the various groups of sites. This index is maximum when all individuals of a species are found in a single group of sites and when the species occurs in all sites of that group; it is a symmetric indicator. The statistical significance of the species indicator values is evaluated using a randomization procedure. Contrary to TWINSPAN, our indicator index for a given species is independent of the other species relative abundances, and there is no need to use pseudospecies. The new method identifies indicator species for typologies of species releves obtained by any hierarchical or nonhierarchical classification procedure; its use is independent of the classification method. Because indicator species give ecological meaning to groups of sites, this method provides criteria to compare typologies, to identify where to stop dividing clusters into subsets, and to point out the main levels in a hierarchical classification of sites. Species can be grouped on the basis of their indicator values for each clustering level, the heterogeneous nature of species assemblages observed in any one site being well preserved. Such assemblages are usually a mixture of eurytopic (higher level) and stenotopic species (characteristic of lower level clusters). The species assemblage approach demonstrates the importance of the "sampled patch size," i.e., the diversity of sampled ecological combinations, when we compare the frequencies of core and satellite species. A new way to present species-site tables, accounting for the hierarchical relationships among species, is proposed. A large data set of carabid beetle distributions in open habitats of Belgium is used as a case study to illustrate the new method.
10.2307/3100092| Studies in global plant biogeography have almost exclusively analyzed relationships of abiotic and biotic factors with the distribution and structure of vegetation aboveground. The goal of this study was to extend such analyses to the belowground structure of vegetation by determining the biotic and abiotic factors that influence vertical root distributions in the soil, including soil, climate, and plant properties. The analysis used a database of vertical root profiles from the literature with 475 profiles from 209 geographic locations. Since most profiles were not sampled to the maximum rooting depth, several techniques were used to estimate the amount of roots at greater depths, to a maximum of 3 m in some systems. The accuracy of extrapolations was tested using a subset of deeply (>2 m) sampled or completely sampled profiles. Vertical root distributions for each profile were characterized by the interpolated 50% and 95% rooting depths (the depths above which 50% or 95% of all roots were located). General linear models incorporating plant life-form dominance, climate, and soil variables explained as much as 50% of the variance in rooting depths for various biomes and life-forms. Annual potential evapotranspiration (PET) and precipitation together accounted for the largest proportion of the variance (12-16% globally and 38% in some systems). Mean 95% rooting depths increased with decreasing latitude from 80 to 30 but showed no clear trend in the tropics. Annual PET, annual precipitation, and length of the warm season were all positively correlated with rooting depths. Rooting depths in tropical vegetation were only weakly correlated with climatic variables but were strongly correlated with sampling depths, suggesting that even after extrapolation, sampling depths there were often insufficient to characterize root profiles. Globally, >90% of all profiles had at least 50% of all roots in the upper 0.3 m of the soil profile (including organic horizons) and 95% of all roots in the upper 2 m. Deeper rooting depths were mainly found in water-limited ecosystems. Deeper 95% rooting depths were also found for shrublands compared to grasslands, in sandy soils vs. clay or loam soils, and in systems with relatively shallow organic horizons compared with deeper organic horizons. 
10.2307/2937158|To determine the patterns of occurrence and importance of indirect effects relative to direct effects in natural communities, I analyzed experimentally based studies from 23 rocky intertidal habitats. The vehicle of analysis was the construction of interaction webs, or the subset of species in food webs involved in strong interactions. The analysis focused on indirect effects involving changes in abundance, or interaction chains, since little information was available on other types of indirect effects (behavioral, chemical response, environmental). As expected, number of direct (= strong) interactions, indirect effects, interaction sequences producing indirect effects, and types of indirect effects (e.g., keystone predation, apparent competition, etc.) all increased with web species richness. Less expected, when these measures were adjusted to a per species basis, positive relationships with species richness were still observed for all measures but the number of types. In other words, with increasing web diversity, each species interacted strongly with more species, was involved in more indirect effects, and was part of more interaction pathways. The analysis identified 83 subtypes of indirect effect, including the seven previously identified types. Many of the 76 additional types could be reclassified into the seven types if the original definitions of these @'classic@' types were expanded to include interactions having similar effects but differing in the specific mechanism (e.g., both interference competition and inhibition of recruitment [preemption] have negative effects involving a spatial resource). Two new types of indirect effect, termed @'apparent predation@' and @'indirect defense@' were also identified, producing a total of 9 general types of indirect effect divided among 565 specific indirect effects. Of these, keystone predation (35%) and apparent competition (25%) were most common and exploitation competition (2.8%) was least common in these webs. Two methods of analysis suggested that indirect effects accounted for @?40% of the change in community structure resulting from manipulations, with a range of 24-61%. The proportion of change due to indirect effects was constant with web species richness, indicating that strong direct interactions and indirect effects produce roughly the same level of alteration of community structure regardless of the level of web complexity. Several potential artifacts and biases were evaluated. Most importantly, neither variation in level of taxonomic resolution nor intensity of experimentation varied significantly with web size (species richness). Despite a bias toward manipulation of consumers over manipulation of basal species, some predator-initiated indirect effect types were scarce while some basal species-initiated types were common. While the frequency of exploitation competition may have been underestimated, it is unlikely that the frequency of this indirect effect would change dramatically: changes due to this effect should have been detected in many of the studies and reported; and the most intensively studied individual webs did not report frequencies differing much from the average. This analysis suggests investigators effectively identified and first manipulated those species responsible for most indirect effects and that more experiments added decreasing numbers of indirect effects. Moreover, the frequencies and importance of indirect effects may be more predictable than expected on the basis of theory.
10.2307/1942520|A breeding population of the Weddell seal (Leptonychotes weddelli) was studied annually during the 2 1/2-mo pupping and breeding season in McMurdo Sound, Antarctica, from 1969 through 1974. Components of the population were estimated by direct counts of adult @M @M with pups, by capture-recapture studies of nonparous @V @V and adult @M @M, and by aerial counting. Total population size was estimated as being on the order of 2,500-3,000 seals. The Seber-Jolly method was adapted to circumstances of the present study. Reproductive rates (measured in terms of successful pupping) were ~ 0.5 pups/@V for the entire breeding colony, and ~ 0.7 pups/@V for a subset of tagged @V @V observed for 4 yr in sequence. Age-specific reproductive data were also obtained, and it appears that full reproductive activity of @V @V is achieved at ~ age 7. The annual survival rate for adult @V @V is in the range of 0.80 to 0.85, as determined (by several methods) from tagging data. Survival rates for adult @M @M are lower (perhaps 0.50), but are not as well established. Little information was obtained on the subadult class (1 to 3 yr of age). Underwater territories of adult @?@? on one breeding colony were studied by acoustic tagging and found to be steadily patrolled by dominant @M @M.Two experimental colonies having different densities ties of @M @M with pups demonstrated increased interactions at higher densities, but lower weight losses on the part of the @?@? (presumably due to isolated location of the colonies). We infer from the available data that the McMurdo Sound population is somehow regulated by a physiological or social connection between the number of adult @V @V at the pupping colonies and subsequent years' pup population.
10.2307/2937316|Previous investigations, focused primarily on vertebrates, have noted substantial losses of eggs and embryos to predators and questioned why selection has not more commonly resulted in the evolution of chemically defended eggs or embryos. Hypotheses regarding the apparent rarity of such defenses have emphasized the potential incompatibility of actively developing tissues and toxic metabolites. Alternatively, this apparent pattern could be an artifact of our greater knowledge of vertebrates, which in general show few tendencies for synthesizing defensive metabolites in either juvenile or adult stages. In this study, we investigated adult and larval chemical defenses of a group of benthic marine invertebrates, the ascidians, in which the adults are often chemically rich, and we contrast our findings with what is known about chemical defenses of eggs and embryos from terrestrial and aquatic organisms. Our findings suggest that there is no fundamental incompatibility of rapidly developing juvenile tissues and bioactive metabolites, and that chemically defended eggs and larval stages may be common among some taxonomic groups. Ascidians are benthic invertebrates that often lack apparent physical defenses against predation, yet are common on coral reefs where predation by fishes is intense. In contrast to most co-occurring invertebrates, many ascidians also release large, conspicuous larvae during daylight hours when exposure to fish predation would be highest. Thus selection by predators might favor the evolution of distasteful larvae. In situ observations indicate that many conspicuous ascidian larvae are distasteful to potential consumers. We investigated the ability of secondary metabolites produced by taxonomically diverse ascidians from geographically distant locales to deter predation on both adults and larvae. Larvae from the Caribbean ascidian Trididemnum solidum were distasteful to reef fishes, and when organic extracts of individual larvae were transferred onto eyes of freeze-dried krill (a good larval mimic in terms of size and color), these eyes were rejected by fishes while control eyes (solvent only) were readily eaten. Larvae of the Indo-Pacific ascidian Sigillina cf. signifera were also distasteful to coral-reef fishes and contained the unpalatable bipyrrole alkaloid tambjamine C. When added to artificial foods at or below their natural mean concentrations and offered to consumers in field and laboratory feeding assays, the secondary metabolites produced by Trididemnum solidum (Caribbean Sea), Sigillina cf. signifera (Indo-Pacific), and Polyandrocarpa sp. (Gulf of California) significantly deterred feeding by co-occurring fishes and invertebrates. Secondary metabolites produced by Trididemnum cf. cyanophorum from the Caribbean Sea, Lissoclinum patella from the Indo-Pacific, and Aplidium californicum from the temperate Pacific, and the small stellate spicules common to many tropical didemnid ascidians did not significantly affect fish feeding. High-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) analyses of six didemnin cyclic peptides in individual colonies of Trididemnum solidum from one patch reef at Little San Salvador, Bahamas found large inter-colony differences in their concentrations. The mean concentration of didemnin B was more than double the concentration needed to significantly deter fish feeding in our field assays, and feeding tests with nordidemnin B showed that it deterred fish feeding across the entire range of natural concentrations. HPLC analysis of the extract from a combined collection of T. solidum larvae found adequate concentrations of didemnin B and nordidemnin B to account for their rejection by foraging fishes. We demonstrate that taxonomically diverse ascidians from habitats characterized by intense predation pressure produce secondary metabolites that significantly reduce predation on both adults and larvae, and suggest that this defensive chemistry may be crucial in allowing the release of large, well-provisioned larvae during daylight periods when larvae have the greatest probability of using photic cues to select physically appropriate settlement sites. Production of defensive secondary metabolites appears widespread among certain groups of ascidians, some of which are also known to concentrate acid and heavy metals as additional defensive strategies.
4539115|Because flow in the California Current is unidirectional for months, larvae of coastal species may drift and settle downstream of their parents, potentially causing the parental population to go extinct from upstream to downstream; this is a marine equivalent of the drift paradox in streams. Unidirectional larval drift might, however, be minimized by when, where, and how organisms reproduce. We compiled data on California Current fishes (89 nearshore, 65 shelf/slope) and benthic crustaceans (35 nearshore, 15 shelf/slope) and found three unique sets of life history traits displayed by (1) shelf/slope species, (2) nearshore pelagic-spawning fishes (all from the Southern California Bight [SCB] and Baja California), and (3) all other nearshore species. Pelagic larval durations (PD) of shelf/slope species are long (~136 d); offspring are pelagic winter through summer and are found at depth below the mixed layer offshore. Offspring experience northward flow in winter and southward flow in spring/summer, perhaps minimizing net alongshore drift. Adults are both long-lived and highly fecund. Nearshore species have short PDs (~45 d), and offspring are pelagic during spring/summer upwelling and are found nearshore and near the bottom. Nearshore larvae may experience southward flow during upwelling and northward flow during relaxation events, minimizing net alongshore transport. Nearshore species have shorter lives and are less fecund than shelf/slope species. Nearshore pelagic-spawning fishes (all from the SCB and Baja) have short PDs (~48 d), but in contrast to other nearshore species, their larvae are pelagic from spring into fall and are found far from shore. Adults are long-lived, highly fecund, and have numerous broods per year. These life history traits may have evolved to exploit eddies and countercurrents present in the SCB and off Baja for larval retention. Each set of life history traits appears to improve chances of offspring recruiting to parental populations. The pelagic phase, rather than being dispersive, may be selected to achieve a migration between larval pelagic and adult benthic habitats.
10.2307/1942262|The alpine flora of the Sierra Nevada has developed relatively recently and largely in situ from western American sources. The Sierra thus provides a good site for an attempt to answer the question: @'How does an alpine flora originate?@' The primary study area was a transect from the desert near Bishop, California (1,400 m), to Piute Pass in the Sierra Nevada (3,540 m). Upward along the transect the vegetational gradient is Ephedra nevadensis-Tetradymia spinosa desert shrub, Pinus monophylla-Artemisia tridentata open woodland, Pinus jeffreyi open forest, Pinus murrayana forest, Pinus albicaulis-subalpine herbaceous vegetation, and scattered alpine communities. Only 19% of the alpine species at Piute Pass occur in the Arctic, whereas 38% are held in common with the Rocky Mountains. Species endemic to the Sierra (17%) are in genera predominantly from the Californian or Great Basin floras of lower elevations. A number of species have populations in the desert and also at high elevations near the alpine zone. Most of the alpine flora consists of perennials, but several annual species are also present. Annuals are rare in other arctic and alpine floras. Environmental monitoring stations were maintained at several locations along the transect during two summers. Air temperature at 5 cm above the ground decreased with increasing elevation at a rate of 0.74@?C/100 m. Summer precipitation increased nonlinearly with elevation at a rate of 0.16-0.82 cm/100 m. Long-term annual average precipitation for Bishop is 14.6 cm; the annual precipitation for Piute Pass estimated from this study is greater than 78 cm with a strong winter maximum in the form of snow. Soil moisture during the summer is low for all sites. Strong vegetation patterning occurs in both alpine and desert areas along drainageways from snowbanks or perennial streams. Solar, sky, and net radiation at 1 m above the soil are greater for alpine than for desert areas. Air and plant-tissue temperatures near the surface of the alpine soil are higher than those in most other alpine areas. Laboratory experiments showed several physiological responses to be characteristic of Sierran alpine populations. These may be important in plant evolution and migration into an alpine habitat. (1) Germination of seeds from alpine plants occurred maximally between 20@? and 30@?C. Constitutive dormancy is a minor factor; the low winter temperatures of the alpine zone appear to operate as an exogenous dormancy control. Desert and low-elevation species of this area are predominantly winter-germinators and have maximum germination at low temperatures. (2) Mature alpine plants have strong dormancy control by short photoperiod; dormancy in lower elevation populations may be induced by either short or long photoperiods. (3) Temperatures of the upper photosynthetic compensation point and maximum net photosynthesis are lower in plants of alpine species. (4) Low temperature regimes cause plants to shift dark respiration higher rates when compared with plants of the same species from high temperature regimes; this change appears to have both genotypic and phenotypic causes. (5) Considerable acclimation of dark respiration to a change in temperature can occur in as little as 8-10 hr, beginning 1-2 hr after the change. The speed of acclimation increases with increasing temperature and is genetically based. Populations from higher elevations have faster acclimation rates than those from lower elevations. This characteristic could allow alpine plants to adapt rapidly to changing weather conditions. (6) Acclimation of dark respiration does not appear to be related to changes in leaf water potential, diffusion resistance, or isozymes of three dehydrogenases. It is related to changes in the rate of mitochondrial oxidation (7) Translocation of starch from chloroplasts at low temperatures was impaired in a desert species, but was maintained in an alpine species. Although a number of physiological processes in alpine plants are adapted to low temperatures, there is no indication that any single process, or adaptation to temperature alone, is responsible for the evolution and success of an alpine species. Efficient utilization of a short, clod growing season may be the most important selective characteristic in the origin of an alpine flora. Some genera of lower elevations near the Sierra are already preadapted, in their winter and spring growth patterns, to such a low-temperature regime and may have provided a part of the present Sierran alpine gene pool.
4539104|Trees slowly colonize old fields on sandy outwash in the prairie-forest ecotone of the north-central United States, and in the absence of fire, succession is expected to proceed toward oak woodland. We analyzed whether a case of unusually rapid and spatially extensive invasion by white pine (Pinus strobus) could be explained by the presence of specific temporal or spatial opportunity windows suitable for such invasion. We tested whether the invasion was temporally restricted to the period immediately after abandonment or to periods of favorable climate, and whether it was spatially restricted to areas of high seed rain or high forest-edge shade. White pine invasion into the field occurred in two waves separated from each other by a 1987-1989 drought period. The first wave (1980-1985) occurred during a period of average climate and led to the establishment of dense sapling patches in shade near forest edges. The second wave (1991-1994) occurred during a period of high precipitation and cooler than normal temperature, and resulted in colonization of the unshaded field center. In addition to the two temporal windows, white pine invasion occurred within two spatial windows: in areas highly sheltered by forest edge and in areas receiving high white pine seed rain. Overall these windows produced three different successional pathways: (1) a slow, creeping white pine invasion into highly shaded areas with low seed rain near forest edges; (2) a rapid, discrete-step invasion in areas where seed rain was abundant enough to overcome mortality in lower shade and where early arrivals facilitate filling in by later arrivals; and (3) a deferred invasion in the field center where low seed rain and lack of shade allowed the persistence of a grassland stage until favorable climate resulted in a white pine recruitment pulse. Temporal variation in climate can accelerate or decelerate any of the three successional pathways.
10.2307/1942513|The North Pacific central gyre is a large, monotonous, and geologically old system. It (and other such gyres) is probably the nearest oceanic equivalent to an essentially self-regulating, climax ecosystem. We have taken a series of replicated, vertically stratified net tows for macrozooplankton and have replicated measures of a number of habitat variables. Copepods are the most numerous members of the macrozooplankton fraction of the community of the central gyre. It is likely that they are also the largest part of the biomass. There are at least 125 species regularly present and although we do not know what many of them eat, certain species can almost certainly be identified as herbivores or carnivores, and others as omnivores. We show that some species are significantly more frequent parts of each other's biotic environment than other species. These recurrent groups of species tend to occupy different depth zones. The members of the groups show strong concordance of abundance at the depth of high group coherence. Thus there is a dividing up of the water column and a clear tendency for vertical spatial structure in the copepod fauna. Within groups there is a significant constancy of dominance at the group's preferred depth over time. Thus there appears to be a large amount of species structure as well as spatial structure. A highly regulated species equilibrium is implied. There are congeners occurring within the same recurrent groups. The physical and biotic environment of each group differs with respect to both concentration (e.g., chlorophyll @a) or magnitude (e.g., temperature) of habitat variables and with respect to the spatial variability of these. Our most diverse group tends to occupy a depth zone ranking high in primary productivity but does not have the greatest total environmental "richness" or greatest or least heterogeneity, and this seems contrary to what some current community theory predicts. Our evidence indicates that within groups many similar species coexist spatially and temporally. We speculate about the relative roles of competition and predation influencing the structure we see. Aspects of modern community theory, based on competitive equilibrium, seem inadequate to explain our results. Predator regulation of structure seems a more likely explanation. However, existing information indicates a lack of sufficient specialization of what we believe to be the main predators on copepods to account for the observed constancy of copepod species structure. We suggest that a more intensive study of the role of predation is in order.
10.2307/2937076|Vegetation change following selective logging and major natural disturbance was investigated through the use of stand history reconstruction and population monitoring in an east Texas pine-hardwood forest. High frequencies of release in beech (Fagus grandifolia) and white oak (Quercus alba) occurred after apparently natural disturbances in 1800-1810, 1860-1870, and 1960-1970, and after selective logging beginning @?1910. Pulses of recruitment occurred after all disturbances except the most recent one. Age data suggest that recruitment after the 1910 disturbance was asynchronous among species, with loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) regenerating first, followed sequentially by white oak, red maple (Acer rubrum), and beech. At present, only magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora) is showing significant new recruitment. After the 1910 disturbance, regenerating pines grew rapidly and became dominant in the re-forming overstory. Most hardwoods originating after the 1910 disturbance did not reach the overstory. White oak initially outgrew maple and beech and is presently larger. Over the last 20 yr beech growth has been greater than white oak growth, resulting in a decline in the average size difference between individuals of these species. Presently, mortality rates of understory populations are high for sweetgum, blackgum, and the oaks, and are low for beech and magnolia. These latter two species are also the faster growing. If these trends continue, beech and magnolia will become increasingly predominant in the forest understory and eventually in the overstory as well. Map data show that saplings and small trees are abundant under pine and oak, but not under beech and magnolia. Future disturbance is therefore likely to accelerate succesion to more shade-tolerant species in parts of the forest now dominated by pine and oak, but is most likely to re-initiate new regeneration, including pine and oak, in areas now dominated by beech and magnolia. These results suggest a pattern of cyclical replacement driven by disturbance, a pattern which may help preserve species diversity in southern mesic forests.
10.2307/1942310|Samples of infauna and measurements of temperature, oxygen, salinity, and algal cover were taken from January 1969 to December 1970 at -1.2-ft tidal elevation in a mud flat dominated by polychaetes in Mitchell Bay, San Juan Island, Washington. Mortality of adults after spawning and variable larval settlement success probably explained much of the variation in population numbers of the four large and numerically important polychaete species, Lumbrineris inflata, Axiothella rubrocincta, Platynereis bicanaliculata, and Armandia brevis. No correlations were found between the abundances of numerically important species and physical factors. Exclosures constructed of 3-mm mesh plastic screening placed on the flat became covered with diatoms. Settling juveniles of tube-building species, such as P. bicanaliculata, Axiothella rubrocincta, and L. inflata, built tubes in this layer of diatoms and thus did not reach the enclosed sediment, while settling juveniles of a burrowing species, Armandia brevis, burrowed through the diatom layer and reached the sediment. Thus, cleaning the cage surfaces or removing the cage after settlement reduced abundances of tube-building species without disturbing the sediment since adults of all three numerically important tube builders experience mortality after spawning. The manipulation of tube-builder abundances showed that the burrowing species responded to space vacated by tube builders by increased settlement success. Results from experimental variation of A. brevis numbers per unit volume of sediment in the laboratory and abundance data from unmanipulated natural areas also demonstrated the presence of interspecific and intraspecific competition for space. Changes in physical factors due to algal cover had some impact on population levels but the competitive interactions and behavior patterns, revealed only by observations on the behavior of living organisms and manipulation of the infauna, demonstrated the importance of biological interactions to the determination of species abundance patterns in a soft-sediment environment.
10.2307/2937059|Human-caused fragmentation of forests is increasing, yet the consequences of these landscape changes to vertebrate communities are poorly understood. Although bird community response to forest fragmentation caused by agricultural or urban development has been well studied, we have little understanding of these dynamics in landscapes undergoing intensive forest management, where late-seral forest stands are separated by younger forest stands of varying ages and are part of a spatially and temporally dynamic forest landscape. We investigated the relationship between landscape structure and breeding bird abundance in the central Oregon Coast Range. We sampled vegetation and birds in 30 landscapes (250-300 ha) distributed equally among three basins. Landscapes represented a range in structure based on the proportion of the landscape in a late-seral forest condition and the spatial configuration of that forest condition within the landscape. We computed a variety of landscape metrics from digital vegetation cover maps for each landscape. Using analysis of variance and regression procedures, we quantified the independent effects of habitat area and configuration on 15 bird species associated with late-seral forest. Species varied dramatically in the strength and nature of the relationship between abundance and several gradients in habitat area and configuration at the landscape scale. Landscape structure (composition and configuration) typically explained <50% of the variation in each species' abundance among the landscapes. Species' abundances were generally greater in the more heterogenous landscapes; that is, they were associated with the more fragmented distribution of habitat. Only Winter Wrens showed evidence of association with the least fragmented landscapes. These results must be interpreted within the scope and limitations of our study. In particular, the scale of our analysis was constrained by the lower and upper limits of resolution in our landscapes, as set by minimum patch size and landscape extent, respectively. Thus, our results do not preclude much stronger and different relationships at finer and/or coarser scales. In addition, our community-centered habitat classification scheme and artificially discrete representation of patch boundaries may not have captured the functionally meaningful heterogeneity for each species. Finally, our analysis was limited to relatively common and widespread diurnal breeding bird species. Species sensitive to habitat fragmentation at the scale of our analysis may have been rare already and therefore not subject to the parametrical statistical approach that we employed.
10.2307/1943024|Two subpopulations of blue monkeys (Cercopithecus mitis), located 10 km apart, were studied in Kibale Forest, Uganda, for most of a 6-yr period (1978-1984). This study was undertaken (1) to assess and evaluate the major differences in the environment and in the behavioral ecology of blue monkeys living at high and low densities and (2) to explain the differences in blue monkey densities in the two study sites. Methods included the enumeration of trees and primates, and assessments of the availability of fruits and of diets, time budgets, ranging patterns, and demographics of blue monkeys. There was a 10-fold difference in blue monkey densities between the two subpopulations. Major differences were found in the ecology, behavior, demography, and habitats of blue monkeys living at these two densities. Compared to the high-density subpopulation, the low-density subpopulation exhibited shorter tenure lengths for resident males, a greater density of nonresident males, a higher rate of group intrusions by nonresident males, a higher incidence of infanticide by new resident males, hybridization between blue monkeys and redtail monkeys (Cercopithecus ascanius),fewer adult females per adult male, and lower resident male reproductive success. From these observations I conclude that male-male competition for females was more intense where blue monkey densities were low. Predictor variables of food production and food competition indicate that more food was available for the low-density than for the high-density subpopulation of blue monkeys. The habitat containing the low-density subpopulation had a higher tree density and basal cover, greater tree species richness and diversity, and more fruit left uneaten. It also had a lower overall primate density, which, together with assessments of the kinds of foods eaten, dietary overlap and richness, foraging behavior, and home range size, suggests that intra- and interspecific competition for food both were less in the low-density subpopulation. Further evidence that food was more available for the low-density subpopulation is that both the birth rate and the population growth rate of blue monkeys were higher there than in the high-density subpopulations. The low-density subpopulation was apparently below carrying capacity and increasing in a food-rich habitat. In contrast, the high-density subpopulation appeared to be at carrying capacity, stable, and food limited. Therefore, contrary to what was hypothesized, the availability of food does not explain why blue monkey densities differed on these two areas. On this basis I attribute the low density of the one subpopulation to some unknown historical event rather than to current ecological differences between areas. I suggest that, during this study, the low-density subpopulation was recovering from a decline and that the responsible mechanism (e.g., disease) was no longer operating. This paper emphasizes: (1) the considerable variability found in the ecology and behavior of primates--even within one species in the same forest; (2) the need for long-term comparative studies of free-living primates, especially those at low densities; (3) the importance of investigating the density of primate populations relative to the carrying capacities of their environments, and the influence of this relationship on behavior and ecology.
10.2307/2657208|We compared the density and spatial distribution of four small mammal species (Microtus ochrogaster, Peromyscus maniculatus, Sigmodon hispidus, and P. leucopus) along with general measures of an old field plant community across two successional phases (1984-1986 and 1994-1996) of an experimental study of fragmentation in eastern Kansas. During the early phase the plant community was characterized by little spatial or temporal variance across patch size, consistent with spatially neutral models of succession. In contrast, there was a strong, species-specific effect of patch size on small mammal species distribution and abundance. The lack of variance in vegetation structure across patch size during the early seres suggests that small mammal distributions were responding in large part to features of the system other than variance in vegetation structure and composition across patch size. As succession proceeded, the colonization of the system by woody plant species precipitated a series of patch size effects on plant community composition. Differential habitat selection by small mammals at the patch scale tracked these changes in plant distribution. For example, M. ochrogaster and S. hispidus shifted their distributions away from less fragmented patches toward smaller patches, where retarded plant succession had maintained an earlier sere. P. leucopus successfully colonized and maintained high densities only on large patches, where plant succession had progressed most rapidly toward a woody-species-dominated community. Our results highlight the role of landscape structure in long-term community dynamics and indicate that some of the complexity observed in successional systems may result from the structure and composition of the landscape mosaic. In general, our results suggest that to fully understand long-term change within communities, the influence of landscape structure on patterns of heterogeneity in both vegetation and consumer dynamics must be understood. Moreover, the long-term and landscape-scale perspectives afforded by our study provide insight into community dynamics that might otherwise be missed.
3100015| In semiarid landscapes, the linkage between runoff and vegetation is a particularly close one. In this paper we report on the results of a long-term and multiple-scale study of interactions between runoff, erosion, and vegetation in a pion-juniper woodland in New Mexico. We use our results to address three knowledge gaps: (1) the temporal scaling relationships between precipitation and runoff; (2) the effects of spatial scale on runoff and erosion, as influenced by vegetation; and (3) the influence of disturbance on these relationships. On the basis of our results, we tested three assumptions that represent current thinking in these areas (as evidenced, for example, by explicit or implicit assumptions embedded in commonly used models). The first assumption, that aggregated precipitation can be used as a surrogate for total runoff in semiarid environments, was not verified by our findings. We found that when runoff is generated mainly by overland flow in these systems, aggregated precipitation amounts alone (by year, season, or individual event) are a poor predictor of runoff amounts. The second assumption, that at the hillslope and smaller scales runoff and erosion are independent of spatial scale, was likewise not verified. We found that the redistribution of water and sediment within the hillslope was substantial and that there was a strong and nonlinear reduction in unit-area runoff and erosion with increasing scale (our scales were slope lengths ranging from 1 m to 105 m). The third assumption, that disturbance-related increases in runoff and erosion remain constant with time, was partially verified. We found that for low-slope-gradient sites, disturbance led to accelerated runoff and erosion, and these conditions may persist for a decade or longer. On the basis of our findings, we further suggest that (a) disturbance alters the effects of scale on runoff and erosion in a predictable way-scale relationships in degraded areas will be fundamentally different from those in nondegraded areas because more runoff will escape off site and erosion rates will be much higher; and (b) there exists a slope threshold, below which semiarid landscapes will eventually recover following disturbance and above which there will be no recovery without mitigation or remediation. 
27646130|Changes in the species composition and structural characteristics of marine vegetated habitats in response to climate change or local anthropogenic impacts may alter their quality as habitat for associated fish and invertebrates. Summer densities and biomass of the eelgrass, Zostera marina, declined significantly between 1985 and 2004 in Bogue Sound, North Carolina, USA, within the present-day zone of biogeographic overlap in the distribution of this subtidal temperate species and the intertidal subtropical seagrass, Halodule wrightii. Zostera decline was associated with increased spring water temperatures and water nutrient concentrations. In contrast, Halodule did not exhibit a consistent trend of temporal change. Experimental seagrass transplants indicated that Halodule has the capacity to grow at depths greater than it currently occupies, suggesting that Halodule might, over time, replace Zostera. The abundance and diversity of infaunal invertebrates were lower in seagrass beds dominated by Halodule than in those dominated by Zostera or mixtures of the two species, suggesting that changing seagrass species composition affects associated faunal assemblages. Experimental deployment of artificial seagrass patches mimicking the structure of the two species showed that both depth and structural characteristics of seagrass explain differences in faunal assemblages. Epifaunal community structure differed significantly between structurally identical seagrass mimics deployed in intertidal and subtidal habitat, and invertebrates and fishes were significantly more abundant in artificial Zostera than Halodule patches at one of the two study sites. Synthesis of these results suggests that, in the event of continued Zostera loss, with or without replacement by Halodule, important habitat functions will be lost, and secondary productivity of these lagoonal ecosystems may significantly decrease.
10.2307/1942229|The foraging ecology of the asteroid Leptasterias hexactis was studied at five rocky intertidal areas in the San Juan Islands, Washington, for 2-2@3 years. Feeding activity during high tides reaches a high point in mid- to late summer (July and August) and a low point in the winter (January). Three probable factors selecting for this cycle are (1) reproduction, virtually immobilizing the females, during the winter; (2) low food availability in winter compared to summer; and (3) violent winter storms. Persistently reduced low tide feeding during all but autumnal night low tides indicates that some light-related factor(s) select for a tidal cycle of feeding also. Factors believed responsible are desiccation stress and possibly predation by visual predators. A graphic model of foraging behavior is presented. Analysis of the diet of Leptasterias by both numbers and calories of prey consumed indicates that this starfish is a food generalist. Moreover, numbers of prey consumed, when compared to prey available, indicate those prey chosen selectively and those which are avoided. Lastly, calories consumed compared to calories available indicate why particular prey are chosen. Many factors are involved in prey choice including ease of capture, relative sizes of predator and prey, and caloric yield of the prey. Actual availability is defined as that portion of available prey (i.e., prey physically present) which could be consumed by a predator. The factors affecting prey choice, coupled with prey and predator distribution, abundance, and behavior must be considered when determining actual availability of prey. Actual availability coefficients are computed and suggest that (1) hard-to-capture prey are least available; (2) Leptasterias is more selective in summer and autumn, when food is more abundant; and (3) prey are more available to large starfish. Calculations suggest that, under normal conditions, Leptasterias would be severely energy-limited in winter if it foraged at rates similar to those of spring or summer, or both. Thus, food limitation may be partially responsible for reduced feeding in winter. Comparison of numerical patterns of consumption of energy-rich and energy-poor prey indicates that energy-rich prey are most important except in summer when energy-poor prey become the most important prey, presumably because of their tremendous numerical increase and domination. Comparisons between the foraging strategy of this starfish and theoretical models previously proposed support some predictions but not others, indicating that complex natural systems require more comprehensive and precise models. Predictability of resources in time and space probably determines the degree of resource specialization or generalization in animals.
3100014|A hierarchical competition-colonization model extensively used in ecological dynamics is driven by the stress conditions resulting from the annual fluctuations in rainfall in water-limited ecosystems. The results show that ecosystem composition is very sensitive to the inclusion of realistic amounts of interannual rainfall variability. The evolutionary dynamics of competing trees and grasses exhibit scale-invariance characteristics (i.e., a power law spectra) for the temporal changes in the relative density of the species. This temporal scaling results from the internal dynamics of the competition-colonization process, which is driven by Markovian annual rainfall amounts. The model was also implemented to approximately describe the conditions of two ecosystems characterized by grass-tree competition, one near La Copita, Texas, and one in Nylsvley, South Africa. Long-term simulations run for many different characteristics of the annual rainfall amounts show that the diversity of dynamic states in the tertiary grass/tree/bare soil system (i.e., its information entropy) is at a maximum near historically observed rainfall characteristics. This suggests that, under commonly observed interannual rainfall fluctuations, water-controlled ecosystems tend to self-organize in a manner that maximizes the richness of relative species abundances.
10.2307/3100048| General ecological information resulting from modern dive studies has been limited because analyses and conclusions are study- and species-specific. In this work, a series of unrelated divers was studied and compared using the same analytical procedures. More than 230 000 dives from 12 species were analyzed, and 140 000 of these dives were classified according to dive shape. The species included one cormorant, three penguins, two eared seals, five true seals, and a walrus. Dive profiles could generally be characterized as one of four shapes: square, V, skewed right, or skewed left. In light of this, a universal shape classification protocol was developed that also offers potential solutions for "on board" memory limitations and transmission constraints for archival time-depth recorders and satellite-linked time-depth recorders. Comparisons of dive data recorded with different sample intervals indicated the need for a standardization relative to mean dive duration (i.e., an equal number of data points per dive). Comparative analyses across these dive types and the different species revealed that square dives were always, and by far, the most abundant dive type, usually followed by V dives, and then the skewed dives. The percentage of time that the animals spent at the bottom of square dives (50%), as well as the variation in depth during this bottom time (15%)were also quite uniform across species, indicating that similar foraging patterns were being used, at least relative to the shape of dives. Observed differences across species revealed that larger divers generally dived deeper and longer than did smaller ones, although fur seals and walrus were exceptions, with more limited diving performance than expected based on body size. Also, smaller divers had a tighter coupling between dive depth and duration than did larger ones, indicating that they may be more duration limited. Few other dive variables (e.g., the rate at which dive duration increases with depth, the percentage of dives within each dive type, the percentage of bottom time, the coefficient of variation of depth during bottom time, and the mean wiggle distance per depth during square dives) were affected by body size, but instead physical (water depth) and ecological (type of prey) constraints appeared to play major roles. Analyses using calculated aerobic dive limit (cADL) indicated that generic calculations are problematic and that estimates of diving metabolic rate can drastically influence cADL and resultant findings. However, even using crude estimators, comparisons of cADL across dive types indicated that square dives and V dives most often exceeded the cADL for large and small divers, respectively. This indicates that square dives and V dives may be the predominant foraging dive types for larger and smaller divers, respectively, as animals would be expected to push their limits most during this activity. However, the abundance of square dives within the small divers (>60%) indicates that these dives may have a foraging role as well. Functional analyses of the determined dive types were in general agreement with those from previous work indicating that the various dive types have foraging (benthic and pelagic), traveling, exploring, resting, and processing functions. However, for most species, except Weddell seal and southern elephant seal (rare but likely important), skewed dives were rare and are likely to be of little importance to these animals' diving regimes. Overall similarities in the dive patterns of the various species suggest that these animals exploit the aquatic environment in a similar way. 
10.2307/1942477|Populations of the Yellow-hooded Blackbird Agelaius icterocephalus (Icteridae) in northern South America fall into two patterns, according to the seasonal duration of nesting and the spacing of males' territories and nests. These differences among populations of the same species result from interacting adaptations for exploiting food resources and reducing nestling mortality from predators and brood parasites. All populations breed in marshes, where males defend territories within which they build nests. In moderately seasonal areas, like Trinidad and Surinam, males' territories were 15-50 m in diameter, active nests were 2-10 m apart, and egg laying continued for most of the rainy season. A male often had a succession of females nesting in his territory, but rarely had more than one or two active at any one time. In an extremely seasonal area, the llanos bajos of central Venezuela, conditions were suitable for nesting blackbirds for no more than 2 mo at the end of the rainy season. Blackbirds migrated to this area several months before breeding, males established territories 4-8 m in diameter in discrete colonies, and females laid eggs within a 3-wk period. A male's territory had as many as five nests active at one time. Many small colonies were soon abandoned after massive brood parasitism by Shiny Cowbirds Molothrus bonariensis; a large colony nested successfully. Cowbirds parasitized 33% of nests in this large colony in Venezuela, the same as in populations in Trinidad and Surinam. Male blackbirds chased cowbirds out of their territories and thus restricted opportunities for uninterrupted searching by female cowbirds for blackbird nests. Blackbirds began incubation with the first egg, so a cowbird had to lay her egg within 1 or 2 d to have any chance of success. In Venezuela, cowbirds failed to respond immediately to the sudden availability of blackbird nests in the large, successful colony. Predation accounted for many nest failures, particularly in Trinidad and Surinam, but starvation of some nestlings, especially those hatched last, occurred in the majority of nests that escaped predation. Females feeding young brought only one item to the nest each trip, an indication that food was difficult to find. They increased their rate of feeding and selected larger items as the nestlings grew. Food for nestlings consisted almost entirely of herbivorous insects, primarily Orthoptera, collected in marshes often several hundred metres from the nest and always outside the male's territory. In Venezuela, suitable insects were sparse and widely distributed in marshes. This situation and the lack of cooperation by females in locating food suggest that aggregated nests probably had disadvantages for foraging. Males helped to feed nestlings at one, or rarely two, nests in their territories. Although males contributed less than the females, nests that received male help on >1 d before day 8 of the nestling period had heavier young on day 8 than did nests that received less male help. Tropical marsh-dwelling Agelaius experience greater nest failure from both predation and starvation of nestlings than do temperate marsh-nesting blackbirds. The staggered hatching of nestling Yellow-hooded Blackbirds, as a result of incubation starting with the first egg, leads to brood reduction, which could have advantages for parents when they confront an unpredictable, sparse food supply, but could also result from parent-offspring conflict over the optimal brood size. Nest building by males permits females to spend all of their time on the best feeding areas until immediately preceding egg laying, presumably an adaptation to sparse food resources at a distance from safe nest locations. The seasonal restrictions on breeding in the Venezuelan Ilanos make Yellow-hooded Blackbirds more vulnerable to brood parasitism by cowbirds, except in large, dense, synchronized colonies. Coloniality reduces brood parasitism as a result of the increase in male vigilance permitted by smaller territories. Blackbirds also obtain a 'head start' on cowbirds as a result of synchronized laying. Coloniality possibly also reduces predation by solitary predators that detect nests at close range, such as mammals and snakes.
27646071|Understanding and forecasting changes in plant communities, ecosystem properties, and their associated services requires a mechanistic link between community shifts and modifications in ecosystem properties. In this study, we test the hypothesis that plant traits can provide such a link. Using subalpine grasslands in the central French Alps as a case study, we investigate the response of plant traits to changes in soil resource availability and disturbance regimes associated with changing grassland management as well as the effects of changes in plant traits on measured ecosystem properties. We found that fertilization leads to greater specific leaf area and leaf nitrogen content which leads to greater productivity and faster litter decomposition, and that grazing leads to higher leaf toughness and leaf dry matter content which leads to lower productivity and slower decomposition compared to mowing. A state and transition model was used as a flexible conceptual tool for integrating data on community composition, plant traits, and ecosystem properties in the context of management-mediated successional dynamics in subalpine grasslands. Focusing on the biology driving the transition between grassland states, we incorporated plant traits into the formulation of a state and transition model and demonstrated how they could be used to provide a mechanistic link between community shifts and ecosystem properties under complex management regimes with strong land-use legacies.
41739366|The positive relationship between species diversity (richness and evenness) and critical ecosystem functions, such as productivity, carbon storage, and nutrient cycling, is often used to predict the consequences of extinction. At regional scales, however, plant species richness is mostly increasing rather than decreasing because successful plant species introductions far outnumber extinctions. If these regional increases in richness lead to local increases in diversity, a reasonable prediction is that productivity, carbon storage, and nutrient cycling will increase following invasion, yet this prediction has rarely been tested empirically. We tested this prediction in novel forest communities dominated by introduced species (~90% basal area) in lowland Hawaiian rain forests by comparing their functionality to that of native forests. We conducted our comparison along a natural gradient of increasing nitrogen availability, allowing for a more detailed examination of the role of plant functional trait differences (specifically, N fixation) in driving possible changes to ecosystem function. Hawaii is emblematic of regional patterns of species change; it has much higher regional plant richness than it did historically, due to >1000 plant species introductions and only ~71 known plant extinctions, resulting in an >100% increase in richness. At local scales, we found that novel forests had significantly higher tree species richness and higher diversity of dominant tree species. We further found that aboveground biomass, productivity, nutrient turnover (as measured by soil-available and litter-cycled nitrogen and phosphorus), and belowground carbon storage either did not differ significantly or were significantly greater in novel relative to native forests. We found that the addition of introduced N-fixing tree species on N-limited substrates had the strongest effect on ecosystem function, a pattern found by previous empirical tests. Our results support empirical predictions of the functional effects of diversity, but they also suggest basic ecosystem processes will continue even after dramatic losses of native species diversity if simple functional roles are provided by introduced species. Because large portions of the Earth's surface are undergoing similar transitions from native to novel ecosystems, our results are likely to be broadly applicable.
10.2307/1942659|One general hypothesis to explain how forest tree diversity is maintained is that rarer species are favored over commoner species in their reproduction, growth, and/or mortality. Mechanisms acting in this way would continually compensate for the tendency of some species to increase at the expense of others, and would reduce the chance of local extinction of rare species. Two hypotheses concerning such compensatory mechanisms were tested in subtropical and tropical evergreen rain forests in Queensland, Australia. Hypothesis 1: on the scale of 1-2 ha, commoner species have lower rates of recruitment and growth and higher rates of mortality than do rarer ones. This hypothesis was tested using abundances either of adults or of members of the same size-class, and was rejected for growth and mortality and for recruitment of over-story species, but not rejected for recruitment in subcanopy and understory species in either forest. Hypothesis 2: the close proximity of other individuals is more deleterious (i.e., causes slower growth or higher mortality) if they are the same species than if they are different species. This hypothesis was accepted for growth or survival of nearest neighbors in several of the seedling size-classes in both forests. In contrast, increased densities of the same species in quadrats had no more deleterious effect on growth and survival than did increased densities of different species. At the scale of proximity to adults, hypothesis 2 predicts that young trees have higher mortality nearer conspecific adults than farther away. In both forests, 90% of the species tested showed no such pattern of mortality of seedlings or saplings, nor was the strength or direction of the deviation from equal mortality correlated with the abundance of adults of that species. Field experiments gave the same results. In summary, tests of both hypotheses showed that some compensatory trends occurred and that these were very similar in the two forests. The mechanisms producing these compensatory trends may be attacks by natural enemies (grazers, pathogenic fungi, etc.), interference, or, less likely, competition for resources.
23047068|Plantanimal interactions are crucial nodes in the structure of communities and pivotal drivers of ecosystem functioning. Much of this relevance may depend on how animals cope with plant resources at different spatial scales. However, little is known about how and why different interactions perform at different scales in the same environmental setting. In this study we assess the spatial scales at which two plantanimal interactions operate and disentangle the environmental factors (plant resource availability vs. habitat structure) underpinning these operational scales. We studied two interactions with opposite (mutualistic vs. antagonistic) ecological effects on fleshy-fruited trees, frugivory and seed dispersal by birds, and the later predation by rodents on bird-dispersed seeds. Employing a standardized sampling, we covered three temperate ecosystems hosting structurally similar plantfrugivoreseed predator systems: Cantabrian forest, Mediterranean shrubland, and Patagonian forest. We sampled habitat structure (tree and understory covers), fleshy-fruit abundance, bird-dispersed seed occurrence, frugivorous bird abundance, and seed predation rate, along 15002500 m transects. Using a spatially explicit approach, we broke down the predictable spatial patterns of bird abundance and seed predation rate into patchiness at three consecutive spatial scales (broad, intermediate, and fine). The degree of patchiness and the allocation of spatial variability at different scales suggested a hierarchically nested structure in frugivory and seed predation, but a larger operational scale in seed predation than in frugivory. Scale-specific spatial distributions were explained by the response of animals to plant resource availability and habitat structure. Birds tracked fruits at large spatial scales in all systems and, within some systems, even across consecutive scales. Seed predation distribution was more responsive to habitat features than to resource availability. The reinforcement of resource tracking patterns across scales sometimes occurred simultaneously with the dilution of habitat effects, suggesting that scale dependence may emerge from trade-offs between resource acquisition and the effects of other factors, such as predation risk, on interacting animals. Our findings suggest that scale dependence in frugivory and seed predation may affect the balance of demographic effects of these interactions in plant populations. Moreover, the consistency of frugivory patterns within and across spatial scales may condition the redundancy of seed dispersal as an ecosystem function.
10.2307/2963487|Dispersal is considered a vital life history characteristic for insects exploiting temporary habitats, and life history theorists have often hypothesized an inverse relationship between dispersal capability and habitat persistence. Most often, this hypothesis has been tested using interspecific comparisons of dispersal capability and qualitative estimates of habitat persistence. Consequently, most assessments have failed to control for possible phylogenetic nonindependence and they also lack quantitative rigor. We capitalized on existing intraspecific variation in the dispersal capability of Prokelisia planthoppers to examine the relationship between habitat persistence and dispersal, thereby minimizing possible phylogenetic effects. Two congeneric species (Prokelisia marginata and P. dolus) occur in the intertidal marshes of North America, where they feed exclusively on cordgrasses (Spartina). Because these planthoppers exhibit wing dimorphism, flight-capable adults (macropters with fully developed wings) are easily differentiated from flightless adults (brachypters with reduced wings). Thus, dispersal capability can be readily estimated by the percentage of macropters in a population. At a regional spatial scale, we found a highly significant negative relationship between dispersal capability (percent macroptery) and habitat persistence. In this system, habitat persistence is influenced by a combination of marsh elevation, winter severity, and tidal range, which interact to determine the ability of planthoppers to endure through winter in their primary habitat for development. P. marginata develops primarily in low-marsh habitats during summer, habitats that can be subjected to pronounced winter disturbance due to ice scouring and/or extensive tidal inundation. Levels of winter disturbance of the low marsh are extreme along the Atlantic coast, intermediate along the Pacific, and low along the Gulf. Both the failure of P. marginata populations to remain through winter in this habitat, and the dispersal ability of these populations (92%, 29%, and 17% macroptery, respectively), are correlated with levels of disturbance. Thus, in regions where winter disturbance is high, levels of dispersal are correspondingly high to allow for recolonization of extirpated habitats from overwintering sites on the high marsh. Unlike P. marginata, P. dolus develops primarily in high-marsh habitats, which are much less disturbed on all coasts during winter. Consequently, this species remains year-round in its primary habitat for development, and most populations exhibit relatively low levels of macroptery (<10%). When raised under common garden conditions, many more macropters of both species were produced from Atlantic compared to Gulf populations. Thus the proportion of macropters produced from the populations used in this experiment paralleled the incidence of macroptery measured in the field, providing evidence that the geographic variation in dispersal capability in both species has in part a genetic basis. The results of this study provide strong intraspecific evidence for an inverse relationship between the dispersal capability of insects and the persistence of their habitats.
10.2307/2937239|The first part of this paper describes the quantitative characteristics of breeding habitats of sylviid warbler species, chiefly Sylvia and Phylloscopus, in Yorkshire, northern England, and in southern Sweden. The second part of the analysis is made up of the factors that permit or preclude the coexistence of various combinations of warbler species--vegetation structure, food density, and competitive regime. Vegetation structure was measured in 346 warbler territories in the 2 locations, including 151 Phylloscopus territories (P. trochilus, collybita and sibilatrix), 171 Sylvia territories (including S. communis, curruca, atricapilla, borin, nisoria and undata and 16 Hippolais icterina territories. From data on the distribution of the vegetation density over height in territories, discriminant function analysis generates new canonical habitat variables U"1 and U"2 that are independent of each other and reflect the correlation structure of the original habitat variables. Now each species' habitat niche can be shown as a family of @'confidence ellipses@' in the habitat plane of U"1 and U"2, and both species habitat preference and interspecific overlaps easily measured, within and between genera and within and between countries. As a result of this analysis, the following conclusions are drawn. The 3 English canopy-foraging Phylloscopus show some interspecific habitat segregation but more noticeably a great deal of overlap in preferred habitat. This overlap is reflected by the accuracy with which the specific occupant of a habitat patch can be predicted on the basis of the vegetation-structural characteristics of the patch: on average 2/3 of such predictions are verified, 1/3 is wrong. Similarly in Sweden, where 1 Phylloscopus drops out and is replaced by an additional sylviid, Hippolais icterina, predictions on specific habitat occupancy are correct just over 2/3 (72%) of the time. But the positions of habitat niches are rearranged between the 2 countries, because in Sweden the habitats of the absent collybita are taken over partially by sibilatrix but mostly by trochilus, and the newly added icterina occupies habitat that in England would be most typical of trochilus. Despite these differences, canopy warblers in both countries use very similar vegetational criteria in habitat selection, and predictions as to the specific occupant of a habitat based on discriminant function analysis in 1 country but tested by warbler data from the other country are nearly as successful as are within-country tests. Five Sylvia species were studied in each country, with 4 species in common. Interspecific habitat segregation is poorer than in Phylloscopus (54% of habitat occupants correctly classifiable). Four species occupy similar habitats in both countries with but minor habitat shifts, and in addition the Swedish nisoria occupies habitats that are structurally more similar to the English undata than to any other Swedish or English warblers. Again, cross-country predictions are just as successful, or as unsuccessful (@50% correct), as within-country predictions. The second part of the paper describes and analyses the precise disposition of warbler territories within limited number of study sites in a range of habitat from low scrub to tall woodland. Pilot studies in English habitats show that 3 pairs of species: Phylloscopus trochilus and P. collybita, Sylvia atricapilla and S. borin, and Sylvia communis and S. curruca, species pairs with considerable overlap in preferred habitat type, are strongly interactive and show partial to complete interspecific territoriality. More detailed studies were conducted at 3 Swedish locations. In low woodland/tall scrub at Horby, 4 Sylvia species nested. Sylvia communis is shown to leave some potential territories in the field unoccupied, while S. borin occupies practically all habitat that ranks as highly acceptable. However, just 1 pair of atricapilla is present despite the fact that at least 4 additional atricapilla territories might be accommodated in suitable habitat, and likewise curruca fails to occupy all suitable habitat at the site. The presence of other Sylvia species, in particular the dominant borin, accounts for low densities of curruca and atricapilla, and a combination of statistical analysis of the disposition of territories and direct observation of supplanting and replacement through aggressive behavior confirms that interspecific interactions modify and qualify habitat acceptability. In tall woodland at Hoganas borin and atricapilla interact strongly over habitat, and atricapilla attains high occupancy levels only in habitat that is marginally acceptable to borin. The interaction between them is not affected by the presence or absence of Phylloscopus trochilus. At Bejershamn in low scrubland 5 Sylvia species and 1 each of Hoylloscopus and Hippolais breed. The species display a variety of levels of interspecific interaction, from a direct interspecific territoriality (borin-nisoria, communis-nisoria) to more subtle interactions of partial exclusion (borin-curruca). Here diffuse competition is evident (e.g., icterina is not found with borin and curruca together even though the last 2 occur frequently together and even though Hippolais icterina occurs with either separately). With increasing vegetation height in icterina habitat where more warblers coexist with overlapping territories, from 1- to 2- and 3-species combinations. But only 2/7 one-species combinations, 3/21 two-species combinations and 2/35 3-species combinations are common, stable and compatible. The remainder are precluded by differential habitat selection, by simple competition mitigated by direct behavioral interactions, or by diffuse competition with more subtle avoidance behavior. The role of song convergence in the maintenance of the interspecific interactions and the role of food density and distribution in the formation of compatible species combinations is documented, and further questions about the maintenance and evolution of the system are identified and discussed.
10.2307/1942559|The postglacial history of the forest-tundra zone in Labrador is inferred from the pollen stratigraphy of sediment cores from four lakes which differ considerably in the size and relative relief of their hydrologic catchments. Local pollen-assemblage zones are established independently for each pollen sequence by numerical methods. The relative pollen stratigraphies, interpreted through multivariate statistical comparison with modern pollen spectra from the region, show an overall increase in the tundra component of the forest-tundra vegetation since @?3000 BP. Decreasing absolute frequencies of Picea pollen in the sediments are interpreted as evidence of the decline in tree numbers within the lake catchments, and therefore as a potential record of lowering of the altitudinal tree limit. The records show diachronous changes between sites because of differences in catchment elevation and relief. Tree limit has apparently fallen at least 40 m between 3000 and 1000 BP. A further fall of 30 m may have taken place by 250 BP. High ground in northern Laborador makes it unlikely that any equivalent southward displacement of latitudinal tree line can be identified.
10.2307/1942225|Clark's Nutcracker (Nucifraga columbiana) is one of four species of corvids that commences harvesting, transporting, and caching the seeds of pinon pine (Pinus edulis) in mid-August. Caching continues until inclement weather intervenes or the seed crop is depleted. Nutcrackers are efficient at collecting seeds from the trees because the birds discriminate edible and aborted seeds, select cones with higher than average number of good seeds and appear to concentrate on those trees that produce cones with large numbers of good seeds. The use of a sublingual pouch allows the nutcracker to carry up to 95 pinon pine seeds per trip (x = 55). A pouch full of seeds may be carried as far as 22 km from the collecting area (the pinon-juniper woodland, elevation ~ 1800 m) to communal caching areas where the seeds are buried in clumps in subterranean caches at a depth of 2 to 3 cm. These caching areas are on steep, south-facing slopes that are usually free of snow by late winter. Although solitary nesters, the birds, during the nonbreeding season, often form flocks when harvesting seeds. A flock of 150 nutcrackers cached between 3.3-5.0 X 10^6 pinon pine seeds in the autumn of a good cone crop. Each bird caches between 2.2 and 3.3 X its needed energetic requirements for the insect-free portion of the year. Some of the unrecovered seeds germinated and grew. The pinon pine reaches its highest density in relatively dry areas below the elevational range of other members of the genus Pinus, but ranges up to 3,100 m into the mixed coniferous forest. This pine has developed a number of traits that enhance its efficiency to be located and dispersed by the birds. The seeds are unusually large, of high energy value, and have relatively thin seed coats. The large size improves the germination potential of the seed but also attracts predators and dispersal agents. The seed coat color is markedly different for edible and aborted seeds, thus labeling them for visually oriented seed harvesters. Most pinon pine cones are oriented outward and upward which increases illumination of the seeds and tends to hold them in the cone. The pinon pine displays the seeds in its cones more readily than wind-dispersed pines by opening the seed-bearing cone scales to a uniform angle. Pinon pine seeds are retained for a long period of time in the cone because they are held in deep depressions on the cone scales by small flanges. This constellation of features indicated an evolutionary strategy on the part of the pinon pine to exploit and encourage members of the seed-caching guild to disperse the seeds. Deposition sites are presumably more favorable for germination than those obtained by simply broadcasting the seeds over a wide area. Individual seedlings potentially experience immediate intraspecific competition because the seeds are cached in clumps. Only one seedling, presumably the strongest, fastest-growing individual, survives. The benefits of this system to the nutcracker are that the bird has a supply of energy for the most unproductive months of the year. The bird also breeds in late winter or early spring, using the stored seeds for reproductive energy.
10.2307/3100084|Obtaining an adequate, representative sample of ecological communities to make taxon richness (TR) or compositional comparisons among sites is a continuing challenge. Although randomization in the collection of sample units is often used to assure that sampling is representative, randomization does not convey the concept of how well samples represent the community or site from which they are drawn. In ecological surveys, how well a sample represents a community or site literally means the similarity in taxon composition and relative abundance between a sample and the community from which it is drawn. Using both field and simulated data, we show that the proportion of the total taxon richness at a site (%TTR) achieved with a fixed sample size varies across sites, which in turn causes changes in site-to-site differences in observed TR with sample size. This means that equal-sized samples may differentially represent the communities from which they are drawn. However, the similarity of a sample to the community from which it is drawn cannot be measured directly because the taxon composition and relative abundance of the community is usually unknown. We propose to estimate it by measuring the average similarity among replicate samples randomly drawn from a community, i.e., autosimilarity, which is measured with Jaccard Coefficient in this study. Using the same data sets, we found that: (1) samples of equal size from different sites or communities achieved different levels of autosimilarity, with lower levels achieved in taxon richer sites, indicating variation in how well samples of equal size represent their respective communities; (2) %TTR was positively and almost linearly correlated with autosimilarity, indicating that autosimilarity might be a good predictor of TTR; and (3) when samples were compared at the same level of autosimilarity, similar %TTRs across different sites were achieved (i.e., the relative differences in taxon richness among sites became independent of sample size). We conclude that standardization on autosimilarity, rather than on sample size, can improve the accuracy of taxon richness comparisons.
27646092|Sequoia sempervirens (redwood) is a long-lived, shade-tolerant tree capable of regeneration without disturbances and thus often present in all sizes within a single forest. In order to evaluate functional linkages among structures, plant distribution, and biodiversity in the canopy, we quantified all vascular plants from ground level to the treetops in an old-growth redwood forest (Prairie Creek Redwoods State Park, California, USA). This involved mapping terrestrial and epiphytic trees, shrubs, and ferns as well as climbing 27 trees up to 101 m tall within a 1-ha plot. We monitored canopy microclimates using sensor arrays that collected hourly data for up to 30 months. The plot held 4283 Mg/ha of aboveground dry mass in living plants, 95.4% of which was contributed by redwood. A high degree of structural complexity and individuality was evident in the crowns of the 14 largest trees in the form of reiterated trunks arising from main trunks, other trunks, and limbs. Thirteen species of vascular plants occurred as epiphytes in the plot, and all but one of these were restricted to the 14 largest trees. The evergreen shrub Vaccinium ovatum had the highest biomass of any epiphyte (212 kg/ha) followed by the evergreen fern Polypodium scouleri (196 kg/ha). The spatial aggregation of reiterated trunks was highly coincident with epiphyte masses, explaining 92% of the variation in fern and 75% of the variation in woody plant distribution along the vertical gradient. In addition to epiphyte biomass, there were 2366 kg/ha of soil in the canopy. Soils in crotches held 24 times as much water as soils on branches or limbs, and deeper layers held more water than shallower layers. During two years of monitoring, the volume of water stored in dead wood and soils in the canopy fluctuated between 24.7 m3 and 53.4 m3/ha. The vast majority of the plot's structure and arboreal habitats was held in the crowns of the 14 largest trees. Reiterated trunks and limbs on a small number of trees have important ecological functions in old-growth redwood forests, and it may be feasible to accelerate the development of structural complexity and biodiversity in maturing redwood stands.
10.2307/2937233|The coefficients of variation of daily discharge and the logarithm of daily discharge were calculated from long term records in 15 river systems, including runoff-fed prairie rivers in Illinois and Missouri, groundwater- and spring-fed upland rivers in Southern Ohio, Southern Illinois and the Missouri Ozarks, and the snowmelt-fed Powder River in Wyoming. In almost all cases variability was lower in downstream sections. The patterns of temporal variability were consistent with the hydrology of the basins, with source of flow and size important determinants. Diversity patterns of fishes were tabulated for the same rivers from literature records. In all rivers, diversity increased rapidly from upstream to downstream sections, almost entirely the result of addition of new species with little replacement of the upstream fauna. Maximal species richness was usually in the lowest sections (order VI or greater). Headwater diversity was lowest in the rivers with the most variable headwaters, the increase in diversity downstream steepest for those rivers with the steepest decrease in variability, and the number of species in downstream sections was greater in rivers with more constant downstream sections. Longitudinal replacement rates were very low in all rivers studied, but were generally larger in the most temporally constant rivers. Literal replacement was moderate between small tributaries, but was low between major tributaries. The diversity gradients of individual feeding groups were similar to the gradient for all species, with an increase in richness from headwaters downstream in all groups with intermediate maxima sometimes seen. Piscivores showed consistently steeper diversity increases. These observations were related to hypotheses of factors controlling stream fish distributions. They are most consistent with hypotheses relating control to extermination-recolonization dynamics or the interspecific competition mediated by temporal variability and habitat structure.
10.2307/1942631|The underlying causes of habitat use in an assemblage of Ozark minnows were investigated in an observational field study. Six habitat variables were used: depth of water, current speed, substrate size, lateral distance from stream edge, vertical position in the water column, and presence in pool, riffle, or raceway. Analysis focused on the six numerically dominant species that used a common set of pool microhabitats and thereby formed a natural habitat guild. Observations on habitat use were conducted so as to record simultaneous habitat use by all species at each sample point. This technique made possible an analysis of interspecific interactions over habitat use. The six species were segregated primarily by the vertical position variable (X overlap = 0.160). Subdivision of pool habitat data into two depth zones yielded subsets that were homogeneous with respect to all habitat variables except vertical position. Within these data subsets, interactions between species pairs over use of vertical position were examined. Species whose distributions shifted significantly toward those of heterospecifics were considered associations while distributions that shifted away were considered dissociations. Of 60 possible vertical interactions, 33 were significant, and of these approximately two-thirds were associations and one-third were dissociations. The subdivision of data also permitted an analysis of horizontal interactions between species pairs over the sample points. This analysis showed that guild members were significantly clumped into multispecies groupings. Analysis of species-pair interactions within these groupings showed that of 60 possible interactions, 37 were significant and of these approximately half were associations and half were dissociations. A pattern of vertical and horizontal interactions was evident between the two depth zones. In the shallower zone, associations were the predominant interaction in the vertical dimension, but the number of associations and dissociations was nearly equal in the horizonal dimension. In the deeper zone, vertical associations still predominated, though to a lesser extent, and associations predominated in the horizontal dimension. Several explanations for these patterns were proposed. Some associative interactions may facilitate opportunistic feeding behaviors, and others may promote interspecific schooling as an antipredation tactic. Dissociations probably promote habitat segregation among guild members. A balance of these two types of interactions may be critical to guild maintenance. The frequent interactions over habitat use indicate that habitat use among guild members is highly variable; the overall pattern of segregation results from a combination of habitat selection as modified by interspecific interactions over time and space. This view contrasts with the more conventional interpretation of segregational patterns in which shifts or differences in resource use are assumed to be relatively static and interactions and competition among species are reduced or eliminated. the dynamic nature of habitat partitioning observed in this minnow assemblage is consistent with the requirement of ecological flexibility in the characteristically unstable and unpredictable environments of streams.
10.2307/3100028|Flexible behavior has been shown to have substantial effects on population dynamics in unstructured models. We investigate the influence of flexible behavior on the dynamics of a size-structured population using a physiologically structured modeling approach. Individuals of the size-structured population have a choice between living in a risky but profitable habitat and living in a safer but less profitable habitat. Each of the two habitats houses its own resource population on which the individuals feed. Two types of flexible behavior are considered: discrete habitat shifts, in which individuals instantaneously and nonreversibly shift from living in the safe habitat to the more risky/profitable habitat, and continuous habitat choice, in which individuals can continuously adapt their habitat choice to current resource/mortality conditions. We study the dynamics of the model as a function of the mortality risk in the risky/profitable habitat. The model formulation and parameterization are derived using data on Eurasian perch (Perca fluviatilis) and describe reproduction as a yearly event at the beginning of summer, while all other processes are continuous in time. The presence of two habitats per se, with unique resources that are shared among all consumers, does not change model dynamics, when compared to the one-resource situation. Flexible behavior increases the range of mortality levels for which the population can persist, because it allows individuals to hide from high mortality in the risky habitat. In contrast, flexible behavior does not significantly change the dynamics for mortality risks, where the consumer population also persists without it. Discrete habitat shifts result in model dynamics that are largely similar to the dynamics observed with continuous habitat choice, as long as individuals strongly respond to small differences in habitat profitability. In these cases, consumers spend an increasing part of their first year of life in the safe habitat, when mortality risks in the risky habitat increase. Ultimately, consumers are driven out into the risky habitat by intercohort competition from their successive year class. Therefore, major mortality and rapid growth occur among 1-yr-old individuals. Younger individuals exhibit retarded growth due to intracohort competition in the safe habitat, which may also induce large-amplitude fluctuations when the mortality risk is high in the risky habitat. With continuous habitat choice and a low responsiveness to habitat profitability, consumer persistence is increased as well, but large-amplitude fluctuations are absent. In this case, consumers always spend a significant part of their first year of life in the risky habitat, even at high mortality risks. Major mortality and rapid growth occur among individuals younger than 1 yr, while the shift to the risky habitat is mainly induced by intracohort competition for resources. The high mortality and rapid growth at younger ages lead to an increase in maximum size and fecundity of surviving individuals, as well as to larger total population biomasses. We argue that the pattern of individual habitat use is mainly determined by population feedback on resource levels.
10.2307/2657217|In the British Isles, oligophagous marine herbivores, particularly the ascoglossan (= sacoglossan) sea slug Elysia viridis, associate with the introduced green macroalga Codium fragile ssp. tomentosoides. Slugs prefer to associate with and consume the introduced C. fragile to the native C. tomentosum. Our investigation of adult, larval, and juvenile E. viridis focused on whether this association is attributable (1) to a host switch or (2) to an expansion from native hosts to the introduced C. fragile ssp. tomentosoides. Growth rates and maximum body sizes of E. viridis on introduced hosts were greater than on natives. Although the native Cladophora rupestris induced a high rate of slug metamorphosis, recently metamorphosed juvenile E. viridis (from Codium fragile-feeding parents) were generally not able to feed or grow on the native alga. In contrast, juveniles from Cladophora-feeding parents could eat Cladophora, although their performance was highly variable. Small, postlarval slugs (<800 m long) could not effectively puncture cell walls and extract algal cytoplasm and chloroplasts from Cladophora; slugs fed far more readily on the thin-walled C. fragile. The new association appeared to be a host switch such that Codium fragile feeders and their offspring had limited capacity to complete their life cycle on the native host Cladophora. Larval metamorphosis in E. viridis was greatest on potential host species, but larvae also responded to nonhost macrophytes and adult conspecifics. The generality of larval host-plant selection and larval metamorphosis enables oligophagous adult consumers to exploit spatially unpredictable novel hosts, to capitalize on newly available host plants, and to exhibit spatial and temporal variation in host-plant associations.
4539057|Herbivores can affect plants not only directly through browsing and trampling, but also indirectly through other species. For example, herbivores could affect the interaction between plants and their pollinators. Because plant population density may affect plant-pollinator interactions and plant reproductive success, we hypothesized that herbivores could affect pollination and plant reproduction indirectly by modifying plant population density. Unlike previous hypotheses, which concerned individual-level effects on vegetative and reproductive traits, our hypothesis focuses on population-level effects and involves a feedback mechanism. To test this hypothesis, we conducted field studies in the temperate forest of the southern Andes, where introduced ungulates are a major source of anthropogenic alteration. For 10 animal-pollinated understory plants, we compared population density, pollinator visitation, pollen deposition in stigmas, and reproduction in four pairs of grazed and ungrazed sites. We found evidence of indirect effects of ungulates on pollination and reproduction only for the herb Alstroemeria aurea (Alstroemeriaceae). The general lack of evidence for indirect effects on most of the species may result from resistance to cattle browsing and trampling, or low statistical power. For A. aurea, we present additional evidence from trampling and hand-pollination experiments, plus path analyses of the effect of density on pollination and reproduction showing that: (1) cattle decrease the absolute and relative population density of this species through trampling; (2) density, particularly relative density, affects pollen deposition on stigmas; and (3) conspecific pollen deposition affects reproduction. Thus, our results indicate that, by directly reducing the population density of A. aurea, cattle are indirectly affecting its reproduction.
10.2307/2963457|During a mark-recapture study of Townsend's ground squirrels (Spermophilus townsendii) on 20 sites in the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area, Idaho, in 1991 through 1994, 4407 animals were marked in 17639 capture events. This study of differences in population dynamics of Townsend's ground squirrels among habitats spanned a drought near the extreme of the 130-yr record, followed by prolonged winter conditions. Townsend's ground squirrels have a short active season ( 4 mo) in which to reproduce and store fat for overwintering. Their food consists largely of succulent grasses and forbs in this dry shrubsteppe and grassland habitat. The drought in the latter half of the 1992 active season produced early drying of Sandberg's bluegrass (Poa secunda) and was associated with low adult and juvenile body masses prior to immergence into estivation/hibernation. The following prolonged winter was associated with late emergence of females in 1993. Early-season body masses of adults were low in 1993 relative to 1992, whereas percentage of body fat in males was relatively high. These weather patterns in spring 1992 and winter 1993 also resulted in reduced adult persistence through the  7-mo inactive period, especially for adult females, and near-zero persistence of
10.2307/2937063|Succession was studied in a cold-temperate forest in the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness (BWCAW) of northeastern Minnesota. The 13 x 18 km study area comprises a complex forest mixture of jack (Pinus banksiana) and other pines, quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides), paper birch (Betula papyrifera), black spruce (Picea mariana), balsam fir (Abies balsamea), and white cedar (Thuja occidentalis) on thin soils over the Canadian Shield bedrock. The main objectives of this study were to examine the relationship between spatial patchiness, spatial scale, and canopy succession in the southern-boreal forest of the BWCAW, and to evaluate under what conditions successional direction may remain stable, converge, or diverge. Knowledge of the successional direction of old forests in the BWCAW that are undergoing demographic transition from even-aged to uneven-aged is important because the landscape now has many old stands as a result of reduced fire frequency. Rotation periods for fires have changed from @?50-100 yr in presettlement times to >1000 yr since 1910. Analyses were conducted at spatial scales ranging from the individual tree (0.01 ha) to the large stand (16 ha). Two permanent mapped plots (of area 0.53 and 0.56 ha) were established in stands of different age. Fine-scale age structure, successional change, transition from one species to another, and development of small patches (of area <0.25 ha) were studied by means of stand history reconstruction with increment cores, spatial autocorrelation, and analysis of replacement trees in canopy openings. Spatial processes at nested scales of 1, 4, and 16 ha were examined on 15 square 16-ha tracts of upland forest, which are distributed among forests ranging from 15 to 190 yr old. Canopy species composition and patch development over time on these 15 tracts were interpreted on air photos taken in 1934, 1961, and 1991. Thus, the study includes a chronosequence approach, with verification of chronosequence validity by checking patch development processes at more than one time point. This checking was done at small spatial scales by reconstruction of stand history on permanent mapped plots, and at larger spatial scales with sequential air photos of the same locations spanning a 57-year period. Results show that the reduced fire frequency in recent years has changed the dominant successional pathways. When fire frequency was high, jack pine or aspen stands usually burned while still in the even-aged stage of development, and the new trees after the burn were the same species as before. Currently, many stands are undergoing demographic transition from even-aged stands of catastrophic fire origin to uneven-aged stands. This transition parallels a change in canopy composition from jack pine (occasionally red pine (Pinus resinosa)) or aspen to an old-growth multi-aged mixture of black spruce, balsam fir, paper birch, and white cedar. The mechanism that moves this successional path forward is canopy openings, 10-30 m across on average, caused by wind, insect, disease, that gradually chip away at the relatively uniform canopy of pines and aspen. Successional direction is individualistic in the sense that time and rate of transition from pine/aspen to other species depends on the action of heavy windstorms, insect infestation, and senescence of old pines that create canopy openings. Canopy openings are often filled with one of several species, but if more than one species invades an opening, monodominant patches of each species generally result. Understory-overstory interactions are very weak; the dominant species within each patch is apparently independent of the overstory species that died when the opening was created or the species dominating surrounding patches. During succession, the spatial structure of the stands at the 1-16 ha scales generally changes from a matrix heavily dominated by pine or aspen to a mosaic with relatively large mono-dominant patches that may be remnants of the extensive original matrix, and finally to a mixture with small patches (mean area 35 m^2, maximum @?0.1 ha) of black spruce, balsam fir, white cedar, and paper birch. Thus, at 1-16 ha spatial scales, succession leads to convergence on a mixture of species. At smaller spatial scales (e.g., 0.01-0.1 ha) successional pathways appear to diverge into four community types. The same successional pathways can be reconstructed from historical analysis of individual stands as from a chronosequence of stands; therefore, chronosequences in this area have been stable at least during the lifetime of the current generation of trees.
27646036|Physiology of ectothermic organisms depends on microclimate temperature. In some insectplant relationships, the herbivore physically manipulates its proximate environment (i.e., plant tissues). However, little is known about the effects of this manipulation on the insect microclimate. We studied the thermal environment of the leaf-mining insect Phyllonorycter blancardella (Lepidoptera: Gracillariidae). This herbivore modifies both morphology and physiology of attacked apple leaf tissues to construct a mine inside which the entire larval development occurs. Spectral measurements showed that absorbance of mined leaf tissues differed from that of intact leaf tissues. Gas exchange measurements in mined leaf tissues demonstrated that responses of stomata to changes in climatic parameters were modified compared to intact leaf tissues. We built an energy budget model to predict the temperature within a mine given climatic variables, and measured parameters related to radiative absorption properties and to the ecophysiology of stomata. Model predictions were verified using experimental measurements made under a large range of climatic conditions. Radiation level was the most influential variable on both mine and leaf temperatures, and a mine was always warmer than a leaf. Mine temperature was predicted to be up to 10C above ambient air and 5C warmer than intact leaf tissues at high radiation levels. The decoupling between mine temperature and leaf temperature was significant. The model was manipulated to quantify the separate effects of altered absorbance and modified stomatal behavior. Both effects contributed almost equally to the temperature excess. A mine gained more radiative heat than a leaf and the observed stomatal closure limited latent heat losses. We suggest that this warm microclimate allows larvae to develop faster, leading to a reduced risk of attack by parasitoids. The model, which is the most complete one to date for any herbivorous insect, shows that the second trophic level manages and partially controls the first one, even to the point of one trophic partner co-opting the physiology of the other. These reciprocal influences imply that heat budgets cannot be simply built for each trophic level independently.
10.2307/2937294|Tomenthypnum nitens forms tall turfs in fens where the tree and shrub canopy is sparse and the water table is close to the surface. The feather moss species (Hylocomium splendens, Pleurozium schreberi, and Ptilium crista-castrensis) form wefts in shaded and better drained habitats. Growth of T. nitens was measured using small wire stakes, from which net production averaged 190 g/m^2 in 1975. Growth rates were correlated with color of the apical region, the result of variation in apical water contents. Seasonal variation in growth rate was correlated with depth from the canopy surface to the ground water table, controlled by the balance between rate of transport of water through the canopy and loss by evaporation. The most important environmental factor appears to be total precipitation, followed by evaporation stress. Growth of the feather mosses was estimated by measuring dry weight changes of segments of Hylocomium splendens. Net production averaged 79 g/m^2. Growth was correlated with the length of time that the moss was wet, the result of precipitation frequency. Because growth rates were measurably reduced by removal of a sparse shrub canopy, evaporation stress is probably another important factor. Survival and growth of Tomenthypnum nitens is limited by evaporation stress in habitats where ground water is not available. Feather mosses are limited by radiation damage and evaporation stress in open habitats, by depression of net assimilation and other deleterious effects of saturation in wet habitats, and by insufficient rainfall under dense tree canopies.
10.2307/1942165|Petersen-type bottom communities (a concept based on Petersen's 1914 data) are characterized by constant species which are dominant in terms of numbers and weight. Some workers recently have questioned the existence of these communities, in which quantitative data upon very few of the species present have been analyzed subjectively, and other potentially important species have been neglected. Various computer techniques were used to analyze Petersen's data. For the majority of species only presence-absence data can be used; for quantitative data 88 species from 193 stations were processed. The final methods involved transformed data of numbers and weights, respectively, the Canberra metric coefficient, and a combination of flexible and group-average sorting followed by allocation. The presentation of results is difficult because, even after classification, the complexity of the data--for example, the lists of species of different grades of constancy and abundance which characterize site groups--lies beyond human ability to comprehend adequately. Results are compared with Petersen's and with each other. Petersen's classification compares most closely with ours involving binary data. Our @'numbers@' and @'weights@' classifications both reveal Petersen-type communities, but they differ markedly from each other and more markedly still from Petersen's results
10.2307/1942311|Previous field experiments indicated that the rocky intertidal starfish Pisaster ochraceus and Leptasterias hexactis compete for food. Here, the method of resource partitioning and mechanisms of competition and of coexistence are examined. Comparisons between the diets, feeding activities (high tide), and location at low tide are made for co-occurring Leptasterias (0.01-11.5 g wet weight) and small (0.01-11.5 g), medium (11.5-100 g), and large (100-550 g) Pisaster. These comparisons suggest that (1) there is no spatial or temporal subdivision of the habitat while feeding, (2) there is some microhabitat separation at low tide, with Leptasterias farther back both in crevices and under rocks, and (3) although the diets of the two species overlap greatly in both size and species of prey eaten, each obtains most of its energy from a different combination of prey size and species. Leptasterias obtains most of its energy from small- to medium-sized mobile prey; small Pisaster depend on small, sessile prey, and medium to large Pisaster depend on larger and more mobile prey. Thus, the food resource is divided along a combination of resource dimensions and not along a single resource @'axis.@' Laboratory experiments indicate (1) that Pisaster is highly aggressive toward Leptasterias, using its pedicellariae to pinch the latter, and (2) the effect of this aggression is to reduce the feeding rate of Leptasterias. Field experiments confirm this result. This aggression is somewhat surprising in light of the complete spatial overlap of the competitors. Coexistence is possible because in nature the smaller seastar evidently acclimates relatively quickly to changes in Pisaster abundance. Leptasterias is not aggressive towards Pisaster, and its location at low tide suggests it avoids close contact with the larger asteroid. The primary competitive advantages of the larger asteroid thus are the ability to reach a larger size (and thus to capture @'better@' prey), and aggression. The competitive advantage of the smaller starfish is suggested by calculations of the number of calories of prey consumed per gram wet weight of starfish per tidal cycle. These comparisons indicate Leptasterias has a higher rate of energy intake than Pisaster. Since this advantage could conceivably give Leptasterias a great initial size advantage over small Pisaster, aggression may function to reduce the foraging time of the former. As Pisaster recruitment is low, small individuals of this species are rare. Leptasterias may coexist with Pisaster by (1) reproducing at a small size (2 g wet weight vs. 70-90 g in Pisaster) and (2) using a spatial portion of the intertidal (deeper parts of crevices) not normally utilized by Pisaster during low tide when the two species would be in closest association. Pisaster's aggressive superiority may render invasion of this system by large asteroid predators similar to Pisaster impossible.
10.2307/2937081|Life history attributes for the western chuckwalla, Sauromalus obesus, and environmental variables, e.g., rainfall and vegetational growth, were recorded simultaneously during a 7-yr investigation in the Colorado desert of southeastern California. The timing of rainfall was most critical to the growth of annual plants, and the standing crop of winter annuals was greatest when substantial rainfall occurred early (October-January). Chuckwallas preferred to eat winter annuals during the spring. However, broad and opportunistic feeding habits were observed, and the persistence of relatively mild winters and frequent summer rainfall enabled individuals to feed throughout most of the year. Males typically achieved reproductive maturity at 125 mm snout-vent length (SVL) and 2 yr of age. Females achieved reproductive maturity at 125 mm SVL and 2-3 yr only when optimal environmental conditions prevailed. Clutch size was highly correlated with body size, and the mean for the study period was 6.9 eggs. Mean values for other reproductive attributes were: egg mass, 8.4 g; relative clutch mass (RCM), 0.343; and expenditure per progeny (EPP), 0.053. Clutch size, egg mass, RCM, and EPP did not differ significantly among years for a given body size. Mean annual frequency of reproduction was 52%, but ranged from 0 to 95% during the study period. Mean 1st-yr survivorship was 38% but showed considerable year-to-year variability. Egg mortality had the greatest impact on 1st-yr survivorship. Mean survivorship for chuck-wallas older than 1 yr approached 75% and values for males and females were not significantly different. Adults of both sexes appeared to be considerably more susceptible to predation after achieving 165 mm SVL. Consequently, large adult individuals were never common. Annual recruitment was 20% and was largely the result of reproduction. Population densities showed nearly a twofold annual variation, ranging from 15 to 30 individuals/ha. Life table analysis showed that younger females (3-6 yr) contributed to 50% of the replacement rate; mean generation time was 8.2 yr, and the life expectancy was @?15 yr. Year-to-year consistency of various reproductive attributes (clutch size, egg mass, and RCM), indicative of @'boom or bust@' iteroparity, is possibly a typical adaption for extremely long-lived lizard species. Relatively mild winters and occurrence of summer rainfall in the Colorado desert greatly promoted early maturity and frequent reproductions. In addition, summer rainfall improved the survivorship of eggs, probably by providing adequate moisture for incubation. Such conditions were responsible for relatively high densities and predation rates. However, under drier conditions maturity was delayed, reproduction less frequent, and egg survivorship much lower; such conditions are typical in the Mojave desert. The relative stability of clutch size, egg mass, and RCM, but apparent variability of age at reproductive maturity and reproductive frequency in this study, may indicate that the life history of chuckwallas evolved under a variable but predictable environmental setting.
27646144|Competition is an important evolutionary force behind population regulation and community structures. The degree of competition symmetry (competition hierarchies) between species determines coexistence, exclusion, or niche differentiation. Intraspecific competition, however, is an important component in dictating levels of symmetry/asymmetry between species and should be accounted for when attempting to understand interspecific evolutionary or ecological outcomes. Some social parasites compete for access to a common host and, thus, adhere to both parasitehost and predatorprey coevolutionary and ecological dynamics. Here I examine tripartite evolutionary dynamics with respect to intraspecific competition of two sympatric slave-making social parasites in the family of ants that conduct "brood raids" on a shared host species and use the captured brood as a functional work force. Slave-makers were challenged with either a conspecific or heterospecific parasite and the impact on hosts and parasites was evaluated. Within-species raiding occurred frequently in the "prudent" slave-maker but was almost nonexistent in the "virulent" slave-maker. Although intraspecific raiding led to larger single prudent slave-maker colonies, the preservation of two independent virulent slave-maker colonies had an early and a more devastating effect on the host. However, in response to synchronized raiding phenologies, the prudent slave-maker emerged as the better direct competitor against the virulent slave-maker. Sex ratios were male biased in the virulent slave-maker colonies but numerically equal (hence female biased) in prudent slave-maker colonies. Combined, these results suggest that interspecific parasite interactions have produced ecological shifts in both slave-makers and attenuated the coevolutionary arms race between the prudent slave-maker and the shared host in sympatric populations.
43187892|Hypoxia is an environmental Stressor that affects abundance, biomass, diversity, and ecosystem function of benthic assemblages worldwide, yet its collective impact at individual, population, and ecosystem levels has rarely been investigated. We examined the effects of hypoxia on the biomass-dominant clam, Macoma balthica, in the York and Rappahannock Rivers (Chesapeake Bay, USA). We (1) surveyed the M. balthica populations in both rivers in 2003 and 2004, (2) determined the effects of low dissolved oxygen (DO) on M. balthica fecundity in a laboratory experiment, and (3) employed a predator-exclusion field experiment to establish the effects of hypoxia and prey density on prdation upon M. balthica. The resultant data were used to parameterize a matrix model, which was analyzed to define potential effects of hypoxia at the population level. In both rivers, hypoxia decreased individual clam growth and caused local extinction of populations. Hypoxia reduced egg production of M. balthica by 40% and increased protein investment per egg. In the predatorexclusion field experiment, hypoxia magnified prdation rates threefold and altered the functional response of predators to M. balthica from a stabilizing type III functional response to a destabilizing type II functional response. In a density-independent matrix model, hypoxia resulted in coupled source-sink metapopulation dynamics, with hypoxic areas acting as blackhole sinks. Increases in the spatial and temporal extent of hypoxia caused the populations to decline toward extinction. In a second model that incorporated density dependence, under mild hypoxic conditions trophic transfer from M. balthica to predators increased, but at increased spatial or temporal extent of hypoxia trophic transfer decreased. The major decline in trophic transfer to predators under severe hypoxia resulted from diversion of M. balthica biomass into the microbial loop. Our model predicted that there are multiple stable states for M. balthica populations (high and very low densities), such that the saddle point (threshold at which the population switches from one state to the other) increased and resilience decreased with the spatial extent of hypoxia. We underscore how effects of a Stressor at the individual level can combine to have substantial population and ecosystem-level effects.
10.2307/2963476|To determine the extent of host-plant specialization, the pollen sources of the 72 anthidiine species (family Megachilidae, subfamily Megachilinae, tribe Anthidiini) of Europe, North Africa, and Asia Minor were investigated by microscopic analysis of  1800 pollen loads of females. By this measure, 31 species (43%) were oligolectic (relatively specialized to pollen source) at the level of plant tribe, plant subfamily, or plant family. Exclusive pollen sources of these bees throughout their geographic ranges are flowers of the Cardueae (Compositae), the Asteroideae (Compositae), the Papilionoideae (Leguminosae), the Lamioideae (Labiatae), the Nepetoideae (Labiatae), the Dipsacaceae, or the Campanulaceae. Thirteen species (18%) were found to exhibit a strong, but not exclusive, preference for the Papilionoideae (Leguminosae), the Labiatae, the Cardueae (Compositae), and Zygophyllum (Zygophyllaceae), respectively, while 25 species (35%) proved to be more markedly polylectic, visiting the flowers of up to 17 different plant families for pollen. The plants exploited by three species (4%) are insufficiently known. By far the most important pollen sources of the anthidiine bees as a whole are the Compositae (41.7%) followed by the Leguminosae (23.1%) and the Labiatae (13.0%). The phylogenetic relationships of the anthidiine bees were estimated by a cladistic analysis based on 115 characters to trace possible evolutionary patterns of diet composition. Based on the estimated phylogeny, at least eight shifts of oligoleges between different plant taxa and six transitions between oligolecty and polylecty appear to have occurred. Four transitions were from oligolecty to polylecty whereas two transitions are of unknown direction, both directions being equally parsimonious. Assuming that the ancestral state in the anthidiine bees was oligolectic, the present distribution of oligolectic and polylectic species can be explained solely by switches from the oligolectic to the polylectic habit and by shifts of oligoleges between different plant taxa. Three of four transitions from oligolecty to polylecty are accompanied by a reduction in bee body size. The significance of this size reduction with respect to the polylectic habit is discussed. The oligolectic anthidiine species visit significantly fewer flower species for pollen during a single foraging bout than the polylectic species. On average, 1.4 plant species were recorded in the loads of specialists compared to 2.2 for generalists. Two monophyletic groups of bees belonging to the genus Anthidium are equipped with a pollen-collecting apparatus consisting of specialized hairs localized either on the face or on the underside of the thorax. It is used to remove pollen from the raised anthers of flowers of the Labiatae and the Scrophulariaceae and to brush pollen from the flat inflorescences of some Compositae, respectively. The observation of flower-visiting females of several anthidiine species revealed that pollen uptake is far from an accidental process. Basic pollen-harvesting techniques have reached a high degree of efficiency: females of a given bee species worked flowers of a certain plant species in a fixed manner, the structures used for pollen uptake from the same flower type were found to be largely the same among anthidiine bees of different taxonomic groups, and no distinct differences with respect to the basic pattern of pollen removal from flowers of the same architecture were obvious when comparing oligolectic and polylectic species. On the other hand, polyleges showed a high intraspecific flexibility regarding the organs used for pollen uptake from flowers of a different architecture.
10.2307/1942320|Several stochastic models of the process of parasitism, each incorporating learning in a different way, are developed. The clues the parasitoid learns to use to find its hosts are divided into two types, clues to individual hosts and clues to the host's habitat. The value of clues to the habitat can be a reflection of the spatial distribution of the hosts. The conclusions suggested by the experimental test of the models with the ichneumonid wasp Nemeritis canescens are that Nemeritis can learn to hunt its hosts in a novel environment;that a model postulating the learning of clues to the hosts fits better than a model postulating the learning of one: and that learning is potentially a stabilizing factor in the dynamics of host-parasite systems.
10.2307/1942471|Pollen and plant macrofossil studies at 11 sites in New Jersey, southern and eastern Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Virginia, USA reveal the character of the stable vegetation of the unglaciated eastern United States while the Wisconsin ice sheet was still at its outer limit. Grass-dominated tundra with dwarf shrubs was present 60 km south of the ice front at Longswamp, Pennsylvania. Sedge tundra covered the higher mountains of central Appalachia. In southern Pennsylvania, New Jersey (including the Pine Barrens), and northern Virginia, Picea (black or white spruce) was common, with Betula glandulosa (dwarf birch) and tall herbs, especially Sanguisorba canadensis (burnet). This is interpreted as forest tundra. In North and South Carolina and in northwest Georgia, forests of Picea and Pinus banksiana (jack pine) were present, with few deciduous trees. No site is yet known where broad-leaved trees formed the predominant vegetation cover anywhere on the Coastal Plain or in the Florida peninsula. With climatic warming, dwarf birch and spruce expanded into the tundra in unglaciated Pennsylvania. At Crider's Pond in southern Pennsylvania a Picea/Betula glandulosa assemblage with tall herbs was present from 15 000 to 13 000 yr BP. The associated aquatic flora was species poor. About 13 000 yr BP Abies balsamea (fir), Pinus banksiana, and Alnus cf. rugosa (speckled alder) invaded, together with diverse tree and shrub species, an assemblage like the southern boreal forest today. Betula populifolia (grey birch) occurs in this assemblage at Longswamp; there the aquatic flora is species rich. The increase in species diversity is evidence of marked climatic warming about 13 000 yr BP in southern and eastern Pennsylvania. Picea rubens (red spruce) arrived at Crider's Pond shortly before 11 500 yr BP, followed soon after by Pinus strobus (white pine). At Tannersville in glaciated eastern Pennsylvania an invasion series Picea-Abies-Pinus banksiana-Betula papyrifera (paper birch)-Larix laricina (tamarack)-Pinus strobus-Betula populifolia-Pinus rigida (pitch pine) can be demonstrated between 13 000 and 9000 yr BP. The stable flora of the periglacial region was different from the pioneer flora of the deglaciated area and from the vegetation of the modern tundra. As the ice withdrew, Tsuga (hemlock) and other tree species for which there is little or no fossil record at the height of the glaciation appeared in large populations in central Appalachia and the northern coastal plain, from which they invaded the deglaciated region at different rates. Castanea (chestnut), a slow migrant, took 5000 yr to reach southern New England from central Appalachia. Persistent tundra made the higher mountains of central Appalachia an important phytogeographical barrier to tree migration until about 12 500 yr BP. It explains differences in forest history west and east of the mountains. Tamarack seems to have migrated eastward from a glacial refuge south of the Great Lakes region. The distinctive modern vegetation of the Pine Barrens was assembled after about 10 000 yr BP. Climatically the periglacial region was cold, dry, and windy. The early Holocene from 10 000 to 6000 yr BP was warmer and drier than now, although not so dry as the Late Wisconsin. It can be identified as the Hypsithermal Interval. The subsequent expansion of Pinus may be attributed to a wetter climate, which caused increased bog and swamp formation and possibly also replacement of deciduous trees by pines as storm and fire frequency increased and soils were progressively leached of nutrients.
10.2307/2937102|The model of competition for light presented here uses modular autonomy to incorporate plasticity in plant growth under competition. Once plants are characterized as composed of modules, then model structure for competition changes in a fundamental way. Interactions between the plant module and its local resource environment must be modeled rather than the traditionally viewed interactions between whole plants and their neighbors. We assume that a plant module interacts with its local resource environment regardless of whether this environment was altered by a neighbor or by the same plant. Two spatial processes are considered: resource acquisition and growth. The spatial pattern of resource acquisition by a module determines a growth and allocation pattern, e.g., the elongation of branches into a gap. The spatial structure of a module and its connection to the whole tree then determines the pattern of resource distribution and resource acquisition of the next time step.Plasticity of plant growth is incorporated by variation in both the efficiency of resource capture of modules and patterns of resource allocation for individuals of different canopy positions and results in individuals in the community having different spatial structures. The model simulates the three-dimensional development of tree crown structure over time. It is applied to the 30-yr development of a dense, spatially aggregated stand of Abies amabilis beginning with an initial pattern of seedlings. The importance of incorporation of plasticity is apparent when the model output is compared to observed height distribution and crown structure data. Simulations indicate that asymmetrical crown development, one form of plasticity, is advantageous to stand productivity and becomes more advantageous as the degree of spatial aggregation in the initial spacing of trees increases.
4539097|The forest insect pest Bupalus piniarius (pine looper moth) is a classic example of a natural population cycle. As is typical for populations that exhibit regular oscillations in density, there are several biological mechanisms that are hypothesized to be responsible for the cycles; but despite several decades of detailed study there has been no definite conclusion as to which mechanism is most important. We evaluated three hypotheses for which there was direct experimental evidence: (1) food quality (nutritional value of pine needles affected by defoliation); (2) parasitoids (trophic interactions with specialist parasitoids); and (3) maternal effects (maternal body size affects the performance of offspring). We reviewed the empirical evidence for each of these hypotheses and expressed each hypothesis in the form of a mechanistic dynamic model. We used a nonlinear forecasting approach to fit each model to three long-term population time series in Britain that exhibit some degree of regular cycling, and we used parametric bootstrap to evaluate the significance of differences between models in their goodness of fit to the data. The results differed among the three forests: at Culbin, the parasitoid and maternal effects models fit equally well; at Roseisle, the food quality and maternal effects models fit equally well; and at Tentsmuir, the parasitoid model fit best. However, the best-fit parasitism models required that the parasitism rate vary between nearly 0 and nearly 1 during a cycle, greatly exceeding the range of parasitism rates that have been observed in the field. In contrast, the required variation in the observable maternal quality variable (pupal mass) was within the range of empirical observations. Under mild constraints on the parasitism rate (though allowing a much wider range than has been measured in B. piniarius at any location), the fit of the parasitism model fell off dramatically. The maternal effects model then had uniformly strong support, outperforming the constrained parasitism model at all three sites and the food quality model at two; it performed slightly better than the food quality model at the remaining site. This represents the first system in which the maternal effects hypothesis for population cycles has been supported by both strong biological and dynamical evidence.
23596921|The large-crowned emergent tree Microberlinia bisulcata dominates rain forest groves at Korup National Park, Cameroon, along with two codominants, Tetraberlinia bifoliolata and T. korupensis. M. bisulcata has a pronounced modal size frequency distribution around 110 cm stem diameter: its recruitment potential is very poor. It is a long-lived light-demanding species, one of many found in African forests. Tetraberlinia species lack modality, are more shade tolerant, and recruit better. All three species are ectomycorrhizal. M. bisulcata dominates grove basal area, even though it has similar numbers of trees (50 cm stem diameter) as each of the other two species. This situation presented a conundrum that prompted a long-term study of grove dynamics. Enumerations of two plots (82.5 and 56.25 ha) between 1990 and 2010 showed mortality and recruitment of M. bisulcata to be very low (both rates 0.2% per year) compared with Tetraberlinia (2.4% and 0.8% per year), and M. bisulcata grows twice as fast as the Tetraberlinia. Ordinations indicated that these three species determined community structure by their strong negative associations while other species showed almost none. Ranked species abundance curves fitted the Zipf-Mandelbrot model well and allowed "overdominance" of M. bisulcata to be estimated. Spatial analysis indicated strong repulsion by clusters of large (50 to <100 cm) and very large (100 cm) M. bisulcata of their own medium-sized (10 to <50 cm) trees and all sizes of Tetraberlinia. This was interpreted as competition by M. bisulcata increasing its dominance, but also inhibition of its own replacement potential. Stem coring showed a modal age of 200 years for M. bisulcata, but with large size variation (50150 cm). Fifty-year model projections suggested little change in medium, decreases in large, and increases in very large trees of M. bisulcata, accompanied by overall decreases in medium and large trees of Tetraberlinia species. Realistically increasing very-large-tree mortality led to grove collapse without short-term replacement. M. bisulcata most likely depends on climatic events to rebuild its stands: the ratio of disturbance interval to median species' longevity is important. A new theory of transient dominance explains how M. bisulcata may be cycling in abundance over time and displaying nonequilibrium dynamics.
43188344|The impact of herbivores on primary producers in differing oceanographie regimes is a matter of intense ecological interest due to ongoing changes in their abundance, that of their predators, and anthropomorphic alteration of nutrient cycles and climatic patterns. Interactions between productivity and herbivory in marine habitats have been studied on temperate rocky shores, coral reefs, mangroves, and salt marshes, but less so at tropical latitudes. To determine how herbivore-alga dynamics varied with oceanographie regime, we used the comparative-experimental approach in rocky intertidal communities on the Galpagos Islands from January 2006 to January 2009. This setting was selected because strongly contrasting oceanographie conditions occurred within a range of ~181 km, with significant differences in temperature, nutrients, phytoplankton productivity, and intertidal communities, and in abundance of macro-herbivores, including marine iguanas. Experiments and measurements were conducted at two sites in each of three oceanographie regimes characterized by low, intermediate, and high bottom-up inputs. At sites of low inputs, macroherbivores (fish, crabs, iguanas) had a consistent top-down effect, reducing algal abundance, and leaving a few grazer-resistant varieties. At sites of intermediate and high inputs, consumer impacts were stronger during La Nia (cool phase) than during El Nio (warm phase). At sites of high inputs, algal biomass was naturally relatively high and was dominated by the edible algae Ulva spp. Macro-grazers reduced algal biomass, but their primary effect was indirect, as articulated corallines displaced other species of algae in their absence. Prior results from the tropics had revealed dominant effects of top-down interactions and recruitment in structuring intertidal communities. Our results suggest that, when a broader ocanographie scenario is taken into account, the relative importance of top-down and bottom-up forces are context dependent, varying with oceanographie regime and climatic variability.
10.2307/2937325|This paper presents some concepts and methodology essential for the analysis of population dynamics of univoltine species. Simple stochastic difference equations, comprised of endogenous and exogenous components, are introduced to provide a basic structure for density-dependent population processes. The endogenous component of a population process is modelled as a function of density in the past p generations, including the most recent. The exogenous component of the process consists of all density-independent components of the ecological factors involved, including enhance variations. The model is called a p^t^h order density-dependent process. For a successful analysis of a population process by the above model, it is important that the process be in a state of statistical equilibrium, or stationarity. The simplest notion of stationarity is introduced, and the average behavior of the process, under this assumption, discussed. The order of density dependence in the population process of a given species depends on its interaction with other species involved in the food web. Considering certain attributes of the food web, in particular the limited number of trophic levels, the pyrmaid of numbers, the linear linkages between closely interacting species, and niche separation among competing species, it is argued that the order of density dependence is probably not much higher than three. A second-order model is perhaps adequate in many practical cases. The dynamics of some lower order density-dependent processes are compared by simulations, with a view to showing the effect of density-dependent and density-independent components at different orders. Several types of density dependence are discussed. If a given factor influencing the temporal variation in density is by itself influenced by density, it is called @'causally density-dependent,@' which may reveal itself by some degree of correlation with density. A density-independent factor, however, may also show some sort of correlation with density in the recent past. This is called @'statistically density-dependent.@' Such statistical density dependence may be due to: (1) spurious correlation, (2) bias in an estimator of the correlation coefficient, (3) autocorrelations in the density-independent factor, and (4) an intriguing mathematical property of the stochastic process. Particularly because of the last two reasons, it is often difficult to distinguish, by correlation method, between causal and statistical density dependence. Distinction also exists between temporal and spatial density dependence, the latter not necessarily implying the involvement of the former. The importance of the distinction between these types of density dependence is discussed in relation to the data analysis and model building. A Statistical analysis of the effect of ecological factors on population dynamics is attempted. Since it is often difficult to determine, by correlation, the causally density-dependent structure of a population process under the influence of some unknown density-independent factors, it is suggested that we reverse the procedure to determine the effect of the density-independent factors first. To confirm the involvement of some suspected density-independent factors in the species dynamics, I propose several methods of correlation between annual fluctuations in some population parameters, such as density, rate of change in density, and their transforms, and those in suitable indices of the suspected factors. Merits, demerits, and limitations of these methods are also discussed. To simplify the arguments, the correlation models are set up first without stage division, and then are elaborated to those in which the whole generation span is divided into several life-cycle stages, so that life table information can be used effectively for the identification of the density-independent factors involved in each stage. A set of life tables of the spruce budworm, Choristoneura fumiferana (Clem.), is analyzed to provide an example of the application of the above concepts and methods. Concluding remarks include some notes on designing life table studies.
10.2307/2937279|The release of phytotoxic compounds has been proposed to be involved in the inhibition of seed germination under the canopy of Adenostoma fasciculatum (McPherson and Muller 1969). McPherson et al. (1971) tentatively identified the phytotoxins as phenolic compounds; however, the soil extraction data presented in this study indicate that insufficient quantities of available phenolics are present in the soil to account for the lack of growth observed in the field. Soil from burned and unburned Adenostoma-dominated sites were exchanged and planted with herb seeds. While toxicity developed in soil from the unburned site, the resulting pattern of germination suggested that the toxicity originated from the soil and not from the shrub canopy. Treatments to disrupt the metabolism of soil microbes, and to isolate selectively the microbial fraction from the soil, as well as other experiments, lead to the conclusion that the soil toxicity was the result of phytotoxins of microbial origin. It is suggested that the role of Adenostoma in the suppression of herb growth may lie in its association with soil microbes that produce and release substances capable of inhibiting the germination and growth of plants.
10.2307/1942354|Ninety-four species of Orthoptera (s. lat.) occur along an altitudinal transect from 5,000 ft (1,530 m) to above 14,000 ft (4,265 m) in the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains of Colorado, near 40@? N. Lat. These were sampled, with observations on life histories in relation to altitude, at a series of altitudinally spaced stations during the seasons of 1949, 1958, 1959, and 1960, the stations being selected for maximum variety of Orthoptera at each altitude. Other observations of the past 35 years were added. Sampling was by a sweeping technique designed to be qualitatively exhaustive of species and age groups; it was thus quasiquantitative. Times of hatching, times of different juvenile stages, and times of maturing were determined for species at the different altitudes at which they occurred. These data are summarized by species, the 94 species being in the following families: Mantidae, 2; Phasmidae, 1; Tetrigidae, 4; Acrididae, 73; Tettigoniidae, 8; Gryllacrididae, 3; Gryllidae, 3. Numbers of resident species found in 1,000 ft altitudinal bands were as follows: 5-6,000 ft, 71; 6-7,000 ft, 49; 7-8,000 ft, 34; 8-9,000 ft, 25; 9-10,000 ft, 19; 10-11,000 ft, 15; 11-12,000 ft, 9; over 12,000 ft, 3. Larger average numbers of individuals per species occur at higher elevations. Many more species of low frequency occur at low altitudes than high, the total number of species known from a given high altitude station often being present in a single collection, while, at low altitude stations, even the most varied collection lacks species occasionally collected there. The reduction in species numbers with altitude is correlated with a similar reduction with latitude, and the geographic distribution of particular species of Orthoptera is correlated with altitude. Of the 18 species of Acrididae recorded north of 60@? N. Lat. in North America nine are common to abundant in the area of study up to 10,000 ft, six of these to 11,000 ft or more. However, three strictly montane species from above 10,000 ft are not known from the far north. The altitudinal distribution of the 36 most common species provided a basis for testing various suggested schemes of altitudinal zonation. A few high plains species that feed only on forbs are apparently restricted in part by the distribution of host plants, and a few grass-feeders do not invade the grassy clearings in montane forest, but the majority of species occurring on the high plains do range into clearings in the lower montane forest up to about 7,000 ft. Pest species with wide altitudinal ranges are essentially indiscriminate plant feeders. The reduction in number of species of Orthoptera with altitude is much greater than the reduction in number of plant species, so variety of plants is not a limiting factor in their altitudinal distribution. A more important factor is apparently the length of growing season--in particular its abbreviation at the end. Evidence for this is the occurrence of early juvenile instars of some species above the altitude at which the species normally completes its life cycle. Evidence was found for the relations between phenology and altitude postulated by A. D. Hopkins in the times of maturing of species with wide altitudinal ranges, with events somewhat earlier than expected at the highest altitudes. Events that occur near the middle of the summer (hatching of eggs of species that overwinter as juveniles) are independent of altitude, but this too is the harmony with the Hopkins law.
3100078|To make quantitative predictions about the pollen dispersal of a plant species under different environmental conditions, it is necessary to determine its individual pollen dispersal function, i.e., the two-dimensional density function describing the probability that a pollen grain emitted in (0, 0) fertilizes an ovule in (x, y). This function will depend on biological and climate parameters. We present models for the individual dispersal function of corn. These models are based on Brownian motion with drift and integrate biological (difference of height between male and female flowers) and aerodynamic (settling velocity, wind speed, air turbulence) parameters. The models presented differ in the importance of vegetation in stopping the paths of pollen grains. The models were fitted to data from two large field experiments of corn using the color of kernels as a phenotypic marker for pollen dispersal. The resulting estimations for the parameters of the models and comparisons between models indicate that (1) these models can provide good predictions of the observed data, (2) vegetation is not the major obstacle that stops pollen paths, and (3) there is a benefit in considering the difference in height between male and female flowers. Furthermore, values of the parameters estimated from dispersal data appear consistent with meteorological and biological data acquired independently.
10.2307/2937268|The level of energy expenditure in eutherian mammals is correlated with the type of food consumed, especially in medium-sized to large species; some foods (including vertebrates, herbs, and nuts) permit high basal rates, while other foods (including invertebrates, fruit, and the leaves of woody plants) require low basal rates. Various properties of a food, including a low digestibility, a high content of plant secondary compounds, the inability to separate food from non-nutritive particles, and a seasonal reduction in availability, may require a consumer to have a low basal rate of metabolism; all of these factors are exaggerated in importance by the high food intake of large mammals. In small species most foods, except flying insects and seed crops in the desert, permit high basal rates and effective endothermy. Climatic factors modify these relationships to a limited extent, while a specialization in moderately-sized species to arboreal habits leads to reduced activity, smaller muscle mass, and lower basal rate than is found in terrestrial species using the same food resources. Mixed diets generally produce basal rates intermediate to those expected from the component specialist diets. The correlation of basal rate with food habits has the following demonstrable consequences for mammals. (1) The scaling of basal rate usually follows the Kleiber relation, unless food habits require low basal rates, or temperature regulation requires high rates. (2) Mammals that feed on foods associated with high basal rates have a higher reproductive output than mammals of similar size that use foods requiring low basal rates. (3) Predator avoidance is correlated with level of energy expenditure and food habits, terrestrial species with low rates of metabolism relying principally on burrows or passive integumental structures, such as shells, plates, or spines. (4) Most living @'conservative@' mammals use foods that require low basal rates of metabolism, a condition that protects conservative species from replacement by @'advanced@' eutherians, which are also required by these foods to have low basal rates.
10.2307/3100052|We investigated the influence of physical characteristics at the local (quadrat) and landscape (sandbar, channel, and river cross-section) scale on the distribution of pioneer tree seedlings (Acer saccharinum, Betula nigra, Populus deltoides, and Salix spp.) on 30 sandbars along a 16-km reach of the Wisconsin River in 1998. At the landscape scale, new seedlings were most frequent in side channels that were inactive (stagnant) at low river flow, older seedlings were most frequent in narrower side channels, and saplings were most frequent on higher sandbars and in narrower channels. At the local scale, seedling occurrence in individual 1 x 2 m quadrats (n = 692) was significantly related to the horizontal and topographic position and the vegetative cover on the quadrat. Landscape relationships for species that dispersed prior to a small midsummer flood (Acer and Betula) were stronger than models for later dispersers (Populus and Salix), and models for old seedlings and saplings were stronger than those for new seedlings. Both local and landscape variables were significant for explaining local seedling occurrence, and significant landscape x local scale interactions suggested that the influences of some local variables on seedling occurrence were conditional on landscape context. All in all, our results suggest that both local and landscape variables influence the distribution of riparian vegetation, that the influence of local variables may be constrained by landscape context, and that the influence of landscape variables may increase with seedling age.
10.2307/2657245|We assessed the relative importance of environmental variation, interspecific competition for space, and predator abundance on assemblage structure and microhabitat use in a stream fish assemblage inhabiting Coweeta Creek, North Carolina, USA. Our study encompassed a 10-yr time span (1983-1992) and included some of the highest and lowest flows in the last 58 years. We collected 16 seasonal samples which included data on: (1) habitat availability (total and microhabitat) and microhabitat diversity, (2) assemblage structure (i.e., the number and abundances of species comprising a subset of the community), and (3) microhabitat use and overlap. We classified habitat availability data on the basis of year, season, and hydrologic period. Hydrologic period (i.e., pre-drought [PR], drought [D], and post-drought [PO]) represented the temporal location of a sample with respect to a four-year drought that occurred during the study. Hydrologic period explained a greater amount of variance in habitat availability data than either season or year. Total habitat availability was significantly greater during PO than in PR or D, although microhabitat diversity did not differ among either seasons or hydrologic periods. There were significantly fewer high-flow events (i.e., 2.1 m
4134797|Mutualisms are almost ubiquitously exploited by species that gain the benefits that mutualists offer to each other, but that offer nothing in return. This paper investigates the possible dynamical outcomes of a mechanistically formulated model system, involving two obligate mutualists and one exploiter. The model is based conceptually on a mutualism between a plant species and its pollinating seed parasite, in the presence of an obligate, nonpollinating seed parasite. Of particular interest are the conditions under which the exploiter species can invade and coexist with a mutualism that, by itself, possesses an equilibrium stabilized by other density-dependent regulating factors. Two types of models are used in the analyses: a deterministic, nonspatial model described by a set of discrete time equations, and an individual-based simulation incorporating stochastic interactions and spatial structure. Comparing the results of these two models uncovers the temporal dynamics of both well-mixed local systems and spatially distributed populations. Using these two situations, we examine how the predictions of the nonspatial model are affected by habitat structure. In the nonspatial case, and without the exploiters, there are typically two stable equilibria: one having zero densities for both mutualist species, and the other having nonzero densities. This bi-stability is a characteristic feature of obligate mutualisms. When the exploiter species is included, the system always retains the stability of the zero-density equilibrium, but the dynamics of the upper equilibrium can be more complicated, including limit cycle and extinction dynamics. Simulation results demonstrate that spatial structure is a highly stabilizing influence on the three-species system as long as the exploiter's dispersal distance is large relative to the seed dispersal distance of the plant species. Given this condition, the model predicts spatial distributions that are marked by a patchy distribution of plants, with mutualists and exploiters situated about these patches.
23047069|Little is known about how epizootics in natural populations affect vital rates and population structure, or about the process of recovery after an outbreak subsides. We investigated the effects of aspergillosis, an infectious disease caused by the fungal pathogen Aspergillus sydowii, on the demography of a gorgonian coral, Gorgonia ventalina. Caribbean sea fans were affected by a seven-year epizootic, marked by an initial period in 1994 of high infection prevalence, high mortality rates, and almost complete reproductive failure of infected fans. Post epizootic, in 2005, host populations were relatively healthy, with low disease prevalence. Using longitudinal data from populations on coral reefs in the Florida Keys (USA) and the Yucatn Peninsula (Mexico), we documented changes in the epidemiology of sea fan aspergillosis over the course of the epizootic. We developed an "integral projection model" that scales disease impacts from individual to population levels using direct estimates of vital rates. Within-colony lesion growth rate and host mortality were higher during the peak of the epizootic. Effects on individuals and populations changed substantially post-epizootic; recruitment increased, mortality of infected adults decreased, and the size dependence of infection was reduced. Elasticity analysis indicated that population growth is more sensitive to changes in the growth and survival of established colonies than to recruitment, due to slow colony growth and the longevity and fecundity of large adults. Disease prevalence in our monitored populations decreased from 50% in 1997 to <10% by 2003 and <1% in 2007 and was accompanied by very high mortality during the early stages of the epizootic. The population model suggested that host evolution (due to selection for higher disease resistance through differential mortality) could proceed quickly enough to explain the observed changes in prevalence and in the size independence of infection risk. Our model indicates that the time required for population recovery following an outbreak is largely determined by the percentage of healthy tissue lost from the population. However, recovery following an especially severe outbreak (i.e., 80% or more tissue loss) is much faster if the affected population receives an external supply of recruits from unaffected areas.
27646156|We used quantitative fatty acid signature analysis (QFASA) to examine the diets of 1738 individual polar bears (Ursus maritimus) sampled across the Canadian Arctic over a 30-year span. Polar bear foraging varied over large and small spatial and temporal scales, and between demographic groups. Diets in every subpopulation were dominated by ringed seals (Phoca hispida) and, in the eastern Arctic, secondarily by harp seals (Pagophilus groenlandica). Beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) were an important food source for bears in the High Arctic, which is consistent with previous anecdotal reports. Foraging patterns were most similar among neighboring subpopulations with similar prey assemblages, but also differed geographically within Western Hudson Bay. The sexual size dimorphism of polar bears had an important effect on foraging, as large bearded seals (Erignathus barbatus) and walruses (Odobenus rosmarus) were consumed most often by older, male bears, whereas ringed seals and, where available, harbor seals (P. vitulina) were most important to younger age classes. Larger, older bears also had the greatest dietary diversity, apparently because of their ability to include larger-bodied prey. During spring and summer, polar bears in some areas increased predation on migratory harp seals and beluga whales. In Western Hudson Bay, bearded seal consumption declined between 1995 and 2001 for both male and female bears and continued to decline among females up to the most recent sampling (2004). Ringed seal consumption in Western Hudson Bay increased between 1998 and 2001, perhaps in response to increased ringed seal productivity, but was not significantly affected by date of sea-ice breakup. Overall, our data indicate that polar bears are capable of opportunistically altering their foraging to take advantage of locally abundant prey, or to some degree compensating for a decline in a dominant prey species. However, in other areas polar bears are dependent on the availability of ringed and bearded seals. Recent population data suggest that polar bears with the most specialized diets may be most vulnerable to climate-related changes in ice conditions. The results of this large-scale, ecosystem-based study indicate a complex relationship between sea-ice conditions, prey population dynamics, and polar bear foraging.
10.2307/2657210|Bird community response to both landscape-scale and local (forest types) changes in forest cover was studied in three boreal mixed-wood forest landscapes modified by different types of disturbances: (1) a pre-industrial landscape where human settlement, agriculture, and logging activities date back to the early 1930s, (2) an industrial timber managed forest, and (3) a forest dominated by natural disturbances. Birds were sampled at 459 sampling stations distributed among the three landscapes. Local habitat and landscape characteristics of the context surrounding each sampling station (500-m and 1-km radius) were also computed. Bird communities were influenced by landscape-scale changes in forest cover. The higher proportion of early-successional habitats in both human-disturbed landscapes resulted in significantly higher abundance of early-successional bird species and generalists. The mean number of mature forest bird species was significantly lower in the industrial and pre-industrial landscapes than in the natural landscape. Landscape-scale conversion of mature forests from mixed-wood to deciduous cover in human-disturbed landscapes was the main cause of changes in mature forest bird communities. In these landscapes, the abundance of species associated with mixed and coniferous forest cover was lower, whereas species that preferred a deciduous cover were more abundant. Variation in bird community composition determined by the landscape context was as important as local habitat conditions, suggesting that predictions on the regional impact of forest management on songbirds with models solely based on local scale factors could be misleading. Patterns of bird species composition were related to several landscape composition variables (proportions of forest types), but not to configuration variables (e.g., interior habitat, amount of edge). Overall, our results indicated that the large-scale conversion of the southern portion of the boreal forest from a mixed to a deciduous cover may be one of the most important threats to the integrity of bird communities in these forest mosaics. Negative effects of changes in bird communities could be attenuated if current forestry practices are modified toward maintaining forest types (deciduous, mixed-wood, and coniferous) at levels similar to those observed under natural disturbances.
10.2307/1942193|Rates of weight loss and nutrient release (N, P, S, K, Mn, Ca, Zn, Fe, Mn, Cu, Na) were measured in decomposing leaf and branch tissue form yellow birch, sugar maple, and beech, and in branch tissue from red spruce and balsam fir. Neither leaf nor branch decomposition differed significantly over an elevational range of 220 m. Decomposition rates for leaves varied with yellow birch > sugar maple > beech. The decomposition rate for hardwood branches was greater than that for conifer branches, but differences between hardwoods were not significant. Maximum decomposition rates occurred during the summer for both branch and leaf tissue. The rate of nutrient release from decomposing branch and leaf litter appears to be correlated with nutrient concentration in current litter fall, precipitation, and leaf wash. The concentration and absolute weight of N. S. and P in the leaf litter of all species increased with time. The amount of the increase as well as the initiation of nutrient release was influenced by C: element ratios in the leaf tissue. These studies also indicate that P levels can influence the mineralization or immobilization of other important nutrients. Carbon-to-element ratios in decomposing litter varied between species and elevation at different times of the year, but element: P ratios were much more uniform. In branch tissue the physical loss of N- and P-rich bark and buds offset any increase in concentration that would have occurred through decomposition. Potassium and magnesium were rapidly released from the litter by leaching. Similar minimum concentrations in leaf tissue indicate that critical C: element ratios also exist for these elements. Calcium release was similar to dry weight loss, indicating that it is a structural component primarily released by decomposition. Maximum nutrient release from current litter occurred in the autumn and summer. It was not correlated with the nutrient output from the ecosystem which occurred primarily during the spring. The net output of Ca, Mg, and K from the watershed was very small compared to quantities released from current litter. Factors which contribute to the complex nature of decomposition are: seasonal heterotroph activity, heterotroph nutrient demand, environmental conditions regulations heterotroph activity, species tissue palatability, species composition of litter, tissue composition of litter, nutrient content of litter, nutrient mobility, and nutrient input (i.e., leafwash, litter fall).
10.2307/2937060|Our approach to testing nonlinear population theory is to connect rigorously mathematical models with data by means of statistical methods for nonlinear time series. We begin by deriving a biologically based demographic model. The mathematical analysis identifies boundaries in parameter space where stable equilibria bifurcate to periodic 2-cycles and aperiodic motion on invariant loops. The statistical analysis, based on a stochastic version of the demographic model, provides procedures for parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, and model evaluation. Experiments using the flour beetle Tribolium yield the time series data. A three-dimensional map of larval, pupal, and adult numbers forecasts four possible population behaviors: extinction, equilibria, periodicities, and aperiodic motion including chaos. This study documents the nonlinear prediction of periodic 2-cycles in laboratory cultures of Tribolium and represents a new interdisciplinary approach to understanding nonlinear ecological dynamics.
10.2307/1942558|The object of this study was to determine whether interspecific competition modified local geographic distribution, after taking into account the effect of habitat structure. The tendencies for 14 passerine birds to have positive or negative associations were examined, using 7861 sample points in seven native forests on the islands of Hawaii, Maui, and Kauai. All birds were at least partly insectivorous and were fairly common in forested areas, although some fed chiefly on nectar or fruit. Species-pairs were classified as primary or secondary potential competitors based on general dietary similarity. To evaluate the association between species and to account for the effect of individual species habitat preferences, partial correlations were computed for each species-pair in a study area from the simple correlations between the species and 26 habitat variables plus two quadratic terms to represent nonlinearity. The partial correlations represented a short-term (@'instantaneous@') assessment of the strength of competitive interactions, and did not reflect the accumulation of competitive displacement through time. Of 170 partial correlations in the analysis, only 10 indicated significant negative association. The general pattern was of positive association (76 significantly positive partials), which probably resulted from flocking and from attraction of birds to areas of resource superabundance. Two species showed consistent patterns of negative partial correlations over several adjacent study areas, the Japanese White-eye/Iiwi in montane Hawaii, and the Japanese White-eye/Elepaio in windward Hawaii; both patterns could be reasonably attributed to direct competition. Species-pairs were grouped by the native or exotic status of the component species. Native/exotic pairs had a significantly greater proportion of negative partial correlations (37%) than either native/native pairs (8%) or exotic/exotic pairs (0%). This pattern was consistent across the seven study areas and appeared to reflect the occurrence of interspecific competition along a broad and diffuse ecological @'front@' between a co-evolved native avifauna and recently introduced exotic species. The role of competition in the pattern was corroborated by the significantly higher proportion of negative partial correlations among species-pairs of primary potential competitors than among those of secondary potential competitors. Our results suggested that @?47% of the primary potential competitors among native/exotic species-pairs may experience at least small depressions in local population density due to competition. Although the negative correlations were for the most part small (average negative r = 0.06), one species could eventually replace another as spatial displacement accumulated through time. The Japanese White-eye appeared to have a principal role in native/exotic interactions, with 62% of the partial correlations between it and native primary potential competitor species being negative. Noteworthy implications were that (1) it was important to account for the habitat responses of individual species when studying the role of interspecific competition in modifying small-scale geographic distribution; (2) competition was frequently sporadic in its geographic occurrence and in the species affected, thus supporting Wiens' (1977) theory of competition; and (3) as a consequence, the role of interspecific competition in modifying distribution may be difficult to detect statistically with small data sets.
3100018|To date, almost no experimental field studies have attempted to assess the factors that generate heterogeneity in the distribution of parasitism risk, a putative indicator of host-parasitoid stability. In this study, I examined the interaction between a planthopper Prokelisia crocea and its egg parasitoid Anagrus columbi among discrete patches of prairie cordgrass, Spartina pectinata. In particular, I examined how patch geography and host distribution within a patch influenced the distribution of adult parasitoids, parasitoid oviposition behavior, the proportion of hosts parasitized, and the aggregation of parasitism (CV
4539043|The periodicity, synchrony, and causes of variability in the demography of tree leaves in ecosystems with relatively aseasonal climates, such as tropical rain forests, is still poorly understood. To address this issue, we surveyed the timing of birth and death of >40 000 leaves of 1445 individuals of 23 evergreen rain forest species in several late primary and early secondary successional plant communities at San Carlos de Rio Negro, Venezuela, in the northern Amazon basin. In all species, the mortality rate generally increased with leaf age. However, in many species, deceleration of death rates with extreme leaf age was noted. In general, for each species, the age structure of leaf populations and the frequency distribution of leaf life span were broad. Species differed substantially in their leaf demography. Measured in their native habitats, seven species common to disturbed open sites had shorter median life spans (0.7 yr) than five species common to open but infertile Bana primary communities (1.9 yr average) or six species common to two tall primary forest communities (Tierra Firme and Caatinga), when measured in high-light conditions in the canopy (2.0 yr average). Variation in light availability had consistent effects on leaf life span in all species. Species native to Tierra Firme forest had average leaf life spans of 3.2, 1.9, and 1.6 yr, respectively, in deeply shaded understory microsites, in small gaps, and in sunlit mature tree canopies. Species native to Caatinga forest had average leaf life spans of 4.2, 3.4, and 2.5 yr, respectively, in these same microsite types. Two species common in gaps and in disturbed sites had much longer leaf life span in shaded understory than in open, disturbed microsites. For all species, responses were similar when trees were planted in sites differing in light availability, as when trees naturally established across light gradients. The rate of leaf production, the risk of leaf mortality, and the leaf life span were not periodic or related consistently to seasonality of climate. Negligible relationships existed between the mild annual dry season and either leaf production or leaf mortality in all species. Thus, leaf phenology and demography were essentially aseasonal in this tropical forest environment.
10.2307/1942563|The influences of predation, competition, biological disturbance, exposure to wave action, and inclination and heterogeneity of the substratum on the structure of the rocky intertidal community of New England were studied with a combination of experiments and observations at six areas in Maine and Massachusetts from 1972-1975. Several aspects of community structure (seasonal utilization of primary and canopy space, relative abundances of predators, trophic structure, species richness) were determined at five areas spanning a wave exposure gradient. Primary space at exposed areas was dominated by the barnacle Balanus balanoides (high intertidal) and the mussel Mytilus edulis (mid-intertidal). Fucoid algae and mobile carnivores and herbivores were scarce and species numbers were low at these areas. The availability of free primary space is usually <10% at exposed areas, except in late winter and early spring when large areas of substratum are cleared of animals by storms, and up to 90% of the primary space may be free of sessile species. The only obvious similarity in community structure at exposed and protected areas is the usual dominance of the high intertidal by B. balanoides. The mid-intertidal of protected areas is usually characterized by a relatively large proportion of free primary space (40%-90%), a luxuriant fucoid canopy (Fucus spp. or Ascophyllum nodosum), relatively dense populations of carnivores and herbivores, and relatively high species richness. The primary prey of the only common intertidal predator at these areas, the snail Thais lapillus, are M. edulis and B. balanoides. The relative simplicity of this system permitted a relatively simple experimental design. Stainless steel mesh cages (3 @? 10 @? 10 cm) were used to exclude Thais and test for competition for space between B. balanoides and M. edulis; sideless cages tested for shading effects of cages, and undisturbed areas served as controls. Replicated experiments were established at points along a vertical gradient (high- to mid-intertidal) at each area. To detect variations in the effects of competition and predation in different microhabitats, cage sets were established on surfaces differing in substratum inclination, substratum heterogeneity, and algal canopy. Finally, some experiments were designed to determine possible effects of biological disturbance from herbivore activity. The major factors influencing community @'structure@' within the high intertidal zone are apparently largely those factors affecting the population ecology of B. balanoides, i.e., intraspecific competition, and various physical stresses. Neither predation nor interspecific competition had a significant influence on patterns of space utilization within this zone. However, the lower distributional limit of B. balanoides is evidently determined at the more exposed areas by competition for space with M. edulis and at less exposed areas by predation by Thais. The angle of inclination in the high intertidal has little effect on observed patterns of space occupancy; however, the effect of substratum heterogeneity is to extend the range of Mytilus and Thais upward. As an apparent result of such heterogeneity, the interface between the high- and mid-intertidal is a patchy mosaic of Balanus, Mytilus, and bare space. The mid-intertidal of exposed areas is structured primarily by interspecific competition. Space cleared experimentally or naturally in late winter (March) is rapidly occupied by B. balanoides (April-June). However, mussels settle in summer (at least June-September) and usually outcompete barnacles by August-October on horizontal and inclined substrata. If mussels are excluded, barnacles persist, which supports the hypothesis that M. edulis outcompete B. balanoides for space. The rate of interspecific competition is slowed on vertical substrata, and B. balanoides may monopolize space on these substrata for up to 2 yr before M. edulis outcompete them. Predators have no effect on space utilization at exposed areas. However, primary space utilization on all substrata in the mid-intertidal at protected areas is determined largely by predators. My experiments indicate that only when Thais are excluded does interspecific competition occur between barnacles and mussels. Otherwise, predation usually prevents either species from monopolizing primary space. Disturbance from fucoid whiplash inhibits B. balanoides settlement but does not alter the eventual outcome of the experiments. Herbivore disturbance may also inhibit barnacle settlement but this effect was detected only at artificially high herbivore densities. If B. balanoides are removed before M. edulis settle, the latter fail to monopolize space on relatively flat, bare rock, indicating space dominance by mussels is at least partly dependent on either the presence of a competitor or substratum irregularity or both. The results of experiments where three-way competition between barnacles, mussels, and Fucus spp. occurred indicated the survival of the latter is inhibited by mussels and enhanced by barnacles. The scarcity of fucoids at exposed areas may be a result of competition with mussels. Since many of the species present at relatively protected areas are directly or indirectly dependent on free primary space, observed variations in local species richness are evidently partly a function of the activity of Thais. Although this system is structurally very simple and occurs in a relatively harsh physical environment, its organization is characterized by strong interactions which have a powerful influence on observed structural patterns. A key problem in the development of a general theory of community organization is understanding the mechanism(s) behind variations in the effectiveness of predators along gradients of environmental rigor.
41739363|Paleoclimate proxies based on the measurement of xylem cell anatomy have rarely been developed across the temperature range of a species or applied to wood predating the most recent millennium. Here we describe wood anatomy-based proxies for spring temperatures in central North America from modern bur oaks (Quercus macrocarpa Michx.). The strong coherence of temperature signals across the species range supports the use of these proxies across thousands of years of climatic change. We also used 79 subfossil oak log cross sections from northern Missouri, C-dated to 9.9-13.63 ka (ka is 1000 cal yr BP), to assess the frequency of oak deposition into alluvial sediments and a subset of these oaks for a wood anatomy-based reconstruction of spring paleotemperatures. Temperatures during the Younger Dryas cold period (YD) were up to 3.5C lower than modern temperatures for that region, equivalent to or lower than those experienced at the northern edge of the modern species range. Compared to extant oaks growing at much higher [CO], subfossil oaks had greater vessel frequencies. Besides very low theoretical (or estimated) xylem conductivity near the beginning of the oak record near 13.6 ka, vessel frequencies greater than modern trees compensated for reduced vessel dimensions so that theoretical xylem conductivity was consistently above that of modern trees at the cold northern sites. Significant correlations were found between the frequency of C-dated oaks and either O from the NGRIP (North Greenland Ice Core Project) ice core or from the Cariaco grayscale marine-sediment record from the southern Caribbean sea. Oak deposition into alluvial sediments during the YD was significantly lower than expected given the average sample depth of oaks from 9.9 to 13.6 ka. Reduced oak deposition during the YD suggests that an abrupt shift in climate reduced oak populations across the region and/or changed the rates of channel movement across drainages.
23047560|Ants are omnipresent in most terrestrial ecosystems, and plants have responded to their dominance by evolving traits that either facilitate positive interactions with ants or reduce negative ones. Because ants are generally poor pollinators, plants often protect their floral nectar against ants. Ants were historically absent from the geographically isolated Hawaiian archipelago, which harbors one of the most endemic floras in the world. We hypothesized that native Hawaiian plants lack floral features that exclude ants and therefore would be heavily exploited by introduced, invasive ants. To test this hypothesis, antflower interactions involving co-occurring native and introduced plants were observed in 10 sites on three Hawaiian Islands. We quantified the residual interaction strength of each pair of antplant species as the deviation of the observed interaction frequency from a null-model prediction based on available nectar sugar in a local plant community and local ant activity at sugar baits. As predicted, flowers of plants that are endemic or indigenous to Hawaii were more strongly exploited by ants than flowers of co-occurring introduced plants, which shared an evolutionary history with ants. We also found that the percentage of plant species with ant-visited flowers was much higher in Hawaii than in other island and continental systems, even reaching 100% in habitats dominated by endemic species. We showed experimentally that the absence of ants on flowers of most introduced and few native plants species was due to morphological barriers, repellent floral scents, and to a lesser extent, unpalatable nectar. Analysis of floral volatiles, however, revealed no consistent ant-repellent "syndrome" attributable to negative responses by ants, probably due to the high chemical variability within the floral scent bouquets. Results from a molecular phylogeny imply that floral defenses against ants were convergently lost in native Hawaiian plants. Exploitation of floral nectar by ants may be an important threat to Hawaiian ecosystems, reducing nectar resources available to native flower visitors and potentially reducing the reproductive success of the endangered endemic flora.
10.2307/1943074|Body size is known to play a critical role in determining patterns of prey selection. In this study, we examined the diets of pumpkinseed sunfish (Lepomis gibbosus) from three Michigan lakes. Pumpkinseeds have highly developed pharyngeal jaws specialized for crushing gastropods, and in our study lakes gastropods consistently contributed >80% of the prey mass in pumpkinseed diets. However, the average dietary composition and prey selection among snail taxa and size classes varied considerably among dates and sites. We hypothesized that this variation was influenced by changes in the size structure of the snail community. We used laboratory studies to quantify the effect of snail (and fish) size on three important components of the predator-prey interaction: encounter rates, attack probabilities, and capture successes. We then used these laboratory data to predict prey selection observed in the field. For most of our field situations, a simple model based on size-specific encouter rates only) explained a large percent (71%) of the observed variation in prey selection. However, in those cases where some of the snails were resistant to predation, due to crushing resistance or gape limitation, this simple model was a very poor predictor of prey selection. A more complex model (based on encounter rates and size refuges) successfully explained 46% of the variance in these cases where snails were relatively invulnerable. Finally, we compared estimates of attack probabilities with predictions from optimal foraging theory and found qualitative agreement in that fish ignored prey of low profitabilities and became more selective as the quality of the environment improved. however, the incorporation of variable attack probabilities into the foraging model resolved only a small part of the observed residual variation in selectivities because snails with low profitabilities were already underrepresented in the diet due to their low encounter rates or capture successes. This study demonstrates that predator-prey interactions in size-structured populations can create apparently complex variation in prey selection, but that this variation can be largely understood within a framework that simultaneously considers the dynamics of prey size distributions and how components of the foraging interaction scale with body size of the predator and prey.
10.2307/1942524|Factors affecting water and nutrient outflow beyond the rooting zone were studied during a 3-yr period, using data from eight contrasting stands of lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta ssp. latifolia) forest in southeastern Wyoming and the output of a hydrologic simulation model (H2OTRANS) based on tree physiology. Nutrient outflow during a specific time period was estimated by multiplying simulated water outflow times element concentrations in the soil solution, the latter determined from samples collected periodically near the bottom of the rooting zone. Estimates of actual evapotranspiration (ET) for the period from early spring to late fall ranged from 21 to 53 cm, which was 33-95% (x = 73%) of total annual precipitation. For all stands and years, transpiration accounted for 50-61% of ET, and 9-44% of the transpiration occurred during the spring drainage period (vernal transpiration, VT). Estimated VT and outflow varied considerably among the stands, with VT accounting for 4-20% of the snow water. Outflow occurred only during the snow melt period and accounted for 0-80% of the snow water. Snow water equivalent varied annually by 300% or more. Nutrient outflow from the different stands also varied greatly. Ratios between simulated annual outflow and atmospheric inputs (bulk precipitation) were consistently >1.0 for Ca, Na, and Mg; were consistently <1.0 for N; and ranged from 0.3 to 2.0 for P and from 0.2 to 3.3 for K. Much of the variability in water and nutrient outflow can be attributed to the degree of biotic control, with water outflow affected by a different combination of factors than nutrient outflow. H2OTRANS was used to simulate the effects on outflow of different snow water equivalents and different total leaf areas. One result of the simulations was that nitrogen appears to be retained even at the highest levels of water outflow. Another was that increases in water outflow following reduction in leaf area were proportional to the leaf area removed. The results indicate that stands differing in site or habitat type experience different rates of water and element losses at different times during the snow melt season, and contribute differentially to streamwater quality and hydrograph shape. Factors affecting outflow are discussed in the context of successional trends, common perturbations including timber harvest, and hypotheses pertaining to nutrient conservation in terrestrial ecosystems. Nutrient retention in the snow-dominated lodgepole pine ecosystem appears to be primarily dependent on evergreen leaf area, duration of the VT period, and high carbon/nutrient ratios of the forest floor. Net losses of limiting nutrients probably occur primarily in pulses after abiotic perturbations such as fire.
10.2307/2657238|This paper integrates long-term descriptive and experimental studies of the effects of ocean climate on inter- and intraspecific competition, as expressed by recruitment, density, survivorship, growth, and reproduction of the most conspicuous kelp species in the Point Loma kelp forest community off San Diego, California, USA. The species included Macrocystis pyrifera, with a floating canopy; Pterygophora californica and Eisenia arborea, which rely on stipes to support their canopy; Laminaria farlowii, with a prostrate canopy; and a speciose red algal turf. To evaluate the roles of large-scale oceanographic processes on biological processes across important depth gradients, the study was carried out over nine years during a cold-water, nutrient-rich La Nina event (1988-1989) and a warm-water, nutrient-stressed El Nino period (1992-1994), over a depth range of 8-23 m. This depth range encompassed strong physical gradients involving factors that are critical for kelp growth, including bottom temperatures (correlated with nutrients) and light levels. To examine interactions among these kelps, we established clearings across the depth gradient and then manipulated Macrocystis recruit densities. The demographic responses offer an understanding of the "fundamental" vs. "realized" niches of these species. Evaluating these patterns, as they are influenced by inter- and intraspecific competition, offers insights into the "realized niches" of the kelps. With the exception of some understory effects on Macrocystis recruitment and some evidence of intraspecific competition during the nutrient-rich La Nina conditions, we found little influence of competitive effects on Macrocystis. The response of Pterygophora to manipulations and disturbances suggests light-limited recruitment, and competition with Macrocystis was exhibited via reduced growth and reproduction, but not survivorship. No nutrient stress was observed in Pterygophora reproduction. Eisenia recruitment is rare, but once established, juveniles had very good survivorship, with growth and reproduction reduced by depth; the Macrocystis treatment was more important than depth, suggesting the importance of light to Eisenia recruitment and growth. In general, Macrocystis had massive effects on Laminaria growth and reproduction, the strength varying with depth. In particular, there were very strong effects of competition with Macrocystis during the nutrient-rich La Nina period when Macrocystis had a dense surface canopy. In addition to the Macrocystis effects, there were some significant Pterygophora effects on Laminaria growth during El Nino. The strongest biological definition of realized niches occurred during the nutrient-rich La Nina period, especially in shallow depths. One of the most important conclusions of this paper is the appreciation of the importance of scaling in time to include oceanographic climate. There are many seasonal patterns, but the interannual scales that encompass El Ninos and La Ninas, and ultimately the interdecadal-scale oceanographic regime shifts that affect the intensity of canopy competition with Macrocystis, are critical for this system because surface-water nutrients have pervasive long-term effects on the other kelps. Small-scale patterns are driven by local processes (competition, disturbance, dispersal, etc.) that potentially are important at larger scales; however, our most lasting effects result from very large-scale, low-frequency episodic changes in nutrients, with cascading competitive consequences to the other algal populations in the community.
27646038|We used strong inference with Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) to assess the processes capable of explaining long-term (19841995) variation in the per capita rate of change of mottled sculpin (Cottus bairdi) populations in the Coweeta Creek drainage (USA). We sampled two fourth- and one fifth-order sites (BCA [uppermost], BCB, and CC [lowermost]) along a downstream gradient, and the study encompassed extensive flow variation. Physical habitat availability varied significantly both within and among the sites. Sculpin densities in all sites were highly stable (coefficients of variation = 0.230.41) and sampling variability was low (coefficients of variation = 0.110.15). Population stability was positively associated with habitat stability, and the only significant correlations of population parameters among sites involved juveniles. Sculpin densities were significantly higher in BCB than in CC. The data suggest that, despite their proximity, the dynamics of populations within the sites are being determined by small-scale (i.e., 3050 m) rather than broad-scale spatial processes. Both AIC and Dennis and Taper analyses indicated that simple density dependence had the greatest ability to explain variation in r for all life-history classes in all sites (AIC, seven of nine cases; Dennis and Taper, nine of nine cases). Multiprocess models had little explanatory power. When adults were removed from two sites, juvenile sculpin shifted into microhabitats formerly occupied by adults. No shifts occurred in control sites. Consequently, it is likely that the patterns of density dependence observed in all three sites were a consequence of intraspecific competition for space. Our findings argue for a multitiered approach to the study of population variation, one that encompasses long-term monitoring, spatial variation, and experimental testing of potential mechanisms.
23047558|Historical records provide valuable information on the prior conditions of ecological systems and species distribution, especially in the context of growing environmental change. However, historical records may have associated bias and error because their original purpose may not have been for scientific use. The Public Land Survey (PLS) of the U.S. General Land Office (GLO) conducted from the late 1700s to the early 1900s has been widely used to characterize historical vegetation in the United States prior to major Euro-American settlements. Studies have shown that variability and bias exist in the data. However, these studies have not typically encompassed a region large enough to adequately assess this variability across diverse landscapes, nor attempted to distinguish potential ecological significance from statistical differences. Here we do this by analyzing variability in PLS data across all of northern Wisconsin, USA, a 75 000-km 2 landscape. We found ecologically significant differences among survey point types for tree species, size, and the distance to survey points. Both corner and line trees show some level of bias for species and size, but corner trees are likely the best sample. Although statistical tests show significant differences in species composition, tree size, and distance by tree sequence and location, the differences in species composition and tree size are not ecologically significant. The species differences are probably caused by fine-scale variability in the forest communities. The value of the PLS data remains high; choice of spatial extent, methods of analyses, and bias significance need to be evaluated according to variables of interest and project purpose.
10.2307/2657180|Postdispersal fate of seeds from Ocotea endresiana (Lauraceae), a bird-dispersed Neotropical montane tree, was studied in Costa Rica to determine the influence of seed dispersers, seed predators, and microhabitat characteristics on seedling recruitment. Particular emphasis was placed on finding naturally dispersed seeds in order to study the link between dispersal and postdispersal fate of seeds. Four species of birds (Emerald Toucanet, Aulacorhynchus prasinus; Resplendent Quetzal, Pharomachrus mocinno; Three-wattled Bellbird, Procnias tricarunculata; and Mountain Robin, Turdus plebejus) dispersed the seeds by regurgitation, and one species (Black Guan, Chamaepetes unicolor), by defecation. Most seeds (80%) were dispersed within 25 m of parent trees and under high (>92%) canopy cover. Bellbirds deposited 52% of the seeds they dispersed under habitual song perches in standing dead trees on the edges of treefall gaps >25 m from parent trees. In contrast, the other four species dispersed only 6% of the seeds they dispersed >25 m from parent trees, and <3% of the seeds were dispersed to gaps. Thus, male bellbirds provided predictable, nonrandom dispersal to a different microhabitat than the other four species. Seed predation, germination, and one-year seedling survival were assessed for naturally dispersed seeds and for seeds placed at randomly located sites. Seed predation during the first 12 mo after dispersal was extremely high (99.7%). At least 50% of seed removal was attributable to small rodents, such as Peromyscus mexicanus, with no evidence of scatter-hoarding or secondary dispersal. Seeds dispersed >20 m from parent trees were removed more slowly than seeds directly under the crown, but over the course of the fruiting season seed predation approached 100%, throughout the study site. Seed predation did not differ between gaps and forest understory. Germination of seeds protected from mammals was high (70-90%), regardless of microhabitat or seed size. Seeds regurgitated by birds and seeds removed from fruits by hand germinated equally well (98%), but seeds in intact fruits did not germinate. Seeds defecated by guans and regurgitated by other species in the field had similar germination success. Thus, dispersal by birds is important for removal of pulp but does not otherwise affect germination. Seedlings were taller in gaps (<90% canopy cover) than in closed-canopy forest (>90% cover). Fungal pathogens killed fewer seedlings in gaps than in understory, while other causes of seedling mortality were similar among microhabitats. Consequently, bellbirds, the most likely species to disperse seeds to gaps, had a disproportionate influence on seedling recruitment. Nevertheless, the absolute number of seedlings was higher in closed canopy forest, because the great majority of seeds (85%) landed there. The overall pattern of recruitment, averaged among trees, had a large peak corresponding with bellbird song perches in gaps, as well as a smaller peak near the parent tree corresponding with the seeds dispersed by other species. The relative height of these peaks is opposite that of the original pattern of dispersal. Frugivorous birds that use habitual perches may have disproportionate effects on plant recruitment. To test this idea further, it is necessary to study each stage of the recruitment process, including seed dispersal, postdispersal seed survival, and seedling survival.
10.2307/1942485|Vegetation change during the past 25 000 years in and near the present Mixed Mesophytic Forest Region is inferred from pollen and plant macrofossil analyses of sediment cores from two sites on the eastern Highland Rim of Middle Tennessee, USA. Anderson Pond, in White County, dates from 25 000 radiocarbon years BP to present. During the Farmdalian Interstadial, 25 000 yr BP, northern Diploxylon pines, spruce, and deciduous trees were present at Anderson Pond, indicating a cool, moist climate. From 19 000 to 16 300 yr BP, during the Late Wisconsin glacial maximum, boreal taxa of jack pine, spruce, and fir were dominant. Late-glacial climatic amelioration began in Middle Tennessee at about 16 300 yr BP, with replacement of jack pine-spruce-fir forest by deciduous forest. Ash, ironwood, hickory, birch, butternut, willow, and elm increased in importance first, followed by beech and sugar maple. Mixed mesophytic forest taxa were most abundant during the early Holocene, between 12 500 and 8000 yr BP. A warming and drying trend between 8000 and 5000 yr BP is reflected by high influx values for pollen of oak, ash, hickory, swamp alder, and buttonbush, and by diminishing importance of mixed mesophytic forest taxa. Mingo Pond, Franklin County, Tennessee, contains a pollen record estimated to extend back to 14 000 yr BP. Mixed mesophytic forest taxa were abundantly represented at Mingo Pond during the late glacial and early Holocene, along with pollen representing prairie vegetation. Oak and sweetgum dominated the mid- and late Holocene record from Mingo Pond. Stratigraphic sites from the Missouri Ozarks to the Atlantic Coastal Plain date the full glacial in the southeastern United States between 23 000 and 16 500 yr BP. During the glacial maximum, boreal-like coniferous forests of spruce, jack pine, and fir extended southward to 34@?N latitude. Mesic deciduous forest persisted through the full glacial at 35@?N at Nonconnah Creek near Memphis. Full-glacial refuges for deciduous forest species may have also existed in south-facing gorges of the Cumberland Plateau and southern Appalachian Mountains in addition to bluffs along major streams in the southeastern United States. During the late glacial, beginning about 16 500 yr BP, boreal-like coniferous forest was replaced in midlatitudes (34@? to 37@?N) by cool-temperate coniferous-deciduous forest. In the early Holocene, between 12 500 and 8000 yr BP, cool-temperate mixed mesophytic forest prevailed between 34@? and 37@?N. The Mixed Mesophytic Forest Region assumed its present distribution in the mid-Holocene.
10.2307/2657216|A simple food chain model of community structure was used to evaluate the roles of bottom-up and top-down factors in a rocky intertidal community. Predictions of the model were modified to incorporate known variation in the strength of species interactions and nutrient delivery rates along a wave-exposure gradient. To test the predictions of the model, I manipulated nutrients and consumers in tide pools chiseled into mudstone benches at two sites that varied in degree of wave exposure. The pools were located in the mid-intertidal zone between 1 and 1.5 m above mean lower low water (MLLW), at Boiler Bay, Oregon, USA. The focal organisms were the benthic macroalgae and mobile invertebrate herbivores that dominate naturally occurring tide pools at this site. I manipulated nutrient levels and the abundance of herbivores in these tide pools in a fully factorial randomized block design replicated six times at a wave-exposed and a wave-protected site. The experiment was maintained for two years (1994-1996). The abundances of herbivores and macroalgae were monitored in the spring, summer, and fall of each year. I measured primary productivity in the tide pools during the summer. Herbivores had a negative impact on algal abundance. The total effect of herbivory, and the efficiency of herbivores per se, on algal abundance was lower at the wave-exposed site. Nutrient additions had a positive effect on algal abundance, but this effect was reduced at the wave-exposed site. Nutrients also appeared to increase algal productivity, but only where herbivore abundance was low. Algal abundance patterns were generally consistent with model predictions for bottom-up, top-down, and hydrodynamic effects. In contrast to model predictions, herbivore abundance did not respond to the nutrient treatment. The decoupling of consumers from resource dynamics is interpreted to be the result of an herbivore preference for noncalcified seaweeds with higher potential growth rates. In wave-protected pools, where nutrients were most limiting and consumers were most efficient, seaweeds with the potential to translate elevated nutrient levels into growth had no effective refuge from consumers. The difference in scale between resource patches (tide pools) and the foraging range of the dominant herbivore, Tegula funebralis, may have augmented the ability of this herbivore to virtually exclude fleshy seaweeds from wave-protected pools. Expanding the domain of applicability of food chain models requires the incorporation of consumer preferences, variation in plant growth rates, environmental gradients, and differences in the relative scales of resource patches and foraging ranges of consumers.
43187888|Patterns of environmental spatial structure lie at the heart of the most fundamental and familiar patterns of diversity on Earth. Antarctica contains some of the strongest environmental gradients on the planet and therefore provides an ideal study ground to test hypotheses on the relevance of environmental variability for biodiversity. To answer the pivotal question, "How does spatial variation in physical and biological environmental properties across the Antarctic drive biodiversity?" we have synthesized current knowledge on environmental variability across terrestrial, freshwater, and marine Antarctic biomes and related this to the observed biotic patterns. The most important physical driver of Antarctic terrestrial communities is the availability of liquid water, itself driven by solar irradiance intensity. Patterns of biota distribution are further strongly influenced by the historical development of any given location or region, and by geographical barriers. In freshwater ecosystems, free water is also crucial, with further important influences from salinity, nutrient availability, oxygenation, and characteristics of ice cover and extent. In the marine biome there does not appear to be one major driving force, with the exception of the oceanographic boundary of the Polar Front. At smaller spatial scales, ice cover, ice scour, and salinity gradients are clearly important determinants of diversity at habitat and community level. Stochastic and extreme events remain an important driving force in all environments, particularly in the context of local extinction and colonization or recolonization, as well as that of temporal environmental variability. Our synthesis demonstrates that the Antarctic continent and surrounding oceans provide an ideal study ground to develop new biogeographical models, including life history and physiological traits, and to address questions regarding biological responses to environmental variability and change.
23047054|A recent area of progress in nutritional ecology is a growing awareness that nutritional phenotypes are best understood in a multidimensional context, where foraging is viewed as a process of balancing the intake and use of multiple nutrients to satisfy complex and dynamic nutrient needs. Numerous laboratory studies have shown that this view can yield novel insights into unresolved questions and provide a framework for generating new hypotheses. By contrast, progress with this multidimensional view has been slow in the arena of ultimate interest to functional biologists, the field. One reason for this is that the Geometric Framework for nutrition that has been extensively used in laboratory experiments focuses on amounts of nutrients (e.g., required, eaten, or retained), and such data are typically very difficult or impossible to collect for most free-ranging animals. Further, many problems in field-based nutritional ecology involve comparisons of mixtures that are expressed as proportions (e.g., food, diet, body, or fecal compositions), rather than absolute amounts. As yet, however, no geometric framework has been established in nutritional ecology for this. Here I recommend an approach for the geometric analysis of nutritional mixtures, and illustrate its use in a variety of contexts by reanalyzing published data. Despite its simplicity, this approach holds considerable promise for furthering the study of field-based nutritional ecology.
27646139|The purpose of this work is to understand the nature of growthclimate relationships for Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) across the climatic dimensions of its niche. We used a combination of biophysically informed sampling (to identify sample sites) and dendroclimatology (to identify growthclimate relationships) along a climate gradient in northwestern United States mountain ecosystems from the western Olympic Peninsula, Washington to the eastern Rocky Mountain Front, Montana. We used a multi-scale sampling strategy that accounted for continentality, physiography, and topography as non-climatic factors that could influence climate and alter tree growth. We developed a network of 124 Douglas-fir tree-ring chronologies and explored growthclimate correlations across the sampled gradients. We considered two different spatial scales of monthly and seasonal climate variables as potential controlling factors on tree growth. Annual radial growth in 6065% of the plots across the region is significantly correlated with precipitation, drought, or water balance during the late summer prior to growth and the early summer the year of growth. In a few plots, growth is positively correlated with cool-season temperature or negatively correlated with snowpack. Water availability is therefore more commonly limiting to Douglas-fir growth than energy limitations on growing season length. The first principal component derived from the chronologies is significantly correlated with independent drought reconstructions. The sensitivity of Douglas-fir to summer water balance deficit (potential evapotranspiration minus actual evapotranspiration) indicates that increases in April to September temperature without increases in summer precipitation or soil moisture reserves are likely to cause decreases in growth over much of the sampled area, especially east of the Cascade crest. In contrast, Douglas-fir may exhibit growth increases at some higher elevation sites where seasonal photosynthesis is currently limited by growing-season length or low growing-season temperature. Life-history processes such as establishment, growth, and mortality are precursors to changes in biogeography, and measurements of climate effects on those processes can provide early indications of climate-change effects on ecosystems.
10.2307/1942436|A general theory of distribution suggests that the microhabitat, habitat, and geographic distribution of Psephenus herricki is related to water turbulence. The different life stages typically occur in stream riffles. Adults are found in riffles because they are @'attracted@' to the moist wave-splashed rocks that stick out of the water. These same rocks provide a mating site and give the female access to the subsurface materials for oviposition. The microdistribution of eggs is a function of the distribution of wave-splashed rocks during oviposition and female oviposition behavior. Oviposition initially accounts for the large numbers of larvae in riffles, but larvae live about 2 years giving them sufficient time to disperse into the runs and pools. Dispersion, however, is negligible due to a thigmokinesis that inhibits vagility when they are wedged in the interstitial spaces of the substrate. This and the distribution of algae on rocks seems to determine the microdistribution of larvae. Riffles contain an abundance of these interstitial crevices due to sorting by stream turbulence. Turbulence and physiography, governing the geographic distribution of riffles, directly influence the geographic distribution of the species.
10.2307/2937343|Although predispersal seed predation by insects is common, no test exists of its effect on plant recruitment. This study examines seed predation in the population dynamics of a native, temperate shrub, Haplopappus squarrosus H. and A. (Asteraceae), over an elevational gradient in the coastal sage scrub vegetation of San Diego County, California USA. Frequency and abundance of H. squarrosus increase from coast to mountains. Expected abundance, based on flowers initiated, was highest at the coast and lowest in the interior, the opposite of the observed adult plant distribution. Overall flower and seed predation by insects was high (44-73%) and was greatest at the coast. Insect exclusion experiments at sites along the gradient had three main results. (1) Seedling recruitment was proportional to the number of viable seeds after seed predation. The exclusion plots had significantly higher numbers of seedlings established at all sites than did control plots; the greatest increase was at the coast. (2) Seedling survivorship was independent of both seedling and adult densities. (3) Juvenile recruitment was proportional to seedling establishment. Predation by insects prior to release of seeds played a critical role in the population recruitment of H. squarrosus within and among sites along the gradient. Survivorship of established plants, in addition, was as high at the coast as it was in the interior. These results suggest that indigenous insect seed predators can be a major force controlling the dynamics of a native plant species over its natural distributional range.
10.2307/1942317|An analysis is made of energy exchange between Belding ground squirrels (Citellus beldingi beldingi) and the microhabitats which they occupy during their annual summer period of activity. A natural population was observed, and the microclimates of six different types of microhabitats which the squirrels typically occupied are quantitatively described. Methods are derived for calculating the average radiation absorbed by a geometric model which is used to represent the squirrel at different orientations to the sun. The average absorbed radiation is plotted as a function of air temperature in climate diagrams that describe the thermal conditions occurring hourly in the microhabitats on clear, partly cloudy, and stormy days. The physiological and physical properties of the animals which affect energy exchange were measured in an open-flow metabolic apparatus. Body temperature, surface temperature, metabolic rate rate of evaporative water loss, and conductance are expressed as functions of effective ambient temperature. The capabilities of the squirrels for maintaining energy balance under extreme combinations of air temperature, absorbed radiation, and wind speed were calculated from physiological data by using an energy-budget equation, and are expressed on climate diagrams similar to those describing the thermal environments of the microhabitats. By comparing a climate diagram for a microhabitat with that for a squirrel, one can determine whether or not the squirrel is capable of maintaining thermal equilibrium in that microhabitat during any hour of the day. The net gain or loss of energy can be calculated from the climate diagrams for an animal in an environment in which it cannot maintain thermal equilibrium. The rate of change in body temperature resulting from energy imbalance is discussed in terms of its significance for animals occupying thermally unsuitable habitats. A method is proposed for comparing the nearly blackbody radiation environment of a metabolic chamber to complex natural thermal environments. With this technique it is possible to use laboratory data taken for a species at different blackbody ambient temperatures to estimate the physiological responses of that species to any natural environment where the wind speed, air temperature, and absorbed radiation are known.
10.2307/2937314|Watershed 2 of the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest was experimentally deforested in the winter of 1965-1966, and subsequent plant regeneration was suppressed by herbicide application until the 1969 growing season. Changes in species structure, plant abundance, aboveground primary productivity and biomass, and aboveground nutrient pools were recorded on 70 permanent plots distributed across the watershed during 1, 2, 3, 5, 11, and 20 yr of subsequent succession. Species richness increased rapidly over time but equitability and the Shannon-Wiener diversity index declined with succession. Plant densities of herb, shrub, sapling, and tree strata increased, then decreased, in successive waves as the vegetation increased in height. Basal area (stems >5.1 cm dbh) initially increased exponentially, then linearly after the 5th yr to attain a total of 18.7 m^2/ha by the 20th yr. Primary productivity also increased exponentially at first, but then increased linearly through the 20th yr at which time annual aboveground primary productivity was 20 Mg/ha. Aboveground biomass increased linearly after the 5th yr until by the 20th yr it was 52 Mg/ha, 38% of the reference forest biomass. Aboveground nutrient pools of some elements accumulated faster than biomass by the 20th yr when calculated as percentages of the 55-yr-old reference forest pools and biomass. These included: potassium--52%, phosphorus--44%, magnesium--42%. Other accumulated more slowly than biomass: sulfur--32%, and nitrogen and calcium each--29%. While recovery rate on Watershed 2 was delayed in the first decade of regrowth, and composition was somewhat altered because of the 3-yr suppression, this forest nevertheless displayed a vigorous capacity for regeneration after suppression ceased.
27646128|The relative importance of genetic, demographic, environmental, and catastrophic processes that maintain population bottlenecks has received little consideration. We evaluate the role of these factors in maintaining the Puerto Rican Parrot (Amazona vittata) in a prolonged bottleneck from 1973 through 2000 despite intensive conservation efforts. We first conduct a risk analysis, then examine evidence for the importance of specific processes maintaining the bottleneck using the multiple competing hypotheses approach, and finally integrate these results through a sensitivity analysis of a demographic model using life-stage simulation analysis (LSA) to determine the relative importance of genetic, demographic, environmental, and catastrophic processes on population growth. Annual population growth has been slow and variable (1.0  5.2 parrots per year, or an average  = 1.05  0.19) from 16 parrots (1973) to a high of 4042 birds (19971998). A risk analysis based on population prediction intervals (PPI) indicates great risk and large uncertainty, with a range of 2283 birds in the 90% PPI only five years into the future. Four primary factors (reduced hatching success due to inbreeding, failure of adults to nest, nest failure due to nongenetic causes, and reduced survival of adults and juveniles) were responsible for maintaining the bottleneck. Egg-hatchability rates were low (70.6% per egg and 76.8% per pair), and hatchability increased after mate changes, suggesting inbreeding effects. Only an average of 34% of the population nested annually, which was well below the percentage of adults that should have reached an age of first breeding (4156%). This chronic failure to nest appears to have been caused primarily by environmental and/or behavioral factors, and not by nest-site scarcity or a skewed sex ratio. Nest failure rates from nongenetic causes (i.e., predation, parasitism, and wet cavities) were low (29%) due to active management (protecting nests and fostering captive young into wild nests), diminishing the importance of nest failure as a limiting factor. Annual survival has been periodically reduced by catastrophes (hurricanes), which have greatly constrained population growth, but survival rates were high under non-catastrophic conditions. Although the importance of factors maintaining the Puerto Rican Parrot bottleneck varied throughout the 30-year period of study, we determined their long-term influence using LSA simulations to correlate variation in demographic rates with variation in population growth (). The bottleneck appears to have been maintained primarily by periodic catastrophes (hurricanes) that reduced adult survival, and secondarily by environmental and/or behavioral factors that resulted in a failure of many adults to nest. The influence of inbreeding through reduced hatching success played a much less significant role, even when additional effects of inbreeding on the production and mortality of young were incorporated into the LSA. Management actions needed to speed recovery include (1) continued nest guarding to minimize the effects of nest failure due to nongenetic causes; (2) creating a second population at another location on the islanda process that was recently initiatedto reduce the chance that hurricane strikes will cause extinction; and (3) determining the causes of the low percentage of breeders in the population and ameliorating them, which would have a large impact on population growth.
10.2307/2937064|Throughout western North America, riparian ecosystem function has been transformed by anthropogenic influences on riverine environments. Modified flood frequency, duration, or intensity; depressed floodplain water tables; and increased alluvium salinity have contributed to change in riparian forest communities formerly dominated by Populus fremontii and Salix gooddingii. The invasion of the naturalized arborescent shrub, Tamarix ramosissima, potentially alters competitive hierarchies and disturbance regimes in these riparian ecosystems. We evaluated the structure and function of two southwestern riparian communities that differed in the degree of streamflow perturbation to which they had been subjected: the highly regulated lower Colorado River and the less tightly regulated Bill Williams River. Ordination analyses provided evidence that these riparian communities are structured along gradients relating to moisture, salinity, disturbance from fire, and community maturity, with Colorado River sites being more xeric and saline than those on the Bill Williams River. Foliar elemental analyses revealed high sodium concentrations in Tamarix (Na:K ratio = 1.87) and in the native shrub Tessaria sericea (Na:K = 1.56). Evaluation of tissue water relations parameters showed that Tamarix had lower osmotic potentials than sympatric woody taxa, helping to confirm that Tamarix is halophytic and probably capable of greater osmotic adjustment than native species. Carbon isotopic discrimination (@D) provided evidence for higher water use efficiency in Tamaris than in Populus, Salix, and Tessaria. Tamarix @D averaged over 1@% less than that of the other riparian taxa. Experimental removal of Tamarix from stands where Salix was codominant resulted in growth augmentation, less negative water potentials, and higher leaf conductance in Salix, all providing evidence of interspecific competition. The persistence of Salix, but not Populus, on the Colorado River appears to be due to greater water- and salinity stress tolerance in Salix than in Populus. A preponderance of senescent Populus along the Colorado River is an indication that this formerly dominant species is effectively approaching local extinction in parts of this ecosystem.
41739384|Qualitative network analyses provide a broad range of advantages for formulating ideas and testing understanding of ecosystem function, for exploring feedback dynamics, and for making qualitative predictions in cases where data are limited. They have been applied to a wide range of ecological questions, including exploration of the implications of uncertainty about fundamental system structure. However, we argue that questions regarding model uncertainty in qualitative network analyses have been under-explored, and that there is a need for a coherent framework for evaluating uncertainty. To address this issue, we have developed a Bayesian framework for interpreting uncertainty that can be applied when comparing and evaluating the characteristics and behavior of alternative model formulations. Specifically, we recognize that results from previously developed simulation approaches to qualitative modeling can be interpreted as marginal likelihoods that translate to Bayes factors for model comparison. We then test and extend our Bayesian interpretation of qualitative model results to address comparisons both between and within alternative models. With the use of examples, we demonstrate how our Bayesian framework for interpretation can improve the application of qualitative modeling for addressing uncertainty about the structure and function of ecological networks.
27646141|Life-history theory suggests that trade-offs exist between fitness components, with organisms balancing investment in reproduction against survival and future reproduction. This study examined the influence of stress on physiological trade-offs in the dominant rocky intertidal mussel Mytilus californianus on the central Oregon coast, USA. The intertidal zone is a highly heterogeneous thermal environment that could lead to intrapopulation variation in stress responses. Stress increases along a vertical gradient, with higher physical stress occurring in the higher intertidal zone, both due to reduced feeding time and longer exposure to aerial conditions. Reproduction and carotenoid content were compared in mussels from the low and high vertical edges of the mussel bed. High-edge mussels invested less relative energy in reproduction and also spawned all of their gametes in the early summer, whereas low-edge mussels continuously spawned small batches of gametes throughout the year. High-edge mussels accumulated high concentrations of carotenoid pigments into their gonadal tissues, potentially to protect gametes from damaging oxidative stress experienced during aerial exposure. A reciprocal transplant experiment revealed plastic responses in growth and reproduction to increased stress. In contrast, carotenoid content did not increase in response to stress, suggesting that carotenoids may not change rapidly or may not be easily lost or gained. Our results indicate that mussels exhibit physiological trade-offs and, under increased stress predicted from climate change scenarios, may allocate energy away from reproduction toward costly physiological defenses.
10.2307/3100054|Established plants may facilitate the regeneration of closely related seedlings if they increase populations of mutualistic symbionts that would otherwise be limiting. In this study we examined the influence of ectomycorrhizal and vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) trees on Quercus rubra seedlings to determine how trees influence mycorrhizal infection, nutrient uptake, and growth of seedlings. In two related experiments, we planted Q. rubra acorns adjacent to stump sprouts of Q. montana (=Near-Quercus) and Acer rubrum (=Near-Acer), and, in the second experiment, near Quercus spp. stumps that had not resprouted (=Near-Dead-Quercus). Congeneric Quercus were used to prevent root grafting; using stump sprouts minimized aboveground differences between treatments by limiting canopy size. In both experiments, Near-Quercus seedlings were infected by ectomycorrhizal fungi to a significantly greater extent than Near-Acer or Near-Dead-Quercus seedlings. Near-Quercus seedlings were also infected by a different and more diverse community of ectomycorrhizal fungi. Cenococcum geophilum, the only ectomycorrhizal fungus more abundant on Near-Acer seedlings than on Near-Quercus seedlings, appears to be relatively ineffective at increasing seedling nutrient uptake. Near-Quercus seedlings had greater concentrations and contents of N and P than other seedlings in both experiments. In the first experiment, Near-Quercus seedlings had greater growth than Near-Acer seedlings, although it was not clear if this represented beneficial influences of Q. montana, or an undetermined negative influence of A. rubrum. No significant growth responses were found in the second experiment; severe drought may have prevented the expression of growth potential. The results demonstrate indirect facilitation of seedlings by established congeneric trees through increased seedling ectomycorrhizal infection.
10.2307/2657226|Changes in the abundance of macroinvertebrate species documented in a rocky intertidal community between surveys in 1931-1933 and 1993-1996 are consistent with the predicted effects of recent climate warming. We resampled 57 0.84-m
10.2307/2657243|The use of metapopulation models in conservation biology is growing exponentially, but there is a need for empirical studies that support theoretical approaches, especially for species with large and long-lived individuals. In this paper we explore the viability and dynamics of a real metapopulation of an endangered mammal by combining field work and modeling in order to support conservation decisions and evaluate theoretical approaches. The Iberian lynx (Lynx pardinus), considered the most vulnerable felid in the world, is restricted to the Iberian Peninsula in southwestern Europe. The persistence of the species is handicapped by the high fragmentation of its populations. Fewer than 1000 individuals are distributed in nine isolated populations, each of them also fragmented but with their patches connected by dispersers, in what could be called metapopulations. One of these metapopulations, including 60 individuals, inhabits the Donana National Park (DNP) and its surroundings. Demographic and behavioral data gathered over one decade for this lynx population were employed to develop a spatially realistic structured model with density-dependent fecundity and migration, including demographic and environmental stochasticity. Such a model is used to identify the demographic features that determine the dynamics of this population and to predict its risk of decline under a set of alternative assumptions. A hypothetical lynx metapopulation with values of the parameters such as those observed in Donana, but without stochastic events, could sustain itself over time. Results of this deterministic model show how females occupy all the potential breeding territories, while males are below the carrying capacity. The metapopulation has a source-sink structure, with the sources internal and the sinks external to the national park. Sinks result from reduced survival rather than reduced fecundity, as generally assumed. High mortality in sink patches is deterministic, deriving both from within-patch risks and from factors related to the landscape matrix among patches. The survival rate of adults with territories in the sources was the most sensitive parameter, leading the dynamics of the metapopulation. When we include demographic stochasticity in the model, the population becomes extinct 22% of the time within 100 yr, and this value increases to 33.8% when environmental stochasticity is also considered. Most of the metapopulation extinctions occurred because of the disappearance of males due to sex differences in demographic parameters related to behavioral aspects (e.g., dispersal rate). Different scenarios were simulated as modifications affecting either within- or between-patch dynamics. Changes in the carrying capacity of source and sink patches would have very different consequences in terms of metapopulation persistence: one breeding territory increase in the largest source reduces metapopulation extinction risk from 33.8 to 17.2% in 100 yr, while an increase of three territories in the largest sink does not modify the extinction risk. In this sense, results suggest that the best management strategy for conservation should be restoring habitat at the source patches and reducing mortality at the sinks. The results of our models emphasize the need for empirical studies to characterize metapopulations in nature and distinguish between such terms as source-sink, mainland-island, nonequilibrium, or even "refuge" metapopulations.
23206683|We describe an in situ fossil flora of Late Cretaceous age (73 Ma [mega-annum or million years]) from Big Cedar Ridge in central Wyoming, USA, which we sampled using a modified line-intercept method to quantify the relative abundances of 122 taxa at 100 sites across 4 km of exposed sedimentary deposits. We also measured three physical variables at each site: paleotopographic level, grain size, and total organic content. Paleoenvironmental conditions and paleofloral composition at Big Cedar Ridge covary strongly and are highly heterogeneous on small spatial scales. The reconstructed vegetation has some similarities with extant topogenous fens, but also important differences. Non-monocot angiosperms were abundant only on wet, mineral substrates that had been disturbed shortly before preservation, consistent with the weedy life histories that are inferred for their Early Cretaceous ancestors. Many non-monocot angiosperms grew in small, dispersed populations, consistent with the hypothesis that they were biotically pollinated. Overall, non-monocot angiosperm abundance was low compared with many modern wetlands. A single species of coryphoid palm was the dominant on moist, stable, moderately organic-rich sites, a pattern seen in some subtropical to tropical wetlands in the present day. Fern thickets at Big Cedar Ridge occupied highly organic, possibly low-nutrient substrates, and were dominated by Dipteridaceae, Gleicheniaceae, Schizaeaceae, and Matoniaceae. The overall high diversity and abundance of pteridophytes is unusual in the context of modern vegetation, regardless of climate zone, and probably represents a late occurrence of pteridophyte-dominated vegetation that was common earlier in the Mesozoic. Plant distributions at Big Cedar Ridge combine aspects of pre-angiosperm and modern vegetation in a way that suggests both niche conservatism and niche evolution on geological time scales.
27806874|The use of structural equation modeling (SEM) is often motivated by its utility for investigating complex networks of relationships, but also because of its promise as a means of representing theoretical concepts using latent variables. In this paper, we discuss characteristics of ecological theory and some of the challenges for proper specification of theoretical ideas in structural equation models (SE models). In our presentation, we describe some of the requirements for classical latent variable models in which observed variables (indicators) are interpreted as the effects of underlying causes. We also describe alternative model specifications in which indicators are interpreted as having causal influences on the theoretical concepts. We suggest that this latter nonclassical specification (which involves another variable typethe composite) will often be appropriate for ecological studies because of the multifaceted nature of our theoretical concepts. In this paper, we employ the use of meta-models to aid the translation of theory into SE models and also to facilitate our ability to relate results back to our theories. We demonstrate our approach by showing how a synthetic theory of grassland biodiversity can be evaluated using SEM and data from a coastal grassland. In this example, the theory focuses on the responses of species richness to abiotic stress and disturbance, both directly and through intervening effects on community biomass. Models examined include both those based on classical forms (where each concept is represented using a single latent variable) and also ones in which the concepts are recognized to be multifaceted and modeled as such. To address the challenge of matching SE models with the conceptual level of our theory, two approaches are illustrated, compositing and aggregation. Both approaches are shown to have merits, with the former being preferable for cases where the multiple facets of a concept have widely differing effects in the system and the latter being preferable where facets act together consistently when influencing other parts of the system. Because ecological theory characteristically deals with concepts that are multifaceted, we expect the methods presented in this paper will be useful for ecologists wishing to use SEM.
4134785| Invertebrate communities inhabiting deep-sea hydrothermal vents undergo substantial succession on time scales of months. Manipulative field experiments assessed the relative roles of environmental state and biotic interactions in determining temporal succession along a spatial gradient in vent fluid flux at three vent sites near 950' N on the East Pacific Rise (2500 m water depth). Species colonization patterns on cubic basalt blocks (10 cm on a side) deployed by the submersible Alvin revealed both positive (facilitation) and negative (inhibition) biological interactions, in the context of established succession theory. Over a series of four cruises from 1994 to 1998, blocks were exposed to colonists for consecutive and continuous intervals in short-term (5 + 8 = 13 mo) and longer-term (8 + 29 = 37 mo) experiments. Colonists grouped into a mobile functional group were less abundant in the continuous interval (13 mo) than in the synchronous pooled-consecutive intervals (5 + 8 mo) of the short-term experiment, indicating that early colonists inhibited subsequent recruitment. Colonists grouped into a sessile functional group exhibited the opposite pattern, indicating facilitation. Similar trends, though not statistically significant, were observed in the longer-term experiment. The character of species interactions varied along a gradient in hydrothermal fluid flux (and inferred productivity), with inhibitory interactions more prominent in zones with high temperatures, productivity, and faunal densities, and facilitative interactions appearing where temperatures, productivity, and densities were low. Analyses of primary succession on introduced basalt blocks suggest that biological interactions during early vent community development strongly modify initial patterns of settlement, even in the absence of sustained temporal change in the vent fluid flux. 
10.2307/1942551|Coral reef herbivores were classified into three functional groups according to criteria describing the frequency and intensity of disturbance to the algal community created by their herbivory. These herbivore groups included: microherbivores, which have small foraging ranges (1-100 cm^2) and a high frequency of grazing any point within their range; the echinoid Diadema antillarum, which has intermediate-size foraging ranges (0.5-1 m^2) and intermediate frequencies of grazing any one area within an individual's range; and herbivorous fishes, with large foraging ranges (up to 0.5 ha) and the lowest grazing frequencies at any one site. Algal communities on experimental coral-settling plates were subjected to treatments designed to detect the effects of grazing by representatives of each functional herbivore group on algal biomass, community structure, and primary productivity in a backreef/reefcrest habitat in St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands. Abundances of microherbivores and herbivorous fishes (mainly juvenile scarids) fluctuated over time, while Diadema antillarum abundance remained relatively constant. Grazing intensity (as measured by the rate of algal biomass removal and algal standing crop under different grazing regimes) was greatest for D. antillarum; grazing by D. antillarum resulted in low-biomass, highly productive algal turfs (O"2 release per unit chlorophyll a per unit time: 11.3-22.4 @mg@?@mg^-^1@?h^-^1). Algal turfs grazed by D. antillarum were dominated by epilithic and endolithic filamentous and crustose species. Grazing by herbivorous fishes led to algal communities with algal turfs of higher biomass than in D. antillarum-grazed treatments; these communities became dominated by a single algal species (Sphacelaria tribuloides). Fish-grazed algal communities had lower biomass-specific productivity rates than algal turfs grazed by D. antillarum (2.4-8.4 @mg@?@mg^-^1@?h^-^1). Microherbivore-grazed and ungrazed treatments had the lowest biomass-specific productivity rates and eventually became dominated by a few macroalgal species. Although algal biomass in sea urchin-grazed treatments was only 25-50% of the biomass values in treatments not grazed by sea urchins, productivity per unit area was not significantly lower in the former treatments, suggesting a positive effect of sea urchin grazing on algal productivity. This positive effect is a result of the reduction of algal self-shading when grazing is intense and/or the input of regenerated nutrients from D. antillarum excretions. Coral reef plant-herbivore interactions are similar to those in terrestrial grassland-herbivore systems. As in many terrestrial systems, plant-herbivore interactions result in higher overall ecosystem primary productivity and apparently facilitate the flow of energy and materials in this case from the highly productive algal turf component to higher levels in the reef trophic web.
10.2307/1942158|The reproductive cycle, energy budget, and relationships between rates and energetics of vitellogenesis, lipid deposition and depletion, and changes in lean carcass tissue were examined in Desmognathus ochrophaeus salamanders from northeastern Ohio. Oviposition begins prior to emergence in mid-April, reaches a peak in mid-May, and continues in greatly reduced frequency into September. Lipids in the carcass and ovarian fat bodies apparently are used for maintenance and vitellogenesis during winter dormancy (mid-October to mid-April) and after emergence in the spring when food reserves are scarce. Carcass lipids, lean carcass tissue, and perhaps fat body lipids are used for maintenance during brooding. A typical female oviposits in mid-May, replaces depleted lipids and lean carcass tissue by late August, and produces intermediate-sized follicles before winter and full-sized follicles during April and early May. Energy ingested, egested, assimilated, and lost through respiration was examined in gravid females, spent females, and males acclimated to four temperature-photoperiod regimes: (1) 5@?C, LD 10:14; (2) 5@?C, LD 14:10; (3) 15@?C, LD 10:14; and (4) 15@?C, LD 14:10. Size, sex, reproductive condition, and temperature significantly influence energetics in D. ochrophaeus. Photoperiod does not affect metabolism significantly at either temperature. There is an inverse exponential relationship between body weight and weight-specific rates of ingestion, egestion, assimilation, and respiration. Gravid females, actively depositing yolk in follicles, show higher O"2 consumption rates than recently spent females and males at 15@?C, but not at 5@?C when yolking rates apparently are reduced. Rates of O"2 consumption are significantly higher at 15@?C than 5@?C. At 15@?C gravid females, spent females, and males lost 43.2, 3.60, and 3.84 cal g^-^1 day^-^1 metabolic heat; at 5@?C they lost 1.92, 1.92, and 1.68 cal g^-^1 day^-^1, respectively. Salamanders cease to feed at 5@?C. At 15@?C gravid females, spent females, and males ingested 21.0, 37.8, and 23.8 cal g^-^1 day^-^1 and egested 2.7, 5.1, and 2.9 cal g^-^1 day^-^1, with assimilation efficiencies of 87.2%, 86.3%, and 88.2%, respectively. The estimated annual energetics of a typical female are: ingestion = 2,940 cal; egestion = 378; assimilation = 2,562; respiration = 1,104.4; and secondary production = 1,457.6. Reproductive activities (vitellogenesis = 807.5 and brooding maintenance = 430 cal) cost 48.3% of a female's annual energy flow (A = 2,562 cal).
10.2307/2963503|This analysis uses information obtained primarily from museum collections to estimate demographic parameters of populations of thrushes (Turdus spp.) from throughout the Western Hemisphere. Adult survival rates were estimated from the proportions of individuals >1 yr old in museum collections, assuming constant population size, discrete reproductive seasons, unbiased collecting, and maturity at 1 yr old. The effects of relaxing each of these assumptions were examined. The resulting biases were found to be small compared to differences between populations, and in several cases, they were opposite to the conventional wisdom that survival rate increases towards the equator. The annual survival rate of adults (S) is estimated without bias by E(S) = A/(A + I), which has a standard error of [(AI)/(A + I)
10.2307/2937321|Real world ecosystems (as opposed to their mathematical counterparts) are often enormously complex associations of species which interact in diverse ways. As a matter of practical necessity, field ecologists can rarely specify, much less quantify, all of the interactions. Consequently, empirically derived equations purporting to describe the dynamics of such systems generally consider fewer than the total number of interacting species. The present paper calls attention to this reduction in dimensionality and explores some of its consequences. In particular, attention is called to what are termed the Abstracted Growth Equations, those of reduced dimensionality, and to the way that these expressions derive from the underlying n-variable equations. The degree to which the Abstracted Equations accurately describe the dynamics of the species of interest is shown to depend on the time scale of these species relative to that of the species which are omitted. A general result relating the product of the eigenvalues of the Abstracted Equations to the corresponding product for the n-variable equations is proved. It is further pointed out that the distinction between Abstracted and n-variable equations suggests experiments which at least in principle should enable the empiricist to estimate the importance of species and interactions which are omitted. The relationship between Abstracted and n-variable equations is also discussed with regard to measuring competition coefficients and related parameters, and also to the problem of determining whether or not higher order interactions are present in laboratory microcosms. The analysis concludes by comparing the stability properties of several simplified models of community interactions with those of the corresponding one-species Abstracted Equations. It is shown, for the case of difference equations, in particular, that analysis of the one-species models may often lead one to conclude that the system is stable, whereas in fact it is unstable due to overdamping. The final Discussion relates the results of the present paper to previous studies that anticipate the view presented here, and comments on the quarrel that has developed between those ecologists who believe in the existence of community-wide patterns of body size and the like and those who reject this view. It is suggested that the resolution of this dispute may depend on our ability to classify subsystems of species (i.e., guilds) with regard to the extent to which their internal organization is influenced by variation in the larger communities in which they are embedded. Finally, it is shown that Roughgarden's principal results for community coevolution can be deduced from the Abstracted Growth Equations of a particular subset of the entire community.
23596912|Terrestrial biosphere models can help identify physical processes that control carbon dynamics, including landatmosphere CO 2 fluxes, and have great potential to predict the terrestrial ecosystem response to changing climate. The skill of models that provide continental-scale carbon flux estimates, however, remains largely untested. This paper evaluates the performance of continental-scale flux estimates from 17 models against observations from 36 North American flux towers. Fluxes extracted from regional model simulations were compared with co-located flux tower observations at monthly and annual time increments. Site-level model simulations were used to help interpret sources of the mismatch between the regional simulations and site-based observations. On average, the regional model runs overestimated the annual gross primary productivity (5%) and total respiration (15%), and they significantly underestimated the annual net carbon uptake (64%) during the time period 2000 2005. Comparison with site-level simulations implicated choices specific to regional model simulations as contributors to the gross flux biases, but not the net carbon uptake bias. The models performed the best at simulating carbon exchange at deciduous broadleaf sites, likely because a number of models used prescribed phenology to simulate seasonal fluxes. The models did not perform as well for crop, grass, and evergreen sites. The regional models matched the observations most closely in terms of seasonal correlation and seasonal magnitude of variation, but they have very little skill at interannual correlation and minimal skill at interannual magnitude of variability. The comparison of site vs. regional-level model runs demonstrated that (1) the interannual correlation is higher for site-level model runs, but the skill remains low; and (2) the underestimation of year-to-year variability for all fluxes is an inherent weakness of the models. The best-performing regional models that did not use flux tower calibration were CLM-CN, CASA-GFEDv2, and SIB3.1. Two flux tower calibrated, empirical models, EC-MOD and MOD17+, performed as well as the best process-based models. This suggests that (1) empirical, calibrated models can perform as well as complex, process-based models and (2) combining process-based model structure with relevant constraining data could significantly improve model performance.
10.2307/2937275|Tree and shrub species composition and environmental characteristics were measured in 56 stands representing the range of natural vegetation types of the lower coastal plain of southeast Texas, and vegetation characteristics were related to the physical environment. Most of the stand-to-stand variation in species composition was expressed by the first axis of a reciprocal averaging ordination, and stand position along the first axis in turn was most highly correlated with percent sand in the surface soil (0-15 cm) (r = -.81, P <.05). The first ordination axis is interpreted as a soil moisture gradient. A more weakly expressed second axis of variation is interpreted as a soil aeration-parent material gradient (from high organic matter, low extractable Ca stands to low organic matter, high Ca stands). Overstory basal area, woody plant species richness of overstory and understory, and relative basal area of broad-leaved evergreens in both strata all varied in a regular way along the first ordination axis, having low values at the dry end, peaking in the wet-mesic range, and declining somewhat toward the wet end. Comparison of vegetation types in southeast Texas with those for the while of the southeastern. United States coastal plain showed widespread congruence of types. Major discrepancies were the lack of a pine flatwoods type in Texas and the presence in Texas of a flatland hardwood type and a pine-oak type more characteristic of the Piedmont further east. The question of fire, succession, and climax on the coastal plain is considered and it is suggested that the timing of different studies in the last 50 yr may have influenced results and interpretation.
10.2307/3100089|Much current research on community ecology concerns indirect effects, cascading trophic interactions, and the role of top-down vs. bottom-up processes, as well as subsidization of matter and energy between different systems. We addressed all these topics by exploring interactions between the urchin Parechinus angulosus and both recruits and juveniles of the abalone Haliotis midae, in the light of the fact that juvenile abalone shelter beneath the urchins. In field experiments at six sites, urchins were eliminated from removal plots to determine the degree to which juvenile abalone (individuals 3-35 mm in length) depend upon urchins. Comparisons were made with undisturbed and disturbance-control plots. We hypothesized that after removal of urchins: (1) there would be an immediate decline of juvenile abalone, since they are intimately associated with the urchins; (2) abalone recruits (recent settlers <3 mm in length) would be unlikely to suffer immediately or directly because, unlike juveniles, they are only weakly associated with the urchins; (3) foliar algae would proliferate due to decreased grazing by urchins; (4) there would be a consequent reduction in crustose coralline algae due to overgrowth by foliar algae; and (5) the decline of crustose corallines would reduce recruitment of abalone due to a loss of settlement and nursery habitat. In urchin-removal plots, juvenile abalone declined dramatically, becoming virtually extinct locally. Their disappearance was slowest in crevices compared with exposed habitats, but even there they failed to survive longer than five months. Contrary to expectations, abalone recruits also disappeared from urchin-removal plots, possibly because the cover of sediment almost doubled there. Also contrary to our hypotheses, neither foliar macroalgae nor encrusting corallines responded to urchin removal. The explanation of these results is that P. angulosus was able to gather drift kelp when this food source was available, rather than acting as an active grazer. This feeding pattern has profound consequences and explains why urchins failed to influence algal community composition. By sheltering beneath urchins, juvenile abalone gain protection from predators and may also benefit from an enhanced food supply. Bottom-up subsidization of urchins by drift kelp is thus responsible for the feeding behavior of the urchins, and indirectly facilitates their role in harboring juvenile abalone. This role is of immense importance for the lucrative abalone fishery, and depletion of urchins could lead to a collapse of abalone populations. Human exploitation of top predators that consume urchins, such as rock lobsters and some fishes, has conceivably exaggerated the role of urchins in sustaining juvenile abalone.
10.2307/1942586|Unlike most phytophagous insects, the reproduction of primary bark beetles (Coleoptera: Scolytidae) is contingent on host mortality. Consequently, there have been intense selective pressures on trees for properties which confer resistance to attack, and likewise, on the insect for increased behavioral complexity by which to overcome these defenses. In this study, we examined the relationship between the physiology of Pinus contorta var. latifolia and the behavior of the bark beetle, Dendroctonus ponderosae. Host mortality is a discrete outcome which is contingent on the quantitative interaction between host resistance and beetle numbers. At low attack densities, trees respond by confining beetles and their associated fungi within necrotic lesions containing toxic or inhibitory compounds. Beyond a critical @'threshold of attack,@' however, the defensive capacity of the tree is exhausted, and mortality occurs. This threshold occurred at @?40 galleries/m^2 in our experimental stands. The reproductive success of the bark beetle is directly related to the depletion of host defenses through concentrated attack. At sufficiently high attack densities, @?80 galleries/m^2, the potential suppressive effect of the host on brood development is not manifested. Increased beetle numbers, however, cause an exponential decline in brood production due to intraspecific competition. Consequently, there is an optimal density, @?62 attacks/m^2 at which reproduction and survival of the beetle is maximized. Dendroctonus ponderosae utilize defensive secretions as precursors and synergists of aggregation pheromones, and thereby, elicit maximum responses from flying beetles while the host's production of toxins is at its maximum. This mechanism also ensures that the attack will terminate once the tree has been rendered suitable for brood development and, thus, minimizes the deleterious effect of intraspecific competition. Such an interaction, in which all trees could theoretically be colonized regardless of their resistance capacity, cannot result in a stable host-parasite system. Conifers, however, seem to be able to interfere with bark beetle communication. Pheromone synthesis within the hindgut and emission from the entrance site are distinct events, and beetles contained within a copious flow of resin seem unable to elicit attraction. This ability to interrupt the beetles' communication sequence, however, is inversely related to the number of beetles initiating localized attacks. Consequently, the colonization sequence reflects the outcome of a dynamic interaction between the tree and the initial @'pioneer@' beetles.
10.2307/1942525|Pollination, fecundity, dispersal, establishment, and survival of Lithospermum caroliniense (Boraginaceae) were examined over five years on sand dunes of different ages at Miller Dunes, Indiana, USA, to determine the effect of various environmental factors on the relationship between reproduction and other life history stages. Lithospermum caroliniense is a self-incompatible, iteroparous, distylous herb that depends on cross-pollination by insects for fertilization. Level of pollination was highly variable from year to year. For each of the two floral morphs, a high proportion of pollen was derived from the other morph in years of abundant pollination. In years when pollen loads were extremely low, fruit-set was limited by pollinator activity. Even with abundant transfer of compatible pollen, fecundity of L. caroliniense averaged less than one nutlet per flower. Individuals were consistent in level of fruit production from year to year. Emergence of seedlings of L. caroliniense was greatest when propagules were covered by 1-4 cm of sand in experimental field and garden studies. Propagules exposed on the sand surface were unlikely to obtain sufficient moisture for germination, while hypocotyls of seedlings that germinated at depths of @>5 cm were incapable of elongating sufficiently to reach the sand surface. Most propagules germinated after the first winter, but results from experimental plantings showed that many propagules remained dormant until after the second winter. First-season seedling survival averaged 7-34%, except in 1981, when frequent rainfall and moderate temperatures doubled the percentage that survived. The highest survival was among seedlings emerging near Lake Michigan or on sites with a shallow water table. Mortality of 1- and 2-yr-old plants was low. Individual plants grew faster and flowered at younger ages at sites closer to Lake Michigan. At the site closest to the lake, @?83% of the 1978 cohort flowered at age 3 or 4 yr. At greater distances from the lake, most members of the 1978 cohort had not flowered by 1983. Except for some members of the 1981 cohort established near the lake, few plants in younger cohorts had flowered by 1983. In light of the slow growth rates of 1978-1982 cohorts and of many marked adults, large individuals of L. caroliniense are probably very old. Heavy nutlets typically fell within 60 cm of the parent plant. Dispersal was primarily downslope of adults, since adult foliage was lodged in a downslope direction by the time of propagule maturation; dispersal by wind or rolling was limited. Nutlets of L. caroliniense were consumed in large quantities, apparently by rodents, since the shelled remains of nutlets were common around adults. Occasional dispersal of intact nutlets by herbivores could be important in colonization of recently formed sand dunes. Although L. caroliniense is clearly dependent on newly formed sand dunes or disturbances, colonization is rare because dispersal of propagules is extremely limited. Large propagules are essential for establishment, but are not conducive to dispersal and colonization. Long adult life-span facilitates occasional colonization. Despite traits favoring establishment, seedlings suffered high mortality, except in years of abundant and evenly distributed rainfall. Since adult mortality was generally low, the life history of L. caroliniense resembles the pattern in which high juvenile mortality favors evolution of iteroparity and a long life-span. However, in contrast to species that produce a small number of offspring in any one year, the indeterminate, modular growth form of L. caroliniense means that increasing numbers of propagules are produced over the lifetime of an individual, until habitat change results in decline of adults. The combination of life-history characteristics occurring in this species argues against strict application of current life-history categorizations.
43187887|Biofuels are being pursued for their potential greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions benefits, among other reasons. In order to maximize productivity, avoid food-fuel conflicts, and minimize GHG emissions, many advanced biofuel feedstock crops, such as those desired by the aviation community, are under consideration based on traits, such as high biomass and/or seed production, tolerance of marginal cultivation conditions, and short generation times, that may also be predictors of potential invasiveness risk. Biofuel-related invasion risks can be mitigated through careful feedstock crop selection and cultivation techniques developed from the invasion science literature. Existing voluntary best practices and some state and federal regulatory requirements in the United States recommend and/or require the use of such risk mitigation strategies. However, other policies and programs allow or provide incentives for biofuel production without conditions requiring the use of these strategies. We have synthesized information on the scientific knowledge of invasive species predictors and their use (or absence) in voluntary codes and U.S. regulatory frameworks and incentive programs. We highlight the existing tools and approaches for assessing invasion risk and avoiding the introduction and spread of invasive species as a result of biofuel feedstock cultivation. A wellcoordinated combination of species restrictions, biosecurity requirements, and incentives for selection of less risky biofuel crops may effectively balance the desire for increased biofuel production while minimizing invasion risk.
41739380|Ecologists describe plant distribution using direct gradient analysis, by which a tolerance curve of species abundance is described along an environmental gradient (any environmental variable that affects plant distribution). Soil moisture is generally the gradient in low-relief areas that explains the most variation. Traditional direct gradient analyses have used terrain structure (i.e., transects up or down hillslopes) as a correlate to soil moisture. Here we use a numerical tectonic and geomorphic process-based landscape development model to create two landscapes with different geomorphic characteristics: (1) to demonstrate the influence of geomorphic processes on soil moisture patterns and plant distribution and (2) to evaluate the effectiveness of transects in describing moisture gradients and tolerance curves on landscapes dominated by creep or overland flow. We use a topographic index to approximate the distribution of soil moisture as it is determined by the shape of these different landscapes. Transects are placed on hillslopes in each model landscape and used to construct tolerance curves. Results show that transect methods that use the distance from the channel to the ridgeline as an approximation of soil moisture create variable tolerance curves for the same plant both within a single landscape and between different landscapes. The reason for these differences is that transects do not take into account the three-dimensional landscape form that explains water movement. Landscapes have regions of convexity and flow path divergence and regions of concavity and flow path convergence that, along with hillslope length, determine contributing area. In addition, hillslope curvature results in varying capacities to retain water. However, when the topographic index is used instead of hillslope transect position, tolerance curves from the same and different landscapes reflect the differences the topographic structure has on soil moisture. We thus show that traditional methods of direct gradient analysis are not always adequate as they do not tend to consider that soil moisture depends on hillslope length, curvature, and slope. Furthermore, we show that within and between landscapes there are differences in spatial distributions of soil moisture that are reflections of the geomorphic processes that created them.
10.2307/1942257|The relation of community structure to community function is the subject of much ecological theorizing. Three approaches to the problem, based on cybernetics, control theory, and niche theory, can be identified. They concur in giving biological interactions a major role in the determination of community structure in general, and species diversity in particular. To examine this body of theory, I use a @'neutral@' model for community development, a model which eliminates completely the biological interactions in question. Comparison of the patterns of community structure resulting from this model with the structure of natural communities provides an estimate of the effect of the biotic interactions. This can then be compared to the theoretically predicted effects. The neutral model used was originally developed in population genetics. In the context in which it is used here, it describes the stochastic development of a set of noninteracting populations, which colonize a community, persist temporarily, and eventually become extinct. The model predicts the form of the distribution of relative abundances and of species area curves, and sample values of species diversity. Comparisons of the model's predictions with actual community structure are made across what are taken to be gradients in the importance of biological interaction (successional vs. climax communities, high variation vs. low variation environments, the temperate zone vs. the tropics), using data on birds, fish, trees and insects. The results clearly contradict some of the theories of community structure. In those situations where biological interactions are predicted to generate the greatest increase in species diversity, the neutral model analysis shows that diversity is in fact significantly lower than would be expected in the absence of such interactions. Some implications of these findings for community theory are discussed.
40385218|There is still much uncertainty about ecological controls on the rate and direction of net CO exchange by tropical rain forests, in spite of their importance to global C cycling. These controls are thought to arise from hydrologic and nutrient constraints to CO fixation caused by seasonality of precipitation and adverse chemical properties of some major tropical soil types. Using the ecosystem model ecosys, we show that water uptake to a depth of 8 m avoids constraints to CO and energy exchange from soil drying during five-month dry seasons typical for eastern Amazonian forests. This avoidance in the model was tested with eddy covariance (EC) measurements of CO and energy fluxes during 2003 and 2004 over an old-growth forest on an acidic, nutrient-poor oxisol in the Tapajs National Forest (TNF) in Par, Brazil. Modeled CO fixation was strongly constrained by slow phosphorus (P) uptake caused by low soil pH. Daytime CO influxes in the model were in close agreement with EC measurements (R > 0.8) during both wet and dry seasons. Both modeled and measured fluxes indicated that seasonality of precipitation affected CO and energy exchange more through its effect on radiation and air temperature than on soil water content. When aggregated to a yearly scale, modeled and gap-filled EC CO fluxes indicated that old-growth forest stands in the TNF remained within 100 g Cm.yr of C neutrality in the absence of major disturbance. Annual C transformations in ecosys were further corroborated by extensive biometric measurements taken in the TNF and elsewhere in the Amazon basin, which also indicated that old-growth forests were either small C sources or small C sinks. Long-term model runs suggested that rain forests could be substantial C sinks for several decades while regenerating after stand-replacing disturbances, but would gradually decline toward C neutrality thereafter. The time course of net ecosystem productivity (NEP) in the model depended upon annual rates of herbivory and tree mortality, which were based on site observations as affected by weather (e.g., El Nio Southern Oscillation [ENSO] events). This dependence suggests that rain forest NEP is strongly controlled by disturbance as well as by weather.
10.2307/1942655|Thoreau's Bog in Concord, Massachusetts, is a floating-mat Sphagnum bog developed in a glacial kettle hole. Low shrub vegetation of the open mat is dominated by Chamaedaphne calyculata; trees include scattered Picea mariana and Larix laricina. Hydrological investigations show the bog to be ombrotrophic, with an annual water input of 1.45 m and an annual runoff of 0.24 m. Corresponding metal inputs are 88, 132, and 54 mg@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 for K, Mg, and Pb, respectively. K and Mg are vertically distributed in the bog profile in accord with the inhomogeneous ion exchange chemistry of peat, while lead is distributed in accord with historical trends in atmospheric lead fallout. Isotopic dating using ^2^1^0Pb is a valuable tool for determining net peat accumulation rate, which is 180 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1. Annual storage rates of K, Mg, and Pb in peat amount to 36, 54, and 46 mg@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1, respectively. Bog acidity (pH = 3.8) is maintained by organic acids at concentrations of 10^-^3 eq/L. The effect of cation exchange on bog acidity is modest, while the much larger contribution of @'acid rain@' is offset by alkalinity increases of the same magnitude resulting from sulfate reduction and nitrate uptake. These latter processes are, in effect, a strong buffer mechanism against acid rain. ^2^1^0Pb dating and historical records suggest that the floating mat is relatively young, perhaps as few as 500 yr old. These data raise the possibility that the bog is not a relict of colder, early postglacial periods, but instead, may have developed under modern climatic conditions.
10.2307/1942575|An intensive study of the zooplankton community of Mirror Lake, New Hampshire, was undertaken over a 3-yr period. Our objectives in the lake study have included measurements of a number of attributes of the zooplankton community that integrate structure and function at the ecosystem level; among these are dispersion, biomass, productivity, respiration, and nutrient cycling. Eight species of rotifers and 3 species of cladocerans were successfully cultured. Generation time for planktonic rotifers was @?8-10 days (17@?C). The effect of higher food levels on rotifers was to shorten generation time and to increase brood size. In cladocerans, high food levels caused an increase in length and brood size. A curvilinear relationship existed between zooplankton community respiration and temperature in Mirror Lake. Mean monthly zooplankton community respiration ranged from 96.0 kg C/ha/mo in June of 1969 to a low of 20.5 kg C/ha/mo in April of 1970. Over a 3-yr period, respiration was 79.9% of assimilation. The 0 to 4.5-m strata (@?epilimnion) contributed 68.5% and 46.5% of the annual zooplankton production and biomass. Zooplankton community production ranged from 22.3 kg C/ha/yr to 29.3 kg C/ha/yr with a 3-yr mean of 25.2 kg C/ha/yr. The annual zooplankton biomass ranged from 1.4 to 2.6 kg C/ha with a 3-yr mean of 2.0 kg C/ha. A linear relationship was found to exist between net phytoplankton and zooplankton production in various lakes of the world. Ecological efficiency apparently increases with the trophic status of the lake. It is recommended that the term ecological efficiency be refined to include both autochthonous and allochthonous inputs of reduced carbon into the lake. Rotifers assume a major role in intrasystem nutrient cycling and energy transfer within the lake ecosystem. Of the total amount of P incorporated into the organic matter of zooplankton community each year, 33.5% is assimilated in rotifer tissue. The annual turnover rate of P by rotifers is 30.9 and is high compared to crustaceans (10.1). Copepods comprise 55.4% of the total zooplankton biomass. However, the copepods, with their slow growth over an entire year, represent only 19.3% of the zooplankton production, while rotifers account for 39.8% of the zooplankton production annually in Mirror Lake. Also, evidence is presented that rotifers play a major role in energy transfer in lakes of varying trophic status (oligotrophic to eutrophic).
10.2307/2937160|Food limitation is generally thought to underlie much of the variation in life history traits of birds. I examined variation and covariation of life history traits of 123 North American Passeriformes and Piciformes in relation to nest sites, nest predation, and foraging sites to examine the possible roles of these ecological factors in life history evolution of birds. Annual fecundity was strongly inversely related to adult survival, even when phylogenetic effects were controlled. Only a little of the variation in fecundity and survival was related to foraging sites, whereas these traits varied strongly among nest sites. Interspecific differences in nest predation were correlated with much of the variation in life history traits among nest sites, although energy trade-offs with covarying traits also may account for some variation. For example, increased nest predation is associated with a shortened nestling period and both are associated with more broods per year, but number of broods is inversely correlated with clutch size, possibly due to an energy trade-off. Number of broods was much more strongly correlated with annual fecundity and adult survival among species than was clutch size, suggesting that clutch size may not be the primary fecundity trait on which selection is acting. Ultimately, food limitation may cause trade-offs between annual fecundity and adult survival, but differences among species in fecundity and adult survival may not be explained by differences in food abundance and instead represent differing tactics for partitioning similar levels of food limitation. Variation in fecundity and adult survival is more clearly organized by nest sites and more closely correlated with nest predation; species that use nest sites with greater nest predation have shorter nestling periods and more broods,yielding higher fecundity, which in turn is associated with reduced adult survival. Fecundity also varied with migratory tendencies; short-distance migrants had more broods and greater fecundity than did neotropical migrants and residents using similar nest sites. However, migratory tendencies and habitat use were confounded, making separation of these two effects difficult. Nonetheless, the conventional view that neotropical migrants have fewer broods than residents was not supported when nest site effects were controlled.
4134790|Frugivores are thought to influence plant recruitment by creating initial seed deposition templates. However, post-deposition processes (e.g., predation) may obscure these initial patterns. Few studies have examined successive life-history stages of animal-dispersed plants to evaluate how initial frugivore seed deposition influences early life stages of plant recruitment. We addressed this issue by quantifying seed removal and seedling recruitment of Monodora myristica (Annonaceae), a tropical, low-fecundity, forest tree in Kibale National Park, Uganda. Fruit morphology suggests that this species is dispersed by only the largest arboreal frugivores. We determined which frugivores removed fruit during focal tree watches and quantified seed fate in experiments designed to mimic natural deposition. We estimated stage-specific transition probabilities of survivorship to seedling establishment and determined expected seedling recruitment from each deposition condition. To evaluate spatial and temporal variation, these methods were conducted at two sites, 15 km apart, over two years. Finally, we compared frugivore abundance between sites to expected seedling and standing seedling, sapling, and pole abundances. We found that large-bodied primates were critical for seed dispersal. They were the only frugivores that opened the hard-husked fruits and were estimated to disperse >85% of mature seeds. Seeds placed away from parents had higher germination and establishment probabilities than those under parents, indicating that seed dispersal is advantageous. Single seeds away from parents (mimicking small-bodied primate seed spitting) had the highest cumulative seedling recruitment probability. However, in three of four site-by-year combinations, 86-94% of estimated recruits came from seeds placed in clumps in dung (mimicking large-bodied primates). High recruitment in the latter condition is due to the large number of seeds estimated to be deposited by large-bodied primates. Despite this concordance, germination and establishment probabilities were highly variable between sites and years. Germination was a limiting step in recruitment, and high seed mortality from beetles and rodents indicates the importance of predation. The site with higher frugivorous primate abundance had higher standing seedling abundance, but lower expected seedling recruitment and lower sapling and pole abundances. Thus, even in a system where frugivores are critical for dispersal, spatial and temporal variation in post-deposition processes reduces predictability of frugivore actions on seedling recruitment.
23047554|The global decline in estuarine and coastal ecosystems (ECEs) is affecting a number of critical benefits, or ecosystem services. We review the main ecological services across a variety of ECEs, including marshes, mangroves, nearshore coral reefs, seagrass beds, and sand beaches and dunes. Where possible, we indicate estimates of the key economic values arising from these services, and discuss how the natural variability of ECEs impacts their benefits, the synergistic relationships of ECEs across seascapes, and management implications. Although reliable valuation estimates are beginning to emerge for the key services of some ECEs, such as coral reefs, salt marshes, and mangroves, many of the important benefits of seagrass beds and sand dunes and beaches have not been assessed properly. Even for coral reefs, marshes, and mangroves, important ecological services have yet to be valued reliably, such as cross-ecosystem nutrient transfer (coral reefs), erosion control (marshes), and pollution control (mangroves). An important issue for valuing certain ECE services, such as coastal protection and habitatfishery linkages, is that the ecological functions underlying these services vary spatially and temporally. Allowing for the connectivity between ECE habitats also may have important implications for assessing the ecological functions underlying key ecosystems services, such coastal protection, control of erosion, and habitatfishery linkages. Finally, we conclude by suggesting an action plan for protecting and/or enhancing the immediate and longer-term values of ECE services. Because the connectivity of ECEs across landsea gradients also influences the provision of certain ecosystem services, management of the entire seascape will be necessary to preserve such synergistic effects. Other key elements of an action plan include further ecological and economic collaborative research on valuing ECE services, improving institutional and legal frameworks for management, controlling and regulating destructive economic activities, and developing ecological restoration options.
10.2307/1942260|Tissue water potential is the most important factor throughout the seasons controlling phenological events, photosynthesis, and productivity of Larrea divaricata growing in Deep Canyon near Palm Desert, California. Growth of reproductive structures was initiated at the time of highest tissue water potential and ceased as water potential decreased. Percentage foliation correlated strongly with dawn water potential (r = 0.89). The elongation rate of stems and the rate of node production were both dependent on tissue water potential. Leaf growth and node growth proceeded at varying rates throughout the year, providing a continuous sink for photosynthates. Photosynthesis rates ranged from 9.02 mg CO"2 incorporated per day per gram dry weight of leaf tissue in September to an estimated 74.7 mg CO"2 in early February. Net photosynthesis and relative productivity correlated very strongly with dawn water potential (r = 0.93 and r = 0.97, respectively). Larrea plants were labeled at 1- to 2-month intervals with photosynthetically incorporated ^1^4CO"2to determine the utilization in growth and storage of photosynthate fractions produced at various times throughout the year. Tissue was subsampled at similar intervals, and the activity in various metabolic compounds (sugar, starch, lipid, organic acid, amino acid, protein, cellulose, and cell-wall materials) was analyzed. The utilization of photosynthates in the various fractions was similar in all seasons. No appreciable mobilization into and out of storage materials was apparent. Never dormant, Larrea remains metabolically active and forms new tissue throughout the year. This growth pattern may be an important adaptation allowing Larrea to exist in a wide range of geographical and climatic areas, and, perhaps owing to the species' tropical affinities, it might have been a preadaptation to the desert environment.
10.2307/2963483|Assessments of ecological risk require accurate predictions of contaminant dynamics in natural populations. However, simple deterministic models that assume constant uptake rates and elimination fractions may compromise both their ecological realism and their general application to animals with variable metabolisms or diets. In particular, the temperature-dependent metabolic rates characteristic of ectotherms may lead to significant differences between observed and predicted contaminant kinetics. We examined the influence of a seasonally variable thermal environment on predicting the uptake and annual cycling of contaminants by ectotherms, using a temperature-dependent model of
10.2307/1942303|Measurements of the abundance of major populations, their metabolism, and the seasonal patterns of total system metabolism throughout a year were used to develop energy-flow diagrams for a New England salt-marsh embayment. The annual ecological energy budget for the embayment indicates that consumption exceeds production, so that the system must depend on inputs of organic detritus from marsh grasses. Gross production ranged from almost zero in winter to about 5 g O"2 m^-^2 day^-^1 in summer. Respiration values were similar, but slightly higher, with the maximum difference observed in fall. Populations of shrimp and fish were largest in fall, with a much smaller peak in spring. Few animals were present in the embayment from May to July, but fall populations of shrimp ranged from 250 to 800 m^-^2 and fish averaged over 10 m^-^2. Birds were most abundant in winter and spring. In spite of high numbers, no evidence was found that the marsh embayment exported large amounts of shrimp or fish to the estuary. Production of aboveground emergent grasses on the marsh equaled 840 g m^-^2 for tall Spartina alterniflora, 432 g m^-^2 for short S. alterniflora, and 430 g m^-^2 for S. patens. These values are similar to those for New York marshes, but substantially lower than the southern marsh types. The efficiency of production of marsh grasses in the New England marsh was lower than reported for southern areas. A simulation model based on the laboratory and field metabolism and biomass measurements of parts of the embayment system was developed to predict diurnal patterns of dissolved oxygen in the marsh. The model was verified with field measurements of diurnal oxygen curves. The model indicated the importance of the timing of high tides in determining oxygen levels and was used to explore simulated additions of sewage BOD and increases in temperature.
10.2307/1942617|Larvae of Pieris rapae (Lepidoptera: Pieridae) were reared on several crucifer species and varieties which differed in their nitrogen content, either naturally or because they had been fertilized with NH"4NO"3. Growth rates, food consumption rates, and efficiencies of food utilization were determined for fifth instar larvae on all plants, using standard methods. Larvae on low-nitrogen plants consumed food faster, utilized it less efficiently, and utilized N more efficiently than larvae on high-nitrogen plants. As a result, growth rates and rates of accumulation of N into larval biomass were as high on plants of 1.5% (dry wt) N as on plants of 4.8% (dry wt) N. There was no correlation between larval growth rate and reported patterns of glucosinolate content in the food plants. We attribute low N accumulation rates and growth rates on Lepidium virginicum, Lunaria annua, and Thlaspi arvense to the presence in these plants of unique secondary compounds or atypical glucosinolate breakdown products. Larvae fed on Dentaria diphylla and on the most highly fertilized collards (6.1% dry wt N) accumulated N and grew at unusualy high rates. This may be because N in these plants was more digestible than in the other food plants. We suggest that larvae of P. rapae adjust their feeding rates to maximize the rate at which they can accumulate N, and thus the rate at which they can grow, on any given food plant. There is a limit to the rate at which N can be accumulated, because N is utilized less efficiently as it is consumed faster. We conclude that the growth of P. rapae larvae is limited by the availability of N in their food plants, that N budgets for such larvae are of greater ecological significance than energy budgets, and that, in this case at least, natural selection favors the rate (power output) rather than the efficiency of a biological process.
10.2307/1942633|Our purpose in this paper is to determine how the degree of polyphagy of different herbivorous insect species affects their yearly population variability. We assembled data from three studies on herbivorous insects: on British aphids, British moths, and Canadian Macrolepidoptera. Within each data set, we compared estimates of population variability across species, and related these differences to estimates of the degree of polyphagy. The degree of polyphagy was negatively correlated or uncorrelated with population variability, i.e., highly polyphagous species have a weak tendency to be less variable than host specialists. This result lends some support to MacArthur's (1955) argument that polyphagous species may be less susceptible to fluctuating resource levels. Population variability in monophagous or oligophagous herbivorous insects may, in part, reflect variation in resource levels. However, we have not yet evaluated the possibility that the levels of predation and parasitism suffered may affect variability even more strongly.
43188378|A major challenge facing ecology is to better understand how large-scale processes modify local-scale processes to shape the organization of ecological communities. Although the results of ecological experiments are repeatable on local scales, different results often emerge across broad scales, which can hinder the development of general predictions that apply across the geographical range of a community. Numerous studies in the southern Gulf of Maine have shaped our understanding of community organization and dynamics on New England rocky intertidal shores, where consumers strongly control recovery from disturbance on sheltered shores, and high invertebrate recruitment and competition for space dictate recovery on wave-exposed shores. It is unclear, however, whether the effects of consumers and recruitment variation on resulting community organization in this region apply more broadly to rocky intertidal habitats throughout the Gulf. We characterized variation in rocky intertidal community structure at 34 sites throughout the Gulf of Maine and experimentally examined the influence of consumers (present, absent) and wave energy (wave-exposed, sheltered) on community recovery from disturbance in the northern and southern Gulf. Our results reinforced previous work in the southern Gulf, because consumers dictated the recovery of fucoid algae and mussels on sheltered shores, whereas high barnacle and mussel recruitment and competition for space shaped recovery on wave-exposed shores. However, on sheltered shores in the northern Gulf, neither consumers nor barnacle and mussel recruitment impacted recovery, which was dominated by fucoid algae. Moreover, recovery on wave-exposed shores in the northern Gulf was quite distinct from that observed in the southern Gulf; barnacle and mussel recruitment was negligible and fucoid algae dominated recovery, including the long-term establishment of Ascophyllum nodosum, which is largely absent from wave-exposed shores in the southern Gulf. Thus, distinct community types emerged in the northern and southern Gulf despite their sharing of many of the same species. These patterns likely emerged because of regional differences in coastal oceanography that modulate the recruitment of barnacles and mussels. Hence, increased attention to regional factors should provide key insight into how rocky-shore communities are organized in the Gulf of Maine and elsewhere.
27646120|Many animal species have developed specific evolutionary adaptations to survive prolonged periods of low energy availability that characterize seasonal environments. The seasonal course of primary production, a major aspect of ecosystem functioning, should therefore be an important factor determining the habitat quality of such species. We tested this hypothesis by analyzing the relationship between habitat quality and ecosystem functioning for brown bears (Ursus arctos), a species showing hyperphagia and hibernation as evolutionary adaptation to seasonal peaks and bottlenecks in ecosystem productivity, respectively. Our unique long-term data set comprised data from two brown bear populations in northern Spain on historical presence, current presence, and reproduction. The data were classified on a grid of 5  5 km pixels into five classes: frequent reproduction, sporadic reproduction, frequent presence, sporadic presence, and recent extinction. We used the long-term average of the seasonal course of NDVI (normalized difference vegetation index) as a proxy for ecosystem functioning and investigated the relationship between habitat quality and ecosystem functioning with methods borrowed from statistical point-pattern analysis. We found that brown bears indeed selected habitat with specific ecosystem functioning (i.e., the variance in all habitat classes was smaller than in the landscape overall) and the relationship between habitat quality and ecosystem functioning was ordered. First, the average distance in ecosystem functioning between two habitat classes was larger if the difference in habitat quality was larger. Second, habitat for which there was the greatest need (i.e., breeding habitat) occupied the narrowest niche regarding ecosystem functioning and showed the most pronounced seasonality. Progressively poorer classes occupied wider niches that partly overlapped those of better classes. This indicated that nonbreeding animals are less selective. Our methodology provided new insight into the relationship between ecosystem functioning and habitat quality and could be widely applied to animal species living in seasonal environments. Because NDVI data are continuously collected, our methodology allows for continuous monitoring of changes in habitat quality due to global change.
10.2307/3100098|Most ecological experiments test constant environmental conditions instead of the temporally varying conditions that are typical of most ecological systems. This study experimentally evaluated the effects of temporal variations of soil salinity and moisture on the germination of an 11-species annual plant assemblage. In soil-based microcosms with common seed banks, constant conditions were compared to different amplitudes, durations, and seasonal timing of low salinity or high moisture that simulate conditions in the upper intertidal marsh of southern California during periods of germination. The percentage germination of seeds of eight species decreased when low salinity or high moisture lasted for 1 wk before changing to high salinity and low moisture for 3 wk (varying conditions) compared to 4 wk of low salinity or high moisture (constant conditions). The seed germination speed of two species differed (both faster and slower) between the varying and constant treatments. Species responses to varying vs. constant conditions depended on the specific amplitude of temporary low salinity (0, 8, or 17 g/kg) in the varying treatments. Similarly, the duration (1, 2, or 4 wk) of low salinity or high moisture affected the percentage germination (four species) and germination speed (two species). Percentage germination (four species) and germination speed (eight species) also differed according to whether low salinity and high moisture were initiated in November, January, or March. The sensitivity of species seeds to temporally varying conditions could be explained by their germination traits and identity as native or exotic. Seeds of the six exotic species were less sensitive to varying conditions, germinated faster, and were more tolerant of high salinity and low moisture than seeds of the five native species. Varying conditions resulted in different patterns of germination than constant conditions, and environmental factors typically vary through time in the field. Thus, experimenters who are trying to understand or predict plant establishment should consider and simulate, as closely as possible, the variability in field conditions.
27806882|We performed a meta-analysis of published studies and long-term monitoring data sets to evaluate the effects of dreissenid mussels (Dreissena polymorpha and D. rostriformis bugensis), two of the world's most problematic biological invaders, on the biogeochemistry, flora, and fauna of lakes and rivers across North America and Eurasia. Dreissenid effects were structured along two distinct energy pathways. For the pelagicprofundal pathway, large mean reductions in phytoplankton (35% to 78%) and zooplankton (40% to 77%) biomass occurred and were dependent on habitat type. The largest effects were found in rivers, followed by littoral and pelagic habitats in lakes. In contrast, benthic energy pathways within littoral habitats of lakes and rivers showed dramatic increases in mean benthic algal and macrophyte biomass (+170% to +180%), sediment-associated bacteria (about +2000%), non-dreissenid zoobenthic biomass (+160% to +210%), and total zoobenthic biomass, which includes dreissenid mussel soft tissues (+2000%). Our study quantifies the remarkable ability of these invasive mussels to shift aquatic food webs and energy flow from pelagicprofundal to benthiclittoral energy pathways, and it provides a basis for forecasting their impacts in diverse freshwater ecosystems. Our meta-analysis approach was a powerful tool for moving beyond the idiosyncrasies of individual case studies and may be equally powerful for assessing impacts of other biological invaders.
10.2307/2937289|Four mechanisms of coexistence are considered that may contribute to the diversity of desert granivorous rodent communities. In the first, bush/open microhabitat selection, coexistence is possible if there is a trade-off between foraging efficiency in the bush and open microhabitats. In the second, temporal variation in resource abundances, coexistence is possible if there is a trade-off between foraging efficiency and maintenance efficiency. The first species can forage profitably on low resource abundances while the second uses dormancy to travel inexpensively in time between periods of high resource abundances. In the third, spatial variation in resource abundance, coexistence is possible if there is a trade-off between foraging efficiency and the cost of travel. The first species forages patches to a lower giving-up density, (the density of resource at which a forager ceases foraging), while the second can inexpensively travel between patches with high resource abundances. In the fourth, seasonal rotation in foraging efficiencies, coexistence is possible if there is a trade-off between the costs of foraging during different seasons. The species that is the more efficient forager changes seasonally. The first mechanism of coexistence has received much empirical attention and support. The other three have not previously been considered with desert rodents. In a community of four granivorous rodent species, I used artificial seed patches to measure species- and habitat-specific foraging efficiencies and live-trapping to measure population sizes and mean distances between recaptures. Of the four, the fourth mechanism of coexistence best explained the presence of Perognathus amplus, Dipodomys merriami, and Spermophilus tereticaudus in the community. Each species enjoyed a period of the year during which it was the most efficient forager. Furthermore, the annual population densities of these three species fluctuated out of phase. Seasonal changes in species-specific predation risks and body size-dependent metabolic costs may have accounted for these results. The third mechanism of coexistence best explained the presence of Ammospermophilus harrisii in the community. This species preferred to forage a large number of widely spaced patches to a high giving-up density rather than forage a few patches to a low giving-up density.
10.2307/2937291|We used descriptive and experimental approaches on Gould Creek, a first-order tributary of the Mississippi River near Lake Itasca, Minnesota to assess the influence of (1) flow regime on the colonization dynamics and abundance of invertebrates and cyprinids, and (2) cyprinid predation on invertebrates and fishes. Stream flow varied annually during the 3-yr (1984-1986) period. One dry year (1984), with few periods of elevated flow, was followed by two wet years (1985-1986), with prolonged elevated (nonscouring) discharge. The density of benthic and drifting invertebrates increased dramatically with elevated flow. Benthic riffle invertebrates in particular increased, from a maximum of 9000 individuals/m^2 in 1984 to 91 000 individuals/m^2 in 1985 and 51 000 individuals/m^2 in 1986. Larval Hydropsychidae and Simuliidae were the primary groups increasing in abundance during elevated flow. To assess directly the influence of flow regime on benthic insect densities, flow was manipulated in six subsections of a riffle and colonization of natural rock substrates monitored. Total insect abundance was higher under elevated (nonscouring) vs. low flow within 6-8 d; after 24 d insect abundance was three times as high under elevated flow. Insect families responded differently to elevated flow, with the largest increase resulting from a pulse of colonization by larval Hydropsychidae in 6-8 d. Cyprinid density in Gould Creek also increased with elevated flow from 0.1-0.3 cyprinids/m^2 in 1984 to 1-2 cyprinids/m^2 in 1985 and 1986. The increased fish density was most pronounced during spawning periods in spring (May-June) and consisted primarily of older individuals. All cyprinids, except the creek chub (Semotilus atromaculatus), decreased in abundance 4-5 wk after spring colonization, regardless of flow conditions and invertebrate abundance. All cyprinids in Gould Creek selected pool habitats. Experiments in an artificial stream on Gould Creek indicated cyprinids influenced invertebrate abundance, but the effect of cyprinid predation was variable among habitats. Invertebrate abundance decreased most in structurally complex pools but exhibited little response to cyprinid predation in shallow riffle and raceway habitats. Because predation intensity varied among habitats, pool-dwelling invertebrates such as Chironomidae and Crustacea decreased more in the presence of cyprinid predation than riffle-dwelling Hydropsychidae and Simuliidae. However, if Simuliidae occurred in pool habitats, they were strongly selected by cyprinids, resulting in a significant depression in prey size in pools. Experiments in the artificial stream indicated creek chubs preyed on adult cyprinids, but larger species (adults 70-80 mm) were less susceptible to predation than smaller species (adults 50-60 mm). However, even taxa with small adult size were preyed on at a low rate, and all cyprinids strongly selected pools, with creek chubs having minimal effect on habitat use. These results suggest that (1) the hydrologic regime has broad and pronounced effects on the colonization dynamics and abundance of invertebrates and fishes in headwater streams, and (2) cyprinid predation has weaker but variable effects on the abundance of stream organisms. Predation intensity varies (a) over short temporal scales, because of the dynamic nature of flow regime and the rapid colonizing ability but short post-spawning persistence of cyprinids, (b) over small spatial scales, because of increased abundance of cyprinids in pool vs. riffle habitats, (c) between invertebrate and vertebrate trophic levels because the creek chub is a relatively ineffective piscivore, and (d) between small and large fish because many minnows have a size refuge from creek chubs.
4134798|Accumulations of sunken drift macrophytes are known to stimulate high secondary production in submarine canyon heads, but the details of macroinvertebrate colonization of these subsidies are poorly known. I conducted a series of algal and macrofanual sampling programs and manipulative algal-placement experiments in different Monterey Canyon head sub-habitats and seasons from 1988 to 1991 to elucidate the dynamics of macroinvertebrate associations with sunken drift macrophytes, severe annual sediment-flushing events, and the physical and chemical changes associated with these agents of subsidy and disturbance. Conducting these investigations in such a highly disturbed and subsidized setting, i.e., with multiple niche axes, would enable novel insights into how biological communities are structured. Up to
10.2307/1942602|Increases in size inequalities with time in cohorts of plants have been attributed to two causes: (1) variation in the exponential relative growth rates (RGR) of plants and (2) asymmetry of competitive interactions, whereby large plants can more readily suppress the growth of smaller neighbors than vice versa. It follows, then, that species with a longer exponential growth phase should develop greater size inequality over time. And since asymmetry is thought to be greater when competition is for light than when it is for below-ground resources, competitive interactions should be more asymmetric and size inequality should increase more in response to competition in species whose morphology results in greater between-plant shading. I tested these two hypothesis in greenhouse studies of two annual species, Polygonum arenastrum and P. douglassii, which differ in the duration of exponential growth and the likelihood of between-plant shading as a result of differences in development and morphology. Polygonum arenastrum has a shorter exponential phase of growth because it switches from vegetative growth to reproduction earlier than P. douglassii. It also has a prostrate growth form, more diffuse branching, and smaller leaves than P. douglassii. There should therefore be less shading of one plant by another in P. arenastrum than in P. douglassii. Seedlings from wild-collected seeds were planted in monoculture arrays at four different densities. The plants were harvested at five dates up to 10 wks; growth and branching pattern were measured at each harvest. As expected, in populations of P. douglassii, the species with the longer exponential growth phase, greater size inequality developed over time. In the absence of intraspecific competition, RGR was independent of plant size and size hierarchies were quite permanent. In contrast, P. arenastrum exhibited a period of decelerating growth which resulted in a negative correlation between RGR and plant size, frequent reversals in the size rankings of individuals over time, and declining size inequality through time under noncompetitive conditions. At high densities the morphology and RGRs of plants were size dependent in both species. Large individuals were more branched, had longer branches, and had higher RGRs than small individuals, and these shape and growth-rate differences became more pronounced as competition intensified. Furthermore, the size-dependence of shape and RGR was stronger in P. douglassii at all densities, and became relatively more pronounced as density increased, compared with P. arenastrum. These results are consistent with the expectation of greater competitive asymmetry in the species whose morphology should have led to greater between-plant shading. Size inequality increased with competition in both species. However, contrary to expectation, it did not increase more as density increased in P. douglassii. Reasons for the discrepancy between the morphological, RGR, and size inequality responses of the two species to density are discussed. The link between size inequality and plant development and morphology is examined in light of the effects the latter may have on the size-dependence of RGRs and the asymmetries of competitive interactions.
10.2307/2657170|Mast-fruiting Dipterocarpaceae exhibit highly synchronous, interspecific seedfall at irregular, multiyear intervals. To investigate how the temporal pattern of seedfall affects dipterocarp seed and seedling survival, in both a logged and a primary lowland tropical forest, we planted Shorea stenoptera Burck seeds in the last three weeks of a 12-wk synchronous dipterocarp seedfall during a major community mast-fruiting event in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. As a result of commercial timber harvest of dipterocarp individuals eight years before, total dipterocarp seed production in the logged site was only 23% of that in the primary forest. At both sites, an average of 35 kg of seed was sown across a large area (1 km
23596743|Some forest plants adapt to shade by mixotrophy, i.e., they obtain carbon both from photosynthesis and from their root mycorrhizal fungi. Fully achlorophyllous species using exclusively fungal carbon (the so-called mycoheterotrophic plants) have repeatedly evolved from such mixotrophic ancestors. However, adaptations for this evolutionary transition, and the reasons why it has happened a limited number of times, remain unknown. We investigated this using achlorophyllous variants (i.e., albinos) spontaneously occurring in Cephalanthera damasonium, a mixotrophic orchid. In two populations, we compared albinos with co-occurring green individuals in situ. We investigated vegetative traits, namely, shoot phenology, dormancy, CO 2 and H 2 O leaf exchange, mycorrhizal colonization, degree of mycoheterotrophy (using 13 C abundance as a proxy), and susceptibility to pathogens and herbivores. We monitored seed production (in natural or experimental crosses) and seed germination. Albinos displayed (1) more frequent shoot drying at fruiting, possibly due to stomatal dysfunctions, (2) lower basal metabolism, (3) increased sensitivity to pathogens and herbivores, (4) higher dormancy and maladapted sprouting, and, probably due to the previous differences, (5) fewer seeds, with lower germination capacity. Over the growing season, green shoots shifted from using fungal carbon to an increasingly efficient photosynthesis at time of fruiting, when fungal colonization reached its minimum. Conversely, the lack of photosynthesis in fruiting albinos may contribute to carbon limitation, and to the above-mentioned trends. With a 10 3  fitness reduction, albinos failed a successful transition to mycoheterotrophy because some traits inherited from their green ancestors are maladaptive. Conversely, mycoheterotrophy requires at least degeneration of leaves and stomata, optimization of the temporal pattern of fungal colonization and shoot sprouting, and new defenses against pathogens and herbivores. Transition to mycoheterotrophy likely requires progressive, joint evolution of these traits, while a sudden loss of photosynthesis leads to unfit plants. We provide explanations for the evolutionary stability of mixotrophic nutrition and for the rarity of emergence of carbon sinks in mycorrhizal networks. More broadly, this may explain what prevents the emergence of fully heterotrophic taxa in the numerous other mixotrophic plant or algal lineages recently described.
10.2307/1942492|Seasonal patterns of decomposition and nutrient release from the major litterfall components were determined using litterbags in young (23-yr-old) and mature (180-yr-old) Abies amabilis stands in western Washington, USA. The time required for each litterfall component to decompose completely was estimated in both stands. Long-term organic matter and nutrient residence times in the forest floor were estimated using forest floor and aboveground litterfall masses. In addition, the effect of root turnover in the forest floor on estimates of organic matter and nutrient residence time was determined. Similar litter substrates lost mass at a significantly faster rate in the young than in the mature stand. An initial rapid mass loss (9-67%) for litter substrates during the winter months coincided with increased immobilization of nitrogen and calcium and mineralization of phosphorus, potassium, and magnesium. However, herb species and epiphytic lichen decomposition in both stands showed no immobilization of N, P, K, Ca, or Mg or increased mass in litterbags at all sampling dates. The remaining litter substrates showed no loss or gain in mass during summer and autumn, with continued immobilization of N and P, while K, Ca, and Mg levels remained the same or decreased. From 36 to 77% of the total 2-yr mass loss of all litter substrates occurred during the initial 4 mo. The various litter components required @?6-15 and 2-24 yr for 99% decomposition to occur in the young and mature stands, respectively. The addition of roots into the estimation of organic matter residence time (MRT) in the forest floor reduced the estimate by @?75% in both stands. The predicted turnover time of 1 yr's litterfall (11-12 yr) was very similar to the estimated residence time of total forest floor when roots were included in the calculations. The inclusion of roots in the estimation of forest floor MRT decreased the nutrient residence time for N by 74%, for P by 75%-86%, for K by 81-90%, for Ca by 52-55%, and for Mg by 66-85% in both stands. Addition of root nutrient input into estimates of forest floor nutrient MRT increased the annual turnover of forest floor nutrients from 1-2% to 4-16% in the young stand and from 1-4% to 4-8% in the mature stand. The element mobility series resulting from litterbag studies did not give the same pattern of mobility as obtained from the total forest floor with or without root input.
10.2307/1942505|Quantitative phenology and pre-dawn xylem pressure potentials (XPP) of an evergreen shrub, Ceanothus megacarpus, and a deciduous shrub, Salvia mellifera, were compared on pairs of plants in shared microsites in southern Californian chaparral for 2 yr. Shoot elongation of both species occurred at essentially the same time during both growing seasons. Leaf maturation also occurred at essentially the same time for both species during the 1977-1978 season, but commenced @?1 mo earlier on S. mellifera than on C. megacarpus during the 1978-1979 season. No substantial differences in phenology were found among leaves of C. megacarpus canopy, subcanopy, or short shoots. On S. mellifera, however, leaf maturation was more rapid and was completed earlier in the season on flowering canopy shoots than on nonflowering canopy and subcanopy shoots, and although no mature leaves on flowering canopy shoots persisted beyond June during either year, a substantial number of mature leaves on subcanopy shoots remained well into their second growing season. Leaf curling, associated with changes in XPP, was significant in both species, and allowed rapid adjustment of leaf area without the abscission or production of leaves. Flowering and seed production occurred early in the growing season for C. megacarpus and late in the growing season for S. mellifera. This difference in flowering phenology corresponded to the more rapid vegetative development of S. mellifera flowering canopy shoots. In both species subcanopy or short shoots made up a much larger fraction of the total number of shoots per plant, and consequently contributed relatively more to whole-plant leaf phenology and annual shoot production, than did canopy shoots. There were only subtle differences between species in the timing of increases in whole-plant mature leaf area (MLA). Maximum rates of increase of whole-plant MLA occurred in both species when soil temperature (ST) was @?13.5@?C and XPPs were @?-0.60 MPa, and these rates declined sharply at STs above 15@? and XPPs below -1.5 MPa. Ceanothus megacarpus and S. mellifera had nearly indistinguishable XPPs throughout both years. Leaf shedding by S. mellifera was more related to photoperiod and flowering than to low XPP, and was clearly not a successful drought-avoiding mechanism. Like some evergreen species, S. mellifera tolerated long periods of extremely low XPP. Important differences between the species were that over a 12-mo period the integrated total of MLA-days for S. mellifera was 73% of that for C. megacarpus, and leaves produced during the current growing season contributed 71% of the total MLA-days in S. mellifera and only 37% in C. megacarpus. The differences between the results of this study and several accepted generalizations regarding growth and water relations of deciduous and evergreen chaparral shrubs may be due to the observation of these growth forms in different microsites and the lack of truly quantitative phenological measurements in previous studies.
10.2307/2657237|How are the dynamics of the settlement of pelagic larvae of marine shore organisms into benthic habitats affected by larval production and mortality dynamics, and by environmental (wind and tidal) control of settler delivery? We examined the dynamics of reproduction of the pelagic-spawning fish Thalassoma bifasciatum from that perspective at San Blas, Caribbean Panama. During April-June 1993, 75% of females spawned each day, with mean output per female per day at about one-third the potential maximum. Output peaked several days before the new and full moon, when tides were high during the afternoon spawning period. Daily fluctuations in output were weakly correlated with light (+), swell (-), and onshore wind (-) on preceding days. Settler production (determined from otolith back calculations of settlers' fertilization dates) peaked during the wet season (May-November), when winds were light and variable, spawning-period tidal heights were moderate to low, and tidal flows were off-reef at night. These conditions correspond to when most settlement occurs. Settler production was minimal during the dry season (January-March), when onshore trade winds were strong and consistent, and tidal conditions were the reverse of those in the wet season. Settlement usually occurred in one variably timed pulse per lunar cycle, around the new moon. Variation in monthly settlement strength over 11 yr (1986-1996) was unrelated to onshore wind stress during either settler arrival or settler production. The daily dynamics of settlement were unrelated to the concurrent dynamics of wind or tides, or wind dynamics up to a week before settlement. Settler production was much less continuous than spawning. Wet season settler-production dynamics were unrelated to tidal dynamics, but (weakly) negatively related to onshore wind stress. Although the dynamics of settler production and settlement were similar, bouts of settler production were about twice as long as bouts of settlement. The average lunar patterns of settler production and observed spawning were similar (weakly bimodal). Settlers produced during different lunar phases differed in the length and variability of their pelagic larval durations (PLDs). Fish with different PLDs all tended to settle around the new moon. Weakly semilunar spawning may reflect effects of weak tidal influences on egg survivorship, or of environmental constraints on adults' spawning capacity that also limit spawning to well below the potential maximum. Dry season trade winds may produce the seasonal low of settlement by depressing spawning or forcing the onshore transport of eggs and larvae. If settlement is transport-dependent, weak variable winds may have little effect on currents during the wet season, or local geography may limit such effects; tidal dynamics may not affect wet-season settlement dynamics because small (<0.6 m) tides produce weak flows. Alternatively, settlement may not be dependent on transport mechanisms. Short-term settlement dynamics result from both the dynamics of larval survival (as most larvae have near-mean PLDs) and larvae delaying or advancing settlement to settle around the new moon. Larvae spawned at different lunar phases have different patterns of variation in their PLDs but achieve similar relative settlement success. Larvae with extended PLDs may not suffer low settlement success because the inevitable age-dependent decline in survival has smaller effects on relative settlement success than does large monthly variation in the survivorship of fish spawned during different lunar phases.
4539074|Many tree species that depend on scatter-hoarding animals for seed dispersal produce massive crops of large seeds at irregular intervals. Mast seeding and large seed size in these species have been explained as adaptations to increase animal dispersal and reduce predation. We studied how seed size and seed abundance simultaneously influenced seed dispersal and predation by scatter-hoarding rodents in the large-seeded rain forest tree Carapa procera (Meliaceae) in French Guiana. We individually tracked the fates of 3000 seeds, using remote video monitoring and thread-marking. Seed size was manipulated by broadly varying intraspecific seed mass, whereas effects of seed abundance were examined by tracking seeds in three seed-rich years and two seed-poor years. The hypotheses, that seed mass and seed abundance both enhance dispersal success and that seed abundance reinforces the effect of seed mass, were supported by the results. Most seeds were removed by the scatter-hoarding rodent red acouchy (Myoprocta acouchy) and subsequently were buried in scattered, single-seeded caches up to distances >100 m. Seeds that were not removed failed to establish seedlings. Seed removal was slower, pre-removal seed predation was greater, and seed dispersal was less far in seed-rich years than in seed-poor years, suggesting poorer dispersal under seed abundance. However, this was more than counter-balanced by a disproportionally greater survival of cached seeds in seed-rich years. The per capita probability of seed survival and seedling establishment was at least 4 1/2 times greater under seed abundance. Large seeds were removed faster, were more likely to be scatter-hoarded, and were dispersed farther away than smaller ones, resulting in a higher probability of seedling establishment for larger seeds. Size discrimination was greater under seed abundance, albeit only during seed removal. Overall, large seeds shed in rich years had the highest probability of seedling establishment. Hence, both larger seed size and greater seed abundance stimulate rodents to act more as dispersers and less as predators of seeds. We conclude that scatter-hoarding rodents can select for both large seed crops and large seeds, which may reinforce mast seeding.
10.2307/1943013|Many pterygote (winged) insects have secondarily become flightless; why has this occurred? In this paper I test for an association between the frequency of flightlessness and (1) environmental heterogeneity, (2) geographic variables, (3) gender, (4) alternate modes of migration, and (5) taxonomic variation. Various authors have predicted that decreased environmental heterogeneity will favor the evolution of flightlessness. This hypothesis is consistent with a number of studies on the variation of wing dimorphism and flightlessness and with data analyzed in the present paper on the relationship between habitat type and wing morph in the North American Orthoptera. The incidence of flightlessness is also exceptionally high in woodlands, deserts, on the ocean surface, in specific habitats on the seashore (dunes and rock crevices but not the foreshore), in aquatic habitats, in the winter months, in hymenopteran and termite nests, and among ectoparasites of endotherms and parasites of arthropods. It is low in habitats bordering rivers, streams, ponds, etc. and in arboreal habitats. Some of these habitats can be classified as persistent, but others cannot be so designated or are too vaguely defined. The incidence of flightlessness increases with altitude and latitude but, contrary to @'conventional@' wisdom, it is not exceptionally high on oceanic islands compared to mainland areas. Several authors have hypothesized that the clinal variation in flightlessness is a consequence of clinal variation in habitat persistence. Though the available data are consistent with this hypothesis, other factors such as impairment of flight by low temperatures cannot be rejected, though considered unlikely. Flightlessness is more frequent than expected by chance among parthenogenetic species and more frequent among females than males. Furthermore, there is a significant negative association between female mobility and flightlessness in males. I suggest that loss of flight is favored in females because it permits greater allocation of resources to egg production, but that flight is retained in males because it increases the probability of finding a mate. In some species alternate modes of migration, viz phoresy and ballooning, have evolved. Phoretic transport (i.e., via other animal species) may be important in those species in which it occurs, but it appears to have evolved relatively rarely. Among the Insecta ballooning occurs only in the larvae of Lepidoptera. Aptery (winglessness) is unusually frequent among Lepidoptera that eclose in the fall and winter months and live in woodlands and forests. I hypothesize that larval migration by ballooning, the large-scale spatiotemporal stability of woodlands, and the small-scale unpredictability of spring bud burst are primary factors favoring the evolution of flightlessness in these Lepidoptera. The mode of metamorphosis is correlated with the frequency of flightlessness; hemimetabolous and holometabolous insects are rarely flightless, while it is common among paurometabolous insects. Two factors that may favor such an association are differences in relative mobility of the larvae and niche shifts between the adult and larval stage. In the holometabolous insects taxonomic families with at least one flightless species have more species than those with only winged species. A possible explanation for this is that the occurrence of the appropriate ecological conditions favoring flightlessness in holometabolous insects and the requisite mutations are both very rare events.
10.2307/2937099|An important motivation for the study of variability in size and reproductive output in plant populations is its potential relation to natural selection. However, very few data are available to assess the genetic component of fitness-related traits in competing plant populations, or the differential performance of plant genotypes at different densities. To address these issues we conducted an experiment using 25 genotypes of a colonizing herbaceous annual, Polygonum pensylvanicum. These genotypes were randomly sampled from a natural population and cloned by axillary meristem enhancement. Cloned plants were grown in a glasshouse at three densities spanning the range encountered in the natural population (from individually grown to 850 individuals/m^2). The growth and fate of a total of 1400 individuals were followed over the course of a 10-wk growing period. Variability in size and reproductive output (as measured by the coefficient of variation of vegetative and reproductive dry mass) increased with density. Early plant size measures were positively correlated with subsequent relative growth rates in dense populations, but not among individually grown plants. These observations indicate the likely importance of asymmetric or @'one-sided@' competition in the dense populations. The proportion of variance in final size and reproduction explained by genotype was generally higher for individually grown plants than for plants grown under crowded conditions. We suggest that this may result from asymmetric competitive interactions working to amplify early size differences resulting primarily from environmental and developmental @'noise.@' The same genotypes were not superior across all densities. Qualitative (@'cross-over@') interactions for fitness-related characters were observed in comparing genotype performance between the individually grown vs. the low and high density treatments. Genotypes with an early size advantage were predictably favored in dense populations, but the genetic correlation between early and final performance was weaker among individually grown plants. In sum, density increased relative variation in fitness correlates such as reproductive biomass, but decreased the heritability of these traits. The response of selection is the product of these two opposing forces. Applying our results to some elementary quantitative genetic models suggests that the potential for natural selection would increase with population density, while the potential for genetic drift would decrease. Such patterns may be of particular evolutionary importance in colonizing annuals, whose life histories imply an alternate exposure of genotypes to high and low densities.
10.2307/1942309|A 1960-71 study of populations of color-banded ant-following antbirds of three species on a tropical-forested lowland reserve, Barro Colorado Island, showed that the small species (Spotted Antbird, Hylophylax naevioides) remained stable at about 20 pairs/km^2. A medium-sized species, the Bicolored Antbird (Gymnopithys bicolor), decreased from about 3 pairs to 1.5 pairs/km^2. A large species, the Ocellated Antbird (Phaenostictus mcleannani), declined from 1.5 pairs/km^2 to near extinction--only one female remained in early 1971. Two of three other species that regularly follow army ants showed relatively stable populations, but a third large species (Barred Woodcreeper, Dendrocolaptes certhia) declined from two pairs to local extinction. Prior to 1960 a very large ground-cuckoo that follows ants had already become extinct there. Thus, the three largest of the seven original species that regularly followed ants were gone or nearly gone by 1970. The decrease in numbers of regular ant-following birds was not made up by increases in occasional followers. Detailed studies of antbirds showed no clear reasons for declines, except that annual mortalities of adults were high in Ocellated Antbirds (about 30%) compared to Spotted Antbirds (15%-17%) and nest losses perhaps higher in the former (96% compared to 91%). Nest mortalities were slightly lower (88%) and adult mortalities intermediate (about 25%) in Bicolored Antbirds. Female Ocellated Antbirds had higher mortalities than males. The antbirds renest repeatedly during long nesting seasons, up to 14 times per year for Ocellated Antbirds. However, to replace females of this species under Barro Colorado conditions 19 nestings per year would be needed. Concurrent listing of all birds of the island showed that 45 species of breeding birds, 22% of the avifauna present when the island was made a reserve, had disappeared by 1970. No new species replaced them. Of the lost species 13 are forest birds, in danger if forests are cut elsewhere. The other species, second-growth and forest-edge birds, have been crowded out by growth of the forest. Loss of species from this tropical reserve, especially the part apparently caused by the small size and isolation of the reserve, poses problems for conservation and ecological studies of tropical biotas. It is suggested that large future reserves have corridor zones to each other, that is, that intensive human use not preempt too much area nor interrupt immigration of animals or plants from one refuge to another.
23047053|Bergmann's rule, which proposes a heat-balance explanation for the observed latitudinal gradient of increasing animal body size with increasing latitude, has dominated the study of geographic patterns in animal size since it was first proposed in 1847. Several critical reviews have determined that as many as half of the species examined do not fit the predictions of Bergmann's rule. We have proposed an alternative hypothesis for geographic variation in body size based on food availability, as regulated by the net primary production (NPP) of plants, specifically NPP during the growing season, or eNPP (ecologically and evolutionarily relevant NPP). Our hypothesis, "the eNPP rule," is independent of latitude and predicts both spatial and temporal variation in body size, as well as in total population biomass, population growth rates, individual health, and life history traits of animals, including humans, wherever eNPP varies across appropriate scales of space or time. In the context of a revised interpretation of the global patterns of NPP and eNPP, we predict contrasting latitudinal correlations with body size in three distinct latitudinal zones. The eNPP rule explains body-size patterns that are consistent with Bergmann's rule, as well as two distinct types of contradictions of Bergmann's rule: the lack of latitudinal patterns within the tropics, and the decline in body size above approximately 60 latitude. Both types of contradictions of Bergmann's rule are consistent with the eNPP rule, as are a wide range of other phenomena.
10.2307/1942454|Fruit production and patterns of seed dispersal by birds were studied at two elevations in the mediterranean scrublands of southern Spain. Fleshy-fruit-producing species represent a very prominent fraction of woody plants in terms of cover (57-76%) and species number (49-66%). Fruit production occurs year round in the lowland site but is confined to August-February upslope. Ripe fruits are most abundant (>10^5 ripe fruits/ha) in November-December. Fruit abundance fluctuates widely between years at the highland locality but only slightly in the lowlands. In both communities, the dominant species ripen fruits in autumn-winter, display the highest within-plant fruit densities, and tend to have the most lipid-rich fruits. Fruits differ in pulp nutritive value, seediness, and relative amount of pulp among species but are remarkably uniform in size (mostly 5-10 mm transverse diameter). Two-thirds of the passerine species at each site eat some fruit. Of these species, 69% (highland) and 26% (lowland) are resident @'fruit predators,@' feeding on either pulp or seeds alone, and damaging the seeds when eating pulp and seeds together. The rest are overwintering or migratory seed dispersers that ingest whole fruits without damaging seeds. Seed dispersers are most common in late autumn-winter, coincident with the peak in fruit abundance and the predominance of lipid-rich fruits. A few small (12-18 g body mass) disperser species (Erithacus rubecula, Sylvia atricapilla, Sylvia melanocephala) account for most of the frugivory at each site and disperse the majority of seeds. Fruit predators either are relatively scare or eat fruits infrequently, or fruits represent a negligible fraction of their diets. Fruit removal was very high (89-100% of crops) among species with fruits smaller than the gape width of the abundant small-sized dispersers, and very low among species with fruits larger than gape width. Removal success was negatively correlated with fruit size among species having fruits smaller than dominant dispersers' gape width. No relation has been found between removal success and fruit quality, fruiting time, ripening rate, or within-plant fruit density. The principal dispersers at each site ate mainly the most nutritious fruits, although not to the exclusion of less nutritious fruits. Substantial pairwise plant-bird reciprocity is not common. (The avian species disperses a substantial fraction of a plant's seeds, which in turn provide the bulk of the bird's energy supply.) Current bird-plant seed dispersal interactions are the result of evolutionary, climatic, and geographical factors in the Mediterranean. Mutualistic congruency largely is, in these cases, an epiphenomenon of these factors, not resulting necessarily from mutual adaptations (coevolution). It is suggested that actual coevolution involving a smaller set of bird and plant species may facilitate the persistence of noncoevolving (or very slowly coevolving) plant species, thus favoring the existence of a chronic @'anachronism load@' (with regard to dispersal) in the plant community.
10.2307/2937247|The forests of Maryland have been mapped at a scale of 1:250 000 on the basis of 15 regional associations: (1) tamarack, (2) bald cypress, (3) hemlock-yellow birch-black birch, (4) river birch-sycamore (5) sycamore-green ash-box elder-silver maple, (6) shingle oak, (7) chestnut oak-post oak-blackjack oak, (8) chestnut oak-bear oak, (9) chestnut oak, (10) loblolly pine, (11) basket oak-loblolly pine, (12) willow oak-loblolly pine, (13) basket oak, (14) sugar maple-basswood, and (15) tulip poplar. The associations differ from each other in species composition and in abundances of species common to many associations. Each was identified in the field by the presence of relatively few common discontinuous tree species referred to as "characteristic species." Correlations between forest associations and geologic, topographic, and soils units mapped at a similar scale suggest that patterns of available water are important in controlling distribution of woody species throughout Maryland.
40385231|Vertebrate carrion decomposition and nutrient cycling have both direct and indirect effects on the soil properties, fauna, and flora associated with an animal's carcass. While few comprehensive quantitative studies have been undertaken, those that have show considerable variability in decomposition processes and rates, their regulating variables, and the resultant ecosystem effects. In this two-part study, decomposition rates of vertebrate species were measured in a semiarid, shrub-steppe environment (Wyoming, USA). First, decomposition loss rates of mass, energy, and nutrients were measured for rat carcasses (Rattus norvegicus) in four seasons and two microsites (surface and underground burrows). Decomposition rates varied significantly between microsites (burrow > surface in spring and summer) and among seasons (spring > summer > autumn  winter), with mass loss amounts linearly correlated with ambient air temperatures. Energy and nutrient losses were related to phased carcass organ/tissue losses, with energy, K, Na, N, and S being lost more quickly than skeletal components (P, Mg, Ca). Overall, the nutrient loss sequence was K = Na > N = S > P = Mg > Ca. Carcass quality (N concentration) declined through time as a function of decay stage. Second, decomposition rates of 10 vertebrate species (mule deer [Odocoileus hemionus], dog [Canis familiaris], white-tailed jackrabbit [Lepus townsendii], Uinta ground squirrel [Spermophilus armatus], least chipmunk [Tamias minimus], deer mouse [Peromyscus maniculatus], Magpie [Pica hudsonia], Sage Sparrow [Amphispiza belli], terrestrial garter snake [Thamnophis elegans], and northern leopard frog [Lithobates pipiens]) were measured with vertebrate scavengers present or absent. Mass loss rates varied among species and were generally faster in the presence of scavengers. Carcass body mass, N content, or labile/recalcitrant fractions did not correlate with decomposition rate, though surface area to volume ratios of mammal carcasses were positively correlated with wet-mass decomposition rate. Nutrient measures of sub-carcass soils showed soil N, P, and Na increased during decomposition. Increased soil nutrient amounts represented up to 15.6% of the available carcass N, 28.8% of carcass P, and 28.7% of carcass Na. At a landscape scale in the shrubsteppe ecosystem, carrion decomposition constituted <1% of the nutrient-cycling budget but contributed significantly to localized soil nutrient dynamics.
10.2307/1942587|Storage and fluxes on N, P, Ca, Mg, and K in aboveground detritus were measured in six contrasting lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta ssp. latifolia) stands in southeastern Wyoming. Litterfall was predominantly leaves (67-80%) in 80-100 yr old stands, while woody litter was more important in an older stand (240 yr old). Leaf litter nutrient concentrations were very low compared with other pine forests, particularly for N (0.40% dry mass). Dry mass loss from decomposing leaf litter was slow (15%/yr in first 2 yr), and summer rates did not differ significantly from winter rates beneath the insulating snowpack. Significant amounts of N, P, and Ca were added to decomposing leaves during the first winter, and N and Ca addition continued for 2 yr. Potassium and magnesium were rapidly lost from decomposing leaves. Rates of mass and nutrient loss from decomposing bark, twigs, and cones were comparable to those observed in other studies of temperate-zone forests. Mass loss from decaying bole wood appeared to be exponential through 40 yr, with an average decay coefficient (k) of 0.016, which is comparable to that in other cold temperate forests. Nitrogen content of decaying boles doubled between 30 and 55 yr following tree death, while smaller additions of P, Ca, K, and Mg also were noted. Relatively large accumulations of organic matter and nutrients were observed in the forest floor, leading to very high steady-state residence times for dry mass (mean = 18 yr), N (54 yr), P (39 yr), Ca (35 yr), Mg (21 yr), and K (18 yr). Deadfall contributed by the present forest generation was a minor component of the aboveground detritus except in an old-age stand and in a dense, self-thinning forest site. In contrast, dead wood inherited from the previous forest generation (killed by fire) was a major detrital storage component, exceeding forest floor mass by several-fold in 80-100 yr old stands. High nutrient immobilization in the dead wood led to storage values which were similar to those of the forest floor in these stands.
27646081|Riparian forests are known to be floristically diverse and influenced by multiscale phenomena, yet few studies have explicitly compared how these factors contribute to various aspects of riparian plant diversity. We analyzed woody riparian plant species and environmental data from four western Oregon watersheds distributed across a wide climate-driven productivity gradient at three scales (40-m2 sample plots [alpha diversity], 1-ha plots, and species pools from 16 1-ha plots in each watershed) to compare three hypotheses of control on species diversity: (1) local control, (2) direct climatic control, and (3) indirect climatic control. We used a process model (3-PG) to model gross primary productivity (GPP) as a functional climate index across our study area. We performed multiple linear regression to determine the best predictors of alpha (sample-plot scale) diversity, compositional change within riparian forests (beta diversity), and hectare-scale diversity and used path analysis to explore hypothesized causal linkages between climate and other factors and species diversity. We also analyzed a companion data set of gap and forest environments from a subset of the same sites to determine the influence of disturbance on species diversity across the gradient. We found evidence for strong spatial patterning in woody plant richness consistent with indirect climatic control on woody plant richness. Climate (GPP) showed negative relationships with alpha diversity and hectare richness of trees, shrubs, and woody plant species and was the most commonly selected explanatory variable in regression analyses. GPP and Rubus spectabilis cover increased from the least to most productive climates while understory light and moisture heterogeneity across the riparian area decreased. These environmental changes coincided with declines in alpha, beta, and hectare-scale diversity. Disturbance gaps yielded higher richness at most sites, but differences in species richness between gap and forest sample plots did not increase at high levels of GPP, as hypothesized. This study points toward an integrated conceptual model whereby regional and landscape scale controls such as climate and watershed position complement and interact with local controls (i.e., vegetation structure, environmental gradients) to jointly govern woody plant diversity in riparian forests.
23596750|Increasing grazing pressure and climate change affect nitrogen (N) dynamics of grassland ecosystems in the Eurasian steppe belt with unclear consequences for future delivery of essential services such as forage production, C sequestration, and diversity conservation. The identification of key processes responsive to grazing is crucial to optimize grassland management. In this comprehensive case study of a Chinese typical steppe, we present an indepth analysis of grazing effects on N dynamics, including the balance of N gains and losses, and N cycling. N pools and fluxes were simultaneously quantified on three grassland sites of different long-term grazing intensities. Dust deposition, wind erosion, and wet deposition were the predominant but most variable processes contributing to N losses and gains. Heavy grazing increased the risk of N losses by wind erosion. Hay-making and sheep excrement export to folds during nighttime keeping were important pathways of N losses from grassland sites. Compared to these fluxes, gaseous N losses (N 2 O, NO, N 2 , and NH 3 ) and N losses via export of sheep live mass and wool were of minor relevance. Our N balance calculation indicated mean annual net N losses of 0.9  0.8 g N/m2 (mean  SD) at the heavily grazed site, whereas the long-term ungrazed site was an N sink receiving mean annual inputs of 1.8  1.1 g N/m 2 , mainly due to dust deposition. Heavy grazing reduced pool sizes of topsoil organic N, above- and belowground biomass, and N fluxes with regard to plant N uptake, decomposition, gross microbial N turnover, and immobilization. Most N-related processes were more intensive in seasons of higher water availability, indicating complex interactions between land use intensity and climate variability. The projected increase of atmospheric N depositions and changes in rainfall pattern imposed by land use change will likely affect N sinksource pathways and N flux dynamics, indicating high potential impact on grassland ecosystem functions. Land use practices will be increasingly important for the management of N dynamics in Chinese typical steppe and, therefore, must be considered as key component to maintain, restore or optimize ecosystem services.
10.2307/2937290|The detritus standing crop, microbial respiration, and macroinvertebrate biomass were examined in monthly samples from the riffle sections of a first-order woodland stream. Total detritus was remarkably constant; the average (with 95% CL) ash-free dry mass standing crop was 426.4 + 85.9 g/m^2 over the 14 mo of the study. Throughout the year benthic detritus was dominated by fine particulate detritus (<1 mm), which made up 68.9% of the total ash-free dry mass. Woody debris made up 8%, whole leaves 3.5%, and leaf fragments and other coarse particulate detritus accounted for 19.7% of the total standing crop. Decreases in standing crop were attributable to microbial respiration, macroinvertebrate assimilation, and downstream export. Microbial respiration annually removed 150% of the average standing crop, with the major effect on the smallest particle size category. Macroinvertebrate assimilation, defined as the sum of respiration and growth, removed 11.6% of the detritus standing crop annually. Shredders accounted for 20% of total animal assimilation, with the remaining 80% attributable to collectors and grazers. Based on monthly changes, it appears that total detritus standing crop is the result of the past discharge regime, which determines the overall amount of detritus present, and the rate of biological (microbial and invertebrate) processes, which determine the size and quality of the detritus particles. This suggests that detritus in streams, while strongly affected by both biotic and abiotic factors, may be in equilibrium within physical and biological constraints such that an annual steady-state system exists, similar to that for soil systems.
10.2307/1942340|The macrobenthos of Moreton Bay is diverse, with 355 species collected from 400 dredged stations. Many of these species are distributed throughout the Indo-West-Pacific area, others have an Australian distribution (possibly some may also occur in the northern hemisphere), and others are known as yet only from Moreton Bay. The occurrence of the richest sites near the edges of the bay can be attributed to either favorable hydrographic-sedimentary conditions or to the location of these sites on the periphery of areas worked by prawn trawlers. Infrequently occurring species dominate the epifauna, and frequently occurring species dominate the infauna. Neither the infrequent species nor the four most frequent species show seasonal changes, but some seasonal change is evident in other species. Species occurring in more than eight sites usually showed a distribution pattern, but species patterns could not, by inspection, be classified into group patterns. By limiting consideration to the 32 commonest species six somewhat uncertain groups could be recognized related to substratum. Computer analyses were attempted involving successively: (1) reduction of data (species occurring infrequently were eliminated; correlation coefficients and non-metric coefficients between pairs of the remainder were computed, and species never appearing above an arbitrary limit were excluded); (2) clumping of sites (eight meaningful site patterns were derived by using clumps of contiguous sites, which is equivalent to increasing the @'quadrat size@' and thus increasing the frequency of coincidences); (3) defining species-groups (the above site pattern was used, and additional species were included); and (4) establishing site-group species-group coincidences (this involved a double standardization and choice of the level of classification of species-group (six) which appeared to give optimal clarity). Site-groups are not uniquely defined by the presence of a species-group which occurs nowhere else; instead, differences between site-groups are quantitative. The site-groups conform to a topographical pattern related to a complex including hydrographic and sedimentary factors and possible human activity. The species-groups are generally large and ill-defined. Results are compared with more classical studies of benthic communities, and a distinction is here made between constant and faithful species.
20787452|Understanding and predicting changes in the abundance of natural populations is a central goal of ecology. These changes are influenced by a variety of exogenous processes (weather, floods, fire); variation in these processes leads to variation in vital rates (survival, fecundity) that may be positively or negatively correlated across the life cycle. We used 20 years of data and a hierarchical Bayesian model to estimate vital rates and their covariation in an endangered plant, Dicerandra frutescens ssp. frutescens (Lamiaceae), as a function of time since fire and random year effects. Germination and the number of flowering branches declined with time since fire, and all plants were increasingly likely to become nonreproductive with time since fire. Time since fire had negative effects on survival of seedlings, vegetative plants, and small flowering plants, and positive effects on survival of medium and large flowering plants. Model comparison strongly supported inclusion of time-since-fire effects and weakly supported inclusion of year effects influencing all vital rates ("model-wide" year effects). We used samples from the joint posterior distribution of model parameters to simulate population dynamics as a function of fire regime and year-to-year environmental variation. These simulations suggest that populations of Dicerandra frutescens ssp. frutescens are least likely to go extinct if the average time between fires is 24-30 years. The design of the simulations allowed us to distinguish variation in stochastic population growth associated with process variability (fire, year effects, and demographic stochasticity) from variation associated with parameter uncertainty (finite amounts of data). Even with 20 years of data, half or more of the uncertainty in population growth rates was due to parameter uncertainty. This hierarchical Bayesian population viability analysis illustrates a general analytical framework for (1) estimating vital rates as a function of an exogenous environmental factor, (2) accounting for covariation among vital rates, and (3) simulating population dynamics as a function of stochastic environmental processes while taking into account uncertainty about their effects. We discuss future areas of development for this approach.
10.2307/1942395|Small mammals were live trapped on four grids in the taiga woods near Fairbanks, Alaska. Populations were censused at 2-wk intervals during the snow-free months and 4-wk intervals when snow was on the ground. One Microtus oeconomus population reached a peak of 73-83 animals/ha in 1969. Numbers declined over winter and no Microtus were captured until 1972 when the population density began to increase. A sympatric population of Clethrionomys rutilus did not show a 3-4 yr cycle and reached densities of 52-62 animals/ha in the autumn of each year of the study. Live trap survival data and sumilatneous climatological data indicate that overwinter survival was high for both species. Survival was good for Microtus @V @V, while Clethrionomys @V @V had several periods of poor survival. In @M @M, periods of low survival occurred during population increase and high density. These periods of low survival did not occur at the same time in both species. Nestling survival was poor in both microtines during population increase in 1969, and remained low for the whole breeding season for Microtus. Both species experienced weight losses during late summer and fall periods. Live trapping indicated that this decrease was due to individual weight losses that were as great as 35% over a 3-mo period. The C. rutilus population in the Fairbanks area had a broad niche in that it was found in many habitat types and morphological, physiological and ecological characteristics were variable. The M. oeconomus population, on the other hand, had a narrower niche and was more specialized than the C. rutilus population. It is hypothesized that niche breadth and variation in characteristics of the species are a determining factor for microtine cycling. Cyclic behavior should not be thought of as a product of latitude, or a universal characteristic of small microtines, but as an adaptation to a less variable niche.
10.2307/1948497|The phenology of marked Hydrophyllum plants in five permanent 1-m^2 plots in Brownfield Woods near Urbana, Ill., was observed from March 1966 through August 1966 and from June 1967 through July 1968. The first-year plant which appears above the soil surface in early spring persists during the entire summer under the closed canopy with two to four erect, solid-colored, palmately shaped leaves. In autumn, mottled, palmately shaped leaves are formed which then overwinter in the form of a basal rosette. The upright, first-year leaves die back with the advent of heavy frosts. The plants break dormancy in early spring with subsequent formation of a large basal rosette of mottled, pinnately shaped leaves. As the forest canopy closes, solid-colored, palmately shaped leaves and an erect stem are formed. Floral buds soon appear. Flowering and seed set take place under a closed canopy with plant senescence occurring approximately 2 months after canopy closure. Carbohydrates are the major form of food reserves (82% of ovendry weight) in Hydrophyllum seed. At least a year is needed after seed dispersal before germination. Accumulated degree-hours and the floral bud and flowering stages are closely related in Hydrophyllum. Low temperatures are important in rosette formation in both greenhouse and field plants, but photoperiod apparently is not important if temperatures remain moderate. Plants will not flower unless they first develop a basal rosette. Although only a relatively short vernalization period is essential, longer periods of low temperature will decrease the length of time needed to flower after the plants have broken dormancy. Floral buds appeared in photoperiods ranging from less than 12 to over 13.5 hr, but longer photoperiods shortened the time interval between breaking dormancy and floral bud initiation. Hydrophyllum is adapted photosynthetically to canopy closure by producing different types of leaves for different light regimes. Plants with only solid-colored, palmately shaped leaves (first-year stage and seed-set stage) are present only under closed canopy conditions Light-compensation point of these plants is 60-80 ft-c, and light-saturation intensity is approximately 700 ft-c. their maximum net photosynthetic rates are about 2.4 mg CO"2/dm^2 per hour. Mottled, pinnately shaped leaves are present on second-year vegetative plants which grow under an open, spring canopy. These plants have a light-compensation point of 100 ft-c and light-saturation intensity of 2,500 ft-c. Their net photosynthetic rate at light saturation is 8.5 mg CO"2/dm^2 per hour. Flowering plants, which occur under a closed canopy and usually have both types of leaves, have net photosynthetic rates and light-saturation intensities at intermediate levels between the solid-colored and mottled groups of plants. All phenological stages except the seed-set stage demonstrated small but significant decreases in photosynthesis with increasing temperatures in the 15@?-27@?C range.
4539058|This paper integrates recent efforts to map the distribution of biomes for the late Quaternary with the detailed evidence that plant species have responded individualistically to climate change at millennial timescales. Using a fossil-pollen data set of over 700 sites, we review late-Quaternary vegetation history in northern and eastern North America across levels of ecological organization from individual taxa to biomes, and apply the insights gained from this review to critically examine the biome maps generated from the pollen data. Higher-order features of the vegetation (e.g., plant associations, physiognomy) emerge from individualistic responses of plant taxa to climate change, and different representations of vegetation history reveal different aspects of vegetation dynamics. Vegetation distribution and composition were relatively stable during full-glacial times (21 000-17 000 yr BP) [calendar years] and during the mid- to late Holocene (7000-500 yr BP), but changed rapidly during the late-glacial period and early Holocene (16 000-8 000 yr BP) and after 500 yr BP. Shifts in plant taxon distributions were characterized by individualistic changes in population abundances and ranges and included large east-west shifts in distribution in addition to the northward redistribution of most taxa. Modern associations such as Fagus-Tsuga and Picea-Alnus-Betula date to the early Holocene, whereas other associations common to the late-glacial period (e.g., Picea-Cyperaceae-Fraxinus-Ostrya/Carpinus) no longer exist. Biomes are dynamic entities that have changed in distribution, composition, and structure over time. The late-Pleistocene suite of biomes is distinct from those that grew during the Holocene. The pollen-based biome reconstructions are able to capture the major features of late-Quaternary vegetation but downplay the magnitude and variety of vegetational responses to climate change by (1) limiting apparent land-cover change to ecotones, (2) masking internal variations in biome composition, and (3) obscuring the range shifts and changes in abundance among individual taxa. The compositional and structural differences between full-glacial and recent biomes of the same type are similar to or greater than the spatial heterogeneity in the composition and structure of present-day biomes. This spatial and temporal heterogeneity allows biome maps to accommodate individualistic behavior among species but masks climatically important variations in taxonomic composition as well as structural differences between modern biomes and their ancient counterparts.
10.2307/1943027|A steady-state numerical model has been developed for simulating vertical profiles of the concentrations of organic matter, pyritic sulfur, dissolved oxygen, and the carbon isotope composition of organic matter in marsh sediments.In the model organic matter enters the sediment via sedimentation, belowground production of roots, and chemoautotrophic fixation of interstitial CO"2 associated with pyrite oxidation. Pyrite is formed by sulfate reduction and consumed by oxidation with dissolved oxygen in the interstitial water. Exchanges of organic matter, carbon isotopes, pyrite, and dissolved oxygen between the sediment and surface environment occur via fiddler crab bioturbation. Aeration of the sediment is caused by diffusion of oxygen into the interstitial water from air cavities assumed to be present in roots and in desaturated sediment pores formed in the upper part of the sediment by drainage and/or evapotranspiration. Sensitivity experiments with the model suggest that the accumulation of pyrite and organic matter in marsh sediments is governed in large part by the turnover time of roots and by the mean diameter of roots. The isotopic composition of the sediment was most sensitive to the rate of belowground production and to a lesser extent to the intensity of fiddler crab bioturbation. The model also indicated that fiddler crab burrowing can account for the observed isotope composition of creekbank sediments but not back (mid) marsh sediment. In both back and creekbank marshes, intense aeration of the sediment by roots is required to prevent the buildup of pyrite to unrealistically high concentrations at depth.
40385228|Most plant and animal populations have substantial interannual variability in survival, growth rate, and fecundity. They also exhibit substantial variability among individuals in traits such as size, age, condition, and disease status that have large impacts on individual fates and consequently on the future of the population. We present here methods for constructing and analyzing a stochastic integral projection model (IPM) incorporating both of these forms of variability, illustrated through a case study of the monocarpic thistle Carlina vulgaris. We show how model construction can exploit the close correspondence between stochastic IPMs and statistical analysis of trait-fate relationships in a "mixed" or "hierarchical" models framework. This correspondence means that IPMs can be parameterized straightforwardly from data using established statistical techniques and software (vs. the largely ad hoc methods for stochastic matrix models), properly accounting for sampling error and between-year sample size variation and with vastly fewer parameters than a conventional stochastic matrix model. We show that the many tools available for analyzing stochastic matrix models (such as stochastic growth rate, $\lambda _s$, small variance approximations, elasticity/sensitivity analysis, and life table response experiment [LTRE] analysis) can be used for IPMs, and we give computational formulas for elasticity/sensitivity analyses. We develop evolutionary analyses based on the connection between growth rate sensitivity and selection gradients and present a new method using techniques from functional data analysis to study the evolution of function-valued traits such as size-dependent flowering probability. For Carlina we found consistent selection against variability in both state-specific transition rates and the fitted functions describing state dependence in demographic rates. For most of the regression parameters defining the IPM there was also selection against temporal variance; however, in some cases the effects of nonlinear averaging were big enough to favor increased temporal variation. The LTRE analysis identified year-to-year variation in survival as the dominant factor in population growth variability. Evolutionary analysis of flowering strategy showed that the entire functional relationship between plant size and flowering probability is at or near an evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) shaped by the size-specific trade-off between the benefit (fecundity) and cost (mortality) of flowering in a temporally varying environment.
10.2307/2937128|For 3 yr we studied the reproductive responses of desert rodents in the Owens Valley of eastern California (average annual precipitation 14 cm): four nocturnal heteromyids--the kangaroo rats Dipodomys microps and D. merriami and the pocket mice Perognathus formosus and P. longimembris--and one diurnal sciurid, the antelope ground squirrel, Ammospermophilus leucurus. Reproductive status was assessed by autopsies of adults trapped at approximately monthly intervals. Reproduction differed conspicuously among the five species. Our analysis illustrates effects of body size, phylogenetic association, and adaptation to the desert environment upon reproductive performances and associated life-history parameters. Most breeding occurs in late winter and early spring. Winter rains cause a series of pulses in vegetation growth and an attendant increase in availability of water in food plants, which contribute to rodent reproduction. Among the four heteromyids, onset of breeding is sequential according to body size, with the largest first. Pocket mice hibernate (P. formosus typically 3@2 mo, P. longimembris 6@2 mo), which restricts their breeding season compared to that of Dipodomys, but breeding normally begins following hibernation. The males of all species precede females in reproductive readiness; sperm production begins 1@2 to 2 mo before mating begins. Some male D. merriami remain spermatogenic throughout the year, and the mating season of this species is the longest (typically 2@2 mo) and most variable of any of the species. D. merriami typically produces only two young, which are weaned in just less than 3 wk. It can breed repeatedly under favorable conditions and is the only species in which we observed reproductive maturity of both male and female juveniles in the season of birth. D. merriami has the highest annual reproductive potential of any of the five species studied. D. microps, although larger than D. merriami and sharing similar traits of small litter size and rapid growth, has a more restricted mating season (typically 1@2 mo), but its breeding success generally exceeds that of D. merriami. The diet of saltbush leaves consumed by D. microps is atypical within this generally granivorous rodent family. Saltbush is a perennial shrub with highly predictable spring growth of leaves that are used by lactating mothers and developing young. Consequently the breeding season of D. microps is less variable and shorter than that of D. merriami. D. microps typically produces one litter per year and the juveniles typically do not mature sexually in the season of their birth. Due to their small size, seasonal dormancy, and restricted reproductive season, pocket mice are more prone to reproductive failure than are Dipodomys. We observed a complete reproductive failure in both species of Perognathus in a year when winter-spring temperature was below average and precipitation only 47% normal. Perognathus have larger litter size (@?5 young) than Dipodomys. Consequently, the total annual reproductive potential of Perognathus is close to that of Dipodomys. The relative energy investment and attendant risks for production of a given litter are considerably greater in Perognathus than in Dipodomys, particularly in P. longimembris, which is at the lower limit of body size in rodents. Nonetheless both species of Perognathus have the potential for breeding twice inan unusually favorable year. The pattern of reproduction of the marmotine sciurid A. leucurus contrasts sharply with that of heteromyids. It breeds only once a year, at a fixed time and with a mating season that lasts only 2 wk. Litter size is larger (average 8 or 9) and more variable (range 5-14) than that of any of the heteromyids. Growth and development are slow: 8 wk to weaningin contrast to <3 wk in the heteromyids. The breeding strategy of A. leucurus differs quantitatively from that of other marmotine rodents; it remains homeothermic throughout the year, never hibernates, and has one of the largest litter sizes and slowest growth rates of any sciurid. We suggest that Dipodomys and Ammospermophilus can reproduce when annual precipitation is as low as one standard deviation below the mean, whereas Perognathus generally require more precipitation for successful reproduction due to the short available time between the end of hibernation and the onset of summer drought. The five species differ in year-to-year flexibility in response to variable food supply. Dipodomys show little variation in litter size, but adjust frequency of reproduction and time for maturation of young. Perognathus have a greater range of potential litter size and less potential for adjusting frequency of litters. For A. leucurus frequency is fixed but litter size is highly adjustable; at early stages (ovulation, fertilization, implantation) it can be high, and later adjusted downward during gestation by resorption of of embryos and during lactation by nestling attrition. Dipodomys and Ammospermophilus represent alternative strategies of reproductive timing and flexibility, and each responds to environmental seasonality and unpredictability on a different time scale. D. merriami is a @'pulse matcher@'; it responds directly and quickly to the occurrence of pulses of food production. A leucurus is a @'pulse averager@'; its slow and prolonged reproductive effort is programmed to match the historical probability distribution of precipitation and food production. Despite the diversity of reproductive tactics in the five species, they are all long-lived and maintain relativley stable population levels, which is critical not only to reproduction itself but to survival between successive breeding opportunities in a desert environment.
10.2307/2937115|Stage-classified matrix models are important analytical and theoretical tools for the study of population dynamics; in particular, these models may be appropriate for populations in which survivorship and fecundity are dependent on size or developmental stage, populations in which the age of individuals is difficult to determine, and populations in which there are multiple types of newborns. Nevertheless, methods for analyzing the implications of a population's stage-transition matrix have been limited in comparison to methods available for age-structured models (life tables or Leslie matrices). In this paper we show that all of the standard age-based measures of life history traits can be derived from a stage-transition model. By decomposing the transition matrix into separate birth, survival, and fission matrices we derive simple, direct formulas for age-based life history traits such as the discrete survivorship function, l"x, maternity function, f"x, mean age at maturity, and net reproductive rate, R"o, and also population parameters, including the stable age distribution, age-specific reproductive value, and generation time. These provide a common set of parameters for comparing age-structured and stage-structured populations or comparing populations with differently structured life cycles. In addition, we define four measures of age and life-span that summarize the relationship between stage and age in a stage-structured population: age distribution and mean age of residence for each stage class, expected remaining life-span for individuals in each stage class, and total life-span conditional on reaching a given stage class. We illustrate the use of our methods to address specific ecological questions by applying them to several previously published demographic data sets. These questions include: (1) what are the demographic effects of crowding on the tropical palm Astrocaryum mexicanum?; (2) how important is the initial rosette size in determining life history of teasel, Dipsacus sylvestris?; and (3) how old are reproducing adults in a stage-classified population of pink lady's-slipper, Cypripedium acaule? Our results may also be useful for evaluating the adequacy of a given stage-transition model.
4539073|The distribution of marsupial folivores in Australian eucalypt forests is extremely patchy and, although distribution patterns are known to be partly determined by nutritional factors, the role of plant secondary metabolites (PSMs) has been little studied. We investigated variation in the foliar concentrations of five constituents: total phenolics (TP); the foliar component bound by polyethylene glycol (PEGBC); the formylphloroglucinol compound, sideroxylonal (a strong deterrent of mammalian herbivory); the terpene, cineole; and nitrogen (N). These constituents were analyzed using near infrared spectroscopy in 501 individual tallowwood (Eucalyptus microcorys) trees at 42 sites across a broad geographic range in eastern Australia. We tested three hypotheses: (1) trees with lower foliar N produce higher PSM concentrations; (2) PSM concentrations are greater at colder sites; and (3) PSM concentrations are higher at sites with low resource availability. Hypothesis 1 was true for all PSMs considered and was the result of variation that occurred within sites. This is consistent with the carbon/nutrient balance hypothesis and with the hypothesis that PSMs protect leaves from photodamage. Hypothesis 2 was upheld for all constituents. This was consistent with both the growth-differentiation balance hypothesis, and with the hypothesis that PSMs represent an evolutionary adaptation to greater risks of photodamage and frost damage in cold environments. Hypothesis 3 was rejected, with one PSM, sideroxylonal, being affected by resource availability in a manner opposite to that predicted. The optimal defense hypothesis offers an explanation for this result (as sideroxylonal concentrations increased along with the apparent nutritional quality of the foliage, possibly to provide defense against higher rates of herbivory). We found that trees associated with koala fecal pellets had lower concentrations of sideroxylonal and cineole. We discuss this finding and further implications for the herbivores of Eucalyptus of the patterns of plant defense that we detected.
10.2307/2657184|Populations of species living within a spatially fragmented habitat may be affected by interspecific competition on a regional time scale. Metapopulation theory is a potentially powerful tool for understanding the dynamics of such competing species, but metapopulation models with competition are often too complex to be useful as guides for empirical investigation. In this paper I employ two techniques from dynamical systems theory (perturbation expansion and the examination of invariant manifolds) in a qualitative and quantitative analysis of two-species competition within a metapopulation, with the goal of using geometric ideas to provide insight into how competition affects species living in a fragmented habitat. Four-state metapopulation competition models (where habitat patches may be occupied by either of two competing species, both, or neither) can be analyzed as perturbations of simpler three-state models (those without doubly occupied patches as one of the state variables). Symmetric competition for patches is always unstable in three-state Levins-type metapopulations, but generally stable in analogous mainland-island systems. The attracting manifold of a three-state system has the form of an invariant curve joining the two species' Levins equilibria. Under asymmetric competition for patches, coexistence is possible only if the inferior competitor possesses a higher equilibrium proportion of occupied patches in the absence of competition. Asymmetric competition changes the nature of the attracting manifold, with the limit case a curve that is locally tangent to a line parallel to the axis for the proportion of occupied patches of the inferior competitor. The interior equilibrium of a four-state model can be calculated as a perturbation expansion in a parameter , the fraction of doubly occupied patches that contribute to recolonization. The perturbation method in conjunction with center manifold analysis proves that coexistence of like species within a metapopulation is possible if and only if there is recolonization from doubly occupied patches. Rescue effects may make competitive coexistence impossible via the creation of a saddle-point equilibrium having one-dimensional stable and unstable manifolds. Application of the theory to published data from several species of Daphnia in Fennoscandia shows good quantitative agreement with observations and makes several new qualitative predictions. The results are discussed in connection with ecological dynamics of similar forms, including those in the process of speciation.
23206685|Bark beetle outbreaks and wildfire are important disturbances in conifer ecosystems, yet their interactions are not well understood. We evaluated whether fire injury increased susceptibility of lodgepole pines (Pinus contorta) to mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae Hopkins), how it influenced beetle reproductive success, and whether beetle population phase altered this interaction. Eight sites that experienced wildfire and eight unburned sites were examined in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (USA). Half were in areas where D. ponderosae was undergoing outbreaks, and half were in areas with low populations. We examined 2056 trees one year after fire for burn injury and beetle attack. We quantified beetle reproductive success in a random sample of 106 trees, and measured gallery areas of D. ponderosae and competing subcortical herbivores in 79 additional trees. Baited flight traps sampled stand-level populations of subcortical herbivores and predators. Wildfire predisposed trees to D. ponderosae attack, but nonlinearly, with moderately injured trees being most preferred. This tree-level interaction was influenced by stand-level beetle population size, in that both healthy and fire-injured trees of all classes were attacked where populations were high, but no healthy trees, and only low and moderately injured trees were killed where populations were low. The number of adult brood produced per female was likewise curvilinear, being highest in moderately injured trees. This reflected an apparent trade-off, with high intraspecific competition arising from the large number of beetles needed to overcome defenses in healthy trees, vs. high interspecific competition and low substrate quality in more injured trees. These results suggest that fire-injured trees can provide a reservoir for D. ponderosae during periods when populations are too low to overcome defenses of healthy trees, and might otherwise face localized extinction. However, the likelihood of populations increasing from endemic to outbreak levels in response to increased susceptibility is offset by the opposing constraints of lower substrate quality and higher competitor load in severely injured hosts, and the relative scarcity of moderately injured trees. Wildfire may confer some reproductive increases to populations already outbreaking. We present a conceptual model of how these disturbances and inherent feedbacks interact to affect beetle population dynamics.
27646133|Seventy trees from seven stands 50650 years old were selected for this investigation of crown structural development in Pseudotsuga menziesii. All branches, limbs, and trunks were nondestructively measured for size, structure, and location while climbing the trees with ropes. These data were used to generate a computer model of each tree's crown that was error-checked trigonometrically. Leaves, bark, cambium, and wood were quantified by using limited destructive sampling to develop predictive equations that were applied to the complete inventory of structures in each tree's crown. Summations of these values yielded whole-tree estimates of several structural variables. A second set of equations was then developed to predict these whole-tree parameters from simple, ground-based measurements. Principal components analysis of 24 tree-level variables revealed two orthogonal dimensions of structure that accounted for 71.3% and 12.4% of total variation in the 70 trees. The first dimension represented a gradient of overall tree size and structural complexity that was positively correlated with tree age (R2 = 0.89). The second dimension represented a gradient of incremental growth potential that was positively correlated with measured growth of main trunks at breast height during the five-year period after trees were mapped (R2 = 0.39). The strongest determinant of incremental growth potential was the ratio of a tree's total cambium surface area to projected leaf area. A tree's incremental growth potential may thus be unrelated to either size or structural complexity and depend instead on factors related to whole-tree carbon balance (e.g., how much the tree invests in fighting and feeding fungi). Our intensive analyses of Pseudotsuga menziesii and extensive observations of other species were used to develop a conceptual model of crown development in tall conifers. Trees respond to disturbances by growth of replacement structures whose form depends on disturbance intensity and age. Young trees rebuild damaged crowns through epicormic shoot production on original branches, whereas older trees also recover by producing new, epicormic branches. Damage to main trunks and top dieback stimulate production of reiterated trunks. Repeated damage leads to multiple hierarchical levels of trunk reiteration as well as to limb formation and increasing tree individuality.
10.2307/1942621|In New England salt marshes, Spartina alterniflora dominates the low-marsh habitat, which is covered daily by tides. The high-marsh habitat, which is not flooded daily, is dominated on its seaward border by Spartina patens, and on its terrestrial border by Juncus gerardi. Each of these vegetation zones has a characteristic suite of physical factors associated with differences in tidal inundation. In particular, substrate redox increases and salinity decreases with decreasing marsh elevation. Although correlations between physical factors and the occurrence of specific marsh plants have been suggested to be causal, a 5-mo transplant experiment suggested that the distribution of perennials across the marsh does not correspond to their potential performance across the marsh in the absence of surrounding vegetation. While the high-marsh perennials appear to be restricted to the high-marsh habitat by harsh physical conditions in the low-marsh habitat, the low-marsh dominant, S. alterniflora, is capable of vigorous growth across the entire marsh and appears to be excluded from the high-marsh habitat by the high-marsh perennials. Throughout the high marsh, two other plant species, Distichlis spicata and Salicornia europaea, are found associated with areas that have been disturbed recently. Physical disturbance, in the form of mats of dead plant material (wrack) rafted by tides onto the marsh, is most severe in the spring and early summer, and decreases with increasing marsh elevation. Differential plant mortality results from short-term disturbance events. D. spicata and S. alterniflora are more tolerant of wrack burial than are the other marsh plants, and short-term disturbance increases the relative abundance of these species in the community. Longer lasting disturbance events kill all the underlying vegetation, leaving discrete bare patches throughout the high marsh. D. spicata rapidly colonizes these patches with vegetative runners, while S. alterniflora and Sa. europaea recruit to these patches by seed. The relative abundance of these plants in recently created bare patches exceeds greatly their relative abundance in the surrounding vegetation. Over time, however, these early colonizers are overgrown and displaced in high-marsh patches by S. patens and J. gerardi, which grow slowly, as dense turfs of roots, rhizomes, and tillers. Physical disturbance and interspecific competition appear to be major determinants of the spatial pattern of marsh plant communities. These processes will need to be considered in relation to edaphic factors in elucidating the underlying mechanisms of salt marsh plant zonation.
4539044|The study of interspecific variation in plant ecological strategies has revealed suites of traits associated with leaf life span and with maximum levels of water deficit (measured as leaf water potentials). Here, the relationship between these sets of traits was examined in a study of 20 co-occurring chaparral shrubs that vary in leaf habit, rooting depth, and regeneration strategies. Leaf life span (LLS) and minimum seasonal water potentials (
10.2307/2937306|Pollen diagrams from the Prairie Peninsula in Illinois record the climatically related vegetation shifts that have occurred since the late Pleistocene. They indicate that the major period of prairie development started between 8500 and 7900 BP, apparently occurring first along the southern margin. These events mark the beginning of the Hypsithermal interval and are correlated with the final disintegration of the Laurentide ice sheet and the establishment of the postglacial system of atmospheric circulation over North America. The late-glacial vegetation was spruce woodland in the north and open spruce woodland/tundra in central Illinois. These vegetation communities disappeared from the state in a northward direction between 14 000 and 10 900 BP. They were followed in northern Illinois by Pinus, Abies, Betula, and Fraxinus; in central Illinois Fraxinus expanded in the lowlands while the uplands remained relatively treeless. These assemblages, which persisted longer in the south than in the north, were subsequently replaced first by a mixture of cool temperate, then warm temperate deciduous trees as climatic amelioration continued. By 9000 BP, Illinois was dominated by deciduous forest. In response to Hypsithermal climatic stress, prairie vegetation began replacing deciduous forest about 8300 BP on the uplands in central Illinois and by 7900 BP xeric oak-hickory forest became dominant in northern Illinois. This is the beginning of the Prairie Peninsula as a discrete floristic area in Illinois. About 5000 BP the southern border of the Prairie Peninsula experienced increased moisture and renewed forest development suggesting a western contraction of the prairie margins. Central Illinois, however, remained grassland to the present. Between 900 and at least 400 yr ago an indicated trend toward cooler temperatures is correlated with late stages of the Neoglacial. Pollen evidence from northern Illinois and adjacent Lake Michigan indicates the reappearance or increase in Betula, Pinus, Picea and Larix. This short cool episode appears to end prior to the beginning of large-scale historic land clearance, about 140 yr ago, as the evidence for a vegetational readjustment to warmer climate is truncated by the logging of the forests, the plowing of the prairies and the resultant dramatic increase in Ambrosia pollen.
10.2307/1942566|The general pattern of changes in avian communities along latitudinal, successional, or moisture gradients have been clarified in recent years. However, few studies have compared avifaunas of similar vegetation types and climates in two tropical regions. In this study I asked two questions. How similar ecologically are the avian communities in two tropical areas (Panama and Liberia) with similar climate? To what extent might differences be due to historical factors? In general, there is convergence in the structural and functional characteristics of species and communities in the two tropical regions. However, because historical factors have been different in detail, avifaunas of varying faunal complexity have developed. The forest fauna of Panama is richer than that of Africa but the situation is reversed in grassland and savanna. This seems to be due to the geographic extent of these habitats and their degree of fragmentation during the Pleistocene. Food and habitat specializations are more striking in the neotropics than in Africa. In addition, several feeding guilds, especially bark-gleaners, hover-gleaners, and salliers, are less well represented in Africa. A lower number of bird species feeding on fruit and flower resources in Africa parallels a similar trend in bat communities. The reasons for these differences are complex and outweigh the trends toward convergent evolution in areas of similar climate. Differences of historical geography in the two regions are correlated with the differences in the two avifaunas. These include long- and short-term effects of weather and climate, differences in distribution and abundance of dispersal barriers, trophic role replacements, variation in coevolutionary interactions among groups, and varying histories of human influence. In brief, it appears that the avifaunas of Central America and Africa would be more similar if (1) there were fewer isolating barriers (especially mountains and rivers) in South America, (2) Central America were more isolated from the barriers and consequent high speciation rates of South America, (3) man's influence had been of longer duration in Central America, and (4) the Central American dry season was longer and/or less predictable. These factors and their interactions have produced faunas that are clearly tropical but which are different in a number of respects.
4134784|The original concept of succession emphasized directional changes in species composition occurring over time on "blank slates" (new substrates or those that followed catastrophic disturbances). In this paper, we explore relationships between different effects of disturbances on residents and the initiation of directional species replacement on sites in a landscape. We present a conceptual model involving recurrent natural disturbances of sites in a landscape containing two species, one of which arrives at sites early and the other arrives late following disturbance. We predict effects of recurrent catastrophic disturbances (no survivors) and non-catastrophic disturbances (some survivors) on the initiation of directional species replacement, assuming temporal gradients in environmental conditions on sites after disturbance. We predict that directional species replacement will be initiated by catastrophic disturbances, and by non-catastrophic disturbances when the early species does not survive, but reinvades. Most natural disturbances tend to leave survivors and do not remove early species preferentially. As a result, many post-disturbance changes are possible on sites; directional species replacement is only one change, and often may not be the most common. One important consequence of the low likelihood that disturbances will initiate directional species replacements should be the precarious existence of early species dependent on disturbances that open sites for colonization. We examined constraints on disturbances, sites, and life histories that might increase colonization by early species. We explored how refuges and life history characteristics might reduce the likelihood of replacement of early species by late species, and we consider how spatial and temporal variation in disturbance effects might influence persistence of early species. In this way, we propose relationships between effects of non-catastrophic disturbance and the dynamic relationships between species that may be applicable across different ecological systems.
10.2307/1942526|Plants and animals that inhabit the intertidal zone of wave-swept shores are generally small relative to terrestrial or subtidal organisms. Various biological mechanisms have been proposed to account for this observation (competition, size-specific predation, food-limitation, etc.). However, these biological mechanisms are constrained to operate within the mechanical limitations imposed by the physical environment, and these limitations have never been thoroughly explored. We investigated the possibility that the observed limits to size in wave-swept organisms are due solely or in part to mechanical, rather than biological, factors. The total force imposed on an organism by breaking waves and postbreaking flows is due to both the water's velocity and its acceleration. The force due to velocity (a combined effect of drag and lift) increases in strict proportion to the organism's structural strength as the organism increases in size, and therefore cannot act as a mechanical limit to size. In contrast, the force due to the water's acceleration increases faster than the organism's structural strength as the organism grows, and thus constitutes a potential mechanical limit to its size. We incorporated this fact into a model that predicts the probability that an organism will be destroyed (by breakage or dislodgement) as a function of five parameters that can be measured empirically: (1) the organism's size, (2) the organism's structural strength, (3) the maximum water acceleration in each wave, (4) the maximum water velocity at the time of maximum acceleration in each wave, and (5) the probability of encountering waves with given flow parameters. The model was tested using a variety of organisms. For each, parameters 1-4 were measured or calculated; the probability of destruction, and the size-specific increment in this probability, were then predicted. For the limpets Collisella pelta and Notoacmaea scutum, the urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, the mussel Mytilus californianus (when solitary), and the hydrocoral Millepora complanata, both the probability of destruction and the size-specific increase in the risk of destruction were determined to be substantial. It is conjectured that the size of individuals of these species may be limited as a result of mechanical factors, though the case of M. complanata is complicated by the possibility that breakage may act as a dispersal mechanism. In other cases (the snails Thais canaliculata, T. emarginata, and Littorina scutulata; the barnacle Semibalanus cariosus), the size-specific increment in the risk of destruction is small and the size limits imposed on these organisms are conjectured to be due to biological factors. Our model also provides an approach to examining many potential effects of environmental stress caused by flowing water. For example, these methods may be applied to studies of: (1) life-history parameters (e.g., size at first reproduction, age at first reproduction, timing of reproductive cycles, length of possible reproductive lifetime), (2) the effects of gregarious settlement on the flow encountered, (3) the physical basis for patterns of disturbance, (4) the optimum (as opposed to the maximum) size of organisms, and (5) the energetic cost of maintaining a skeleton with an appropriate safety factor. A definitive answer regarding the possibility of mechanical limits to size depends both upon an accurate measurement of the probability of encountering a wave of specific flow parameters and upon factors that are external to the model considered (e.g., life-history parameters). Further, due to their ability to move with the flow, organisms that are sufficiently flexible can escape the size limits imposed on more rigid organisms. Thus, some macroalgae attain large sizes (2-3 m in maximum dimension). The precise role of these factors awaits further research.
10.2307/2937282|The development of the vegetation and floras of the Krakatau Islands in the Sunda Straits, Indonesia, since their @'sterilization@' in 1883 is described. Key features of the post-1883 environment, such as pedogenesis, geomorphology (coastal change), human influence, and recent volcanic activity are detailed, and their possible influence on spatial and temporal patterns in both vegetation and flora is discussed. Field work conducted in 1979, 1983, and 1984 has enabled an assessment of the present state of vegetation development, aided by plot-based sampling and analysis of the arboreal component, employing numerical classification (by TWINSPAN) and ordination (by DCA). The coastal communities were established early and have remained little changed, although the distribution of the various components has changed according to the influence of a dynamic coastal geomorphology. Fifty years after forest closure, the forest of the interiors remain species-poor and composed of typical early-seral species. Rakata was dominated inland by Neonauclea calycina and Ficus pubinervis up to @?550 m altitude, above which a mossy forest of Ficus spp. and Schefflera polybotrya scrub was recorded. The main inland forest types on Rakata Kecil and Sertung were of young, evenaged stands of Timonius compressicaulis (extensive) and older stands of Dysoxylum gaudichaudianum (often with a T. compressicaulis understory). The principal axes of variation within the data were found to be between extremes of the Rakata forest types, with Sertung and R. Kecil stands remaining undifferentiated until lower levels of the analyses. These patterns were ascribed to a mix of environmental variation (coastal and altitudinal factors), chance variations in colonization, and to volcanic action following the emergence of Anak Krakatau in 1927. Disturbance by volcanism (e.g., in 1930, 1934-1936, 1939, 1952-1953, 1961) has resulted in the deflection of vegetation succession on R. Kecil and Sertung into a different pathway from that followed on Rakata, which has remained unaffected by the activity. On Anak Krakatau, volcanic action has prevented successful colonization away from accreting coastal deposits, and has several times eliminated the entire flora. In addition, the major source of propagules for Anak Krakatau is from within the group, and for these several reasons the new island is shown to be a poor analogue for the early recovery phases of the other islands. Complete floral lists are given for each recorded survey for each island in the group, including data from surveys in 1979, 1982, and 1983. These data have been revised from previous publications on the basis of recent herbarium work and literature searches. The data are analyzed according to several different models: cumulative species totals, species totals for particular combinations of surveys, and totals calculated on the assumption of minimum turnover. The early beach spermatophyte assemblages of Rakata have undergone relatively few losses in comparison to the assemblages of the interior, while within the latter there has been a relatively high proportion of losses among the pioneering pteridophytes. The possession of major habitat types has been identified as critical in determining the shape of the overall colonization curve, through the passive sampling of different source pools. The diversity of the floras of the group as a whole and of Rakata and Anak Krakatau has continued to increase. The curves of species present on Sertung and R. Kecil have levelled and fallen respectively, as a result of the volcanic activity of Anak Krakatau. It is shown that the number of animal-transported species on the Krakatau group has continued to increase over the last 50 yr, and that this accounts for the majority of the increase in the size of the spermatophyte flora. The animal-transported species and the early sea-dispersed species appear to be species-stable groups. Later sea-dispersed species included ephemerals and species of temporary habitats, and have experienced a relatively high proportion of losses. Few beach species that have established on all of the three main islands have subsequently become extinct from the group. The number of pteridophytes on the islands has increased over the last 50 yr, mainly through the addition of forest species. A large proportion of plant species has been found only on Rakata, which samples an upland source pool not represented on the other islands. It is argued that the assumptions of @'classical@' island biogeography are inappropriate to these data and that the pattern in floral recolonization can best be understood as a successional process involving broad habitat and dispersal mechanism determinants. The implication of these findings is that community dynamics are highly significant in determining rates of immigration, colonization (i.e., successful immigration), and extinction, and that the probabilities of each vary among different groups of species and through time.
10.2307/1942999|Field experiments in ecological and environmental research usually do not meet the criteria for modern experimental design. Subsampling is often mistakenly substituted for true replication, and sample sizes are too small for adequate power in tests of significance. In many cases, field-study objectives may be better served by various kinds of sampling procedures, even though the resulting inferences will be weaker than those obtainable through controlled experimentation. The present paper provides a classification and description of methods for designing environmental studies, with emphasis on techniques as yet little used in ecology. Eight categories of techniques for field studies are defined in terms of the nature of control exerted by the observer, by the presence or absence of a perturbation, and by the domain of study. The first two categories include classical experimental approaches, replicated and unreplicated. Sampling for modelling provides efficient designs for estimating parameters in a specified model. Intervention analysis measures the effect of a known perturbation in a time series. Observational studies contrast selected groups from a population, while analytical sampling provides comparisons over the entire population. Descriptive survey sampling estimates means or totals over an entire population, while sampling for pattern deals with spatial patterns over a selected region. We propose that the statistical concept of a @'superpopulation@' may be useful in ecology, and that it may be desirable to approach community and ecosystem studies in a sampling framework, with experimentation used for a fairly narrow range of subsidiary investigations. Much more attention to processes for drawing inferences about cause and effect is needed, in any case.
10.2307/1943071|The full suite of carbon exchanges among the 36 most important components of the Chesapeake Bay mesohaline ecosystem is estimated to examine the seasonal trends in energy flow and the trophic dynamics of the ecosystem. The networks provide information on the rates of energy transfer between the trophic components in a system wherein autochthonous production is dominated by phytoplankton production. A key seasonal feature of the system is that the summer grazing of primary producers by zooplankton is greatly reduced due to top-down control of zooplankton by ctenophores and sea nettles. Some of the ungrazed phytoplankton is left to fuel the activities of the pelagic microbial community, and the remainder falls to the bottom where it augments the deposit-feeding assemblage of polychaetes, amphipods, and blue crabs. There is a dominant seasonal cycle in the activities of all subcommunities, which is greatest in the summer and least in the cold season. However, the overall topology of the ecosystem does not appear to change substantially from season to season. Matrix operations can be employed to assess the various direct and indirect pathways by which each trophic group obtains energy. Often, indirect linkages reveal interesting differences. For example, although the bluefish and striped bass are both piscivorous predators, 63% of bluefish intake depends indirectly on benthic organisms, whereas striped bass depends mainly on planktonic organisms. Nearly all higher trophic species exhibit significant indirect dependencies upon the upper components of the microbial loop, especially during summer. The complicated trophic network can be mapped into an eight-level trophic chain in the sense of Lindeman. Such analysis reveals that detritivory is about 10 times greater than herbivorous grazing in the Chesapeake system and that 70% of detritus results from internal recycle. Annual efficiencies of trophic levels decrease as one ascends the chain. Major seasonal shifts in trophic efficiencies at higher levels appear to be modulated by how effectively microscopic zooplankton (mostly ciliates) are cropped by their predators. Average trophic efficiency is 9.6%. Despite the existence of eight trophic levels, the average level at which each species feeds always remains below 5. One @'pest@' species (the coelenterate Chrysaora quinquecirrha) feeds rather high on the trophic pyramid and may exert a heretofore unappreciated level of control on the planktonic food chain. The number of cycles present in the network is surprisingly few, despite the fact that a relatively large and seemingly constant amount (23.2%) of total system activity is devoted to recycling. This combination of factors possibly indicates a stressed ecosystem. A study of the rate-limiting links in the seasonal networks of recycling of material within the plankton reconfirms the shift of predator control from crustaceous zooplankton in springtime to the sea nettle (Chrysaora quinquecirrha) during summer months. The collection of cycles present in the system is disjoint; there is no overlap between the cycles among the planktonic community and the circulations among the deposit feeders and nekton. The filter-feeding benthos and fish do not participate in any cycling, but serve rather as bridges to shift carbon and energy from the planktonic community into the benthic-nektonic subsystems. Neither do most of the members of the microbial loop engage in any recycle of carbon, functioning instead as a dissipative shunt of energy out of the system.
10.2307/2937270|We have calculated a nitrogen cycle budget for West Africa south of the northern Sahara that quantifies biologically important pools of nitrogen in the region and major fluxes associated with these pools. Major compartments of our model include noncultivated systems broken down by vegetation zone, successional status, and plant components; annual and perennial crops each broken down by crop species and plant and harvest components; wetlands; anthropic systems; and soils and sediments. Base reference year is 1978. Biological nitrogen fixation and precipitation fluxes dominated nitrogen inputs to West Africa in 1978. Approximately 12 @? 10^9 kg were fixed in noncultivated systems; about half of this was fixed in early successional (0-6 yr) rain forests, and much of the rest in grazed or fallow savanna grasslands and woodlands. Less than 0.7 @? 10^9 kg were fixed in cultivated systems; legumes accounted for @?25% of this. Total anthropic sources (fossil fuel combustion, fertilizer production, and agricultural commodity imports) were minor (<0.3 @? 10^9 kg). Precipitation inputs to the region were @?0.4 @? 10^9 kg. Most nitrogen leaving West Africa did so volatilized by fire (@?8.3 @? 10^9 kg), principally in non-cropped systems. Major losses also occurred via hydrologic export to the Atlantic Ocean (1.5 @? 10^9 kg) and via denitrification (1.1 @? 10^9 kg). Total N losses from West Africa exceeded 11.0 @? 10^9 kg. The nitrogen immobilized in growing woody vegetation appeared to have amounted to @?5.6 @? 10^9 kg. Most was immobilized in forested regions by vegetation regrowth during the fallow phase of the bush fallow crop rotation cycle, the dominant cropping system in West Africa. A very small amount was immobilized by perennial crops such as cacao and rubber. Net immobilization in soil was not estimated; total soil N was assumed to be in steady state for the region as a whole. Our overall budget balances within 1%, despite independent calculations of all major fluxes. The balance portrays a nitrogen cycle dominated by pools and fluxes in noncropped systems. In contrast to N balances in developed regions, direct anthropic fluxes are a minor part of the West Africa cycle. Indirect human influences, however, mainly through effects on vegetation cover, appear to be a major determinant of both the rates at which nitrogen is cycled in West Africa and the relative importance of most pools and fluxes.
10.2307/1942247|We have developed a model which indicates that the pure strategy of @'majoring@'is always better than random foraging if the reward structure remains approximately constant through time. @'Minoring@' is a necessary compromise required to track resources changing through time.
10.2307/3100058| Most nitrogen and phosphorus transported by world rivers to the oceans is associated with dissolved organic matter. However, organic matter as a potential source of N and P has hitherto been largely neglected in studies of coastal microbial food webs. We examined 50 rivers, draining a major part of the Baltic Sea watershed, with respect to summer concentrations, chemical composition, and biological availability of N and P. The broad spectrum of rivers studied enabled us to assess whether the input of terrigenous organic matter can be an important nutrient source, at various levels of anthropogenic loading of inorganic N and P. Concentrations of total N and P ranged from 9 to 220 mol/L and from 0.14 to 5.56 mol/L, respectively, with the highest concentrations in the southern part of the Baltic Sea drainage area and in several rivers on the Finnish western coast. Urea and dissolved combined amino acids (DCAA) each constituted 4-20% of dissolved organic nitrogen (DON), while dissolved free amino acids (DFAA) made up <3% of DON. The contribution of urea and amino acids to the DON pool was inversely correlated with DON concentration. Bacterial regrowth bioassays in selected rivers demonstrated that 30% of DON and 75% of dissolved organic phosphorus (DOP) was potentially available to the indigenous bacterial assemblage of the Baltic Sea, and hence susceptible to mineralization within the pelagic food web. Our study is among the first to demonstrate that bacterioplankton are able to utilize a major part of DON and DOP from a broad spectrum of natural waters. The C:N ratio, absorbance spectra, and fluorescence properties of the organic matter suggest that the observed high bioavailability of DON and DOP was due to a large contribution of organic matter from riverine primary production compared to the humic matter derived from terrestrial vascular plants. In addition, algal and bacterial cells dominated the transport of particulate organic material, further enhancing productivity of coastal waters. No correlations were found between DON bioavailability and the fraction of DON bound in urea and amino acids, indicating a utilization of other N compounds (e.g., amides) by the bacteria. We estimate that the input of summer riverine N to the Baltic Sea consists of 48% dissolved inorganic N, 41% DON, and 11% particulate N. Corresponding values for phosphorus are 46%, 18%, and 36% of dissolved inorganic P, DOP, and particulate P, respectively. During the thermal summer stratification, when freshwater inputs are trapped in the surface layer, rivers contribute 30% of N and 5% of P needed to support the export production (plankton sedimenting out of the photic layer) in the Baltic Sea. The high availability to bacteria suggests that DOP is a major stimulator of pelagic productivity in the P-limited northern part of the Baltic Sea. Based on reported concentrations in other areas, we suggest that the global contribution of riverine organic N and P to the primary production of coastal waters is comparable to the contribution of inorganic nutrients. 
10.2307/1943007|The main objective of this study was to determine the important mechanisms regulating woody plant establishment in recently abandoned agricultural fields in central New York. The study focused on the early life stages, from the dispersal of seeds to the fate of seedlings at the end of the second growing season, of common old-field invaders, primarily Acer rubrum, Pinus strobus, Cornus racemosa, and Rhamnus cathartica. We investigated patterns of survivorship and causes of mortality during each of these life stages in microsites dominated by previously established herbs and in experimental openings in the herb canopy. Establishment of a tree or shrub seedling was much less likely from seeds landing among herbs than in openings. During the fall, seed predation by mice, especially under the cover of herbs (median of averages across all species = 6% in open, 85% under herbs), was an important process regulating the relative abundance and spatial distribution of seeds after dispersal. Seedling emergence rates were generally quite low, but for most species tended to be greater in the presence of perennial herbs (12%) and were lower under annuals and biennials (7%) and in bare soil (6%). For cohorts of seedlings followed for two growing seasons (Experiment 6A), some mortality occurred due to frost heaving (17% in open, 4% under herbs) and apparent heat stress or desiccation during the summer (5% in open, 0% under herbs); however, the largest source of mortality, especially under the herb canopy, was predation by rodents, especially meadow voles (6% in the open, 62% under herbs). Competition with herbs, especially aboveground competition, significantly reduced growth of woody seedlings. In spite of growth reduction in the presence of herbs, there was no significant relationship between seedling size and survivorship within any treatment, indicating that mortality could not be directly attributed to competition. For different species, and at different life stages, support was found for all three of the succession models of Connell and Slatyer (1977). The tolerance model was supported in some cases of seed predation (Experiment 2), seedling emergence (Experiments 4 and 5, in part), and seedling predation (Experiment 7). The facilitation model was supported in some cases by increased seedling emergence (Experiments 4 and 5, in part) and increased seedling survivorship in the presence of herbs during periods of environmental stress (Experiments 6A and 8). The inhibition model was also supported in some cases of decreased growth (Experiment 6B) and decreased survival of seeds and seedlings (Experiments 1, 3, 6A, and 8) in the presence of herbs. The lower survivorship under herbs was largely the result of seed and seedling predation, which were the two most important processes regulating tree and shrub colonization of old fields in this study. Reduced growth of later colonists due to competition with earlier colonists is considered direct inhibition, while increased mortality due to predation on later colonists caused by animals whose activity is necessarily associated with the presence of earlier colonists is considered indirect inhibition. Seed and seedling predation are potentially important mechanisms regulating succession and should be explicitly included in studies of succession.
10.2307/2963510|A number of hypotheses for hatching asynchrony suggest that the size hierarchy among nestlings produced by hatching asynchrony is adaptive and confers benefits to parents. We assessed the costs and benefits of asynchronous hatching in the Green-rumped Parrotlet (Forpus passerinus), a small Neotropical parrot that hatches large clutches very asynchronously. We manipulated eggs to create broods of four, six, or eight young that hatched synchronously or asynchronously. In a second experiment, we tested whether food limits offspring survival by experimentally feeding later hatched young in large asynchronous broods. We also examined the premise that food varies unpredictably by sampling seeds throughout several breeding seasons. Experimentally synchronized broods generally fledged as many or more young than asynchronous broods. Synchrony particularly outperformed asynchrony in broods of eight, where food demands should have been greatest. Nestlings had a higher probability of fledging from synchronous broods than from asynchronous broods, from small rather than medium or large broods, and if they were early hatched rather than later hatched. Most mortality in asynchronous broods occurred within 12 d of hatching, and a significantly greater proportion of later hatched chicks died with empty crops than did early hatched chicks. Later hatched chicks grew more slowly than their earlier hatched nestmates, but at fledging they were as heavy or heavier than earlier hatched chicks. Chicks from asynchronous broods were slightly heavier at fledging than synchronous chicks, but there was no correlation between fledging mass and the likelihood of being resighted in subsequent years. Cormack-Jolly-Seber model estimates revealed no significant differences in annual survival rates between young fledged from synchronous and asynchronous broods. Female chicks fledged from synchronous broods were recruited into the study population at a lower rate than those from asynchronous broods. Older chicks from reduced broods were less likely to fledge than chicks from broods that fledged all their young. Parents of large synchronous and asynchronous broods provisioned their young at similar rates and did not differ significantly in their subsequent survival. Females that raised experimentally synchronous and asynchronous broods showed no significant differences in the likelihood, timing, or success of their next breeding attempt. A marginally higher proportion of last-hatched chicks that received supplemental food survived to fledging than last-hatched control chicks, but feeding had no effect on penultimate chicks. Seed densities showed a high degree of autocorrelation over spans of 30-50 d. Asynchronous hatching appears to result in the mortality of the smallest young, due in part to the inequitable distribution of food among nestmates, rather than to food limitation, and as a direct result of the size disparities among nestmates. Thus, parrotlet parents appeared to derive no detectable short- or long-term benefits from the staggered hatching of their young through increased nestling growth and survival, reduced parental efforts, or increased parental survival. Although other adaptive benefits from hatching asynchrony are possible that were not tested directly in these experiments (e.g., "insurance" that some nestlings will survive), they seem insufficient to account for the extreme hatching asynchrony observed in the parrotlet. Instead, benefits to egg survival derived from the early onset of incubation may offset the costs of asynchronous hatching.
10.2307/3100094|In systems where disturbance creates colonization opportunities, competition-colonization trade-offs can lead to coexistence between competitors sharing a single, limiting resource. In upland East Africa, four species of obligate acacia-ants compete for possession of Acacia drepanolobium host trees but still coexist at fine spatial scales. Previous experiments revealed a hierarchy of competitive dominance among mature ant colonies in battles over occupied trees (Crematogaster sjostedti > C. mimosae > C. nigriceps > Tetraponera penzigi), and the pattern of ant species turnover on single host trees over time is consistent with this hierarchy. Here we present evidence that competition-colonization trade-offs are likely to facilitate coexistence within this guild. The population of host trees is highly dynamic. Although most suitable host trees are occupied by ants, mature A. drepanolobium trees may be vacated after fire, extensive damage, or drought. Smaller host trees with limited nesting space become available when they recruit into the population as saplings or coppices. These unoccupied trees may be colonized by expansion of nearby, mature colonies as well as by foundress queens attempting to initiate new colonies. We identified competition-colonization trade-offs between two stages of colony development: competitive colony expansion onto nearby trees, and competition among foundress queens for nest-initiation sites. All three Crematogaster species readily occupy nearby, empty trees by colony expansion. In contrast, T. penzigi colonizes empty trees almost exclusively by dispersive foundress queens. Colonies of C. sjostedti are competitively dominant over those of all other species, but foundress queens of this species rarely attempt to start independent colonies. Foundress queens of the secondary competitive dominant (C. mimosae) are restricted mostly to low-quality, small saplings. In contrast, competitively subordinate colonies of T. penzigi and C. nigriceps produce foundress queens that disproportionately colonize empty mature trees, the highest quality host plants that are available. Competition between foundress queens is intense. Queens are significantly hyper-dispersed among potential nest-initiation sites, indicating that the presence of resident foundresses deters subsequent colonization attempts, and competitive dominance among foundresses who fight during colony founding is the reverse of that seen among mature colonies. Coexistence within this guild may therefore be promoted by ontogenetic reversals in relative competitive ability between early and late stages of colony development, a pattern that is consistent with the niche hypothesis for competition-colonization trade-offs.
10.2307/1942223|Because of the nature of their substratum, the sessile invertebrate species of the marine epifaunal community living on rocks occur in discrete patterns of distribution. The rocks are finite patches or habitat islands with a limited space for colonization and growth. Such a system is ideal for studying the parameters affecting the distribution of species within a community. Also, because of the small size and immobility of the adults, the system is also ideal for studying the pattern of change in species composition and diversity within a community. This study used multiple series of manipulated experimental plates, which both duplicated natural rock surfaces and could be compared with samples of the rocks, to investigate the developmental and distributional processes of this community. Five major factors were found to be important to both the development of the community and its distribution on the rocks: (1) the selectivity of the metamorphosing larvae as to site of attachment; (2) the seasonal fluctuation in larval abundances; (3) the biological interactions within and between species; (4) the size of rock substrata; and (5) the physical disturbance of the substrata (rock turnover). Initially, the developmental process can be uncoupled from the effects of the substrate size and disturbance. Predation is relatively unimportant as a biological interaction within this community, but the species can be ranked according to their ability to compete for the available space on a substratum. This ranking implies a type of successional sequence in the development of the community; however, the sequence is greatly affected by historical components. The colonization of a substratum is directly dependent upon the abundance of settling larvae, which in turn is a function of seasonality and selectivity. The eventual competitive outcome and development of the community will depend upon which species have immigrated onto the substratum and is thus dependent upon history. The process is, therefore, open ended: colonization will be highly variable and change seasonally and, although one species may eventually dominate the substratum, it may be one of nine different species depending upon the individual history of that area. The frequency with which a substratum is disturbed (with the resultant extinction of its fauna) is a function of wave force and is inversely proportional to both the size of the substratum and the depth at which it occurs. Disturbance will determine when a substratum is initially exposed for colonization and how long it will have for development. In the shallow subtidal (mean low water to -2.5 m), the frequent disturbance of small rocks will cause them to support less than their equilibrium number of species and their fauna will reflect immediate larval abundances. Large rocks will remain stable for long periods of time and will usually be dominated by a single species. Intermediate-sized rocks (1 to 10 dm3) will remain stable long enough to develop an equilibrium number of species but will be disturbed before dominance occurs. They will thus have the highest diversity because of their 'optimal' frequency of disturbance. In deeper water (10 m) smaller rocks will be more stable. More rocks will develop dominance and the smaller size of a rock at the optimum frequency will mean that substrata at this frequency will have a lower equilibrium number of species and thus a lower diversity. The increased stability with depth will mean a lower overall diversity for the community. Lastly, the increased disturbance and lower pool size for rocks in the intertidal will also cause diversity to be lower in this area. There appears, therefore, to be an optimal frequency of disturbance at which diversity is maximized. An increase or decrease in this level causes a reduction in diversity because of a decrease in the number of species present or an increase in dominance. This optimum will vary with the physical environment and the type of community.
41739374|Within-species sexual segregation is a widespread phenomenon among vertebrates, but its causes remain a topic of much debate. Female avoidance of male coercive mating attempts has the potential to influence the social structure of animal populations, yet it has been largely overlooked as a driver of sexual separation. Indeed, its potential role in longterm structuring of natural populations has not been studied. Here we use a comparative approach to examine the suitability of multiple hypotheses forwarded to account for sexual segregation (i.e., activity budget, prdation risk, thermal niche-fecundity, and social factors) as drivers underlying sex-specific habitat use in a monomorphic model vertebrate, the smallspotted catshark, Scyliorhinus canicula. Using this hypothesis-driven approach, we show that year-round sexual habitat segregation in S. canicula can be accounted for directly by female avoidance of male sexual harassment. Long-term electronic tracking reveals that spermstoring female catsharks form daytime refuging aggregations in shallow-water caves (~3.2 m water depth) and undertake nocturnal foraging excursions into deeper water (~25 m) on most nights. In contrast, males occupy deeper, cooler habitat (~18 m) by day and exploit a range of depths nocturnally (1-23 m). Males frequent the locations of shallow-water female refuges, apparently intercepting females for mating when they emerge from, and return to, refuges on foraging excursions. Females partly compensate for higher metabolic costs incurred when refuging in warmer habitat by remaining inactive; however, egg production rates decline in the warmest months, but refuging behavior is not abandoned. Thermal choice experiments confirm that individual females are willing to "pay" in energy terms to avoid aggressive males and unsolicited male mating attempts. Long-term evasion of sexual harassment influences both the social structure and fecundity of the study population, with females trading off potential injury and unsolicited matings with longer-term fitness. This identifies sexual harassment as a persistent cost to females that can mediate vertebrate population dynamics.
10.2307/3100037|Forest dwelling browsing mammals, notably feral goats and deer, have been introduced to New Zealand over the past 220 years; prior to this such mammals were absent from New Zealand. The New Zealand forested landscape, therefore, presents an almost unique opportunity to determine the impacts of introduction of an entire functional group of alien animals to a habitat from which that group was previously absent. We sampled 30 long-term fenced exclosure plots in indigenous forests throughout New Zealand to evaluate community- and ecosystem-level impacts of introduced browsing mammals, emphasizing the decomposer subsystem. Browsing mammals often significantly altered plant community composition, reducing palatable broad-leaved species and promoting other less palatable types. Vegetation density in the browse layer was also usually reduced. Although there were some small but statistically significant effects of browsing on some measures of soil quality across the 30 locations, there were no consistent effects on components of the soil microfood web (comprising microflora and nematodes, and spanning three consumer trophic levels); while there were clear multitrophic effects of browsing on this food web for several locations, comparable numbers of locations showed stimulation and inhibition of biomasses or populations of food web components. In contrast, all microarthropod and macrofaunal groups were consistently adversely affected by browsing, irrespective of trophic position. Across the 30 locations, the magnitude of response of the dominant soil biotic groups to browsing mammals (and hence their resistance to browsers) was not correlated with the magnitude of vegetation response to browsing but was often strongly related to a range of other variables, including macroclimatic, soil nutrient, and tree stand properties. There were often strong significant effects of browsing mammals on species composition of the plant community, species composition of leaf litter in the litter layer, and composition of various litter-dwelling faunal groups. Across the 30 locations, the magnitude of browsing mammal effects on faunal community composition was often correlated with browser effects on litter layer leaf species composition but never with browser effects on plant community composition. Browsing mammals usually reduced browse layer plant diversity and often also altered habitat diversity in the litter layer and diversity of various soil faunal groups. Across the 30 locations, the magnitude of browser effects on diversity of only one faunal group, humus-dwelling nematodes, was correlated with browser effects on plant diversity. However, browser effects on diversity of diplopods and gastropods were correlated with browser effects on habitat diversity of the litter layer. Reasons for the lack of unidirectional relationships across locations between effects of browsers on vegetation community attributes and on soil invertebrate community attributes are discussed. Browsing mammals generally did not have strong effects on C mineralization but did significantly influence soil C and N storage on an areal basis for several locations. However the direction of these effects was idiosyncratic and presumably reflects different mechanisms by which browsers affect soil processes. While our study did not support hypotheses predicting consistent negative effects of browsing mammals on the decomposer subsystem through promotion of plant species with poorer litter quality, our results still show that the introduction of these mammals to New Zealand has caused far-ranging effects at both the community and ecosystem levels of resolution, with particularly adverse effects for indigenous plant communities and populations of most groups of litter-dwelling mesofauna and macrofauna.
10.2307/2657193|Some theories and experimental studies suggest that areas of low plant species richness may be invaded more easily than areas of high plant species richness. We gathered nested-scale vegetation data on plant species richness, foliar cover, and frequency from 200 1-m
27646075|Ecosystem susceptibility to invasion by nonnative species is poorly understood, but evidence is increasing that spatial and temporal variability in resources has large-scale effects. We conducted a study in Artemisia tridentata ecosystems at two Great Basin locations examining differences in resource availability and invasibility of Bromus tectorum over elevation gradients and in response to direct and interacting effects of removal of perennial herbaceous vegetation and fire. We monitored environmental conditions, soil variables, and B. tectorum establishment and reproduction over two years. Soil water (measured as the number of days soil matric potential was >-1.5 MPa) and nitrate availability (measured as micromoles of NO3- sorbed to resin capsules per day in the ground) decreased with decreasing elevation. Lower-elevation sites had greater annual variability in soil water availability than upper-elevation sites did. Soil nitrate levels were highest at all elevations when soils were wettest; nitrate availability was not more variable at lower elevations. Removal of herbaceous perennials increased soil water and nitrate availability, but burning without removal had only minor effects. Bromus tectorum had low establishment, biomass, and seed production on high-elevation sites and on a mid-elevation site during a cold, short, growing season probably due to ecophysiological limitations resulting from cold temperatures. Establishment, biomass, and seed production were variable at low elevations and best explained by soil characteristics and spatial and temporal variation in soil water. Removal and fire had minor effects on emergence and survival, but biomass and seed production increased two to three times following removal, two to six times after burning, and 1030 times following removal and burning. Our data indicate that invasibility varies across elevation gradients and appears to be closely related to temperature at higher elevations and soil water availability at lower elevations. High variability in soil water and lower average perennial herbaceous cover may increase invasion potential at lower elevations. Soil water and nitrate availability increase following either fire or removal, but on intact sites native perennials typically increase following fire, limiting B. tectorum growth and reproduction. Following resource fluctuations, invasibility is lowest on sites with relatively high cover of perennial herbaceous species (i.e., sites in high ecological condition).
4539045|Peat cores were taken from eight primary and one secondary raised bog sites throughout the United Kingdom in order to determine the pathways of succession between the microform (hummock, ridge, lawn, hollow, and pool) plant communities of the mid to late Holocene. All of these sites have undergone drainage and/or cutting in the recent past, at least. The plant communities were reconstructed by using plant macrofossil analysis, and they are defined primarily by the dominant species of Sphagnum. While plant macrofossils may be used to infer hydrological conditions, an alternative proxy, using testate amoebae, was utilized. This group of organisms was used to avoid circular arguments when relating the vegetation changes to hydrological events. Consequently, a conceptual model of late Holocene succession on British raised mires is constructed that elucidates succession between the microform plant communities according to changes in the water table depth, its stability, quality, and physical disturbance of the vegetation cover. The general sequence of ombrogenous communities was elucidated to be, with increasing height above the water tables, S. cuspidatum and S. auriculatum > Sphagnum sect. Cymbifolia taxa > Sphagnum sect. Acutifolia taxa > a return of Sphagnum sect. Cymbifolia taxa > non-Sphagnum mosses. A major pathway toward degradation of the mire is apparent in modern times, and recovery is typically via a phase of dominance by S. tenellum prior to the establishment of either S. magellanicum or S. papillosum. Although this disturbance is of a large magnitude, it was found that equable or more severe perturbations to the water table had occurred in the past, especially at coastal sites where marine regression led to the establishment of Sphagnum-poor communities dominated by Calluna and Eriophorum vaginatum. The long-term persistence of hummock-hollow vegetation communities is demonstrated, but the appearance of persistent, more homogeneous phases suggests that this surface topography is not always well developed.
27646058|Passively dispersing propagules are often transported across a range of scales, with impacts on local processes tied to the density of settlement, and on regional processes influencing population connectivity. This dual set of effects has spurred research targeting both short- and long-distance ends of the dispersal spectrum. To date, however, dispersal distributions have been rigorously quantified primarily in terrestrial plants with seeds. Dispersal distributions in the ocean are by comparison poorly defined. This limitation arises with particular force in the habitat-forming giant kelp, Macrocystis pyrifera, where complex coastal flows affect self-fertilization and inbreeding depression near to a source, as well as propagule delivery dictating recovery of locally extinct populations farther away. Here we use a combination of theoretical and experimental approaches to examine spore dispersal in Macrocystis. Results from a physically based model, parameterized via field-measured hydrodynamics, are compared to settlement data gathered at the same experimental site using spore collectors positioned around solitary kelps and an experimental kelp forest. Theoretical and empirical findings are synthesized, and the ability of simple phenomenological expressions to represent short- and long-distance spore dispersal is examined. Results demonstrate that short-distance dispersal patterns quantified over brief durations are noisy due to stochastic effects of turbulence. Waves can further smear distributions, reducing distinctions between dispersal from point sources (e.g., solitary kelps) vs. area sources (e.g., entire forests). Temporally averaged dispersal distributions follow a lognormalGaussian form that is explicitly coupled to current speed. Analyses based on this phenomenological expression provide first-order benchmarks useful in several contexts. Calculations suggest a tremendous rate of spore release in Macrocystis, exceeding 108 spores per individual per day. Routine fertilization and recruitment appear possible at distances beyond 1 km from many beds, modulated by current speed, forest size, and the duration of viability of gamete-producing life stages derived from spores. Within Macrocystis forests where settlement densities are high, selfing levels on the order of 10% or more may arise. These characteristics influence patterns of propagule supply, population connectivity, and inbreeding in this key nearshore seaweed, while also revealing trends in the mechanics of propagule dispersal more generally.
10.2307/1943015|Processes important in the development of subtidal seagrass beds composed of Thalassia testudinum, Syringodium filiforme, Halodule wrightii, and many rhizophytic algal species were examined in situ for 52 mo in a coral reef lagoon on St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands. The study emphasized the early stages of development of the seagrass beds and the role played by colonizing rhizophytic algae. I tested the hypotheses that nutrient accumulation in the sediments limits seagrass recolonization, and that rhizophytic algae facilitate sediment nutrient accumulation by stabilizing the sediments and adding organic matter from rapidly decomposing thalli. Vegetation was removed from 0.25- and 1-m^2 plots in 3 m of water. Plot treatments consisted of: (1) no further manipulation, (2) adding nitrogen plus phosphorus fertilizer to the sediments, (3) removing colonizing rhizophytic algae to minimize algal effects (e.g., sediment stabilization, organic input), and (4) removing colonizing algae and adding @'plastic algae@' to stabilize sediments without organic input. Plant densities, sediment grain size, redox potential, inorganic nitrogen concentrations in porewaters, and ammonium production rates were measured over time in all plots, including undisturbed controls. All recolonization occurred through vegetative propagation. The sequence of plant recolonization was unaffected by the treatments, corresponding instead to life history characteristics and nutrient requirements of the species involved. Rhizophytic algae invaded the plots within a few months, followed by the seagrass Syringodium, then Thalassia. The seagrass Halodule was insignificant in the recolonization. Densities of rhizophytic algae and Syringodium declined when the density of Thalassia reached 200 leaf shoots/m^2. The rates of increase in seagrass leaf shoot densities and biomass were greatest in the fertilized plots, supporting the nutrient limitation hypothesis. Rhizophytic algae facilitated seagrass recolonization; seagrass densities, biomass, and porewater ammonium concentrations were lowest in plots where algae were removed. Sediment ammonium concentrations decreased when Thalassia became dominant. Ammonium production in the sediments increased as the plant community developed. The nitrogen required for Syringodium productivity was met easily by ammonium production, assuming no competition from Thalassia. In contrast, Thalassia accounted for >93% of the nitrogen required for total seagrass productivity, and ammonium production could supply up to 45% of this requirement. At the end of the experiment (52 mo), Thalassia density and ammonium production rates in the sediments were lower than in the surrounding undisturbed seagrass bed. The experiment provides evidence for a resource-ratio model where the rate of succession is controlled by a sediment nutrient supply that increases over time. The sequence of colonization is determined by relative rates of vegetative propagation by stolons and rhizomes across the sediment surface, which are inversely correlated with whole plant productivity and thus with requirements for nutrients. Algal colonizers tolerate low nutrients by having low productivities. The climax species Thalassia is a competitive species effective at exploiting the sediment nutrient resource. Co-existence, rather than replacement, of species occurs, despite a relatively benign disturbance regime.
10.2307/2657185|In the arid southwest of North America, winter precipitation penetrates to deep soil layers, whereas summer "monsoon" precipitation generally wets only surface layers. Use of these spatially separated water sources was determined for three dominant tree species of the pinyon-juniper ecosystem at six sites along a gradient of increasing summer precipitation in Utah and Arizona. Mean summer precipitation ranged from 79 to 286 mm, or from 18% to 60% of the annual total across the gradient. We predicted that, along this summer rainfall gradient, populations of dominant tree species would exhibit a clinal off-on response for use of water from upper soil layers, responding at particular threshold levels of summer precipitation input. This prediction was largely supported by our observations of tree water source use over a two-year period and from irrigation experiments. Hydrogen and oxygen stable isotope ratios (D and <sup>18</sup>O) of tree xylem water were compared to that of precipitation, groundwater, and deep and shallow soil water to distinguish among possible tree water sources. D-<sup>18</sup>O relationships and seasonal xylem water potential changes revealed that trees of this ecosystem used a mixture of soil water and recent precipitation, but not groundwater. During the monsoon period, a large proportion of xylem water in Pinus edulis and Juniperus osteosperma was from monsoon precipitation, but use of this precipitation declined sharply with decreasing summer rain input at sites near the regional monsoon boundary in Utah. Quercus gambelii at most sites along the gradient used only deep soil water even following substantial inputs of summer rain. Populations of Quercus at sites with the highest average summer precipitation input, however, predominantly used water in upper soil layers from recent summer rain events. Soil temperature correlated with patterns of summer precipitation use across the gradient; high soil temperatures north of the monsoon boundary may have inhibited surface root activity for some or all of the three tree species. Irrigation experiments with deuterium-labeled water revealed that Quercus gambelii in northern Arizona and southern Utah did not use water from surface layers. In contrast, Juniperus osteosperma at these sites responded significantly to the irrigations: between 37% and 41% of xylem water originated from irrigations that wetted only the top 30 cm of soil. Responses by Pinus edulis to these irrigations were variable; uptake of labeled water by this species was greater in September at the end of the summer than during the hot midsummer period. Inactivity of Pinus roots in midsummer supports the hypothesis that root activity in this species is sensitive to soil temperature. Seasonal patterns of leaf gas exchange and plant water potential corresponded to the seasonality of rainfall at different sites. However, no correlation between a species' ability to use summer rainfall and its tolerance to water deficits at the leaf level was found. Midday stomatal conductance (g<sub>s</sub>) for Pinus needles approached zero at predawn water potentials near -2 MPa, whereas g<sub>s</sub> in Quercus and Juniperus declined to zero at -2.8 and -3.7 MPa, respectively. The relationship between photosynthesis (A) and g<sub>s</sub> was similar among the three species, although Quercus maintained higher overall rates of gas exchange and tended to operate higher on the A/g<sub>s</sub> curve than the two conifers. At sites in eastern Arizona where Quercus fully used moisture from summer rains, leaf gas exchange characteristics were similar to those of Pinus and Juniperus.
10.2307/1942585|Studies were conducted in four distinct geographic areas (biomes/sites) in northern United States to examine changes in key ecosystem parameter: benthic organic matter (BOM), transported organic matter (TOM), community production and respiration, leaf pack decomposition, and functional feeding-group composition along gradients of increasing stream size. Four stations ranging from headwaters (1st or 2nd order) to midsized rivers (5th to 7th order) were examined at each site using comparable methods. The results for each parameter are presented and discussed in light of the River Continuum Concept of Vannote et al. (1980). The postulated gradual change in a stream ecosystem's structure and function is supported by this study. However, regional and local deviations occur as a result of variations in the influence of: (1) watershed climate and geology, (2) riparian conditions, (3) tributaries, and (4) location-specific lithology and geomorphology. In particular, the continuum framework must be visualized as a sliding scale which is shifted upstream or downstream depending on macroenvironmental forces (1 and 2) or reset following the application of more localized @'micro@'-environmental influences (3 and 4). Analysis of interactions between BOM and TOM permitted evaluation of stream retentiveness for organic matter. Headwaters generally were most retentive and downstream reaches the least. Estimates of organic matter turnover times ranged between 0.2 and 14 yr, and commonly were 1-4 yr. Both turnover times and distances were determined primarily by the interaction between current velocity and stream retention. Biological processes played a secondary role. However, the streams varied considerably in their spiraling of organic matter due to differences in the interplay between retentiveness and biological activity. Differences in the relative importance of retention mechanisms along the continuum suggest that headwater stream ecosystems may be functionally more stable, at least to physical disturbances, than are the r intermediate river counterparts.
10.2307/1943026|This study examines natural, long-term (@?10^4 yr) acidification processes in New England using paleoecological methods (pollen, diatoms, and the chemistry of three operationally defined sediment fractions) and a paired watershed approach.The primary variable is lithology, and the focus of this study is to illuminate the role of lithology in long-term ecosystem acidification. Unlike most cases of recent (anthropogenic) acidification in which inferred processes of ecosystem acidification occur over short time spans (10-50 yr), natural acidification processes develop over hundreds or thousands of years, providing enough temporal resolution in the stratigraphic record to allow strong inferences about the factors controlling the occurrence, timing, and magnitude of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystem acidification. The two sites in this study are similar in size, lake depth, elevation, aspect, and local climate, but Cone Pond, New Hampshire, is an acidic, clearwater lake in a catchment of thin tills derived from base-poor gneisses and schists, whereas South King Pond, Vermont is a mesotrophic lake in a catchment of thicker tills derived from slates, phyllites, and limestone. Although vegetation history is generally similar between the two sites, the Cone Pond catchment included higher representation of acidophilic vegetation than the South King Pond catchment throughout its 10 000-yr history. There are no known exposures of sulfide minerals in the Cone Pond watershed, nor are the basal inorganic sediments S-rich. Both diatom and geochemical analyses indicated significant long-term acidification of the upland soils and surface waters of the Cone Pond, but not the South King Pond, catchment. At Cone Pond, the uplands exported A1 almost entirely in labile form by 10 000 yr before present (BP). Increases in labile Al 8000-5500 BP, followed by substantial declines in sedimentary MN and in the ratio of Ca to organic matter, indicate soil acidification followed by decreasing lakewater pH. The loss of the Melosira/Cyclotella diatom assemblage @?7200 BP as hemlock populations began to expand, coupled with the disappearance of the chrysophyte Mallomonas torquata, suggests increasing lakewater transparency possibly accompanied by decreasing lakewater pH. By 5000 BP, all planktonic diatom species has disappeared, and the acidobiontic diatom flora was well established. Diatom-inferred pH reconstructions indicate that the pH of Cone Pond was <5.5 by 6500 BP and may have dropped below 5.0 as long ago as 2000 BP, when spruce recolonized the catchment. A sudden decline in the ratio of acid-labile nonbiogenic Si to acid-labile A1 also occurred @?2000 BP, and appears to reflect dissolution of an amorphous aluminosilicate complex, providing independent evidence for a precultural pH of @?5.0. None of these features are found at South King Pond, where the only paleolimnological evidence of acidification is a sharp decline in sedimentary carbonates @?5000 BP. This decrease, however, appears to be related to climatic factors rather than to lakewater pH. The historical accident of low till deposition in the Cone Pond catchment has been an important predisposing factor for natural, long-term ecosystem acidification, leading to truncated soil profiles, shortened hydrologic flow paths, lower overall supplies of base cations, and an enhanced susceptibility to biogeochemical changes driven by changes in upland vegetation. The potential role of other factors (depletion of base cations, sulfide minerals in the catchment of the aquifer feeding the ephemeral inlet, weathering of peat deposits in the upper reaches of the inlet, and historic A1 acidity) is also discussed.
10.2307/2657211|A survivorship curve is shaped by the differential survivability of the organisms within the population, and a change in a survivorship curve with a stressor reflects the differential response of the organisms to the stressor. Quantifying this linkage in a simple, rigorous way is valuable for characterizing the response of populations to stressors and ultimately for understanding the evolutionary selection of individuals exposed to stressors. To quantify this stressor-individual-population linkage with as few parameters as possible, I present a simple mechanistic model describing organism survival in terms of age-dependent and age-independent mortality rates. The age-independent rate is represented by a Poisson process. For the age-dependent rate, a concept of vitality is defined, and mortality occurs when an organism's vitality is exhausted. The loss of vitality over age is represented by a continuous Brownian-motion process, the Weiner process; vitality-related mortality occurs when the random process reaches the boundary of zero vitality. The age at which vitality-related mortality occurs is represented by the Weiner-process probability distribution for first-arrival time. The basic model has three rate parameters: the rate of accidental mortality, the mean rate of vitality loss, and the variability in the rate of vitality loss. These rates are related to body mass, environmental conditions, and xenobiotic stressors, resulting in a model that characterizes intrinsic and extrinsic factors that control a population's survival and the distribution of vitality of its individuals. The model assumes that these factors contribute to the rate parameters additively and linearly. The model is evaluated with case studies across a range of species exposed to natural and xenobiotic stressors. The mean rate of vitality loss generally is the dominant factor in determining the shape of survival curves under optimal conditions. Xenobiotic stressors add to the mean rate in proportion to the strength of the stressor. The base, or intrinsic, vitality loss rate is proportional to the -1/3 power of adult body mass across a range of iteroparous species. The increase in vitality loss rate with a xenobiotic stressor can be a function of body mass according to the allometric relationship of the organism structures affected by the stressor. The model's applicability to dose-response studies is illustrated with case studies including natural stressors (temperature, feeding interval, and population density) and xenobiotic stressors (organic and inorganic toxicants). The model provides a way to extrapolate the impact of stressors measured in one environment to another environment; by characterizing how stressors alter the vitality probability distribution, it can quantify the degree to which a stressor differentiates members of a population.
10.2307/2937353|Adjacent, 22-yr-old stands of evergreen chaparral and drought-deciduous coastal sages scrub at a low-elevation site near the ocean in the Santa Monica Mountains of California were analyzed. The chaparral is a pure stand of Ceanothus megacarpus and has an aboveground live biomass of 6482 g/m^2. The coastal sage scrub is co-dominated by Salvia leucophylla and Artemisia californica and has an aboveground live biomass of 925 g/m^2. Attached and standing dead wood comprise 15% and 21% of the total live and dead biomass in the chaparral and coastal sage scrub, respectively, Mean annual aboveground primary production in Ceanothus chaparral is 1056 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1, while litterfall is 801 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1. In the coastal sage scrub, mean annual primary production is 355 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 and litterfall, 199 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1. The drought-deciduous shrubs begin leaf production 1-3 wk after the initial winter rains and continue for 5-7 mo; thereafter, the shrubs lose most of their leaves in the summer. Twig and flower/fruit production continues for several months after leaf growth has ceased. Artemisia and Salvia have no measurable growth for 2 and 4 mo, respectively. In Ceanothus, leaf production begins 3-4 mo after the first rains of winter, and may or may not continue through the summer. Wood production and flowering/fruiting coincide with foliage production. Ceanothus may show measurable aboveground growth for up to 11 mo of the year. Flower production does not occur each year; however, in a flowering year, the production of all reproductive structures is very high (151 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1). The length of the measurable aboveground growing season in the two growth forms does not fully account for the great differences in their annual net primary production. The high net primary production in the Ceanothus chaparral is much greater than other evergreen, mediterranean-type ecosystems and most temperate shrub communities. This high productivity is attributed to a tolerance of low water potentials, high photosynthetic rates, and an efficient use of nutrients in C. megacarpus. The high production in Ceanothus chaparral and the potential for reproduction in the coastal sage scrub suggest that the commonly ascribed senscence of mature shrub stands may not occur in these communities.
10.2307/1948498|An understanding of community structure should be based on evidence that the growth and regulation of the component populations in the community are affected in a predictable manner by natural physical disturbances and by interactions with other species in the community. This study presents an experimental evaluation of the effects of such disturbances and competitive interactions on populations of sessile organisms in the rocky intertidal community, for which space can be demonstrated to be the most important limiting resource. This research was carried out at eight stations on the Washington coastline which have been ranked according to an exposure/desiccation gradient and subjected to comparable manipulation and observation. Physical variables such as wave exposure, battering by drift logs, and desiccation have important effects on the distribution and abundance of many of the sessile species in the community. In particular, wave exposure and desiccation have a major influence on the distribution patterns of all the algae and of the anemone Anthopleura elegantissima. The probability of damage from drift logs is very high in areas where logs have accumulated along the intertidal. Log damage and wave exposure have complementary effects in the provision of free space in a mussel bed, as wave shock enlarges a patch created by log damage by wrenching the mussels from the substratum at the periphery of the bare patch. Competition for primary space results in clear dominance hierarchies, in which barnacles are dominant over algae. Among the barnacles, Balanus cariosus is dominant over both B. glandula and Chthamalus dalli; B. glandula is dominant over C. dalli. The mussel Mytilus californianus requires secondary space (certain algae, barnacles, or byssal threads) for larval settlement, but is capable of growing over all other sessile species and potentially is the competitive dominant of space in the community.
10.2307/2963502|A model of nutrient uptake was used to determine the factors that control the uptake of ammonium, glycine, and nitrate for an important arctic sedge, Eriophorum vaginatum, because the factors that regulate the nitrogen (N) uptake of plants in natural ecosystems are not well understood and a growing number of studies suggest that organic forms of N, including glycine, are an important source of N for E. vaginatum and other plants. E. vaginatum was selected as an exemplary system to explore nitrogen (N) uptake of a native species in situ, because it appears to be strongly N limited in the field, its N nutrition has been extensively studied, and its root growth habits make it well suited to modeling nutrient uptake. The model accounts for N supply from microbial mineralization and other sources, flux of N through the soil to the root surface, and uptake by the plant root. We included glycine in our simulations of N uptake because laboratory experiments have shown that E. vaginatum can use glycine and other low-molecular-mass amino acids as a source of N. However, the extent to which glycine contributes to the N nutrition of E. vaginatum in the field is unknown. Based on these simulations we find that: (1) Ammonium, glycine, and nitrate could all potentially make significant contributions to the N nutrition of E. vaginatum. The relative contribution of glycine is difficult to assess, because its behavior in the soil has not been characterized. However, glycine and ammonium contributed in roughly equal proportions for most model parameterizations. (2) The importance of factors that regulated modeled ammonium and glycine uptake can be ranked as follows: supply rate > [soil factors (buffer capacity and diffusion coefficient) = root density] > root uptake kinetics. Supply rate was the only factor that regulated nitrate uptake. These simulation results and other considerations suggest that N uptake kinetics of roots and soil-solution concentrations may not be reliable predictors of whole-plant N uptake in tundra or other natural ecosystems.
10.2307/1942645|Detritus dynamics in Big Hurricane Branch, a second-order stream at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory in the southern Appalachian Mountains, were simulated with a computer model, using data from a variety of Coweeta stream studies. The model was used to evaluate the role of macroinvertebrates in the stream. Macroinvertebrates accounted for only a small portion of the respiration of detritus; their major role was conversion of benthic detritus into transported detritus. Macroinvertebrates were responsible for 27% of annual particulate organic matter (POM) transport, though when they were removed there was only a 10% reduction in POM transport because of a compensatory increase in storm transport. The contribution of macroinvertebrates to POM transport during nonstorm periods was much more significant, as high as 83% in late summer. Based on an annual budget, macroinvertebrates decrease the efficiency of detritus processing in low-order streams, because they increase transport loss. On a longer time scale, however, macroinvertebrates prevent accumulation of large amounts of detritus in the stream and major losses during infrequent large storms. By stabilizing long-term detritus export dynamics, they provide an important link between low-order and higher-order streams.
10.2307/1942519|The invasion of Mesembryanthemum crystallinum into coastal grassland was observed at Surf on the central coast of California, USA. The species became established in areas unoccupied or sparsely occupied by other plants, and then grew into surrounding areas. The following season, few grassland seedlings established beneath dried Mesembryanthemum as compared to adjacent grassland. The reduction in numbers of grassland seedlings did not appear to be the result of limiting levels of moisture, light or macronutrients which were found in lower levels in the grassland, nor to be due to grazing by small mammals, since the pattern persisted in the absence of grazing. The differential pattern of seedling establishment was correlated with high levels of salt found in the soil beneath dried Mesembryanthemum. Mesembryanthemum crystallinum is an annual plant which accumulates salt throughout its lifespan. After the plant dies, this salt is released with leaching by fog and rain. The salt produces a detrimental osmotic environment preventing growth of nontolerant species. The salt does not appear to have a direct toxic influence on grassland species. Osmotic interference resulting from accumulation and release of salt appears to be the means by which Mesembryanthemum crystallinum dominates areas previously occupied by grassland.
10.2307/3100088|Green sea urchins (Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis) have been a dominant structuring force in boreal, hard-bottom communities and recently have become an important fishery. Despite these roles, relatively little is known about the age, growth, and demographics of field populations. To begin to address these issues, we systematically sampled urchins during 1997 and 1998 at two sites (Allen Island [AI] and Schoodic Peninsula [SP]) in the Gulf of Maine, USA. Basic demographic information (density and size structure) was obtained and a subset of urchins aged by counting annual bands on the interambulacral plates. Size-at-age analyses showed that the population at AI consisted of two sympatric growth morphs, fast growing (fg) and slow growing (sg), each described by its own von Bertalanffy growth parameters for mean size and size variance. The two morphs also differed in maximum observed ages (sg, 6-11 yr, vs. fg, 16-18 yr) and in maximum test diameter sizes (sg, 30-35 mm, vs. fg, 50-70 mm). At SP, a single (fg) morph was identified which had growth characteristics similar to the fg morph at AI. An obviously bimodal size-frequency distribution at AI reflects the accumulation of urchins of each morph at asymptotic size. We advanced several hypotheses, including intrinsic factors (e.g., sex ratios, morphology, and genetics) and extrinsic factors (e.g., density, spatial distribution, settlement history, growth history, and migration) to explain the origin and coexistence of the two growth forms. Using primary and post hoc data analyses, we rejected sex ratio, density, spatial relations, and morphology. Analysis of annual growth and age structure indicated that the two morphs had different settlement histories, suggesting the mixing of two genetically distinct populations. Our post hoc analyses could not reject the genetics or growth history and migration hypotheses. Genetically different larvae, or else a phased process of differential settlement, migration, and growth (threshold migration hypothesis) are the most likely cause(s) for the two morphs. Our data indicate that field growth rates in green urchins are intrinsically highly variable but also vary interannually, probably in relation to their environment. Intrinsic variability provides a novel explanation for bimodality of size-frequency distributions in urchin populations. Interestingly, the sublegal size (<50 mm) and short life span of the sg morph preempts its recruitment into the fishery. Moreover, if the sg morph is widespread and genetically based, intensive harvesting may enhance selection for the sg morph. These findings may have serious implications for understanding the population structure and managing the green urchin fishery, and for assessing the grazing impact of these urchins in nearshore communities.
23596744|Predators can influence prey population dynamics by affecting prey behaviors with strong fitness consequences, with cascading effects on lower trophic levels. Here, we demonstrate that multiple predator species can nonconsumptively influence prey population growth and the strength of a trophic cascade in a model marine community. We exposed the herbivorous amphipod Ampithoe longimana to olfactory and visual cues from three common predators (pinfish, mud crabs, brown shrimp) singly and together in a multiple-predator assemblage to quantify the nonconsumptive effects (NCEs) of predator identity and the presence of multiple predators on prey population and community-level metrics. The presence of predator cues, particularly those of the pinfish and the multiple-predator treatments, decreased prey population growth and influenced primary and secondary production. To explore mechanisms underlying the observed NCEs in the experimental communities and their potential influence in the field, we quantified individual prey behavioral responses (changes in grazing rate, diet preference, dispersal, colonization) in the presence of predator cues. Predator cues decreased prey grazing, dispersal, and colonization but did not affect prey diet preference. Given the persistence of NCEs over time and the fact that trophic cascades are common features of marine systems, changes in marine predator communities may have widespread effects on predatorprey behavioral interactions with consequences for ecosystem function even in areas of weak predation pressure.
20787441|The contribution of carbonate-producing benthic organisms to the global marine carbon budget has been overlooked, the prevailing view being that calcium carbonate (CaCO) is predominantly produced and exported by marine plankton in the "biological pump." Here, we provide the first estimation of the global contribution of echinoderms to the marine inorganic and organic carbon cycle, based on organism-level measurements from species of the five echinoderm classes. Echinoderms' global CaCO contribution amounts to 0.861 Pg CaCO/yr (0.102 Pg C/yr of inorganic carbon) as a production rate, and 2.11 Pg CaCO (0.25 Pg C of inorganic carbon) as a standing stock from the shelves, slopes, and abyssal depths. Echinoderm inorganic carbon production (0.102 Pg C/yr) is less than the global pelagic production (0.4-1.8 Pg C/yr) and similar to the estimates for carbonate shelves globally (0.024-0.120 Pg C/yr). Echinoderm CaCO production per unit area is 27.01 g CaCOmyr (3.24 g Cmyr as inorganic carbon) on a global scale for all areas, with a standing stock of 63.34 g CaCO/m (7.60 g C/m as inorganic carbon), and 7.97 g C/m as organic carbon. The shelf production alone is 77.91 g CaCOmyr (9.35 g Cmyr as inorganic carbon) in contrast to 2.05 g CaCOmyr (0.24 g Cmyr as inorganic carbon) for the slope on a global scale. The biogeography of the CaCO standing stocks of echinoderms showed strong latitudinal variability. More than 80% of the global CaCO production from echinoderms occurs between 0 and 800 m, with the highest contribution attributed to the shelf and upper slope. We provide a global distribution of echinoderm populations in the context of global calcite saturation horizons, since undersaturated waters with respect to mineral phases are surfacing. This shallowing is a direct consequence of ocean acidification, and in some places it may reach the shelf and upper slope permanently, where the highest CaCO standing stocks from echinoderms originate. These organism-level data contribute substantially to the assessment of global carbonate inventories, which at present are poorly estimated. Additionally, it is desirable to include these benthic compartments in coupled global biogeochemical models representing the "biological pump" and its feedbacks, since at present all efforts have focused on pelagic processes, dominated by coccolithophores. The omission of the benthic processes from modeling will only diminish the understanding of elemental fluxes at large scales and any future prediction of climate change scenarios.
10.2307/3100043|Hurricanes are a major factor controlling ecosystem structure, function, and dynamics in many coastal forests, but their ecological role can be understood only by assessing impacts in space and time over a period of centuries. We present a new method for reconstructing hurricane disturbance regimes using a combination of historical research and computer modeling. Historical evidence of wind damage for each hurricane in the selected region is quantified using the Fujita scale to produce regional maps of actual damage. A simple meteorological model (HURRECON), parameterized and tested for selected recent hurricanes, provides regional estimates of wind speed, direction, and damage for each storm. Individual reconstructions are compiled to analyze spatial and temporal patterns of hurricane impacts. Long-term effects of topography on a landscape scale are then simulated with a simple topographic exposure model (EXPOS). We applied this method to the region of New England, USA, examining hurricanes since European settlement in 1620. Results showed strong regional gradients in hurricane frequency and intensity from southeast to northwest: mean return intervals for F0 damage on the Fujita scale (loss of leaves and branches) ranged from 5 to 85 yr, mean return intervals for F1 damage (scattered blowdowns, small gaps) ranged from 10 to >200 yr, and mean return intervals for F2 damage (extensive blowdowns, large gaps) ranged from 85 to >380 yr. On a landscape scale, mean return intervals for F2 damage in the town of Petersham, Massachusetts, ranged from 125 yr across most sites to >380 yr on scattered lee slopes. Actual forest damage was strongly dependent on land use and natural disturbance history. Annual and decadal timing of hurricanes varied widely. There was no clear century-scale trend in the number of major hurricanes. The historical-modeling approach is applicable to any region with good historical records and will enable ecologists and land managers to incorporate insights on hurricane disturbance regimes into the interpretation and conservation of forests at landscape to regional scales.
10.2307/2963497|Mortality rates of 205 tree and shrub species were estimated during two intervals, 1982-1985 and 1985-1990, in two size classes, 1-10 and  10 cm in diameter, in a 50-ha census plot in tropical moist forest on Barro Colorado Island in Panama. The severe dry season of 1983 was the focus of the study, since prior observations had demonstrated that it caused mortality in the forest. Here we document that forest-wide mortality was  3%/yr during the drought interval but only 2%/yr during the period afterwards, and that excess mortality during the first interval amounted to 2% of stems in the larger size class and 1% in the smaller. Overall, just under 70% of all species had higher mortality during the first census interval, but not all species were equally affected. Canopy trees had significantly higher mean mortality rates during 1982-1985 than during 1985-1990, but treelets and shrubs showed no or slight differences. This was counter to our prediction that species with short root systems would suffer more from a long drought. Shrubs did, however, have higher mortality rates than trees and treelets during both census intervals. We also evaluated mortality rates for subgroups of species that specialized on different microhabitats in the forest. As we predicted, colonist species (those associated with light gaps) had higher mortality rates than generalist species, 7-10%/yr compared to 2-4%/yr, but only in the smaller size class. Unexpectedly, colonizers had similar mortality rates as non-colonizers in the larger size class. Gap colonizers and generalist species were similarly affected by the drought--both had elevated mortality during 1982-1985. Species whose distributions were associated with moister soils (on the slopes around the island's plateau or in a swamp in the midst of the 50-ha plot) also had elevated mortality during the drought period, but no more so than generalist species. This was counter to our prediction that species from moist microhabitats would suffer more during an extended drought than generalists. Understory treelets that were slope specialists had higher mortality than generalists during both census intervals, but not large trees that were slope specialists. Our conclusions emphasize diversity as well as pattern. Every trend we illustrated had well-documented exceptions: large trees with lower mortality during the drought period, for example. Clearly, accurate predictions about how tropical forests will respond to climatic perturbations will require much detailed information from many species.
4539095|We examined patterns of nutrient heterogeneity in the mineral soil (0-15 cm depth) of 13 southern Appalachian forest stands in western North Carolina >60 yr after abandonment from pasture or timber harvest to investigate the long-term effects of land use on the spatial distribution and supply of soil resources. We measured soil carbon (C), nitrogen (N), acid-extractable phosphorus (P), potassium (K), calcium (Ca), and magnesium (Mg) concentrations and pools, and potential net N mineralization and nitrification rates to evaluate differences in mean values, variance at multiple scales, and fine-scale spatial structure. While comparisons of averaged values rarely indicated that historical land use had an enduring effect on mineral soil or N cycling, differences in variance and spatial structure suggested that former activities continue to influence nutrient distributions by altering their spatial heterogeneity. Patterns differed by element, but generally variance of soil C, N, and Ca decreased and variance of soil P, K, and Mg increased with intensive past land use. Changes in variance were most conspicuous and consistent locally (<28 m), but C, Ca, P, and Mg also exhibited appreciable differences in variance at coarser scales (>150 m). High variability in soil compaction resulted in some changes in scale-dependent patterns of nutrient pool variance compared with nutrient concentration variance. It also affected the variance of N cycling rates, such that mass-based rates varied less and area-based rates varied more in intensively used areas than in reference stands. Geostatistical analysis suggested that past land use homogenized the spatial structure of soil C, K, and P in former pastures. In contrast, logged stands had highly variable spatial patterning for Ca. These results suggest that land use has persistent, multi-decadal effects on the spatial heterogeneity of soil resources, which may not be detectable when values are averaged across sites. By interacting with patterns of variability in the plant and heterotrophic biota, differences in nutrient distribution and supply could alter the composition and diversity of forest ecosystems. Scale-dependent changes in nutrient heterogeneity could also complicate efforts to determine biogeochemical budgets and cycling rates.
23047562|Species distribution models are an important tool to predict the impact of global change on species distributional ranges and community assemblages. Although considerable progress has been made in the statistical modeling during the last decade, many approaches still ignore important features of species distributions, such as nonlinearity and interactions between predictors, spatial autocorrelation, and nonstationarity, or at most incorporate only some of these features. Ecologists, however, require a modeling framework that simultaneously addresses all these features flexibly and consistently. Here we describe such an approach that allows the estimation of the global effects of environmental variables in addition to local components dealing with spatiotemporal autocorrelation as well as nonstationary effects. The local components can be used to infer unknown spatiotemporal processes; the global component describes how the species is influenced by the environment and can be used for predictions, allowing the fitting of many well-known regression relationships, ranging from simple linear models to complex decision trees or from additive models to models inspired by machine learning procedures. The reliability of spatiotemporal predictions can be qualitatively predicted by separately evaluating the importance of local and global effects. We demonstrate the potential of the new approach by modeling the breeding distribution of the Red Kite (Milvus milvus), a bird of prey occurring predominantly in Western Europe, based on presence/absence data from two mapping campaigns using grids of 40 km 2 in Bavaria. The global component of the model selected seven environmental variables extracted from the CORINE and WorldClim databases to predict Red Kite breeding. The effect of altitude was found to be nonstationary in space, and in addition, the data were spatially autocorrelated, which suggests that a species distribution model that does not allow for spatially varying effects and spatial autocorrelation would have ignored important processes determining the distribution of Red Kite breeding across Bavaria. Thus, predictions from standard species distribution models that do not allow for real-world complexities may be considerably erroneous. Our analysis of Red Kite breeding exemplifies the potential of the innovative approach for species distribution models. The method is also applicable to modeling count data.
10.2307/2937179|Pollen records from northern Grand Teton National Park, the Pinyon Peak Highlands, and southern Yellowstone National Park were examined to study the pattern of reforestation and climatic change following late-Pinedale Glaciation. The vegetational reconstruction was aided by analyses of associated plant macrofossils and the modern pollen rain of the region. Radiocarbon-age determinations and tephrochronology provided a chronologic framework to help correlate pollen records among sites. The fossil records indicate that alpine meadow communities, with Betula and Juniperus, were present between @?14 000 and @?11 500 yr BP. This early assemblage implies a lowering of modern upper treeline by at least 600 m and a climate was @?5-6@? colder than present. Between 11 500 and 10 500 yr BP, increased temperature and winter precipitation allowed first Picea, and then Abies and Pinus cf. albicaulis to spread into areas underlain by andesite and nonvolcanic bedrock. By 10 500 yr BP, the fossil record in these areas resembled modern spectra from subalpine forest. In contrast, the Central Plateau of Yellowstone, which is underlain by infertile rhyolitic soils, was treeless prior to @?10 000 yr BP. The absence of late-glacial subalpine parkland in this area is attributed to the same edaphic factors that limit Picea, Abies, and Pinus albicaulis from the rhyolite plateau today. Between 10 000 and 9500 yr BP, Pinus contorta forest developed throughout the region in response to further warming. Pseudotsuga and Populus were present between 9500 and 5000 yr BP, suggesting a warmer, drier climate than today and more frequent fires. In the last 5000 yr BP mixed forests of Picea, Pinus, and Abies have developed on andesitic and nonvolcanic terrain, and closed forests of Pinus contorta have persisted on rhyolitic substrates. The vegetational patterns are attributed to a combination of climatic and nonclimatic controls operating on different spatial and temporal scales. Climatic changes brought about by the retreat of Laurentide ice and the amplification of the seasonal cycle of radiation explain the broad patterns of vegetational change on millennial time scales. On shorter time scales and smaller spatial scales, substrate differences and migration history shaped the vegetational variability.
27646082|The strength and outcome of interspecific interactions often vary across the landscape because of differences in community context. We investigated how the presence or absence of pine squirrels (Tamiasciurus spp.) influences the ecology and (co)evolution of seed-dispersal mutualisms between Clark's Nutcrackers (Nucifraga columbiana) and limber (Pinus flexilis) and whitebark (P. albicaulis) pines. Nutcrackers are the primary seed dispersers of these pines. Therefore both nutcrackers and pines potentially benefit from the evolution of a cone structure that enhances seed harvest by nutcrackers. Pine squirrels are the dominant predispersal seed predator of these pines throughout the Sierra NevadaCascades and Rocky Mountains and do not disperse seeds, so that pines benefit from deterring seed harvest by pine squirrels. To determine whether pines have evolved in response to selection by nutcrackers and pine squirrels, we conducted studies in ranges with pine squirrels and in ranges in the Great Basin and northern Montana where populations of the pines have apparently evolved without pine squirrels for 10 000 years or more. Cone evolution was convergent between both pines and among phylogeographically independent populations with and without pine squirrels, consistent with variation in selection by nutcrackers and pine squirrels. Where pine squirrels were present, they out-competed nutcrackers for seeds, nutcrackers were less abundant, and selection by pine squirrels constrained the evolution of cone and seed traits that facilitate seed dispersal by nutcrackers. In the absence of pine squirrels, nutcrackers were more than twice as abundant, selection by pine squirrels on cone structure was relaxed, and selection on cone structure by nutcrackers resulted in cones that increased the foraging efficiency of nutcrackers and improved their potential for seed dispersal.
3100076| Forest canopies with leaves shed annually (seasonally deciduous forests) produce a different subcanopy environment than canopies with persistent leaves (evergreen forests). Although causes differ with latitude, seasonality might affect structure and composition of forests similarly. We explored changes in species composition and vertical structure in seasonally deciduous forests from 0-40 N in the Americas. We measured all woody stems 1 cm dbh within replicated 0.0625-ha plots (16 at each of 9 sites, N > 31 000). Numbers of species, as well as density and basal area, were analyzed parametrically for canopy trees, subcanopy trees, shrubs, and lianas. Numbers of species, especially shrubs and subcanopy trees, were greater in warm (30 N) than cool (40 N) temperate forests. Much larger numbers occurred in subtropical (20 N) and tropical (10 N and 0) forests, but did not vary in relation to latitude. Higher than expected numbers in areas <0.25 ha in all forests, but especially subtropical forests, indicated local heterogeneity in species composition. Few species occurred exclusively in any structural category, especially at 20 and 30 N. The density of lianas relative to self-supporting plants was highest at 10 N and declined with increasing latitude. The density of woody plants in the canopy, subcanopy, and shrub layers was higher at 20 N than at other latitudes. In addition, basal area was lowest at 20 N; canopy trees comprised 70% of basal area at 20, but almost 90% at 0 and 40 N. The subcanopy proportion of basal area was greatest at 30 and least at 40 N. Our study produced general hypotheses. Seasonality influences regeneration dynamics, affecting forest composition and structure along with gap dynamics. Spatial heterogeneity within seasonal forests reflects local regeneration dynamics, including spatial heterogeneity in site conditions, broad tails of dispersal and establishment under a wide range of environmental conditions, as well as recruitment limitations. Structural characteristics of seasonal forests change latitudinally in ways that reflect differences in hurricane frequency. Hurricane effects interact with seasonality to influence the composition and dynamics of seasonal forests at warm temperate and subtropical latitudes, producing seasonal forests that differ from those at both higher and lower latitudes. 
10.2307/1942511|There is little research on processes limiting macroconsumer species in salt marshes. We investigated the significance of competition for space and food resources in three North Carolina salt marshes by altering densities of the molluscs Littorina irrorata and Geukensia demissa, and by manipulating Spartina litter. Morality and weight gain were the two principal responses measured. Enclosures (7.5 m^2) were used to contain Littorina and marsh grass. Molluscan densities and Spartina litter levels were one-half, control, and double control levels. The field experiments ran from February 1975 through March 1977. The overall mortality and growth patterns of both species were similar within each marsh, but differed among marshes. The molluscs exhibited high mortality and slow growth in Tar Landing marsh, high mortality and rapid growth in Causeway marsh, and low mortality and slow growth in Calico marsh (enriched by sewage effluent). In Tar Landing survival and weight gain in both species were reduced by crowding. Increasing Spartina litter produced significant weight gain of medium-sized Littorina and small Geukensia. In Causeway marsh crowding decreased Littorina and Geukensia growth rates, but increased mortality only in the mussel population. Litter manipulations primarily affected weight gain in Littorina and mortality in Geukensia. In the enriched Calico marsh crowding depressed Geukensia survivorship and Littorina weight gain. Only in the mussel population was weight gain enhanced (1st yr only) by the addition of Spartina litter. We conclude that competition for food is an important limiting process, particularly for larger Littorina in Tar Landing marsh. In Causeway marsh competition for space appears more significant. In Calico marsh space limitation in Littorina populations and competition for food resources in Geukensia appear to be the principal processes. Variation in these competition-limiting mechanisms between two distant marsh consumers, a grazer and a filter feeder, may represent different procedures for dealing with the variable resource levels existing among salt marshes.
10.2307/2937046|This study investigates the relationships among species diversity, community structure, and convergent evolution among divergent fish faunas. Morphological traits can be used as surrogates for ecological data in the comparative study of community niche relationships. In the present study I examined 30 morphological features related to the ecology of the dominant fish species from lowland stream and backwater habitats in five widely separated geographic regions: nearctic Alaska, temperate North America, Central America, South America, and tropical Africa. The study regions exhibited a general gradient of species richness from a minimum of 6 dominant species at one of the high-latitude sites (65@? N) to a maximum of 43 numerically dominant species at a neotropical site (8@? N). Fishes from Alaskan sites near the edge of the polar circle tended to be larger than fishes at other sites. Mean values for most morphological characters varied little between regions, indicating similar faunal centroids in morphological space. Morphological diversification within fish assemblages was estimated from species similarities based on Euclidean distances plus species projections on the principal axes from multivariate analysis. The total morphological space encompassed by ichthyofaunas in both stream and backwater sites was generally concordant with the latitudinal and species-richness gradient, with low-diversity nearctic assemblages exhibiting little morphological diversification relative to high-diversity tropical faunas. The Central American assemblages showed a greater range of ecomorphological diversification than African assemblages that contained a few more species, and this pattern may be related to greater seasonal stability at the Central American site. Phenetic patterns of dispersion reflect ecological relationships in which greater numbers of coexisting species are associated with higher levels of niche diversification and ecological specialization, leading to enhanced resource partitioning. Without additional ecological information, a community morphological analysis cannot directly determine whether or not increased ecological specialization is associated with the addition of new resources on the fringes of resource space or with increased subdivision of previously utilized core resources. Based on ecological information gathered concurrently with the fishes used in this analysis, I conclude that close species packing in morphological space is associated with niche generalists rather than with niche compression. With the possible exception of the two high-latitude sites, assemblages that contained more fish species generally did not exhibit tighter packing in niche space than species-poor assemblages, and this result was observed for comparisons both within and between regions. In contrast with several earlier studies, I interpret the lack of correlation between species richness and the average minimum distance between species in assemblage morphospace as being entirely consistent with the observed expansion of morphospace with species richness and latitude. Morphological patterns show that average spacing is held more or less constant as the variety of ecomorphological configurations increases in more-speciose fish assemblages. Even though morphological characters reflect community relationships, tight packing near the center of faunal morphospace actually indicates the opposite of species packing (niche compression) in the traditional sense of resource-utilization curves. The analysis supports the thesis that species interactions are important determinants of community morphological features, particularly in species-rich tropical regions. Relative to assemblages in the other four regions, the two Alaskan fish assemblages were hyperdispersed within a comparatively small morphological space. The Alaskan fish assemblages probably formed via geologically recent, and perhaps repeated, colonizations of polar freshwaters by species with evolutionary histories in more diverse southern and coastal fish faunas. I interpret evidence of greater niche diversification at lower latitudes within a habitat type as being derived primarily from the influence of competition and predation, whereas differences between habitats within regions seems to be associated with the combined effects of biotic interactions and differences in habitat volume and heterogeneity. Even though different regions within ecomorphological space were dominated by different fish orders, numerous ecomorphological convergences and several one-for-one ecological equivalents were identified within different biotic regions.
10.2307/1942337|The herb and shrub layers of the control northern hardwood forest ecosystem at Hubbard Brook contain 96 species of plants. This ecosystem, 13.2 ha in size, has a southeast-facing aspect, an average slope of 26%, and an altitudinal range of 545 to 791 m. Vascular cryptogams, woody saplings, shrubs, tree seedlings, and herbaceous phanerogams contributed 38%, 22%, 18%, 13%, and 8% respectively to the aboveground current growth in the herb-shrub layer. Ninety-three per cent of the current growth was localized in eight species in the 1966 summer growth aspect. Dryopteris spinulosa, Viburnum alnifolium, Acer saccharum, and Fagus grandifolia contributed 67% of the cover in the herb layer, and, respectively, made up 70% of the current growth of herbs, 83% of shrubs, 61% of tree seedlings, and 90% of saplings. For the ecosystem as a whole, the herbaceous layer contained 1.8 kg/ha K, 0.3 Mg, 0.3 Ca, 0.1 S, 0.09 Mn, 0.007 Fe, 0.008 Zn, 0.001 Na, and 0.001 Cu in the aboveground current growth. The herb-shrub layer responded in several ways to the elevational complex gradient. Species diversity increased by 50% and productivity tripled in the higher portions of the ecosystem coincident with a decrease in the productivity of the overstory. Increased productivity in the herb-shrub layer resulted from more luxuriant growth of species distributed throughout the ecosystem rather than from increased species diversity. Based on a phytosociological comparison of sites occurring at similar elevations but under different geological conditions, the Hubbard Brook ecosystem is placed near the oligotrophic end of a nutrient scale for northern hardwood forest ecosystems in the mountains of New England.
40385230|The abundance and reproductive activity of orchids have been linked to variations in weather conditions, but few investigators have examined the relationships between orchid flowering dynamics and the distribution and abundance of mycorrhizal fungi. We quantified the abundance of flowering individuals of Corallorhiza odontorhiza, a mycoheterotrophic orchid, over a 14-year period and mapped the distribution of individuals in six of the 14 years. For two seasons, we conducted intensive and extensive studies of the mycorrhizal fungi that were associated with C. odontorhiza. The annual abundance of flowering plants was statistically related to growing-season precipitation and winter temperature, and the distribution of individuals within the study plot was related to the abundance and distribution of appropriate host fungi. We used DNA sequencing to identify ectomycorrhizal root tips that hosted Tomentella fungi that could potentially support C. odontorhiza. We found that Tomentella spp. were distributed throughout the study plot and on all ectomycorrhizal tree species, including in areas that have historically supported few or no orchids. However, there were fewer ectomycorrhizal trees, total ectomycorrhizal root tips, and root tips hosting Tomentella spp. in areas with few or no orchids compared to areas with abundant orchids. Furthermore, one Tomentella taxon dominated in C. odontorhiza rhizomes but was never found except immediately adjacent to C. odontorhiza plants. This suggests that abundance of flowering C. odontorhiza reflects both the presence of "preferred" taxa and abundance of appropriate host fungi associated with ectomycorrhizal roots. Results of this research provide the first indication that the relationship between plants and mycorrhizal fungi may be influenced by both the relative abundance of fungi that are sufficient to support orchid growth and by the presence of particular fungal types that are especially good at supporting orchid growth.
4539086|Coastal marine assemblages are shaped by interactions between physical factors, biological interactions, and almost ubiquitously, human impacts. Large-scale manipulations of human access replicated over a range of physical and biological conditions can generate insights over the processes shaping marine assemblages. We examined the relative roles of human impacts and hydrographic conditions on assemblages of shallow (3-10 m depth) rocky reefs by comparing no-take reserves with fishing areas occurring in gradients of exposure of the coastline to dominant winds and waves around two Mediterranean islands, Capraia and Giannutri, Italy. We hypothesized that fishing influences assemblages directly by reducing populations of target fish species, and indirectly by reducing predation on sea urchins, intensifying herbivory, and causing "barrens" of encrusting coralline algae. We examined how the possible effects of fishing varied with physical exposure of the coastline. The composition of fish assemblages differed significantly between sites within no-take reserves and fished reference sites. Abundances and sizes of predatory fishes targeted by local fisheries were greater in no-take reserves than in fished areas. Sea urchin densities, the extent of coralline barrens, and the structure of the algal and invertebrate benthic assemblages showed clear variation associated with exposure of the coastline to dominant winds and waves, but weak effects of protection from human use. Densities of the black sea urchin Arbacia lixula were significantly greater along the windward than along the leeward sides of the islands, and were positively correlated with the extent of coralline barrens. In contrast, the purple sea urchin Paracentrotus lividus was more abundant along the leeward sides of islands and showed indirect responses to protection at Giannutri, where purple sea urchins tended to have greater densities at fished than at protected sites. Protection from fishing influenced fish assemblages directly, and benthic assemblages indirectly, but the latter effect was observed only at sites with lower physical exposure. Indirect effects of fishing and recovery of assemblages within marine protected areas through cascading trophic interactions are likely to vary depending on local physical conditions and on the characteristics of species that are locally dominant.
10.2307/2657188|Pollen ranges from 2.5% to 61% protein content. Most pollen proteins are likely to be enzymes that function during pollen tube growth and subsequent fertilization, but the vast range of protein quantity may not reflect only pollen-pistil interactions. Because numerous vertebrate and invertebrate floral visitors consume pollen for protein, protein content may influence floral host choice. Additionally, many floral visitors pollinate their host plants. If protein content influences pollinator visitation, then pollinators are hypothesized to select for increased protein content of host plants. We analyzed or gleaned from the literature crude pollen protein concentrations of 377 plant species from 93 plant families. Using this database, we compared pollen protein concentration with (1) pollination mode, (2) pollen collection by bees, and (3) distance from stigma to ovule, after accounting for phylogeny through paired phylogenetic comparisons and a nested ANOVA including taxonomic rank. We found that pollen protein concentrations were highly conserved within plant genera, families, and divisions. We found that bees did not collect pollen that was unusually rich in protein, whether they pollinated or merely robbed their host plant. Plant species with vibratile pollination systems, which require visitation by pollen-collecting bees in order to transfer pollen, tended to have very protein-rich pollen, but it was not clear whether this was due to plant enhancement of pollinator rewards or to the possession of very small pollen grains. We found that zoophilous species were not statistically richer in pollen protein than anemophilous species after accounting for phylogeny, although the three most species-rich anemophilous clades surveyed were generally poor in protein. Plant genera hosting specialist pollen-collecting bees did not have particularly protein-rich pollen. Both mass of protein per pollen grain and pollen grain volume were correlated with stigma-ovule distance. We suggest that the need for growing pollen tubes probably plays a more important role in determining pollen protein content than rewarding pollinators.
27646057|We explicitly quantified spatial and temporal patterns in the body temperature of an ecologically important species of intertidal invertebrate, the mussel Mytilus californianus, along the majority of its latitudinal range from Washington to southern California, USA. Using long-term (five years), high-frequency temperature records recorded at multiple sites, we tested the hypothesis that local "modifying factors" such as the timing of low tide in summer can lead to large-scale geographic mosaics of body temperature. Our results show that patterns of body temperature during aerial exposure at low tide vary in physiologically meaningful and often counterintuitive ways over large sections of this species' geographic range. We evaluated the spatial correlations among sites to explore how body temperatures change along the latitudinal gradient, and these analyses show that "hot spots" and "cold spots" exist where temperatures are hotter or colder than expected based on latitude. We identified four major hot spots and four cold spots along the entire geographic gradient with at least one hot spot and one cold spot in each of the three regions examined WashingtonOregon, Central California, and Southern California). Temporal autocorrelation analysis of year-to-year consistency and temporal predictability in the mussel body temperatures revealed that southern animals experience higher levels of predictability in thermal signals than northern animals. We also explored the role of wave splash at a subset of sites and found that, while average daily temperature extremes varied between sites with different levels of wave splash, yearly extreme temperatures were often similar, as were patterns of predictability. Our results suggest that regional patterns of tidal regime and local pattern of wave splash can overwhelm those of large-scale climate in driving patterns of body temperature, leading to complex thermal mosaics of temperature rather than simple latitudinal gradients. A narrow focus on population changes only at range margins may overlook climatically forced local extinctions and other population changes at sites well within a species range. Our results emphasize the importance of quantitatively examining biogeographic patterns in environmental variables at scales relevant to organisms, and in forecasting the impacts of changes in climate across species ranges.
10.2307/2963506|Noncyclic populations of microtine rodents may be limited within a relatively constant range of densities by generalist predators with a prey base sufficiently diverse to sustain them when rodents are scarce (generalist predator hypothesis). Collared lemmings (Dicrostonyx kilangmiutak) at Pearce Point, Northwest Territories, Canada, are noncyclic and limited to fairly constant low densities in summer by predation, principally by red fox and Rough-legged Hawks. We tested four predictions of the generalist predator hypothesis as a possible explanation for relatively constant lemming densities: (1) predators do not show strong numerical responses to lemming density; (2) the proportion of lemming biomass in predator diets declines with declining lemming abundance, compensated for by increased consumption of alternative prey; (3) predators show a type-III functional response to lemming density; and (4) at low densities, predation on lemmings ceases. The first prediction was not satisfied by the principal predators: at very low lemming densities, Rough-legged Hawks did not settle, and breeding success of red foxes and hawks was limited by lemming abundance. However, a number of generalist predators (Golden Eagle, grizzly bear, arctic ground squirrel, Peregrine Falcon, and Gyrfalcon) did not respond numerically to the lowest lemming densities. The second prediction was partly supported: all predators consumed lemmings at a lower rate as lemming densities declined. However, Rough-legged Hawks were not able to compensate fully for the declining consumption by increasing their use of alternative prey, and red foxes were able to do so in one of three years. Regarding the third prediction, foxes showed some evidence of a type-III functional response but hawks did not. As for the fourth prediction, most predators still consumed lemmings at very low densities; lemmings lacked a secure refuge. The Pearce Point system differs from those where microtine dynamics are relatively constant and nonirruptive because of persistent predation by generalists. In terms of biomass, lemmings are the principal prey for their dominant predators. These predators (the semi-generalist red fox and the specialist Rough-legged Hawk) rely on lemmings to breed, but drive them to densities too low to sustain breeding by these same predators in the subsequent spring. In this regard, the system is similar to one driven by specialists. In some winters, however, populations recover because lemmings breed under the snow and most summer predators are absent. As a result, lemming densities in spring are often high enough for specialists and semigeneralists to initiate breeding. When winter breeding and survival fail to allow population growth, hawks and foxes may fail to breed and then leave the system. Even so, summer generalists still persist and continue to consume lemmings, curtailing potential irruptive growth. In this regard, the system is similar to one where prey are relatively constant because of generalists. Community dynamics at Pearce Point can best be understood as a combination of three dominant processes. Summer predation by specialists and semigeneralists results in destabilizing declines. Winter breeding, coupled with good survival, can lead to destabilizing growth. However, this growth is curtailed in the following summer by either destabilizing specialist predation or the stabilizing influence of generalist predation. When lemmings are scarce, the semigeneralist red fox and some generalist predators rely on arctic ground squirrels as their primary prey or their principal alternative prey. The ground squirrel appears to be the critical species maintaining this relatively diverse arctic tundra predator community and the relatively constant lemming densities.
10.2307/1942433|Population dynamics, energy budgets, and nutrient concentrations were used to develop a compartment model for evaluating energy flow and nutrient fluxes in the spider and orthopteran components of an eastern Tennessee grassland ecosystem. The arthropod community consisted of; herbivores--Melanoplus sanguinipes (Acrididae), Conocephalus fasciatus (Tettigoniidae), and several of the Homoptera-Hemiptera; omnivore--Pteronemobius fasciatus (Gryllidae); and predators--Lycosa spp. (Lycosidae). Weekly estimates of arthropod density and biomass and monthly estimates of vegetation biomass were made during the 1965-69 growing season. Supporting studies included: (1) determination of caloric equivalents; (2) measurements of arthropod metabolism; (3) determination of whole-body concentrations of Na, Ca, and K; (4) estimation of biological turnover rates of these nutrients with radioactive analogues; and (5) field studies of arthropod feeding habits and food consumption. Total net primary production of the grassland ecosystem was 1,274 kcal/m^2; 89% of this total was by grass species (Festuca arundinacea and Andropogon virginicus) and 11% by green forbs. Herbivores and omnivores consumed 9.6% (122.9 kcal/m^2) of net primary production. Annual net secondary production by the insect community was 32.05 kcal/m^2. Total net tertiary production by spiders was 2.26 kcal/m^2. Total annual energy flow (= total assimilation) through the community was 75.6 kcal/m^2. Herbivores accounted for 79.8% of this total, omnivores 12.2%, and predators 8.1%. Whole-body concentrations of sodium increased with higher trophic position in the food chain: vegetation (0.43 mg/g ash free dry wt = AFDW), prey (1.18 mg/g AFDW), and predators (1.94 mg/g AFDW). Calcium concentrations decreased from vegetation (5.82 mg/g AFDW) to prey (0.85 mg/g AFDW) and remained constant to predators (0.88 mg/g AFDW). Potassium concentrations were much higher in vegetation (14.28 mg/g AFDW) than in either the prey (1.87 mg/g AFDW) or predators (1.96 mg/g AFDW), which were essentially the same. Sodium and potassium behaved similarly in their movement through arthropod food chains. The low concentrations of calcium in arthropod trophic levels and the rapid elimination of this element from each trophic level suggest that calcium is not as limiting as are sodium and potassium in this arthropod community. Herbivores, the dominant members of the arthropod fauna, attained a maximum standing crop of 927 mg/m^2 (Melanoplus = 705 mg/m^2, Conocephalus = 200 mg/m^2, and the Homoptera-Hemiptera = 22 mg/m^2). This trophic level was responsible for 85% of the sodium turnover, 76% of the calcium turnover, and 78% of the potassium turnover by the arthropod component of the ecosystem. The omnivore Pteronemobius fed equally well on fresh vegetation and on litter. It reached a maximum biomass of 194 mg/m^2 and utilized 10% of the sodium, 22% of the calcium, and 20% of the potassium which passed through the arthropod community. The predator (Lycosa spp.) biomass reached a maximum of 146 mg/m^2 in late fall and was responsible for 5% of the sodium, 2% of the calcium, and 2% of the potassium utilized by the arthropod component of the ecosystem. Wolf spiders consumed 21% of total net secondary production. Absence of other predator species in collections from the arthropod community suggests that Lycosa was the dominant invertebrate predator in this grassland ecosystem.
27646121|Determining the biological and environmental factors that limit the distribution and abundance of organisms is central to our understanding of the niche concept and crucial for predicting how species may respond to large-scale environmental change, such as global warming. However, detailed ecological information for the majority of species has been collected only at a local scale, and insufficient consideration has been given to geographical variation in intraspecific niche requirements. To evaluate the influence of environmental and biological factors on patterns of species distribution and abundance, we conducted a detailed, broadscale study across the tropical savannas of northern Australia on the ecology of three large, sympatric marsupial herbivores (family Macropodidae): the antilopine wallaroo (Macropus antilopinus), common wallaroo (M. robustus), and eastern grey kangaroo (M. giganteus). Using information on species abundance, climate, fire history, habitat, and resource availability, we constructed species' habitat models varying from the level of the complete distribution to smaller regional areas. Multiple factors affected macropod abundance, and the importance of these factors was dependent on the spatial scale of analyses. Fire regimes, water availability, geology, and soil type and climate were most important at the large scale, whereas aspects of habitat structure and interspecific species abundance were important at smaller scales. The distribution and abundance of eastern grey kangaroos and common wallaroos were strongly influenced by climate. Our results suggest that interspecific competition between antilopine wallaroos and eastern grey kangaroos may occur. The antilopine wallaroo and eastern grey kangaroo (grazers) preferred more nutrient-rich soils than the common wallaroo (grazer/browser), which we relate to differences in feeding modes. The abundance of antilopine wallaroos was higher on sites that were burned, whereas the abundance of common wallaroos was higher on unburned sites. Future climate change predicted for Australia has the capacity to seriously affect the abundance and conservation of macropod species in tropical savannas. The results of our models suggest that, in particular, the effects of changing climatic conditions on fire regimes, habitat structure, and water availability may lead to species declines and marked changes in macropod communities.
10.2307/3100069|Simulations are necessary to assess the performance of home-range estimators because the true distribution of empirical data is unknown, but we must question whether that performance applies to empirical data. Some studies have used empirically based simulations, randomly selecting subsets of data to evaluate estimator performance, but animals do not move randomly within a home range. We created an empirically based simulation using a behavioral model, generated a probability distribution from those data, and randomly selected locations from that distribution in a chronological sequence as the simulated individual moved through its home range. Thus, we examined the influence of temporal patterns of space use and determined the effects of smoothing, number of locations, and autocorrelation on kernel estimates. Additionally, home-range estimators were designed to evaluate species that use space with few restrictions, traveling almost anywhere on the landscape. Many species, however, confine their movements to a geographical feature that conforms to a relatively linear pattern. Consequently, conventional analysis techniques may overestimate home ranges. We used simulations based upon coastal river otters (Lontra canadensis), a species that primarily uses the aquatic-terrestrial interface, to evaluate the efficacy of fixed and adaptive kernel estimates with various smoothing parameters. Measures of shoreline length within contours from fixed kernel analyses and the reference smoothing parameter were best for estimates of 95% home ranges, because smoothing with least squares cross validation (LSCV) often resulted in inconsistent results, excessive fragmentation, and marked underestimates of linear home ranges. Core areas (50% density contours) were best defined with fixed kernel LSCV estimates. Fewer locations underestimated linear home ranges, and there was a subtle positive relation between home-range size and autocorrelation. Generally, as location numbers increased, autocorrelation increased, but differences from the "true" home range decreased. Results were similar for our simulations and empirical data from 13 river otters. Examination of empirical data revealed that data with high positive autocorrelation illustrated seasonal reproductive activities. Because autocorrelation does not negatively influence estimates of linear home ranges, assessment of independence between data points may be more appropriately viewed as a means to identify important behavioral information, rather than as a hindrance.
10.2307/2937274|The archaeogastropod Nerita scabricosta is an abundant and extremely mobile herbivore which occurs from above mean high water through the mid-intertidal zone of exposed rocky areas along the Pacific coast of Panama. It is the principal prey of Purpura pansa, a patchily distributed, high intertidal neogastropod. Both snails exhibit activity patterns and habitat preference which appear to have evolved in response to heavy predation pressure by fish and to harsh physical factors. These behavioral mechanisms restrict movement and limit foraging time for both species, but also result in a cyclic overlap of their distributions. Potential interaction between the two gastropods is thus limited to well defined, discrete periods. Purpura elicits both an escape and an avoidance response in Nerita. The intensity of predation on the nerite by Purpura is lessened by these responses and Purpura appears unable directly to control the abundance of Nerita. However, it is experimentally shown that in a heterogeneous environment, Nerita's distribution is still more restricted and its local abundance further reduced by avoidance responses to temporally stable aggregations of Purpura. These aggregations, centered on specific fish-safe microhabitat, are thus hypothesized to result in the creation of local patches of intertidal substrate which are free from herbivory or disturbance effects by Nerita scabricosta. Evidence from field observations and manipulations is presented to support the hypothesis that in this complex, four trophic level community, a predator-prey interaction between two gastropods can limit potential resource monopolization and affect primary space occupancy.
10.2307/2657219|A defining hypothesis of theoretical ecology during the past century has been that population fluctuations might largely be explained by relatively low-dimensional, nonlinear ecological interactions, provided such interactions could be correctly identified and modeled. The realization in recent decades that such nonlinear interactions might result in chaos and other exotic dynamic behaviors has been exciting but tantalizing, in that attributing the fluctuations of a particular real population to the complex dynamics of a particular mathematical model has proved to be an elusive goal. We experimentally tested a model-predicted sequence of transitions (bifurcations) in the dynamic behavior of a population from stable equilibria to quasiperiodic and periodic cycles to chaos to three-cycles using cultures of the flour beetle Tribolium. The predictions arose from a system of difference equations (the LPA model) describing the nonlinear life-stage interactions, predominantly cannibalism. We built a stochastic version of the model incorporating demographic variability and obtained conditional least-squares estimates for the model parameters. We generated 2000 "bootstrapped data sets" with a time-series bootstrap technique, and for each set we reestimated the model parameters. The resulting 2000 bootstrapped parameter vectors were used to obtain confidence intervals for the model parameters and estimated distributions of the Liapunov exponents for the deterministic portion (the skeleton) of the model as well as for the full stochastic model. Frequency distributions of estimated dynamic behaviors of the skeleton at each experimental treatment were produced. For one treatment, over 83% of the bootstrapped parameter estimates corresponded to chaotic attractors, and the remainder of the estimates yielded high-period cycles. The low-dimensional skeleton accounted for at least 90% of the variability in the population abundances and accurately described the responses of populations to experimental demographic manipulations, including treatments for which the predicted dynamic behavior was chaos. Demographic stochasticity described the remaining noise quite well. We conclude that the fluctuations of experimental flour beetle populations are explained largely by known nonlinear forces involving cannibalistic-stage interactions. Claims of dynamic behavior such as periodic cycles or chaos must be accompanied by a consideration of the reliability of the estimated parameters and a realization that the population fluctuations are a blend of deterministic forces and stochastic events.
3100079| This study focuses on the population dynamic effects of a pulse disturbance (a toxic algal bloom in the early summer of 1988) on cod (Gadus morhua) populations along the Skagerrak coast of Norway. For this purpose, we applied "intervention analysis" (sensu G. E. P. Box and G. C. Tiao). For the marine system studied, we estimated that the 1988 bloom killed 42-81% of the 0-group (6-mo-old) cod before the fall of the same year (with an average effect estimated to be 60%). The algal bloom had no detectable direct harmful effect on the 1-group cod (during the same fall) but was found to have a delayed effect (from 58% to 99%) on the survival of the 0-group (in 1988) to the 1-group (in 1989). We concluded that the bloom had no long-term effect on the cod. Our analysis is presented as a case study using intervention analysis within the field of ecology. Assuming the availability of both a credible ecological model and a long-term observational time series (as was the case for our marine system), we suggest that intervention analysis provides a valuable tool for simultaneously studying the unperturbed dynamical structure and the impact of the environmental disturbances. 
10.2307/3100059| Recent studies in terrestrial, plant-dominated systems have shown that reductions in diversity can affect essential ecosystem processes, especially productivity. However, the exact form of the relationship between diversity and ecosystem functions remains unknown, as does the relevance of these studies to other systems. We studied the relationships between macroinvertebrate species richness and ecosystem functions in a soft-bottom, intertidal system. We also considered, as a separate variable, the effects of macroinvertebrate biomass on ecosystem functions. A field experiment was conducted at Blackness, a mudflat in the Firth of Forth, Scotland, United Kingdom, using cages with different mesh sizes (195, 300, and 3000 m) to establish low, medium, and high species richness treatments through differential colonization of defaunated sediments. Low, medium, and high biomass treatments were established by enclosing differing amounts of ambient sediment in defaunated plots. Other treatments controlled for the effects of defaunation and caging. The experiment ran for six weeks in the summer of 1999. All treatments contained species within the same five main functional groups of macroinvertebrate, but species' identity varied both within and between treatments (thus species richness was considered a random, rather than fixed, variable). A total of 27 macroinvertebrate species were sampled across all treatments; 37% of these occurred in the low, 52% in the medium, and 74% in the high diversity treatments. At the end of the experiment, the following physical variables were measured as indicators of ecosystem functions such as sediment stabilization and nutrient fluxes: sediment shear strength (a measure of sediment cohesiveness), water content, silt/clay content, organic content, redox potential (a measure of anoxia), nitrate, nitrite, phosphate and ammonium fluxes, and community respiration. Changes in biomass and species richness were found to have significant effects on oxygen consumption; these relationships were driven in particular by the presence of the largest species in our study, Nephtys hombergii. All other variables were not significantly affected by the treatments. These results support the null hypotheses of no relationship between ecosystem functions and diversity and biomass. However, our experiment was necessarily limited in both spatial and temporal scale; the implications of this when scaling up to larger scale generalizations are discussed. Our results suggest that diversity/biomass/ecosystem function relationships in the soft sediment benthos are likely to be very complex and may depend more on functional groups than species richness. 
10.2307/2937096|Geostatistics brings to ecology novel tools for the interpretation of spatial patterns of organisms, of the numerous environmental components with which they interact, and of the joint spatial dependence between organisms and their environment. The purpose of this paper is to use data from the ecological literature as well as from original research to provide a comprehensive and easily understood analysis of geostatistics' manner of modeling and methods. The traditional geostatistical tool, the variogram, a tool that is beginning to be used in ecology, is shown to provide an incomplete and misleading summary of spatial pattern when local means and variances change. Use of the non-ergodic covariance and correlogram provides a more effective description of lag-to-lag spatial dependence because the changing local means and variances are accounted for. Indicator transformations capture the spatial patterns of nominal ecological variables like gene frequencies and the presence/absence of an organism and of subgroups of a population like large or small individuals. Robust variogram measures are shown to be useful in data sets that contain many data outliers. Appropriate removal of outliers reveals latent spatial dependence and patterns. Cross-variograms, cross-covariances, and cross-correlograms define the joint spatial dependence between co-occurring organisms. The results of all of these analyses bring new insights into the spatial relations of organisms in their environment.
10.2307/2657146|We evaluated the effects of plant functional group richness on seasonal patterns of soil nitrogen and phosphorus cycling, using serpentine grassland in south San Jose, California. We established experimental plots with four functional types of plants: early-season annual forbs (E), late-season annual forbs (L), nitrogen-fixers (N), and perennial bunchgrasses (P). These groups differ in several traits relevant to nutrient cycling, including phenology, rooting depth, root:shoot ratio, size, and leaf C:N content. Two or three species of each group were planted in single functional group (SFG) treatments, and in two-, three-, and four-way combinations of functional groups. We analyzed available nutrient pool sizes, microbial biomass nitrogen and phosphorus, microbial nitrogen immobilization, nitrification rates, and leaching losses. We used an index of "relative resource use" that incorporates the effects of plants on pool sizes of several depletable soil resources: inorganic nitrogen in all seasons, available phosphorus in all seasons, and water in the summer dry season. We found a significant positive relationship between increasing relative resource use (including both plant and microbial uptake) and increasing plant diversity. The increase in relative resource use results because different functional groups have their maximum effect on different resources in different seasons: E's dominate reduction of inorganic nitrogen pools in winter; L's have a stronger depletion of nitrogen in spring and a dominant reduction of water in summer; P's have a stronger nitrogen depletion in summer; N-fixers provide additional nitrogen in all seasons and have a significant phosphorus depletion in all seasons except fall. Single functional group treatments varied greatly in relative resource use; for example, the resource use index for the L treatment is as high as in the more diverse treatments. We expected a reduction of leaching losses as functional group richness increased because of differences in rooting depth and seasonal activity among these groups. However, measurements of nitrate in soil water leached below the rooting zone indicated that, apart from a strong reduction in losses in all vegetated treatments compared to the bare treatment, there were no effects of increasing plant diversity. While some single functional group treatments differed (P  L, N), more diverse treatments did not. Early- and late-season annuals, but not perennial bunchgrasses, had significant positive effects on microbial immobilization of nitrogen in short-term (24 h)
10.2307/1942167|The north and south edges of a mature oak-hickory forest on the New Jersey Piedmont are characterized by local-scale vegetation gradients. These gradients are determined by both exposure-induced microclimatic influences and historical factors. The north edge has been relatively undisturbed since establishment. A narrow vegetative transition is associated with the relatively narrow microclimatic transition within the edge. A low thicket of tree growth (Cornus florida, Prunus avium, Viburnum prunifolium) mingled with woody vines and herbs is found exterior to the original edge. The old edge ends about 10 m within the forest and is characterized by increased densities and basal areas (compared to center) for Quercus spp. and Prunus avium. The original south edge is found about 20 m within the present forest. It is characterized by increased densities and basal areas of Quercus spp. and Viburnum prunifolium. Agricultural abandonment about 1900 accounts for reforestation in front of the old edge. The area immediately in front of the original edge is an open stand in which both Prunus avium and Viburnum prunifolium have increased densities. Exterior to this is a dense strip of medium-sized trees which is characterized by increased densities of Quercus spp. and Prunus avium. The remaining area is composed of small trees (Quercus velutina, Prunus avium) with clumps of woody vines between and upon them. The wide microclimatic transition at one time within the original south edge was transferred to the present edge with the development of a closed canopy within the reforested strip. Few edge effects are found now beyond 20 m within the stand. The segregation of species within and between the edges is more subtle than that between north and south slopes in the region. Species characterized by shade intolerance or good vegetative reproduction, or both, are prevalent at the edges. Many of these species also are associated with secondary succession in forest gaps, but edge responses are stronger than gap responses for most species. These include Fraxinus americana, Prunus avium, P. serotina, Sassafras albidum, and Viburnum prunifolium. Among canopy dominants Quercus velutina shows a stronger edge response than Q. alba or Q. rubra. Carya ovalis shows no significant edge response, whereas C. ovata displays a strong one. Relatively tolerant species such as Fagus grandifolia, Acer saccharum, and A. platanoides display no edge response. Most tree distributions are more localized than those of their reproductive size classes, presumably as a result of environmental selection acting upon seedlings and saplings within different forest microhabitats such as edges, gaps, and well-stratified areas of the stand. Although the techniques are different, this study represents a local-scale example of direct gradient analysis in that plots (amenable to analysis of variance) are used as micro-locational indices of the environmental complex and are matched to known microclimatic gradients.
10.2307/3100044| The Quaternary fossil record of living coral reefs is fundamental for understanding modern ecological patterns. Living reefs generally accumulate in place, so fossil reefs record a history of their former biological inhabitants and physical environments. Reef corals record their ecological history especially well because they form large, resistant skeletons, which can be identified to species. Thus, presence-absence and relative abundance data can be obtained with a high degree of confidence. Moreover, potential effects of humans on reef ecology were absent or insignificant on most reefs until the last few hundred years, so that it is possible to analyze "natural" distribution patterns before intense human disturbance began. We characterized Pleistocene reef coral assemblages from Curaao, Netherlands Antilles, Caribbean Sea, focusing on predictability in species abundance patterns from different reef environments over broad spatial scales. Our data set is composed of >2 km of surveyed Quaternary reef. Taxonomic composition showed consistent differences between environments and along secondary environmental gradients within environments. Within environments, taxonomic composition of communities was markedly similar, indicating nonrandom species associations and communities composed of species occurring in characteristic abundances. This community similarity was maintained with little change over a 40-km distance. The nonrandom patterns in species abundances were similar to those found in the Caribbean before the effects of extensive anthropogenic degradation of reefs in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The high degree of order observed in species abundance patterns of fossil reef coral communities on a scale of tens of kilometers contrasts markedly with patterns observed in previous small-scale studies of modern reefs. Dominance of Acropora palmata in the reef crest zone and patterns of overlap and nonoverlap of species in the Montastraea "annularis" sibling species complex highlight the tendency for distribution and abundance patterns of Pleistocene corals to reflect environmental preferences at multiple spatial scales. Wave energy is probably the most important physical environmental variable structuring these coral communities. The strong similarity between ancient and pre-1980s Caribbean reefs and the nonrandom distribution of coral species in space and time indicate that recent variability noted at much smaller time scales may be due to either unprecedented anthropogenic influences on reefs or fundamentally different patterns at varying spatio-temporal scales. 
10.2307/2657179|We used more than 326 000 observations of temperature collected by radio telemetry from 38 individuals over three years to investigate thermoregulation and thermal relations of northern water snakes (Nerodia sipedon) near the northern limit of their distribution in Ontario, Canada. We tested hypotheses concerning the effects of feeding, season, sex, and reproductive condition on thermoregulation of individuals. The mean preferred body temperature (PBT) for captive snakes from the study population was 27.1<sup></sup>C, similar to that reported for other populations, and PBT range (defined as the 25th-75th percentiles of selected temperatures) was 25-30<sup></sup>C. When environmental conditions allowed, the mean and range of body temperature (T<sub>b</sub>) of free-living snakes were nearly identical to those observed in captivity. The typical daily pattern in snake T<sub>b</sub> was an increase in late morning to a plateau temperature in the preferred range, followed by a decrease in the evening with a nightime plateau at approximately the temperature of the water. We calculated indices of thermoregulation to relate T<sub>b</sub> data to available ambient temperatures. Despite the northern latitude of the study population, ambient conditions were favorable over much of the activity season and offered the potential for the snakes to maintain T<sub>b</sub> within the PBT range almost 24 h per day for much of the season. However, the thermoregulation indices indicated that N. sipedon are only moderate thermoregulators, and often do not exploit opportunities to achieve PBT, particularly during the day. Variation in annual ambient temperatures affected growth rates of the snakes, and was sufficient to affect the age of maturity of females. Feeding did not elicit a thermophilic response under laboratory conditions or when snakes were fed experimentally in the field, suggesting that the benefits of increasing T<sub>b</sub> after eating did not outweigh the costs. Reproductive females thermoregulated more carefully than nonreproductive females during the July-August gestation period. Pregnant females may increase thermoregulatory behavior to enhance the rate and efficiency of embryogenesis. Males thermoregulated less than both reproductive and nonreproductive females, particularly later in the activity season when thermoregulation by females increased. We hypothesized that males pursue a survival strategy following the spring mating season and thus remain cool and secretive during the later part of the activity season. This strategy by males clearly contributes to their slowed growth and smaller size relative to females.
27646103|Quantifying the effects of density-dependent and density-independent factors in demographic and dispersal processes remains a major challenge in population ecology. Based on unique long-term capturemarkrecapture (CMR) data (19492000) on pike (Esox lucius) from Windermere, United Kingdom, we provide estimates of density-dependent and density-independent effects, under the influence of individual size and sex, on natural survival, fishing mortality, and dispersal. Because survival is expected to be related to the individual growth process, we also explore the degree of parallelism between the two processes by applying the best-supported survival model structure to individual growth data. The CMR data were analyzed using sex- and age-structured multistate models (two lake basins: north and south) assuming no seasonal variation in survival and dispersal. Total survival and dispersal probabilities were insensitive to this assumption, and capture probability was shown to be robust to assumptions about intra-annual variation in survival and dispersal. The analyses revealed that large pike (>55 cm) displayed marked basin-specific differences in survival and dispersal responses to the abundance of conspecifics in which pike from the south basin show high density dependence in survival and a low degree of density dependence in dispersal, whereas the opposite was found for those of the north basin. Both large- and small-pike dispersals were found to be dependent upon the between-basin gradient in perch (Perca fluviatilis, the main prey) abundance, but most so for north-to-south dispersal. The strength and pattern of density-dependent mortality in small pike was influenced by temperature in a peculiar way: at low summer temperatures survival was lowest at high small-pike abundances and low perch abundances; at low temperatures, survival was lowest at high small-pike abundances and high perch abundances. Analyses of individual small-pike growth trajectories showed a similar modulation of the positive perch abundance effect on growth rate when temperature increases. The growth analysis also indicated that cannibalism may be biased in favor of rapidly growing individuals or at least increased growth rate for the surviving individuals. Altogether, this study provides evidence of a complex interplay between density-dependent and density-independent factors affecting survival, dispersal, and individual growth of an aquatic top predator.
10.2307/3100022| Parasites and pathogens can influence the survivorship, behavior, and very structure of their host species. For example, experimental studies have shown that trematode parasites can cause high frequencies of severe limb malformations in amphibians. In a broad-scale field survey covering parts of California, Oregon, Washington, Idaho, and Montana, we examined relationships between the frequency and types of morphological abnormalities in amphibians and the abundance of trematode parasite infection, pH, concentrations of 61 pesticides, and levels of orthophosphate and total nitrate. We recorded severe malformations at frequencies ranging from 1% to 90% in nine amphibian species from 53 aquatic systems. Infection of larvae by the trematode Ribeiroia ondatrae was associated with, and functionally related to, higher frequencies of amphibian limb malformations than found in uninfected populations (5%). Parasites were concentrated around the basal tissue of hind limbs in infected anurans, and malformations associated with infection included skin webbings, supernumerary limbs and digits, and missing or malformed hind limbs. In the absence of Ribeiroia, amphibian populations exhibited low (0-5%) frequencies of abnormalities involving missing digits or distal portions of a hind limb. Species were affected differentially by the parasite, and Ambystoma macrodactylum, Hyla regilla, Rana aurora, R. luteiventris, and Taricha torosa typically exhibited the highest frequencies of abnormalities. None of the water-quality variables measured was associated with malformed amphibians, but aquatic snail hosts (Planorbella spp.) were significant predictors of the presence and abundance of Ribeiroia infection. Morphological comparisons of adult specimens of Ribeiroia collected from different sites and raised in experimental definitive hosts suggested that all samples represented the same species-R. ondatrae. These field results, coupled with experimental research on the effects of Ribeiroia on amphibians, demonstrate that Ribeiroia infection is an important and widespread cause of amphibian limb malformations in the western United States. The relevance of trematode infection to declines of amphibian populations and the influence of habitat modification on the pathology and life cycle of Ribeiroia are emphasized as areas requiring further research. 
40385219|The trade-off between current and future reproduction has led many organisms experiencing stochastic reproductive opportunities to be flexible in their resource acquisition and allocation rules. Many parasitoid wasps display flexibility in choosing to host-feed or oviposit on a host and possess an ovarian system enabling nutrient reallocation through egg resorption. The aim of this work is to assess the complementary adaptive values of host-feeding and egg resorption as functions of host density in a synovigenic (maturing eggs throughout its adult life) parasitoid, Eupelmus vuilleti (Hymenoptera: Eupelmidae), for which there is a uniquely large base of relevant knowledge. We developed a series of models of increasing complexity, starting from a simple analytical model without egg resorption and moving on to data-rich stochastic dynamic programming models (SDP), without and with resorption. The analytical model enabled the characterization of two, long-and short-term, foraging strategies which determine host usage. Oviposition is favored at low host densities (leading to the short-term strategy), while host-feeding is favored at high host densities (leading to the long-term strategy). The change of strategy occurs abruptly at intermediate host densities. The SPD models not only confirmed these predictions, but also identified smaller regions of decisions driven by day/night cycles and approaching death and predicted major shifts in daily activity patterns according to the chosen strategy. The fitness gain due to resorption is highest at intermediate host densities, where females adopt the riskier but more profitable long-term strategy. Such a result contrasts with the generally held view, which assumes highest gains at the lowest host densities. A counterintuitive result is the higher prevalence of host-feeding associated with the ability to resorb eggs. Considering egg resorption as a last-resort strategy is underestimating its adaptive value, which is best understood with reference to other sources of nutrients. Its deterministic and controllable nature acts as insurance to forage and oviposit at low host densities, despite irregular food availability and potential death through starvation. Thus timing, not so much overall energy gain, matters in egg resorption. The approach can be extended to other situations, and we highlight an unexpected analogy of our results with the hoarding behavior of vertebrates.
27646086|We analyze a new class of models of spatial distribution, developing mathematical properties and performing empirical tests. The models are based on a simple colonization rule operating on a rectangular grid. Two special cases within the class are traditional random placement and negative binomial models. Over three large data sets, these two cases are strongly outperformed by more flexible models within the class, in particular, models that allow more general patterns of aggregation. The models are simple and broadly applicable, with only one adjustable parameter, representing aggregation. Shortcomings of the colonization rule are studied, and extensions and applications of the models are discussed.
23596740|Recent studies suggest that climate warming in interior Alaska may result in major shifts from spruce-dominated forests to broadleaf-dominated forests or even grasslands. To quantify patterns in tree distribution and abundance and to investigate the potential for changes in forest dynamics through time, we initiated a spatially extensive vegetation monitoring program covering 1.28 million ha in Denali National Park and Preserve (DNPP). Using a probabilistic sampling design, we collected field measurements throughout the study area to develop spatially explicit Bayesian hierarchical models of tree occupancy and abundance. These models demonstrated a strong partitioning of the landscape among the six tree species in DNPP, and allowed us to account for and examine residual spatial autocorrelation in our data. Tree distributions were governed by two primary ecological gradients: (1) the gradient from low elevation, poorly drained, permafrost-influenced sites with shallow active layers and low soil pH (dominated by Picea mariana) to deeply thawed and more productive sites at mid-elevation with higher soil pH on mineral substrate (dominated by Picea glauca); and (2) the gradient from older, less recently disturbed sites dominated by conifers to those recently affected by disturbance in the form of fire and flooding with increased occupancy and abundance of broadleaf species. We found that the establishment of broadleaf species was largely dependent on disturbance, and mixed forests and pure stands of broadleaf trees were relatively rare and occurred in localized areas. Contrary to recent work in nearby areas of interior Alaska, our results suggest that P. glauca distribution may actually increase in DNPP under warming conditions rather than decline as previously predicted, as P. glauca expands into areas formerly underlain by permafrost. We found no evidence of a shift to broadleaf forests in DNPP, particularly in the poorly drained basin landscape positions that may be resistant to such changes. Overall, our results indicate that probabilistic sampling conducted at a landscape scale can improve inference relative to the habitat associations driving the distribution and abundance of trees in the boreal forest and the potential effects of climate change on them.
10.2307/2937083|Observations over a two and a half year period in the Northeast United States and adjacent Canada indicate that White-winged Crossbills (Loxia leucoptera) and Red Crossbills (L. curvirostra) shift their diets among the seeds of various conifer species in a seasonal pattern. Both crossbill species forage on white spruce (Picea glauca) in late summer. White-winged Crossbills continue foraging on white spruce or tamarack (Larix laricina) until late autumn or winter, when they switch to black spruce (P. mariana). Red Crossbills switch to white pine (Pinus strobus) in early autumn and to red pine (P. resinosa) or other pines in winter or spring. This pattern of diet shifts is consistent with the hypothesis that crossbills forage to maximize food intake rate. Profitability (milligrams of kernel ingested per second) was measured for crossbills foraging on each of these conifers by observing rates of seed ingestion in the field, and subsequently measuring dry seed kernel masses. Profitability for a given conifer increases as cones and seeds mature, then declines as seeds are shed from the cones. Because conifers differ in the timing of cone ripening, crossbills experience sequential peaks in profitability. Both crossbill species usually foraged predominately on the most profitable conifer species, with switches in conifer use coinciding with shifts in relative profitabilities. However, crossbills often forage on more than one conifer species at a time, even though intake rates might be maximized by foraging on only the most profitable conifer. Predation does not appear to influence diet selection and large-scale patterns of conifer use. Crossbill movements and patterns of abundance, both on local and continent-wide scales, are correlated with patterns of profitability. Dietary overlap between crossbill species is greatest, often approaching 100%, in late summer when seed is most abundant. Overlap then declines rapidly when white pine cones open, and usually remains negligible most of the remainder of the year. Patterns of dietary overlap are a result of differences in profitability for each crossbill species that are largely inherent in the ripening phenology of conifer cones and seed accessibility, not seed depletion by crossbills. Interspecific competition is most likely between White-winged Crossbills and either the smallest form of the Red Crossbill or redpolls (Carduelis sp.) during the late winter of @'invasion@' years, which occur every 3-4 yr. Intraspecific competition is also likely to be most intense at these times.
23047557|Species distribution model (SDM) projections under future climate scenarios are increasingly being used to inform resource management and conservation strategies. A critical assumption for projecting climate change responses is that SDMs are transferable through time, an assumption that is largely untested because investigators often lack temporally independent data for assessing transferability. Further, understanding how the ecology of species influences temporal transferability is critical yet almost wholly lacking. This raises two questions. (1) Are SDM projections transferable in time? (2) Does temporal transferability relate to species ecological traits? To address these questions we developed SDMs for 133 vascular plant species using data from the mountain ranges of California (USA) from two time periods: the 1930s and the present day. We forecast historical models over 75 years of measured climate change and assessed their projections against current distributions. Similarly, we hindcast contemporary models and compared their projections to historical data. We quantified transferability and related it to species ecological traits including physiognomy, endemism, dispersal capacity, fire adaptation, and commonness. We found that non-endemic species with greater dispersal capacity, intermediate levels of prevalence, and little fire adaptation had higher transferability than endemic species with limited dispersal capacity that rely on fire for reproduction. We demonstrate that variability in model performance was driven principally by differences among species as compared to model algorithms or time period of model calibration. Further, our results suggest that the traits correlated with prediction accuracy in a single time period may not be related to transferability between time periods. Our findings provide a priori guidance for the suitability of SDM as an approach for forecasting climate change responses for certain taxa.
10.2307/1942623|At exposed sites in the Gulf of Maine, USA, subtidal mussels (Modiolus modiolus) dominated space on upper rock surfaces at intermediate depths (11-18 m), but not at shallow depths (4-8 m), where dominants were the kelps Laminaria digitata and L. saccharina. Observations and experiments were conducted to test the following hypotheses about factors limiting the vertical (depth) zonation of mussels and kelp: (1) that the upward distribution of Modiolus is limited by interference effects of kelp, or (2) that it is limited by the failure of larval recruitment to shallow depths, and (3) that sea urchin grazing controls the downward distribution of kelp. The recruitment failure hypothesis was rejected. Results indicated that storm-generated dislodgement of mussels overgrown by kelp was the mechanism reducing the ability of Modiolus to maintain and hold space in the shallow kelp zone. Dislodgement following kelp overgrowth was the most significant mortality source of large mussels. Removal of sea urchins, Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis, from the lower edge of the kelp zone resulted in the downward shift of kelp to a 12.5 m depth, demonstrating that the lower depth limit of kelp is set by urchin grazing. Storm disturbances varied in frequency and severity of damage to mussel populations, and were an important agent of patch creation in the subtidal zone. Small storms occurred on a monthly basis. Severe storms struck three times in 1982 and twice in 1983; an average of 11 658 mussels with attached kelp were dislodged and cast ashore on monitored beaches during such storms. Storm disturbances were synchronous between coastal and offshore sites. The mean density of patches cleared in mussel beds (2.5 patches/0.25 m^2) was highest after fall storms. Mean patch size ranged from 91.0 cm^2 (fall) to 122.0 cm^2 (winter). With the exception of urchin fronts at 10.5-12.0 m, sea urchin densities were significantly higher inside Modiolus beds than outside. The hypothesis that urchins increase Modiolus survivorship by grazing kelp off mussels and decreasing the risk of mussel dislodgement was tested by an urchin-removal experiment. Removal of urchins from mussel beds led to rapid kelp recruitment, resulting in a 30-fold increase of mussel mortality (via kelp-induced dislodgement) compared to control beds with resident urchins. Significantly more force was required to pull large urchins out of mussel beds than to remove them from rock surfaces outside the beds, suggesting that urchins are less susceptible to predation and dislodgement-caused mortality while in Modiolus beds. The Modiolus-Strongylocentrotus interaction is identified as a facultative mutualism that appears to facilitate the coexistence of kelp and mussels at shallow depths. The ability of kelp and mussels to recover from dislodgement disturbance was examined by clearing patches in mussel beds and algal turf. Kelps recolonized and dominated all algal-turf patches and 47% of mussel patches within 7 mo. In contrast, Modiolus did not close patches by recruitment, or by a leaning response of mussels surrounding the patch, over a 3-yr period. This suggests that the ability of kelps to bounce back from dislodgement disturbance may enhance their competitive superiority. For Modiolus, the rate of storm-generated disturbance exceeded the rate of recovery.
10.2307/1942596|The Darwin's finches on Isla Daphne Major, Galapagos, were studied between July 1975 and June 1978. Geospiza fortis and G. Scandens are residents, while G. fuliginosa and G. magnirostris are regular immigrants. The Daphne climate is unpredictably dry. The island has a simple plant community displaying marked annual and spatial variation in the foods which form finch diets. Breeding is stimulated by rain falling irregularly between January and April; G. scandens laid eggs with as little as 16 mm of rain, but G. fortis required 35 mm or more before laying. G. scandens consistently bred prior to the rains, associated with specialized exploitation of dry season Opuntia cactus flowers. The breeding system of both species was similar to that of other Geospiza species: monogamous matings on small, permanent, all-purpose territories. Reproductive output of both species varied. In 1976 single broods were produced by both species at high densities, with modes of three young. In 1977, only 24 mm of rain fell during the breeding season and G. scandens alone bred, with poor success. By 1978, G. scandens populations had declined by 66% and G. fortis by 85%. In 1978, both species laid an average of three clutches per pair, with a mode of four young per brood. During the 1977 drought, the sex ratio became skewed in favor of males in both species, and as a consequence some females bred successively with up to three different males in 1978. The skewed sex ratio retarded population recovery following the drought. The population decline was associated with a decline in seed abundance in the drought. As food disappeared, G. fortis diets widened to include a broad selection of food items, while G. scandens diets contracted to Opuntia seeds. Even in normal years, both species showed pronounced seasonal variation in feeding habits. Both fed heavily on Opuntia flowers in the late dry season, followed by a mixed diet of insects, fresh seed, and other green matter during the breeding season. After breeding, the birds fed primarily on seeds, the two species selecting different proportions of the available range of seed sizes. Overall, G. fortis displayed the feeding, breeding, and population dynamics characteristic of an ecologically generalized species, whereas G. scandens is a highly specialized species. Large variation in food supply, caused by large variation in rainfall, is responsible for the presence of only two species with breeding populations, for large fluctuations in their population sizes, and for their large clutch sizes and opportunistic breeding. Long-term studies are essential for an understanding of communities in such variable environments because some important events are rare.
10.2307/1942191|Knobcone pine (Pinus attenuata) is restricted in the Santa Ana Mountains to hydrothermally modified serpentinite which supports only limited shrub growth as opposed to the surrounding dense chaparral on nonspecialized substrates. Ceanothus papillosus var. rowaenus and Ribes malvaceum var. viridifolium are also restricted locally. The pines survive on the serpentinite by tolerating the existing edaphic conditions, including nitrogen and phosphate deficiencies and low pH, and because the otherwise dense competitive growth has been minimized. The water-retaining capacity of the serpentinite is nearly double that of the chaparral soils. This soil characteristic, the frequent fogs, the location of the pines in fog gaps, the scattered growth, multiple-trunked trees, spreading crowns, and medium-length needles all contribute to the persistence of the pines by enhancing their ability to intercept marine air and produce considerable fog drip which is readily held by the soils. The controlling influences of the serpentinite diminish as soil genesis advances. This is countered by the dynamic expansion and uplifting of the serpentine body and by continuous erosion which is linked to the friable geology, typically steep slopes, thin soils, sparse cover, and repeated disturbance by fire. The life cycle of these knobcone pines is related to fire, and its periodic occurrence is a necessity for survival. The pines possess a strict closed-cone habit, with firmly attached cones accumulating throughout the life of each tree. The seed remains until heat generated by a fire opens the cones. Cones are seldom burned, and the seed is not shed until well after the fire, remaining viable for at least 3 years in opened cones. Fire creates pioneer conditions necessary for seedling establishment. Trees have a short lifespan and occur in even-aged groves that date back to known fires.
10.2307/1942501|Carbon and nitrogen dynamics were analyzed during the decomposition of litter and roots of the desert ephemeral pepperweed (Lepidium lasiocarpum). We treated litter bags with the insecticide chlordane and the fungicides benomyl and captan to eliminate or restrict groups of soil biota. The mass losses of buried litter (51, 39, and 25% for untreated, insecticide-treated, and fungicide-insecticide-treated material, respectively) were higher than those of the respective root treatments (35, 18, and 15%) at 96 d. The mass loss of untreated material was correlated with numbers of detritivorous-fungivorous microarthropods, and only a small percentage of this loss was as CO"2: 27 and 42% for litter and roots, respectively. In the absence of microarthropods a higher percentage of mass-loss carbon could be accounted for as CO"2: 33 and 76% for litter and roots, respectively, indicating that mass loss was due primarily to litter removal by microarthropod activity and not to mineralization. Litter removal by microarthropods was less dependent on abiotic constraints such as soil moisture (r = 0.65, P < .001) than was mass loss when microarthropods were absent (r = 0.79, P < .001). In the absence of microarthropods, mass loss was more closely coupled with biomass of grazers, such as nematodes, which require free water for activity (r = 0.99, P < .0001). Unlike mass loss, carbon mineralization was highest in untreated roots, suggesting a stimulation of microbial activity by microarthropods, while in untreated litter no stimulation was observed when compared to insecticide treatments. This difference was primarily a function of fungivorous microarthropod density, with overgrazing occurring in the untreated litter. Nitrogen budgets indicated the importance of microarthropods in the turnover of root nitrogen. In the presence of microarthropods 132% of the initial root nitrogen could be accounted for after 96 d, while in the absence of microarthropods 270% could be accounted for. This net immobilization of nitrogen was primarily in the soil organic fraction around the roots and was associated with fungal development. Data from this study re-emphasize the importance of microarthropods as regulators of decomposition in deserts and suggest that predation by nematodes or protozoa on bacteria and fungi contributes to rate regulation. Nitrogen flux data suggest that when spring ephemeral plant production is high, decomposition of ephemeral roots with attendant nitrogen immobilization can reduce the nitrogen available to creosotebush, Larrea tridentata, thus reducing shrub production. Higher taxa of soil biota, i.e., nematodes and microarthropods, may thus be important regulators of nitrogen fluxes and of mass loss in decomposition.
10.2307/2963480|Studies across a range of spatial and temporal scales are needed to discern multiple forces structuring communities. Subtidal prop roots of red mangroves host diverse assemblages of sessile marine epibionts that provide a model system for examining community development and maintenance at a variety of discrete spatial scales. During 1991-1992 we twice surveyed 11 sites at four cays in Belize, Central America, to quantify spatial variability and temporal change in distribution and abundance of root-fouling organisms at five sampling scales: (1) fronts and backs of roots (1-cm scale); (2) roots close to and extending away from peat bank (0.5-m scale); (3) along linear transects parallel to shore (1-50 m scale); (4) on leeward and windward shores of cays (0.5-km scale); and (5) among cays (1-10 km scale). Although epibiont community structure differed widely among sites, all cays surveyed had similar seasonal values of water salinity, pH, and temperature. Within cays, windward sites had higher dissolved oxygen levels and water flow rates than leeward sites. At still smaller scales, outer roots and fronts of roots received significantly more light and were subject to higher water flow rates than inner roots and backs of roots. Species richness, diversity, and mosaic diversity patterns indicated that epibiont assemblages were distributed non-randomly in space: leeward sites were more speciose than windward sites, and fronts of roots were more speciose than backs. Jaccard's index of similarity, cluster analysis, and Kendall's coefficient of concordance showed hierarchical patterns of decreasing similarity with increasing sampling distance. Significant spatial autocorrelation among Jaccard values occurred at 2-3 m intervals, possibly reflecting mean larval dispersal distances. Analysis of mosaic diversity among sites indicated the absence of a clear environmental gradient and supported the hypothesis that species distributions may reflect patterns of dispersal from initial source populations. While precise identity of species was unpredictable among roots, species groups based on taxonomy, morphology, and life history showed very consistent distributions among sites that may reflect variability in local root environments: algae were most prevalent in well-lit areas and on windward sites, while sponges and ascidians predominated in leeward areas. Relative importance and dominance of both individual species and species groups changed substantially between 1991 and 1992. Representatives of four species groups were transplanted across three spatial scales to assess whether post-settlement dynamics limit distributions of these taxa. All transplants survived well for the first 6 wk of the experiment. After 6 mo, all transplants exhibited similarly high levels of mortality regardless of treatment. Overall, the results indicate that larval supply may shape epibiont community composition on short time scales and small and very large spatial scales, while variation in physical factors may influence distributions over the long term and at intermediate spatial scales.
10.2307/1942498|This paper considers three concepts of stability as they relate to the dynamics of distinctive patch types of algal canopy guilds in southern and central California kelp communities: (1) persistence of a patch through more than one generation of the dominant species, which was evaluated by using life tables and observations of patch borders; (2) inertia or the resistance of different patches to invasion or disturbance, which was evaluated by artificially enhancing gametophytes by transplanting sporogenic material, by removing canopy, and by evaluating some important disturbance processes; and (3) resilience or recoverability of a patch following a perturbation sufficient to allow invasion of different species, which was studied by defining some of the mechanisms of successful invasion or succession. By working in distinct habitats in southern (Pt. Loma and Santa Catalina Island) and central (Pt. Piedras Blancas) California, we could evaluate different types of physical stresses as they related to these stability concepts. Taller perennial canopy guilds were dominant competitors for light, but were more susceptible to physical wave stress. Dominance hierarchies in the competition for light appeared to be reversed in areas exposed to increasing wave stress. The main causes of mortality at Pt. Loma were entanglement with storm-dislodged Macrocystis plants and, in some areas, sea urchin grazing. Mortality in central California was due to winter storms. In most cases, distinct patches resisted invasion for >10 yr. The mechanisms of resistance involved (1) competition for light and, possibly, nutrients, and (2) limits to spore dispersal. When succession occurred, it was often mediated by many factors, including seasonality of spore production, which coincided with winter storm-related mortalities; mechanisms of kelp dispersal, which were most effective via drifting plants and fragments of fertile material held against the substrate by invertebrates; and survivorship of gametophytes and small sporophytes, which was influenced by local scour and grazing. Appropriate spatial scales, stability, and succession studies in these kelp communities were determined by the size of the disturbed area, which varied from the free space resulting from detachment of single plants to the free space resulting from catastrophies such as overgrazing or unusual storms. Temporal scales were influenced by seasonality of disturbance and algal reproductive condition and aperiodic episodes of cool, nutrient-rich water advected into the patch. There appeared to be conflicting morphological adaptations of the canopy guilds: exploitation of light was enhanced at higher canopy levels, whereas the lower canopy levels were better adapted to tolerate stress from wave surge. The adaptations of the algae appeared to form four distinct groups of tactics: (1) ruderals or plants, such as Nereocystis and Desmarestia, with opportunistic life histories; (2) kelps, such as Macrocystis, adapted to exploitative competition for light and nutrients; (3) kelps (Eisenia, Dictyoneurum) adapted to physical stress such as wave surge; and (4) those algae, such as corallines and Agarum, adapted to heavy grazing. Within any given area, the relative patch stability was determined by biological relationships; between areas, the patch stability patterns were attributable to physical differences.
10.2307/3100045|Butterflyfish communities vary in richness longitudinally from highs of >30 species to lows of 2-3 species. We investigated this gradient because it provides an opportunity to address some basic questions relating to determinants of community structure, e.g., are richness and abundance functions of geography or of local conditions? How are richness and density of species populations related? Do community-level processes, such as competition, determine community structure? In a broader sense, to what extent are community properties internally deterministic as opposed to being functions of higher-level processes? From 1981 through 1997 we counted kinds and number of butterflyfishes on over 2000 10-min transects distributed from the eastern Caribbean to the western Indian Ocean and Red Sea. We grouped transects at the same site into stations, stations in the same local area into islands, and islands into 18 geographic regions, thus organizing the data into four spatial levels. For each station, extent of live coral cover and degree of open-ocean influence were estimated. Richness is highest in the Philippine-Bornean-New Guinean region and declines radially from that center. Total number of individual butterflyfish also declines over that gradient. On more local scales, increased open-ocean exposure and live-coral cover enhance both richness and numerical abundance. Because species richness declines more rapidly with distance from the richness center than does abundance, across the same gradient average abundance per benthivore species rises. In peripheral, species-poor reaches of the Indo-pacific, the Eastern Tropical Pacific, and the Caribbean the communities are dominated by one or a few very common species. Butterflyfishes respond to changing richness of their communities by adjusting the abundance of individual species. Use of space by individual species decreases with increasing richness. Global richness is determined chiefly by geography; within local areas local factors are more important. Community structure is predominantly organized by richness, hence first by geography and then by habitat characteristics.
10.2307/1942425|Badger disturbances in a tall-grass prairie were used to study colonization patterns and the formation of equilibrium plant species associations in a complex mainland community. Colonization processes were described from field observations over a 4-yr period. A qualitative colonization model was developed to predict noninteractive species equilibria. Predicted colonization rates were based upon relative immigration rates determined by interactions among propagule production rates, dispersal capacities, and the source-site distances of the species involved. The immigration rates both between groups with different life history characteristics (mature prairie, prairie fugitive, and ruderal species) and within groups (K-type, intermediate, and r-type fugitive species) were predicted. Manipulation of important variables enabled different conditions affecting relative immigration rates to be simulated. Species with intermediate life history characteristic (propagule production and dispersal capacity) and located at intermediate distances from the colonization site were predicted to have the highest immigration rates. Thus, prairie fugitive forbs were predicted to have higher rates than either mature prairie or ruderal species. Immigration rates of different fugitive species onto a site were predicted to depend upon the frequency and distribution of previously colonized disturbances in the vicinity of the colonization site. In general, model predictions were consistent with field observations. The model predicted the noninteractive species equilibrium among seedlings of mature prairie, fugitive, and ruderal forbs, but not the interactive specie equilibrium among these groups of forbs. Within the fugitive species, both noninteractive and interactive species equilibria were predicted. The noninteractive colonization model was constructed for prediction of colonization patterns on local disturbances in complex plant communities, but since it utilized general life history characteristics to predict immigration rates it should also be applicable to other colonization processes. Equilibrium plant species associations were studied on badger disturbances in virgin prairie and in a less complex tract of overgrazed prairie. Peak standing crop biomass was not different on and off disturbances in either community, but biomass production occurred earlier in the year on disturbances. Although the species present differed, species diversity, equitability, and the distribution of biomass among species were similar on and off disturbances in virgin prairie and on disturbances in overgrazed prairie. The dominant species comprised 20%-26% of the biomass. In contrast, off disturbances in overgrazed prairie were different. The species diversity and equitability were low, and the biomass was concentrated in the dominant species (60%). Thus, in overgrazed prairie local disturbances depressed dominance and resulted in increased complexity of the plant species association formed. In virgin prairie alternate states of equivalent complexity resulted from local disturbances, and thus spatial heterogeneity was increased. The fugitive species comprise a guild using a common resource (disturbance sites). Direct competition among the species is reduced by spatial and temporal separation of the species. Overlap of species persistent on badger disturbances is reduced because of colonization specificity, site contingencies that determine germination and growth, and suppression of later colonists. The species guild of fugitive plants thus is characterized by diffuse competitive interactions. The reduction of direct competition enhances the formation of persistent species associations on badger disturbances, enhances coexistence, and enables species packing to occur within fugitive species guild.
10.2307/2657145|Tip-up mounds, pits, and other microsites created by hurricanes may promote diversity in many forests by providing opportunities for different species to regenerate. To see if we could detect differences in microsite preference among closely related species, we studied the regeneration of three sympatric Betula species on five types of microsites on experimental mound-pit complexes. Microsites were created by pulling down canopy trees to simulate damage from past hurricanes in southern New England. Seeds were collected in litter traps and experimentally released over mounds and pits to determine effects of microtopography on fine-scale dispersal patterns. The fate of naturally germinating seedlings was monitored on the disturbed site, and seedlings were also transplanted onto microsites to examine growth patterns, causes of mortality, and leaf-level physiology. Seed rain onto the disturbed site was abundant and spatially heterogeneous because of scattered residual canopy trees and surviving uprooted trees. Seeds tended to disperse away from vertically oriented surfaces of mounds and to accumulate in pits. Most seedlings germinated on scarified level areas rather than on mounds or in pits, but mounds became more favorable for germination the second year following disturbance. Two fundamentally different types of mortality were observed in transplanted seedlings. Extrinsic factors such as frost heaving, burial by soil and litter, and browsing were dominant on some microsites. Mortality due to these factors occurred primarily during the winter and was unrelated to seedling size. On other microsites, resource limitation (low light levels and lack of water or nutrients) was the major cause of death. Small seedlings were most susceptible to mortality on these microsites, and most deaths occurred during the growing season. White birch (Betula papyrifera Marsh.) exhibited the fastest growth and most flexible photosynthetic response to changing light levels but suffered greatest mortality on shaded microsites. Black birch (B. lenta L.) showed increased leaf area ratio in shaded conditions. Yellow birch (B. alleghaniensis Britt.) was least flexible and grew more slowly than the other species but was best able to survive on shaded microsites. All species attained maximum growth on tip-up mounds. After three growing seasons, the tallest seedlings reached nearly 3 m above the forest floor, enabling us to predict which individuals would ultimately reach the canopy to complete the regeneration process.
10.2307/2937169|The structure and dynamics of small plantations of pine (Pinus caribaea; 4 and 18.5 yr old in 1980) and mahogany (Swietenia macrophylla; 17 and 49 yr old in 1980) were compared with those of paired secondary forest stands of similar age and growing adjacent to each other under similar edaphic and climatic conditions. The study was conducted in the Luquillo Experimental Forest between 1980 and 1984. Comparisons included a variety of demographic, production, and nutrient cycling characteristics of stands. Although the small unmanaged plantations had a lower number of species in understory than paired secondary forests, the understory of the older plantations developed high species richness, including many of native tree species. After 17 yr, native tree species invaded the overstory of plantations. After 50 years the species richness in the understory of a mahogany plantation approached that of its paired secondary forest. Plantation understories had important ecological roles, including high nutrient accumulation. Understory plant tissue, particularly leaf litter, had higher nutrient concentration in pine plantations than in paired secondary forests. Understory biomass in plantations accumulated a higher proportion of the total nutrient inventory in the stand than did the understory in paired secondary forests. Plantations had higher aboveground biomass and net aboveground biomass production than paired secondary forests. Higher root densities and biomass were found in secondary forests as were greater depth of root penetration, higher nutrient concentration in roots, and more microsites where roots grow, than paired plantations. These characteristics may improve the capacity of secondary forests relative to that of paired plantations to rapidly recapture nutrients that become available by mineralization and that could otherwise be lost through hydrological or gaseous pathways. Both forest types accumulated nutrients and mass, but secondary forests recirculated nutrients much faster than the plantations, which tended to store the nutrients. Plantations had higher leaf fall and total litterfall, had litterfall with lower nutrient concentrations, accumulated more nutrients in litter, decomposed more litter on an annual basis, exhibited more variation in the spatial distribution of litter mass, and had more month-to-month variation in litter storage than paired secondary forests. Litter of the secondary forests, on the other hand, had a faster nutrient turnover than plantation litter, though plantations retranslocated more nutrients before leaf fall than did secondary forests. Nutrient retranslocation increased with plantation age. Plantations, particularly pine plantations, produced more litter mass per unit nutrient return than did paired secondary forests. Total nutrient storage in soil gave the best correlation with nutrient use efficiency estimated as element: mass ratios in various compartments. Nutrient use efficiency ranked differently among forest pairs, depending upon which nutrient and ecosystem parameters were being compared. Because of high retranslocation of nutrients, and in spite of greater nutrient @'need@' to produce higher biomass, plantations had nutrient demands on soil similar to paired secondary forests. Among the ecosystem parameters measured, nutrients in leaf fall correlated best with differences in soil nutrients across stands. Nutrient concentrations in understory species appeared to be a sensitive indicator of whole-stand nutrient use efficiency. Some of the observations of the study could be attributed to intrinsic differences between small unmanaged plantations and secondary forests, but many could be explained by species differences (i.e., timing of leaf fall), age of plantation (i.e., accumulation of biomass or species), or the relative importance of angiosperms and gymnosperms (i.e., nutritional quality of litter). The study challenges the conventional dogma with respect to differences between plantations and native successional ecosystems and underscores the dangers of generalizing about all tropical tree plantations or all natural tropical forests, or even extrapolating from one sector of the ecosystem to another.
23596742|Tree populations in mesic (>650 mm precipitation/yr) savannas of the world have strong demographic bottlenecks to the transition of subadult trees to the canopy layer. Although such bottlenecks are a major determinant of savanna physiognomy, the factors that allow subadults to traverse the bottleneck are little studied. In a landscape-scale field experiment in a northern Australia savanna, we determined the survival and growth of 1506 permanently marked juveniles (<150 cm tall) and saplings (150599 cm tall) of canopy species in response to season of fire (early dry season, late dry season, wet season, and unburned), and understory type (herbaceous forbs vs. sorghum [native annual grass]) that differ in seasonal growth patterns and competitive regimes. Trees were assessed before fires and at the end of the following growing season, without repeat fires. We used Akaike-information-criterion-based model selection and multi-model inference for data analyses. Initial height was an important explanatory variable for all responses except genet mortality wherein fire season was important for juveniles and understory type for saplings. Fire season was important to height growth of large juveniles and small saplings (enhanced the year following dry-season fires). Fire season  understory interactions were important for height growth of small juveniles and for the proportion of juveniles transitioning to saplings. Changes in stem numbers were affected by all explanatory variables. All fires topkilled most juveniles (fewer in early dry-season fires in herbaceous understory), but genet death was rare. Late dry-season fires topkilled most saplings; they failed to regain previous height and some died the following year. Given no further fires, persistent large juveniles can grow to sapling size within a year; whereas sapling success is severely hampered by late-dry-season fires, especially in grassy understory. Differences in seasonal phenological patterns of both understory vegetation and trees that vary with size and life history stage are among suggested explanatory mechanisms. Weighted averaged model coefficients for all responses to the explanatory variables are provided for use in population dynamics models. A conceptual framework links landscape-scale variables to tree attributes and responses, with implications for population ecology and community assembly.
27646062|Tree islands are centers of biodiversity within the Florida Everglades, USA, but the factors controlling their distribution, formation, and development are poorly understood. We use pollen assemblages from tree islands throughout the greater Everglades ecosystem to reconstruct the timing of tree island formation, patterns of development, and response to specific climatic and environmental stressors. These data indicate that fixed (teardrop-shaped) and strand tree islands developed well before substantial human alteration of the system, with initial tree island vegetation in place between 3500 and 500 calibrated years before present (cal yr BP), depending on the location in the Everglades wetland. Tree island development appears to have been triggered by regional- to global-scale climatic events at 2800 cal yr BP, 1600-1500 cal yr BP, 1200-1000 cal yr BP (early Medieval Warm Period), and 500200 cal yr BP (Little Ice Age). These periods correspond to drought intervals documented in Central and South America and periods of southward displacement of the Intertropical Convergence Zone. The records indicate a coherence of climate patterns in both subtropical North America and the Northern Hemisphere Neotropics. Water management practices of the 20th century altered plant communities and size of tree islands throughout the Everglades. Responses range from loss of tree islands due to artificially long hydroperiods and deep water to expansion of tree islands after flow reductions. These data provide evidence for the rapidity of tree island response to specific hydrologic change and facilitate prediction of the response to future changes associated with Everglades restoration plans.
10.2307/1942548|Field and laboratory studies were conducted to determine the mechanisms controlling P movement, storage, and export from a minerotrophic peatland (fen) in central Michigan that had demonstrated high P removal from nutrient additions. An annual P budget completed for the fen ecosystem revealed that plant uptake requirements were 7-9 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1, but 35% of aboveground P uptake by plants was returned to the peatland surface via litterfall. Permanent storage of organic P in peat ranged between 2 and 5 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 under natural levels of P input. Both microbial uptake and soil exchange capacity controlled the amount of P made available for plant growth. Fertilizer additions of 5.5 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 of P and 17 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 of N in the fen resulted in no significant (P < .05) increase in growth or nutrient uptake by emergent macrophytes as the litter-microorganism compartment (LMC) retained up to 84% of the added P in year 1. A doubling of the P fertilization level resulted in an LMC retention of only 57%. In year 2 the retention of P by the LMC dropped to 67 and 31% for the two fertilizer levels, respectively. Concurrent with decreases in LMC phosphorus retention were increased peat sorption of P, but plant growth responses and P uptake were negligible. Higher level fertilizer additions of 22 and 55 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 of P and 68 and 170 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 of N applied with minimal water additions resulted in significant (P < .05) increases in net primary productivity and P storage by Carex spp. Narrow-leaved sedge (Carex lasiocarpa, C. oligosperma, and C. aquatilis) removed as much as 61% of the P additions in year 1, with the LMC sorbing an additional 22%. Roots and rhizomes accounted for 81% of plant P storage in the higher fertilizer treatment, when surface water flow rates were reduced and fertilizer additions were sequestered in the root zone. However, seasonal dieback and leaching of P from aboveground standing plant material on the high fertilizer plots resulted in a fivefold increase of P flux to the water compartment. Microcosm ^3^2P studies indicated that most of the P added to the fen ecosystem was removed from the water column within the 1st h by microorganisms and fine sediments, and that sedge uptake was extremely low even 45 d after addition. Thus plant uptake of P is not a major factor in the rapid removal of low levels of newly added PO"4 in the fen. Selective biocide treatments used to separate the P uptake by bacteria and actinomycetes from that of fungi and yeasts in the fen surface water revealed that the latter group of microorganisms was the dominant group responsible for initial P removal. Biological uptake and abiotic sorption of P by the fine sediments in the surface waters were also shown to be of the same order of magnitude, but immobilization of P in the peat soil zone was mainly controlled by chemical sorption. Freezing of peat resulted in P release to the water column upon thawing, but concentrations returned to control levels within 24 h, suggesting minimal ecosystem losses of P in spring runoff. A Freundlich P adsorption maximum of 15 and 38 kg/ha was calculated for a 2 cm and 5 cm depth of peat adsorption, respectively. These soil P adsorption maxima are only 23% (2 cm) and 60% (5 cm) of annual wastewater P additions of 64 @+ 14 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 and may account for the 26 and 42 kg/ha of P exported from the 19.5-ha test area in the fen during the 4th and 5th yr, respectively, of nutrient additions. Collectively, our field research and microcosm studies on the Houghton Lake fen suggest that soil adsorption and peat accumulation (i.e., phosphorus stored in organic matter) control long-term phosphate sequestration. But microorganisms and small sediments control initial uptake rates, especially during periods of low nutrient concentration and standing surface water. Carex P uptake increases later in the growing season during field fertilization, but algal populations in the fen water respond quickly and absorb significant amounts of P in areas where sewage effluent has been added. Both biotic and abiotic control mechanisms are thus functional in the peatland, and the proportional effect of each on P transfers is dependent on water levels, the amount of available P, fluctuating microorganism populations, seasonal changes in P absorption by macrophytes, and P soil adsorption capacity.
10.2307/1942647|I examined patterns of species distributions in ground ants on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Republic of Panama, using baited transect samples and Berlese extraction of litter arthropods. I sampled during wet and dry seasons in 1976 and 1977. All sites sampled were under closed-canopy rain forest at least 75 yr old. More species and more individuals were collected in wet than dry season using either method. Evenness of species abundance at baits also increased during the wet season. Ant activity was higher in 1977 than 1976 at all periods; this was correlated with increased rainfall during the dry season. Measures of species abundance and activity were positively correlated with protection from physical stresses. Over all seasons, fewer species and fewer individuals were collected at drier, sunnier sites. Patterns of seasonal and annual change were similar at bait transects and in Berlese samples. Species that were both active at baits and collected in Berlese samples varied in abundance the same way in both sampling methods. Several lines of evidence suggest that moisture availability is an important contributor to these patterns of among-site and among-season variation. First, ant activity, measured in several different ways, increased rapidly when moisture availability was increased, either through rainfall or through experimental watering during the dry season. Second, moisture availability may affect the distribution of suitable nest sites. This hypothesis was supported by differences in the number of colonies collected in Berlese samples from sites which differ in moisture availability. Third, the availability of food among sites may be correlated positively with soil moisture content, but there was not enough evidence to test this possibility. Fourth, there is some evidence that reduction of army ant raids in drier parts of the island during the dry season may concentrate the effects of these ant predators in moist, sheltered areas of BCI. Establishment and persistence of a given species in an area is a complex function of the availability of suitable food and nest sites and the strength of competitors and predators. Patchy species distributions were more the result of changes in the frequency of a species' occurrence among areas, than due to the existence of unique groups of species at separate sites, at least during the periods I sampled. Thus physical conditions were probably at least marginally acceptable to a large fraction of the fauna at all sites. However, differences in abundance and activity of ant species were correlated with changes in moisture availability. I have considered four hypotheses to account for these patterns, but they are by no means exhaustive. Moisture availability, acting through many intermediate steps, has major effects on the small-scale composition of ant faunas, even in a relatively sheltered environment like a tropical forest floor.
10.2307/1942662|Pollen grains and spores in moss polsters are compared with vegetation along transects across vegetational gradients in a large peatland in northern Minnesota. The distribution, percentage values, and source of 135 pollen and spore types are traced and related to the broad-scale vegetation pattern in the midwestern United States, and to the fine-scale vegetation pattern in the peatland. The pollen assemblages of taxa presently not growing in the peatland constitute the regional pollen deposition, with nearly constant proportions of pollen types distributed across the study area. Regional pollen values are compared for several peatlands in northern Minnesota and with the regional forest composition. The fine-scale pattern of peatland vegetation types corresponds well with the spatial pattern of the local pollen assemblages. Peatland vegetation types are characterized on the basis of these pollen assemblages. Conclusions on development of peatland vegetation can be drawn from local pollen assemblages preserved in sediment cores. Pollen transport for wind-pollinated Abies, Pinus, Betula, Alnus, Fraxinus, and Typha is discernible in the peatland only within 200 m from their source in local plant populations. The dispersal pattern of Abies pollen from an Abies balsamifera stand is related to wind speed and direction and sky cover for as much as 5 yr preceding sample collection. Most peatland pollen types are restricted in distribution to their corresponding vegetation types.
10.2307/1942476|The habitat hyperspace of a south-facing slope ecosystem in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, USA was characterized by two major gradients, soil depth and soil moisture. Richardson's ground squirrels (Spermophilus richardsonii) were limited in their distribution by areas of shallow soil, and excluded golden-mantled ground squirrels (S. lateralis) from areas of deep soil. The habitat hypervolume of the golden-mantled ground squirrel included that of the least chipmunk (Eutamias minimus); the golden-mantled ground squirrels suppressed the population of least chipmunks. Deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), least chipmunks, and golden-mantled ground squirrels were the principal hosts of larval wood ticks (Dermacentor andersoni). The golden-mantled ground squirrels and least chipmunks were the principal hosts of nymphal wood ticks. The circulation of Colorado tick fever virus was maintained through the interactions of the wood ticks, least chipmunks, and golden-mantled ground squirrels. Areas of wood tick abundance were accurately described by a discriminant function of five easily measured habitat hyperspace variables, areas of virus activity with seven variables.
10.2307/2657178|When natural populations differ in density or in the dynamic fluctuations of population size, some of those differences may result from their different ecological conditions, and some may originate from genetically based differences in life history expression. Natural populations of the live-bearing poeciliid fish, Heterandria formosa, vary considerably in their population dynamics, with densities that differ between populations by as much as sevenfold. This system offers an excellent opportunity to explore the potential role of genetically based differences in life history expression in creating different dynamic patterns in a common environment. We created five different genetic stocks of H. formosa by carrying out a series of crosses using fish from two North Florida populations (the Wacissa River and Trout Pond) and used them to initiate replicate experimental populations in artificial ponds. The five stocks consisted of two "controls," which were pure Wacissa River and Trout Pond stocks, and three types of hybrid stocks. The hybrid stocks differed in a regular way in the proportion of genes from one population or the other. The crossing scheme was designed so that each hybrid stock would have the same proportion of heterozygous (or "heterodemic") loci but would differ in the proportion and/or identity of homozygous (or "homodemic") loci from the Wacissa River and Trout Pond populations. These populations were chosen because a previous study had found that population densities in the Wacissa River greatly exceeded those of Trout Pond and exhibited a higher range of population fluctuation during the breeding season. We addressed four questions in this experiment: (1) Are there genetically based differences in life history traits of fish from the two populations? (2) If so, do differences in life history expression produce differences in population dynamics in a common environment? (3) Which traits have the greatest influence on population dynamics? (4) How do changes in density affect the phenotypes of individual traits that govern the rates of birth and death in a population? We followed experimental populations of the five genetic stocks from their initiation at low density through 4-6 generations of population growth and decline. The mean offspring size differed among stocks by as much as 50%. At low densities, offspring size exhibited a trade-off with brood size: Trout Pond alleles were associated with more, smaller offspring. At higher densities, offspring sizes were similar among stocks, and the trade-off with offspring number was not evident. Stocks differed in realized population growth rate by as much as 70%; the rank order differences among stocks with respect to population growth rate appeared to match the genetic relatedness among stocks based on the expected percentage of Trout Pond alleles. Differences in population growth rate appeared to be due to differences in brood size among stocks at low density. Stocks did not differ in the equilibrium population size, which indicated the absence of a trade-off between population growth rate and carrying capacity in this environment. Adult survival and recruitment of juveniles into the adult population both declined linearly with increasing density; and stocks did not generally differ in those rates after the effects of density had been taken into account. The stocks differed in their response to the depressant effects of density on life history trait expression. The offspring size of the pure Wacissa River stock was much more sensitive to density than was the offspring size of the pure Trout Pond stock. However, the brood sizes of the Wacissa River stock were reduced much less than those of the Trout Pond stock when exposed to the same high density. These results suggest that life history distinctions among populations, both in the mean values and plasticity of traits, play a role in creating different dynamics. We discuss the ways in which phenotypic plasticity in reproductive traits potentially acts as a mechanism to stabilize population dynamics in this species.
10.2307/1942263|The salt marsh at Barnstable, Massachusetts, occupies an embayment into which it has spread during the past 4,000 years. It exhibits all stages of development from the seeding of bare sand flats through the development of intertidal marsh to the formation of mature high marsh underlain by peat deposits more than 20 ft deep. Observations and measurements of the stages of its formation are presented. The geomorphology of the marsh is considered in relation to the factors which have influenced its development, i.e., the ability of halophytes to grow at limited tide levels, the tidal regime, the processes of sedimentation, and the contemporary rise in sea level. The rates at which the early stage of development takes place have been determined by observations during a period of 12 years and the time sequence of later stages by radiocarbon analyses.
10.2307/1943075|The statistical literature on tests to compare treatments after the analysis of variance is reviewed, and the use of these tests in ecology is examined. Monte Carlo simulations on normal and lognormal data indicate that many of the tests commonly used are inappropriate or inefficient. Particular tests are recommended for unplanned multiple comparisons on the basis of controlling experimentwise type I error rate and providing maximum power. These include tests for parametric and nonparametric cases, equal and unequal sample sizes, homogeneous and heterogeneous variances, non-independent means (repeated measures or adjusted means), and comparing treatments to a control. Formulae and a worked example are provided. The problem of violations of assumptions, especially variance heterogeneity, was investigated using simulations, and particular strategies are recommended. The advantages and use of planned comparisons in ecology are discussed, and the philosophy of hypothesis testing with unplanned multiple comparisons is considered in relation to confidence intervals and statistical estimation.
43188349|Temporal changes in net energy balance of animals strongly influence fitness; consequently, natural selection should favor behaviors that increase net energy balance by buffering individuals against negative effects of environmental variation. The relative importance of behavioral responses to climate-induced variation in costs vs. supplies of energy, however, is uncertain, as is the degree to which such responses are mediated by current stores of energy. We evaluated relationships among behavior, nutritional condition (i.e., energy state), and spatiotemporal variation in costs vs. supplies of energy available to a largebodied endotherm, the North American elk (Cervus elaphus), occupying two ecosystems with contrasting climates and energy landscapes: a temperate, montane forest and an arid, highelevation desert. We hypothesized that during spring through autumn, behavioral responses to the energy landscape would be both context dependent (i.e., would vary as a function of the contrasting environmental conditions experienced by elk in the forest vs. the desert), and state dependent (i.e., would vary as a function of the energy balance of an individual). We tested several predictions derived from that hypothesis by combining output from a biophysical model of the thermal environment with data on forage quality, animal locations, and nutritional condition of individuals. At the population level, elk in the desert selected areas that reduced costs of thermorgulation over those that provided the highest-quality forage. In the forest, however, costs imposed by the thermal environment were less pronounced, and elk selected areas that increased access to high-quality forage over those that reduced costs of thermorgulation. At the individual level, nutritional condition did not influence strength of selection for low-cost areas or high-quality forage among elk in the forest. In the desert, however, strength of selection for low-cost areas (but not forage quality) was state dependent; individuals in the poorest condition at the end of winter showed the strongest selection for areas that reduced costs of thermorgulation during spring and summer, and also expended the least amount of energy on locomotion. Our results highlight the importance of understanding the roles of behavior and nutritional condition in buffering endotherms against direct and indirect effects of climate on fitness.
10.2307/1942250|During a limnological investigation of the Holland River and Cook Bay of Lake Simcoe, seasonal changes in phytoplankton biomass and species composition in the lower Holland River (Holland Marsh) were evaluated with reference to data collected on nutrient concentrations and other environmental factors. Over the whole year, Chlorophyceae comprised about @2 of the average standing crop of phytoplankton, Bacillariophyceae, about @3, and Cyanophyceae, < @?. In spring and fall, diatoms (mainly Stephanodiscus hantzschii) were dominant and constituted at times >90% of the total phytoplankton biomass which was as high as 3.2 x 10^7 @mm^3/ml in May of 1972. The high standing crops in summer (1.0-3.0? 10^7 @mm^3/ml) were dominated by chlorococcalean forms (especially Scenedesmus quadricauda) with smaller volumes of diatoms (mainly Melosira granulata and M. ambigua) and blue-green algae (Oscillatoria articulata and O. tenuis) present. Despite summer inorganic-N concentrations of <10 @mg N/1, phytoplankton species succession continued with several taxa developing maximum abundance during the period of low nitrogen concentrations. Although the winter phytoplankton showed more diversity, with diatoms, chrysomonads, dinoflagellates, cryptomonads, and euglenoids all prominent in the plankton, the biomass was considerably lower at 0.16-2.9 @ 10^6 @mm^3/ml. Maximum chlorophyll a concentrations in the Holland Marsh (as high as 358 @mg/l) compare with data in the literature from highly eutrophic waters. Phaeopigment concentrations ranged as high as 81 @mg/l and comprised up to 58%, but averaged @?15% of total uncorrected chlorophyll a during the ice-free summer period. Over the year, chlorophyll a content of phytoplankton ranged from 0.14% to 1.65% of fresh weight. Despite almost identical species composition of the phytoplankton (@?90% S. hantzschii by volume) in May and November, the chlorophyll a content as a percentage of fresh weight was almost 3 x greater in November than in May. According to the influence of total daily incident radiation and inorganic N concentrations as controlling factors of chlorophyll a content of phytoplankton, three conditions were recognized in the Holland Marsh: (1) chlorophyll a contents were intermediate in spring under highest daily incident radiation (favoring low chlorophyll contents) and ample supplies of inorganic-N (favoring high chlorophyll contents); (2) chlorophyll a contents were lowest in summer when inorganic N was in scarce supply and daily incident radiation was high; and (3) contents were highest in fall and winter when supplies of inorganic-N were ample and daily incident radiation was lowest. Inorganic-N most likely limited summer phytoplankton growth. The spring phytoplankton maximum (S. hantzschii) was likely limited by SiO"2 in 1971 and by P in 1972. The extent of depletion of soluble reactive P by diatoms in the autumn was controlled by silica concentration. Some evidence is presented which suggests that the initial effects of improved nutrient retention within intensively cultivated and urban areas on the Holland River watershed would be realized as a shift in the limiting nutrient for the spring phytoplankton bloom in the Holland Marsh and southern Cook Bay, from SiO"2 to P.
40385209|Landscape heterogeneity influences large herbivores by altering their feeding rates, but as herbivores attempt to maximize feeding rates they also create spatial heterogeneity by altering plant growth. Herbivore feeding rates thus provide a quantitative link between the causes and consequences of spatial heterogeneity in herbivore-dominated ecosystems. The fractal geometry of plant canopies determines both the density and mass of twigs available to foraging herbivores. These properties determine a threshold distance between plants (d*) that distinguishes the mechanisms regulating herbivore intake rates. When d* is greater than the actual distance between plants (d), intake is regulated by the rate of food processing in the mouth. But when d* < d, intake is regulated by the rate at which the herbivore encounters new plants. Alterations to plant geometry due to past browsing could change the rate at which herbivores encounter and process bites of plant tissue, modify d* relative to d, and thus change intake rates and the distribution of mechanisms regulating it across landscapes. We measured changes in the geometry of aspen (Populus tremuloides) and balsam fir (Abies balsamea) saplings along gradients of moose browsing from 2001 to 2005 at Isle Royale National Park, Michigan, USA. For aspen saplings, fractal dimension of bite density, bite mass, and forage biomass responded quadratically to increasing moose browsing and were greatest at ~34 gmyr consumption. For balsam fir, in contrast, these same measures declined steadily with increasing moose browsing. The different responses of plant canopies to increased browsing altered d* around plants. In summer, d* > d for aspen saplings at all prior consumption levels. Food processing therefore regulated summer moose feeding rates across our landscapes. In winter, changes in bite mass due to past browsing were sufficient to cause d* < d for aspen and balsam fir. Therefore, travel velocity and food processing jointly regulated intake rate during winter. Browsing-induced changes in the small-scale geometry of plant canopies can determine intake rate at larger spatial scales by changing d* relative to d and, hence, which mechanisms determine intake rate, essentially altering how herbivores sense the distribution of their food resources.
40385211|In this study, we examined influences of maternal traits on offspring birth mass, growth rate, and weaning mass for two populations of Columbian ground squirrels (Spermophilus columbianus). We tested relationships between maternal body condition, structural size, change in mass (during gestation, during lactation, and during the entire reproductive period), timing of reproduction, and litter size on offspring traits using path analyses. To assess whether maternal investment in offspring traits extended beyond the period of direct maternal care, we examined associations between offspring traits and overwinter survival of pups. In general, females in better condition raised pups that were heavier at weaning and that had faster growth rates during lactation. Litter size had a negative effect on mass and growth rate, and only litter size had a significant effect on birth mass. For both populations, the average weaning mass of pups within a litter had a positive effect on the number of pups that survived to yearling age. In a population for which birth masses and growth rates were available, pups with faster growth rates survived better to yearling age, whereas birth mass had no effect on the number of surviving offspring in litters. We found substantial maternal influences on offspring growth and size, and evidence that these influences may extend beyond the juvenile period and constitute influences on fitness. The key to arriving at these conclusions was to take the number of offspring into account before testing for maternal effects.
4134799|What drives community change on large spatial scales? An opportunity to address this fundamental question was provided by a massive subtidal recruitment of the mussel, Mytilus edulis, across the southwest Gulf of Maine (GOM), USA, in 1995. Since M. edulis is consumed by many predator species, we hypothesized that the episodic increase in food resources had a bottom-up effect on populations of mussel consumers. The mussel recruitment event was unprecedented in its large spatial extent, high coverage of the sea floor, and depth of penetration into the rocky subtidal zone. During 1995-1997 we tracked mussels and their consumer populations in the area to document what happened. Surveys across a 120-km marine landscape revealed that juvenile mussels covered 33-91% of the bottom (8-12 m depth) at 13 of 17 sites between October 1995 and June 1996. The cover of mussel prey in June 1996 explained significant variation in the density and biomass of mussel predators, the sea stars Asterias spp. and rock crabs Cancer spp., at 16-17 sites 10, 13, and 23 months after mussel recruitment. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the extensive mussel recruitment had a bottom-up effect on the subtidal food web. Levels of Asterias spp. recruitment, biomass, and density following mussel recruitment were the highest recorded at two monitored sites in 16-18 years. One year after the large pulse of mussel food resources, Asterias spp. recruitment was positively related to the percent cover of mussels, suggesting a feedback between food supply and consumer recruitment on a large spatial scale. Crab size-structure data supported the interpretation that recruitment contributed to the high densities of rock crabs recorded in July 1997. We suggest that the bottom-up effects observed in consumer populations were produced by increased growth, elevated reproduction and recruitment, and possibly by immigration. Coupling between bottom-up and top-down control was observed after a lag of 12-14 months post-mussel recruitment when predation by sea stars, rock crabs, and sea urchins eliminated extensive beds of juvenile mussels across the study region. The elimination of Mytilus prey triggered cannibalism in the sea star Asterias vulgaris, which contributed to density-dependent population declines in sea stars between 1996 and 1997. A key assumption of a consumer reproduction and recruitment response-that some of the larvae produced by local adult stocks of consumers could be retained in the study region-was tested by investigating the potential larval dispersal of sea stars and crabs in a simulated three-dimensional flow field of the southwest GOM. The simulation supported the assumption as 15-75% of particles released below 1-m depth were retained in the region over 2-5 week periods approximating the larval life-span of the consumers. Furthermore, the degree of retention increased dramatically between the surface (1 m) and 15-m depth, implying that the extent of large-scale connectivity by passive larval dispersal is highly dependent on depth. In this study, massive prey recruitment stimulated coupling between bottom-up and top-down forces, resulting in broad-scale changes in local consumer populations that persisted after the prey-recruitment signal was removed, underscoring the importance of episodic events in marine community dynamics.
27646045|The postglacial development of peatland systems has had a strong influence on the global carbon cycle. Peatland effects on carbon cycling involve changes in both large-scale structure and community composition. The rate of C sequestration declines as a peat deposit grows, and methane emission increases as wet microhabitats expand in area. We examine the theoretical basis, underlying assumptions, and empirical evidence for two highly influential models of peatland form and development: Clymo's bog growth model (BGM) and Ingram's groundwater mound hypothesis (GMH). Our detailed theoretical analysis reveals previously unrecognized consequences of the models and, for the BGM, unrealistically stringent conditions for application. Our review of model assumptions and empirical evidence identifies the principal limitations of these models: they ignore spatial heterogeneity in peatland structure and function, fast processes occurring near the peatland surface, and interactions between peat accumulation and hydrological conditions. As a result, these models are unable to predict the effects of bog growth on hydrological conditions or peat-forming processes. We introduce five conceptual models of peatland development that differ in how bog size and shape change over time, and we examine the consequences of each model for hydrological conditions. This exercise shows how bog height growth and lateral expansion change the boundary conditions constraining peatland dynamics, and so determine the direction of ecosystem development. We link peatland properties to the four general properties of "complex adaptive systems" (CAS): spatial heterogeneity, localized flows, self-organizing structure and nonlinearity. We also present a framework for modeling peatlands as CAS. In this framework, the system is disaggregated, both vertically and horizontally, into a set of components that interact locally through flows of energy and resources. Both internal dynamics and external forcing drive changes in hydrological conditions and microhabitat pattern, and these autogenic and allogenic changes in peatland structure affect hydrological processes, which, in turn, constrain peatland development and carbon cycling. We conclude by outlining four areas in which further empirical research is urgently needed.
27646064|One important challenge of spatial ecology is to generate models linking individual behavior to population-level phenomena. Although animals often face great uncertainty regarding foraging patch quality, earlier models explaining the aggregation of animals have rarely specified how stable outcomes are achieved through individual decisions, especially under realistic assumptions for incompletely informed foragers. We developed a new foraging model that assumed a realistic decision-making rule for incompletely informed group foragers, and we tested its performance against existing models with different assumptions by comparing how well they reproduce the patterns observed in foraging White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons). The assumptions in each of the four compared models were: (1) incompletely informed foraging with benefits of group foraging, which uses the expected gain rates for making decisions on diet choice, patch departure, and flock joining; (2) incompletely informed foraging without benefits of group foraging, which uses the expected gain rates to determine the timing of patch departure but selects a new patch randomly; (3) completely informed foraging without benefits of group foraging, which simply selects the most profitable patches; and (4) completely informed foraging with benefits of group foraging, which selects the most profitable patches, considering benefits from the presence of conspecifics. The model that assumed incompletely informed foragers with benefits of group foraging was best in agreement with the observed patterns in all of the five spatial distribution and fat deposition parameters. The models that assumed no benefits of group foraging could not reproduce the observed seasonal variation in flock sizes, whereas the models with completely informed foragers overestimated the flock size as well as usage by the geese of alternative food and the fields near the roost. These results supported the idea that the geese can be assumed to use the expected gain rates for decision-making on diet choice, patch departure, and flock joining. Further, the incompletely informed foragers showed greater disparity in foraging performance among individuals. We discuss the necessity of assuming, when appropriate, that foragers have incomplete information on patch quality in models explaining spatial distribution and foraging success. We also make some references to the applicability of the presented model in other studies.
27646027|The dynamics of animal populations can be influenced directly by prevailing resources, population density, and environmental conditions, and through the delayed effects of trophic interactions and abiotic effects on habitat conditions. For large mammals, lagged effects can extend several years back in time. We attempted to establish the causal processes governing the population changes shown by 11 ungulate species counted annually over a 20-year period in South Africa's Kruger National Park. Kudu, waterbuck, warthog, sable, tsessebe, roan, and eland declined progressively in abundance after 1986, while zebra, wildebeest, impala, and giraffe maintained high abundance levels. To identify lagged influences, we used statistical probes indexing (1) inferred changes in predator abundance as a consequence of past food availability, (2) effects on habitat conditions of prior rainfall, and (3) competitor impacts on shared food resources. Multiple linear regression models were fit to estimates of annual population growth derived from the count totals subdivided among four regions. The temporal pattern of the population declines by five species was most consistent with a lagged effect from past predator food, in addition to the direct effects of seasonal rainfall. However, models including the lagged effect of prior rainfall fit nearly as well. Species that maintained high abundance responded mainly to an immediate or lagged density feedback. Changing rainfall conditions apparently affect the relative susceptibility of ungulate species to predation. Hence, the top-down interaction with predators cannot readily be disentangled from extrinsic influences on population dynamics, mediated through resources. Population declines by some species became extreme because a prolonged period of low rainfall, especially in the dry-season component, followed a doubling in the food base supporting lions, and was coupled with widened prey distribution as a consequence of the augmentation of water points by managers. Changes in population abundance within this multi-prey, generalist predator system arose from a complex interplay between changing climatic conditions, variable food production, shifting habitat conditions, varying vulnerability to predation, and spillover effects on other species.
10.2307/2963519|Current theory on the population dynamics of marine species with complex life history patterns posits that a suite of physical and biotic forces (e.g., habitat structure and density-dependent predation or emigration) control survival and abundance in early life history, particularly after settlement. We have conducted a long-term sampling effort accompanied by a series of field and laboratory experiments examining the joint effects of habitat type, body size, and population density upon abundance and survival of early juveniles of the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus. In addition, the chance occurrence of a tropical storm during one set of experiments provided an opportunity to assess the impact of a physical disturbance upon newly settled blue crab survival and abundance. In the 10-yr sampling effort, we quantified relationships between sequential life history stages (juvenile crab instars) in seagrass beds, the initial nursery habitat for blue crabs in the lower Chesapeake Bay. Inter-instar relationships were defined as the densities of larger instars as dependent on the densities of smaller instars. Inter-instar relationships for the youngest instars are described by hyperbolic functions until crabs begin to emigrate to unvegetated habitats at approximately the fifth instar. Inter-instar relationships between crabs larger than the fifth instar and smaller crabs become either parabolic or linear functions and decay as the number of instars between sequential life history stages increases. While both the hyperbolic and parabolic functions are indicative of populations regulated by density-dependent processes, either predation or emigration, the decay in the functions describing the inter-instar relationships for crabs larger than the fifth instar indicates that the suite of processes regulating this segment of the population changes qualitatively. In laboratory and field experiments, the effects of vegetated and unvegetated habitats and size-specific predation on newly settled juveniles were tested. Tethering was used to quantify relative rates of predation, and a laboratory study was conducted to determine if tethering induced treatment-specific bias. We found no statistically significant interactions between the tethering treatment and the factor treatments of crab size and habitat during the laboratory study, indicating that tethering did not produce treatment-specific bias. Thus, tethering provided a relative measure of predation that allowed comparisons between treatments of habitat and crab size on crab survival. In both laboratory and field experiments, survival was significantly higher in vegetated habitats and with increasing size until the ninth instar, when survival did not differ by habitat. This difference explains the dispersal from vegetated to unvegetated habitats that occurred between the fifth and seventh instars. In addition, survival of all crabs was significantly increased both during and after Tropical Storm Danielle compared to pre-storm conditions. A model is developed that describes juvenile survival as a function of crab size and habitat type. Survival curves in both habitats are represented by similar sigmoid functions with survival higher in vegetated habitats. Subsequently, the survival of newly settled blue crabs is likely dependent on the availability of complex habitat. Thus, a suite of biotic and physical processes, both density-dependent and density-independent, control the early life history after settlement for the blue crab.
27646105|Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) are considered both ecologically and physiologically important to many plant communities. As a result, any alteration in AMF community structure following soil nitrogen (N) enrichment may impact plant community function and contribute to widespread changes in grassland productivity. We evaluated the responses of AMF communities to N fertilization (100 kg Nha-1yr-1) in five perennial grasslands within the Long-Term Ecological Research network to generate a broader understanding of the drivers contributing to AMF species richness and diversity with increasing soil N fertility, and subsequent effects to host-plant communities. AMF spore and hyphal community data at three mesic sites (Cedar Creek, Kellogg Biological Station, Konza Prairie) and two semiarid sites (Sevilleta, Shortgrass Steppe) were collected over two consecutive years and used to test four hypotheses about AMF responses to N fertilization. Under ambient soil N, plant annual net primary productivity and soil phosphorus (P) were strongly related to climatic differences in AMF communities (semiarid vs. mesic). Following N fertilization, the drivers of AMF community structure were soil N availability, N:P supply ratio, and host-plant photosynthetic strategy (C3 vs. C4) but not climate. In P-rich soils (low N:P), N fertilization reduced AMF productivity, species richness, and diversity and intensified AMF community convergence due to the loss of rare AMF species and the increased abundance of Glomus species. In P-limited soils (high N:P), AMF productivity, species richness, and diversity increased with N fertilization; the most responsive AMF taxa were Acaulospora, Scutellospora, and Gigaspora. Soil N or N:P  host-plant (C3, C4) interactions further modified these responses: AMF hyphae (primarily Gigasporaceae) associated with C3 plants increased in abundance with N fertilization, whereas C4 plants hosted nitrophilous Glomus species. Such responses were independent of the duration or quantity of N fertilization, or the time since cessation of N fertilization. This synthesis provides a new understanding of AMF community patterns and processes, and it identifies three key drivers (soil N, N:P, host plant) of AMF community structure that may be tested in other communities.
10.2307/2937246|Low species richness (five to nine species) and high population density (means of 0.2-8.6 individuals per square metre) characterize Conus assemblages on intertidal benches throughout the tropical Indo-West Pacific region. Data from 16 such habitats in Hawaii, Marshall Islands, Australia, Maldives, and Seychelles indicate that similarity of microhabitats between species is equal to or greater than random expectation. Significant between-species differences in zonation pattern occur across benches at a given time and place. The peak of C. ebraeus abundance typically occurs closest to shore; C. chaldaeus and C. sponsalis are usually most distant from shore. However, we found about as man significant within-species differences between censuses made at different times on the same bench as between-species differences within censuses. Co-occurring species thus tend not to use microhabitat resources differentially. Physical environmental variables including tide level, strength of water flow and time of day determine refuging and foraging activity patterns, and all species appear to respond similarly to these factors. The data thus do not support the hypothesis of temporal resource partitioning. We found evidence neither for homing, as mark-recapture results suggested that individuals occupy any convenient refuge after foraging, nor for interference competition for protected sites among Conus. species diversity is significantly correlated with (1) substrate topographic diversity measured either independently or as the diversity of microhabitats utilized by all species together, and (2) the proportion of individuals occupying protected sites. Where refuges (potholes and crevices) comprise only 2-9% of bench surface area, an average of 63% of Conus individuals occupy them, indicating strong selection for protected microhabitats. The presence and quality of these physical refuges are less important on benches with thick mats of algal turf binding sand. The gastropods burrow in these mats during periods of stress. A catastrophic rainstorm coinciding with low tide caused high mortality in an inner bench population at Enewetak, but more C. ebraeus survived (30%) than other species (8%). Tolerance to such unpredictable physical stress may explain the observed patterns of zonation of Conus of different species and sizes across benches.
4134795|We assess a replicated fire plot experiment undertaken between 1973 and 1996 in two Eucalyptus-dominated savanna vegetation formations (open forest, woodland), at Munmarlary, in monsoonal northern Australia. Four treatments, each with three replicates, were imposed on each vegetation type: annual early dry-season burning; annual late dry-season burning; biennial early dry-season burning; and unburned controls. Treatments were imposed faithfully, with noted exceptions, on 1-ha plots. Fire intensities were typically low (<1000 kW/m) to moderate (1000-2500 kW/m), varied significantly between treatments, and generally were greater in woodland. In both woodland and open forest, pH was significantly lower and NO
10.2307/2657153|The status of the brown bear (Ursus arctos) in Spain has suffered a dramatic decline during the last centuries, both in area and numbers. Current relict populations are suspected to be under immediate risk of extinction. The aim of our model is to attain an understanding of the main processes and mechanisms determining population dynamics in the Cordillera Cantabrica. We compile the knowledge available about brown bears in the Cordillera Cantabrica, northern Spain, and perform a population viability analysis (PVA) to diagnose the current state of the population and to support current management. The specially constructed simulation model, based on long-term field investigations on the western brown bear population in the Cordillera Cantabrica, includes detailed life history data and information on environmental variations in food abundance. The method of individual-based modeling is employed to simulate the fate of individual bears. Reproduction, family breakup, and mortalities are modeled in annual time steps under the influence of environmental variations in food abundance, mortality rates, and reproductive parameters. In parallel, we develop an analytical model that describes the mean behavior of the population and that enables us to perform a detailed sensitivity analysis. We determine current population parameters by iterating the model with plausible values and compare simulation results with the 1982-1995 time pattern of observed number of females with cubs of the year. Our results indicate that the population suffered a mean annual decrease of 4-5% during the study period, 1982-1995. This decrease could be explained by a coincidence of high poaching pressure with a series of climatically unfavorable years during the period 1982-1988. Thereafter, population size probably stabilized. We estimate that the population currently consists of 25 or 26 independent females and a total of 50-60 individuals. However, our viability analysis shows that the population does not satisfy the criterion of a minimum viable population if mortalities remain at the level of the last few years of 1988-1995. The "salvation" of at least one independent female every three years is required. The population retains relatively high reproductive parameters, indicating good nutritive conditions of the habitat, but mortality rates are higher than those known in other brown bear populations. The most sensitive parameters, adult and subadult mortality of females, form the principal management target. Our model shows that the series of females with cubs contains valuable information on the state of the population. We recommend monitoring of females with cubs as the most important management action, both for collecting data and for safeguarding the most sensitive part of the population.
10.2307/2963496|For the past 30 yr wave-swept shores have served as a model system for experimentation in community ecology. Due in large part to the severity of the physical environment, individual plants and animals are frequently disturbed, turnover in the community is rapid, and experiments can be conducted in months which in other habitats would require years. However, the experimental advantage of rapid turnover must be weighed against our ability to account for its causes. Only if we can predict the rate of turnover can we predict the dynamics of the community. On wave-swept shores where disturbance is dominated by environmental effects, the ultimate ability to predict community structure rests on the the proximal ability to predict the physical environment and to understand its consequences. Some important aspects of the wave-swept environment (such as the tides) are well understood, but the effects of wave-induced hydrodynamic forces, perhaps the predominant environmental stress on shoreline organisms, has been thought to be unpredictable. Indeed, the stochastic nature of ocean waves precludes the short-term prediction of wave forces. However, as with the random motion of molecules in a gas, the short-term unpredictability of the ocean's surface can form the basis for a robust statistical approach to the prediction of long-term events. This study employs the statistics of the random sea to predict the largest wave to which a littoral site will be subjected in a year ( 5.9 times the yearly average significant wave height), and uses hydrodynamic theory to predict the force that this large wave exerts on individual organisms. The result is a quantitative measure of wave exposure, a mechanistic link between local wave climate and species-specific survivorship that can be used as a tool for exploring the relationship between environmental severity and community ecology. The proposed method is tested by predicting the rate at which patches of bare substratum are formed in beds of the mussel Mytilus californianus, a dominant competitor for space on rocky shores in the Pacific Northwest. Predicted rates are very similar to those measured in the field, suggesting that this method can provide useful input into models of intertidal patch dynamics. Data from several sites around the world suggest that the yearly average "waviness" of the ocean at any particular site can (over the course of decades) vary by as much as 80% of the long-term mean. The methodology proposed here allows this decade-to-decade variation in wave climate to be translated into the resulting variation in survivorship; predicting, for example, that an increase of 1 m in yearly average significant wave height results in a fourfold increase in the rate of patch formation in a mussel bed. Such a shift would have substantial consequences for community dynamics. M. californianus is unusual in that the expected wave-induced stress is near the species' modal strength, and it will be of interest to determine if this characteristic is common among dominant competitors for space. To ease the application of this method by ecologists, a list of hydrodynamic force coefficients is provided to allow the method to be used with a wide variety of plants and animals, and several sources of information regarding wave heights are suggested. The assumptions, limitations, and procedures for practical application of the approach are discussed. The method described here for wave-swept shores can, in theory, be applied to the mechanistic study of physical stresses in other environments. In many habitats, however, multiple stresses (rather than one dominant stress) have strong effects on community dynamics, rendering prediction difficult. In this regard, the practical advantage of the wave-swept shore, where water velocity is of such overarching importance, is again evident.
10.2307/2657157|A large-scale field experiment was conducted to test whether the physical structure of biogenic reef habitat controls physical conditions (hydrodynamics and hydrographics) with subsequent influence on the performance (recruitment, growth, and survival) of a benthic suspension feeder. The experimental system consisted of restored subtidal oyster reefs inhabited by the eastern oyster Crassostrea virginica. To determine whether the size of reefs influences the flow environment and oyster performance, reefs of four heights-tall (2 m), short (1 m), dredged (0.6 m), and low (0.1 m)-were constructed at 3-m water depth in the Neuse River estuary, North Carolina, USA. To test whether oyster performance varies with water depth and hydrographic conditions, tall and short reefs were also constructed at 6-m water depth. Flow speed, sedimentation, temperature, salinity, dissolved oxygen, and the performance of oysters were measured as a function of reef height, position on reef, and water depth over a 10-mo period. Flow speed was found to increase on reefs with reef height and elevation on reefs. Rates of sediment deposition were seasonally highest where flow speed was lowest, at the bases of reefs, and seasonally decreased with increasing water depth. More than 90% of the surface area of low reefs was buried after only 16 mo of exposure in the estuary, indicating that reef height controls habitat quality (and quantity) indirectly through its effect on flow. Short reefs and the bases of tall reefs at 6-m depth were exposed to a total of 26 d of hypoxia/anoxia. No other reef treatment was exposed to >5 d of hypoxia. Physical conditions on experimental reefs had a profound influence on the performance of oysters as the flow environment alone explained 81% of variability in oyster growth and mortality. Recruitment of oysters over a 2-mo period was slightly higher on the front bases than the crests of reefs, but did not vary with reef height or water depth. After 10 mo, the shell growth and condition index of genetically similar, hatchery-raised oysters were greatest on the crests of tall and short reefs, where flow speed and quality of suspended food material were highest, and sediment deposition was lowest. Growth was greatest overall at the crests of tall reefs located at 6-m water depth where flow speed was high, and the numbers of days exposed to hypoxia/anoxia and variation in salinity were lowest. Total percentage mortality of oysters after 10 mo was greater on low reefs located at 3-m depth than on all other reef types and was greater on the bases than crests of tall, short, and dredged reefs. Predation by crabs and fishes accounted for 4-20% of total oyster mortality and showed no pattern across reef treatments. Results of this experiment indicate (1) that the physical structure and location of biogenic habitat controls local physical variables and (2) that, in turn, physical variables, especially flow speed, have a profound influence on the performance of a resident species. Realization that an ecological function of habitat is to indirectly control local population production through physical-biological coupling should improve our ability to conserve, restore, and manage habitat and associated species diversity. Better ecological engineering of restored oyster reef habitat is likely to improve fishery production and help maintain estuarine biodiversity.
23596923|Ecotones are important landscape features where there is a transition between adjoining ecosystems. However, there are few generalized hypotheses about the response of communities to ecotones, except for a proposed increase in species richness that receives varying empirical support. Based on the assumption that transport of abiotic material and dispersal of organism propagules across ecotones are independent processes, we propose the new hypothesis that ecotones decouple communityenvironment relationships, increasing the importance of spatial structure that is independent of the environment. We tested this hypothesis by examining the effects of ecotones on relationships between trees and soil properties in a temperate deciduous forest. The study area included different landforms defined by topography, hydrology, and geomorphology, which we designated upland, bottomland, and riparian forests. The site also included a mowed herbaceous corridor. We found that soil properties and tree community composition significantly differed among landforms, and thus they could be treated as differing ecosystem types. However, inclusion of plots near ecotones significantly reduced the variance explained by landform due to introduction of increased noise, increased similarity of ecotone plots in different landforms, or both. To examine tree communitysoil environment relationships, factorial kriging analysis was used to decompose variation in soil properties into structures associated with differing spatial scales, which were then used as predictors of tree composition using redundancy analysis. In agreement with the ecotone-decoupling hypothesis, we found that ecotones introduced significant unexplained variation into correlations between tree community composition and soil properties. In addition, spatial variation in tree community composition that was independent of soil properties was only detected when ecotones were included in the analysis, and little variation in tree community composition was attributed to small-scale soil property structures. Together, these results indicate that dispersal limitation and mass effects in the tree community take on increased importance near ecotones. We found no consistent changes in tree species richness associated with ecotones, and we suggest that the ecotone-decoupling hypothesis may correspond with a more general community-level pattern that warrants further testing. Decoupling of communityenvironment relationships near ecotones also has important implications for accuracy of models predicting community distributions from abiotic information.
10.2307/2657200|In many mesic forests the dominant trees are limited concurrently by light and soil resources, and understanding the mechanisms of competition and predicting outcomes of competition are especially difficult when co-limitation exists. We altered soil resource availability during the early stages of stand development after clearcutting of northern hard-wood forests to examine the mechanism of competition. Specifically, we sought empirical evidence about the role of various physiological, morphological, allocational, and architectural responses in regulating plant competition. We expected the competitive ability of the extreme pioneer species, Prunus pensylvanica (pin cherry), to be enhanced by increased nutrient supply, with consequent effects at the community and ecosystem levels of organization. Nutrient availability was increased by about three-fold by monthly fertilization for 6 yr in nine even-aged northern hardwood stands dominated by pin cherry, three each of three ages (6, 12, and 18 yr at initiation of the experiment). Measurements in the control plots indicated that the interval of stand development from age 6 to 23 yr was marked by a peak in basal area and leaf area of pin cherry at about age 17 yr, followed by a steady decline in P. pensylvanica dominance thereafter. Fertilization increased and prolonged the dominance of P. pensylvanica, indicating that nutrient limitation accelerates the demise of this species during the second and third decades of stand development. All species in the plots responded to fertilization with increased foliar nutrient (N, P, and K) concentrations and often higher specific leaf area (area: mass ratio), and these responses were most pronounced for P. pensylvanica. Although the light-response curve for photosynthesis of P. pensylvanica was altered by fertilization, with higher rates at low light levels, photosynthesis of its principal competitor, Betula papyrifera, was not affected. The marked growth response of P. pensylvanica was accompanied by changes in its canopy architecture, as the trees had more leaf area per unit stem basal area, and proportionally more of this leaf area was in the upper canopy. In contrast, height and leaf area of B. papyrifera were similar in the control and fertilized plots. Seed deposition of P. pensylvanica also increased in the fertilized plots during one year of high seed production. Thus, the performance in competition of P. pensylvanica was improved by the removal of apparent nutrient limitations on its physiological performance, canopy growth, and ability to compete for light. Leaf area index of the fertilized plots was only slightly higher than the control plots, and the same was true for stand basal area. The removal of nutrient limitation increased the intensity of one-sided competition for light by concentrating the dominance among the largest trees; consequently, very high mortality of suppressed stems of all species occurred. The increased dominance of the fast-growing P. pensylvanica contributed to increases in aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) in the fertilized plots. Some of this ANPP response was probably associated with reduced C allocation to roots in some of the fertilized plots, but this pattern was not consistent across all the stands. The results indicate that the outcome of interspecific competition in mesic forests, where co-limitation by light and soil resources prevails, depends upon the effect of site quality upon the relative intensity of one-sided competition (for light).
27646025|We asked how the richness of the specialized (endemic) flora of serpentine rock outcrops in California varies at both the regional and local scales. Our study had two goals: first, to test whether endemic richness is affected by spatial habitat structure (e.g., regional serpentine area, local serpentine outcrop area, regional and local measures of outcrop isolation), and second, to conduct this test in the context of a broader assessment of environmental influences (e.g., climate, soils, vegetation, disturbance) and historical influences (e.g., geologic age, geographic province) on local and regional species richness. We measured endemic and total richness and environmental variables in 109 serpentine sites (1000-m2 paired plots) in 78 serpentine-containing regions of the state. We used structural equation modeling (SEM) to simultaneously relate regional richness to regionalscale predictors, and local richness to both local-scale and regional-scale predictors. Our model for serpentine endemics explained 66% of the variation in local endemic richness based on local environment (vegetation, soils, rock cover) and on regional endemic richness. It explained 73% of the variation in regional endemic richness based on regional environment (climate and productivity), historical factors (geologic age and geographic province), and spatial structure (regional total area of serpentine, the only significant spatial variable in our analysis). We did not find a strong influence of spatial structure on species richness. However, we were able to distinguish local vs. regional influences on species richness to a novel extent, despite the existence of correlations between local and regional conditions.
10.2307/2937304|In a previous study it was demonstrated that a major selection pressure responsible for seasonal changes in the searching and oviposition preferences of the pipevine swallowtail butterfly, Battus philenor (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae), is a seasonal increase in the disappearance rate of early-instar larvae from one of their two host plants in east Texas, Aristolochia reticulata (Aristolochiaceae). The primary objective of this study was to determine the causes, both proximate and ultimate, of that increased disappearance rate. The results may be summarized as follows: 1) The seasonal increase in disappearance rates of larvae feeding on A. reticulata plants is due primarily to a decrease in the size at which larvae disperse from their original host plant. No seasonal increase in the intensity of predation on larvae was detected. 2) Larvae readily consume the young foliage of A. reticulata plants but seldom accept mature foliage. 3) The amount of A. reticulata foliage that is acceptable to larvae decreases between early April and late May. This decrease explains the seasonal decrease in the size at which larvae disperse from their original host plant. 4) Growth rates, corrected for variation in consumption rates, are much lower for larvae fed mature leaves than for larvae fed young leaves. 5) Poor larval growth on mature leaves appears to be due to two effects of sclerophyllization: low nitrogen content and increased toughness. No effects of digestibility-reducing plant secondary compounds were detected. 6) For A. reticulata plants in the field, the probability that a leaf will be eaten once it is discovered by a larva is lower for mature leaves than for young leaves. 7) For A. serpentaria plants, which grow sympatrically with A. reticulata, mature leaves and young leaves are equally acceptable to larvae. Mature A. serpentaria leaves are not markedly sclerophyllous. These results indicate that the causes of the observed seasonal increase in disappearance rates of larvae on A. reticulata can be traced ultimately to changes in the nutritional content of the foliage as it ages. They also suggest that a seasonal deterioration in the nutritional quality of A. reticulata foliage is a major selection pressure leading to the observed seasonal shift in the searching and oviposition preferences of females from A. reticulata in the early spring to A. serpentaria late in the spring. Finally, the results provide evidence supporting the contention that an important ecological function of sclerophylly is to defend plants from herbivores.
10.2307/2937038|Three alluvial piedmonts (bajadas or alluvial fans) studied in the Sonoran Desert near Tucson, Arizona are complex mosaics of distinct geological landforms. These landscape mosaics have been produced through the temporally episodic and spatially discontinuous aggradation of alluvial surfaces and the destruction of other parts of the landscape by erosion. These geomorphic processes produce abrupt juxtapositions of soils of different ages and degrees of profile development. Vegetation patterns correspond closely to this geomorphic mosaic. Larrea tridentata predominates on most Holocene-aged surfaces and all parts of highly dissected, early Pleistocene surfaces. This shrub is generally excluded from Pleistocene-aged surfaces containing soils with strongly developed argillic (clay-rich) horizons. The highest species diversity is encountered on some of the most unstable, erosional slopes of early Pleistocene surfaces. Comparisons among the three study areas indicated the importance of igneous lithology (highly weatherable intrusives vs. weathering-resistant extrusives) in controlling geomorphic processes, and ultimately, vegetation patterns. The areal extent of late Holocene alluvial aggradation and patterns of erosion and dissection of older Pleistocene deposits are strongly influenced by the weatherability of different lithologies and provide a strong control over the spatial scale of ecological patterns. Processes limiting the distributions and abundances of plants are directly linked to landscape characteristics in many ways. Landform age and stability affect the structure of populations of long-lived Larrea tridentata. Individuals of this shrub species can exhibit clone-like growth and increase considerably in size (diameter) over time spans of many centuries to millennia. The growth and persistence of these long-lived clones in some parts of the landscape apparently contribute to the exclusion of other species. However, development of large clones and dominance by L. tridentata are impossible or greatly inhibited in several landscape settings including: (1) extremely young alluvial deposits that have existed for too short a time for large clones to have developed, (2) hillslopes subject to considerable erosional disturbance, and (3) extremely thin soils underlain by impenetrable petrocalcic horizons (caliche), which magnify drought conditions and apparently contribute to episodic mortality in L. tridentata. Soil horizon development as determined by landform age controls the vertical movement and distribution of soil water, in turn affecting the distribution of various plant life forms. Clay-rich (argillic) horizons that have required tens to hundreds of thousands of years to form greatly limit the downward infiltration, vertical distribution, and the temporal availability of soil water. Despite surficial stability for extremely long periods of times, sites with strongly developed argillic horizons lack L. tridentata and are instead occupied by drought-deciduous or succulent plants that are capable of highly seasonal activity in soils that exhibit high seasonal variability in water availability. Syntheses involving the study of various ecological processes (e.g., plant physiological, demographic, and interspecific interactions) with a larger landscape perspective provide a rich framework for further studies of arid land systems.
10.2307/3100024|Two key linked questions in population dynamics are the relative importance of noise vs. density-dependent nonlinearities and the limits on temporal predictability of population abundance. We propose that childhood microparasitic infections, notably measles, provide an unusually suitable empirical and theoretical test bed for addressing these issues. We base our analysis on a new mechanistic time series model for measles, the TSIR model, which captures the mechanistic essence of epidemic dynamics. The model, and parameter estimates based on short-term fits to prevaccination measles time series for 60 towns and cities in England and Wales, is introduced in a companion paper. Here, we explore how well the model predicts the long-term dynamics of measles and the balance between noise and determinism, as a function of population size. The TSIR model captures the basic dynamical features of the long-term pattern of measles epidemics in large cities remarkably well (based on time and frequency domain analyses). In particular, the model illustrates the impact of secular increases in birth rates, which cause a transition from biennial to annual dynamics. The model also captures the observed increase in epidemic irregularity with decreasing population size and the onset of local extinction below a critical community size. Decreased host population size is shown to be associated with an increased impact of demographic stochasticity. The interaction between nonlinearity and noise is explored using local Lyapunov exponents (LLE). These testify to the high level of stability of the biennial attractor in large cities. Irregularities are due to the limit cycle evolving with changing human birth rates and not due to complex dynamics. The geometry of the dynamics (sign and magnitude of the LLEs across phase space) is similar in the cities and the smaller urban areas. The qualitative difference in dynamics between small and large host communities is that demographic and extinction-recolonization stochasticities are much more influential in the former. The regional dynamics can therefore only be understood in terms of a core-satellite metapopulation structure for this host-enemy system. We also make a preliminary exploration of the model's ability to predict the dynamic consequences of measles vaccination.
10.2307/2937295| Pion Jays (Gymnorhinus cyanoephalus) and pion pine trees (Pinus edulis) interact in a mutualistic fashion, in that the jays provide a primary means of seed dissemination for pion trees in the Southwest, while at irregular intervals the trees provide the jays with an abundant and highly nutritious source of food. Availability of pion seeds permits both late winter (February) and late summer (August) breeding by the jays. Seeds and photoperiod interact synergistically to accelerate gonadal development in late winter. When seeds are abundant, considerable testis growth takes place in some Pion Jay @M @M even before the winter solstice. This relationship was investigated experimentally. Use of a specific food (pion seeds) as a proximate timer for breeding, the ability of individual jays to breed in spring, molt, and breed again in August without an intervening period of gonadal refractoriness, and testicular development in early December, when day length approaches its minimum, are extraordinary characteristics among north-temperate-zone passerine birds. The synchrony of seed production by pion pines over large geographic areas is interpreted as an evolved mechanism that (1) overwhelms invertebrate seed and cone predators, and (2) increases the numbers of seeds per tree that will be cached by Pion Jays and other vertebrates. Caching sites of Pion Jays are often at locations especially conducive to germination and growth of pion pine seedlings. 
10.2307/1942169|Analysis of a 28-m core from a relict fresh-water lake in Kenya had provided a detailed limnologic and climatic history covering 9,200 years. The core is an incomplete section through the sediments of a submerged crater near the eastern shore of Lake Naivasha. The overall sedimentation rate, 0.33 cm wet sediment per year, is the most rapid on record for a lake whose sediments are essentially autochthonous and organic. A three-stage limnologic history is inferred from the microfossils (particularly diatoms), chemistry, and mineralogy of the core: (A) From before 9,200 B.P. until about 5,650 B.P. a lake significantly larger than the present one existed in the basin. Algal productivity was high, and the water temperature was probably above the present average. The surface waters of this lake were evidently depleted in silica, suggesting some stratification, but the total ion content was not far below today's (B) Between 5,650 B.P. and 3,040 B.P. the lake shrank, aquatic macrophytes increased in abundance near the core site, and the water grew more dilute. The crater became isolated from the main lake and finally dried briefly. (C) For the past 3,000 years a small lake has existed in the basin. It has been frequently smaller and its water sometimes much more concentrated than that of the modern lake. The lake discharged through a southern outlet prior to 5,650 B.P., but since that time has had no surface outlet. Various freshening mechanisms have operated during the past 5,000 years, probably including deflation, burial of alkaline layers, underground seepage, and perhaps ion removal by aquatic plants. The climate during the period of the large lake (Leakey's Gamblian Pluvial period) was much wetter and probably warmer than today, and rainfall at Naivasha was more seasonal. Rainfall was perhaps 65% above the modern average. We find no convincing evidence for an early post-Gamblian wet phase, the Makalian, proposed by earlier workers for this region. A later wet phase, the Nakuran, may be represented by the small, fluctuating lake of the past 3,000 years, but this lake probably never stood as high as the strandline previously assigned to the Nakuran. The climatic inferences from this study are in substantial agreement, but provide interesting points of contrast, with those from other recent investigations in sub-Saharan Africa.
4539091|Isotope pool dilution studies are increasingly reported in the soils and ecology literature as a means of measuring gross rates of nitrogen (N) mineralization, nitrification, and inorganic N assimilation in soils. We assembled data on soil characteristics and gross rates from 100 studies conducted in forest, shrubland, grassland, and agricultural systems to answer the following questions: What factors appear to be the major drivers for production and consumption of inorganic N as measured by isotope dilution studies? Do rates or the relationships between drivers and rates differ among ecosystem types? Across a wide range of ecosystems, gross N mineralization is positively correlated with microbial biomass and soil C and N concentrations, while soil C:N ratio exerts a negative effect on N mineralization only after adjusting for differences in soil C. Nitrification is a log-linear function of N mineralization, increasing rapidly at low mineralization rates but changing only slightly at high mineralization rates. In contrast, NH
23206687|Planted pine forests (plantations) in the southeastern United States are an important component of the continent's carbon balance. Forest carbon dynamics are affected by a range of factors including climatic variability. Multiyear droughts have affected the region in the past, and an increase in the frequency of drought events has been predicted. How this increased climatic variability will affect the capacity of the region's pine plantations to sequester carbon is not known. We used eddy covariance and biometric approaches to measure carbon dynamics over nine years in two slash pine plantations (Pinus elliottii var elliottii Englm) in north Florida, consisting of a newly planted and a mid-rotation stand. During this time, the region experienced two multiyear droughts (19992002 and 20062008), separated by a three-year wet period. Net ecosystem carbon accumulation measured using both approaches showed the same trends and magnitudes during plantation development. The newly planted site released 15.6 Mg C/ha during the first three years after planting, before becoming a carbon sink in year 4. Increases in carbon uptake during the early stages of stand development were driven by the aggrading leaf area index (LAI). After canopy closure, both sites were continuous carbon sinks with net carbon uptake (NEE) fluctuating between 4 and 8 Mg Cha -1 yr -1 , depending on environmental conditions. Drought reduced NEE by 25% through its negative effects on both LAI and radiation-use efficiency, which resulted in a larger impact on gross ecosystem carbon exchange than on ecosystem respiration. While results indicate that responses to drought involved complex interactions among water availability, LAI, and radiation-use efficiency, these ecosystems remain carbon sinks under current management strategies and climatic variability. Variation within locations is primarily due to major disturbances, such as logging in the current study and, to a much lesser extent, local environmental fluctuations. When data from this study are compared to flux data from a broad range of forests worldwide, these ecosystems fill a data gap in the warm-temperate zone and support a broad maximum NEE (for closed-canopy forests) between 8C and 20C mean annual temperature.
10.2307/2657231|Leaf structural and chemical characteristics were compared in pairs of species that were phylogenetically independently contrasted along rainfall gradients (10 pairs) or soil nutrient gradients (9 pairs), using perennial plants in New South Wales, Australia. The objective was to test hypotheses regarding leaf attributes that should be successful in sustaining populations in vegetation at lower vs. higher rainfall or lower vs. higher soil nutrients, and especially to assess the proposition that lower rainfall and lower soil nutrients favor similar shifts in leaf attributes, and in this sense can be grouped together as sources of "stress." Some evolutionary divergences in leaf structure occurred repeatedly toward the lower end of both rainfall and soil nutrient gradients. These include narrower leaves, lower specific leaf area (SLA), thicker lamina, and denser leaf tissue. In other respects, the different resource gradients appeared to favor different leaf attributes. In 8 of 10 contrasts, plants of low-water environments had more sclerified vasculature than their relatives on higher rainfall sites. This may be an adaptation to resist wilting and so mitigate cell damage. In 9 of 10 contrasts, plants of low-water environments had more nitrogen per unit leaf area than their relatives in high-rainfall sites. This may be to exploit higher light availability in arid communities. In 7 of 9 contrasts, plants from low soil nutrient environments had thicker epidermis than their relatives on higher nutrient soils. In 8 of 9 soil nutrient contrasts, leaf nitrogen concentration was lower in the low-nutrient species, and consequently, the ratios of phenol/N and tannin/N were higher. Thicker epidermis and increased defense/N ratios may reduce herbivory and thereby reduce demand on soil nutrients required to replace leaves.
10.2307/1942616|Solar radiation was measured within and above an east Tennessee deciduous forest over a 2-yr period. Diurnal patterns of within-forest radiation follow the temporal variation in incident radiation but become more irregular with depth in the forest because of the highly variable penetration of beam radiation in space and in time. Seasonally, radiation in the forest increases substantially from winter to its annual maximum in early spring as solar elevations increase. Although solar elevations continue to rise each day until the summer solstice, amounts of total radiation and its beam component drop sharply in the forest with the advent of leaf expansion. Diffuse radiation in the forest continues to increase slowly following the onset of leaf expansion but reverses as the forest approaches a fully leafed state. Following the summer solstice, forest structure remains essentially static until abscission while solar elevations decrease. In summer and early autumn, total radiation and both its beam and diffuse components decrease slowly in the forest to their annual minimum in autumn. With leaf abscission and subsequent fall, radiation increases slightly in the forest but soon declines again as solar elevations approach their annual minimum of the winter solstice.
27646047|Dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) and dissolved oxygen (DO) are commonly measured to compute metabolism of aquatic ecosystems. However, concentrations of DIC and DO depend on many factors in addition to ecosystem metabolism, such as water temperature, gas exchange with the atmosphere, abiotic chemical reactions, and inputs in precipitation, groundwater, and surface water. We used 20-year time series from seven lakes to understand how DIC and DO concentrations are controlled as a function of time scale. Diel cycles of both solutes are controlled primarily by metabolism, exchange with the atmosphere, and temperature. At seasonal and annual scales, metabolism is important, but physical processes associated with spring and autumn mixing, as well as solute loading from the watershed, have comparably large effects. At decadal scales, effects of metabolism are negligible. Controls of the two solutes diverge, with variance in DIC explained largely by solute inputs and variance in DO explained largely by water temperature. Like other indicators in many ecosystems, variability of DIC and DO is strongly scale dependent and associated with different drivers depending on the time scale of the analysis.
10.2307/1943045|To help fill the gap in detailed knowledge of avian community structure in tropical forests, we undertook a census of a 97-ha plot of floodplain forest in Amazonian Peru. The plot was censused over a 3-mo period spanning the 1982 breeding season. The cooperative venture entailed @?12 person-months of effort. Conventional spot-mapping was the principal method used, but several additional methods were required to estimate the numbers of non-territorial and group-living species: direct counts of the members of mixed flocks, saturation mist-netting of the entire plot, opportunistic visual registrations at fruiting trees, determination of the average size of parrot flocks, color banding of colonial icterids, etc. Two hundred forty-five resident species were found to hold territories on the plot, or to occupy all or part of it. Seventy-four additional species were detected as occasional-to-frequent visitors, wanderers from other habitats, or as migrants from both hemispheres. By superimposing territory maps or the areas of occupancy of individual species, we determined that point (alpha) diversities exceeded 160 species in portions of the plot. About 1910 individual birds nested in 100 ha of this floodplain forest, making up a biomass conservatively estimated at 190 kg/km^2. The total number of breeding birds was equivalent to that in many temperate forests, but the biomass was about five times as great. Predominantly terrestrial granivores contributed the largest component of the biomass (39%), followed by largely arboreal frugivores (22%). Considering only insectivores, the biomass (34 kg/km^2) is somewhat less than that in the forest at Hubbard Brook, New Hampshire (40 kg/km^2), although it is greater (55 kg/km^2) if one includes omnivores. The number of insectivores was considerably less than at Hubbard Brook, due to their 60% larger average body size (32 vs. 20 g). Even though a large majority of the species were patchily distributed, the 97-ha plot was found to include 99% of the bird species that regularly occupy mature floodplain forest at Cocha Cashu. The most abundant species occupied territories of 4-5 ha, and 84 species (26%) had population densities of @<1 pair per square kilometre. Of these, 33 (10% of the total community) were judged to be constitutively rare (i.e., having low population densities everywhere), rather than being merely locally rare. Many of these are predicted to be vulnerable to forest fragmentation and disturbance. Comparison of these results with those from other tropical forests proved difficult due to a lack of standardized methodology.
10.2307/1942622|Population dynamics of Weddell seals in McMurdo Sound, Antarctica, were studied from 1970 to 1984 using mark-recapture estimation, aerial surveys, age structure and magnitude of harvests, and direct counts of pup production. Similar data from earlier studies were used to reconstruct the history of the population during the period of human presence after 1956. Jolly-Seber estimates of population size indicated a general decline from 1970 to 1976, low numbers in 1976 and 1978, and relative stability from 1979 to 1984 at @?1500 adult seals. From 1970 to 1983, mean annual survival of adult female and male Weddell seals was estimated at 0.85 and 0.76. Counts made in aerial surveys in the summers of 1982/1983 and 1983/1984 were substantially below similar survey counts in the 1960s. Pup production in the breeding colonies also declined from 1967 to 1976, but has recovered and been stable since 1979. Collections spanning 28 yr indicated significant shifts in age structure characteristic of populations undergoing a rapid increase and then decline. The age structure of both sexes indicated a constant age of recruitment to the adult population at 5 yr, which corresponds closely with age of maturity in females. Generalized least squares and standard regression analyses failed to detect any correlation of adult survival or female reproductive estimates with population size or ice conditions, but there were significant trends in survival estimates from 1970 to 1983 that may be due to shifting age structure. The most plausible interpretation of these data is that heavy harvests of seals to feed dog teams in the mid-1950s severely depleted the resident population of adult Weddell seals. When population studies began in the early 1960s the population was expanding rapidly, probably as a result of immigration by juveniles. The population declined to low levels in 1976-1978 and has been fairly stable since 1979, probably at a level lower than before harvesting began. Survival and reproductive parameters of these Weddell seals are low relative to other pinnipeds, suggesting that the adult population is at an equilibrium with its environment.
10.2307/2657196|Population dynamics of black ash (Fraxinus nigra) were investigated in five stands with different exposures to spring flooding at the southwestern limit of Quebec's boreal forest. Fifty-four 100-m
10.2307/1942542|According to the habitat-matrix model, arboreal microhabitat specialists are adapted behaviorally and morphologically for locomotion in different subsets of the vegetation, each characterized by its three-dimensional structure, and these adaptations help explain morphological patterns among coexisting species. I tested this model's predictions for Anolis lizards near Monteverde, Costa Rica. Anolis humilis, A. tropidolepis, and A. woodi were active at different heights in the shaded forest understory, and A. insignis inhabited the canopy. Gap specialists, A. altae and A. intermedius, resembled one another in microhabitat use but were largely separated by elevation. Adult males of forest-understory and gap species were active higher above ground than adult females, which averaged higher than juveniles. In their different structural environments, species, sexes, and age classes differed in proportional use of locomotor modes: running, jumping, and crawling. During field observations of forest-understory and gap species, frequency of crawling was highest for anoles that used slender, widely spaced supports, though much variation in crawling frequency was unexplained. Frequency of jumping increased as mean support size and average distance between supports decreased; the latter variable, expressed relative to body length, accounted for most of the variation in jump frequency. With enclosure experiments, I assessed proximate effects of microhabitat features on locomotor behavior and removed these effects to test for interspecific differences in intrinsic locomotor tendencies. Jump frequency of A. altae consistently increased with decreasing distance between supports, whereas the effects of support diameter were more complex, and varied with spacing of supports. Support diameter exerted both a surface-area effect (a lower tendency to jump from larger supports compared with smaller ones) and, where supports were widely spaced, a target-size effect (a higher tendency to jump to larger supports compared with smaller ones). Compared in the same array of supports, A. tropidolepis, A. altae, and A. intermedius, although similar in body size, differed in frequency of jumping. Thus, differences in locomotor behavior among species reflected not only proximate influences of vegetation structure but also intrinsic tendencies. Morphological traits were strongly associated with locomotor behavior and microhabitat specialty. Differences in limb proportions of primarily running anoles (A. altae and A. intermedius), crawling anoles (A. insignis), and anoles that jumped frequently (A. humilis, A. tropidolepis, and A. woodi) accorded with predictions from biomechanics. Body size was also functionally related to locomotion and was correlated with microhabitat structure. Thus, ability to exploit various structural environments may depend not only on body shape but also size. Nonrandom patterns of interspecific differences in morphology suggested limiting similarity without revealing the underlying ecological process(es). The mechanistic basis for these patterns,however, appears to lie, at least in part, in the functional relationships between morphology and habitat structure.
4134791|Fine root processes play a prominent role in the carbon and nutrient cycling of boreal ecosystems due to the high proportion of biomass allocated belowground and the rapid decomposition of fine roots relative to aboveground tissues. To examine these issues in detail, major components of ecosystem carbon flux were studied in three mature black spruce forests in interior Alaska, where fine root production, respiration, mortality and decomposition, and aboveground production of trees, shrubs, and mosses were measured relative to soil CO
27806872|Our understanding of migratory birds' year-round ecology and evolution remains patchy despite recent fundamental advances. Periodic reviews focus future research and inform conservation and management; here, we take advantage of our combined experiences working on Western Hemisphere avian migration systems to highlight recent lessons and critical gaps in knowledge. Among topics discussed are: (1) The pipeline from pure to applied researchers leaves room for improvement. (2) Population limitation and regulation includes both seasonal and between-season interactions. (3) The study of movements of small-bodied species remains a major research frontier. (4) We must increase our understanding of population connectivity. (5) With few exceptions, population regulation has barely been investigated. (6) We have increasingly integrated landscape configuration of habitats, large-scale habitat disturbances, and habitat quality impacts into models of seasonal and overall demographic success. (7) The post-breeding season (late summer for latitudinal migrants) is increasingly appreciated for its impacts on demography. (8) We recognize the diverse ways that avian brood parasites, nest predators, and food availability affect demography. (9) Sourcesink and meta-population models help us understand migratory avian distributions among fragmented habitats. (10) Advances in modeling have improved estimates of annual survival and fecundity, but for few species. (11) Populations can be limited by ecological conditions in winter, but habitat needs are poorly known for most species at this time. (12) Migration tends to occupy broad spatial fronts that may change seasonally or when migrants cross major barriers. (13) En route conditions can limit migrant populations; linking migration habitat quality indicators to fitness or population consequences presents a major challenge. (14) A variety of intra-tropical Neotropical migration patterns are recognizable, but almost nothing is known about these systems beyond descriptions of a few typical species' movements. (15) Global climate change scenarios predict range and phenology shifts of Neotropical migrant bird populations that must be considered in conservation plans. Future studies will depend on new technologies and the integration of modeling with sophisticated, large-spatial-scale measurement and parameter estimation; whether the pace of research and management involving migratory birds can match the growth of environmental threats remains to be seen.
10.2307/2937157|The purpose of this study was to analyze the dispersal dynamics of the ovoviviparous bivalve Gemma gemma (hereafter referred to as Gemma) in an environment disturbed by the pit-digging activities of horseshoe crabs, Limulus polyphemus. Gemma broods its young and has no planktonic larval stage, so all dispersal is the result of juvenile and adult movement. Animal movement was measured using natural crab pits, hand-dug simulated crab pits, and cylindrical bottom traps in the intertidal zone at Tom's Cove, Virginia, USA. This study demonstrated that horseshoe crabs create localized patches with reduced densities of Gemma, that all sizes and ages of Gemma quickly disperse into these low density patches, and that the mechanism of dispersal is passive bedload and suspended load transport. Freshly excavated natural pits had significantly lower Gemma densities than did undisturbed background sediment, but there were no significant differences in total density of other species, number of species, and species diversity (H'). Equitability (J') was greater in pits than in controls because of the reduced abundance of Gemma, the numerically dominant species. Newly dug simulated crab pits also had significantly lower Gemma densities than controls and returned to control levels by the next day. Density recovery trajectories for individually marked pits showed consistent responses in summer and fall, but not in winter when low Gemma abundance resulted in greater variability among pits. Significant positive correlations between the volume of sediment and the number of Gemma collected per bottom trap support the hypothesis that Gemma dispersal is a passive transport phenomenon. Assuming no active, density-dependent movement, the product of the Gemma density frequency distribution in undisturbed background sediment and the frequency distribution of sediment volume collected per trap created a predicted Gemma frequency distribution in traps that matched the actual distribution. Absolute dispersal rates and relative dispersal rates (absolute dispersal rate divided by background density in undisturbed sediment) into pits and traps were greater in summer than winter. Dispersal rate results suggest that increased horseshoe crab disturbance in summer may cause an increase in Gemma transport. Because Gemma individuals are dispersed by hydrodynamic action, it was expected that small, young individuals would be most easily transported in the bedload. There was, however, little evidence that movement into pits and traps was size- or age-selective. Most recent benthic dispersal research has focused on the large-scale movement and settlement patterns of invertebrate larvae. The results from this study illustrate that dispersal of bottom-dwelling juveniles and adults plays an important role in regulating the local distribution and abundance of Gemma. Previous workers have shown that young Gemma live in dense aggregations and that growth and fecundity are reduced at such high densities, leading to population crashes. This study demonstrated a mechanism by which Gemma disperses into low-density patches where intraspecific competition may be mitigated, possibly resulting in enhanced individual reproductive success and population fitness.
40385206|Large herbivores can influence plant and soil properties in grassland ecosystems, but especially for belowground biota and processes, the mechanisms that explain these effects are not fully understood. Here, we examine the capability of three grazing mechanismsplant defoliation, dung and urine return, and physical presence of animals (causing trampling and excreta return in patches)to explain grazing effects in Phleum pratense-Festuca pratensis dairy cow pasture in Finland. Comparison of control plots and plots grazed by cows showed that grazing maintained original plant-community structure, decreased shoot mass and root N and P concentrations, increased shoot N and P concentrations, and had an inconsistent effect on root mass. Among soil fauna, grazing increased the abundance of fungivorous nematodes and Aporrectodea earthworms and decreased the abundance of detritivorous enchytraeids and Lumbricus earthworms. Grazing also increased soil density and pH but did not affect average soil inorganic-N concentration. To reveal the mechanisms behind these effects, we analyzed results from mowed plots and plots that were both mowed and treated with a dung and urine mixture. This comparison revealed that grazing effects on plant attributes were almost entirely explained by defoliation, with only one partly explained by excreta return. Among belowground attributes, however, the mechanisms were more mixed, with effects explained by defoliation, patchy excreta return, and cow trampling. Average soil inorganic-N concentration was not affected by grazing because it was simultaneously decreased by defoliation and increased by cow presence. Presence of cows created great spatial heterogeneity in soil N availability and abundance of fungivorous nematodes. A greenhouse trial revealed a grazing-induced soil feedback on plant growth, which was explained by patchiness in N availability rather than changes in soil biota. Our results show that grazing effects on plant attributes can be satisfactorily predicted using the effects of defoliation, whereas those on soil fauna and soil N availability need understanding of other mechanisms as well. The results indicate that defoliation-induced changes in plant ecophysiology and the great spatial variation in N availability created by grazers are the two key mechanisms through which large herbivores can control grassland ecosystems.
10.2307/1942404|The mechanisms by which various species exert influence disproportionate to their abundance or mass on the structure of a lower intertidal algal community were evaluated experimentally. These functional roles were evaluated experimentally. These functional roles were evaluated by various controlled manipulations at seven stations along the Washington coastline ranked according to an exposure/desiccation gradient. The algae were divided into three categories: canopy species, which grow above the other species and apparently succeed in competitively dominating the light resources as demonstrated by algal blooms following their removal; obligate understory species, which die after the canopy species are removed; and fugitive species, which are quick to colonize new space. Ecological dominance was exerted in areas of moderate wave exposure by Hedophyllum sessile, which competitively displaces a large number of fugitive algal species and which furnishes a protected habitat for many obligate understory algae that die or defoliate after the removal of Hedophyllum. Hedophyllum loses this dominance in the most exposed areas, although such sites apparently represent its physiologically optimal habitat, because in these areas it is out-competed by Laminaria setchellii and Lessoniopsis littoralis. In these wave exposed habitats Lessoniopsis was demonstrated to exert a strong competitive dominance over all the other species in the association. The molluscan herbivores were not observed to express any measurable effects on the recruitment or survival of the algae. However, the echinoid Strongylocentrotus purpuratus often overexploits its prey and has a pronounced influence on most of the algal species. In this respect S. purpuratus enjoys an important community role singular among the many herbivores. Similarly, Pycnopodia helianthoides and Anthopleura xanthogrammica are disproportionately important carnivores, because their predation on Strongylocentrotus, clearing large areas of urchins, results in patches in which algal succession follows. The rate of algal succession following removal of the dominant algal species or of Strongylocentrotus is proportional to the degree of wave exposure. The Hedophyllum canopy recovery at the Eagle Point area of San Juan Island, a site exposed to relatively little wave action and thus high levels of desiccation, was relatively slow, with only 10%-26% cover reestablished after 3 yr. In contrast, Hedophyllum canopy developed up to 66% cover in only 1 yr in the exposed area of Waadah Island; it then quickly lost its dominance to Laminaria and Lessoniopsis. Algal succession in deeper Portage Head tidepools was found to be relatively slow with no clear dominance expressed after 5 yr.
27806878|Our understanding of how communities are regulated diminishes with increasing spatial scale. Because oceanographic processes supply food, transport propagules, and set abiotic conditions across broad areas, they may explain metacommunity and food web functioning on large scales. Here we test for bottom-up manifestations of an oceanographic process, upwelling, through production of barnacle (Megabalanus spp.) prey to top-down control by whelks, fish, and urchins across a mesoscale (125 km) gradient of 2868% upwelling at 12 subtidal rock wall sites in the Galpagos from 2002 to 2005. Multivariate analysis of in situ flow measurements and the occurrence of the Equatorial Undercurrent (EUC) distinguished weak (WUP), intermediate (IUP), and strong upwelling (SUP) site groups. Barnacle cover and recruitment were significantly higher at SUP than at WUP sites and decreased with depth from 6 to 15 m. High barnacle recruitment was a persistent feature of SUP sites from 2002 to 2004. This recruitment was significantly related to larval concentrations, vertical flow speeds, and to a lesser extent, onshore offshore flow speeds, while growth rates of barnacles were highest at three SUP and one IUP site. Three-dimensional (3-D) flow explained 39% of the variation in growth. Therefore, bottom-up effects of upwelling occurred via prey production as recruitment and growth of barnacles. Vertical flow was the most important component of the upwelling regime predicting these dynamics. Evidence of population level predatorprey coupling was provided by significant linear relationships between densities of the whelk, Hexaplex princeps, and both the cover and recruitment of barnacle prey. In a mesoscale predation intensity experiment 33100% of barnacles were eaten by Hexaplex and fish, linking bottom-up and top-down effects. Significantly more barnacles were consumed at SUP than at WUP sites. The broader spatial context for upwelling and predatorprey coupling documented here was provided by the topography of the sea floor offshore, as the maximum depth and bottom slope within 15 km of the sites predicted 40% of upwelling duration. Eighty percent of the SUP sites were close to steep slopes and deep (>1100 m) water where upwelling from internal waves and the EUC is likely.
10.2307/2937031|We report the effects of deforestation on the export of particulate matter, erodibility of the ecosystem, and the relative importance of dissolved substances and particulate matter in exported materials. The mature forested ecosystem is little affected by erosion, with an average annual particulate matter export of only 2.5 MT (metric tons) km^-^2 yr^-^1. Deforestation and repression of growth for 3 yr increased export to a maximum of 38 MT km^-^2 yr^-^1, but the increase in export was exponential with rather minor increases in the first 2 yr after cutting and a sharp increase in the 3rd yr. This resulted because the ecosystem continued to exercise considerable control over erodibility for 2 yr after cutting without annual renewal of biotic regulation by primary productivity. Increases in particulate matter export are primarily due to increases in erodibility rather than increased flow rates. In the mature ecosystem, the average ratio of annual net export of dissolved substance to particulate matter is 2.3. Deforestation shifts this ratio to >8.0 during the first 2 yr after cutting. This shift results because the export trends, for dissolved substances and particulate matter following deforestation, are not synchronous. The first response to deforestation is mobilization of nutrients from the available nutrient and organic matter compartments and leakage in stream water. After 2 yr, particulate matter output rises sharply as biotic control of erodibility weakens, while dissolved substance export declines, probably because of diminution of readily available nutrients stored within the system. This nonsynchrony, coupled with the action of natural species adapted to take advantage of the abundance of nutrients and water that results immediately after disturbance, may be considered as part of a homeostatic mechanism that allows rapid recovery of a forest ecosystem while minimizing the effects of erosion. Thus, following destruction of the vegetation, the ecosystem maintains a residual resistance to erosion and has a high potential for repair through successional productivity. Nutrient flux and erosion losses return to previous levels as the intrasystem aspects of the hydrologic-nutrient cycle interaction and erodibility are increasingly regulated by biotic factors. These results relative to stable conditions and their reestablishment following disturbance may have applicability to a wide range of terrestrial ecosystems.
10.2307/1942284|About 1,200 Microtus pennsylvanicus and 1,000 M. ochrogaster were collected over a 3-year period by sequential trapping of snap-trap lines in 15 grassland areas in southern Indiana. Peak densities were reached in 1966 for all but two of the populations studied. Reproductive data were obtained to determine whether weight at sexual maturity, pregnancy rate, living embryo production, prenatal mortality, and body weight varied in relation to fluctuations in numbers. The rate of winter breeding was high in both species of vole between the cyclic increase and cyclic peak years. Breeding was continued at a reduced level during the fall of the cyclic peak and was greatly reduced during the winter between the cyclic peak and decline. In both species sexual maturity occurred at higher weights in periods of peak population density and lower weights in periods of low density. Only heavy individuals remained fecund during the winter months of November-February. Sexual maturity was reached at the same weight in males and in females. Litter size was correlated with body size. In M. pennsylvanicus litter size was not significantly different in multiparous and primiparous females, and litter size remained constant in the summer breeding seasons of the increase, peak, and decline years. Difference between seasons was significant, the fall-winter-spring periods having a 14% lower litter size than the summer period. In M. ochrogaster living embryo counts were 25% lower during the period of cyclic peak in multiparous females than they were during the years of cyclic increase or decline. This observation was confirmed independently in a population that was out of synchrony. A decline in litter size was not associated with the year of cyclic decline in either species. Corpora lutea counts were correlated with body size. The pattern established for living embryo counts was nearly identical to the ovulation pattern. Prenatal mortality did not change significantly, either seasonally or yearly, and thus was not higher in the decline phase for either species. Testes weight and body weight were correlated. The testes weight of non-fertile Microtus pennsylvanicus differed little among the summers of population increase, peak, or decline. Testes development was inhibited during fall and winter. Fertile males taken during the summer of population peak and the summer of decline had heavier testes than males taken during the summer of increase. A midsummer drop in testes weight was observed during three breeding seasons. Non-fertile M. ochrogaster had only slightly reduced testes weight during the winter between the population increase and peak, but testes weight declined significantly during the winter following the population peak. Testes weights of fertile males changed little during the summer of population increase, but they increased steadily during the summer of population peak. A significant decline in testicular weight occurred during the winter following the population peak. High body weights were associated with peak populations in both species of Microtus. The pattern of change in weight distributions was similar to that described for other cyclic voles and lemmings.
10.2307/2657204|Herbivores may affect plants by removing biomass, altering competitive interactions, and altering the abiotic environment. Changes in the size and quality of forage species and in species composition as a result of herbivory, in turn, affect future herbivory. We investigated the direct and indirect effects of herbivory by Brant Geese (Branta bernicla nigricans) on Triglochin palustris (arrowgrass) in a subarctic salt marsh in southwestern Alaska. In the first experiment, we compared arrowgrass in exclosed plots, unexclosed plots with feces removed, and control plots. In the second experiment, we used a full-factorial design to examine the effects of clipping arrowgrass, clipping neighboring plants, depositing goose feces, and their interactions on arrowgrass size and biomass allocation. In the third experiment, we placed hand-reared goslings on premanipulated plots from the second experiment to examine the effects of arrowgrass size, density, and species composition on the probability of an individual arrowgrass plant being grazed. For unclipped plants, feces deposition resulted in reduced bulb mass, reduced percentage of biomass in bulb and roots, and increased percentage of biomass in leaves, whereas feces deposition had no effect on clipped plants. Clipping neighbors resulted in increased arrowgrass root and stolon mass only for unclipped plants. Feces deposition resulted in increased vegetative reproduction when neighbors were clipped, but had no effect on vegetative reproduction when neighbors were not clipped. Plants in exclosed plots were larger, had greater allocation to leaves, had higher concentrations of C and N, and were more likely to flower than were plants in unexclosed plots. These results indicate an increase in competition for light with neighbor plants under feces deposition, which may be ameliorated by biomass removal of neighbors. Our results predict that an increase in grazing pressure is not necessarily detrimental to arrowgrass, provided that it is accompanied by increases in consumption of neighbor plants. The number of arrowgrass plants completely removed was not related to arrowgrass density, but the number of plants partially grazed increased with arrowgrass density. The probability that an individual arrowgrass plant would be grazed was negatively related to biomass or percent cover of several other species (Potentilla egedei, Chrysanthemum arcticum, Carex spp., Salix spp.). These results suggest that some neighbor species may provide a measure of protection (associational refuge) from herbivory, and that an increase in grazing intensity may have a strong negative effect on arrowgrass populations by reducing this protection and through an increased likelihood of consumption of the arrowgrass remaining after neighbors are removed. We conclude that the way in which we view neighboring plants (as competitors or potential protectors) affects our predictions regarding the effects of changing herbivore populations. Feedbacks from the plant community to herbivores following grazing should be included in studies that aim to extrapolate to the population level the effects of herbivory on individuals.
10.2307/2937271|Competition for substratum by encrusting marine organisms usually occurs by direct overgrowth at zones of contact. The documented mechanisms of competitive displacement are numerous, but the relative importance of species in a competing assemblage has been difficult to quantify. This study of the encrusting community on subtidal vertical rock walls in northern Massachusetts used 2 yr of photographic sampling of permanent quadrats to examine the competitive role of each common space occupier. The surface area gained or lost by individuals or colonies of each species in interactions with others was measured over intervals of @>30 d. Four quantitative indices were used to describe competitive roles: the first measured the overgrowth activity of each species within a given assemblage (overgrowth index); the second assessed the relative importance of each species as an overgrowth competitor in the assemblage (weighted overgrowth index); the third described each species' ability to resist overgrowth (resistance index); and the fourth measured each species' growth rate when advancing over other organisms. Analysis of percent cover on subtidal rock walls over a 2-yr period showed that the ascidian Aplidium pallidium, the sponge Halichondria panicea, the octocoral Alcyonium siderium, a red fleshy crustose alga, and a mat of amphipod tubes covered most of the rock surface continuously, although the relative abundances of the species varied across sites and seasons. Several of the common species gained space by overgrowing other species directly or by lateral growth pushing the adjacent species away (lateral movement). This group included several colonial and solitary ascidian species, calcareous tubeworms, and encrusting bryozoans. A few species, including the fleshy red crustose alga and the crustose coralline alga Phymatolithon, gained space from others when an overlying organism receded. The various indices of spatial interaction showed that species which were common and frequent overgrowers in the system were usually not good at resisting overgrowth themselves. Species good at resisting overgrowth were generally large and slow-growing, and were not the most active overgrowers of other species. The interactions among species in this study were basically hierarchical, with the larger thicker colonies and individuals being the winners in competition for space. However, there were a number of reversals of competitive success, especially among the thick crustose forms, and there were numerous @'standoffs@' where borders did not change during the 30-d interval (19-79% of all encounters, depending on the species involved; 41% overall). The indices of spatial interaction (growth, overgrowth, resistance, overgrowth weighted by abundance) were significantly correlated between exposed and protected sites but were not well correlated between warm and cold seasons. Thus, species tended to have the same competitive roles in slightly different communities but their importance varied as their growth rate changed between warm and cold periods. Overgrowth did not always result in death of the organism overgrown. Species such as the fleshy red crustose alga and the coralline alga Phymatolithon were often encountered alive under invertebrates that had been in position for at least several months. Thus, poor competitors in this system were maintained by two processes: some are early recruits that grow rapidly but later get overgrown, while others are able to withstand overgrowth until predation or some other disturbance removes the overgrower.
10.2307/2657174|Light is widely considered to be the most important factor limiting the performance of plants on the floors of forests and woodlands, but the roles of nutrient availability and water supply remain poorly defined. We seek to predict the types of forest in which root competition affects seedling performance, and the types of plants that respond most strongly to release from root competition. We then test our predictions by reviewing experiments in which tree seedlings and forest herbs are released from belowground competition, usually by cutting trenches to sever the roots of surrounding trees. First, we provide a worldwide review of changes in canopy form and fine-root mass along gradients of soil fertility and seasonal drought, keeping in mind the stages of forest development. Our review shows that penetration of light is least in forests on moist soils providing large amounts of major nutrients. The changes are far more complex than those considered by allocation models. Dry woodlands typically allow 20 times as much light to penetrate as do wet forests, but there is surprisingly little evidence that they have greater fine-root densities in the topsoil. Tropical rain forests on highly infertile soils have only slightly more open canopies than those on fertile soils, but much greater fine-root densities. Northern temperate forests on highly acidic peats and sandy soils are often dominated by early-successional, open-canopied conifers (generally pines), mostly as a result of recurrent fires, and transmit about five times as much light as surrounding deciduous forests. A review of trenching experiments shows that light alone limits seedling growth in forests on moist, nutrient-rich soils, but competition for belowground resources becomes important on infertile soils and in drier regions. Secondly, we consider how root competition alters species' shade tolerances. Shade-house experiments demonstrate that species differ markedly in the minimum irradiance at which they respond to nutrient addition, but there generally tends to be a sizable response at >5% daylight and little response in <2% daylight. There is some evidence that species that have high potential growth rates and that respond markedly to increased irradiance are also most responsive to nutrient addition in 2-3% daylight. T. Smith and M. Huston have hypothesized that species cannot tolerate both shade and drought; this appears to be the case for species that tolerate shade chiefly by maximizing leaf area. However, many shade-tolerant woody plants in tropical and mediterranean-climate forests have thick, tough, long-lived leaves and a relatively high allocation to roots, and these species are much more drought tolerant. A few studies indicate that root trenching allows species to persist in deeper shade than that in which they are normally found and allows species from mesic sites to invade more xeric sites. Usually, the impact of trenching on growth rate is much greater in gaps than in the understory. Finally, we discuss the ways in which life-form composition and population structure of plant communities are shaped by reduced water supply and reduced nutrient availability, emphasizing the inadequacy of models that consider the impact of "belowground resource availability" in a generic sense. Competition in a dry climate leads to widely spaced dominants, a lack of interstitial plants, high rates of seedling mortality in the understory, and a restriction of regeneration to patches where established matrix-forming plants have died. In contrast, vegetation on moist, infertile sites is characterized by closely packed, slender dominants, miniaturized interstitial plants, and slow rates of seedling growth in the understory, combined with relatively low rates of seedling mortality. Consequently, there is a continuum of sizes among the individuals of the dominant species, and a lack of reliance on gaps for establishment.
10.2307/2937061|The makeup of parasite communities is the result, among other factors, of interactions between the evolutionary history and ecological characteristics of hosts. This study evaluates the relative importance of some ecological factors (host body size, diet, habitat, latitude, and the mean number of parasite individuals per host) as determinants or correlates of parasite community richness in vertebrates, before and after controlling for potential effects of host phylogenetic relationships. Data were obtained from the literature on 596 parasite communities belonging to one of four distinct types: gastrointestinal parasite communities of fish, birds, or mammals, and ectoparasite communities of fish. There were positive correlations between the number of hosts sampled and mean species richness of the parasite community of each genus. In analyses treating host genera as independent statistical observations and using estimates of parasite species richness corrected for host sample size, positive correlations were observed between richness and host body size in gastrointestinal communities of all three groups of vertebrates. The mean number of parasite individuals per host also was correlated positively with species richness. In fish, richness increased with increases in the proportion of animal food in the host diet. Aquatic birds had richer parasite communities than their terrestrial counterparts, whereas marine fish had richer gastrointestinal parasite communities than freshwater fish. The richness of ectoparasite communities on fish showed no association with any of the ecological variables investigated. Using host genera as independent points in the analyses may lead to biased results since some host lineages are descended from recent common ancestors, and are therefore not truly independent. The comparative analysis was repeated using phylogenetically independent contrasts derived from the phylogeny of hosts. Once the effects of host phylogeny were removed, somewhat different results were obtained: host body size showed no relationship with parasite species richness in birds, and there was no evidence that habitat transitions resulted in significant changes in parasite species richness in any of the types of communities studied. Of the ecological factors studied, the comparative analyses suggest that only host body size can be an important determinant of parasite community richness in certain host groups. This study illustrates clearly the need to control for phylogeny in investigations of host-parasite interactions.
23596919|The intermittent upwelling hypothesis (IUH) predicts that the strength of ecological subsidies, organismal growth responses, and species interactions will vary unimodally along a gradient of upwelling from persistent downwelling to persistent upwelling, with maximal levels at an intermediate or "intermittent" state of upwelling. To test this model, we employed the comparative-experimental method to investigate these processes at 1644 wave-exposed rocky intertidal sites in Oregon, California, and New Zealand, varying in average upwelling and/or downwelling during springsummer. As predicted by the IUH, ecological subsidies (phytoplankton abundance, prey recruitment rates), prey responses (barnacle colonization, mussel growth), and species interactions (competition rate, predation rate and effects) were unimodally related to upwelling. On average, unimodal relationships with upwelling magnitude explained 50% of the variance in the various processes, and unimodal and monotonic positive relationships against an index of intermittency explained 37% of the variance. Regressions among the ecological subsidies and species interactions were used to infer potential ecological linkages that underpinned these patterns. Abundance of phytoplankton was associated with increases in rates of barnacle colonization, intensity of competition and predation, and predation effects, and rates of barnacle recruitment were associated with increases in mussel growth, barnacle colonization, and species interactions. Positive effects on interactions were also seen for rates of colonization, competition, predation, and predation effects. Several responses were saturating or exponential, suggestive of threshold effects. These results suggest that the IUH has geographic generality and are also consistent with earlier arguments that bottom-up effects and propagule subsidies are strongly linked to the dynamics of higher trophic levels, or top-down effects, as well as to nontrophic interactions. The 50% of the variance not explained by upwelling is likely due to more regional-to-local influences on the processes examined, and future efforts should focus on incorporating such effects into the IUH.
20787447|Over time scales of thousands to millions of years, and in the absence of rejuvenating disturbances that initiate primary or early secondary succession, ecosystem properties such as net primary productivity, decomposition, and rates of nutrient cycling undergo substantial declines termed ecosystem retrogression. Retrogression results from the depletion or reduction in the availability of nutrients, and can only be reversed through rejuvenating disturbance that resets the system; this differs from age-related declines in forest productivity that are driven by shorter-term depression of nutrient availability and plant ecophysiological process rates that occur during succession. Here we review and synthesize the findings from studies of long-term chronosequences that include retrogressive stages for systems spanning the boreal, temperate, and subtropical zones. Ecosystem retrogression has been described by ecologists, biogeochemists, geologists, and pedologists, each of which has developed somewhat independent conceptual frameworks; our review seeks to unify this literature in order to better understand the causes and consequences of retrogression. Studies of retrogression have improved our knowledge of how long-term pedogenic changes drive shorter-term biological processes, as well as the consequences of these changes for ecosystem development. Our synthesis also reveals that similar patterns of retrogression (involving reduced soil fertility, predictable shifts in organismic traits, and ecological processes) occur in systems with vastly different climatic regimes, geologic substrates, and vegetation types, even though the timescales and mechanisms driving retrogression may vary greatly among sites. Studies on retrogression also provide evidence that in many regions, high biomass or "climax" forests are often transient, and do not persist indefinitely in the absence of rejuvenating disturbance. Finally, our review highlights that studies on retrogressive chronosequences in contrasting regions provide unparalleled opportunities for developing general principles about the long-term feedbacks between biological communities and pedogenic processes, and how these control ecosystem development.
10.2307/2657229|In contrast to documented increases in woody plant dominance of savannas and grasslands of North America, oak (Quercus L.) savannas that form lower tree lines in the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico have been stable over the last several centuries. We sought to identify potential biotic and abiotic constraints on seedling recruitment of Quercus emoryi within the context of potential shifts in lower tree line. We used field surveys to describe seedling distribution at and below lower tree line, and to determine the potential for acorn dispersal from lower tree line into adjacent grassland. Field and greenhouse experiments were used to test explanatory hypotheses generated by descriptive surveys. Q. emoryi seedlings were located almost exclusively beneath mature, conspecific tree canopies within the woodland and savanna and were absent from adjacent semidesert grassland in 1993 and 1995. Seed bank surveys indicated that acorns were concentrated beneath tree canopies and were dispersed into adjacent grassland in low numbers. Although soil N, C, and P were about two times greater beneath trees than in adjacent grassland, experimental nutrient amendments to subcanopy and grassland soils indicated that soil nutrients did not limit Q. emoryi growth. Reciprocal transfers of subcanopy and grassland soil to subcanopy and grassland microsites indicated that microsite was more important than soil source for seedling growth. Overstory shade was important at all stages of seedling development investigated: the provision of artificial or natural shade increased rates of seedling emergence and subsequent survival as much as 19-fold and increased recruitment rates between 30- and 60-fold. We conclude that rates of Q. emoryi recruitment within grasslands below tree line are relatively low and are constrained by low rates of seed dispersal coupled with a low probability of seedling emergence. In contrast, large numbers of acorns are dispersed directly beneath Q. emoryi trees, where they have a higher probability of emergence than in adjacent grassland. Survival rates of emerged seedlings were low, regardless of landscape position. Thus, observed patterns of seedling distribution on the landscape resulted from interactions between seed dispersal and habitat-specific response of seedlings to environmental variation. Results of this and complementary research suggest that the lower tree line in southern Arizona is stabilized by self-enhancing feedback mechanisms of overstory shade, seed dispersal, and seedling establishment, coupled with strong abiotic constraints beyond the current ecotone. These processes stabilize the woodland-grassland ecotone both spatially and temporally, consistent with Wilson and Agnew's one-sided positive feedback switch. Although this switch would not produce an indefinitely stable vegetation mosaic, upslope or downslope shifts in lower tree line are apparently resistant to decadal or even century-scale climatic perturbation. The observed shift in tree line in the last millennium was less likely the result of slow, spatial progression of autogenic safe sites than the result of episodic and infrequent allogenic processes that simulated or negated the importance of conspecific, biogenic safe sites.
4539065|Colonization-competition trade-offs represent a stabilizing mechanism that is thought to maintain diversity of forest trees. If so, then early-successional species should benefit from high capacity to colonize new sites, and late-successional species should be good competitors. Tests of this hypothesis in forests have been precluded by an inability to estimate the many factors that contribute to seed production and dispersal, particularly the many types of stochasticity that contribute to fecundity data. We develop a hierarchical Bayes modeling structure, and we use it to estimate fecundity schedules from the two types of data that ecologists typically collect, including seed-trap counts and observations of tree status. The posterior density is obtained using Markov-chain Monte Carlo techniques. The flexible structure yields estimates of size and covariate effects on seed production, variability associated with population heterogeneity, and interannual stochasticity (variability and serial autocorrelation), sex ratio, and dispersal. It admits the errors in data associated with the ability to accurately recognize tree status and process misspecification. We estimate year-by-year seed-production rates for all individuals in each of nine sample stands from two regions and up to 11 years. A rich characterization of differences among species and relationships among individuals allows evaluation of a number of hypotheses related to masting, effective population sizes, and location and covariate effects. It demonstrates large bias in previous methods. We focus on implications for colonization-competition and a related hypothesis, the successional niche-trade-offs in the capacity to exploit high resource availability in early successional environments vs. the capacity to survive low-resource conditions late in succession. Contrary to predictions of trade-off hypotheses, we find no relationship between successional status and fecundity, dispersal, or expected arrivals at distant sites. Results suggest a mechanism for maintenance of diversity that may be more general than colonization-competition and successional niches. High variability and strong individual effects (variability within populations) generate massive stochasticity in recruitment that, when combined with "storage," may provide a stabilizing mechanism. The storage effect stabilizes diversity when species differences ensure that responses to stochasticity are not highly correlated among species. Process variability and individual effects mean that many species have the advantage at different times and places even in the absence of "deterministic" trade-offs. Not only does colonization vary among species, but also individual behavior is highly stochastic and weakly correlated among members of the same population. Although these factors are the dominant sources of variability in data sets (substantially larger than the deterministic relationships typically examined), they have not been not included in the models that ecologists have used to evaluate mechanisms of species coexistence (e.g., even individual-based models lack random individual effects). Recognition of the mechanisms of coexistence requires not only heuristic models that capture the principal sources of stochasticity, but also data-modeling techniques that allow for their estimation.
4539060|We studied reproductive costs of Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) in Prince William Sound, Alaska (USA) by removing entire clutches from randomly selected nests over four successive years, and then contrasting survival and fecundity of adults from manipulated and unmanipulated nests in each subsequent year. To elucidate mechanisms that lead to the expression of reproductive costs, we simultaneously characterized several behavioral and physiological parameters among adults in the two treatment groups. We also examined naturally nonbreeding adults that previously bred to determine their survival and future nonbreeding probabilities. Food availability varied during the study, being generally poor at the onset, and improving in later years. Adult nest attendance and body condition (assessed late in the chick-rearing period) varied accordingly among years, and between adults raising chicks and adults that had their eggs removed. Adults from unmanipulated nests incurred significant survival costs in all years, although fecundity costs were strongly expressed in only one of four years. Neither survival nor fecundity costs were strongly influenced by body condition or food availability, and no difference in reproductive costs was detected between the sexes. Although unmanipulated breeders survived at lower rates than manipulated breeders due to costs of reproduction, their survival rates were elevated compared to those of natural nonbreeders, presumably due to differences in individual ability. These findings indicate that models of adult survival must consider not only an organism's reproductive state, but also the factors that lead to that state. Although body condition appeared to be weakly related to survival, it was insufficient to explain the full magnitude of survival costs observed. We suggest that other parameters that were found to differ between treatment groups (e.g., rates of energy turnover, baseline levels of stress, and patterns of allocating body reserves) may be important mechanistic determinants of reproductive costs in kittiwakes, and potentially other long-lived species. Future efforts should move beyond simple assessments of body condition and toward more integrated measures of physiological condition when attempting to identify factors that influence how long-lived species balance the costs and benefits of reproduction.
27646108|The Everglades ridge and slough landscape is characterized by elevated sawgrass ridges regularly interspersed among lower and more open sloughs that are aligned parallel to the historic flow direction. Landscape degradation, characterized by topographic flattening, has coincided with a century of drainage, levee construction, nutrient enrichment, and flow reductions. Here we develop a conceptual model of Everglades landscape dynamics based on a literature synthesis and supported by the numerical model PeatAccrete. We propose that two feedback mechanisms govern landscape characteristics. The first, simulated with PeatAccrete, involves differential peat accretion governed by water level and phosphorus concentration, leading to the attainment of an equilibrium ridge elevation relative to slough. Differential peat accretion, however, cannot produce a characteristic ridge width or landscape wavelength. Instead, we propose that feedback between channel morphology and sediment mass transfer controls lateral and longitudinal topographic features, consistent with processes in anabranching rivers. This sediment transport feedback was critical in pattern initiation and evolution, and sediment redistribution from slough to ridge provides a plausible mechanism for preventing gradual ridge expansion. However, PeatAccrete model results show that, in the absence of sediment transport, ridges expand only on the order of meters per century. This result suggests that a combination of factors has driven the widespread disappearance of sloughs over the past century, including altered vertical peat accretion rates that lead to slough infilling. Sensitivity tests indicated that changes in duration and depth of surface water inundation, phosphorus supply, and redox potential have altered differential peat accretion rates in a way that favors topographic flattening. These factors are relatively well defined compared with the role of sediment transport, which requires further quantification. Because both positive and negative feedback processes interact in the Everglades, the trajectory of landscape evolution in time will depend upon current conditions, with areas of remnant ridge and slough topography being more likely than areas of degraded topography to respond to changes in water management in ways that enhance landscape heterogeneity over human timescales. Dual feedbacks between peat accretion and sediment transport are likely important controls on landscape evolution in low-gradient peatlands worldwide with pulsed, unidirectional flow.
10.2307/1942447|The primary production of Lake Lanao, Philippines, was studied over a 15-mo period by in situ application of C-14 and oxygen-difference techniques. Supporting data include weather, water chemistry, light penetration, and standing crop of both autotrophs and heterotrophs. A statistical treatment of production estimates precedes the presentation of data. Extensive comparison of the oxygen and C-14 methods indicates that the C-14 method as applied in Lake Lanao measures net primary production. Data from time-course experiments show no evidence of diurnal rhythms in the efficiency of photosynthesis per unit area of lake surface. Heterogeneity studies based on transect data indicate that at low to moderate levels of production, the probability that production at an index station will differ from the average for the lake on a given date by more than 30% is less than .05, while the comparable probability for high levels of production is .35. There is no significant difference between stations in mean primary production for the study period. Vertical profiles of photosynthesis exhibit light inhibition on all but the most overcast days. The threshold for inhibition at the surface is near 133 kerg/cm^2@?s during calm weather and somewhat lower in windy weather. The mean threshold for inhibition 1 m or more below the surface is lower than at the surface (101 kerg/cm^2@?s). The lake is exceptionally transparent (mean extinction coefficient, 0.38) considering its high productivity and has a vertical dispersion of production that is similar to temperate oligotrophic lakes. The characteristic is explained in terms of the low amounts of dissolved and suspended matter in the euphotic zone, high production per unit of standing crop, and great amount of mixing in the upper water column. Net primary production average 1.7 gC/m^2@?day, and gross primary production is 2.6 gC/m^2@?day. Autotrophs account for 80% of respiration in the euphotic zone. Factors controlling seasonal variation are related to resource supply rather than to temperature or biomass removal. Between 12 and 30% of seasonal variation in production can be accounted for by variations in incident light. Light limitation also occurs due to thickening of the zone of mixing during the circulation period and during storms. Nutrient supply is the dominant controlling factor during stratification. Nutrient depletion is relieved at frequent intervals by changes in the depth of mixing associated with storms. High sustained production on a low nutrient base is explained by rapid transfer of nutrients from the zone of decomposition back to the euphotic zone. General conclusions are drawn concerning the relative importance of seasonal and aperiodic variation in regulating the resource supply of temperate and tropical plankton communities.
3100077|Soil nitrogen (N) transformations and N-oxide emissions were measured following N additions in three tropical montane rain forests in the Hawaiian Islands that differed in substrate age and nutrient status. Nitrous oxide (N
10.2307/2937344|The colony defense strategies of the three honeybee species in Thailand were studied to examine the influence of predation on tropical honeybee societies. Each species focuses its defenses upon different stages in the predation sequence of detection-approach-consumption. This radiation in defense strategies apparently reflects each species' preadaptation by worker size (small, medium-sized, or large) and nest site (cavity or tree branch) to a different pattern of colony defense. Wasps, birds, and primates probably have difficulty finding the small, dispersed colonies of Apis florea, whose nests are built low on the branches of dense, shrubby vegetation. Once found, however, they are easily approached and overpowered because their low, exposed nests are accessible and their small workers inflict relatively painless stings. When overwhelmed, the bees quickly abandon their nest; later, they return to salvage wax. Ants find A. florea nests easily and at least one species (Oecophylla smaragdina) easily kills these small bees. However, sticky bands of resin encircling the nests' slender substrate branches prevent ants from invading A. florea nests. Cavity-nesting colonies of Apis cerana are conspicuous with their medium-sized bees streaming in and out of low, clearly visible entrance holes in caves and hollow tress. However, gaining access to A. cerana nests is difficult. Large predators cannot pass through the small entrance opening and small predators are overpowered by entrance guards. But if a large predator can breach a nest cavity's walls, it faces an only moderately powerful stinging defense. Apis cerana colonies are relatively small and their workers are not fiercely aggressive. Predators easily find the large, sometimes aggregated colonies of Apis dorsata, whose nests hang in the crowns of the tallest forest trees. But only skilled fliers and climbers can reach these lofty nests. Those which do face massive stinging attacks from the large colonies of these relatively giant, ferocious bees. Nests of both open-nesting species, Apis florea and A. dorsata, are protected by a three- to six-layer curtain of bees over the comb. Apis cerana colonies lack these curtains but are protected by their nest cavity walls. A curtain of inactive guards requires a large labor force. The high worker: brood ratio in A. florea relative to A. cerana colonies suggests that the age polyethism schedules of the open- and cavity-nesting species are tuned differently to generate the appropriate proportions of guard bees. Each species' colony defense system consists of numerous interwoven lines of adaptation, including nest site, nest architecture, colony population, labor allocation to defense, age polyethism schedule, colony mobility, and worker morphology, physiology, and behavior. Predation has been a pervasive and powerful force in the evolution of these tropical bee societies.
23596748|Elemental cycles are coupled directly and indirectly to ecosystem metabolism at multiple time scales. Understanding coupling in lotic ecosystems has recently advanced through simultaneous high-frequency measurements of multiple solutes. Using hourly in situ measurements of soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP), specific conductance (SpC), and dissolved oxygen (DO), we estimated phosphorus (P) retention pathways and dynamics in a large (discharge, Q  7.5 m 3 /s) spring-fed river (Ichetucknee River, Florida, USA). Across eight multi-day deployments, highly regular diel SRP variation of 39 g P/L (mean 50 g P/L) was strongly correlated with DO variation, suggesting photosynthetic control directly via assimilation, and/or indirectly via geochemical reactions. Consistent afternoon SRP maxima and midnight minima suggest peak removal lags gross primary production (GPP) by 8 hours. Two overlapping processes were evident, one dominant with maximum removal near midnight, the other smaller with maximum removal near midday. Hourly [Ca] measurements during three 24-hour deployments showed consistent afternoon minima, suggesting that calcite precipitates as GPP increases pH and mineral saturation state. Resulting P coprecipitation was modeled using SpC as a [Ca] proxy, yielding a diel P signal adjusted for the primary geochemical retention pathway. P assimilation, the dominant diel signal, was computed by interpolating between daily concentration maxima, both with and without geochemical adjustment, and converting concentration deficits to fluxes using discharge and benthic area. Adjusting for calcite co-precipitation yielded assimilation rates (13.7  5.8 mg Pm -2 d -1 ) strongly correlated with GPP, accounting for 72%  9% of gross removal, and ecosystem C:P stoichiometry (466 [ 12]:1) consistent with dominant vascular autotrophs (478 [ 24]:1). Without adjusting for co-precipitation, covariance with GPP was weaker, and C:P implausibly high. Consistent downstream P accumulation, likely from P-rich porewater seepage, varied across deployments (322% of total flux) and co-varied with discharge and respiration. Asynchronous N and P assimilation may arise from differential timing of protein and ribosome production, with the latter requiring maximal carbohydrate stores and minimal photolytic interference. This study demonstrates direct and indirect coupling of biological, hydrological, and geochemical processes and the utility of high-resolution time series of multiple solutes for understanding these linkages.
43188379|In humid, broadleaf-dominated forests where gap dynamics and partial canopy mortality appears to dominate the disturbance regime at local scales, paleoecological evidence shows alteration at regional-scales associated with climatic change. Yet, little evidence of these broad-scale events exists in extant forests. To evaluate the potential for the occurrence of large-scale disturbance, we used 76 tree-ring collections spanning ~840 000 km and 5327 tree recruitment dates spanning ~1.4 million km across the humid eastern United States. Rotated principal component analysis indicated a common growth pattern of a simultaneous reduction in competition in 22 populations across 61000 km. Growth-release analysis of these populations reveals an intense and coherent canopy disturbance from 1775 to 1780, peaking in 1776. The resulting time series of canopy disturbance is so poorly described by a Gaussian distribution that it can be described as "heavy tailed," with most of the years from 1775 to 1780 comprising the heavy-tail portion of the distribution. Historical documents provide no evidence that hurricanes or ice storms triggered the 1775-1780 event. Instead, we identify a significant relationship between prior drought and years with elevated rates of disturbance with an intense drought occurring from 1772 to 1775. We further find that years with high rates of canopy disturbance have a propensity to create larger canopy gaps indicating repeated opportunities for rapid change in species composition beyond the landscape scale. Evidence of elevated, regional-scale disturbance reveals how rare events can potentially alter system trajectory: a substantial portion of old-growth forests examined here originated or were substantially altered more than two centuries ago following events lasting just a few years. Our recruitment data, comprised of at least 21 species and several shade-intolerant species, document a pulse of tree recruitment at the subcontinental scale during the late-1600s suggesting that this event was severe enough to open large canopy gaps. These disturbances and their climatic drivers support the hypothesis that punctuated, episodic, climatic events impart a legacy in broadleaf-dominated forests centuries after their occurrence. Given projections of future drought, these results also reveal the potential for abrupt, meso- to largescale forest change in broadleaf-dominated forests over future decades.
10.2307/2937075|This study describes an experimental investigation of the hypothesis of interspecific competition between the dasyurid marsupials Antechinus stuartii and A. swainsonii, conducted between May 1978 and December 1979. Antechinuses were live-trapped, marked, and released in five natural enclosures (four experimental, one control), each established in dense forest along a valley floor in the Brindabella Range near Canberra, Australia. The enclosures were similar in size, shape, vegetation, and climate, and semi-isolated from one another by creeks or by dry, open habitat unsuitable for the marsupials. Antechinus stuartii was removed from two enclosures in July 1978 and later reintroduced to one, whereas A. swainsonii was removed from two other enclosures and later returned to one. Neither species was manipulated in the control enclosure. Comparisons of the population parameters and resource use were made for each species when it occurred in the presence and in the absence of the other. Removal of the larger and more terrestrial species, A. swainsonii, produced several effects on A. Stuartii that were consistent with the interpretation of competition. These included increased numbers; enhanced survival of newly weaned young; increases in extent of movements, home range areas, and use of structurally complex terrestrial habitat; and decreased arboreal activity. The proportion of large, terrestrial invertebrate prey in the diet also increased. The experimental reintroduction of A. swainsonii after @?8 mo produced reciprocal shifts in most of these parameters. An anomalous finding was that the mean body mass of A. stuartii declined when A. swainsonii was excluded. This was probably due to increased levels of intraspecific interference, since the decline coincided with unusually high population densities in A. stuartii. Competition with A. swainsonii had little evident effect on the time of activity of A. Stuartii. In contrast, manipulations of the numbers of A. stuartii produced no changes in the population parameters of the pattern of resource use of A. swainsonii; hence it was concluded that the competitive effects of A. stuartii on its larger congener are small. Predation, the presence of a superfluous third species (a eutherian rat) during the experiments, and genetical differences between the enclosure populations of Antechinus were rejected as possible alternative explanations of the results; none was as convincing as that of interspecific competition. probably occurs for food, and is therefore most intense in winter, when surface litter invertebrates are scarce. This study demonstrates that competition has asymmetrical effects on the two study species, and challenges the notion that competitive interactions are weak or absent in marsupial communities.
10.2307/1942441|On San Juan Island, Washington, three species of intertidal barnacles (Balanus glandula, Balanus cariosus and Chthamalus fissus) are the main prey of several species of predators, the commonest being three species of snails, Thais emarginata, Thais canaliculata and Thais lamellosa. Larvae of B. glandula settle throughout the intertidal zone but, except in quiet bays, survive to maturity only in a narrow zone at the top of the shore. In quiet bays, where predators of barnacles were scarce, and in areas of turbulent water where predators were excluded by other circumstances, adult B. glandula occurred over the whole intertidal zone. From the lower part of the intertidal zone. Predators were evidently eliminating all B. glandula from the lower part of the intertidal zone. The rates of feeding of Thais lamellosa and Thais emarginata were measured in cages on the shore. The existing population of Thais could account for all of the mortality of B. glandula which occurred at low shore levels in mid and late summer. By late autumn these predators could eat all the remaining B. glandula of that year's settlement at low levels, but at upper shore levels the Thais population could not account for all the mortality of B. glandula in summer. The Thais populations shift upwards from the lower shore levels in the autumn and it is very probable that this increased predation is enough to eliminate the barnacles at the middle and upper shore within the next year. The recruitment of B. glandula every year was quite regular. The breeding population in the narrow @'refuge@' zone at the top of the intertidal zone was capable of replacing itself as well as colonizing the middle and lower shore. The settlement below the refuge zone can be regarded simply as a regular food supply for the predator population. Because of the dependability of this food supply at upper shore levels, a predator, T. emarginata, has evolved to specialize at these upper levels. In Scotland, where the recruitment of barnacles is irregular, no such specialization is possible. Thus at least two species of predators are supported at different shore levels at San Juan Island, whereas only one species occupies the whole intertidal shore in Scotland. In Scotland, much of the mortality of young barnacles was caused by intraspecific crowding in dense populations, and these deaths provide food for scavengers, rather than predators. In contrast, at San Juan Island of the mortality of young barnacles is caused by predators. Thus the predators at San Juan Island are more efficient than those in Scotland, since they eat a much higher proportion of the available prey. Whereas in Scotland the distribution and abundance of barnacles is largely determined by competition for space, at San Juan Island the barnacles is largely determined by competition for space, at San Juan Island the barnacles are limited by predation.
10.2307/1942478|The ecological and behavioral interactions of adults of nine species of Panorpa scorpionflies were studied during 1971-1974 at eight woodland sites in southeastern Michigan, USA. The species overlap considerably in habitat use, diurnal foraging time and location, and diet. All species inhabit primarily the herb stratum of moist forests. Soft-bodied dead arthropods comprise from 88.5 to 100% of the diets of the different species. Panorpa scorpionflies are very aggressive around food. The species can be ranked linearly in relation to their ability to dominate heterospecific individuals at food. The aggressive dominance ranking of the species is related to increasing size (r = .78, P = .04). The study sites vary in Panorpa species richness from three to eight. Panorpa species clearly interact. Mark-recapture data reveal that at the site where only three species occur adults of P. banksi live longer and move less than adults of the same species at a site where six species occur. The adult seasonal distributions of the three species at the site where only three species occur are extended in comparison to the seasonal distributions of the same species at other sites with greater Panorpa species richness. Species or species groups partition the season to some extent by successional emergence. Seasonal overlap, however, is sufficient to result in competitive interactions between some species. Analyses of the seasonalities of the species reveal that the numbers of individuals and species of Panorpa present during a species' adult seasonal period inversely influence the duration of that period. The durations of the adult seasonal period of the more aggressive species are primarily influenced by the number of conspecific individuals present, whereas the durations of the adult seasonal periods of the less aggressive species are primarily influenced by the number of individuals of heterospecific and more aggressive species present. Very aggressive species cause less aggressive species to feed above the herb stratum; this may result in increased exposure to predators and to reduced longevity of the less aggressive species. I suggest that the emergence times of the species allow coexistence and have been selected in the context of interspecific competition for food. The emergence times of the species in relation to each species' aggressive dominance appears consistent with this hypothesis. The variation in species richness between sites is probably not due to the extinction of certain species because of competition, but is the result of different amounts of Panorpa habitat destruction at the sites in the past.
10.2307/1942499|Bearing-tree data from the original land-survey records of 1847-1850 were used to reconstruct the vegetation of the Big Woods and adjacent areas along the prairie-woodland border in south-central Minnesota. The characteristic tree taxa of the Big Woods were elm (Ulmus), basswood (Tilia americana), sugar maple (Acer saccharum), ironwood (Ostrya virginiana), bitternut hickory (Carya cordiformis), butternut (Junglans cinerea), and ash (Fraxinus). The most common tree was elm, which comprised 27% of the bearing trees. A buffer zone of fire-tolerant oaks and aspen generally lay between the Big Woods and prairie. The width of this zone depended on topography and on the presence of additional firebreaks, which in places formed sharp boundaries between the Big Woods and oak-aspen. The prairie-woodland border was characteristically a sharp boundary along firebreaks (water bodies and physiographic breaks). In some places very effective firebreaks formed sharp boundaries between prairie and the Big Woods, with no intervening oak-aspen zone. The vegetation was most strongly correlated with the fire-probability pattern, which was a function of both abiotic and biotic factors. Soils influenced the probability of fire, but they also were the major factor controlling the vegetation within areas of similar fire probability. Soil drainage was the most important factor controlling vegetation within the units of the overall pattern. Because the locations of firebreaks and the existing pattern of vegetation controlled the fire probability pattern, sites with virtually identical physical characteristics supported qualitatively different types of persistent or stable vegetation.
27646151|Local distributions of black spruce (Picea mariana) and white spruce (Picea glauca) are largely determined by edaphic and topographic factors in the interior of Alaska, with black spruce dominant on moist permafrost sites and white spruce dominant on drier upland sites. Given the recent evidence for climate warming and permafrost degradation, the distribution of white spruce is expected to expand, but the transition from black to white spruce may be dispersal limited: unlike the semi-serotinous black spruce, postfire regeneration of white spruce relies on seed dispersal from unburned areas. To determine the relative roles of dispersal, establishment, and growth in recruitment of white and black spruce, we studied postfire spruce regeneration in a 21-year-old burn across a white spruceblack spruce transition in the interior of Alaska. Although prefire spatial distributions of adults of the two species were well separated along the topographic sequence from upland to floodplain sites, the spatial distributions of recruits overlapped considerably. Even >700 m away from its seed source, white spruce sapling density on typical black spruce sites was high enough to form fully stocked stands. In contrast, black spruce regeneration was sparse on typical white spruce upland sites. Establishment rates of both species, estimated from a statistical model, were highest in mossy, wet depressions, which tended to have a thick residual postfire organic layer (10 cm). On all site types, height growth rates inferred from ageheight relationships were comparable for recruits of both species. On typical black spruce sites 300 m into the burn, white spruce was younger (and, therefore, shorter) than black spruce due to the timing of masting events following the fire. There was no indication that dispersal, establishment, or edaphic constraints on juvenile growth limit white spruce's capacity to invade typical black spruce stands during the recruitment stage in our study area. It is unlikely that white spruce recruits would persist to the adult stage if the permafrost returned to the original prefire levels during future postfire succession. However, if permafrost continues to degrade under climate warming, transition to a white spruce-dominated landscape could be rapid.
4539093|A theory of spatial structure in ecological communities is presented and tested. At the core of the theory is a simple allocation rule for the assembly of species in space. The theory leads, with no adjustable parameters, to nonrandom statistical predictions for the spatial distribution of species at multiple spatial scales. The distributions are such that the abundance of a species at the largest measured scale uniquely determines the spatial-abundance distribution of the individuals of that species at smaller spatial scales. The shape of the species-area relationship, the endemics-area relationship, a scale-dependent community-level spatial-abundance distribution, the species-abundance distribution at small spatial scales, an index of intraspecific aggregation, the range-area relationship, and the dependence of species turnover on interpatch distance and on patch size are also uniquely predicted as a function solely of the list of abundances of the species at the largest spatial scale. We show that the spatial structure of three spatially explicit vegetation census data sets (i.e., a
10.2307/2937055|This research was conducted to identify the factors that have permitted Populus-Salix woodland to expand into the formerly active channels of the Platte River and its two major tributaries, the South and North Platte rivers. The research included: pre-settlement vegetation reconstruction based on the General Land Office survey notes, a statistical comparison between historic rates of woodland expansion from aerial photographs and environmental variables, and a field study of seedling demography to isolate the factors controlling recruitment and survival in the modern river. Woodland expansion began in the South and North Platte rivers around 1900 and spread downstream into the Platte River. By the late 1930s, vegetation had occupied most of the former channel area of the South and North Platte rivers and was expanding into Platte River channels. Rates of channel loss in the Platte River have been as great as 10%/yr during droughts. By 1986, channel-to-woodland proportions were relatively uniform throughout the Platte River system. Statistical models indicated that sandbar succession to woodland was regulated by three environmental factors: June flows, summer drought, and ice. June flow regulated seedling recruitment and initial survival because it coincided with the main Populus-Salix seed germination period. Historic reductions in flow at this time for irrigation and to fill reservoirs exposed much of the riverbed and elevated recruitment and seedling survivorship. Late-summer seedling survival was regulated by factors that affect seedling water balance, including river stage, seedling elevation in the riverbed, and rainfall. Winter conditions exerted the largest effect on seedling survivorship. Dominant factors were air temperature, streamflow, and seedling elevation in the riverbed. Lowest survivorship occurred during cold, icy winters with relatively high flow and when most seedlings were growing on low sandbars. The dominant historic trend, of losses in channel area and gains in woodland area, has ceased in recent years. No significant declines in channel area have occurred since 1969; in several reaches channel area has significantly increased since 1969. Comparatively small changes in channel and woodland proportions are expected in the future as long as water use and climate do not change markedly. The steady state has developed because flows have come into balance with active channel area, thereby reducing recruitment and increasing the mortality of tree seedlings. Because of the importance of wide, unvegetated channels to certain avifauna, it may be desirable to manage future flows to ensure no further reduction in channel widths, even if narrowing is only temporary. Dominance by Populus and Salix on new sandbars can be explained by life history characteristics. These include large and dependable seed crops that are effectively dispersed by wind and water to optimal germination sites; rapid germination; rapid root and height growth to withstand flooding, drought, and sedimentation; tolerance of low soil fertility; and the ability of Salix to reproduce vegetatively. Pioneer vegetation and geomorphic processes (principally sedimentation) facilitate succession on floodplains by modifying the highly variable riverbed environment suitable for early successional species into relatively stable surfaces favorable for recruitment of later successional species. Much of the extensive Populus-Salix woodlands that now occupy the Platte River will be replaced by later successional tree and shrub species with lower associated faunal diversity. Maintenance of the current biotic diversity may require artificial regeneration, as is taking place along other river systems in western North America. The response of the Platte River to altered flow differed from that of other rivers. This divergent response despite similar disturbances points out the complex interrelationships among plants and hydrogeomorphic processes operating on floodplains and the difficulties associated with understanding, generalizing, and predicting the effects of human modification of streamflow on natural ecosystems.
10.2307/1942305|Palynological investigations of spring deposits were conducted as part of an interdisciplinary research effort into late Pleistocene archaeology, geology, and paleoecology of the western Missouri Ozarks. The springs, located in the Pomme de Terre River valley in Benton and Hickory Counties, Missouri, lie 400 km south of the maximum extent of the Wisconsin ice sheet on the present Great Plains-Eastern Deciduous Forest border. The valley will soon be flooded by a government impoundment. Two springs were completely excavated and three others sampled, including a spring originally excavated by Albert Koch in 1840. The pollen record, with associated plant macrofossils, is divided into three distinct zones: a lower nonarboreal pollen (NAP) and pine zone, a middle spruce- (Picea) dominated zone, and an upper zone of spruce with deciduous elements. Radiocarbon dates show that the NAP-pine zone was established prior to 40,000 BP and existed until 20,000-25,000 BP; it was deposited during the mid-Wisconsin interstade. The mid-Wisconsin interstadial vegetation of the Ozarks is interpreted as an open pine-parkland. Plant macrofossils of Pinus banksiana in this zone indicate that jack pine was present. Spruce was probably absent as no spruce macrofossils and only traces of spruce pollen were found. The associated mid-Wisconsin fauna is dominated by mastodon (Mammut americanum) with horse (Equus) and musk-ox (Symbos). With the onset of late Wisconsin full-glacial conditions, variously dated at 20,000-25,000 BP, pollen dominance shifts from NAP-pine to spruce. This is interpreted as the replacement of the pine-parkland by boreal spruce forest. Two pollen zones are apparent within the full-glacial: an older zone with up to 92% spruce pollen occurring after the transition from NAP-pine to spruce, and a younger zone with less spruce (38%) and more thermophilous deciduous tree pollen. The change to less spruce and more deciduous tree pollen apparently reflects slightly improved climatic conditions during a late phase of the full-glacial; the zone is radiocarbon dated at 16,500 BP on spruce logs. It contains abundant spruce and larch (Larix) macrofossils associated with the remains of at least 30 mastodons plus giant beaver (Castoroides), ground sloth (Paramylodon), tapir (Tapirus), deer (Odocoileus), and horse (Equus). The western Missouri Ozarks were covered by open pine-parkland from at least 40,000 BP until the start of the full-glacial 20,000-25,000 BP, then boreal spruce forest until at least 13,500 BP. Deciduous elements became more prominent in the spruce forest in its latter phase. The present oak-hickory forest developed after the decline of the spruce and is thus no older than postglacial.
10.2307/1942423|This study analyzes the circumstances under which certain lizards shift and fail to shift their habitats. At each of 20 localities, I measured the structural habitats utilized by all the diurnal arboreal lizard species as well as the availability of those habitats. I selected localities so as to include for four widespread species (Anolis grahami, A. sagrei, A. carolinensis, A. distichus) nearly all of the species-combinations in which they occur. Data were fitted to equations that (1) adjust for locality-specific differences in vegetation, and (2) estimate the direction and intensity of apparent interaction between sympatric forms. Shift was valuated both for species and separately for age and sex classes within species. Female-sized individuals shift more frequently than do adult @M @M. Linear equations that evaluate sympatric forms one at a time showed the strongest apparent competitors for a widespread from to be (1) adult @M @M rather than female-sized individuals, especially when adult @M @M represent the widespread species; (2) species of similar climatic habitat; (3) classes of similar size (especially against female-sized individuals of widespread species; and (4) classes of large size (especially against adult @M @M). The most abundant classes are the strongest apparent competitors for A. distichus but not for the other widespread species. These results are unchanged or strengthened when different habitat categories or nonlinear equations are used. Combining all sympatric forms into locality-specific linear equations supports Results 1 and 2 but is inconclusive for Results 3 and 4. The parameter proportional to the size of a refugium from interference is estimated for some cases to be significantly greater for female-size individuals than for adult @M @M. In general, results imply that animals similar to widespread forms in some niche dimension other than structural habitat are those most likely to cause shift in structural habitat. In addition, they suggest existence of a competition function with respect to size: in such a function intensity of competition is uniquely determined by the direction and amount of size difference, regardless of the competitors' absolute sizes. Competition intensity appears to (1) decrease overall with increasing difference in size, (2) be greater for a given size difference if the competitor is larger than if it is smaller, and (3) decrease at nonconstant rates, such that near complete size similarity there is a more rapid decline in intensity for smaller than larger competitors. Morphological differences between populations and short-term field observations suggest that both evolutionary and behavioral mechanisms regulate habitat shift.
41739364|Tropical forest productivity is widely assumed to be limited by soil phosphorus (P), but biogeochemical processes that deplete P also could deplete base cations, suggesting multiple resource limitation. Limitation by several resources could arise from species and functional diversity and from variation among groups in resource requirements, including ecophysiological strategies that minimize P limitation. We hypothesized that tree growth is positively related to soil base cation and P availability and negatively related to local competition; Fabaceae growth is weakly correlated with soil resources if fixed N is used indirectly to acquire other resources; growth of species with low wood density is more strongly related to soil resource availability than that of species with high wood density. Diameter growth and soil resource availability were measured in five mapped stands situated across natural soil resource gradients in lowland wet tropical forest (La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica). Soil resource availability, and associated uncertainty, was estimated for each tree using a Bayesian multivariate spatial regression model, with individual tree growth being a function of diameter, local neighborhood, and soil resources. Separately, site-level mean tree growth and resource availability were modeled using linear regression. Individual diameter growth and site mean basal area increment correlated with soil base cations and P, but rarely with N; individual growth correlated negatively with neighborhood index for only threespecies. Growth of Fabaceae was unrelated to soil resources at both individual and site levels. When species were categorized by wood density, growth was related to soil P or base cation availability, with the strongest correlation between the lowest-density species and soil P. Several resources may limit tropical forest productivity, because tree growth was similarly correlated with soil P and base cations, but functional groups responded differently. Negligible growth relationships with soil resources in Fabaceae suggest that N fixation may alleviate mineral nutrient limitations. Correlations of soil P with growth of species of low wood density and base cations with species of higher density suggests variation in resource demands among functional groups. Thus, tropical tree growth may be limited by base cations and/or P, with degree and type of resource limitation dependent on functional or taxonomic group.
10.2307/1942413|The major upland plant community types of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area (BWCA) of northeastern Minnesota, identified by multivariate analyses (clustering and canonical and discriminant analysis) of 68 stands disturbed by logging and 106 stands undisturbed by logging, include the following: lichen, jack pine-oak, red pine, jack pine-black spruce, jack pine-fir, black spruce-feather moss, maple-oak, aspen-birch, aspen-birch-white pine, maple-aspen-birch, maple-aspen-birch-fir, fir-birch, and white cedar. Each of these types is based on a complex of 53 common species, through the name may incorrectly imply that one or two dominant overstory species are indicative of the type. Other forest stands from the BWCA are quantitatively related to the regional vegetation through discriminant analysis. Succession on the uplands in the area, without disturbance, leads to fir-birch and ultimately to the white-cedar community type. Whitetail deer may have had an impact on restricting the occurrence and reproduction of the white cedar type.
10.2307/1942599|To determine whether tadpole-rearing sites (bromeliads) or oviposition substrates (leaf litter) were the objects of male defense in the position-dart frog Dendrobates pumilio, I experimentally increased the availability of these two resources in a complete two-factor factorial design for variance analysis and examined the demographic response of the frogs. I also examined the effects of resource addition on sex ratio and age-structure. Mark-recapture data were collected on experimental and control plots during the 7 mo of the treatment period, during which 4754 observations were made on 1208 marked individuals. I used a three-factor repeated measures analysis of variance to determine if resource addition affected density. The addition of oviposition substrate did not result in increased density, but the addition of bromeliads led to an increase in the density of adult males and females on treatment plots relative to the controls. To document which demographic variables were affected, animals were classified as immigrants, recruits, or survivors; all losses were assumed to be the result of emigration. The demographic variables were analyzed with three-factor repeated measures ANOVA. The increases in males resulted from increased survival on treatment plots, whereas the increase in females resulted from increased immigration, recruitment, and the accumulation of survivors. Sex ratio was not affected by resource supplementation but age-structure was; litter addition increased the proportion of juveniles on treatment plots. The population-level response suggests that bromeliad availability is limited and this resource is defended by males.
10.2307/1948495|The vertical distribution of phytoplankton standing crop, number of species, and community diversity in five transects across the ecotone of the Antarctic Convergence were studied in relation to physical and chemical habitat variables (light, temperature, salinity, density, relative stability, oxygen, phosphate, nitrate, and silicate) and to bacteria and yeasts. Two distinct phytoplankton communities were observed, one north and one south of the convergence. Within the convergence the southern diatomaceous Antarctic community sinks with the formation of Antarctic Intermediate Water and can be traced underneath the northern dinoflagellate subantarctic community by use of indicator species. Chaetoceros bulbosum, Chaetoceros dichaeta, Dactyliosolen antarctica, and Eucampia zoodiacus were used as indicators of the Antarctic community, and Rhizosolenia delicatula, Amphidinium amphidinoides, Oxytoxum variabile, and Phalacroma pulchellum represented the subantarctic community. Submergence of the Antarctic community is corroborated by the vertical distribution of phytoplankton biomass. South of the convergence in the upwelling system, biomass maxima of the phytoplankton consist of Antarctic species. Within the convergence separate subsurface biomass maxima contain the Antarctic community, and both Antarctic and subantarctic species constitute surface maxima of standing crop. In the upper water of the oceanic system north of the convergence, subantarctic species make up most of the biomass, where as small numbers of Antarctic species were observed in the aphotic zone. Surface layers of the euphotic zone in both systems were dominated by a small number of species. Maxima of species number occurred deeper than those of biomass, possibly reflecting the result of competitive exclusion. A low community diversity was observed in the upper water of each area, and a high ecotonal diversity was found at the convergence. A linear multiple regression analysis showed the relative importance of habitat variables in predicting the vertical distribution of the phytoplankton both within the oceanic and upwelling systems and within their transition zone. Water-mass structure, turbulence, light, silicate, and an index of heterotrophic conditions can be used to predict up to 66% of phytoplankton variation across the convergence. Additional prediction can only be achieved by incorporation of biological rate data and nonlinear expression of variable interaction in simulation models based on the present analysis.
10.2307/3100057| We investigated predation risk and competition as they affected small-mammal foraging behavior in semiarid north-central Chile. Giving-up densities (GUD) of seeds were used to measure the foraging activity of the three most common small mammals at the site: degu (Octodon degus), Darwin's leaf-eared mouse (Phyllotis darwini), and the olivaceous field mouse (Akodon olivaceus), under shrubs (cover) and in the open on predator-excluded and competitor-excluded (Octodon) plots. Experiments were conducted during both new and full moons. Monthly small-mammal censuses using standard mark-recapture techniques provided data on movement, reproduction, and long-term fluctuations in density between 1989 and 1994. Diurnal Octodon foraged more (had lower GUD) in the absence of predators (although this was confounded by a numerical increase resulting from predator exclusion), and foraged more under shrubs than in the open. However, the lack of a significant cover x predator exclusion interaction and thermoregulation studies suggest that physiological constraints play a greater role than predation risk in determining micro-habitat selection by Octodon. Predation risk, as influenced by lunar light levels and predator exclusion, had only weak effects on microhabitat selection by Phyllotis. The strong tendency of Octodon to forage under cover could depress food availability, forcing Phyllotis to feed more in the open. Concomitantly, Phyllotis exhibits several morphological characters that would favor detection and avoidance of predators. There is extensive evidence that interspecific competition is the primary constraint on Akodon foraging; predation risk appears to be relatively unimportant. Akodon is also a less efficient forager than the two other species, having significantly higher GUD, on average. This is partially offset by differences in reproductive biology; Akodon exhibits extremely rapid demographic responses to favorable changes in the environment. A fourth species, Abrothrix longipilis, may coexist in the system because of its opportunistic nature, but no data are available on its foraging efficiency. These behavioral and biotic interactions occur within a background of periodic El Nio-Southern Oscillations (ENSO), which may ultimately contribute to species co-existence. 
4539103|Little is known about ecosystem-level responses to multiple, climatic disturbance events. In the subtropical forests of Puerto Rico, the major natural disturbances are hurricanes and droughts. We tested the ecosystem-level effects of these disturbances in sites with different land use histories. From 1989 to 1992, data were collected to determine the effects of Hurricane Hugo and two droughts on litterfall inputs, fine-root biomass, and decomposition rates in three topographic locations (stream, riparian, upslope) within two watersheds. From 1994 to 1998, we added a third watershed and an experiment in which coarse-wood levels were manipulated to simulate hurricane inputs. Data were collected on tree and palm growth rates, litterfall inputs, fine-root biomass, and decomposition rates. From 1994 to 1998, four hurricanes and three droughts were recorded. Measured parameters had unique responses and recovery rates to hurricanes and droughts. Litterfall inputs returned to long-term mean rates within one month following droughts and small-to-moderate hurricanes but required five years to recover after an intense hurricane. In contrast, fine-root biomass recovered seven months after an intense hurricane but failed to recover after five years following a severe drought. Despite the dramatic effects of these weather events on some ecosystem parameters, we found that aboveground measures of tree and palm growth were more affected by preexisting site conditions (e.g., nitrogen availability due to past land use activities) than hurricanes or droughts. The addition of coarse woody debris increased tree and palm growth, fine-root biomass, and litter production; however, in the case of tree and palm growth, this effect was least measurable in the sites with the highest productivity. We found that decomposition rates were more controlled by litter quality than weather conditions. In conclusion, we found that certain ecosystem structures (e.g., canopy structure and fine-root biomass) generally recovered more slowly from disturbance events than certain ecosystem processes (e.g., plant growth rates, decomposition rates). We also found that past land use activities and disturbance legacies were important in determining the responses and recovery rates of the ecosystem to disturbance.
10.2307/1942528|The most common system responses attributed to microfloral grazers (protozoa, nematodes, microarthropods) in the literature are increased plant growth, increased N uptake by plants, decreased or increased bacterial populations, increased CO"2 evolution, increased N and P mineralization, and increased substrate utilization. Based on this evidence in the literature, a conceptual model was proposed in which microfloral grazers were considered as separate state variables. To help evaluate the model, the effects of microbivorous nematodes on microbial growth, nutrient cycling, plant growth, and nutrient uptake were examined with reference to activities within and outside of the rhizosphere. Blue grama grass (Bouteloua gracilis) was grown in gnotobiotic microcosms containing sandy loam soil low in inorganic N, with or without chitin amendments as a source of organic N. The soil was inoculated with bacteria (Pseudomonas paucimobilis or P. stutzeri) or fungus (Fusarium oxysporum), with half the bacterial microcosms inoculated with bacterial-feeding nematodes (Pelodera sp. or Acrobeloides sp.) and half the fungal microcosms inoculated with fungal-feeding nematodes (Aphelenchus avenae). Similar results were obtained from both the unamended and the chitin-amended experiments. Bacteria, fungi, and both trophic groups of nematodes were more abundant in the rhizosphere than in nonrhizosphere soil. All treatments containing nematodes and bacteria had higher bacterial densities than similar treatments without nematodes. Plants growing in soil with bacteria and bacterial-feeding nematodes grew faster and initially took up more N than plants in soil with only bacteria, because of increased N mineralization by bacteria, NH"4^+-N excretion by nematodes, and greater initial exploitation of soil by plant roots. Addition of fungal-feeding nematodes did not increase plant growth or N uptake because these nematodes excreted less NH"4^+-N than did bacterial-feeding nematode populations and because the N mineralized by the fungus alone was sufficient for plant growth. Total shoot P was significantly greater in treatments with fungus or Pelodera sp. than in the sterile plant control or treatments with plants plus Pseudomonas stutzeri until the end of the experiment. The additional mineralization that occurs due to the activities of microbial grazers may be significant for increasing plant growth only when mineralization by microflora alone is insufficient to meet the plants' requirements. However, while the advantage of increased N mineralization by microbial grazers may be short-term, it may occur in many ecosystems in those short periods of ideal conditions when plant growth can occur. Thus, these results support other claims in the literature that microbial grazers may perform important regulatory functions at critical times in the growth of plants.
10.2307/2963456|Strict coevolution requires that interactions among organisms be species-specific. We assessed the relative roles of host- and habitat-specificity in determining the match between a genus of myrmecophytic trees and a guild of obligate plant-ants in the moist tropical forests of Madre de Dios, Peru. Four locally coexisting but habitat-restricted Cecropia species were cultivated in screen tents until all plants had developed myrmecophytic traits. Saplings were then placed within replicate blocks of each of two habitat types: riversides and small forest light gaps. Colonization events were recorded every 3 d between June and August of 1992, and queens were later removed from stem internodes for identification and brood censuses. A similar experiment, conducted in September through November of 1993, included just two species of Cecropia hosts. Effects of host species and habitat on queen colonization rates were evaluated by log-likelihood goodness-of-fit tests and contingency table tests. For three ant species, we also conducted queen preference experiments to compare queen behaviors across a range of host plants. Differences among ants in the extent of habitat-specificity vs. host-specificity provide evidence for multiple evolutionary routes to obligate association with Cecropia. Habitat-specificity exceeded host-specificity in Azteca ovaticeps (Dolichoderinae), for which queen preference experiments revealed no significant discrimination among hosts. This extreme riverside specialist is thought to have descended from generalist live-stem nesters in second-growth habitats. In Azteca australis, host-specificity was strong, and in this species only, directed toward hosts where brood production was most successful. Conflicting habitat associations in the two experiments indicated the weakness or absence of a consistent habitat affiliation in Azteca australis and suggested that colonization frequencies were influenced instead by proximity to foundress sources. Close relatives of A. australis live in exposed carton nests, which may have been positioned ancestrally on key resource plants, e.g., those producing lipid- and amino-acid-rich pearl bodies. Pachycondyla luteola (Ponerinae) exhibited both strong habitat and host associations and may have undergone pairwise coevolution with its forest-gap-dwelling primary host. Queens of Camponotus balzani (Formicinae), possibly a recent and secondary associate of Cecropia, were overrepresented in forest gap habitat but were host generalists, underrepresented only on a host with extremely small internodes. Apparently greater host-specificity in C. balzani at later stages of colony establishment may be due to differential post colonization mortality on the various hosts. Attack of ant queens by parasitoid wasps was strongly concentrated in the linear riverside habitat and weak to absent in the patchily distributed forest gap habitat. Due to lower rates of either parasitoid attack or other forms of queen mortality, Camponotus balzani experienced greater success in the forest gap habitat, where it was overrepresented in colonization experiments. Historical coincidences and preadaptations appear to have strongly influenced pairings between Cecropia species and their obligate plant-ants and account for much of the "apparent" niche partitioning observed in the system. Species-specificity seems to be determined mainly by coincident habitat affiliations of ants and plants ("coordinated dispersal") and by preadapted capacities of ants to distinguish among host-plant species. Multiple mechanisms for species-specificity may be characteristic of relationships in which associates disperse separately from one another (i.e., show horizontal transmission). Our results are consistent with the view that coadaptation and co-cladogenesis are more likely in systems where dispersal of associates is tightly coupled.
43188376|A vegetation classification approach is needed that can describe the diversity of terrestrial ecosystems and their transformations over large time frames, span the full range of spatial and geographic scales across the globe, and provide knowledge of reference conditions and current states of ecosystems required to make decisions about conservation and resource management. We summarize the scientific basis for EcoVeg, a physiognomic-floristic-ecological classification approach that applies to existing vegetation, both cultural (planted and dominated by human processes) and natural (spontaneously formed and dominated by nonhuman ecological processes). The classification is based on a set of vegetation criteria, including physiognomy (growth forms, structure) and floristics (compositional similarity and characteristic species combinations), in conjunction with ecological characteristics, including site factors, disturbance, bioclimate, and biogeography. For natural vegetation, the rationale for the upper levels (formation types) is based on the relation between global-scale vegetation patterns and macroclimate, hydrology, and substrate. The rationale for the middle levels is based on scaling from regional formations (divisions) to regional floristic-physiognomic types (macrogroup and group) that respond to meso-scale biogeographic, climatic, disturbance, and site, factors. Finally, the lower levels (alliance and association) are defined by detailed floristic composition that responds to local to regional topo-edaphic and disturbance gradients. For cultural vegetation, the rationale is similar, but types are based on distinctive vegetation physiognomy and floristics that reflect human activities. The hierarchy provides a structure that organizes regional/continental vegetation patterns in the context of global patterns. A formal nomenclature is provided, along with a descriptive template that provides the differentiating criteria for each type at all levels of the hierarchy. Formation types have been described for the globe; divisions and macrogroups for North America, Latin America and Africa; groups, alliances and associations for the United States, parts of Canada, Latin America and, in partnership with other classifications that share these levels, many other parts of the globe.
10.2307/2937345|The life histories of four species of intertidal limpets, Cellana tramoserica, Notoacmea petterdi, Patella peroni, and Patelloida alticostata, which occur on the same shore but in different tidal zones, are compared. The population dynamics (recruitment, growth, and mortality) and the causes of mortality of each species are investigated. C. tramoserica and P. peroni have similar rates of growth and mortality, but P. peroni has a higher reproductive effort (the proportion of assimilated energy devoted to reproduction). Pd. alticostata has lower rates of growth and mortality than the above species, but its reproductive effort is similar to that of C. tramoserica. N. petterdi has the lowest rates of growth and mortality, but its reproductive effort is similar to, or perhaps slightly lower than that of C. tramoserica and Pd. alticostata. The causes of mortality vary among species. Predation by wrasses is the main cause of mortality of P. peroni and Pd. alticostata, which occur in the sublittoral and lower littoral zones, respectively. The principal cause of mortality of adult C. tramoserica, a midlittoral species, is starvation. N. petterdi, which occurs in the supralittoral zone, is a very long-lived species and the causes of its mortality could not be determined. Semiquantitative estimates of extrinsic adult mortality rates are obtained for the four species of limpet, and these are shown to be correlated with interspecific differences in reproductive effort. Adults of each species assume different levels of risk during reproduction. The adults of species which occur in seasonal environments appear to take greater risks when breeding than those of species which occupy more constant environments.
3100016|To understand how tree growth has responded to recent climate warming, an understanding of the tree-climate-site complex is necessary. To achieve this, radial growth variability among 204 trees established before 1850 was studied in relation to both climatic and site factors. Seventeen forest stands were sampled in the Spanish Central Pyrenees. Three species were studied: Pinus uncinata, Abies alba, and Pinus sylvestris. For each tree, a ring-width residual chronology was built. All trees cross-dated well, indicating a common influence of the regional climate. For the 1952-1993 period, the radial growth of all species, especially P. uncinata, was positively correlated with warm Novembers during the year before ring formation and warm Mays of the year the annual ring formed. Differences in species-stand elevation modulated the growth-climate associations. Radial growth in P. uncinata at high elevation sites was reduced when May temperatures were colder and May precipitation more abundant. In the 20th century, two contrasting periods in radial growth were observed: one (1900-1949) with low frequency of narrow and wide rings, low mean annual sensitivity, and low common growth variation; and another (1950-1994) with the reverse characteristics. The increased variability in radial growth since the 1950s was observed for all species and sites, which suggests a climatic cause. The low shared variance among tree chronologies during the first half of the 20th century may result from a "relaxation" of the elevation gradient, allowing local site conditions to dominate macroclimatic influence. These temporal trends may be related to the recently reported increase of climatic variability and warmer conditions. This study emphasizes the need to carefully assess the relationships between radial growth and site conditions along ecological gradients to improve dendroclimatic reconstructions.
10.2307/2937150|Multiple regression analyses were performed on a worldwide 236-site data set compiled from studies that compared species composition, aboveground net primary production (ANPP), root biomass, and soil nutrients of grazed vs. protected, ungrazed sites. The objective was to quantitatively assess factors relating to differential sensitivities of ecosystems to grazing by large herbivores. A key question in this assessment was: Do empirically based, broad-scale relationships correspond to ecological theories of plant-animal interactions and conceptual frameworks for management of the world's grazing lands? Changes in species composition with grazing were primarily a function of ANPP and the evolutionary history of grazing of the site, with level of consumption third in importance. Changes in species composition increased with increasing productivity and with longer, more intense evolutionary histories of grazing. These three variables explained >50% of the variance in the species response of grasslands or grasslands-plus-shrublands to grazing, even though methods of measurement and grazing systems varied among studies. Years of protection from grazing was a significant variable only in the model for shrublands. Similar variables entered models of change in the dominant species with grazing. As with species composition, sensitivities of change in dominant species were greater to varying ecosystem-environmental variables than to varying grazing variables, from low to high values. Increase of the dominant species under grazing were predicted under some conditions, and decreases were more likely among bunch grasses than other life-forms and more likely among perennials than annuals. The response of shrublands was different from that of grasslands, both in terms of species composition and the dominant species. Our analyses support the perception of grazing as a factor in the conversion of grasslands to less desirable shrublands, but also suggest that we may be inadvertently grazing shrublands more intensively than grasslands. Percentage differences in ANPP between grazed and ungrazed sites decreased with increasingly long evolutionary histories of grazing and increased with increasing ANPP, levels of consumption, or years of treatment. Although most effects of grazing on ANPP were negative, some were not, and the statistical models predicted increases in ANPP with grazing under conditions of long evolutionary history, low consumption, few years of treatment, and low ANPP for grasslands-plus-shrublands. The data and the models support the controversial hypothesis that grazing can increase ANPP in some situations. Similar to species variables, percentage differences in ANPP between grazed and ungrazed treatments were more sensitive to varying ecosystem-environmental variables than to varying grazing variables. Within levels not considered to be abusive @'overgrazing,@' the geographical location where grazing occurs may be more important than how many animals are grazed or how intensively an area is grazed. Counter to the commonly held view that grazing negatively impacts root systems, there was no relationship between difference in ANPP with grazing and difference in root mass; as many positive as negative differences occurred, even though most ANPP differences were negative. Further, there was a weak relationship between change in species composition and change in ANPP, and no relationship with root mass, soil organic matter, or soil nitrogen. All three belowground variables displayed both positive and negative values in response to grazing. Current management of much of the world's grazing lands based on species composition criteria may lead to erroneous conclusions concerning the long-term ability of a system to sustain productivity.
10.2307/2657212|Nitrogen uptake and cycling was examined using a six-week tracer addition of
10.2307/1942356|The breeding migrations and wandering movements of Notophthalmus viridescens were monitored at several ponds in Dryden, Tompkins County, New York. Breeding migrations occurred in both the spring (April-May) and fall (August-October, November, or December) to all permanent ponds. The spring migrations involved both eft migrants and adult migrants, their relative numbers varying considerably from pond to pond. The fall migrations involved eft migrants almost exclusively. Eft migrants were maturing juveniles returning to the water for the first time; adult migrants were individuals which had bred before and subsequently spent some time, often an entire winter, on land. The sex ratio of eft migrants was 42 to 47% males, that of aquatic adults at least 55% males; male eft migrants had a greater future life expectancy than do female eft migrants. Male migrants arrived earlier in the spring, female migrants arrived earlier in the fall. Breeding migrants tended to use linear depressions (e.g. streambeds, slope junctions) as migration routes; their routes were conspicuously altered by seasonal changed in vegetation. About 57% of N. viridescens migrants, but only 3% of Ambystoma maculatum migrants, reached the ponds during the day; the remainder entered at night. Breeding migrations were more strongly correlated with rainfall and temperature in early spring than in late spring and in late fall than in early fall. For a brief period following their arrival at a pond migrants wandered back and forth between water and land, especially during rainy weather. Fully aquatic adults abandoned temporary ponds as or after these dried up. In July, August, and September some adults left permanent ponds, especially during rainy weather.
10.2307/2937103|I quantitatively test the hypothesis that four taxa or @'types@' (species or subspecies) of Red Crossbills (Loxia curvirostra) in the Pacific Northwest have diversified morphologically in bill characters in response to alternative adaptive peaks presented by their food: seeds in conifer cones. Hypothetically, each adaptive peak corresponds to one conifer species whose seeds are (1) produced regularly from year to year, (2) held in cones through late winter when seed is most limiting, and (3) protected from depletion by potential noncrossbill competitors. Four such conifers, termed @'key conifers,@' are present (Tsuga heterophylla, Pseudotsuga menziesii, Pinus ponderosa, and Pinus contorta var. latifolia). I use data on foraging efficiency for 31 captive crossbills of four types to determine the optimal bill size and palate structure for foraging on the key conifers. As predicted, if each type is adapted for foraging on a key conifer, the observed morphology of a given type is often the predicted optimal size morphology of foraging on its respective key conifer. Two of the types have mean bill sizes (bill depth) equalling their predicted optimal size. For one of the remaining types, the observed differs from the optimum by 0.4 mm; I was unable to predict an optimal size for the remaining type. Optimal bill size varies with season. Bill sizes corresponded more closely to the optima for winter (lean period) than for summer. Observed mean width of the palate groove, in which crossbills hold conifer seeds while the seeds are being husked, was consistently close to the estimated optimal groove width. Optimal groove width was correlated (r^2 = 1.00, n = 4) with seed size (cube root of mass), suggesting optimal groove width is determined by seed size. Overall, each crossbill type has either the optimal bill size or optimal husking groove width, or both, for foraging on their key conifers. Fitness set analyses indicate that there are substantial trade-offs in foraging efficiency. The best phenotype for foraging on one conifer is often only one-half as efficient on other conifers. All four fitness sets are concave, implying selection against intermediate phenotypes. I conclude, first, that reliability of seeds on key conifers during periods of food scarcity is a critical feature in the ecology and evolution of crossbills. Second, optimization of morphological traits occurs even in populations in highly variable environments. Third, disruptive selection against intermediate phenotypes is likely. This should maintain, if not reinforce, the distinctiveness of types. Fourth, the diversity of cone structure and seed size among key conifers is ultimately responsible for the diversification of crossbills.
10.2307/2657227|The International Tundra Experiment (ITEX) is a collaborative, multisite experiment using a common temperature manipulation to examine variability in species response across climatic and geographic gradients of tundra ecosystems. ITEX was designed specifically to examine variability in arctic and alpine species response to increased temperature. We compiled from one to four years of experimental data from 13 different ITEX sites and used meta-analysis to analyze responses of plant phenology, growth, and reproduction to experimental warming. Results indicate that key phenological events such as leaf bud burst and flowering occurred earlier in warmed plots throughout the study period; however, there was little impact on growth cessation at the end of the season. Quantitative measures of vegetative growth were greatest in warmed plots in the early years of the experiment, whereas reproductive effort and success increased in later years. A shift away from vegetative growth and toward reproductive effort and success in the fourth treatment year suggests a shift from the initial response to a secondary response. The change in vegetative response may be due to depletion of stored plant reserves, whereas the lag in reproductive response may be due to the formation of flower buds one to several seasons prior to flowering. Both vegetative and reproductive responses varied among life-forms; herbaceous forms had stronger and more consistent vegetative growth responses than did woody forms. The greater responsiveness of the herbaceous forms may be attributed to their more flexible morphology and to their relatively greater proportion of stored plant reserves. Finally, warmer, low arctic sites produced the strongest growth responses, but colder sites produced a greater reproductive response. Greater resource investment in vegetative growth may be a conservative strategy in the Low Arctic, where there is more competition for light, nutrients, or water, and there may be little opportunity for successful germination or seedling development. In contrast, in the High Arctic, heavy investment in producing seed under a higher temperature scenario may provide an opportunity for species to colonize patches of unvegetated ground. The observed differential response to warming suggests that the primary forces driving the response vary across climatic zones, functional groups, and through time.
10.2307/2937144|Although effects of insect herbivory on host plant growth and reproduction are well documented, few studies have examined how decreases in host plant fitness might influence community-level patterns, such as plant succession. The purpose of this study was to examine how a specialist flea beetle, Altica subplicata, influences (1) the growth and survivorship of its host plant, sand-dune willow (Salix cordata), and consequently, (2) patterns of plant succession on sand dunes. Growth and mortality of S. cordata were compared over a 3-yr period in experimental plots in which host plants were either protected from beetle feeding (with mesh cages) or exposed to beetle feeding (without cages). The changes in the abundance and biomass of other plant species in these experimental plots were also monitored for the 3-yr period. Growth rates of host plants were significantly influenced by the herbivore exclusion treatment. Plants protected from beetle feeding added 2.2 times as much height and 2.0 times as much diameter as did plants exposed to beetle feeding. Differences between growth rates of plants with and without beetles were greater on the west dune, which had significantly greater amounts of beetle damage, than on the east dune. Furthermore, within plots exposed to beetle feeding, areas with greater amounts of beetle damage had significantly lower height and diameter growth rates than did areas with lesser amounts of beetle damage. A separate experiment showed that mesh cages per se did not influence height growth, diameter growth, or number of shoots added over a 2-yr period. Plant mortality was also strongly affected by the herbivore exclusion treatment. Eighty-four percent of the plants that died over the 3-yr period of the study were in plots with beetles present. Mortality was 3x and 6x higher for plants with beetles than for plants without beetles on the east and west dune, respectively. On the west dune, which had higher beetle damage and plant mortality, the amount of beetle damage incurred by plants explained 88% of the variation in plant mortality. Herbivory on S. cordata also had significant, indirect effects on the changes in abundance of neighboring, non-host plants. For both monocot and dicot herbs, there were greater increases in numbers of plants in plots with beetle feeding than in plots with beetles absent, but only on the west dune with its greater beetle damage. Numbers of herbaceous monocots and herbaceous dicots increased 2.5 times and 1.5 times more, respectively, in plots with beetles than in plots without beetles. The changes in abundance of other Salix plants displayed the same trends, but differences were not statistically significant. In contrast, other woody plants showed significantly greater decreases in abundance in plots with beetles than in plots without beetles on the west dune. Individual plant species displayed both positive and negative changes in abundance in response to exclusion of herbivores from S. cordata. Biomass of two common herbaceous monocots (Juncus spp.) increased more in plots with beetles present, but for the most common herbaceous dicots (Aster and Solidago spp.), increases were greater in plots with beetles absent. Biomass of Salix myricoides, the most common other willow, on the east dune increased more in plots with beetles than in plots without beetles. In general, species that did not show differential increases in abundance also did not show differential growth to already-present plants. After 3 yr of herbivore exclusion, there were no significant differences in species richness, species diversity, or species evenness in plots with and without beetles. Thus, herbivory on S. cordata caused increases in the abundance of herbaceous plants and decreases in the abundance of other woody plants, but over 3 yr did not influence overall species diversity. It appears that selective herbivory by Altica subplicata directly decreases growth and increases mortality of S. cordata and that damage of this single plant species also exerts an indirect impact on the patterns of plant succession on sand dunes.
10.2307/2657142|Spatial and temporal variation in the distribution and abundance of site-attached fish species inhabiting small, isolated patches of coral reef has been attributed to variability in larval recruitment. However, the relative importance of settlement and postsettlement processes in determining the structure of fish communities in general, i.e., including non-site-attached species inhabiting large sections of contiguous reef, remains to be determined. Here, we examine the degree of spatial and temporal variation in community structure and population density of fish inhabiting sections of coral reef varying in size and connectivity. To investigate spatial variability in fish community structure and population density, we surveyed 36 sites on contiguous reef and 39 patch-reef sites varying in size and isolation from neighboring patches. Ordination and regression analyses indicated that the structure of fish assemblages inhabiting contiguous reef varied predictably along habitat gradients. In contrast, intrinsic habitat characteristics, such as the shelter availability and the composition of the substratum, were apparently unrelated to the structure of fish assemblages on patch reefs. For sites on contiguous reef, multiple regression models explained a significant proportion of spatial variation in the population density of 10 site-attached and vagile species (including 90% of variation in the density of Pomacentrus moluccensis, a site-attached damselfish). For patch-reef sites, models of spatial variation in population density were significant for six species, five of which were not site attached. The overall pattern across most species was that patch-reef models were characterized by a reduced r
4134787|We analyzed and radiocarbon-dated 205 fossil woodrat middens from 14 sites in central and northern Wyoming and adjacent Utah and Montana to document spatiotemporal patterns of Holocene invasion by Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma). Holocene migration into central and northern Wyoming and southern Montana from the south proceeded by a series of long-distance dispersal events, which were paced by climate variability and structured by the geographic distribution and connectivity of suitable habitats on the landscape. The migration of Utah juniper into the region involved multiple longdistance dispersal events, ranging from 30 to 135 km. One of the earliest established populations, on East Pryor Mountain in south central Montana, is currently the northernmost population of the species. Establishment by long-distance dispersal of that population and another in the Bighorn Basin occurred during a period of relatively dry climate between 7500 and 5400 years ago. Further expansion of these initial colonizing populations and backfilling to occupy suitable sites to the south was delayed during a wet period from 5400 to 2800 years ago. Development of dry conditions 2800 years ago led to a rapid expansion in which Utah juniper colonized sites throughout its current range. Landscape structure and climate variability play important roles in governing the pattern and pace of natural invasions and deserve close attention in studying and modeling plant invasions, whether exotic or natural.
10.2307/1942412|Biotic and abiotic pathways of incident energy are rarely considered together in comparable detail, so little is known about whether energy or carbon relations remain constant in contrasting energy environments. An experiment to determine the fates of energy and carbon in cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum L.) was carried out on steep (40@?) north- and south-facing slopes on a small earth mound, using many small lysimeters to emulate swards of cheatgrass. Meteorological conditions and energy fluxes that were measured included air and soil temperatures, relative humidity, wind speed, incoming and reflected shortwave radiation, net all-wave radiation, heat flux to the soil, and evaporation and transpiration separately. The fate of photosynthetically fixed carbon during spring growth (31 March to 31 May) was determined by separation of the plant tissues into mineral nutrients, ash, crude protein, crude fat, crude fiber, and nitrogen-free extract (NFE) (the proximate analysis scheme routinely used for feed analysis) for roots, shoots, and seeds separately. Temperatures and humidities were not notably different between slopes. However, all terms in the radiation balances were significantly larger on the south exposure, and the sensible heat flux to the atmosphere on the south exposure was much greater than on the north. The energy-saturated south exposure was subjected to water stresses much earlier than the north exposure. Total transpired water, the fraction of energy used to transpire water, and soil water content simultaneously showed an abrupt decrease in slope at about 10% soil water content (-14 bars average water potential) in the 60-cm lysimeter soil profile, indicating a rather sudden decrease in water availability to the plants. This change occurred near day 30 on the south exposure, and near day 45 on the north exposure, implying that water was readily available to the north exposure for about 2 wk longer than on the south exposure. Root and seed production were both about 30% greater on the north exposure than on the south, but shoot production was not different. Heats of combustion (caloric content) differed between roots, shoots, and seeds, but not between exposures. Total production and total energy fixation were not statistically different on the two exposures, because the greater biomass and variability of the shoots overwhelmed the statistically significant differences in roots and seeds. Incident shortwave radiation was very much greater on the south exposure than on the north, so the south exposure was much less efficient in converting solar energy into chemical energy stored in plant tissues. The clearest difference in carbon pathways occurred for crude protein in shoot tissues at the end of the growing season (23 g m^-^2 on the north compared to 30 g m^-^2 on the south). Since both exposures began the growing season with 33 g m^-^2, shoot protein was translocated to other tissues during the season, to a greater extent on the north exposure than on the south. The crude fiber and NFE (g m^-^2) in seed tissues were both greater on the north exposure, reflecting only a greater total seed biomass; but for roots and shoots there were no appreciable differences between exposures other than crude protein. The average individual seed weight was only about 10% heavier on the north exposure, although the north produced more than a third more total seed biomass. The composition of an average seed indicated that the difference in seed weight was caused primarily by about 8% more NFE in north exposure seeds, probably starches in the endosperm. By contrast, the crude protein in an average seed was almost identical between slopes--possibly a very important compensation for seedling size and vigor. Homeostasis (self-regulation) was evident as a gradation decreasing in the order seed viability (very strongly homeostatic) > seed composition (strong) > shoot and root composition (moderately strong) > average seed weight = shoot production (moderate) > seed number = mineral content (weak) > total root and seed production (no detectable homeostasis).
10.2307/1942451|In 1954 Hutchinson and Slobodkin suggested that populations can be viewed as feedback systems that could resonate in response to environmental fluctuation with a frequency of approximately one generation time. In this paper we pursue this observation by constructing several mathematical models based on the demographic equations governing population age structure. The existence of this and several other effects of ecological importance are investigated for populations coupled by age-specific interactions.
10.2307/1942388|The sexes of the Red-eyed Vireo, an abundant insectivorous bird in eastern deciduous woodlands, differed in their foraging heights, with an overlap of only about 35%. The males foraged higher than the females, and non-random sequences of movements were employed to maintain this separation. The foraging level and the nest height of female Red-eyes was similar, whereas the males foraged closer to their singing perches. Thus the foraging efficiency of both sexes was likely greater in accordance with their differing behavior roles. The @'small@' territory (1.3-1.7 acres) of this species actually consists of a cylinder extending from the forest canopy to the low understory. The associated White-eyed Vireo (Vireo griseus) was generally separated from Red- eyed Vireo by habitat, and the Yellow-throated Vireo (Vireo flavifrons) overlaps in habitat but possesses structural and behavioral differences which indicate different prey preferences. Foraging behavior of migrating Red-eyed Vireos differs markedly from that of breeding birds. Differences were also noted between summer and winter foraging behavior patterns in the White-eyed Vireo. All three vireo species exhibit species-specific patterns of foraging movements. Two other foliage-gleaning insectivorous birds occupying the same forests, the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) and the Acadian Flycatcher (Empidonax virescens), also possess species-specific foraging behaviors (niche-exploitation patterns).
10.2307/2937047|A detailed and relatively evenly resolved food web of Little Rock Lake, Wisconsin, was constructed to evaluate the sensitivity of food-web patterns to the level of detail (degree of resolution) in food-web data. This study presents definitions (e.g., ecosystem food webs) and methods for constructing and reducing the resolution of food webs to provide relatively pragmatic and rigorous touchstones for consistency in future food-web studies. This analysis suggests that food-web patterns such as the scale-invariant links-per-species ratio, short chain lengths, and limited number of trophic levels are constrained by the resolution of food-web data rather than by ecological factors. Patterns less sensitive to changes in resolution such as directed connectance (the proportion of observed directed links to all possible directed links) may be robust food-web attributes. The food web of Little Rock Lake appears to be the first highly and evenly resolved food web of a large natural ecosystem originally documented for the purpose of examining quantitative food-web patterns. This ecosystem food web contains roughly twice as many species as the largest web to date. It also may provide the most credible portrait available of the detailed trophic structure of a whole ecosystem. The 93-trophic-species web of Little Rock Lake differs from previously published trophic-species webs by having more links per species (L/S = 11), longer chain lengths (average: @>10, maximum: @>16), species at higher trophic levels (maximum: = 12), higher fractions of intermediate species, and smaller fractions of top species and links to top species. The sensitivity of quantitative food-web patterns to changes in resolution was examined in several series of tropically aggregated Little Rock Lake webs. Each of the series starts with a highly and relatively evenly resolved web with 182 consumer, producer, and decomposer taxa and ends with low-resolution webs with 9 aggregates of taxa. Taxa were aggregated based on the proportion of predators and prey shared by the taxa. Different series of webs were generated using different criteria for linking aggregates to evaluate the sensitivity of food-web patterns to linkage criteria. The sensitivity analysis revealed that several, but not all, quantitative food-web patterns are very sensitive to systematic aggregation of the web. Sensitive patterns include number of links per species, linkage complexity, the distributions of chain lengths and species among trophic levels, and the proportions of top species and links to top species. Less-sensitive patterns include connectance, the ratio of predators to prey, the proportions of intermediate and basal species, and the proportions of links that are between intermediate and basal species. Directed connectance is the only pattern examined that is both very robust to trophic aggregation and generally comparable to other community webs. Quantitative food-web patterns in published community webs are generally similar to highly aggregated Little Rock Lake webs (versions with 9-40 aggregates). These findings suggest that previously described community food webs are severely aggregated versions of more elaborate webs similar to that of Little Rock Lake.
10.2307/2657235|The goal of this study is to identify the mechanisms and measure the strengths of interactions within and among size classes in experimental populations of rainbow trout, Onchorynchus mykiss. The metric that we used to assess the density-dependent effects was based on consumptive allometry and predator-prey theory. We demonstrate that the interactions among size classes were asymmetrical, favoring larger-bodied individuals. Descriptions of diet and spatial resource use, measures of prey availability, and risk to intra-specific interactions allowed assessment of the relative contributions of exploitative and interference competitive interactions among size classes. Growth of the larger classes was strongly density-dependent and driven primarily by exploitative competition. Growth of the smallest size class was controlled by a combination of exploitative competition within and among size classes and interference competition with larger-bodied conspecifics. This combination of interactions among size classes within populations resulted in a body-size-based asymmetry favoring the larger size classes. Survival of all size classes was positively related to both body size and growth rate. We speculate that the net result of these processes within size-structured populations is compensatory, leading to stable population dynamics.
41739383|Predation acts as a selective pressure, driving prey adaptation. Predators can also evolve counter-defenses to increase the likelihood of successful attack. Investment in either trait can be costly, leading to a trade-off between the traits and other fitness components. Costs for defense have been shown experimentally to depend on environmental factors such as resource availability. This suggests that costs can increase with population size, rather than remaining constant as models often assume. Using a quantitative trait model with predator-prey coevolution, we investigate how both population and trait dynamics are affected by density-dependent prey defense cost ("variable cost") vs. density-independent cost ("fixed cost"). We assume predator counter-defense cost is always density independent. We also investigate the effect of relative speeds of prey and predator evolution on population and trait dynamics, by varying a parameter that determines each population's additive genetic variance. For both models, increasing the speed of predator evolution always has a stabilizing effect on the dynamics, while increasing the speed of prey evolution (within a biologically reasonable range) is largely destabilizing. Within the plausible range of prey evolution speed, variable cost of prey defense is more stabilizing than fixed cost. Our results suggest that density-dependent costs of defense can have important effects on predator-prey dynamics, even when evolution is relatively slow. Our results might also help to explain why many real populations do not display predator-prey cycles.
40385216|Ecological studies often focus on average effects of environmental factors, but ecological dynamics may depend as much upon environmental extremes. Ecology would therefore benefit from the ability to predict the frequency and severity of extreme environmental events. Some extreme events (e.g., earthquakes) are simple events: either they happen or they don't, and they are generally difficult to predict. In contrast, extreme ecological events are often compound events, resulting from the chance coincidence of run-of-the-mill factors. Here we present an environmental bootstrap method for resampling short-term environmental data (rolling the environmental dice) to calculate an ensemble of hypothetical time series that embodies how the physical environment could potentially play out differently. We use this ensemble in conjunction with mechanistic models of physiological processes to analyze the biological consequences of environmental extremes. Our resampling method provides details of these consequences that would be difficult to obtain otherwise, and our methodology can be applied to a wide variety of ecological systems. Here, we apply this approach to calculate return times for extreme hydrodynamic and thermal events on intertidal rocky shores. Our results demonstrate that the co-occurrence of normal events can indeed lead to environmental extremes, and that these extremes can cause disturbance. For example, the limpet Lottia gigantea and the mussel Mytilus californianus are co-dominant competitors for space on wave-swept rocky shores, but their response to extreme environmental events differ. Limpet mortality can vary drastically through time. Average yearly maximum body temperature of L. gigantea on horizontal surfaces is low, sufficient to kill fewer than 5% of individuals, but on rare occasions environmental factors align by chance to induce temperatures sufficient to kill >99% of limpets. In contrast, mussels do not exhibit large temporal variation in the physical disturbance caused by breaking waves, and this difference in the pattern of disturbance may have ecological consequences for these competing species. The effect of environmental extremes is under added scrutiny as the frequency of extreme events increases in response to anthropogenically forced climate change. Our method can be used to discriminate between chance events and those caused by long-term shifts in climate.
10.2307/2657158|Of the marine animals that spend their adult lives inhabiting benthic communities, most have a planktonic larval phase. In this paper, we derive the relationship between the physical oceanographic processes that transport these larvae and the strength of species interactions in the benthic habitat. We review a model of hierarchical competition for space between two species with planktonic larvae and develop a model for predatorprey dynamics in which prey are space-limited. Lotka-Volterra approximations to these models are developed. The approximations provide per capita interaction strength (the effect of an individual of one species on the per capita growth rate of another) and population interaction strength (the effect of a population of one species on the per capita growth rate of another) as functions of parameters in the original model. Per capita and population interaction strengths of dominant competitors on subordinates decrease in magnitude as offshore advection of larvae increases. The per capita effect of prey on predators also decreases as offshore advection increases, but population interaction strength is independent of offshore advection rate. Conversely, the per capita effect of predators on prey is independent of offshore larval advection rate, but the population effect decreases as offshore advection increases. We also develop submodels that simulate experimental removals of competitors and predators. Measurements of interaction strength derived from these simulations decrease as offshore advection of larvae increases. These results predict that a latitudinal gradient in upwelling intensity in the northeast Pacific produces a gradient in the intensity of species interactions in rocky intertidal communities.
27646106|We conducted a long-term experiment in grassland with the aim of elucidating grassland dynamics in relation to variations in rainfall amount and spatial and temporal variation in disturbance. In particular we aimed to increase our understanding of ecosystem dynamics and function, species redundancy, invasion biology, and other related topics. We studied the dynamics of serpentine annual grassland in northern California over the period 19832002 in a replicated series of experimental plots comprising controls, gopher exclosures, and aboveground herbivore exclosures. Annual rainfall amount varied greatly during the study period, which included two major El Nio events and a period of prolonged below-average rainfall. Gopher disturbance was highly variable both spatially and temporally but was positively correlated with soil depth. Disturbance was reduced but not eliminated from the gopher exclosures and was significantly increased in the aboveground herbivore exclosures. Grassland dynamics were driven by rainfall amounts and distributions that had the most pronounced effects on the dominant plant species, while gopher disturbance had additional effects on the rarer species. Effects of excluding aboveground herbivores were swamped by a large increase in gopher disturbance within aboveground exclosures. Overall species numbers were reduced during a period of below-average rainfall but recovered in subsequent years. There was a large array of different responses of individual plant species to both rainfall and disturbance. Our results provide support for the "insurance" hypothesis, which suggests that biodiversity buffers ecosystem processes against environmental changes because different species (or phenotypes) respond differently to these changes, leading to functional compensations among species. Here, a species that was at very low abundance levels at the start of the study (Microseris douglasii) temporarily increased in abundance to become one of the dominant species in the grassland following a period of prolonged below-average rainfall. We also observed the repeated invasion of the serpentine grassland by the nonnative grass Bromus hordeaceus, which increased greatly in abundance following both of the major El Nio events. The results emphasize the importance of long-term observations in providing a context for shorter-term studies and allowing analysis of plant community responses to climate variation and disturbance, particularly in the face of ongoing global change.
10.2307/1942160|A method for quantitatively evaluating the successional relationships which exist between species was tested on data from Menominee County, Wisconsin. The method is based upon an examination of the changes in interspecific association which occur when successively larger diameter classes of one or both species are used as the basis for the calculation of an association index. With this method it is possible in most cases to determine which species tend to replace which others. In addition, by averaging replacement tendencies in various ways, index values can be arrived at which express the degree to which a particular species may be characterized as pioneer or climax. The results of the analysis agree well with other studies on succession in these forests. This method should prove useful in elucidating successional relationships, especially in areas where these are not well understood.
40385208|The current rate of invasive species introductions is unprecedented, and the dramatic impacts of exotic invasive plants on community and ecosystem properties have been well documented. Despite the pressing management implications, the mechanisms that control exotic plant invasion remain poorly understood. Several factors, such as disturbance, propagule pressure, species diversity, and herbivory, are widely believed to play a critical role in exotic plant invasions. However, few studies have examined the relative importance of these factors, and little is known about how propagule pressure interacts with various mechanisms of ecological resistance to determine invasion success. We quantified the relative importance of canopy disturbance, propagule pressure, species diversity, and herbivory in determining exotic plant invasion in 10 eastern hemlock forests in Pennsylvania and New Jersey (USA). Use of a maximum-likelihood estimation framework and information theoretics allowed us to quantify the strength of evidence for alternative models of the influence of these factors on changes in exotic plant abundance. In addition, we developed models to determine the importance of interactions between ecosystem properties and propagule pressure. These analyses were conducted for three abundant, aggressive exotic species that represent a range of life histories: Alliaria petiolata, Berbers thunbergii, and Microstegium vimineum. Of the four hypothesized determinants of exotic plant invasion considered in this study, canopy disturbance and propagule pressure appear to be the most important predictors of A. petiolata, B. thunbergii, and M. vimineum invasion. Herbivory was also found to be important in contributing to the invasion of some species. In addition, we found compelling evidence of an important interaction between propagule pressure and canopy disturbance. This is the first study to demonstrate the dominant role of the interaction between canopy disturbance and propagule pressure in determining forest invasibility relative to other potential controlling factors. The importance of the disturbance-propagule supply interaction, and its nonlinear functional form, has profound implications for the management of exotic plant species populations. Improving our ability to predict exotic plant invasions will require enhanced understanding of the interaction between propagule pressure and ecological resistance mechanisms.
27646073|Vegetation dynamics in complex landscapes depend on interactions among environmental heterogeneity, disturbance, habitat fragmentation, and seed dispersal processes. We explore how these features combine to affect the regional abundances and distributions of three Quercus (oak) species in central Spain: Q. faginea (deciduous tree), Q. ilex (evergreen tree), and Q. coccifera (evergreen shrub). We develop and parameterize a stochastic patch occupancy model (SPOM) that, unlike previous SPOMs, includes environmentally driven variation in disturbance and establishment. Dispersal in the model is directed toward local (nearby) suitable habitat patches, following the observed seed-caching behavior of the European Jay. Model parameters were estimated using Bayesian methods and survey data from 12 047 plots. Model simulations were conducted to explore the importance of different dispersal modes (local directed, global directed, local random, global random). The SPOM with local directed dispersal gave a much better fit to the data and reproduced observed regional abundance, abundanceenvironment correlations, and spatial autocorrelation in abundance for all three species. Model simulations suggest that jay-mediated directed dispersal increases regional abundance and alters speciesenvironment correlations. Local dispersal is estimated to reduce regional abundances, amplify speciesenvironment correlations, and amplify spatial autocorrelation. Parameter estimates and model simulations reveal important species-specific differences in sensitivity to environmental perturbations and dispersal mode. The dominant species Q. ilex is estimated to be highly fecund, but on the edge of its climatic tolerance. Therefore Q. ilex gains little from directed dispersal, suffers little from local dispersal, and is relatively insensitive to changes in habitat cover or disturbance rate; but Q. ilex is highly sensitive to altered drought length. In contrast, the rarest species, Q. coccifera, is well adapted to the climate and soils but has low fecundity; thus, it is highly sensitive to changes in dispersal, habitat cover, and disturbance but insensitive to altered drought length. Finally, Q. faginea is estimated to be both at the edge of its climatic tolerance and to have low fecundity, making it sensitive to all perturbations. Apparently, co-occurring species can exhibit very different interactions among dispersal, environmental characteristics, and physiological tolerances, calling for increased attention to species-specific dynamics in determining regional vegetation responses to anthropogenic perturbations.
23596920|Nearly all ecosystems have been altered by human activities, and most communities are now composed of interacting species that have not co-evolved. These changes may modify species interactions, energy and material flows, and food-web stability. Although structural changes to ecosystems have been widely reported, few studies have linked such changes to dynamic food-web attributes and patterns of energy flow. Moreover, there have been few tests of food-web stability theory in highly disturbed and intensely managed freshwater ecosystems. Such synthetic approaches are needed for predicting the future trajectory of ecosystems, including how they may respond to natural or anthropogenic perturbations. We constructed flow food webs at six locations along a 386-km segment of the Colorado River in Grand Canyon (Arizona, USA) for three years. We characterized food-web structure and production, trophic basis of production, energy efficiencies, and interaction-strength distributions across a spatial gradient of perturbation (i.e., distance from Glen Canyon Dam), as well as before and after an experimental flood. We found strong longitudinal patterns in food-web characteristics that strongly correlated with the spatial position of large tributaries. Above tributaries, food webs were dominated by nonnative New Zealand mudsnails (62% of production) and nonnative rainbow trout (100% of fish production). The simple structure of these food webs led to few dominant energy pathways (diatoms to few invertebrate taxa to rainbow trout), large energy inefficiencies (i.e., <20% of invertebrate production consumed by fishes), and right-skewed interaction-strength distributions, consistent with theoretical instability. Below large tributaries, invertebrate production declined 18-fold, while fish production remained similar to upstream sites and comprised predominately native taxa (80100% of production). Sites below large tributaries had increasingly reticulate and detritus-based food webs with a higher prevalence of omnivory, as well as interaction strength distributions more typical of theoretically stable food webs (i.e., nearly twofold higher proportion of weak interactions). Consistent with theory, downstream food webs were less responsive to the experimental flood than sites closest to the dam. We show how human-induced shifts to food-web structure can affect energy flow and interaction strengths, and we show that these changes have consequences for food-web function and response to perturbations.
43187891|In shallow aquatic systems, benthic and pelagic primary producers typically compete for light and nutrients along opposing vertical supply axes: pelagic algae shade the benthic habitat; conversely, benthic algae intercept the nutrient flux from the sediment to the pelagic habitat. We present a general framework for analyzing such spatially asymmetric resource competition across habitat boundaries using a mechanistic, dynamical model. We visualize the mechanisms determining the outcome of these cross-habitat interactions using zero-net-growth isoclines, resource supply points, and resource consumption vectors. In extensive invasion analyses, we characterize the abiotic and competitive persistence boundaries of pelagic and benthic primary producers, which are set by environmental factors determining nutrient and light supply and are modified by resource use by the competitor in the respective other habitat. We note several qualitative differences between cross-habitat and "classical" within-habitat resource competition. First, coexistence of cross-habitat competitors is facilitated by, but does not require niche differentiation with respect to, the utilization of resources. Because each species has a competitive edge for the resource that is supplied from "its" side of the system, a competitor that is inferior in utilizing both resources can sometimes coexist with, or even exclude, a superior competitor. Second, increasing the external supply of one resource (the nutrient) may initially favor both competitors, until a breakpoint is reached where the benthic producer goes abruptly extinct. Finally, whether a given pair of cross-habitat competitors coexist or shows alternative states may depend on the environment. Specifically, benthic and pelagic algae may coexist at low nutrient and light supply but produce alternative states at high nutrient and light supply. Alternative states are, in turn, promoted by any algal trait combination that increases the spatial asymmetry in resource consumption, i.e., leads to a higher nutrient consumption in the benthic habitat and/or a higher light consumption in the pelagic habitat. In a first empirical application, we show that predictions from our model give a good fit to published data on benthic and pelagic primary production in temperate and arctic lakes spanning a broad range of nutrient environments.
4539055|Describing the relative magnitude and controls of herbivory and decomposition is important in understanding the trophic transference, recycling, and storage of carbon and nutrients in diverse ecosystems. We examine the variability in herbivory and decomposition between and within a wide range of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. We also analyze how that variability is associated with differences in net primary production and producer nutritional quality. Net primary production and producer nutritional quality are uncorrelated between the two types of system or within either type. Producer nutritional quality is correlated to the percentage of primary production consumed by herbivores or percentage of detrital production decomposed annually, regardless of whether the comparison is made between the two types of systems or within either type of system. Thus, producer nutritional quality stands out as a consistent indicator of the importance of consumers as top-down controls of producer biomass and detritus accumulation and nutrient recycling. However, absolute consumption by herbivores and absolute decomposition (both in
27646126|The forage maturation hypothesis (FMH) proposes that ungulate migration is driven by selection for high forage quality. Because quality declines with plant maturation, but intake declines at low biomass, ungulates are predicted to select for intermediate forage biomass to maximize energy intake by following phenological gradients during the growing season. We tested the FMH in the Canadian Rocky Mountains by comparing forage availability and selection by both migrant and nonmigratory resident elk (Cervus elaphus) during three growing seasons from 20022004. First, we confirmed that the expected trade-off between forage quality and quantity occurred across vegetation communities. Next, we modeled forage biomass and phenology during the growing season by combining ground and remote-sensing approaches. The growing season started 2.2 days earlier every 1 km east of the continental divide, was delayed by 50 days for every 1000-m increase in elevation, and occurred 8 days earlier on south aspects. Migrant and resident selection for forage biomass was then compared across three spatial scales (across the study area, within summer home ranges, and along movement paths) using VHF and GPS telemetry locations from 119 female elk. Migrant home ranges occurred closer to the continental divide in areas of higher topographical diversity, resulting in migrants consistently selecting for intermediate biomass at the two largest scales, but not at the finest scale along movement paths. In contrast, residents selected maximum forage biomass across all spatial scales. To evaluate the consequences of selection, we compared exposure at telemetry locations of migrant and resident elk to expected forage biomass and digestibility. The expected digestibility for migrant elk in summer was 6.5% higher than for residents, which was corroborated with higher fecal nitrogen levels for migrants. The observed differences in digestibility should increase migrant elk body mass, pregnancy rates, and adult and calf survival rates. Whether bottom-up effects of improved forage quality are realized will ultimately depend on trade-offs between forage and predation. Nevertheless, this study provides comprehensive evidence that montane ungulate migration leads to greater access to higher-quality forage relative to nonmigratory congeners, as predicted by the forage maturation hypothesis, resulting primarily from large-scale selection patterns.
10.2307/1942564|The pollen and plant-macrofossil stratigraphy of Wolf Creek, an extensive marsh within one of the oldest drumlin fields in central Minnesota, is described for the period 20,500 to 9150 yr ago. The pollen stratigraphy is presented both as percentages and as @'absolute@' influx. Both the pollen and macrofossil data have been analyzed by numerical zonation procedures to reveal the major stratigraphic patterns with the two data sets. The vegetational reconstructions presented are based on the pollen percentage and influx data, on macrofossil assemblages, on comparisons of modern and fossil pollen spectra, and on the present ecology of the individual taxa concerned. From 20,500 to 14,700 yr ago, a mosaic of tundra-like vegetation prevailed, with wide-spread @'tundra-barrens@' of Dryas integrifolia, Arenaria rubella, Silene acaulis, and Vaccinium uliginosum var. alpinum. Between 14,700 and 13,600 yr ago, shrub vegetation with dwarf birch, Empetrum, willows, alder, and Shepherdia canadensis developed as a transitional phase prior to the establishment of spruce-dominated woodland 13,600 yr ago. Between this time and 10,000 yr ago, little change occurred in the upland vegetation, except for the expansion of some deciduous elements @? 12,250 yr ago. Local changes in wetland assemblages occurred, primarily in response to changes in lake level. At @?10,000 yr ago, Pinus banksiana expanded at the expense of spruce to form a mixed coniferous-deciduous forest. Climatic interpretation of this vegetational development suggests a progressive increase in temperature since 14,700 yr ago. This unidirectional trend in climatic development contrasts with the glacial history of the state for the time period of interest, as the Lake Superior ice lobe advanced three times between 16,000 and 12,000 yr ago. The lack of correspondence between the pollen stratigraphy and the glacial history is discussed, and hypotheses are presented to explain this apparent anomaly.
27806876|We present a new approach to determine the number and composition of guilds, using the hyperdiverse leaf-litter ant fauna as a model, based on appropriate morphological variables and species co-occurrence null models to describe the complex asemblages of interacting species community structure at the 1-m 2 scale. We obtained 18 linear morphometric measures from 949 workers of 171 leaf-litter ant species (18 762 measurements) surveyed in four Atlantic Forest localities to test whether the assemblages are morphologically structured; the morphological characters were selected to indicate diet and foraging habits. Principal components analysis was used to characterize the morphospace and to describe the guild structure (number of species and composition). The guild proportionality assembly rule (significant tendency toward constant proportion of species in guilds) was assessed at the 1-m 2 scale. Our analysis indicates that the division of leaf-litter ants into guilds is based mainly on microhabitat distribution in the leaf-litter, body size and shape, eye size, and phylogeny. The same guild scheme applied to four more sites shows that diferent Atlantic confirmed for most guilds, suggesting that there are guild-specific limitations on species coexistence within assemblages; on the other hand, in a few cases the variance in guild proportion was greater than expected under the null assumptions. Other studies on ant functional group classification are partially supported by our quantitative morphological analysis. Our results, however, imply that there are more compartments than indicated in previous models, particularly among cryptic species (confined to soil and litter) and tropical climate specialists. We argue that a general null model for the analysis of species association based on morphology can reveal objectively defined groups and may thus contribute to a robust theory to explain community structure in general and have important consequences on studies of litter ant community ecology in particular.
10.2307/2937123|The balance of forces determining the successful control of ragwort Senecio jacobaea by introduced insects was investigated in a field experiment by manipulating the time of disturbance, the level of interspecific plant competition, and the level of herbivory by the cinnabar moth Tyria jacobaeae and the ragwort flea beetle Longitarsus jacobaeae. We used a factorial design containing 0.25-m^2 plots arranged as 4 Blocks x 2 Disturbance Time (plots were tilled in Fall 1986 or Spring 1987) x 3 Plant Competition levels (vegetation other than ragwort was Removed, Clipped, or Unaltered) x 2 Cinnabar Moth levels (Exposed, Protected) x 2 Flea Beetle levels (Exposed, protected). The response of ragwort was measured as colonization, survivorship, and reproduction of the first ragwort generation, establishment of juveniles in the second generation, and changes in ragwort biomass from 1987 through 1990. We also made annual measurements from 1987 through 1990 of the allocation of space (the limiting resource in the Unaltered competition treatment) among the categories ragwort, other species, litter, and open space. Natural enemy responses were characterized by relating variation in the concentration of enemies and the concentration of ragwort among patches. We found that abundant buried seed and localized disturbances combined to activate incipient ragwort outbreaks, and that interspecific plant competition and herbivory by the ragwort flea beetle combined to inhibit the increase and spread of incipient outbreaks. Time of disturbance had little effect on the outcome of biological control. Under conditions in the Removed and Clipped treatments (where there was sufficient open space for germination and establishment), reduction in seed production in the first generation caused by cinnabar moth larvae led to a reduction in plant numbers in the second generation, but caused only a weak effect on ragwort cover and no detectable effect on ragwort biomass over the longer term from 1986 through 1990. At the spatial scale examined, inhibition by the ragwort flea beetle and plant competition took the extreme form of elimination of all ragwort individuals except the pool of seed buried in the soil. Our findings lead us to (1) reject the view that successful biological control leads to a stable pest-enemy equilibrium on a local spatial scale, (2) strongly endorse @'search and destroy@' and weakly endorse @'complementary enemies@' strategies suggested by Murdoch et al. (1985) as ways to improve control, and (3) emphasize resource limitation in the pest at low density as a key feature distinguishing biological control of weeds from biological control of insects.
10.2307/1942486|The watershed of Ward Creek, a tributary to oligotrophic Lake Tahoe in the Sierra Nevada, has been investigated since 1971 with the objective of improving our knowledge of processes of nutrient and sediment release and transport to the lake. Quantitative data on selected stream water parameters were collected for 3 yr (1972-1975) at three stations on Ward Creek, two on the main upper tributaries and one near the stream mouth. Comparative data were collected at a stream mouth station on adjacent Blackwood Creek in the 3rd yr. The parameters were selected on the basis of their significance to eutrophication of Lake Tahoe. Precipitation in a normal year is over 90% snow but annual patterns vary widely and rainfall at any time of year can be highly important in sediment and nutrient transport. Water discharge and the flux of suspended sediments, NO"3-N, phosphorus, iron and trace metals were dominated by the spring snowmelt runoff from mid-April to mid-June. However, in 1974 heavy fall and summer rains accounted for a large percentage of the annual flux of sediments and nutrients in a total of only 14 d. The spring runoff was characterized by distinct diel water discharge patterns. Similar but not coincident patterns were found to exist for sediments and nutrients, including NO"3-N, but not for soluble phosphorus. The Ward watershed has 87% the area of Blackwood but discharge proportionately much lower quantities of sediment and nutrients in comparable water yields per hectare in water year 1975. This contrast in fluxes was probably accounted for in the history of greater disturbance by man in Blackwood Canyon. The principal source of suspended sediments in Ward Creek was streambank erosion in the lower reaches of the channel. The dominant form of inorganic nitrogen in Ward was NO"3-N derived from precipitation, symbiotic nitrogen fixation and nitrification of organic nitrogen in forest soil. Phosphorus and iron were almost entirely in particulate form and thus their periods of flux occurred during high flows and sediment transport. Sediment and nutrient loading of Lake Tahoe from the Ward and Blackwood watersheds reflects a history of soil disturbance and vegetation removal. Logging, fire and stream channel diversion have been the dominant perturbations. Conservative extrapolation of annual loading data from this study to the entire basin indicates that algal nutrient levels in the lake probably have increased sufficiently in the century of man's intensive disturbance of the basin watersheds to account for increased phytoplankton and periphyton production that have been measured and observed since 1958.
4539069|Phytoplankton diversity, limiting resources, and disturbance were studied in two reservoirs, Eagle Mountain Lake (EML) and Joe Pool Lake (JPL), in north Texas, USA, for three summer growing seasons and two winters. Availabilities of phosphorus, nitrogen, and silicon were measured as chemical concentrations, and availability of light was measured as irradiance during the photoperiod, averaged over the depth of the surface mixed layer. A resource was defined as limiting whenever its availability fell below a threshold, treated as a parameter to be fitted. Depth of the surface mixed layer and wind speed were taken as indices of disturbance associated with episodic mixing. Hydrological disturbance was gauged by rainfall, inflow, and the variation of lake level. We found that diversity was strongly and significantly correlated with the number of limiting resources in one lake (JPL), but not the other (EML). The onset of nitrogen and phosphorus limitation during the summer growing season is associated with increased phytoplankton diversity in JPL. Regression modeling detected decreasing relationships between diversity and disturbance indices in one lake (JPL), but concave-down relationships in the other (EML), though the peaks of these relationships did not lie within the usual range of disturbance. Predictive regressions for diversity incorporating both limiting resources and disturbance were partitioned into unique and shared effects of these factors. There was a large unique effect of the number of limiting resources in JPL, but otherwise the shared effects were large relative to unique effects.
10.2307/1942611|Fire history was determined by fire scar analysis in a 73-km^2 subalpine watershed in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, USA. Evidence was found for 15 fires since 1600, of which 7 were major fires that burned >4 ha, destroyed the existing forest, and initiated secondary succession. Most of the upland forest area was burned by large, destructive fires in the middle and late 1700's. Fires since then have been small and have occurred at long intervals. Fire frequency in this area is partly controlled by changes in the fuel complex during succession. Fuels capable of supporting a crown fire usually do not develop until a stand is 300-400 yr old, and ignitions prior to that time usually extinguish naturally before covering more than a few hectares. Thereafter a destructive crown fire is likely whenever lightning ignites small fuels during warm, dry, windy weather. On the extensive subalpine plateaus of Yellowstone National Park there appears to be a natural fire cycle of 300-400 yr in which large areas burn during a short period, followed by a long, relatively fire-free period during which a highly flammable fuel complex again develops. The 73-km^2 study area appears to be about midway between major fire events in this cycle. This, rather than human fire suppression, apparently is the major reason for the small number and size of fires in the area during the last 180 yr. On the basis of the fire history data, the sequence of vegetation mosaics during the last 200 yr was reconstructed for the watershed. Indices of landscape diversity were computed for each reconstruction, treating forest types and successional stages as taxa and incorporating components of richness, evenness, and patchiness. Landscape diversity was highest in the early 1800's following the large fires in the 1700's, then declined in the late 1800's during a 70-yr period when no major fires occurred and the landscape was dominated by even-aged forests developing on the areas burned in the 1700's. Landscape diversity has increased somewhat during the last half-century as a result of two small fires and the effects of the mountain pine beetle. These landscape reconstructions for the last 200 yr suggest that the Yellowstone subalpine ecosystem is a nonsteady-state system characterized by long-term, cyclic changes in landscape composition and diversity. Such cyclic patterns may significantly influence wildlife habitat, streamflow, nutrient cycling, and other ecological processes and characteristics within the Park, and they may be an important consideration in judging whether recent ecological changes are natural or man induced. The landscape reconstructions were also made using a simulation model based on hypothetical fire management policies of total fire exclusion and selective fire control (permitting only small fires to burn). These hypothetical management policies generally reduced the richness and patchiness of the landscape compared to the natural fire regime, but they increased the evenness and reduced the magnitude of periodic fluctuations in overall landscape diversity. At times, overall landscape diversity may actually be higher with a fire control policy than with a natural fire regime. At other times, fire significantly increases landscape diversity, as would be expected.
10.2307/1942573|The mode of pollination was studied in 2 dwarf mistletoes, Arceuthobium douglasii and A. strictum, from Utah and northern Mexico. Insect visitations to the staminate flowers of A. strictum were common. Visits were found to be rare, however, to the pistillate flowers and to either sex of A. douglasii. Pollen was found to be consistently liberated by the wind from the well-exposed anthers. Air-borne pollen concentration decreased rapidly with distance from the source. No inferences, however, could be made from the data as to dispersal distance. The paucity of insect visitations, the abundance of air-borne pollen, and the moderate to high seed set combined with the absence of apomixis (in A. douglasii) were considered evidence for an anemophilous pollination syndrome. The genus as a whole appears to be anemophilous based on the uniformity of the reproductive morphology. The floral characteristics of Arceuthobium were reevaluated with respect to their suggested role in wind pollination.
10.2307/2937041|We report on a new statistical test for detecting density dependence in univariate time series observations of population abundances. The test is a likelihood ratio test based on a discrete time stochastic logistic model. The null hypothesis is that the population is undergoing stochastic exponential growth, stochastic exponential decline, or random walk. The distribution of the test statistic under both the null and alternate hypotheses is obtained through parametric bootstrapping. We document the power of the test with extensive simulations and show how some previous tests in the literature for density dependence suffer from either excessive Type I or excessive Type II error. The new test appears robust against sampling or measurement error in the observations. In fact, under certain types of error the power of the new test is actually increased. Example analyses of elk (Cervus elaphus) and grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) data sets are provided. The model implies that density-dependent populations do not have a point equilibrium, but rather reach a stochastic equilibrium (stationary distribution of population abundance). The model and associated statistical methods have potentially important applications in conservation biology.
10.2307/2657246|McCune and Allen (1985) asked the question "Will similar forests develop on similar sites?" and concluded that dissimilar old-growth forests had developed on similar sites due to historical factors (colonization, disturbance, etc.). We asked "Do similar zooplankton communities develop in similar ponds?" We compared zooplankton community structure and function in 12 newly constructed experimental ponds during 1 yr of natural colonization and analyzed a suite of physical-chemical variables to evaluate the assumption of environmental similarity among ponds. Ponds were similar for the measured environmental variables. However, zooplankton communities were structurally different, as indicated by analyses of species presence/absence, colonization and species accrual curves, and taxa (rotifer, copepod, cladoceran, and Chaoborus) density and biomass. Species varied widely in their colonization abilities. Zooplankton communities also differed in productivity of some taxa and community-level respiration rates. Scale was important in detecting structure and function differences among zooplankton communities. Species- and taxa-level analyses showed clear differences among communities, but community-level analyses of structure (species richness, total density and biomass) and function (productivity, respiration, and ammonia regeneration rates) could not identify distinct sets of communities. Community structure and function may be comparable in sensitivity for detecting change but need to be compared at equivalent scales. Dispersal (as evidenced by colonization history) was a regulator of new zooplankton communities, because it did not occur rapidly or uniformly among similar ponds. All zooplankton do not disperse readily. The extent to which dispersal limits older zooplankton communities is unknown, but genetic studies indicate low dispersal rates among established populations. Dispersal also regulates assemblages of organisms expected to be less vagile than zooplankton and in various ecosystems, indicating that "supply-side" and metapopulation concepts are valuable for community ecology. Priority effects may have lasting influence on subsequent community structure, depending on colonization rates and sequences. We propose explicit recognition (and careful examination) of a commonly assumed but rarely tested "quorum effect": local abiotic and biotic processes regulate communities and arrival processes do not, because potential members have already arrived. Given either priority or quorum effects, dispersal may be an important, often-overlooked process regulating community structure and function, especially when it is not rapid.
10.2307/1942512|A streambank salamander community has proved to be an ideal system for investigating resource allocation and the evolution of community organization. Four aspects of microhabitat were investigated: substrate, substrate moisture, proximity to surface water, and size/type of cover utilized. Selection of substrate particle size was strongly positively correlated intra- and interspecifically (particularly the latter) with salamander body size, appearing to be a highly adaptive feature. The breadth or diversity of utilization of microhabitat components was interspecifically inversely related to body size. Definite shifts in microhabitat utilization and narrowing of niche (resource) breadths were observed in the presence of larger congeners. The mechanism of the shifts as well as the selective force that molded the organization of this community appear to be interspecific interference competition. Therefore, body sizes and species compositions in streambank salamander communities are determined by substrate size, its patchiness, and the presence of interference competitors. Observed macrohabitat distribution patterns have been analytically described and can be predicted by a knowledge of microhabitat preferences and niche breadths. The ratios of snout-vent lengths or head widths between adjacent species on a body size gradient for both adults and juveniles were remarkably constant, generally between 1.2 and 1.3. Mean prey size (width, length, and volume) also formed a geometric spacing which paralleled body sizes. The coefficient of variation (standard deviation/mean) was constant within a given measure of prey size. Morphological ratios for sympatric competitors in the range of 1.2 to 1.3 have been interpreted by investigators as character displacement to allocate prey sizes and therefore minimize competition. Such interpretations must be made carefully because in this study observed body size differences primarily reflect microhabitat allocation (the principal niche dimension of this study) and only secondarily allocation of prey sizes. Also, species packing (d/w) along the prey size resource gradient is much greater than anticipated by the theoretical May-MacArthur model and is demonstrated to be high in a community of opportunistic generalist insectivores. Species packing also requires careful interpretation because in reality spacings and widths of utilization functions are not uniform and separation of community members along a single niche dimension is rarely if ever encountered. Total niche overlap among community members (species and age classes) can accurately be determined because the relationships among the four microhabitat resources and the prey size dimension are known. The use of prey taxa as a niche dimension for opportunistic generalistic insectivores either overestimates or underestimates total niche overlap, since the utilization of prey items is a function of their size, the microhabitat preference of the predator, and stochastic events of prey occurrences. The community appears to be well coadapted since the following have been demonstrated: (1) total niche overlap is low, therefore minimizing competitive interactions, (2) interspecific predation could not be documented and must be minimal, and (3) demographic strategies are consistent in all macrohabitats regardless of congeneric composition.
27646080|Predicting vegetation shifts under climate change is a challenging endeavor, given the complex interactions between biotic and abiotic variables that influence demographic rates. To determine how current trends and variation in climate change affect seedling establishment, we analyzed demographic responses to spatiotemporal variation to temperature and soil moisture in the southern Appalachian Mountains. We monitored seedling establishment for 10 years in five plots located along an elevational gradient of five dominant tree species: Acer rubrum, Betula spp., Liriodendron tulipifera, Nyssa sylvatica, and Quercus rubra. A hierarchical Bayes model allowed us to incorporate different sources of information, observation errors, and the inherent variability of the establishment process. From our analysis, spring temperatures and heterogeneity in soil moisture emerge as key drivers, and they act through nonlinear population demographic processes. We found that all species benefited from warmer springs, in particular the species found on dry slopes, N. sylvatica, and those dominant at higher elevations, Betula spp. and Q. rubra. This last species also benefited from dry environments. Conversely, L. tulipifera, which is abundant on mesic sites, experienced highest establishment rates at high moisture. The mechanisms behind these results may differ among species. Higher temperatures are apparently more important for some, while dry conditions and reduced pathogenic attacks on their seeds and new seedlings have a large impact for others. Our results suggest that only communities found at higher elevations are in danger of regional extinction when their habitats disappear given the current climatic trends. We conclude that the recruitment dynamics of the communities where these species are dominant could be affected by minor changes in climate in ways that cannot be predicted using only climate envelopes, which use different variables and miss the nonlinearities.
10.2307/1942392|Several of Anisoptera maintain their body temperature more constant than ambient temperature. Species that spend most of their active period on perches (perchers) and make only short flights thermoregulate heliothermically, primarily by means of postural adjustments. Some of the species that fly continuously (fliers) are endothermic regulators during flight. They control body temperature by: (1) controlling metabolic heat production by alternately using gliding or powered flight; (2) controlling heat loss by altering circulation between thorax and abdomen. Small fliers are unable to regulate well because they are subject to high rates of convective heat loss. Cooling constants, as defined by Newton's law of cooling, are related to thoracic weight by a negative power function over a wide size range. Cooling constants are higher in live dragonflies than in dead ones, a difference that is accentuated at high ambient temperatures. High cooling constants at high temperatures probably result from increased rates of circulation. Most fliers, and some large perchers, are able to elevate their body temperature by @'wing-whirring.@' In some species the rate of heat production apparently varies in response to ambient temperature. The body temperature at which flight begins after warm-up is positively correlated with body weight, probably because wing loading increases with increasing body size. The maximum voluntarily tolerated temperature and the threshold of heat torpor of several species were determined. Both parameters are correlated with habitat. The minimum temperature at which flight is possible is positively correlated with body weight and is slightly higher in tropical dragonflies than in temperate zone species. Body temperature is probably more variable relative to air temperature in tropical than in temperate zone species. The ability of dragonflies to maintain a relatively constant body temperature is determined primarily by climate, body size, and behavior.
10.2307/2937042|Simulation modeling was used to explore the importance of resource competition to algal community structure of shallow coastal lagoons. We used modified Michaelis-Menten equations to describe the kinetics of nitrogen uptake for three co-occurring algal functional forms: phytoplankton, foliose algae, and cyanobacterial mats. Uptake rates and subsequent growth were modified by differential internal storage and recycling of nitrogen from decaying tissues. Analysis of model behavior indicated that a two-step model uncoupling nutrient uptake and growth was capable of producing a wide variety of dynamic behavior not possible with simple uptake kinetics. A nutrient storage term allowed for time lags between nutrient input and growth, and resulted in periodic changes in dominance between foliose algae and mats. Analyses of the most important parameters of the model, nutrient uptake and growth rates, indicate that our model can be adapted for algal communities composed of different dominant algal forms. The model demonstrates a dynamic response in both magnitude and timing of algal growth when the parameter values for nutrient uptake are manipulated. From this we hypothesize that the dynamic relationships between the algal groups are similar in different communities, but that the parameter values in the Michaelis-Menten equations for each algal form must be tailored to each system. We validated the model with three field experiments from the published literature. First, we compared model predictions to results of a replicate microcosm experiment modeling lagoonal communities treated with 20 nitrogen loading rates spanning three orders of magnitude. The model adequately predicted the dynamics of the simplified microcosm community within the range of loading rates where nitrogen was limiting (0-0.270 mg@?L^-^1@?d^-^1). As predicted by the model and confirmed with the experiments, microalgal mats dominated when nitrogen addition was low, but were replace by foliose algae at higher N loading levels (0.068-0.090 mg@?L^-^1@?d^-^1). Phytoplankton never dominated the community. Second, we compared the observed and predicted communities for a competition experiment excluding two of the algal forms. The magnitude of the phytoplankton biomass in each treatment is accurately predicted but predictions of timing are less accurate. The final biomass of foliose algae and mats is predicted accurately. Finally, we applied the model to an experiment using algal communities of San Francisco Bay. Results matched predictions when the kinetic parameters for foliose algae were changed to those for Ulva, the green macroalga from San Francisco Bay. These results support the hypothesis that nitrogen storage is important in understanding growth and nutrient utilization patterns of foliose algae and benthic cyanobacterial mats and the subsequent impacts on community structure.
23047559|Pollination mode is an important reproductive characteristic, often assumed to play a considerable role in plant species invasiveness. We asked (1) whether alien and native species differed in the frequency of pollination modes (insect pollination, self-pollination, wind pollination, water pollination), (2) whether the pollination modes affected the invasion success of two groups of aliens, differing in their residence time in Central Europe: archaeophytes (introduced before 1500) and neophytes (introduced more recently), and (3) whether there were differences in the diversity of insect pollinators of native species, and of alien species at different stages of invasion and with different residence time. The analysis was carried out using 2817 species occurring in the Czech Republic (1596 native and 1221 alien, the latter comprising 331 archaeophytes and 890 neophytes). Data were analyzed using generalized linear models. The alien flora introduced to Central Europe contained a higher proportion of insect-pollinated species than did the Central European native flora and linked to a higher diversity of pollinators per species. However, the frequency of pollination modes in the introduced alien flora gradually changed during the process of naturalization, becoming more similar to that of native species, and eventually, the naturalized species that became invasive did not differ in their frequency of pollination modes from native species. The frequency of self-pollination increased from casual through naturalized to invasive alien species. This suggests a remarkable role for pollination mode in successful invasions; indeed, self-pollination tends to support spread of neophytes more than any other mode of pollination. The range of habitats occupied by plants of different invasion status affected the diversity of insect pollinator species. In contrast, regional commonness of plant species only affected the number of pollinator functional groups. In native species and archaeophytes, there was a steeper accumulation of pollinator species with increasing habitat range than in neophytes. This indicates that groups of plants that have been provided with longer time to sample a wider range of habitats than recently arriving alien species have formed more associations with native pollinator species occurring in those habitats.
10.2307/2937053|Food webs from the Lerderderg River, an intermittent stream in Victoria, Australia, were compiled with the aim of examining changes in food web structure in a highly variable habitat. Emphasis was placed on a high degree of taxonomic precision. Spatial and temporal variation in the food webs was assessed by partitioning the study area into three sites, located @?1.5 km apart along the river. Sites differed in overall stream width and the length of the low streamflow period during summer. Three separate webs for each site were compiled for four different times of the year. Relatively little spatial variation in community structure was observed. In contrast, temporal variation was considerable, with species composition and the number of species in the community changing considerably over the year. The number of species increased dramatically as the period of constant streamflow lengthened. Detritivores dominated the community, both in terms of species and individual numbers. The proportion of predators in the community increased slightly by the end of the year, suggesting that recolonization of the community by predators lags behind that of detritivores. The increase in the number of predator species also resulted in an increase in the mean food chain length through the year. Patterns observed in the food webs tended to fall within the range of values reported from several previous studies, suggesting that underlying constraints may structure certain aspects of food webs. However, the constancy of certain food web statistics was attributable either to methodological decisions made during compilation, or to an inherent property of the statistic itself. The potential sensitivity of several food web statistics to the methodology used to compile a food web render between-web comparisons difficult due to the confounding effects of methodology. This suggests that comparisons between food webs should be restricted to webs derived from similar habitats using a comparable methodology.
10.2307/2937269|I studied the spring wildflower community of mesic deciduous forests in piedmont North Carolina to determine (a) the extent to which fecundity is pollination-limited in the community, (b) the importance of competition for pollination in affecting seed-set, and (c) the characteristics of plants and their floral visitors that most contribute to full pollination. Although inadequate pollination seems likely in the community, supplemental hand-pollination significantly improved fecundity in just 3 of the 12 species I examined. Pollination-limited reproductive success was evident only in a distinctive subset of the community, species pollinated primarily by queen bumble bees. The majority of wildflower species are pollinated by flies and solitary bees. Measurements of visitation rates and pollinator effectiveness on these plants confirmed that they are usually adequately pollinated in spite of a short blooming season, considerable overlap in flowering times, extensive pollinator sharing by concurrently blooming species, and inclement weather that frequently interrupts insect activity. Many of the flies and solitary bees are inconstant foragers, yet competition for pollination among wildflower species through differential pollinator attraction or interspecific pollinator movements usually does not significantly decrease the seed-set of plants with shared visitors. Competition may act with other causes of insufficient pollination, however, as a selective force to maintain a characteristic set of floral biology traits within the community, including autogamy and self-compatibility, extended receptivity, and pollination by a variety of visitor types. That these floral traits contribute significantly to the successful pollination of vernal herbs was demonstrated by observations of visitor behavior, plant caging experiments that excluded visitors or restricted their access to selected flowers, and measurements of floral lifetimes and seed-set for individual plants. These traits are effective regardless of the source of pollination-limited fecundity, and it is the prevalence of such traits, rather than floral specialization or character displacement, that distinguishes the forest spring wildflower community from other communities with potentially inadequate pollinator service.
10.2307/2937088|The objective of this study was to examine the effects of preemption on rates of competitive displacement and on competitive outcomes for two Typha species (T. latifolia, TL, and T. domingensis, TD) growing along gradients of water depth. Evidence from several experiments indicated that the relative competitive abilities of the two species were size dependent. When TL and TD competed as small seedlings, TD was generally favored while TL was the better competitor when the plants were larger before beginning to compete. Because of this effect, initial density was determined to influence strongly the early outcome of competition. When seeds were sown at high densities, TD gained an early advantage; at lower densities TL was the better competitor. At very low densities, such as when the species competed as clones, TL was very much the better competitor. In the absence of preemption, the results showed that differences in germination, seedling growth, and competitive ability act to create an initial segregation of species at the waterline where establishment occurs. TL is upslope and TD downslope initially, but as the species spread downslope, TL progresses faster because of its greater capacity for vegetative spread, and the result is a widespread overlap along the gradient. Studies of the rate of competitive displacement between established plants yielded an estimate of slightly <6 yr required for complete segregation of two species starting from maximum overlap. Preemption had a strong effect on early growth and distribution of the species. After the initial effects of temporal disadvantage, delayed plants were able to recover under certain circumstances. Both species recovered better in shallow water than in deep water, and, in general, TL recovered better than did TD. Experiments on spatial preemption found that the species moved towards the expected segregation of TL upslope and TD downslope regardless of the initial conditions. This process of recovery was somewhat slower for established stands of adults than for seedlings. Comparison of aerial photographs of natural populations of TL and TD in PAR Pond (South Carolina) in 1980 with distributions in 1984 also suggests that recovery from even large-scale spatial preemption can occur over only a few years time. These results suggest that extreme temporal advantage by either species can lead to extinction of the other species and that the magnitude of the effect depends upon the initial density of seedlings. If both species survive the initial phase of competition and the habitat remains undisturbed, subsequent vegetation spread and competitive displacement can over-come the initial effects of spatial and temporal preemption, resulting in a predictable zonation.
3100012|We developed PAPPUS, a trajectory model for wind dispersal of plant diaspores under field conditions. The model considers the effects of topography, turbulence (including thermal updrafts), and different weather conditions on the dispersibility of diaspores by wind. In the model, the plant species are characterized by the initial release height and the falling velocity of their diaspores. The common problems in modeling turbulence, which limit the applicability of existing models in predicting long-distance dispersal, are avoided by measuring the high-frequency fluctuations of the wind vector and using these data to simulate the course of the wind vector in the model. Using PAPPUS, we simulated dispersal distance spectra and compared them with those observed during field experiments executed in open habitats. Within a broad range of landscapes and under different weather conditions, the results of the model represent the observed spectra reasonably well. Additionally, we compared the observed dispersal distance spectra with the predictions of an existing plume and trajectory model, respectively. PAPPUS was the only model capable of predicting the proportion of diaspores dispersed over long distances; the existing models were unable to predict that proportion. This is particularly true for sunny weather conditions with thermal turbulence and updrafts, because these conditions may result in a high proportion of long-distance dispersal, even if the horizontal wind speed is low. In contrast, windy or stormy weather may be of much smaller importance for long-distance dispersal than is commonly assumed, especially for non-tree species with $V_{term}<1.5\;m/s$. Horizontal wind speed was not correlated with the proportion of diaspores dispersing >100 m, whereas the frequency of updrafts was. Furthermore, the effects of landscape topography on dispersal distances were examined in simulations using PAPPUS. Differences in elevation and slope may affect the dispersal distance spectra considerably. The superior performance of PAPPUS in predicting long-distance dispersal is mainly due to the new method of incorporating turbulence (especially thermal updrafts) and the consideration of topographic effects. Because other wind dispersal models applied to diaspore dispersal thus far do not consider thermal updrafts or topography, they may considerably underestimate the dispersibility of plant diaspores by wind.
41739381|Organic carbon is important in regulating ecosystem function, and its source and abundance may be altered by urbanization. We investigated shifts in organic carbon quantity and quality associated with urbanization and ecosystem restoration, and its potential effects on denitrification at the riparian-stream interface. Field measurements of streamwater chemistry, organic carbon characterization, and laboratory-based denitrification experiments were completed at two forested, two restored, and two unrestored urban streams at the Baltimore Long-Term Ecological Research site, Maryland, USA. Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and nitrate loads increased with runoff according to a power-law function that varied across sites. Stable isotopes and molar C:N ratios suggested that stream particulate organic matter (POM) was a mixture of periphyton, leaves, and grass that varied across site types.Stable-isotope signatures and lipid biomarker analyses of sediments showed that terrestrial organic carbon sources in streams varied as a result of riparian vegetation. Laboratory experiments indicated that organic carbon amendments significantly increased rates of denitrification (35.1  9.4 ng N[g dry sediment]h; mean  SE) more than nitrate amendments (10.4  4.0 ng N[g dry sediment]h) across streamflow conditions and sites. Denitrification experiments with naturally occurring carbon sources showed that denitrification was significantly higher with grass clippings from home lawns (1244  331 ng Ng dry sedimenth), and overall unrestored urban sites showed significantly higher denitrification rates than restored and forest sites. We found that urbanization influences organic carbon sources and quality in streams, which can have substantial downstream impacts on ecosystem services such as denitrification.
23596909|The mode and tempo of forest compositional change during periods of rapid climate change, including the potential for the fire regime to produce nonlinear relationships between climate and vegetation, is a long-standing theme of forest ecological research. In the old conifer forests of the coastal Pacific Northwest, fire disturbances are sufficiently rare that their relation to climate and their ecological effects are poorly understood. We used a 14700-year high-resolution sediment record from Yahoo Lake on the Olympic Peninsula, Washington, USA, to examine vegetation (landscape vegetation from pollen and local vegetation from macrofossils) and fire (landscape fire from total charcoal and local fire from charcoal peaks) in conjunction with independent records of climate. We hypothesized that the successional stage of the local forest will exhibit alternate stable states over a range of fire activity, that species turnover will increase abruptly above a certain level of fire activity and that both responses would be more gradual at the landscape scale than the local scale. Supporting these hypotheses, at the local scale, we found strong evidence for alternate stable states of late vs. early successional communities and inertia of species turnover to changing fire activity. At the landscape scale, vegetation responded more gradually to changing fire activity. From 14700 to 7000 years ago, high landscape vegetation turnover occurred along with high landscape fire activity, especially during the warm summers of the early Holocene. In several instances, local species turned over completely following fire events but several centuries after climate change. In contrast, during the last 7000 years, the local forest composition was dominated by late-successional species with little species turnover, despite periods of moderate fire activity. We suggest that the relatively minor climate fluctuations of the past 7000 years were not sufficient to cause large-scale species turnover after fire. The Yahoo Lake fire and vegetation record of the early Holocene provides a model for dramatic ecosystem change following an anticipated shift to warmer summer temperatures.
10.2307/3100095| The structure and dynamics of natural communities result from the interplay of abiotic and biotic factors. We used manipulative field experiments to determine the relative roles of abiotic conditions and biotic interactions in structuring deep-sea (2500 m depth) communities along environmental gradients around hydrothermal vents of the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean (East Pacific Rise, at 950 N). We tested (1) whether predation by crabs and fishes affects the recruitment of benthic species and subsequent community structure and (2) whether the effects of predation vary along the steep gradients of temperature, oxygen, sulfide, and metal concentrations near vents. Recruitment substrates (basalt cubic blocks, roughly 10 cm on a side), both uncaged and caged to exclude predators (crabs, fishes, whelks, and octopi), were deployed along a decreasing vent fluid-flux gradient. The exclusion of predators for 8 mo increased the abundance of small mobile gastropods and amphipod crustaceans but decreased the abundance of sessile invertebrates, including juvenile vestimentiferan worms, tubiculous polychaetes, and mussels. Effects of predation were strongest nearest to hydrothermal vents, where abiotic environmental conditions were most extreme but productivity and the overall abundances of benthic invertebrates and mobile predators were the greatest. Additional 5-mo experiments conducted at three different locations showed similar trends at all sites, indicating that these effects of predation on benthic community structure are repeatable. Stomach-content analyses of the most abundant predators found at vents indicated that the zoarcid fish (Thermarces cerberus) primarily feeds on the vent snail Cyathermia naticoides, the limpet Lepetodrilus elevatus, and the amphipod crustacean Ventiella sulfuris, the very species that showed the greatest increase following predator exclusion. In contrast, brachyuran (Bythograea thermydron) and galatheid (Munidopsis subsquamosa) crab stomachs did not contain small mobile grazers, and crabs presented with arrays of the most common vent invertebrate species preferred mussels and vestimentiferans over limpets. Our results indicate that predation by large mobile predators influences the structure of hydrothermal vent communities, directly by reducing the abundance of gastropod prey species, and indirectly by reducing gastropod grazing and by bulldozing of recruits of sessile invertebrates. 
10.2307/2937244|Pinus contorta Dougl. (lodgepole pine) is the most important seral tree species in the Canadian Rocky Mountains, forming a complex mosaic of even- and several-aged forests of fire origin over a wide range of elevations and habitats. East of the Continental Divide in Alberta it is the most abundant tree of montane and lower subalpine forests, due to extensive and frequent wildfires before 1910. Sixty-three mature, undisturbed P. contorta forest stands were surveyed for physiognomy, vascular floristic composition, species cover, age structure, and physical site properties. A direct gradient ordination of stands was constructed using elevation corrected to 53@?N as the first axis, and Synthetic Moisture Index derived from Moisture Indicator Values of species as the second axis. Stands were classified using minimum-variance cluster analysis with species cover data, error-sum-of-squares association analysis with species presence-absence data, and dominance analysis with species based on the leading species of shrub and herb-dwarf shrub strata. Vascular species richness per stand averaged 38. Species occurring in a significantly higher percentage of stands in one national park than the other were more numerous in Banff than Jasper. Most stands were <100 yr old. Prevailing soils were Eluviated Eutric Brunisols and Orthic Eutric Brunisols. Both vascular species and community classification (syntaxonomic) units showed ecologically meaningful distribution and abundance patterns on the ordination. Though based on different criteria, the four classifications were quite similar, permitting synthesis of five PINUS CONTORTA community types (CT's), these forming an ecocline from low-elevation dry to high-elevation moist: PINUS CONTORTA/SHEPHERDIA CANADENSIS/ARCTOSTAPHY-LOS UVA-URSI (PICO/SCHA/ARUV), P. CONTORTA/S.CANADENSIS/ELYMUS INNOVATUS (PICO/SHCA/ELIN), P. CONTORTA/ALNUS CRISPA/LINNAEA BOREALIS (PICO/ALCR/LIBO), P. CONTORTA/MENZIESIA GLABEL-LA/VACCINIUM SCOPARIUM (PICO/MEGL/VASC), P. CONTORTA/LEDUM GROENLANDICUM/V. SCOPARIUM (PICO/LEGR/VASC). Stands of PICO/SHCA/ARUV are mostly seral to Pseudotsuga menziesii, of PICO/SHCA/ELIN to either Picea glauca or Pseudotsuga menziesii, of PICO/ALCR/LIBO to Picea glauca-Abies lasiocarpa, of PICO/MEGL/VASC to Picea engelmannii-Abies lasiocarpa, and of PICO/LEGR/VASC mostly to Picea mariana. Pinus contorta may be climax on dry, oligotrophic sites above the cold elevational limit of Pseudotsuga. A stable species structure (dominance hierarchy) develops in subordinate vascular strata of seral Pinus contorta forests long before the pine is replaced by climax tree species. The P. contorta forests of Banff and Jasper are compared with those of adjoining regions in Alberta, British Columbia, and Montana.
10.2307/2937095|The first paleoecological analysis of a complete sedimentary record spanning the period from the late Pleistocene to the present from lowland Panama, documents changes in lowland vegetation communities through major climatic change and the onset of human disturbance. Past sympatry is found among presently allopatric species, suggesting that tropical forest communities are not species-stable through time. Late Pleistocene floras at Lake La Yeguada (elevation 650 m), Panama, had high relative abundance of montane forest elements, e.g., Quercus and Magnolia, existing some 900 m below their present range, suggesting a climatic cooling of @?5@?C below present. This descent of montane forest taxa onto lowland hilltops denied the ground to postulated lowland rain forest refugia. The late Pleistocene (14 350-11 050 yr BP) was not uniformly cool and was interrupted by brief phases of near present-day warming. The onset of the Holocene was abrupt, taking <100 yr, and was almost coincidental with the start of human forest disturbance. Changes in climate at La Yeguada were found to be largely synchronous with those documented at Lake Valencia, Venezuela, but no fine-scale climatic synchrony was apparent with South American or European sites, and significant departures from the predictions of published climatic circulation models are found.
10.2307/1942550|Laboratory and field experiments were conducted on the island of Hawaii from 1977-1980 in an effort to determine the impact of avian malaria on the forest birds. At 16 study sites from sea level to tree line in mesic and xeric habitat, birds were captured and bled to determine the host and altitudinal distribution of blood parasites. In the laboratory, six bird species were challenged with malarial parasites to measure host susceptibility. Distributions, activity cycles, and transmission potentials of malarial parasite vectors were also analyzed. One species of Plasmodium was present from sea level to tree line, concentrated in the mid-elevational ranges in the ecotonal area where vectors and native birds had the greatest overlap. Native forest birds were: (a) more susceptible to malaria than were introduced species; (b) most likely to have malaria during the nonbreeding, wet season; (c) found ranging lower in xeric than in mesic forests; and (d) found to have a lower prevalence of malaria in xeric forests. Temporal as well as elevational differences in prevalence and parasitemia levels of wild birds were apparent throughout the annual cycle, a result of differing host and parasite responses to biotic and abiotic factors. Avian malaria probably did not reach epizootic proportions on Hawaii until after @?1920. However, since that time it has had a negative impact on the population dynamics of the native forest birds and is today a major limiting factor, restricting both abundance and distribution of these species on the island. In response, a number of native bird species have developed immunogenetic and behavioral responses that reduce the impact of the parasite on host populations.
20787440|The repeated occurrence of abnormal amphibians in nature points to ecological imbalance, yet identifying causes of these abnormalities has proved complex. Multiple studies have linked amphibian abnormalities to chemically contaminated areas, but inference about causal mechanisms is lacking. Here we use a high incidence of abnormalities in Alaskan wood frogs to strengthen inference about the mechanism for these abnormalities. We suggest that limb abnormalities are caused by a combination of multiple stressors. Specifically, toxicants lead to increased predation, resulting in more injuries to developing limbs and subsequent developmental malformations. We evaluated a variety of putative causes of frog abnormalities at 21 wetlands on the Kenai National Wildlife Refuge, south-central Alaska, USA, between 2004 and 2006. Variables investigated were organic and inorganic contaminants, parasite infection, abundance of predatory invertebrates, UVB, and temperature. Logistic regression and model comparison using the Akaike information criterion (AIC) identified dragonflies and both organic and inorganic contaminants as predictors of the frequency of skeletal abnormalities. We suggest that both predators and contaminants alter ecosystem dynamics to increase the frequency of amphibian abnormalities in contaminated habitat. Future experiments should test the causal mechanisms by which toxicants and predators may interact to cause amphibian limb abnormalities.
10.2307/2963523|The ecological and evolutionary ramifications of habitat selection for the population dynamics of Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea) were examined by evaluating specific factors affecting choice of habitat by the warblers, and testing the predictions of habitat selection theories proposed by Fretwell and Lucas (1970). Seven study plots were established along the Tennessee River in west-central Tennessee between 1987 and 1989. Each plot consisted of 80 nest boxes in a 20 column  4 row grid, with one row placed along shoreline over standing water (flooded habitat), and three parallel rows placed inland at 35-m intervals (dry habitat). Flooded and dry habitats differed in vegetative structure and species composition, and flooded habitat contained more natural nest sites, higher arthropod abundances, and fewer species competing for nest sites than did dry habitats. Warblers settled preferentially in flooded habitat, where breeding density was higher than in dry habitat. When predation effects were excluded, birds in flooded habitat fledged more young per nest and made more nesting attempts than did birds in dry areas. With predation included, no significant differences in breeding success in the two habitats were found. Distribution of breeding warblers across wet and dry habitats followed the "ideal dominance" model of Fretwell and Lucas (1970), with older and larger males excluding younger and smaller ones from flooded areas. Territoriality in Prothonotary Warblers apparently serves to limit breeding density and to maximize breeding success within preferred habitat.
27646029|We evaluated the effects of marine iguanas, sally lightfoot crabs, and fish on rocky-shore sessile organisms at two sites at Santa Cruz Island, Galpagos Islands, Ecuador, for 35 years during and after the 19971998 El Nio, using exclusion cages to separate the effects. Plots exposed to natural grazing were dominated either by encrusting algae or by red algal turf and articulated corallines. Algae fluctuated in response to El Nio in the following way. During an early phase, crustose Gymnogongrus and/or red algal turf were dominant. In the heart of El Nio, grazers had limited effects on algal cover but influenced algal sizes substantially. Most algae (particularly edible forms) were scarce or declined, although warm-water ephemeral species (notably Giffordia mitchelliae) flourished, increasing diversity and overgrowing crusts. Iguana mortalities were high, and crab densities low. When normal conditions returned, warm-water ephemerals declined, crab densities rose, and grazers had significant but site-specific effects on algae. At one site, any combination of grazers diminished most erect species, reducing diversity and restoring dominance of competitively inferior grazer-resistant crusts. At a second site, only the combined effect of all grazers had this effect. Laboratory experiments confirmed that crabs could control erect algae and promote crustose forms, and crustose Gymnogongrus developed into an erect form in the absence of crabs. Differences between sites and large-scale temporal changes associated with El Nio indicate that tropical shores are not all as constant in time and space as previously suggested. Mobile grazers did affect algal communities, but over the period of our observations far greater effects were attributable to intersite differences and temporal shifts in oceanographic conditions. El Nio events reduce nutrients, intensify wave action, and raise sea levels, affecting food availability for intertidal herbivores and their influence on benthic algae. Thus, the dramatic transformations of communities during El Nio presage the impacts of global climate change.
10.2307/1942557|A stratigraphic study was undertaken to determine the historic role of watershed and sea-level changes on the development of Fresh Pond Marsh on Long Island's north shore. Pollen analytic, radiometric, and macrofossil techniques were aimed at differentiating among marsh, watershed, and regional changes over the last 1000 yr. A study of surface pollen distribution was conducted to determine pollen source and tidal influences on pollen deposition and to evaluate comparability of fossil pollen records from various intertidal environments. Regional and local inputs along a transect that included several tidal regimes were identified. Pollen counts from these different environments were comparable and proved useful for marsh reconstructions. Pollen analyses from the coastal marsh and a nearby lake distinguished changes in upland vegetation and cultural patterns within the watershed from those occurring regionally. Records of local pollen, foraminifera, macrofossils, rhizomes, and lithology indicated that the history of Fresh Pond Marsh has included periods of both tidal and freshwater conditions. Close dating control provided by ^2^1^0Pb measurements and historically documented changes in indicator pollen taxa identified marsh responses to external influences, including dynamics of a baymouth bar, land clearing, agriculture, mosquito ditching, and sea-level fluctuations. Results showed that (1) tidal marsh sections can provide sensitive records of both upland and marsh vegetation histories, (2) pollen and macrofossil records can be closely linked to tide-gauge records and are responsive to short-term changes in sea level with a high degree of temporal resolution, and (3) upland influences can play an important role in determining the course of plant succession in the intertidal environment. Pollen provides the most sensitive record of marsh and upland development, as long as pollen source is accounted for.
10.2307/1942516|In adjacent areas of broadleaf evergreen forest, deciduous dipterocarp forest, and agricultural land in northeastern Thailand, >4,000 individuals of 105 species of reptiles and amphibians were systematically collected. The position of capture of each individual was recorded in terms of a complex microhabitat code. The 3 environments differ substantially in pattern of human disturbance, in vegetation structure, and in range and predictability of temperature and total evaporation, the evergreen forest having the most buffered climate near the ground. Of the 3 environments studied, the evergreen forest has the most diverse and distinct herpetofauna, and the largest percentage of autochthonous species. The evergreen forest community has more southern or tropical affinities, while the deciduous forest community has more northern affinities. Analysis of the use of microhabitat categories by coexisting species reveals significant differences, even among the most similar sets of species. Differences in species richness among the three communities are not explained by differences in microhabitat diversity, mean niche breadth, or mean niche overlap. However, an ith nearest neighbor analysis of the dispersion of niche centers in resource space reveals closer packing and larger and more distinct guilds in the evergreen forest: the environment richest in species and the most predictable in climate. Both a graphical treatment and an analysis of sets of species grouped a priori according to their general natural history confirm the existence of larger and significantly tighter guilds in the evergreen forest. It is suggested that unpredictable environments tend to prevent the formation of distinct guilds, while the greater species richness of more predictable environments may be a function of guild formation.
27646143|Although hybridization is a relatively widespread phenomenon in marine ecosystems, the ecological importance of hybrids is poorly understood. As crosses between two distinct genotypes, hybrids might express fitness characteristics similar to either parent species, or they might produce unique phenotypic attributes that make them more or less fit than either parent species. We identified a potential hybrid zone among soft corals in a back-reef community on Guam, where the broadcast-spawning species Sinularia maxima and S. polydactyla co-occur. Morphological and chemical traits confirmed the intermediate and unique status of the putative hybrid. Laboratory cross-fertilization experiments using S. maxima and S. polydactyla gametes demonstrated that barriers to hybridization are absent and that the laboratory-reared hybrids developed specific characteristics identified in adult hybrid field populations. Changes in the populations of each parent species and the hybrid were monitored over a decade. While populations of the parent species declined significantly, the hybrid population doubled in percent cover over this period. We assessed responses to abiotic (sedimentation) and biotic (competition and predation) factors to determine whether the two parent species or the hybrids exhibited greater fitness. While sedimentation alone could not explain the decline in field populations of the parent species, sediment effects exact a significant cost to these soft corals over narrow spatial scales. Competition between the parent and hybrid soft corals explains some of the changes in the distribution and abundance of these species through time. The extracts of S. polydactyla had no effect against congeners, whereas those of S. maxima and the hybrid caused significant tissue necrosis. Field predation was significantly lower on the hybrid than on either parent species. Laboratory feeding assays demonstrated that the extracts of the hybrid were significantly more deterrent than either S. maxima or S. polydactyla. Comparisons of the bioactive metabolites from the parent species, a hybrid compound, and a semi-purified mixture indicated that the hybrid is more deterrent than either of the parent species. Our results indicate that the hybrid Sinularia maxima  polydactyla exhibits greater fitness than the parent species and suggests that hybrid vigor may have implications for coral reef resilience.
10.2307/1942651|The foraging ecology and trophic dynamics of the striped swamp snake, Regina alleni, were studied from 1974-1977 in a south Florida water hyacinth community. The mean standing crop of R. alleni was 30.79 kg (1289 individuals)/ha of water hyacinths. This biomass estimate is greater than that known for any snake species and is related to (1) the high primary productivity of water hyacinths; (2) the trophic positions, diets, and concomitant abundances of the snake's prey; (3) the availability of alternate habitats for exploitation; and (4) release from certain competitive and predatory pressures. Snake density was lowest in summer, increased in fall and winter, then decreased in spring. Changes in density apparently represent seasonal movements of snakes between the hyacinth habitat and the surrounding marshes, in response to fluctuations in water level, prey availability, and predator pressure. R. alleni showed dramatic seasonal and ontogenetic shifts in food habits. Young R. alleni (120-200 mm snout-vent length [SVL]) fed primarily on libellulid odonate naiads but switched to seasonally abundant palaemonid shrimp and astacid crayfish. Between 200 and 300 mm SVL a major dietary shift occurred and crayfish gradually replaced odonates and shrimp. This change occurs throughout the range of the species and also involves a reorganization of snake feeding behavior to accommodate prey of different shapes. The ecological and energetic consequences of this dietary shift are interpreted in terms of the divergent life histories and growth patterns of the predator and its prey. Within the specialized trophic niche of R. alleni, food availability and predator size largely determined the types and sizes of prey consumed, but interacted with the thermal regime, energetic requirements, and foraging efficiencies of individual snakes to determine the rate of food intake. In most seasons juvenile R. alleni consumed more but smaller prey than adults, and the mean percent of snake body mass eaten per day was higher for adults. However, because juveniles fed on odanate naiads that were higher in protein but lower in ash content than the decapods taken by adults, the energetic intake per gram snake body mass was generally higher in juveniles. The predatory impact of R. alleni may be a significant factor limiting the growth of both the snake and its prey populations. During fall, when measured rates of food intake were highest, adult R. alleni consumed @?9.6% of the adult crayfish population. In contrast, juveniles accounted for removal of @?90.7% of the odonate population in the same time period. When given an unlimited food supply in the laboratory, the daily energetic intake of juveniles was more than two times that of maximum field estimates.
10.2307/2937313|This paper tests the proposition that a small set of plant, animal, and abiotic processes structure ecosystems across scales in time and space. Earlier studies have suggested that these key structuring processes establish a small number of dominant temporal frequencies that entrain other processes. These frequencies often differ from each other by at least an order of magnitude. If true, ecosystems therefore will have a few dominant frequencies that are endogenously driven and that are discontinuously distributed. This paper additionally tests the proposition that these structuring processes should also generate a discontinuous distribution of spatial structures coupled with the discontinuous frequencies. If that is the case, animals living in specific landscapes should demonstrate the existence of this lumpy architecture by showing gaps in the distribution of their sizes. This proved to be the case for birds and mammals of the boreal region forest and the short-grass prairie. Alternative hypotheses to explain the body mass clumps include architectural, developmental, historical, and trophic causes. These were all tested by comparing body-mass clump distributions (1) in ecosystems having different spatial structures (forest, grassland, and marine pelagic) and (2) in different animal groups having different body plans (birds and mammals) or feeding habits (carnivore, omnivore, and herbivore). The only hypothesis that could not be rejected is that the body-mass clumps are entrained by discontinuous hierarchical structures and textures of the landscape. There is evidence for at least eight distinct habitat @'quanta,@' each defined by a distinct texture at a specific range of scales. These eight quanta together cover tens of centimetres to hundreds of kilometres in space and at least months to millennia in time. There is a striking similarity, but not identity, between the clump structure of prairie and boreal animals. This indicates that many processes that form qualitative habitat structure are common to both landscapes or ecosystems, but a few are landscape specific, particularly over larger scales. That conclusion is extended to all terrestrial ecosystems by an analysis of the body-mass clump structure of all North American birds. In contrast, there are striking differences in clump structure between landscapes and @'waterscapes,@' indicating that fundamentally different processes shape structure in terrestrial and open ocean systems. The discontinuous body-mass structure provides a bioassay of discontinuous ecosystem structure. Mammalian carnivores, omnivores, and herbivores all show the same number of body-mass clumps, and the gaps in these distributions occur at the same body masses. Mammals and birds show the same number of body-mass clumps, but the mass gaps for mammals occur at larger sizes than those for birds in such a way that the log-transformed body-mass gaps for mammals are correlated linearly with those for birds. Hence there is a simple cross-calibration between the mammal and bird bioassays. I compiled and analyzed published data on home ranges in order to convert body masses into an absolute linear measure of geometric structures in the landscape. A new and general equation was developed relating home-range size to body mass, and was tested by reanalyzing published data for mammalian carnivores, omnivores, and herbivores and for birds. I conclude: (1) Birds and mammals of all trophic levels utilize resources in their foraging areas in the same way by measuring the spatial grain of habitat patches with a resolution defined as a function of their size (i.e., the animal's step length or minimum unit of measurement). The step length is a morphological function of the size of animals and is not significantly affected by trophic status or taxonomy of the groups considered. That explains why all trophic levels and both birds and mammals show the same qualitative body-mass clump structure. (2) Home-range data can convert the body-mass data to a quantitative estimate of texture, i.e., of fractal dimension of the landscape. The landscape forms a hierarchy that contains breaks in object sizes, object proximities, and textures at particular scales. Animals also demonstrate a hierarchy of decisions whose target suddenly shifts at specific scales in space and time. The interaction between these two hierarchies produces the discontinuous body-mass clump structure. The breaks in geometry in the landscape occur because structuring processes exert their influence over defined ranges of scale. The temporal and architectural structure of habitat quanta are in general determined by three classes of processes, each dominating over three different ranges of scale. Vegetative processes that determine plant growth, plant form, and soil structure dominate the formation of texture at fine microscales of centimetres to tens of metres in space and days to decades in time. At the other, macroscale extreme, slow geomorphological processes dominate the formation of a topographic and edaphic structure at large scales of hundreds to thousands of kilometres and centuries to millennia. At the mesoscales in between, contagious disturbance processes such as fire, insect outbreak, plant disease, and water flow dominate the formation of patterns over spatial scales of hundreds of metres to hundreds of kilometres. In addition, the direct impacts of grazing by large herbivores and of human activities, and the indirect effects of large predators and animal disease, further transform spatial patterns over these meso-scales. These processes operate on time scales of years to decades, making them critically important in determining whether present local, regional, and global human influences will trigger a transition in vegetation types, and, if so, how rapidly. The paper provides a direction for the development of programs to evaluate, monitor, and predict ecosystem and community changes across scales. The necessary research elements include (1) models that incorporate a few scale-dependent structuring processes to allow cross-scale analysis; (2) comparative studies of different disturbed and undisturbed landscapes using the animal body-mass bioassay technique to identify critical scales of ecosystem geometry; (3) analysis of remote imagery to identify spatial discontinuities and regions of scale invariance; and (4) behavioral studies of the hierarchy of animal decisions to identify species groups vulnerable to predicted (using models) or observed (using remote imagery) changes in vegetation geometry.
4539046| We analyzed and modeled the demography of Eryngium cuneifolium, an herbaceous species endemic to the fire-prone Florida scrub, using 10 annual censuses (1990-1999) of 11 populations at Archbold Biological Station. Nearly every aspect of the demography of this plant is affected by time since fire. Year, time since fire, life history stage, and plant age affected survival, growth, and fecundity of E. cuneifolium, but time since fire and life history stage had the most consistent effects. Survival, flowering stem production, and early seedling survival were highest in recently burned sites. Long-term survival, growth, and fecundity were highest for yearling cohorts recruiting recently after fire, with the largest contrast between plants recruiting two years postfire and those recruiting more than a decade postfire. Prior (historical) stage also affected individual plant fates. For example, plants with prior stasis or regression in stage subsequently died in greater numbers than plants with prior advancement in stage. Historical analyses did not suggest any cost associated with the initiation of flowering. We used a matrix selection approach to explicitly model Eryngium cuneifolium population viability in relation to fire. This simulation strategy included preserving observed data and variances within projection matrices formed for individual combinations of population and year. We built 54 of these matrices, each with six stages (seed bank, yearlings, vegetative plants, and three reproductive stages). Each of these matrices also represented a specific time since fire. In building matrices, we minimized the use of pooled data while retaining specific matrices whenever possible. In this way, we preserved both the correlation structure within individual matrices (populations, years) and protected patterns among matrices across the time-since-fire gradient. To deal with less-detailed data on recruitment processes, we evaluated 13 fertility and seed bank scenarios that bracketed a range of outcomes. All scenarios were similar in showing the positive effects of fire on the demography of E. cuneifolium. The scenario with high seed bank survival (0.5) and low germination rates (0-0.005) was the best predictor of observed postfire years of peak aboveground population size (~8 yr) and aboveground population disappearance (30-34 yr), and also did a good job of reproducing observed population trajectories. Finite rates of increase () were >1 only during the first decade postfire but then declined beyond a decade postfire. Although prior (historical) stage affected most individual demographic parameters, it did not significantly influence finite rates of increase. Elasticities were highest for stasis and germination from the seed bank. Elasticities for survival increased with time since fire, while growth and fertility elasticities decreased. In historical models (those with information on stage from the second-to-last year), the elasticities for stasis were higher and the elasticities for growth lower, compared to models without this history. Bootstrapping suggested small standard errors for several types of model output. Most matrix elements were positively correlated, suggesting that favorable conditions affect many life history stages similarly, and that simulations using element selection would provide a less conservative risk assessment than the matrix selection technique used. We used a stochastic simulation program to simulate changing demography with time since fire, with various fire-return intervals, and for various initial population sizes. We obtained estimates of extinction risk and probability of population decline. Even populations as large as thousands of individuals will become extinct in the absence of fire. Fire-return intervals of 15 yr or less are necessary for E. cuneifolium persistence at individual sites. Fires at intervals longer than 20 yr create substantial extinction risks, and intervals longer than 12 yr produce declining populations. Cycles of widely divergent, alternating short and long fire-return intervals caused slightly higher chances of extinction compared to regular fire-return intervals. Although shrub regrowth is implicated in the decreased viability of E. cuneifolium populations under regimes of infrequent fire, aboveground fuel increases are often too slow to allow frequent burning in Florida rosemary scrub. If E. cuneifolium's, rosemary scrub habitat burns less often than every 20 yr, local extinctions and metapopulation dynamics may be the norm. Other rosemary scrub specialists (e.g., Hypericum cumulicola) thrive with less frequent fires and persist in smaller gaps among the regrowing shrubs. Therefore, we suggest that temporal variation in fire-return intervals and spatial variation in fire intensity and patchiness (pyrodiversity) will allow coexistence of all Florida scrub species and hedge against local extinctions of specialists like E. cuneifolium. 
10.2307/2963468|We have studied the net and gross metabolism of Tomales Bay, a temperate climate estuary in northern California. Tomales Bay has proved to be heterotrophic, implying that the bay oxidizes a subsidy of organic carbon from outside the system, in excess of inorganic nutrients supplied to it from outside and in addition to material cycling within it. Net organic oxidation releases dissolved inorganic nutrients, and the system exports these dissolved inorganic products. Dissolved inorganic phosphorus is exported to the ocean via mixing and constitutes the most direct record of net ecosystem production (NEP). Excess dissolved inorganic nitrogen is lost to denitrification. Excess dissolved inorganic carbon largely results in alkalinity elevation and hydrographic export of alkalinity due to sulfate reduction. The negative NEP of this system results in little release of CO
10.2307/2657192|We present a new multivariate technique for testing the significance of individual terms in a multifactorial analysis-of-variance model for multispecies response variables. The technique will allow researchers to base analyses on measures of association (distance measures) that are ecologically relevant. In addition, unlike other distance-based hypothesis-testing techniques, this method allows tests of significance of interaction terms in a linear model. The technique uses the existing method of redundancy analysis (RDA) but allows the analysis to be based on Bray-Curtis or other ecologically meaningful measures through the use of principal coordinate analysis (PCoA). Steps in the procedure include: (1) calculating a matrix of distances among replicates using a distance measure of choice (e.g., Bray-Curtis); (2) determining the principal coordinates (including a correction for negative eigenvalues, if necessary), which preserve these distances; (3) creating a matrix of dummy variables corresponding to the design of the experiment (i.e., individual terms in a linear model); (4) analyzing the relationship between the principal coordinates (species data) and the dummy variables (model) using RDA; and (5) implementing a test by permutation for particular statistics corresponding to the particular terms in the model. This method has certain advantages not shared by other multivariate testing procedures. We demonstrate the use of this technique with experimental ecological data from intertidal assemblages and show how the presence of significant multivariate interactions can be interpreted. It is our view that distance-based RDA will be extremely useful to ecologists measuring multispecies responses to structured multifactorial experimental designs.
10.2307/2937307|Efficiencies of food use, growth rates, and consumption rates were measured for larvae of eight tropical insect species, reared upon normal and fertilized Heliconia species (Zingiberales: Heliconiaceae) and Musa sp. (Zingiberales: Musaceae) in Costa Rica. Cephaloleia consanguinea and Chelobasis perplexa (Coleptera: Chrysomelidae, Hispinae) feed only on Heliconia. Caligo memnon and Opsiphanes tamarindi (Lepidoptera: Brassolidae) are oligophagous, with known hosts in two families of Zingiberales. Sibine apicalis, Sibine sp., and Metraga sp. (Lepidoptera: Limacodidae) and Megalopyge sp. (Lepidoptera: Megalopygidae) are polyphagous, with dicot and monocot hosts. Foliar nitrogen content of natural Heliconia imbricata (@? = 1.76%) was lower than that of H. latispatha (@? = 3.01%) and Musa sp. (@? = .30%). The oligophagous brassolids generally had lower growth rates, lower efficiencies of food use, and lower nitrogen accumulation rates on H. imbricata than on Musa sp. The hispines had lower relative consumption and growth rates than any of the lepidopterans examined on any host or treatment. Growth rates and nitrogen accumulation rates for the hispine species were not affected by host plant fertilization. Efficiencies of nitrogen use declined with increasing foliar nitrogen content for the hispines. Several parameters of food use efficiency were correlated with larval feeding specialization. The specialized hispines and oligophagous brassolids had higher efficiencies of food assimilation and nitrogen use on H. imbricata than did the polyphagous limacodids and megalopygid. Other efficiency indices, such as net growth efficiency, were not correlated with feeding specialization. The hispine Ch. perplexa has one of the longest larval developmental times known for a nondiapausing chrysomelid (@?200 d). Its slow growth is correlated with a low metabolic rate, which we interpret as a physiological adaptation for starvation resistance. Larvae feed only on rolled Heliconia leaves, which are produced infrequently by host plants, and long fasts are a predictable feature of development. Ch. perplexa's eight larval instars are about equal in duration, and closely match the duration of a rolled leaf's suitability as food for these larvae. After a rolled leaf unfurls, the larvae must either wait for another on the same plant, or search haphazardly for one on nearby plants. The feeding of Ce. consanguinea larvae is apparently moisture limited in this tropical rain forest, and these larvae also have a high resistance to starvation. The oligophagous brassolids have become pests of banana, which is introduced into the Americas. These species increase growth rates with increased nitrogen content of host tissue. They are infrequent on H. imbricata, which has few chemical defenses against herbivores. Thus, the low nitrogen content of H. imbricata may protect it from some herbivory.
10.2307/1942527|Disturbance-perturbation, dispersal-reaction, and contemporaneous disequilibrium are similar theories used to explain the maintenance of species diversity in communities. These theories explicitly predict that in patches, on certain time-space scales, there should be substantial shifts in the order of species dominance. There is good evidence that these theories may explain species coexistence in terrestrial and marine systems of sessile organisms. We have tested this set of theories in a mobile pelagic system by examining the order of dominance of copepod species in samples separated in time and space, collected from @?30 min to 16 yr apart, and from hundreds of metres to thousands of kilometres apart. We could not detect significant changes among the samples in rank order or in percent similarity of species abundance on any time scale, or on any space scale up to @?800 km, either when all 175 species or when only the 30 most abundant were considered. There was small-scale, mesoscale, seasonal, and interannual heterogeneity in physical properties during the time we made our measurements. Although the theories are satisfactory explanations of diversity maintenance in sessile systems, our results fail to validate them in our mobile pelagic system. Because there were episodes of significant physical variability and because of the long-term species equilibrium and constancy of dominance, we believe our highly diverse community to be resilient and robust, rather than fragile. The regulatory forces are strong and almost certainly biological, rather than physical, but we cannot identify them.
10.2307/1942228|The circulation of phosphorus in 200-liter aquaria, continuously supplied with tap water, was analyzed by means of analytical and tracer methods. This open-system design ultimately resulted in a steady-state system whereby the influx of phosphorus to various biological compartments was equaled by a corresponding outflow. This model of phosphorus circulation is believed to apply to small lakes with extensive littoral vegetation during summer stratification, but contrasts with models proposed from other tracer studies on such lakes. The other models are considered to be feasible, but unlikely and based on incorrect analyses of data. Previous estimates of the rate of phosphorus circulation based on tracer analyses are reanalyzed and appear to be of the correct magnitude. The 200-liter system developed two communities of attached and planktonic organisms, with the former rapidly removing a large percentage of the phosphorus from the latter. With this removal any direct relationship between the phosphorus concentration of the open water and the influx concentration was obscured. A major means by which phosphorus was removed from the open water was shown to be trapping of particles by the community associated with the sides of the aquaria. The rate of such removal varied widely, depending on the extent of @'littoral@' growth and the nature of the particle. These results suggest that a multicompartment analysis of nutrient circulation is significantly more realistic than a simplistic assumption of homogeneity. Considering succession to be the total change in physical and biological conditions over prolonged time, this open-system design developed from a one-community, few-species system into a two-community, several-species system. The rate of nutrient circulation greatly increased with time and developed into a steady state, not an equilibrium system which depended on a continual phosphorus influx to maintain the concentrations and circulation rates.
10.2307/2937240|Breeding bird communities in spruce-fir forests of the southern Appalachian mountains are considerably less diverse than those of similar northern forests. Censuses also show more widespread coexistence of congeneric and confamilial species in the north. Long-distance migrants dominate the northern forests while resident species dominate in the south. In a 4-yr study of these bird communities, I used observations of foraging strategies and resource partitioning to test hypotheses that might explain this probematic latitudinal gradient in species diversity. I conducted quantitative studies of foraging behavior of arboreal insectivorous birds at sites with very similar plant communities in the Great Smoky Mountains of North Carolina and in northwestern Maine. Six species that breed in both north and south had consistently more generalized foraging in the south, as measured by spatial distribution of foraging, variety of techniques used, directionality in probing and flights, and patchiness of habitat use. These north-south differences in foraging behavior result in part from greater behavioral diversity of each individual. Five exclusively northern species showed greater foraging generalization at the northern site than their sympatric congeners that breed in the south as well. The 11 species in the north occupied a smaller total foraging niche volume than the 6 species in the south. Each species overlapped more broadly with others in the north, and maximum overlap was greater. The southern avifauna is a nearly totally included subset of the northern. Northern diversity is produced by the addition of very similar (congeneric), widely overlapping generalists. This @'stacking@' of generalists differs considerably from tropical patterns of community diversification. Ecological, biogeographic, and evolutionary hypotheses explaining tropical diversity and island diversity are inadequate to account for the reversal of this latitudinal gradient and the species-packing characteristics of northern diversification. Populations in the depauperate south apparently released from competition with exclusively northern congeners did not show stronger generalization than populations of species that are the sole representatives of their families north and south, contrary to expectation. This is better explained by a common response, predicted by foraging optimization theory, to lower food levels in the south than by ecological release. Seasonal compression of productivity in northern spruce-fir forests, suggested by geophysical and climatological data, produces stronger pulses of food production than in the south, as shown by arthropod sampling. Compressed productivity and winter limitation of both northern residents and migrants probably produce higher food levels relative to consumer biomass in the north. Seasonal diversity is probably enhanced in northern forests by strong, predictable resource oscillations that are difficult for consumers to track Cyclic relaxation of limits to ecological similarity through seasonally abundant resources creates a higher diversity peak than under weaker seasonality. In the more seasonally constant south, residents are probably better able to track resources, and dominance by these groups is enhanced. Predictable seasonal peaks of production have probably promoted the evolution of opportunistic migrants and reduced their competition with winter-limited residents. I discuss this hypothesis in light of a theory proposing that variable conditions may often lead to greater diversity than more stable conditions. This study and others indicate the importance of seasonal species and temporal complexity in natural communities.
10.2307/2937154|In social insects, colonies as well as individuals have evolving life histories. Identification of the life history tactics of a social insect requires data on colony attributes and their development. To this end a full range of fire ant (Solenopsis invicta) colony sizes was sampled and censused on seven dates throughout 1 yr. Data included: mound volume; the number, dry masses, and fat contents of sexual and worker adults and immatures; stratified nest temperatures; worker distribution within the nest throughout the year; duration of the pupal stages; and respiration rates. Analysis showed: 1. Colonies reached their annual maximum population size in midwinter and their maximum biomass in spring. During the spring sexual production period they declined to a midsummer minimum. Calculations showed that the magnitude of this decline increased with colony size. During January to July, worker mortality exceeded natality, causing colony decline, while from July to December, natality predominated, causing growth. 2. Mound volume was closely related to the total mass of ants in the colony, and varied with season paralleling the mass of ants. 3. The mean size and variability of workers, and the percent major workers, increased with colony size and changed over the year. 4. The fat content (percent fat) of workers increased with worker size and colony size. Worker percent fat was lowest in summer after sexual production, climbed immediately to the annual maximum and then declined gradually through winter and spring. 5. Although sexual male and female pupae were close in mean dry mass (2.55 mg and 3.10 mg, respectively), males gained only 6% during adult maturation while females gained 290%. Females gained fat more rapidly than lean tissue causing their percent fat to increase from 31% to 49%. Mean mass of male and female sexual adults did not change with colony size. 6. The cost of worker maintenance declined from nearly 100% of total colony cost in winter to 46% in late spring when brood production peaked. 7. Production rates peaked in spring, with colonies investing 50% of their daily production in sexuals. This peak production was not sustained through the summer, and was probably fueled by stored worker fat. Worker production dominated in the latter part of the summer. All measures of production rate as well as total annual production increased with colony size, but most did so less rapidly than colony size, resulting in a declining efficiency of production and a declining natality rate. 8. The percent of annual production invested in sexuals increased sharply in colonies of between 20 000 and 50 000 workers, then remained at @?33% for the remainder of colony growth, showing that the transition from the ergonomic to the reproductive stages is sharp, and that colonies must grow in order to produce more sexuals. 9. Many quantitative colony attributes were related to one another by differential growth, and can thus be seen as isometric or allometric measures. Rules of relative growth may thus constrain the possible combinations of attributes and their evolution. The methods of morphometric size and shape analysis are discussed as tools for understanding suites of colony attributes, and comparing them among species. 10. The sociometric/sociogenic method is discussed as a way to compile, analyze and compare data on social insect colony attributes and their growth and development.
10.2307/1942285|Tree-ring samples (increment cores) from living trees at 61 different forest sites were analyzed by using skeleton plots and several computer routines to determine the effect of climatic influences upon the growth of black oak, white oak, and shortleaf pine. All cores were cross-dated within each species and between species by skeleton plots, and a specific calendar year was assigned to each annual ring. Black oak was easier to cross-date than white oak or pine. Computer-calculated negative mean sensitivity values verified cross-dating by skeleton plots. Comparisons of site chronologies derived from both the skeleton plots and the index routine for each species showed that a number of narrow rings consistently occurred in certain years throughout the Central Mississippi Valley. Within any species the degree of similarity in narrow rings decreased as the distance between sites increased. Major changes in soil types also influenced the number of narrow rings; thus ecological differences may occur within the same species as well as between species. Information about the past history of the stand and its present ecology may be obtained from the increment cores and the ring-width listing routine. Bivariate distribution tables indicated that for each species annual ring widths correlated highest with certain periods of precipitation. Analyses of variance permitted the evaluation of relative similarities and differences of tree-growth response and indicated past stand disturbances as well as the effects of climatic and edaphic influences. Pine has greater tree-to-tree variability on clay soils than on cherty soils. Oaks have more tree-to-tree variability on cherty soils. Analyses of variance also indicated that black oak generally responded more to climatic influences than to other factors of the environment.
10.2307/2937176|The salt marsh snail Cerithidea californica is first intermediate host to a diverse guild of larval trematode parasites. In Bolinas Lagoon, in central California, the site of this study, at least 15 species of trematodes infect snail populations. This study investigated patterns of interspecific association and interaction among members of this parasite guild. Seven to 19 host subpopulations were sampled annually at each of two sites in the lagoon from 1981 to 1988. Mixed-species infections constituted only 2.5% of the 5025 infections examined in the study. A Monte Carlo simulation procedure demonstrated that the numbers of such infections were often less than would be expected by chance, especially when the overall prevalence of infection was high. Patterns of association between particular pairs of species depended on whether the species' life histories include redial or only sporocyst larvae. Species that develop as rediae were predominantly negatively associated with other redial species and with most species that develop only as sporocysts. There was weak evidence of positive interspecific association between a few redial and sporocyst-only species, while members of other such pairs were distributed independently. Associations between sporocyst-only species were either weakly positive or neutral. Snails carrying known infections were marked, released, and recaptured at both study sites. During their exposure in the field, some initial infections were invaded by another parasite species that often excluded the first parasite. The vulnerability of a parasite species to invasion and replacement by another differed among the tested species. Infections of the largest redial species, Parorchis acanthus, were especially resistant to replacement, while those of the smallest redial species, Euhaplorchis californiensis, were the most frequently excluded. Four other species were invaded or replaced at intermediate rates. The two largest redial species, P. acanthus and Himasthla rhigedana, were responsible for >90% of the invasions or exclusions. Direct observations showed that the rediae of these species prey on the larval stages of other species, as do the rediae of Echinoparyphium sp. This direct form of interspecific antagonism is probably the primary mechanism by which such species exclude others from host snails, as has been widely demonstrated in similar freshwater snail-trematode systems. While hierarchical, negative interactions prevent the coexistence of species at the level of the individual host, the mark-recapture study showed that rates of exclusion are low for most subordinate species, with the exception of Euhaplorchis californiensis. At the level of the host subpopulation, the assemblage of larval trematodes is diverse, and its composition is temporally and spatially variable. There is no trend toward dominance of the assemblage by large redial species as the level of infection rises within aging cohorts or subpopulations of hosts. These patterns of guild structure within host cohorts and subpopulations are consistent with the hypothesis that recruitment processes rather than interspecific interactions primarily determine the composition and relative abundance of species at this regional level. Several characteristics of snail-trematode systems that may promote regional coexistence of such a large number of potentially interacting parasite species are the isolated and subdivided nature of the host resource, the aggregated distributions of larval stages, and the differential exploitation of different-sized hosts. Many features of this system are consistent with Price's (1980) non-equilibrial view of parasite communities.
10.2307/2937309|A guild of ground-foraging, insectivorous birds which seasonally occupy montane temperate forests was investigated. By examining the roles of interspecific competition and specific habitat selection, I have dissected the factors controlling the distribution patterns of the guild members along extensive elevational gradients. The guild was composed of Hylocichla mustelina (Wood Thrush), Catharus fuscescens (Veery), C. guttatus (Hermit thrush), C. ustulatus (Swainson's Thrush), and C. minimus (Gray-cheeked Thrush). The five thrush species are sympatric on high mountains in the northeastern United States, but as one proceeds southward down the Appalachian Mountain chain, the species drop out one at a time. Anecdotal information indicated that the species showed elevational amptitude expansion as members of the guild dropped out with decreasing latitude. As a consequence of the opportunity for ecological release in southern latitudes, the thrush guild was ideally suited for testing the role of competition in determining distributional limits of the species when sympatric. I studied the behavioral interactions and habitat selection of the five species in sympatry on high mountains in the northeastern United States. The species have distinct distributions along these elevational gradients, but large spatial overlaps between adjacent species were observed. To test for significant differences in habitat selection, the breeding territories of these species were quantified by measuring 55 structural habitat variables. Using stepwise discriminant function analysis, I detected statistically significant differences in the species' breeding habitats. By employing a subset of 9 of the initial 55 variables, over 77% of the Northeastern habitat quantifications were assigned to the correct species group. Additional information extracted from the structural niche analysis indicated the habitat niche breadth of each species and the degree of habitat overlap between adjacent species, and provided insight into the limiting similarity allowed between these coexisting species. Song playback was used to test the contribution of behavioral interactions to the observed distribution patterns. All species showed greater response to conspecific song. The results indicated that over interspecific behavioral interactions contributed little or nothing to the observed distributional and specific habitat selection patterns of these species. To test the contribution of interspecific competition to the habitat selection patterns detected on Northeastern mountains, a subset of the five-member guild was studied on Southeastern mountains. In the Smoky Mountain range only H. mustrelina and C. fuscescens breed. By employing identical quantification techniques, I tested for expansion by these two species into habitat types not occupied when sympatric with the other three species. Evidence of extensive ecological release was obtained, implying a strong role for interspecific competition in Northeastern mountains. Thus, my results further implicate interspecific competition as an integral force contributing to the organization of temperate bird communities.
10.2307/1942406|Lichen species richness and abundance are reduced by approximately 90% in lichen communities near a zinc smelter at Lehigh Water Gap in comparison with the lichen communities of Delaware Water Gap. The principal cause of the impoverished lichen flora in the Lehigh Water Gap area is probably high concentrations of zinc. Of the non-pollution and pollution factors considered, only abnormal soil concentrations of zinc and cadmium extend beyond the limits of the lichen impoverishment zone. Because Zn is present in concentrations generally 100 times higher than that of Cd and because Cd is experimentally shown to be no more toxic to lichens than is Zn, it is probable that Zn is the more important, detrimental factor to lichens in the Palmerton area. Near the smelters, Zn, Cd and sulfur dioxide are all present in sufficiently high concentrations to be detrimental to lichen growth and survival. However, at the perimeter of the lichen-impoverished zone, only Zn is present in high enough concentrations to be phytotoxic. Although microclimatic alteration in forested areas near Palmerton may be sufficiently great to be a stress for a few lichen species that are adapted to shaded conditions, no microclimatic differences were demonstrable between Delaware and Lehigh Water Gaps for open habitats where most lichen species normally occur in this area. Variations in such factors as lichen geographical range, climate, substrate composition and abundance, and fire history are probably of negligible importance in explaining the reduction in lichen numbers or abundance in Lehigh Water Gap.
10.2307/1942422|The relationship between spatial preference and diet in four species of the genus Notropis (Pisces: Cyprinidae) was investigated in Roxbury Creek, a small stream in southern Wisconsin. Characteristic spatial distributions for each species were determined from frequency of catch in unbaited minnow traps set at varying heights and locations in the pools of the stream. Data for the year 1966-67 indicate that two species, Notropis atherinoides and N. spilopterus are common in midwater. Notropis dorsalis is most frequently found near the bottom and shows a strong preference for the upstream edge of pools Notropis stramineus is also found most often near the bottom but within the pools themselves. The spatial distributions of aquatic invertebrates, the major prey of Notropis in the pools of Roxbury Creek, were also investigated. Data gathered from drift and bottom samples taken in eight sampling periods during 1970-71 suggest a separation between the relatively sedentary bottom fauna, composed of oligochaetes, isopods, several genera of chironomids, tipulids, and trichopterans; and the drift fauna, composed of copepods, chironomids of the subfamily Orthocladiinae, ephemeropterans, and terrestrial anthropods. Certain genera, including the ubiquitous Gammarus were found commonly in both drift and benthic samples. Indices of similarity between pool benthos and drift ranged between 7% and 59%. Data on food habits of Notropis gathered from stomach content analysis of fishes collected over the same period indicate that 73% of the invertebrate genera present are utilized by Notropis species in Roxbury Creek. Considerable overlap exists in the invertebrate genera chosen by the four species (69%-84%), and strong overall correlations between species are found in the importance of various orders of aquatic invertebrates in the diet. Differences in food habits relate principally to differences in space utilization. Midwater species tend to feed on drifting chironomids, copepods, terrestrials, and other animals found in the water column. Bottom-dwelling fishes feed on benthic genera of chironomids, tipulids, oligochaetes, and other organisms found commonly in pool substrates. It is concluded that spatial rather than taxonomic considerations are the chief determinants of prey selection in these four species, and that this pattern of resource subdivision acts to reduce competition in sympatric, syntopic populations of these fishes. Data from other Wisconsin Streams, from aquarium observations, and from literature review suggest that multispecific assemblages of mutually responsive species like the ones in Roxbury Creek are common in Notropis.
10.2307/2937089|This study examines the characteristics of ripe fruits of 111 species (35 families, 62 genera) of vertebrate-dispersed plants (with fleshy fruits) native to the Iberian Peninsula. The sample included 58% of the species, 87% of the genera, and 95% of the families of fleshy-fruit-producing plants occurring in the area. Species were characterized by 23 variables related to the design of the fruit (size, mass of seeds and pulp, number of seeds, seed size) and the organic and inorganic chemical constituents of pulp (water, lipids, protein, fiber, non-structural carbohydrate, ash, Ca, Na, Mg, K, P, Fe, Cu, Zn, Mn). Qualitative variables related to geographical distribution at two different scales (northern temperate vs. southern mediterranean; mediterranean lowlands vs. highlands), growth form, fruit color, and display type of the infructescence, were used to categorize species and perform comparisons of fruit characteristics. Factor analysis (FA) was used to examine trait covariation and identify major independent trends of variation in fruit structure and pulp composition. Factor scores of species were used to examine patterns related to taxonomic affiliation and ecological characteristics of species. With increasing fruit size, pulp mass increased more slowly than seed mass, and thus the pulp/seed mass ratio decreased. The ratio of pulp to seed was greatest in small-seeded fruits. Trees tended to produce the greatest amount of pulp per seed, and herbs the smallest amount. In the species with the smallest seeds the biomass of the pulp exceeded that of the seeds. Major trends of interspecific variation in fruit design included: (1) fruit size (54.5% of variance); (2) inverse relationship between number of seeds/fruit with mass of single seeds and mass of pulp allocated to each seed (23.1%); (3) variation in pulp/seed mass ratio (16.6%). Fruit size, seed size, and pulp/seed mass ratio tended to vary independently of each other. There was significant heterogeneity in factor source of species differing in geographical distribution, growth form, fruit color, and display type. Interspecific patterns in fruit design were strongly influenced by phylogeny, although no predictable relationship existed between fruit structure and taxonomic affiliation. Water was the dominant constituent of fresh pulp (range = 19.3-91.1%, mean = 70.8%). On a dry mass basis, nonstructural carbohydrate (NSC) represented 25.9-93.5% (mean = 67.0%), fiber 2.6-52.0% (16.3%), lipids 0.2-58.8% (6.9%), and protein 0.9-27.7% (5.0%). Based on factor analysis, there was a strong negative correlation between NSC and lipids (Factor 1, 46.5% of variance), and a complementary variation of NSC and fiber (Factor 2, 25.5%). Factors 3 (14.8%) and 4 (11.5%) corresponded to variation in protein and water, respectively. No significant heterogeneity in factor scores existed among groups of species based on geographical distribution or type of display. Heterogeneity did exist with regard to fruit color and plant growth form. No predictable relationship existed between phylogeny and pulp organic composition, although taxonomic diversity had some influence on interspecific variability. With the single exception of the joint occurrence of Ca and Mg, the concentration of any mineral element in the pulp of a species was not predictably associated with the amounts of other elements in the pulp. Composition of the inorganic fraction was not significantly related to either geographical distribution of the species of type of fruit display. Species groups based on fruit color or growth form differed significantly in total mineral content. No phylogenetic correlates were apparent in the constitution of the inorganic fraction of fruit pulp. The broadest patterns revealed by this study were of a @'null type@'. The few @'positive@' ones have rather restricted implications as to the overall constitution of fruits, and only one-third of these seem attributable to the selective action of frugivores on fruit traits. The study failed to reveal any overwhelming influence of the disperser/dispersal environment on the characteristics of Iberian fruits taken as a whole, particularly with reference to interspecific variation. Phylogeny, architectural constraints, and species-specific energy and nutrient allocation patterns, seemed most important in explaining observed variation in fruit constitution.
23596751|Stem exclusion and understory reinitiation are commonly described, but poorly understood, stages of forest development. It is assumed that overstory trees exert strong controls on understory herbs and shrubs during the transition from open- to closed-canopy forests, but long-term observations of this process are rare. We use long-term data from 188 plots to explore patterns and correlates of variation in understory richness and abundance 15-45 years after clear-cut logging and burning of two experimental watersheds in western Oregon, USA. We test whether variation in the temporal dynamics of plots can be explained by topoedaphic factors that influence resource availability (insolation and soil moisture), variation in the pace and intensity of overstory development, or characteristics of the vegetation prior to canopy closure. Changes in forest structure were substantial over the study period; canopy cover increased fourfold, stem density by 75%, and bole biomass by two orders of magnitude, although trends were highly variable among individual plots. In contrast, understory richness, foliar cover, and biomass declined only 3040%, driven by loss of early-seral colonists, not residual forest species. Canopy closure occurred earlier on north aspects but declines in understory biomass, reflecting loss of colonizing shrubs (without concomitant increases in forest shrubs), were limited to south aspects. In contrast, variation in effective soil moisture had little influence on the pace of decline. Temporal trends were highly asynchronous among plots: nearly 50% of plots experienced some form of decline, but >35% showed no discernible trend. Declines were more likely in plots with greater tree influence before or at peak overstory development, but also in plots with greater understory development prior to canopy closure. Quantile regression models indicated weak relationships between understory biomass and overstory structure at most points in time. Our long-term data support a model of understory dynamics in which characteristics of the pre-closure vegetation are as important as overstory structure in determining the timing and nature of decline. Long-term studies are critical for elucidating patterns and processes that cannot be inferred from short-term experiments or space-for-time substitutions.
10.2307/2963474|With a view toward understanding variation in species composition among different forest communities, I examined species-specific growth and mortality of juvenile trees (2.3-78 mm diameter at 10 cm above the ground) at three contrasting sites. Two sites differing in soil mineralogy and elevation (schist/gneiss uplands vs. calcareous bedrock valley) were situated in northwestern Connecticut, USA. To examine variation over a more extensive geographic scale, I located the third site in central-western Michigan, USA. Among the three sites, the deciduous species (American beech, white ash, and sugar maple) showed little intraspecific variation in models of relative radial growth rate as a function of light availability. Strikingly, a substantial component of the variation in radial growth at the Michigan site could be explained by sapling growth models originally calibrated for the Connecticut sites. In contrast to the deciduous species, the evergreen species (white pine and eastern hemlock) exhibited significant intraspecific differences in growth models between the two Connecticut sites. Intraspecific variation in growth models among sites was characterized by significantly different estimates of growth at low light. This result suggests that light and other resources can be simultaneously limiting, and challenges the application of Liebig's law of the minimum to tree sapling growth. For the deciduous species, mortality processes exhibited more variation among the sites than did growth. I found significant site differences in mortality as a function of recent growth for both sugar maple and white ash on the calcareous soils in comparison to the schist/gneiss soils in Connecticut. In general, the mortality functions at the Michigan and the upland Connecticut site were similar, and both differed from the Connecticut calcareous site. Community dynamics at each of the three sites were simulated with a model of forest dynamics called SORTIE, which incorporated observed differences in sapling mortality and growth functions among the sites. Using SORTIE, among-site differences in only juvenile survivorship and growth were sufficient to predict dominant species in the adult canopy, demonstrating the critical importance of sapling stages to community dynamics. If a species performs differently at a particular site, its interactions with other species at the site will also change, potentially contributing to further differences in community species composition. Changes in species' performance in response to different site conditions and the species' subsequent interactions are critical to understanding differences among the dynamics and compositions of these forest communities.
10.2307/1942458|An Annual nitrogen budget is presented for a small steam draining Watershed 10, H. J. Andrews Experimental Forest, Oregon. The role of allochthonous debris in the input, flux, and export of nitrogen is emphasized in the material balance budget. All material entering the stream channel was presumed to enter the water sometime during the year. Material estimates are based on total channel area. The major annual nitrogen input (1974-1975) was subsurface flow (11.06 g/m^2) as dissolved organic nitrogen (10.56 g/m^2) and nitrate (0.50 g/m^2).Biological inputs of nitrogen amounted to 4.19 g/m^2 as direct terrestrial inputs of: litterfall (1.35 g/m^2), lateral movement (1.78 g/m^2), and throughfall (0.30 g/m^2). Nitrogen fixation on fine wood debris contributed an additional 0.76 g/m^2 based on rates from a nearby watershed. Total nitrogen input was 15.25 g/m^2. The nitrogen pool was dominated by large amounts of particulate organic matter. Coarse wood constituted 32% of the nitrogen pool (3.80 g/m^2) and fine wood fractions 18% (2.18 g/m^2). The coarse wood fraction greatly influenced stream morphology. Fine organic particulates constituted an additional 40% of the nitrogen pool (4.77 g/m^2). DON (dissolved organic nitrogen) export (8.38 g/m^2) was less than input, presumably due to biological uptake associated with litter mineralization, sorption, and chemical flocculation. Due to effective retention of particulate inputs by debris dams, biological processing in the particulate nitrogen pool, and uptake and sorption of DON, most particulate organic inputs increased in nitrogen concentration prior to export. Particulate organic nitrogen input (3.13 g/m^2) was greater than export (2.53 g/m^2). Total annual nitrogen output was 11.36 g/m^2, resulting in a gain of 3.89 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1 to the stream. Thus, the stream was not operating on an annual steady state, but on an input-output regime related to the processing of refractory wood debris and resetting by major storms. Although particulate and dissolved nitrogen loss per hectare was small for the 10-ha watershed, these losses passed through or were accumulated in a pool encompassing <1% of the watershed area. This concentration of N in the stream allowed establishment of a separate ecosystem whose processing efficiency and capabilities for nutrient cycling were related to the retention capacity of the channel and nutrient quality of inputs within the reach.
10.2307/1942313|A small watershed in the White Mountains of New Hampshire bearing mesophytic, cool-temperate, broadleaf-deciduous forests was studied. Acer saccharum, Betula lutea, and Fagus grandifolia are dominant, but toward higher elevations Picea rubens and Abies balsamea also occur and indicate the transition toward subalpine climate. The stands are young (following cutting in 1909-17) but contain older trees; stand composition is thought reasonably representative of the climax. For application of the Brookhaven system of forest dimension analysis, 93 sample trees of major species were cut and roots excavated. Mean dimensions of sample trees, and the constants for the system of logarithmic regressions relating volume, surface, mass, and growth to diameter at breast height and other independent variables, show decrease in tree sizes and height/diameter ratios toward higher elevations. Stand characteristics, based on application of the regressions to forest samples, show trends of decrease for the elevation belts from low to high: stem basal area 26.3, 23.7, and 22.0 m^2/ha, weighted mean tree height 16.9, 16.7, and 10.8 m, weighted mean age 124, 95, and 83 yr, stem wood volume 176, 155, and 103 m^3/ha, aboveground biomass (dry matter) 162, 152, and 102 t/ha, estimated volume increment 379, 365, and 223 cm^3/m^2/yr, aboveground net primary productivity (1956-60) 1127, 1041, and 790 g/m^2/yr, and leaf area ratio 6.2, 5.7, and 5.5 m^2/m^2. Biomass (and, presumably, production) of root systems is 18%-21% of that aboveground. Different estimations suggest that a mean climax biomass for the watershed may be around 350 t/ha, aboveground. Net ecosystem production (i.e., addition to the pool of woody biomass in the community) is estimated as 350 g/m^2/yr aboveground and 85 belowground for 1956-60, 238 and 52 g/m^2/yr for 1961-65. Analysis of stem wood volume increments reveals an abrupt and striking (18%) decrease in volume growth and productivity from 1956-60 to 1961-65. The net primary productivity of the former period, with a weighted mean for the watershed of 1110 g/m^2/yr above and below the ground, is thought more nearly normal for the forest. Both drought and effects of increasing air pollution (notably increasing acidity of rainfall) may be responsible for the recent decrease in productivity.
10.2307/2657199|Knowledge of regional-scale patterns of ecological community structure, and of factors that control them, is largely conceptual. Regional- and local-scale factors associated with regional variation in community composition have not been quantified. We analyzed data on woody plant species abundance from 2443 field plots across natural and seminatural forests and woodlands of Oregon to identify and quantify environmental, biotic, and disturbance factors associated with regional gradients of woody species composition; to examine how these factors change with scale (geographic extent) and location; and to characterize and map geographic patterns of species and environmental gradients. Environmental correlates of species gradients, species diversity patterns, and the spatial patterning of woody plant communities varied with geographic extent and location. Total variation explained (TVE) by canonical correspondence analyses (CCAs) was 9-15% at three hierarchical geographic extents: the entire state, two half-states, and five subregions. Our high level of unexplained species variation is typical of vegetation gradient analyses, which has been attributed to landscape effects, stochastic processes, and unpredictable historical events. In addition, we found that TVE in canonical correspondence analysis is confounded by sample size. Large numbers of plots and species, as in our study, are associated with lower TVEs, and we propose a mechanism for this phenomenon. Climate contributed most to TVE (46-60%) at all locations and extents, followed by geology (11-19%), disturbance (6-12%), and topography (4-8%). Seasonal variability and extremes in climate were more important in explaining species gradients than were mean annual climatic conditions. In addition, species gradients were more strongly associated with climatic conditions during the growing season than in winter. The dominant gradient at the state scale was from the lower elevation, moderate, maritime climate along the coast to the higher elevation, drier, continental climate of eastern Oregon. The second canonical axis followed a gradient from the warm, dry, growing seasons of the western interior valleys and eastern Cascade Range to the cooler, wetter mountainous areas. Geologic variables were most strongly correlated with axis 3, and measures of local site and disturbance with axis 4. For most of the state, our findings on the associations of disturbance factors with species gradients were inconclusive due to confounding of land ownership patterns, disturbance histories, and elevation in our sample. Near the coast, where gradients were not confounded, clear-cutting and stand age accounted for only 2 and 1% of TVE, respectively, in partial CCA. Ordinations of our long, regional gradients were influenced more by species presence than by abundance, and few woody species have been totally eliminated from sites by clear-cutting. Within Oregon and for the range of geographic extents we examined, variation in the environmental correlates of species gradients was more strongly associated with geographic location than with geographic extent, although topographic factors explained slightly more variation at smaller geographic extents. The greatest subregional contrast in vegetation character was between eastern and northwestern Oregon, and the Klamath subregion was intermediate. In the drier climate of eastern Oregon, community structure varied at a finer spatial scale, and climatic and topographic moisture were more strongly associated with species gradients than in the moister areas of western Oregon. Topographic effects were weakest and climatic effects strongest near the coast, where climate is moderate. Alpha and gamma diversity were greater in western Oregon, but beta diversity was greater in eastern Oregon and greater for shrubs than for trees. Our findings supported a conceptual model of multiscaled controls on vegetation distribution, and the related notion that local community structure is the result of both regional- and local-scale processes. Despite strong ecological contrasts within the region, we were able to synthesize species-environment relations at the regional level. This suggests that apparent conflicts among local vegetation studies can be explained by real ecological differences among places.
10.2307/1943046|For the past twenty years, it has been recognized that body size is convergent among solitary species of Anolis lizards endemic to different island banks of the Lesser Antilles. Community ecologists have assumed that this @'solitary size@' is an optimal size, yet the basis behind such optimality has not been shown. Our goal in this study was to explore the existence of an energetic basis of an optimal body size in these lizards. A computer model is presented that incorporates quantitative descriptions of lizard metabolism, locomotion, digestion, and visual acuity, and simulates foraging in a sit-and-wait predator. Quantitative estimates of daily foraging energetics are presented, which are then used together with estimates of resting metabolism to simulate growth. An optimal growth strategy is incorporated to determine adult body sizes that maximize lifetime reproductive output. Such optimal body sizes were determined for different prey densities and activity levels, predator life expectancies, and field metabolic rates. Predicted optimal body sizes are close to the observed body sizes of Lesser Antillean anoles, and are relatively insensitive to both levels of prey activity and up to fourfold differences in prey density, while life expectancy and rates of field metabolism may influence predictions. The insensitivity of predicted optimal body size to prey density lends support to the assumption that the solitary size observed among anoles throughout the Lesser Antilles is an optimal body size. Additional findings were made regarding home-range sizes, growth patterns, and visual constraints to foraging performance.
27646154|Ecosystems have a natural resilience to perturbations, where resilience is the magnitude of a disturbance that an ecosystem can resist before changes in structure, function, and services result in a regime shift. The Everglades region of Florida, USA, has been detrimentally impacted by phosphorus (P) enrichment and a regime shift from Cladium (sawgrass) to Typha (cattail) marsh has been described. We examine another facet of the low-nutrient Everglades stability regime, open-water sloughs, to determine if eutrophication leads to similar regime shifts. We analyzed surface water P and soil P as controlling variables that, once a critical threshold is surpassed, alter ecosystem state variables. Nonlinear relationships between P and vegetation were observed along a northern Everglades eutrophication gradient. In addition to the CladiumTypha regime shift, a second independent regime shift, sloughTypha, was identified. Synoptic surveys of 49 sloughs within the boundary between the slough and Typha regime revealed that surface water total phosphorus (TP) and the benthic algal floc layer (BAFL) were the controlling variables, with critical thresholds of 11 g/L and 412 mg/kg, respectively. The slough regime below these thresholds was characterized by calcareous periphyton (BAFL TP = 298 mg P/kg; BAFL calcium = 149 g Ca/kg). Above the TP thresholds, vegetation composition shifted to open-marsh species with significantly higher BAFL TP (700 mg P/kg) and total organic carbon (TOC) (350 g C/kg). A second BAFL TP threshold occurred at 712 mg P/kg, above which Nymphaea dominated and BAFL TP (1034 mg P/kg) and TOC (417 g C/kg) significantly increased. Nymphaea sloughs transitioned to the Typha regime. The boundary reflects the loss of ecosystem resilience due to eutrophication. Both low-nutrient stability regimes (slough and Cladium) lie precariously close to the P critical threshold but differ in how eutrophication is absorbed and resisted. The slough regime transitions rapidly through a series of ecosystem state changes linked to positive feedback loops that affect P dynamics, whereas the Cladium regime does not. An adaptive management strategy has been implemented to address the surface water TP threshold; however, to ensure successful restoration of the Everglades, the BAFL and soil TP thresholds also need to be considered.
10.2307/2657202|Habitat structure may regulate species diversity at local scales, with complex habitats being normally associated with greater species richness than simple ones. We employed a new method of quantifying habitat structure to examine community structure in a stone-dwelling community of mobile macroinvertebrates inhabiting a perennial, upland stream (the Steavenson River) in southeastern Australia. We distinguished between the effects of increasing habitat structure by adding similar physical elements (habitat complexity) from that produced by adding qualitatively different sources of habitat structure (habitat heterogeneity) at spatial scales relevant to the biota. We used a field experiment to ask: (1) Does variation in habitat structure at local scales (i.e., between individual stones) result in variation in species richness (S) and numbers of individuals (N), and if so, are changes in S wrought passively by changes in N, or is there evidence of local regulation of S? (2) Are macroalgae, which are a source of habitat structure for invertebrates, also affected by stone surface structure? (3) What are the effects of habitat structure on faunal composition and body sizes? We used clay bricks as substrata and manipulated three sources of habitat structure in a crossed design: large surface pits and cracks (low density/high density); small pits caused by variation in surface texture (rough/smooth); and the abundance of macroalgae (begun with algae, begun without algae). The bricks were sampled for both fauna and epilithon on days 14 and 28 of colonization, when species richness and densities of individuals were comparable to natural stream stones. Habitat structure altered faunal diversity and abundances, with the majority of common species reaching higher abundances on creviced or rough surfaces. Rough surfaces were additionally associated with shifts in overall faunal composition and markedly smaller body sizes. Each element of habitat structure (large crevices, roughness, and macroalgae) promoted both increased species richness and densities of individuals. Rarefaction indicated that changes in S were disproportionate to changes in N, which suggests that S is regulated by local processes. Overall species richness was highest on day 14 with no difference in S between simple and complex surfaces. By day 28, simple surfaces had lost taxa relative to complex surfaces, suggesting that species richness in this stream community is regulated at a local scale, even though faunal composition changes continually and is contingent upon habitat structure. Habitat structure also affected the epilithon, suggesting that sources of habitat complexity and heterogeneity are interwoven in this system. Furthermore, the epilithon response to surface structure depended on the spatial scale of habitat complexity, with more of the red, filamentous alga Audouinella hermannii being found on rough surfaces than on smooth surfaces, but less on bricks with large crevices than without. These different responses to surface structure at different spatial scales demonstrate the importance of quantifying and manipulating substrate complexity at scales that are comparable with natural surfaces.
27646037|Marine worms are speciose and numerically prominent members of marine communities where they play critical roles in trophic interactions and in affecting biogeochemical cycles. Despite the ecological importance of this group, little is known about their palatability to, and defenses against, consumers. In addition, most studies of prey defenses in marine organisms have focused on overt, sessile species: few studies have investigated more mobile and behaviorally complex species that could potentially be integrating predator deterrents with refuge use and other escape behaviors. To increase our understanding of consequences of defensive traits among mobile marine prey, we surveyed the palatability of 81 species of worms from the Caribbean and warm-temperate western Atlantic. Thirty-seven percent of the species were unpalatable. Worms with differentially exposed body portions commonly defended exposed feeding appendages with chemical or structural deterrents, while palatable and undefended bodies remained sheltered within structural refuges. Unpalatable worms tended to be brightly colored and sedentary, exposed to epibenthic predators, and to occupy hard substrates. Palatable worms tended to be drab, to live in structural refuges from consumers, to be mobile, and to inhabit unconsolidated sediments. Overall, taxonomy (Sabellidae and Terebellidae) and color were the traits most strongly associated with unpalatability. Unpalatable species appeared less constrained by predation and freer to forage for long periods on higher quality surface sediments or on other invertebrates at the sediment surface (thus, potentially influencing the distribution and abundance of other species). In contrast, palatable species appeared more constrained by predation risk. They fed on lower quality subsurface sediments and foraged at times or locations where consumers were less active. These ecological patterns may be generalized to other soft-bodied prey, such as caterpillars, which show similar trends regarding palatability and lifestyle.
10.2307/1942533|Canopy interception data from 105 grassland stands in the Serengeti National Park in Tanzania and the Masai Mara Game Reserve in Kenya were used to evaluate community organization within an ecosystem defined by the annual movements of large herds of nomadic ungulates. Other studies tested hypotheses about factors influencing species composition and diversity of the communities. The herbaceous vegetation was principally C"4 grasses, which commonly contributed over 90% of total abundance. Ninety-nine stands were classified into 17 communities, using a numerical clustering method. Sixteen communities were principally perennial grasses; one was dominated by an annual species. Short grasslands predominated below 700 mm mean annual rainfall and in heavily grazed sites on hilltops at higher-rainfall locations. Much of the savanna understory at intermediate rainfall levels was medium-height Themeda triandra grassland; six variants were recognized by clustering. Tall grasslands dominated by Hyparrhenia filipendula occurred as a savanna understory in locations with >900 mm of annual rainfall. Two ordination axes revealed a shortgrass continuum that graded into a medium-to tallgrass continuum, and an outlying floodplain tall grassland dominated by Echinochloa haploclada. The latter and the short grasslands dominated by Andropogon greenwayi were very different in species composition from the other communities. The first ordination axis was related to grazing intensity, and the second to soil texture. Spatial heterogeneity was an important attribute of the grasslands from the level of local stands to the level of landscape regions. Spatial pattern, rather than point diversity, was the major vegetation property correlated with @a-diversity. Higher @a-diversity was accompanied by low dominance concentration and more clumped species distributions. Individuals of rare species were more aggregated than members of common species. @b-diversity also was a significant feature of the vegetation, leading to pronounced @c-diversity and a variety of different grassland types in local areas. Coenoclines were evident only in more arid locations. @c-diversity was associated with topographic and geological heterogeneity. Animals, soils, the overlying tree canopy in savannas, and fire influence @a-diversity through their contribution to creating spatial pattern. Animals have particularly complicated effects, in addition to defoliating areas. Grazing is a major environmental factor affecting the grasslands, but it is a composite factor interacting in complex ways with other environmental factors.
23047561|Top-down control has been extensively documented in food webs based on living plants, where predator limitation of herbivores can cascade to facilitate plant growth (the green-world hypothesis), particularly in grasslands and aquatic systems. Yet the ecosystem role of predators in detrital food webs is less explored, as is the potential effect of climate warming on detritus-based communities. We here show that predators have a "brown-world" role in decomposer communities via a cascading top-down control on plant growth, based on the results of an experiment that factorially manipulated presence and size of two predator species as well as temperature (warmed vs. unwarmed). The inclusion of predatory beetles significantly decreased abundance of coprophagous beetles and thus the rate of dung decomposition and productivity of plants growing surrounding the dung. Moreover, the magnitude of these decreases differed between predator species and, for dung loss, was temperature dependent. At ambient temperature, the larger predators tended to more strongly influence the dung loss rate than did the smaller predators; when both predators were present, the dung loss rate was higher relative to the treatments with the smaller predators but comparable to those with the larger ones, suggesting an antagonistic effect of predator interaction. However, warming substantially reduced dung decomposition rates and eliminated the effects of predation on dung decomposition. Although warming substantially decreased dung loss rates, warming only modestly reduced primary productivity. Consistent with these results, a second experiment exploring the influence of the two predator species and warming on dung loss over time revealed that predatory beetles significantly decreased the abundance of coprophagous beetles, which was positively correlated with dung loss rates. Moreover, experimental warming decreased the water content of dung and hence the survival of coprophagous beetles. These results confirm that the "brown-world" effect of predator beetles was due to cascading top-down control through coprophagous beetles to nutrient cycling and primary productivity. Our results also highlight potentially counterintuitive effects of climate warming. For example, global warming might significantly decrease animal-mediated decomposition of organic matter and recycling of nutrients in a future warmed world.
10.2307/2657176|Large brown seaweeds dominate coastal hard substrata throughout many of the world's oceans. In coastal North Carolina, USA, this dominance by brown seaweeds is facilitated by omnivorous fishes, which feed both on red and green algae and on herbivorous amphipods that graze brown algae. When fish are removed in the field, brown seaweeds are replaced by red seaweeds, and herbivorous amphipods are more abundant. Using an array of large (4000 L) outdoor mesocosms, we tested three mechanistic hypotheses for this pattern: fish feeding facilitates brown algal dominance (1) by removing red and green algal competitors, (2) by removing amphipods and reducing their feeding on brown seaweeds, or (3) through an interaction of these mechanisms. Our experiments revealed strong impacts of both fish and amphipods, and a key role for the interaction, in structuring this community. When both fish and amphipods were removed (the latter with dilute insecticide), space was rapidly dominated and held for 17 weeks by fast-growing, primarily filamentous green algae. In contrast, when either fish, amphipods, or both were present, green algae were cropped to a sparse turf, and space was more rapidly dominated by larger macroalgae. The impacts of amphipods and fish on late-successional macroalgal assemblages were comparable in magnitude, but different in sign: red seaweeds prevailed in the amphipod-dominated treatment, whereas browns dominated in the presence of fish. Laboratory feeding assays and amphipod densities in the tanks suggested that the significant effects of amphipods were attributable largely, if not exclusively, to the single amphipod species Ampithoe longimana, which fed heavily on brown macroalgae. Our experimental removal of red and green algae failed to enhance cover of brown algae significantly; however, the latter reached substantially lower cover in the grazer-removal treatment, where green algae were very abundant, than in the fish-only treatment, where green algae were sparse. Thus, our results support the third hypothesis: fish-mediated dominance of brown algae involves both suppression of grazing amphipods and removal of algal competitors. Although collective impacts of fish and amphipods on this benthic community were generally comparable in magnitude, impacts normalized to each grazer's aggregate biomass were consistently higher for amphipods than for fish, sometimes by 1-2 orders of magnitude. Thus, the impacts of grazing amphipods (specifically A. longimana) on the benthic community were both strong and disproportionate to their biomass. These experimental results imply that grazing amphipods, which are ubiquitous in marine vegetation but poorly understood ecologically, may play important roles in the organization of benthic communities, particularly where predation pressure is low.
10.2307/1942256|Mechanistic models of the H"2O and energy dynamic interrelationships between a terrestrial amphibian and its environments were developed and applied in a study of the temperature and water relations of the northern leopard frog Rana pipiens Schreber. The models illustrate the relative importance of air temperature, relative humidity, wind speed, absorbed solar and thermal radiation, substrate temperature, and soil H"2O potential on the core temperatures, hydration levels, and rates of hydration level change during desiccation and rehydration for leopard frogs of different size. Leopard frogs' core temperatures are influenced most by ambient air and substrate temperatures, whereas absorbed radiation has a subordinant effect. Evaporative H"2O loss rates are strongly influenced by absorbed radiation and virtually not influenced at all by substrate temperature (relative humidity, air temperature, and wind speed were also shown to be strongly influential on evaporative H"2O loss). Water uptake from wet soils (@j"s"o"i"l > -150 mb) is determined primarily by the properties of the frog, whereas H"2O uptake from relatively drier soils (@j"s"o"i"l < -300 mb) is determined by the conductive properties of the soil. Results of computer simulations suggest that leopard frogs in southern Wisconsin environments should not be found at great distances from standing H"2O or soils with H"2O potentials < -150 mb. Data taken from the literature and viewed in context of the theory of H"2O exchange between an amphibian and soil, suggests that leopard frogs may rarely venture from saturated soils (@j "s"o"i"l = 0). Results of simulations also imply that leopard frogs in most natural environmental circumstances will not generally have core temperatures greatly different from ambient air temperatures; thus, implying that any behavioral thermoregulatory ability would likely be crude. The modeling approach provides an extremely practical technique to study mechanistic interactions of the many environmental variables involved in the temperature and water relations of terrestrial amphibians.
10.2307/2937138|This paper develops mathematical and statistical techniques for measuring the resilience of inherently stochastic ecological systems. To correspond to the deterministic idea of resilience measured by the return time to equilibrium following perturbation, resilience in stochastic systems is defined as the variability in population densities relative to environmentally driven variability in population growth rates. Stochastic resilience defined in this way is calculated from a community matrix describing the average interaction strengths within and among species. The procedure to calculate stochastic resilience is demonstrated on simulated data sets consisting of time series of population densities. The simplicity of the procedure makes it a potential tool for application to a wide range of ecological communities.
10.2307/2937254|Competition between the insectivorous iguanid lizards Sceloporus merriami and Urosaurus ornatus was studied in a density manipulation experiment conducted in the Grapevine Hills of Big Bend National Park, Texas, USA from 1974 through 1977. Resident lizards were individually marked and censused using standard recapture techniques on six experimental plots chosen for similarity in size, habitat, isolation from one another by habitat unsuitable for these lizards, and initial densities of these two species. All S. merriami were removed from two plots, all U. ornatus from two, and two plots functioned as controls. Recaptures of marked individuals provided data on individual growth, age-specific survivorship, size-specific fecundity, and population density. Animals collected near the study plots provided data on size-specific fecundity, individual foraging success, and total prehibernation lipid levels. Observations of marked individuals provided estimates of individual foraging success. Rainfall varied dramatically during the 4 yr of the study; in 1974 and 1976 precipitation was much greater than the 22-yr average, and in 1975 and 1977 precipitation was much less than average. Two methods of estimating arthropod abundance indicated that significantly fewer prey were available to these lizards in the dry years. Individual foraging success, growth rates, body masses, prehibernation lipid levels, and population densities were significantly lower in the control populations of both species in 1975 and 1977 than in 1974 or 1976, indicating that individuals of both species experienced stressful conditions during the dry years. The removal of S. merriami resulted in significant effects on experimental populations of U. ornatus only during 1975 and 1977. The density of U. ornatus on the experimental plots increased significantly after the removal of S. merriami, even though the control populations declined. Individual foraging success, growth rate, prehibernation body mass, and lipid levels were significantly greater in U. ornatus from experimental populations than in those from control populations in the dry years of the study. The two treatments did not differ significantly in the wet years. Experimental populations of S. merriami exhibited significantly higher adult and juvenile survival than did the control populations in 1975. This was the only significant treatment effect demonstrable in experimental populations of S. merriami. Experimental results and data on life history characteristics suggest that these species compete significantly during periods of drought-induced food scarcity but not at other times. The mechanism of this competition is probably exploitative, with the per capita effect of S. merriami on U. ornatus greater than vice versa. Temporal variation in the intensity of competitive interaction between these two species is attributable to variation in food resource abundance, and arthropod abundance in this system was shown to be a function of rainfall. Examination of 22 yr of continuous precipitation data suggests that competition between these species may be frequently absent or undetectable in this system. The results of this study demonstrate that the intensity of interspecific competition can be quite variable in systems such as this and invite caution to the uncritical acceptance of point estimates of the intensity of competitive interaction.
10.2307/1942195|Six continuous-series microecosystems, each containing five cells, were constructed to simulate hydrological factors of estuarine regions. Exchange and retention characteristics were adjusted to closely model the hydrological conditions of Trinity Bay, Texas. The metabolic and structural responses of the microecosystem communities to quantitative and qualitative changes in freshwater input were investigated. Primary production and community respiration in the first three cells of the microecosystems were dependent on both quantity and quality of freshwater input, whereas primary production and community respiration in the saltwater portions (cells 4, 5) of the microecosystems were virtually independent of the quantity and quality of freshwater input. Metabolism of the freshwater portions of the microecosystems was heterotrophic under normal flow conditions and autotrophic under drought conditions. Addition of an industrial effluent to the freshwater inputs resulted in extensive shifts towards metabolic heterotrophy of the more freshwater portions of the microecosystems. Metabolism of the saltwater cells was heterotrophic under all conditions of freshwater input. The upstream communities were adapted to a dependency on allochthonous materials input for production and respiration maintenance. Retarding freshwater input resulted in tying up larger portions of the nutrient pool within the systems in living components. Addition of industrial effluent increased the community maintenance requirements. Retarding freshwater input acted as an environmental stress on the first three cells of the microecosystems. Magnitudes of production and respiration were significantly lower, and zooplankton standing crops and species diversity decreased significantly. Addition of industrial effluent produced similar effects. Decreased freshwater input rate (primary stress) rendered the receiving communities more susceptible to the industrial effluent addition (secondary stress). The organismal composition of the microecosystems was qualitatively similar but quantitatively dissimilar to the organismal composition of Trinity Bay. Because of fundamental similarities in all living systems, the observed responses might be especially representative of those which would occur in Trinity Bay if subjected to similar hydrological alterations.
4539067|We exposed species-rich temperate calcareous grassland to elevated CO
10.2307/1942572|Three small streams located at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory, North Carolina, USA, on an old field watershed, a pine plantation watershed, and a hardwood forest watershed were investigated to determine effects of watershed perturbation on K and Ca dynamics in the stream ecosystems. Data collected included measurements of litterfall inputs, large particulate organic matter and benthic organism standing crops, large particulate organic matter and organism drift, and insect emergence. We used ^8^5Sr and ^1^3^4Cs to estimate detritivore ingestion and elimination rates of Ca and K, respectively. We found that watershed perturbations had altered stream inputs and caused accompanying changes in the stream fauna. Our results indicated that the perturbed streams had less efficient physical processing of allochthonous inputs, but greater biological utilization of inputs. The streams exhibited high resilience to perturbation with complete recovery limited by the recovery rate of allochthonous inputs.
10.2307/2657169|To examine the interspecific reproductive synchrony of Dipterocarpaceae with vertebrate responses to seed availability, we monitored the spatiotemporal distribution and phenology of more than 2367 adult dipterocarp individuals of 54 species from March 1985 to January 1993 in the Gunung Palung National Park, West Kalimantan, Indonesia. Seven vegetational formations were sampled along an altitudinal gradient from peat swamp forest (5 m a.s.l. [above sea level]) across lowlands to upper montane zones (1100 m a.s.l.) that encompassed two upland valley complexes in a 15-km
20787451|The spatial distribution and temporal availability of propagules fundamentally constrain plant community development. This study experimentally tested several hypotheses about the relative roles of wind and water dispersal in colonization and development of riparian communities along rivers. Through controlling the source of propagules (dispersed by wind, water, or both) reaching newly created, bare river margin sites, we isolated the relative roles of dispersal and other factors in plant community development over five years. Replicated treatments were established at 12 sites spanning 400 km along two adjacent rivers in northern Sweden, one fragmented by a series of dams, the other free-flowing. Bare river margins receiving only water-dispersed propagules had significantly higher species richness compared to plots receiving only wind-dispersed propagules during the initial two years of colonization. Species richness increased annually throughout the study along tranquil and turbulent reaches of the free-flowing river but reached an asymptote at comparatively low richness after a single year on the impounded river. Propagule source strongly influenced species richness during the initial establishment along both rivers, with richness being significantly higher in plots receiving water-dispersed seeds. This strong treatment effect continued to be important through time along the regulated river but diminished in importance along the free-flowing river where other factors such as soil moisture, light availability, and exposure of sites to fluvial disturbance overshadowed the influence of dispersal pathway in mediating species richness. This suggests that hydrochory (plant dispersal by water) may be more important for maintenance of diversity in regulated systems where long-distance dispersal is absent or negligible, but that the rich local propagule source along free-flowing rivers supports high species richness. The number of unique species was higher in water-dispersal plots along both the regulated and free-flowing rivers. This result suggests that hydrochory may contribute to temporal variability of sites, may enhance richness over time, and may have an important role in meta-population and meta-community dynamics of plant communities through long-distance (and local) dispersal and chance colonization. Our findings provide experimental evidence that water dispersal of plant propagules influences colonization dynamics and is important for long-term community development in riparian zones.
10.2307/2937255|Picea mariana predominates in even-aged stands of fire origin at the forest-tundra ecotone near Inuvik, Northwest Territories, Canada. Growth rates of P. mariana decrease with increasing latitude and density although growth rates do not change significantly along the ecotone. Field measurements of water relations, when compared with laboratory determinations of leaf water potentials vs. net photosynthesis, suggest no water stress related photosynthetic reduction for mature trees during 1976. Maximum and minimum leaf water potentials for mature trees were -0.6 and -2.1 MPa on 4 August and 1 July, respectively. Winter measurements of water relations also suggest no water stress. In contrast, 1st-yr seedlings demonstrated sensitivity to water stress with high rates of mortality at low levels of water loss. A macro-mesoclimatic gradient of 4@?C was found across the tree line (135-km study transect). Picea mariana seed production and germination are limited by this environmental gradient to @?40 km south of modern forest line. Germination and survivorship are also affected by microenvironments within a well-developed soil hummock terrain. The lower cardinal germination temperature of 15@?C was the determinant of germination timing and success. Seed production estimates suggested little effect on stand reproduction with burn intervals of 100-200 yr. Shorter or longer burn intervals are believed to reduce stand reproduction. Reduced seed longevity, complete stand destruction by wild-fire, and apparent destruction of seed in the soil restrict establishment to 1-8 yr after fire. This may cause local extermination of the species or out-of-equilibrium tree line positions under conditions of deteriorating environment.
43187599|The decay of organic matter in natural ecosystems is controlled by a network of biologically, physically, and chemically driven processes. Decomposing organic matter is often described as a continuum that transforms and degrades over a wide range of rates, but it is difficult to quantify this heterogeneity in models. Most models of carbon degradation consider a network of only a few organic matter states that transform homogeneously at a single rate. These models may fail to capture the range of residence times of carbon in the soil organic matter continuum. Here we assume that organic matter is distributed among a continuous network of states that transform with stochastic, heterogeneous kinetics. We pose and solve an inverse problem in order to identify the rates of carbon exiting the underlying degradation network (exit rates) and apply this approach to plant matter decay throughout North America. This approach provides estimates of carbon retention in the network without knowing the details of underlying state transformations. We find that the exit rates are approximately lognormal, suggesting that carbon flow through a complex degradation network can be described with just a few parameters. These results indicate that the serial and feedback processes in natural degradation networks can be well approximated by a continuum of parallel decay rates.
10.2307/2937299| Seasonal changes in the intertidal distribution, abundance and population dynamics of the epifaunal amphipod Gammarus palustris were studied in salt marshes bordering 2 estuarine rivers flowing into the Chesapeake Bay. The amphipod populations inhabiting the Patuxent River study site showed abundance peaks during the spring and autumn, and major declines in density during the summer and winter. Populations at 2 study sites in the Rhode River showed only 1 peak of abundance during the late spring and early summer which was followed by a decline in density throughout the remainder of the year. In both rivers, the low amphipod densities observed during the winter corresponded with a subtidal migration. Migrations did not account for the low numbers observed at other times and an examination of the life cycle of this species as well as an egg-ratio analysis of the populations indicated that low densities during the summer (Patuxent) or late summer and fall (Rhode) were not due solely to life-cycle events. The tolerance of G. palustris to 3 environmental parameters was tested in the laboratory. These included low-salinity, heat/desiccation and freezing-stress experiments. Comparisons of the results with observed fluctuations of these variables at the study sites demonstrated that only freezing stress would probably cause significant mortality in intertidal populations of this species. Insufficient tolerance to this stress was postulated as the reason for the observed distributional shift to subtidal areas during the winter. Amphipod distribution within the intertidal zone at other times of the year was highly correlated with Spartina density. Substratum preference experiments indicated that this was due to a strong behavioral preference by this species for Spartina culms. Intraspecific and interspecific competition for food were tested by an analysis of 3 reproductive indices: the estimated birth rate as calculated by the egg-ratio method, the average brood size and the average brood size/ovigerous @V. The former 2 indices declined during the early summer as a result of natural adult female mortality and a decreased proportion of ovigerous to nonovigerous @V @V. The average brood size/ovigerous @V did not decline significantly throughout the reproductive period indicating that food limitation did not induce the observed summer decline in amphipod abundance. Intraspecific competition for space was tested in the laboratory by crowding and competitive-displacement experiments. The results indicated that competition for space was not directly responsible for the summer decrease in amphipod density but did influence amphipod distribution when Spartina culms were a limited resource. In this situation, G. palustris was capable of intraspecific displacement and evidence is presented which indicates that adults are able to displace juveniles from the preferred substratum. Interspecific competition was not examined experimentally because most of the associated fauna inhabiting the marsh beds were infaunal species. Laboratory predation experiments showed that 3 species, Fundulus heteroclitus, Rhithropanopeus harrisii and Paleomonetes pugio could potentially regulate G. palustris densities. Furthermore, F. heteroclitus predation decreased significantly with increased Spartina density and was strongly size selective for large amphipods. Rhithropanopeus harrisii and P. pugio predation was not significantly affected by Spartina density when amphipod abundance was low and predation by both species was significant with high amphipod and culm density, similar to that observed at the Rhode River sites. Although adult R. harrisii showed some indication of size selective predation, neither species was strongly size selective for large G. palustris when Spartina culms were dense. Field caging experiments combined with estimates of predator density indicated that Fundulus predation was the primary source of mortality in the Patuxent River population during the summer. The results of caging experiments in the Rhode River were inconclusive but large increases in predator density correlated with major declines in amphipod abundance. Therefore, predation is postulated as the major source of mortality during the summer and fall at the Rhode River sites. Thus, both environmental and biological factors regulate these amphipod populations with the former important during the winter only and the latter important at other times of the year. 
10.2307/1942246|Bumblebees of any one species in Maine forage for pollen and/or nectar from a large variety of morphologically diverse flowers, but individuals have limited foraging repertoires at any one time. Unspecialized individuals were sometimes unsuccessful in extracting nectar and/or pollen from highly rewarding flowers. In any one area with a variety of concurrently blooming plants, the bumblebees had apparent species preferences. Superimposed on the species preferences were individual preferences. Individuals had primary foraging specialties (their majors) and secondary specialities (their minors). Minors were often bridges to new majors. Queens in Maine necessarily have several successive majors during their lifetime since the blooming time of the plants they utilize are brief relative to their life-span as foragers. However, the blooming time of most plants available to Bombus fervidus workers are long relative to their lifetime. Switching was rarely observed in these bees, even in some individuals observed daily for up to 1 mo at the same foraging area containing other plant species in bloom that were highly attractive to other individuals of the same bumblebee species. On a per flower basis, those flowers producing the most food rewards generally had the largest number of bees majoring from them, and the food rewards available were roughly comparable between different kinds of flowers, regardless of their differences in rates of nectar production. Specializing was usually preceded by sampling a variety of rewarding as well as nonrewarding flowers. When the flowers from which bees were majoring in an area were experimentally removed many of the bees sampled flowers of other concurrently blooming plants, but they generally did not switch to flowers from which the food rewards were being depleted by specialists, unless these were experimentally fortified with syrup. Upon finding superior food rewards in enriched blossoms, they switched immediately. Flower-specificity is related to site-specificity. Many bees shared the same foraging area, but different individual bees at the same site utilized the flowers of different plant species. When the foraging area contained landmarks, the bees visited clumps of flowers in a sequence (foraging path) that was generally repeated several times on the same foraging trip when the foraging site was small. The foraging behavior of bumblebees is discussed from a comparative standpoint with other bees and in relation to food distribution and availability in the environment.
10.2307/1942603|For freshwater pelagic ecosystems, the biodiversity and cascading trophic interaction theories both predict that decreased piscivore populations will result in direct, short-term (a few years) increases in planktivore biomass, reductions in crustacean herbivore biomass, and increases in chlorophyll a concentration and phytoplankton biomass. An Alternate view is offered by the bottom-up:top-down theory, which predicts that in eutrophic lakes changes in piscivore biomasses will have strong impacts on planktivore numbers, weaker but observable impacts on zooplankton biomass, and little or no long-term effects on phytoplankton biomass. A partial winterkill at Lake St. George, Ontario, Canada allowed us to test these predictions. The data set comprised measures of: (1) piscivore and planktivore numbers, (2) zooplankton species composition, size structure, and biomass, (3) chlorophyll a concentration and Secchi depth, and (4) water chemistry from 1980 through 1986. Prior to the winterkill of 1981-1982, the piscivore population was high (1000-2000 piscivores/ha), the planktivore population was intermediate (8000-10 000 planktivores/ha), zooplankton biomass was intermediate (2400 @mg/L), and chlorophyll a concentration was high (5-12 @mg/L). In the year following the winterkill (1982), piscivore and planktivore numbers were low, and zooplankton biomass and chlorophyll a concentration were high. During the next 2 yr (1983-1984) the planktivore population increased rapidly to densities >20 000 individuals/ha, zooplankton biomass density decreased to <1600 @mg/L and chlorophyll a concentration decreased. During the final 2 yr of the study, piscivores recruited to near prewinterkill levels, planktivores were reduced to <8000 individuals/ha, zooplankton biomass increased, and chlorophyll a concentration decreased. Over the 7 yr data set, we found a strong negative correlation between numbers of piscivores and planktivores, a weaker correlation between numbers of planktivores and zooplankton biomass, and no between-year correlation between zooplankton biomass and chlorophyll a concentration. There was, however, a positive correlation between total epilimnetic phosphorus and chlorophyll a concentration. These data are consistent with predictions made by the bottom-up:top-down model, and the implication is that at Lake St. George, the trophic cascade uncouples at the zooplankton @[ phytoplankton link. We speculate that this may be due to the combined effects of lake trophy and Daphnia species composition and size.
10.2307/1942534|This study uses descriptive data and field experiments to examine a seasonal succession between two planktonic grazers (Daphnia rosea and Daphnia pulicaria) in a small Vermont lake. Each year Daphnia populations hatched from resting eggs during May and both species produced numerous parthenogenetic generations before the appearance of males and ephippia in late September. During the 2 yr of study, D. rosea had an apparent advantage in spring and early summer, but was rapidly replaced by D. pulicaria during late summer and autumn. These shifts in the species balance were associated with reversals in reproductive success. Moreover, the species with the higher birth rate also tended to have a lower mortality rate. An analysis of population structure, reproduction, and mortality suggests that inter- and intraspecific competition, not fish predation, limited population growth. Field experiments in both small (3.8-L) and large (12 000-L) enclosures demonstrate that the demise of D. rosea during late summer was a direct consequence of competition with D. pulicaria. However, the outcome of field experiments was sensitive to seasonally changing conditions. During spring and early summer, when D. rosea had a reproductive advantage at low densities in the lake, it was also the stronger competitor at high densities within experimental enclosures. The shift in species advantage during summer seems associated with a changing resource base. In spring the food for grazers was composed mostly of highly edible flagellates, while @'resistant@' algae (mostly gelatinous greens) were predominant during late summer and autumn. Grazing experiments and observations on gut contents suggest how D. pulicaria was favored by this change in food conditions. Grazing experiments with a radioactively labeled flagellate (Chlamydomonas) show that the two Daphnia species had very similar feeding rates on this alga. In addition, direct observations on the composition of gut contents demonstrate that they ingested virtually identical proportions of common phytoplankton species. However, experiments with labeled natural algae and observations on the quantity of ingested algae indicate that D. pulicaria was more effective in utilizing @'resistant@'algae.
10.2307/2937276|An annual organic carbon budget is presented for an 8-km segment of Creeping Swamp, an undisturbed, third-order swamp-stream in the Coastal Plain of North Carolina, USA. Annual input of organic carbon (588 gC/m^2) was 96% allochthonous and was dominated by leaf litter inputs (36%) and fluvial, dissolved organic carbon (DOC) inputs (31%). Although the swamp-stream was primarily heterotrophic, autochthonous organic carbon input, primarily from filamentous algae, was important during February and March when primary production/ecosystem respiration (P/R) ratios of the flooded portions were near one. Annual output of organic carbon via fluvial processes (214 gC/m^2, 95% as DOC, was 36% of total annual inputs, indicating that the swamp-stream segment ecosystem was 64% efficient at retaining organic carbon. Respiration (327 gC/m^2) accounted for most of this retention, or about 57% of annual inputs, and storage accounted for the remaining 7% of inputs. Organic carbon dynamics in the Creeping Swamp segment were compared to those reported for upland stream segments using indices of organic matter processing suggested by Fisher (1977) and a loading potential index suggested here. Creeping Swamp, while loading at a high rate, retains a much larger portion of its organic carbon inputs than two upland streams. Organic carbon loading potential in Creeping Swamp is very large, primarily because of its great width and complete canopy; however, its low gradient and dense vegetation enhance organic carbon retention, especially of coarse particulate organic carbon (COPC), by maintaining low water velocities with little erosive force, tortuous flow pathways, and debris dams. Most of the retention and oxidation of organic carbon in the flooded Creeping Swamp ecosystem takes place in the floodplain. It is suggested that floodplain exchanges should also be considered in budgets of higher gradient rivers and streams. Despite the high degree of retention and oxidation of organic inputs to Creeping Swamp, there is a net annual fluvial export of 21 gC/m^2, mostly in the dissolved form. Watersheds drained by swamp-streams in the southeastern United States are thought to have large organic carbon exports compared to upland forested drainages, because the stream network covers a much greater proportion of the total watershed area.
10.2307/2963490|To test how well use of discrete trophic levels represents pelagic trophic structure, we compiled dietary data from
10.2307/2937062|One possible response of plant populations to heterogeneous environments is genetic adaptation resulting in the formation of distinct ecotypes. Genetic adaptation to stressful environments may affect both the limits to species boundaries and the potential for response to a changing environment. Reciprocal transplant experiments have frequently been used to describe ecotypic differentiation and to infer the role of natural selection when there is evidence for home site advantage. The demonstration of a home site advantage, however, does not reveal which plant characters are responsible for conferring increased fitness on populations planted in their native site. Here, we combine the classic reciprocal transplant experiment with multivariate regression analysis of selection to ask a series of questions relevant to understanding adaptive genetic differentiation in natural plant populations. Impatiens pallida plants from a mesic floodplain and a dry hillside site were reciprocally transplanted. We initially presumed the hillside to be a stressful site for Impatiens given its sparser population of consistently smaller individuals. This study describes the two environments from the perspective of the plant to ask whether it is stressful. In addition, we investigate genetic differentiation between populations and ask whether the two populations are distinctly adapted to their home sites. To identify traits that may be important for conferring home site advantage, we quantify present-day natural selection in these sites and ask whether the observed selective forces can explain genetic differences. Finally, because phenotypic correlations may play an important role in a population's response to its environment, we investigate relationships among traits to determine the extent to which they are genetically and/or environmentally controlled. The large reduction in total seed production when plants from both populations were grown on the hillside supported our initial bias that this site was stressful to Impatiens. In addition, the higher relative fitness of each population planted in its native site demonstrated that these populations represent distinct ecotypes. Genetic differences between populations were observed for several life history and morphological characters. In particular, plants from the hillside population were smaller and produced cleistogamous flowers earlier than floodplain plants. Selection analysis revealed that, while there is strong selection favoring early flowering on the hillside, there is no advantage to early flowering for plants grown on the floodplain. An increased developmental rate, which allows plants to produce seeds before they succumb to drought stress, appears to be the most important mechanism responsible for the greater relative fitness of the hillside population in its native site. While greater total plant leaf area is favored by selection on the floodplain, there is no evidence for selection on this trait on the hillside. Phenotypic covariances among traits differed between sites and populations, resulting in differences in the action of indirect selection. There is evidence that indirect selection on correlated traits is responsible for some of the observed genetic differences.
10.2307/2963512|Despite the fact that recruitment can significantly influence the population dynamics of benthic marine populations, relatively little is known about the biological and physical processes controlling recruitment. We selected eight closely related coral reef fishes (wrasses in the family Labridae) to examine the temporal and spatial patterns of juvenile recruitment to the Caribbean island of Barbados. We used a comparative approach to study the relationships among patterns of recruitment, early life history traits, and aspects of the physical environment. For 10 wk during each of three peak recruitment (spring) seasons (1990-1992), we used a biweekly census of recently settled juveniles (8-25 mm standard length, SL) to measure the abundance of six congeners, Halichoeres bivittatus, H. radiatus, H. poeyi, H. garnoti, H. pictus, and H. maculipinna, and two confamilial labrids, Thalassoma bifasciatum and Bodianus rufus. Analysis of the otoliths of a sample of collected specimens provided estimates of larval durations, postsettlement ages, sizes at settlement, and juvenile growth rates, enabling back-calculation of settlement day for all collected juveniles. We compared temporal patterns of recruitment among species, and spatial patterns of recruitment for the most common species. Temporal patterns of recruitment were consistent among seasons for most of the labrids examined, although the magnitude of recruitment was less predictable (particularly for H. poeyi, H. maculipinna, and B. rufus). The eight labrids could be divided into two groups based on their early life history traits and within-season temporal patterns of recruitment. Halichoeres bivittatus, H. radiatus, H. poeyi, H. garnoti, and H. pictus had larval durations that were relatively short and invariant (means of 23-27 d), and all settled at fairly large sizes (9-12 mm SL) during the new moon and first maximum amplitude tide. In contrast, T. bifasciatum, B. rufus, and H. maculipinna had larval durations that were longer or more variable, and all three were able to delay metamorphosis. These three species settled at relatively smaller sizes (8-10 mm SL) during the third-quarter moon and second minimum amplitude tide. We compared temporal patterns of T. bifasciatum recruitment between Barbados and Caribbean Panama in an attempt to identify further the proximate environmental cues operating during settlement. Contrasting patterns of T. bifasciatum recruitment between the two geographical locations probably result from differences in the relative timing of the lunar and tidal amplitude cycles. Recruitment of labrids to Barbados occurred along the entire west coast of the island. Although some labrids had rather specific habitat requirements (e.g., B. rufus associated exclusively with large seaward-facing coral heads such as Montastrea spp.), most species were ubiquitous along the west coast. Species-specific juvenile densities did not often vary significantly among sites following major recruitment events, although overall densities were generally lower at a central site. Lower recruitment to that site likely results from reduced rates of larval supply due to prevailing offshore tidal flows. Thus, temporal and spatial patterns of labrid recruitment to Barbados appear to be more predictable than previously thought for reef fishes. In particular, variation in the tidal amplitude cycle may influence both the timing of settlement and, to a lesser degree, the spatial scale of larval supply. Finally, the interaction of larval biology with such physical processes is evident in the correlation between temporal patterns of recruitment and early life history traits. The functional nature of this relationship clearly warrants further study.
10.2307/3100038|Coring and excavations in a large sinkhole and cave system formed in an eolianite deposit on the south coast of Kaua'i in the Hawaiian Islands reveal a fossil site with remarkable preservation and diversity of plant and animal remains. Radiocarbon dating and investigations of the sediments and their fossil contents, including diatoms, invertebrate shells, vertebrate bones, pollen, and plant macrofossils, provide a more complete picture of prehuman ecological conditions in the Hawaiian lowlands than has been previously available. The evidence confirms that a highly diverse prehuman landscape has been completely transformed, with the decline or extirpation of most native species and their replacement with introduced species. The stratigraphy documents many late Holocene extinctions, including previously undescribed species, and suggests that the pattern of extirpation for snails occurred in three temporal stages, corresponding to initial settlement, late prehistoric, and historic impacts. The site also records land-use changes of recent centuries, including evidence for deforestation, overgrazing, and soil erosion during the historic period, and biological invasion during both the Polynesian and historic periods. Human artifacts and midden materials demonstrate a high-density human presence near the site for the last four centuries. Earlier evidence for humans includes a bone of the prehistorically introduced Pacific rat (Rattus exulans) dating to 822 yr BP (calendar year [cal yr] AD 1039-1241). Vegetation at the site before human arrival consisted of a herbaceous component with strand plants and graminoids, and a woody component that included trees and shrubs now mostly restricted to a few higher, wetter, and less disturbed parts of the island. Efforts to restore lowland areas in the Hawaiian Islands must take into account the evidence from this study that the prehuman lowlands of dry leeward Kaua'i included plants and animals previously known only in wetter and cooler habitats. Many species may be restricted to high elevations today primarily because these remote locations have, by virtue of their difficult topography and climate, resisted most human-induced changes more effectively than the coastal lowlands.
41739365|Nutrient resorption in plants influences nutrient availability and cycling and is a key process in biogeochemical models. Improved estimates of resorption parameters are needed for predicting long-term primary productivity and for improving such models. Currently, most models assume a value of 50% resorption for nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) and lack resorption data for other nutrients and for specific vegetation types. We provide global estimates of rsorption efficiencies and nutrient concentrations for carbon (C), N, and P and the first global-scale estimates for essential nutrients such as potassium (K), calcium (Ca), and magnesium (Mg). We also examine leaf mass loss during senescence (LML) globally and for different plant types, thus defining a mass loss correction factor (MLCF) needed to quantify unbiased resorption values. We used a global meta-analysis of 86 studies and ~ 1000 data points across climates for green and senesced leaves in six plant types: ferns, forbs, graminoids, conifers, and evergreen and deciduous woody angiosperms. In general, N and P resorption differed significantly from the commonly used global value of 50% (62.1%, 64.9%, respectively; P < 0.05). Ca, C, and Mg showed lower average resorptions of 10.9%, 23.2%, and 28.6%, respectively, while had the highest rsorption, at 70.1%. We also found that resorption of all nutrients except Ca depended on leaf nutrient-status; globally, C, N, P, K, and Mg showed a decrease in resorption with increased nutrient status. On average, global leaf mass loss was 24.2%. Overall, our rsorption data differ substantially from commonly assumed values and should help improve ecological theory and biogeochemical and landsurface models.
10.2307/2937277|In regions of mediterranean climate drought deciduousness has been considered an important adaptation for many species. This investigation focuses on the influences of a mediterranean climate on the phenology of a drought-deciduous shrub Lotus scoparius ssp. scoparius. Two research sites were chosen in the Santa Ynez mountains northwest of Santa Barbara, California for the field investigations. Phenological progressions of leaf production, leaf composition, shoot elongation, lateral branch production, and flowering in even-aged stands of Lotus scoparius were correlated with such factors as temperature, relative humidity, soil moisture, plant water relations, and photoperiod. These correlations were determined during a characteristic and uncharacteristic growing season for this mediterranean-climate region. Field correlations were the basis for the design of laboratory experiments in which the influences of photoperiod, temperature, water stress, and total daily photon flux on the phenological development of Lotus scoparius were studied. Climatic controls over Lotus scoparius phenology are complex with water relations and photoperiod having the greatest influence. Photoperiodic control over leaf abscission during water stress, and leaf production following dormancy, were two important phenological phenomena related to the unpredictably fluctuating mediterranean climate of southern California. The complex climatic control over phenology in Lotus scoparius constitutes an adaptation to the California mediterranean climate.
3100019|Natural ecological communities are continuously buffeted by a varying environment, often making it difficult to measure the stability of communities using concepts requiring the existence of an equilibrium point. Instead of an equilibrium point, the equilibrial state of communities subject to environmental stochasticity is a stationary distribution, which is characterized by means, variances, and other statistical moments. Here, we derive three properties of stochastic multispecies communities that measure different characteristics associated with community stability. These properties can be estimated from multispecies time-series data using first-order multivariate autoregressive (MAR(1)) models. We demonstrate how to estimate the parameters of MAR(1) models and obtain confidence intervals for both parameters and the measures of stability. We also address the problem of estimation when there is observation (measurement) error. To illustrate these methods, we compare the stability of the planktonic communities in three lakes in which nutrient loading and planktivorous fish abundance were experimentally manipulated. MAR(1) models and the statistical methods we present can be used to identify dynamically important interactions between species and to test hypotheses about stability and other dynamical properties of naturally varying ecological communities. Thus, they can be used to integrate theoretical and empirical studies of community dynamics.
43188381|Declines in plants and herbivorous insects due to land use abandonment and intensification have been studied in agricultural areas worldwide. We tested four hypotheses, which were complementary rather than mutually exclusive, to understand the mechanisms driving biodiversity declines due to abandonment and intensification. These predict that biodiversity decline is caused by a decline in resource diversity, changes in disturbance regime, surrounding landscape conversion, and a decrease in biomass production. We compared plant richness and butterfly and orthopteran richness and diversity among three land use types in seminatural grasslands: abandoned, traditional, and intensified terraces. Then, we examined effects of changes in resource (plant) richness, frequency of disturbance (mowing), and surrounding landscapes on butterfly and orthopteran diversity to understand the mechanisms driving decline after land abandonment and intensification. Plant and herbivore richness and diversity were significantly lower in abandoned and intensified grasslands than in traditional grasslands. This trend was consistent throughout the seasons in both years of the study. Changes in mowing frequency and surrounding landscape explained plant richness declines as a consequence of land abandonment and intensification. Declines in herbivorous insects were explained by plant richness declines and changes in mowing frequency, but not by landscape changes. Plant and herbivore richness were maximized at an intermediate mowing frequency (approximately twice per year), which is typical practice on traditional terraces. This is the first report demonstrating that the intermediate disturbance hypothesis explained well the biodiversity declines in agricultural ecosystems. The richness and diversity responses of herbivore functional groups to plant richness, mowing frequency, and surrounding landscapes were generally inconsistent with predictions. We found significant trends in which butterfly and orthopteran species with low abundance in traditional terraces were lost in abandoned and/or intensive terraces. This may suggest that the number of individuals of most herbivorous species decreased randomly with respect to life-history traits following a decline in plant richness after changes in disturbance frequency. This study demonstrates that declines in herbivorous insects can be explained by multiple factors, and provides a unified explanation for biodiversity declines in both abandoned and intensified use of agricultural lands, which have often been studied separately.
10.2307/2937231|At Monteverde, Costa Rica, 10 successional plant species used 14 hummingbird species for pollination. Displacement among flowering seasons suggests that the plants influenced hummingbirds to abandon another. There was no evidence that the flowering of one plant influenced hummingbirds to abandon another Pollination is simultaneously flowering plants likely suffered nonetheless, since birds tended to move indiscriminately among flowers of different species and could lose much pollen between successive visits to conspecific plants. This may have led to scatter in flowering peaks by favoring the quick establishment of plant colonists with unique flowering seasons over colonists whose flowering seasons coincided with those of established species. The continuous supply of nectar provided by staggered flowering peaks maintained a continuous supply of hummingbirds competing for nectar. Even inconspicuous plants with few flowers received sufficient hummingbird visits for moderate to high potential rates of outbreeding. At large, flower-laden trees and shrubs, hummingbirds defending feeding territories evidently effected much inbreeding, but movements of intruders between territories kept inbreeding from becoming absolute. Nectar secretion rates varied widely among flowers of each of the 5 plant species in which nectar volume was measured. Many flowers produced little or no nectar, while a few secreted quite copious volumes. This @'bonanza@' pattern may benefit plants by reducing caloric expenditures on nectar while increasing the duration of hummingbirds' foraging bouts. The latter possibility was tested and verified experimentally with artificial flowers exposed to a free-living hummingbird on Trinidad, West Indies. When pollinators are abundant, plants with @'bonanza@' patterns can attract consistent visitors and rare, inconspicuous plants can count on consistent service. At Monteverde, the unspecialized, opportunistic nature of both plants and birds assured abundant hummingbirds and resulted in a well-integrated complex of plants and pollinators despite the transient nature of the successional habitats.
4539088|A key question in both life history evolution and conservation biology is how much the contributions of different demographic processes to the rate of population growth vary from place to place. Using data from a six-year demographic study of five nearby populations, we asked, for the first time, how well the sensitivities and elasticities of the stochastic population growth rate (
10.2307/1942500|This study compares and contrasts diets, based on 2834 prey individuals from 126 stomachs, of 16 insectivorous, aerially foraging Neotropical flycatcher species (Tyrannidae) that are seasonally sympatric in the humid Caribbean lowlands of Costa Rica. Dietary parameters examined are prey type, diversity (breadth) of prey types, heterogeneity of prey types among individuals of a species, @'patchiness@' of morphologically indistinguishable prey within individual stomachs, and number of prey items per stomach. An R-type factor analysis of prey taxa in flycatchers' stomachs delimited four interpretable factors (axes) based on differences in prey detectability, location, escape behavior, and substrate where caught. A Q-type cluster of flycatcher species, based on factor scores from the analysis of prey variables, tended to juxtapose congeners. Noncongeners that clustered closely included a pair of species (Todirostrum sylvia and Oncostoma cinereigulare) that tend to replace each other geographically. Some flycatchers failed to cluster with any other species. @'Saturation curves@' of prey-type diversity against number of stomachs sampled showed (1) adequate sampling effort for most species with 4-10 stomachs, and (2) species differences in breadth of prey types eaten. The flycatchers that did not cluster with any other species on the basis of prey taxa had the largest and smallest diet breadths of all species studied. Two species are exceptional and consistent specialists: the Ruddy-tailed Flycatcher (Terenotriccus erythrurus) ate 94% Homoptera (largely Fulgoroidea), and the Long-tailed Flycatcher (Colonia colonus) ate 67% stingless bees (Trigona species). Flycatcher species that had the most @'patchy@' diets (i.e., many individuals of the same prey species within a stomach) tend to hawk flying prey and/or reside in open country or forest canopy. Colonia colonus had extremely patchy stomach contents, but unlike other flycatchers that hawk flying prey, it had an exceptionally homogeneous diet. @'Patch feeders,@' compared with other flycatchers, tended to have many more items per stomach, suggesting the selection of many, relatively small prey per unit time. Significant variation in numbers of items per stomach, even among congeners, suggested differences in feeding rate and perhaps prey size. Comparison of species with repect to these dietary parameters helps identify a @'food resource@' for each species. The identification of the food resource (1) helps interpretation of foraging behavior of the predators, (2) facilitates discussion of prey-type and prey-size selection, (3) delineates potential ecological and evolutionary routes of species interactions, and (4) focuses attention on the nature of the food supply available to each species. The assumption that species with patchy and heterogeneous diets feed opportunistically on relatively ephemeral prey permits the following conclusions: (1) many tropical flycatchers are not opportunistic, (2) many guilds, including tropical ones, are composed of species with a variable degree of opportunism, (3) migrants are more opportunistic while wintering (in Caribbean Costa Rica) than syntopic year-round residents, and (4) open-country and canopy flycatchers tend to be more opportunistic than forest-interior species. Variation in flycatcher diets with respect to all parameters examined necessitates multiple explanatory hypotheses, and warrants a pluralistic approach to questions of community structure in these birds.
10.2307/2937124|We studied the influence of piscivorous fishes and prey refuges on assemblages of fishes occupying 52 model reefs in a large seagrass bed off St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands. We conducted three experiments: two involving 6 reefs each, lasting 2 and 5 yr, and one involving 40 reefs, lasting 1 yr. Each experiment included replicate reefs in various combinations of five structural treatments: holeless controls, 12 and 24 small holes, and 12 and 24 large holes. Tagging studies indicated that the reefs were sufficiently isolated from each other to comprise statistically independent replicates, and that resident piscivores occupied home reefs. We observed 97 species on or near the reefs, representing all major foraging guilds, and each holed reef supported hundreds of individuals. We examined four categories of fish: (1) large reef associates (too large for the small holes; most of these fish were both predators on smaller fish and prey for larger transient piscivores), (2) moray eels (piscivores that could fit into the small holes), (3) small reef associates (potential prey that could fit into the small holes), and (4) juvenile grunts (potential prey that sporadically were extremely abundant). We tested five a priori predictions of the general hypothesis that predation is an important process structuring reef-fish assemblages. The first two predictions dealt with the role of prey refuges. First, if reef holes function as prey refuges, then prey fish should be most abundant on reefs providing holes near their body diameters, because such holes would make the prey fish safest from predation. Seven of eight experimental comparisons supported this prediction, and five of them were statistically significant. Second, if refuge availability limits prey abundance, then prey fish should be more abundant on reefs with 12 holes than those with no holes, and should be more abundant on reefs with 24 holes than those with 12 holes. The first part of this prediction was verified by all nine experimental comparisons, seven of which were statistically significant. However, there were no strong differences between 12-hole and 24-hole reefs. Thus, between 0 and 12 holes per reef, holes limited local prey populations; between 12 and 24 holes per reef, the number of holes was not limiting. Several lines of evidence suggested that the latter pattern was due to temporary saturation of the study area with refuges when we added 40 reefs to 12 existing reefs. The remaining three predictions dealt directly with the community-level role of predation. First, predators should affect local prey abundance either chronically, in which case a negative relationship among reefs is predicted between the average abundances of predators and prey, or sporadically, in which case a negative relationship is predicted between the abundance of predators and the maximum number of co-occurring prey ever observed at each predator abundance. The former prediction was falsified, whereas the latter was verified. Observations of extreme type III survivorship of recruit cohorts on reefs with many piscivores and occasional direct observations of piscivory bolstered the conclusion that this relationship was causal. Finally, we predicted that predators should affect the number of prey species on a reef. We observed a significant negative relationship among reefs between predator abundance and maximum prey-species richness. Comparing species' relative abundances on reefs at the extremes of this regression, piscivores appear to have nonselectively reduced and extirpated both common and rare prey species, although this relationship remains purely correlative. In our model system, high local species diversity appears to have been maintained despite rather than because of predation. We propose a conceptual model where the local abundances of coral-reef fishes are determined by the relative magnitudes of recruitment by larvae, colonization by juveniles and adults, predation, and competition for refuges, each of which varies through time and space. Multifactorial field experiments will be necessary to test such pluralistic hypotheses.
10.2307/3100033|We used patch-specific matrix models to test the influence of neighboring plants on the demography of Ambrosia dumosa, a dominant perennial shrub of the Colorado Desert in southern California. In the desert literature, the presence or absence of neighboring plants is reported to influence plant growth and survival and has long been associated with plant-plant interactions that range from extreme competition to facilitation. Here we consider the less addressed question of how neighbor-defined population subsets contribute differently to overall population dynamics. Demographic data collected from >6000 individual plants from a permanently mapped hectare over 10 yr were used to divide this A. dumosa population into subsets that were defined by the presence or absence of neighbors. By partitioning the population in this way, we documented differences in population growth, elasticity structure, and stable size structure among the distinct patch types, and evaluated the contributions of each patch type to overall population dynamics. Population growth was consistently higher for population subsets of plants that were isolated throughout their ontogeny, compared to those with close neighbors throughout their ontogeny. Further, overall population growth was proportionally more sensitive to perturbations involving isolated adults, despite the projected persistence of plants with close neighbors. In short, changes in survival of isolated adults had a greater influence on population growth than changes in survival of adults with neighbors. We used life table response experiments (LTREs) to test for spatiotemporal effects of neighbors. The LTRE was consistent with the elasticity analyses in showing that dynamics among adult members made the greatest contribution to the observed differences in population growth among the neighbor-defined population subsets during each census period. Neighbor effects among adults were greater and more important than temporal variation in drought levels in decreasing population growth relative to a pooled 10-yr reference matrix that ignored neighbor effects. Although neighbor effects contributed greatly to differences in population growth among the models projected, the LTRE revealed that, relative to the reference matrix, transitions among juvenile size classes decreased population growth for the predominantly drought free 1984-1989 census interval and increased population growth for the 1989-1994 interval, which included four winters of extreme drought. We hypothesize that higher mortality during periods of high rainfall was due to increased competition among plants, especially in favor of adults at the expense of juveniles. The drought period was also characterized by increased recruitment of new adults, probably reflecting diminished competition from adults for well-established juveniles capable of growing into reproductive condition after elimination of smaller juveniles during 1984-1989. Our habitat-specific partitioning of this population revealed dramatic differences in the demographic behavior of this population and showed that neighbor status is a structuring force in this plant community. Neighbor effects were shown to be dependent on plant size and suggest that conspicuous clumped distributions of adults reflect leftover individuals with diminished demographic influence remaining in a population that is largely driven by isolated adults.
10.2307/1942331|The dynamics and energetics of subpopulations of a numerically dominant deposit-feeding polychaete species, Pectinaria californiensis Hartman, were studied and compared with crude determinations of the same for the larger but rarer coexisting species of the same feeding mode, the heart urchin Brisaster latifrons (Agassiz) and the sea cucumber Molpadia intermedia (Ludwig). Monthly samples, taken for 1 yr at five stations in Puget Sound representing different habitats, were used in conjunction with laboratory measurements of respiration to assess the effects of seasonal and spatial variation in growth, mortality, and respiration on estimates of energy flow through these species populations. Pectinaria larval settlement (2,900-24,000 animals/m^2) occurred at all locations in June 1970. Two of three age classes or cohorts were present simultaneously. Pectinaria represented 4%-26% of macrofaunal (> 1 mm) biomass, and 9%-47% of numbers at the five locations, based on the mean of four seasonal estimates. At the two stations where Brisaster and Molpadia coexisted with Pectinaria they contributed, respectively, 79% and 4% of macrofaunal biomass at one station and 13% and 63% at the other. Recruitment and growth of the two echinoderms appeared negligible, as neither numbers nor mean size changed during the study period. Annual production of Pectinaria, not including excretion or mucus production, varied 1.4-48 g C/m^2@?yr (14-49 kcal/m^2@?yr). The ratio of annual production to mean annual biomass, varying in the study area 3.3-5.5m provided a better estimate of turnover than the more commonly used ratio based on the lifetime of a cohort because of the difficulty of determining lifespan, a problem with most long-lived organisms. Pectinaria contributed 14%-42% of macrofaunal respiration in the area studied. But these numbers were shown to be affected by the failure to reproduce in the laboratory in situ oxygen-tension conditions. Such overestimates of population respiration from laboratory measurements were most marked for Brisaster and Molpadia. These latter estimates, while reflecting biomass data, unrealistically overshadowed the respiration of all other organisms. The sum of Pectinaria production and respiration (corrected for in situ oxygen tension) varied 2.6-9.2 g C/m^2@?yr (27-98 kcal/m^2@?yr), reflecting differences in rates of growth and mortality among stations. At two stations where primary production data were available, Pectinaria assimilated at least 1.3% and 3.3% of the carbon fixed by phytoplankton. Subsequently, 0.6% and 1.7%, respectively, were made available to predators and decomposers in the form of Pectinaria flesh. Because of its greater turnover of assimilated energy, Pectinaria contributed more to metabolic processes and to foodchain dynamics of the seabed than did the coexisting echinoderms. The echinoderms, on the other hand, may exert important influences on the structure of the community not accounted for in normal energetic assessments. Spatial and temporal variations in energy flow through species subpopulations can be large, and thus may limit the usefulness of a stability assumption in the development of predictive models for organic matter budgets.
10.2307/1942593|The Arctic Tundra Simulator (ARTUS) is a computer-based simulation model of Eriophorum vaginatum tussock tundra ecosystems found in north central Alaska. ARTUS simulates the annual patterns of heat and water balance, carbon fixation, plant growth, and nitrogen and phosphorus cycling. ARTUS runs in 1-d time steps for a growing season from 1 May to 17 September and is intended to run for several years. The abiotic section of ARTUS encodes the seasonal input of the environmental driving variables and calculates the resultant thermal and water regimes to define the heat and water environments for the tussock tundra system. The primary driving variables are daily total solar radiation, air temperature, precipitation, surface albedo, wind, and sky conditions. The soil compartment contains three organic horizons, which are recognized by their state of physical and chemical decomposition, and one mineral horizon. Six vascular plant species and four moss species are simulated. The model has seven compartments for each vascular plant species: total nonstructural carbohydrates, total nitrogen, total phosphorus, leaves grown in the current season, leaves grown in previous years, conducting and storage stems plus roots, and absorbing roots. In ARTUS the functional unit of the plant is the shoot system or ramet. Each shoot system consists of leaves, stems, fine roots (which do not have secondary growth and have a limited life-span), and larger roots, which have secondary growth and an extended life-span. Although plant processes are based on individual shoots, the ARTUS model as a whole is based on a square metre of ground. Values per square metre are calculated from the values per shoot by multiplying by the shoot density of each species. The model was validated by comparing calculated and measured peak season biomasses and nutrient contents, and the seasonal progression of environmental processes, biomass, carbohydrate contents, and nutrient contents. ARTUS successfully simulated the seasonality of the physical environment, but simulated thaw depths were deeper than those measured at all sites. The simulated value for total vascular plant production was 77% of the measured value. The simulated values for ecosystem respiration for Eagle Creek were within the range of measured values. Simulations with ARTUS indicated different patterns of growth and different storage-carbohydrate levels in deciduous shrubs, evergreen shrubs, and graminoids. The simulated seasonal course of net primary production of vascular plants and mosses was similar to the pattern measured at Eagle Creek. Sensitivity analysis using ARTUS indicated that the tussock tundra is more sensitive to external environmental factors, such as increased temperature, than to internal ecosystem variables. The development of ARTUS was limited by the unavailability of data on whole-plant carbon balance including root and stem respiration. More data are also needed on decomposition processes and nitrogen and phosphorus cycling. Adequate climatological data for northern Alaska are needed for extensive validations of the model. While caution should be used in basing managerial decisions on model simulations, ARTUS can be used to identify and quantify the magnitude and direction of plant responses to changes in state variables in the model.
10.2307/1942301|An annual energy budget is presented for Bear Brook, a small undisturbed second-order stream in northeastern United States. The ecosystem approach, in which all input and output fluxes of potential energy as organic matter are considered, is used to describe the dynamics of energy flow in a 1,700-m segment of the stream. The annual input of energy to the system is 6,039 Kcal/m^2. Over 99% of this is allochthonous, from the surrounding forested watershed or from upstream areas. Autochthonous primary production by mosses accounts for less than 1% of the total energy available to the ecosystem. Algae and vascular hydrophytes are absent from the stream. Meteorologic inputs (litter and throughfall) from the adjacent forest account for 44% of annual energy input. Most of this is in particulate form. The remaining 56% of input enters by geologic vectors (inflowing surface and subsurface waters). Eighty-three per cent of the geologic input and 47% of the total input of energy occur as dissolved organic matter. Approximately 4,730 Kcal/m^2 of organic detritus, nearly equally divided between leaves and branches, is stored within the system. The size of this detritus reservoir is stable from year to year. The turnover time of the branch compartment is about 4.2 years; of the leaf compartment, about 1 year. Although much of the annual input of energy is in a dissolved state, dissolved organic matter does not tend to accumulate in the system and displays a very rapid rate of turnover. Sixty-six per cent of annual energy input is exported to downstream areas in stream water. The remaining 34% is lost as heat through consumer activity. Bear Brook is a strongly heterotrophic steady-state system in which import and export of organic matter play a significant role. A conceptual scheme is presented by which import, export, photosynthesis, and respiration may be used to describe the functional dynamics and developmental processes of ecosystems.
10.2307/2657167|Increasing the predictive capabilities of ecological models is important for providing solutions to environmental problems. Progress in this direction relies on the understanding of basic ecological processes. Here, I used interaction web models and natural history information to predict the direct and indirect interactions that regulated succession in a relatively unstudied rocky shore assemblage in the northwest Mediterranean. Natural changes in abundance of organisms and general patterns of succession were examined during March 1991-September 1995. It was predicted that limpets enhanced succession by preventing the monopolization of the substratum by filamentous algae, indirectly facilitating the establishment of other colonists, such as the red alga Rissoella verruculosa, cyanobacteria (Rivularia spp.), and barnacles (Chthamalus spp.). This hypothesis was first tested by comparing succession in artificially denuded patches of substratum maintained at reduced densities of herbivores, with similar patches exposed to natural densities. Variability in the effects of limpets was examined in relation to the size of patches and time of clearance. To unravel the pathways of interaction that influenced the outcomes of this long-term experiment, I manipulated separate components of the assemblage at early and late stages of succession. I tested whether the filamentous algae inhibited the establishment of Rissoella and Rivularia in the absence of limpets, and whether grazers could exert direct positive effects on these algae. I also tested whether the colonization of Rissoella and barnacles under the natural grazing regime could reduce the local abundance of limpets, thereby facilitating the establishment of filamentous algae at later stages of succession. The filamentous algae monopolized the substratum in the experimental absence of limpets, while in the presence of these grazers, Rissoella, Rivularia, and barnacles colonized. The filamentous algae inhibited the establishment of Rissoella (but not that of Rivularia) independently of the presence of limpets, and there was no positive direct effect of these herbivores on Rissoella. Interactions between barnacles and Rissoella were negligible, but these organisms jointly reduced the coverage of Rivularia and the local density of limpets, eventually facilitating the colonization of filamentous algae late in succession. A main implication of the results of this study is that interaction web models integrated with a basic understanding of the mechanisms of interaction and supported by natural history information, may lead to correct predictions of the direct and indirect effects of species and their influence on succession. As an extension of this approach, I have presented a set of general, qualitative models of succession, applicable to different marine benthic habitats. It is argued that making these models more quantitative, through the analysis of specific alternatives to the null hypotheses, could substantially increase our capabilities to understand and predict the dynamics of these systems.
23206688|Ecological theory often fails applied ecologists in three ways: (1) Theory has little predictive value but is nevertheless applied in conservation with a risk of perverse outcomes, (2) individual theories have limited heuristic value for planning and framing research because they are narrowly focused, and (3) theory can lead to poor communication among scientists and hinder scientific progress through inconsistent use of terms and widespread redundancy. New approaches are therefore needed that improve the distillation, communication, and application of ecological theory. We advocate three approaches to resolve these problems: (1) improve prediction by reviewing theory across case studies to develop contingent theory where possible, (2) plan new research using a checklist of phenomena to avoid the narrow heuristic value of individual theories, and (3) improve communication among scientists by rationalizing theory associated with particular phenomena to purge redundancy and by developing definitions for key terms. We explored the extent to which these problems and solutions have been featured in two case studies of long-term ecological research programs in forests and plantations of southeastern Australia. We found that our main contentions were supported regarding the prediction, planning, and communication limitations of ecological theory. We illustrate how inappropriate application of theory can be overcome or avoided by investment in boundary-spanning actions. The case studies also demonstrate how some of our proposed solutions could work, particularly the use of theory in secondary case studies after developing primary case studies without theory. When properly coordinated and implemented through a widely agreed upon and broadly respected international collaboration, the framework that we present will help to speed the progress of ecological research and lead to better conservation decisions.
23047065|We documented riparian primary succession on an expansive floodplain (Kol River, Kamchatka, Russian Federation) that receives large nitrogen subsidies from spawning Pacific salmon. As is typical of primary succession, new alluvial deposits in the lower Kol floodplain were nitrogen poor (200 kg persulfate N/ha to 10 cm soil depth); however, nitrogen accumulated rapidly, and soils contained 1600 kg N/ha (to 10 cm + the litter layer) by 20 years. Soil nitrogen approached an asymptote at 2500 kg N/ha by 80 years. Nitrogen-fixing Alnus trees were a minor component of the forest community during the first 20 years of succession. However, salmon carcasses were a substantial nitrogen source during this period of rapid nitrogen accumulation. Similar to other northern Pacific Rim floodplains, we found that new alluvial deposits were colonized by Salix, Chosenia, and Alnus trees; but, unlike other described chronosequences, the community transitioned into meadows of tall forbs (some >2.5 m in height) dominated by Filipendula camtschatica after 100 years. Foliage of all the major vascular plants occurring in the modern floodplain was exceptionally nitrogen rich (i.e., mean molar C:N for each species was 1227, and the range for all samples was 836); therefore we suggest that salmon allow nitrophilic vegetation to proliferate in the Kol floodplain by ameliorating nitrogen infertility during early succession and building nitrogen rich soils.
10.2307/2937178|Variation in the timing of seed dispersal among individuals of Cornus drummondii was marked at two sites in east-central Illinois. Individuals whose fruit crops were removed most quickly shared few characteristics. Fruit removal rates, dispersal efficiency (percent of total crop removed), and dispersal success (estimated percent of dispersed seeds attributable to each individual) were not closely related to characteristics of the fruits or the immediate environment of the parent plant. Although small fruit crops were often depleted proportionately faster than large crops, dispersal success relative to others in the population was positively related to crop size; i.e., plants with larger crops contributed more seeds to the total pool of dispersed seeds than plants with smaller crops. Over the 4-yr study, individual plants often exhibited between-year differences in ripening time, crop size, and pulp characteristics, but between-year correlations of traits were only sporadically significant. Crop size showed the most consistent between-year correlation (i.e., plants with large crops tended to make large crops in all years), but even this trait was not always correlated between years. Dispersal success was usually correlated between years, but dispersal efficiency was not. Annual (and sometimes site) differences in most dispersal-related plant traits and in dispersal efficiency and dispersal success were common. No plant traits except crop size had consistent effects on dispersal success, although we found some evidence of selective foraging. We suggest that fruit removal may be more a function of avian biology (flocking and social behavior, frequency of foraging interruptions, sun-seeking in cold weather, etc.) than of most characteristics of the fruiting plant. The ecological consequences of differences in dispersal phenology were variable between years. Postdispersal seed predation and germination success showed no consistent seasonal trends. The most important consequence of failure of early fruit dispersal may be a high probability of nondispersal (falling, rotting, being eaten by a predispersal seed predator or poor dispersal agent). Great variation in space and time in the outcome of bird/fruit interactions means that studies directed at the evolution of the interactions need to have both larger samples sizes and longer duration than has been feasible so far.
27646119|Changes in the composition of a community due to the invasion by exotic plant species can lead to modification of ecosystem function that, in turn, produces feedbacks that drive further changes in community composition. The development of predictive models of this process requires an understanding of the spatial extent of the impacts of the exotic species, particularly during early stages of invasion. The main objective of this study was to characterize the neighborhood dynamics of ecosystem transformations by the invasive tree species Norway maple (Acer platanoides L.) and tree of heaven (Ailanthus altissima Mill.) in temperate forests of the northeastern United States. By using a neighborhood approach in multiple sites, we sought to determine (1) the magnitude and spatial extent of the effects of the two invasive species on soil properties and processes; (2) whether the effects of the invasive species were site dependent; and (3) the differences in the effects of invasive versus native tree species on ecosystem processes. Our results showed that Norway maple and tree of heaven alter the functioning of temperate forest ecosystems even at relatively low densities by increasing cycling rates (i.e., net N mineralization, net nitrification, Ca mineralization) and nutrient availability (i.e., pH, Ca, Mg, K, N). At the neighborhood scale, the spatial extent of the impact of the two species varied strikingly among soil properties. Moreover, the neighborhood effects of the two invasive species were site dependent, with the magnitude of the impact increasing with soil fertility. At the community level, Norway maple and to a lesser extent tree of heaven had stronger effect on soils than any of the dominant native tree species considered. We conclude that the invasion of northeastern forests by Norway maple and tree of heaven is characterized by predictable, neighborhood-specific acceleration of nutrient cycling rates and localized increases in nutrient pools. These ecosystem alterations have enormous potential for the modification of competitive hierarchies in forest communities. In particular, Norway maple and tree of heaven may change relative abundances within the native community to the benefit of native species that are more competitive on nutrient rich sites.
23047556|We used the extirpation, reintroduction, and spread of sea otters (Enhydra lutris) along the west coast of Vancouver Island, Canada, to evaluate how the otterurchinalgae trophic cascade creates variation in rocky reef community structure over space and time. By repeatedly sampling both randomly selected and permanently marked sites in areas where sea otters were continuously present, continuously absent, or became reestablished during a 23-year study period, we found a highly predictable association between community phase states (algae abundant or urchins abundant) and the population status of sea otters. In areas where sea otters were continuously present, urchins were rare and algae dominated, whereas in areas where otters were continuously absent, urchins were abundant and algae were rare. Despite this predictability, the species composition and abundance of algae within otter-dominated sites and the abundance of urchins in otter-free sites were spatially and temporally variable. The transition from the urchin-dominated to algal-dominated phase state, brought about by sea otters preying on sea urchins, was documented; at some sites the transition occurred rapidly, whereas at other sites a short-lived transitional state composed of algalurchin mosaics occurred. We experimentally demonstrate that this mosaic forms when living urchins flee from the damaged tests of conspecifics that are discarded by foraging sea otters, and kelp recruits into the urchin-free patches. Thus, although the phase state dynamics appeared to be stable and predictable based upon the presence or absence of sea otters, we found that spatial and asynchronous temporal variation in recruitment, mortality demography, succession, and prey behavior led to differences in the abundance and/or composition of species within the two phase states.
27806888|Midge (Insecta: Diptera: Nematocera) assemblages were examined in surface sediment samples from Lake Pieni-Kauro and the Saavanjoki River, eastern Finland, using their sedimentary remains. The aim was first to identify the forcing factors behind midge distribution within an aquatic ecosystem and second to develop new midge-based calibration models for the reconstruction of past environmental conditions, with a special focus on paleohydrology. The third objective was to apply the models to a midge stratigraphy. The effect of sampling-point selection in paleolimnological studies and its possible influence on chironomid-inferred temperature reconstructions was also assessed. The species assemblages in Lake Pieni-Kauro showed high levels of heterogeneity within the surface sediment samples, signifying that the assemblages predominantly incorporate locally dwelling fauna, instead of integrating remains from a larger area. Stream flow and water depth were the most important factors explaining the midge distributions in the lake. In addition, sampling distance from littoral vegetation (DLV), proximity of wetland, distance from shore, and organic content of the sediment were significantly correlated statistically with the midge assemblages. In the lacustrine samples, absolute midge abundance and taxon richness were highest at intermediate water depths. Because hydrological variables were the most important factors controlling the species' distributions, paleohydrological calibration models for water depth and stream flow were developed. Additionally, a transfer function for the sampling DLV was developed that can be used to track changes in the past location of littoral vegetation stands, which is often closely related to hydrological factors. The models' test use on the subfossil midge assemblages of the previously available downcore sediment sequence showed coherent and expected results, compared with previous studies and the modern observed environmental conditions of the lake. Based on the results of this study, these models can provide reliable estimates of past hydrological variability that is closely related to climatic changes and thus may provide a valuable tool for environmental management and global change assessments. This study also indicates that care should be taken in choosing the sampling point in chironomid-based calibration studies because the influence of depth may distort the temperature estimations.
10.2307/1942609|The controls of potential nitrogen mineralization, nitrate production, and nitrate mobilization in a wide range of forest ecosystems were investigated through a combination of field and laboratory experiments. Trenched plot experiments were performed in 17 forests, and laboratory incubation studies of potential ammonium and nitrate production were made on soils from 14 of these sites. The site with the greatest potential for nitrate production in the laboratory was a New Hampshire northern hardwoods forest. Several other sites, including New Hampshire balsam fir, Indiana maple-beech, New Mexico aspen, and Oregon western hemlock forests, also had high potential nitrate production. All of these sites also had rapid nitrate movement to below the rooting zone following trenching in the field. Of nine processes which could be important in preventing or delaying solution losses of nitrate from disturbed forests, two appeared most important among the forests we examined. Low net nitrogen mineralization (caused by either nitrogen immobilization or low gross nitrogen mineralization) and lags in nitrification (probably caused by either low initial populations of nitrifying bacteria or the allelochemic inhibition of nitrification) were identified as important in several sites and in different regions. A direct relationship between the amount of nitrogen in annual litterfall and the proportion of forest floor nitrogen mineralized in laboratory incubations was observed, suggesting that refractory organic nitrogen compounds are produced in nitrogen-poor sites. An inverse relationship was found between the amount of nitrogen in litterfall in these and other sites and the carbon:nitrogen ratio of that litterfall, suggesting that the immobilization capacity of litter is increased in nitrogen-poor sites. The presence and length of lags in nitrification were inversely correlated with the mean concentration of mineral nitrogen in mineral soil. These patterns suggest that nitrogen retention within disturbed forest ecosystems can be caused by low nitrogen availability prior to disturbance.
10.2307/2937360| This paper analyzes the factors controlling the development and persistence of patterns of distribution, abundance, and diversity of space users in the low rocky intertidal zone of New England. The spatial structure of this community changes along a wave exposure gradient. Mussels (Mytilus edulis) dominate at headlands exposed to wave shock, the alga Chondrus crispus (Irish moss) dominates at sites protected from wave shock, and both are abundant at areas intermediate in exposure to waves. Using a combination of experiments (exclosures, enclosures, removals) and observations, we evaluated the effects of several factors on this system, including (1) predation, (2) herbivory, (3) plantplant competition, (4) plant-animal competition, and (5) physical disturbance from high-energy waves. The interaction having the greatest effect on the structure of this low zone association was predation. At protected sites, the starfish Asterias forbesi, Asterias vulgaris, and the snail Thais lapillus prey heavily on Mytilus, which is the functionally dominant competitor in the low (and mid) zone(s). When secondary succession is initiated by removal of all erect animals and plants, community development in the absence of these predators (predator exclusion) results in competitive elimination of both the barnacle Balanus balanoides and Chondrus by Mytilus. A similar result occurs if predators are excluded from unaltered stands of Chondrus. Controls in these experiments (i.e., with predators present) usually either developed to, or remained as stands of Chondrus. At intermediate sites, patches of Mytilus occassionally escaped from predation, suggesting predation intensity is patchy in space and time. Persistence of Chondrus is thus a by-product of the activities of predators at protected sites. At exposed sites, predators do not control the mussels. As a consequence, Mytilus outcompetes Chondrus and Balanus for space and achieves structural dominance. Periwinkle abundance decreases, and abundance and seasonality of ephemeral algae increase with increasing wave shock. Results of manipulations during both primary and secondary succession indicate that Littorina littorea, the only large, abundant herbivore in the low zone, has no direct effect on perennating (regrowing vegetatively) or established Chondrus, or on its extensive, encrusting holdfast. However, this periwinkle exerts an important indirect effect by consuming seasonally abundant ephemeral algae, which slow the rate of succession by suppressing growth of Chondrus. Once Chondrus is established, L. littorea damps variations in its abundance by cropping epiphytic ephemeral algae. The role of other herbivores seems negligible. Experiments show that limpets and sea urchins potentially could control Chondrus (and its holdfast), but they are normally too scarce to have a detectable effect on the algae. Chondrus thus monopolizes space at protected areas because (1) its competitors (mussels and epiphytic ephemeral algae) are removed by their consumers (predators and herbivores), (2) it has escaped control by herbivores, and (3) it can outcompete other perennial algae by virtue of its ability to perennate, and thus maintain its occupancy of space. The organization of this portion of the New England rocky intertidal region is thus similar in important ways to that of the mid zone (Menge 1975, 1976). Predation intensity, at least partly a function of wave shock, is great at relatively protected sites and determines the observed structural pattern (domination of space by algae). Since consumers are ineffective in controlling prey at exposed sites, mussels outcompete other space users and monopolize space on the shore. Thus, predators apparently determine the @'trajectory@' followed during succession. The persistence of algae is strongly dependent on the removal of mussels by predators. Herbivores, though ineffective in controlling the structurally dominant perennial algae, control the abundance of ephemeral algae and hence both determine the rate at which a Chondrus bed develops and stablize established beds of Irish moss by reducing variability in its abundance. Thus, herbivores evidently control the rate of community development (succession) and enhance the persistence of this alga. Disturbance from wave shock seems to operate in a fashion similar to both types of consumers by removing mussels and ephemeral algae. However, this sort of removal tends to be more catastrophic, frequently clearing large areas of space and initiating secondary succession, especially at exposed sites. The role of disturbance is thus largely that of inducing, rather than suppressing, variability in this system. 
10.2307/2963488|The application of basic ecological concepts to fields of conservation biology and applied environmental sciences is a healthy sign, but before these concepts are widely used, ecology must provide operational definitions and quantifiable methods. Keystone species and interaction strength are concepts with deep practical and theoretical implications. We studied the strength of predation on mussels (Mytilus trossulus) by the keystone seastar Pisaster ochraceus and the whelks Nucella emarginata and N. canaliculata under different environmental conditions in the Oregon intertidal zone. We attempted to determine: (1) the sensitivity of keystone predation to the presence of other predators in the system; (2) the role of other predators in the presence and absence of a keystone species; and (3) the per capita and population-level variability in interaction strengths of strong (keystone) vs. weak interactors. Predation intensity on mussels was measured by recording the survival of mussels transplanted to areas from which seastars, whelks, or both, had been either manually removed or left undisturbed at natural densities. Whelk experimental units were nested within those for the seastar treatment to account for the much larger body size and greater mobility of seastars. Each combination of seastar and whelk treatment was replicated four times in both wave-exposed and wave-protected habitats of two sites that differed in predator densities, primary productivity, and recruitment and growth rates of prey species. Predation intensity by the keystone predator was strong under all site  wave exposure combinations, and was unaffected by the presence of whelks. Whelks, in contrast, had ecologically important effects on mussel survival in the absence, but not in the presence, of the keystone predator. Population (total) interaction strength between seastars and mussels was 2-10 times stronger than that between whelks and mussels across sites and wave exposures. Per capita interaction strength of seastars was two to three orders of magnitude larger than that of whelks. However, per capita effects of seastars were more variable between sites and wave exposures, probably because simple density values grossly underestimate the ability of mobile predators to localize prey. Such interactive effects and variability in interaction strengths between keystone and weak predators may characterize all keystone predator-dominated systems, but data currently are insufficient to test this proposition. Negative effects of seastars on whelk density were observed
27646035|Despite the central role of microorganisms in the decomposition of dead organic matter, few models have integrated the dynamics of litter chemistry with microbial interactions. Here we propose a functional resolution of the microbial community that parallels the commonly used chemical characterization of plant litter, i.e., a guild of opportunist microorganisms that grows quickly and has high affinity for soluble substrates, a guild of decomposer specialists that grows more slowly and has high affinity for holocellulose substrates, and a guild of miners that grows very slowly and is specialized for degrading lignin. This guild-based decomposition model (GDM) includes the interactions of holocellulose and lignin, manifest as mutual feedback controls on microbial-based activities. It also includes N limitations on early stages of litter decay resulting from nutritional demands of microorganisms and N inhibition on late stages of litter decay resulting from reduced lignin degradation. Competitive interactions between microbial guilds result from different growth rates and substrate affinities, given limits on microbial colonization of litter. Simulations are consistent with commonly reported and proposed patterns of microbial community succession during litter decay, changes in and controls imposed by litter chemistry, and system responses to N availability. Modest impacts of litter chemistry and N effects on patterns of decay can yield substantial impacts on the relative amount of litter remaining through time, the time required to stabilize litter carbon (i.e., as the lignin content approaches 70% of the total litter carbon), the relative contributions of different guilds to decay, and the net amount of microbial production. Moreover, seemingly inconsistent patterns in system responses to N regimes can be explained by interactions between litter chemistry and microbial guilds. A validation exercise demonstrated general correspondence of model behavior to field observations. However, relationships among mass loss, litter chemistry, and N availability were more variable in field studies than in simulations. Also, observed changes in litter quality indicated the progressive accumulation of microbial products. Hence, field studies suggest expanding GDM to include dynamics of microbial products and also suggest the utility of GDM in exploring site effects on decomposition as a result of differences in microbial community composition.
10.2307/1942344|Vegetation and environment of 82 forest stands in Lancaster, York, and Lebanon Counties in southeastern Pennsylvania were studied to determine the factors controlling the location of major forest species. Plants of some species were transplanted into 12 stands in which certain environmental factors were checked each week for two growing seasons. Thirty-six per cent of the 82 stands were the oak-hickory type, in which Quercus alba, Q. velutina, Q. coccinea, Carya ovalis, and C. tomentosa were among the leading dominants. Representatives of these oak-hickory forests have very low soil moisture for extended periods of time even in a year of normal rainfall. Quercus prinus was among the main dominants in 43% of the stands, representatives of which show excellent soil-moisture conditions even in a year of severe drought. Tsuga canadensis, Quercus rubra, Fagus grandifolia, Betual lenta, and Acer saccharum were among the leading dominants in 27% of the stands; representatives of these mixed mesophytic stands showed intermediate soil-moisture conditions. Tsuga canadensis reproduces only on steep slopes where litter is removed by erosion and where soil moisture is rarely very low. Fagus grandifolia reproduces largely by root sprouts. Quercus alba, Q. coccinea, Carya ovalis, and C. tomentosa reproduce poorly in mature stands, but reproduce much better in open and successional ones. Quercus prinus and Q. rubra reproduce well in mature stands and are judged to be climax species. Vegetation has not yet stabilized following the removal of Castanea dentata as a dominant species.
10.2307/1942194|The dynamics of the organization of a community of six species of migrant predatory shorebirds (Least Sandpiper, Semipalmated Sandpiper, Dunlin, Short-billed Dowitcher, Lesser Yellowlegs, and Semipalmated Plover) was appraised by studying foraging behavior and habitat utilization under winter conditions in southern Florida and under summer conditions in the eastern Canadian Arctic. Eight foraging methods, defined primarily on the basis of how the bill is used and the pattern of locomotion, constitute the behavioral repertoire of the species. Each foraging method is correlated with a particular rate of locomotion (distance/time) and rate of feeding (pecking or probing/time). Feeding and locomotion rates seem independent of air temperature, number of conspecifics, and total number of shorebirds foraging nearby. Instead, the seasonal changes in these rates are probably related to food density. On the basis of these findings and of differences in rates of feeding and locomotion between species the most reasonable hypothesis is that food density is higher in summer on the breeding grounds and foraging is more selective. Each foraging method is combination with a particular microhabitat defines a statistically different resource. During the winter, on intertidal habitats of southern Florida, shorebirds on the whole exhibit a low behavioral and microhabitat diversity and low resource overlap between species. The small niche breadth in winter is probably a response to food limitation, and each species exists in its exclusive niche where it is optimally adapted and therefore has high foraging efficiency. In summer tundra and taiga habitats of the Arctic, shorebirds generally have a higher behavioral and microhabitat diversity (broader niche) and higher overlap between species. Exceptions to these general patterns exist among the study species. Seasonal differences in prey density, prey behavior, time available for foraging, feeding and locomotion rates, and the pattern of resource partitioning imply that shorebird populations are regulated through competitive processes occurring on their wintering habitats. Conclusions concerning coexistence mechanisms in migratory bird species and residents in seasonal environments may be erroneous if populations are studied only in the breeding season.
10.2307/1942552|I studied the proximal factors influencing dispersal from the natal site in two free-living populations of Belding's ground squirrels (Spermophilus beldingi) in the Sierra Nevada of California. I tested 10 hypotheses, each suggesting a different social, ecological, or ontogenetic factor as a proximal cause of natal dispersal in this species. Using discriminant analysis I also examined effects on dispersal of several independent variables concurrently. Data from marking and live-trapping studies over three field seasons (1979-1981) failed to support hypotheses suggesting resource shortage, ectoparasite load, social facilitation, conspecific aggression, or avoidance by conspecifics as proximal causes of natal dispersal in S. beldingi. Furthermore, dispersal is apparently not caused by changes in juveniles' response thresholds to conspecific aggression or by juveniles' attempts to avoid members of their family units, nearest neighbors, or other members of their local populations. My data supported an @'ontogenetic switch@' hypothesis that suggests natal dispersal by male S. beldingi is triggered by attainment of a particular body mass or body composition, or some combination of these two variables. Other data indicated that this ontogenetic switch initiates not only dispersal behavior per se, but also a larger syndrome o behaviors that appear to be functionally related to dispersal. Specifically, this syndrome involves changes in exploration, responses to frightening stimuli, and locomotor behavior exhibited by dispersers. I discuss possible relationships among variables operating at different proximal levels (sensu Tinbergen) to cause natal dispersal in S. beldingi and other mammals. I conclude that a complex suite of variables probably operates at genetic, physiological, and socioecological levels to proximally cause natal dispersal in each species. The ultimate (evolutionary) hypotheses most consistent with my data from S. beldingi are that dispersal: (1) reduces nuclear family incest, (2) optimizes inbreeding, and (3) improves access to mates.
23208474|How different are insights based on cross-sectional studies from those of longitudinal investigations? We addressed this question using a detailed case study encompassing a rare suite of inter-connected cross-sectional and longitudinal investigations that have spanned the past two decades and included work on: (1) the decay and collapse of large-cavity forest trees (termed "trees with hollows"), (2) populations of a suite of species of arboreal marsupials that are reliant on trees with hollows as nesting and denning sites, and (3) relationships between the abundance, type, and condition of trees with hollows and the presence, abundance, and species richness of these animals. Our case study was from the montane ash eucalypt forests of the Central Highlands of Victoria, southeastern Australia. Our longitudinal studies led to new insights that either would not have been possible from a cross-sectional study, or which were unexpected because they did not conform, or only partially conformed, to postulated responses made at the outset based on the results of earlier research. These new insights included: (1) a substantial slowing in rates of tree fall between 1997 and 2006, which were significantly lower than predicted from earlier data gathered between 1983 and 1993, (2) no evidence for a decline in populations of almost all species of arboreal marsupials between 1997 and 2007, despite the loss of nearly 14% of the measured population of trees with hollows during that time, (3) changes in nest tree selection by some species of arboreal marsupials in response to these changes in hollow availability, (4) concentration effects, in which populations of animals used the declining tree hollow resource more intensively, and (5) evidence for significant rainfall effects on temporal changes in animal abundance. Our case study underscored the additional ecological insights that can be generated from longitudinal studies, including how relationships between biota and their habitat can change over time. Understanding these temporal changes is essential for informed forest management and biodiversity conservation, and points toward the need for greater use of longitudinal data sets in ecology.
10.2307/1942296|Three species of the blenniid genus Hypsoblennius, H. gilberti, jenkinsi, and gentilis, coexist in the shallow waters of the San Diegan Warm Temperate Region. Extensive field and laboratory studies were carried out to determine the degree of ecological differentiation present in these species. The dominant species, H. gilberti and H. jenkinsi show both behavioral and ecological specializations which are lacking in H. gentilis. These differences include: Habitat preference; H. gilberti inhabits the rocky intertidal and adjacent subtidal cobble; H. jenkinsi is found only subtidally, inhabiting boring clam burrows, Serpulorbis tubes or mussel beds. Adult motility: H. gilberti is a meandering species commonly including a radius as large as 15 m within its home range. Individuals return to @'home@' pools at low tide and homing has been demonstrated for displacements as great at 45 m. H. jenkinsi is sedentary rarely wandering more than a meter from its home refuge. Homing was not demonstrated in this species, even for displacements as small as 5 m. Territoriality: Degree of territoriality correlates with movement, the sedentary species is highly territorial while this phenomena is less easily demonstrated in the meandering form. The above differences have been experimentally verified in the laboratory. All species are omnivorous, differences in gut content seem to represent different habitat associations. Reproduction occurs from spring through late summer; the eggs are guarded by the male. Hatching occurs in 4-18 days depending on temperature; the larvae are pelagic for about three months. Adult size differences reflect differing larval and first year growth plus differing longevity; determinate growth has not been demonstrated. Adult size varies between the species and is an important ecological factor. In the small tubiculous species H. jenkinsi, tube size controls fish size (habitat matching) probably through predator selection. Habitats made up of different tube sizes support populations of significantly different mean fish size. In Newport Bay, population structures are altered by a viral infection, Lymphocystis which reaches epidemic levels during the warm months. The ecological differences between the three species seem to indicate that H. gentilis is the most generalized (primitive) form. The specializations of its congeners adapt them to coexistence with limited competition. H. gentilis unspecialized and unable to compete in Southern California survives here in marginal habitats, particularly areas recently modified by man.
10.2307/2937262|Studies of the bioenergetics of the northern pocket gopher, Thomomys talpoides, are coupled with data on demography, activity budgets, and microclimates to model the energy requirements of individuals and populations in the Wasatch Mountains of Utah during 1976-1979. Metabolic rates during rest increased linearly with decreasing ambient temperature, but burrowing metabolic rates (16.3 mL O"2@?h^-^1@?g^-^0^.^7^5) were independent of both temperature and physical properties of the soil. Radio-telemetry studies indicated that free-ranging gophers are active @?50% of each day. Conservative estimates of true energy consumption were calculated using estimates of habitat-specific minimum daily burrowing requirements. Rates of burrowing measures in the laboratory were either @?0.0 or @?2.0 cm/min. The low burrowing rate was observed when the soil was frozen or saturated with water, as would occur in the field in early winter and in spring, respectively. Gophers burrowed through soil at the study site at an average rate of @?1.5 cm/min. Belowground food energy densities at gopher foraging depth declined from 24.6 to 3.2 J/cm^3 along a successional gradient (subalpine forb meadow to Engelmann spruce dominated forest). We conclude that individual gophers are food limited within the climax spruce seral stage. Further, daily energy costs associated with reproduction in females may exceed the belowground energy supply available in intermediate seral stage (aspen and subalpine fir). Reduction of burrowing rates for any reason will affect gophers in the late seral stages proportionately more than those resident in the meadow. The peak gopher densities recorded (from 62 individuals/ha in the meadow to 2 individuals/ha in spruce forest) support these inferences. Detailed demographic information was obtained only in the meadow seral stage. Adult survivorship was lower in winter than in summer and varied greatly between years (0.18-0.70 yr^-^1). Juvenile survivorship from weaning through the first winter was comparable to adult annual rates. The fertility rate was 3.75 young@?female^-^1@?yr^-^1. The energy supply and demand analyses indicate that the growth of Thomomys talpoides populations in the early seral stages is seldom directly limited by the amount of food present. From our demographic, environmental, and autecological studies we conclude that stochastic events associated with weather affect energy acquisition (burrowing) rates, and thus survivorship. In montane environments, such events may prevent populations from attaining sizes at which territorial behavior would hypothetically limit further increases. The energy flow through the meadow population at moderate to high (1976-1977) densities (at least 1100 MJ@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1) indicates that pocket gophers are proficient energy movers relative to nonfossorial small mammals. Subalpine T. talpoides populations appear commonly to attain such densities. More than 30% of the annual primary productivity allocated to belowground parts of meadow forbs may be consumed by gophers.
10.2307/1942656|Plate limpets, Acmaea (Notoacmea) scutum, are common in central California on mid-intertidal vertical faces, where they ignore erect algae and consume primarily two encrusting algae, Petrocelis middendorffii (=P. franciscana) and Hildenbrandia occidentalis. This mid-intertidal system offers a manageable diversity of species, slow-moving consumers, and a two-dimensional, stationary food resource. Such an assemblage of organisms enables detailed studies on food selection within localized sets of available foods, and provides an example of how an animal utilizes a particular, mixed assortment of foods as it forages. Previous theories of diet selection predict that an animal will maintain a fixed hierarchy of preferences; less preferred foods would be consistently passed over if a preferred food is encountered frequently. However, individual Acmaea scutum preferentially consume mixtures of foods, even when each of these foods is readily available. Adjacent individuals tend to select the same mixture of foods while sharing the same foraging area, without intraspecific partitioning of food species. A family of simple graphic models illustrates hypothetical tendencies to select a particular (proportioned) mixture of foods, and predicts how food preferences would differ where relative abundances of the foods differ. Avoiding either too much or too little of a given type of food, relative to other foods, yields a mixed diet. Unlike foraging patterns leading to increased diversity of coexisting foods, maintaining a mixed diet involves seeking out separate components of the diet, particularly when a component is locally rare. Hypothetically, this would drive rare foods toward local extinction, decreasing diversity of available foods within each foraging area. The models of food selection were tested in the natural environment using adult limpets on a series of isolated rocks where percentage cover (probability of random encounter) of each food differed. Feeding of labeled individuals on these rocks was observed repeatedly during successive high tides. Acmaea scutum is seen to fit the mixed diet model with about 60% of its algal diet consisting of Petrocelis and 40% Hildenbrandia; this is true over a wide range of availabilities of these two foods. Maintaining this mixed diet appears to avoid excessive tooth wear associated with eating tough Hildenbrandia, though this food is palatable in limited quantities. Hypothetical consequences on the food resources due to diet mixing were tested by manipulating population densities of limpets on a series of boulders, and determining overall effects of foraging on various sets of algal abundances. However, even unusually high experimental densities of limpets failed to decrease algal abundances detectably. Algal declines on both experimental and control boulders are attributed to physical factors. Simple underwater listing techniques reveal feeding activities of individual adult molluscs. Contrary to visual observations, local molluscs almost always bite part way into the macroscopic algae rather than simply brushing off and consuming microscopic epiphytes. Time lapse photographs of individual limpets indicate that their feeding usually causes negligible damage to these encrusting algae, but the limpets sometimes revisit specific foraging sites and produce visible wounds on the plants. Monthly photographs of damaged plants indicate that slow vegetative reproduction, not new settlement, usually recolonizes patches of rock exposed by feeding. Such maintenance of mixed diets may evolve generally among animals that rarely decreases the abundance of available foods.
10.2307/2937333|The developmental history of Lake Valencia, Venezuela, over the past 12 500 yr was studied by means of animal remains and some chemical and physical variables in three sediment cores. Radiocarbon dates of abandoned beach terraces also provided information for the interpretation of former lake levels. Transects of surficial sediments in the lake served as modern analogues for both animal communities in the sediments and characteristics of the sediment itself. Interpretation of cluster and multiple discriminant analyses led to the recognition of six stratigraphic zones of animal microfossils. The zones were expressions of climatically controlled fluctuations of water levels that have dominated successional processes within Lake Valencia. The animal remains were mostly carapaces of Ostracoda and Cladocera, with fewer head capsules and mouthparts of immature insects and flatworm (neorhabdocoel) egg cases. Study of the variation of animal assemblages with various environmental requirements led to the following interpretation of the zones. The basin was dry from at least 13 000 to 11 000 yr before present (BP). It filled rapidly @?10 500 yr BP, and had an outflow for 2500 yr. The level then gradually declined during the time from 8000 yr BP to 2500 yr BP, but was periodically stable during which intervals several terraces were cut. The next 2000 yr included several rises, some to the outflow. As late as 1727 AD the lake was again at the outflow level, after which it began to desiccate. Cultural influences, both indigenous and European, are expressed in the sediments of the past 2000 yr. In 1979 the level was @?25 m below the outlet and had been dropping at @?0.1-0.2 m/yr.
10.2307/2657201|Recruitment limitation of tree population dynamics is poorly understood, because fecundity and dispersal are difficult to characterize in closed stands. We present an approach that estimates seed production and dispersal under closed canopies and four limitations on recruitment: tree density and location, fecundity, seed dispersal, and establishment. Consistent estimates are obtained for 14 canopy species using 5 yr of census data from 100 seed traps and several thousand mapped trees and seedlings from five southern Appalachian forest stands that span gradients in elevation and moisture. Fecundity (seed production per square centimeter of basal area) ranged over four orders of magnitude, from 10
10.2307/2657187|In this paper we analyze the seed dispersal stage of the Prunus mahaleb-frugivorous bird interaction from fruit removal through seed delivery within the context of disperser effectiveness. The effectiveness of a frugivorous species as a seed disperser is the contribution it makes to plant fitness. Effectiveness depends on the quantity of seed dispersed ("quantity component") and the quality of dispersal provided each seed ("quality component"). For the main frugivores, we studied abundance, visitation rate, and feeding behavior, the major variables influencing the quantity component of effectiveness, and the postforaging microhabitat use and resultant seed shadows, which set the stage for postdispersal factors that will influence the quality component of effectiveness. Legitimate seed dispersers (SD) swallowed fruits whole and defecated or regurgitated intact seeds; pulp consumers (PC) pecked fruits to obtain pulp and dropped seeds to the ground, but some species occasionally dispersed seeds (PCSD species). Overall numbers of fruits removed (i.e., handled) by avian frugivores were similar in the two study years; however, the estimated percentage of seeds dispersed differed significantly, with lower relative dispersal success in the year with greater relative abundance of PC species. Similar numbers of seeds were dispersed in the two years despite nearly a fourfold difference in number of fruits produced. Fruit crop size explained >80% variance in the number of seeds dispersed per tree. A total of 38 species of birds were recorded during censuses, with frugivores representing 68.8% of them; the relative representation of SD, PC, and PCSD species was 42.2%, 17.2%, and 9.4%, respectively. Individual trees showed extensive variation in visitation rates, ranging from 0.3 to 41.6 visits/10 h in any year. The main visitors were the SD species Phoenicurus ochruros (10.8 visits/10 h), Turdus viscivorus (9.2 visits/10 h), Erithacus rubecula (3.5 visits/10 h), and Sylvia communis (2.6 visits/10 h); and the PC species Fringilla coelebs (16.7 visits/10 h) and Parus ater (4.7 visits/10 h). Species with large quantity components of effectiveness typically had either high visit or high feeding rates, combined with high probability of dispersing a handled seed. Variation among species in fruit-handling behavior, however, was the main factor influencing variation in the quantity component. Visit rate in turn was influenced largely by local abundance. No single frugivore trait, however, can adequately estimate the quantity component of disperser effectiveness. A "gulper"/"masher" dichotomy helps explain differences in fruit handling among major frugivore types and shows many correlates with other aspects of frugivore activity that ultimately influence the quantity component. Most species showed marked preferences for microhabitats with plant cover, especially P. mahaleb, midheight shrubs, and Pinus (86.1% of the departure flights) and avoided open microhabitats. Most flights were over short distances (77.5% to perches located within 30 m). Among the main frugivores, 40.3% of the exit flights were to perches >15 m away from the feeding tree, but only 18.5% of these flights were to perches >15 m from any P. mahaleb. Covered microhabitats received significantly more seeds (39.3  5.0 seeds dispersed/m<sup>2</sup>, 1988 [mean  1 SE]; 31.7  5.9 seeds dispersed/m<sup>2</sup>, 1989) than open microhabitats (2.8  0.7 seeds dispersed/m<sup>2</sup>, 1988; 1.8  0.4 seeds dispersed/m<sup>2</sup>, 1989). The potential contribution of each bird species to the seed rain in each microhabitat was estimated from the number of visits recorded, the mean number of seeds dispersed per visit, and the proportion of exit flights to each microhabitat. Microhabitats differed strongly in the proportions of seeds delivered by the main frugivores, and bird species also differed in the proportions of seeds delivered to a given microhabitat. The seed rain to covered microhabitats was delivered by a more heterogeneous assortment of species than the seed rain to open sites. The resulting seed shadow was a complex result of the interaction between movement patterns of a suite of bird species differing both in the quantity of seed dispersed and microhabitat preferences and in the landscape distribution of these microhabitat patches. This seed shadow was extremely nonrandom due both to a strong overall preference by most of the birds for the relatively scarce covered microhabitats and to species-specific preferences for particular types of covered microhabitats. Different microhabitat types not only received variable amounts of dispersed seed, but also differed in the number and identity of disperser species contributing to that seed rain.
10.2307/1942588|The level and diversity of metabolism in lotic ecosystems are largely functions of channel geomorphology and hydrology, making site-specific studies difficult to extrapolate to other parts of the watershed. This paper describes the pattern and distribution of aquatic oxygen metabolism for undisturbed boreal forest watersheds in eastern Quebec, Canada. Metabolism by periphyton, mosses, macrophytes, fine particulate organic matter (FPOM: 0.5 @mm-1mm), an coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM: >1mm) was examined during the ice-free period (April to November) of 1979 and 1980 in First Choice Creek (first order; watershed area: 0.25 km^2), Beaver Creek (second order; 1.83 km^2), Muskrat River (fifth order; 207 km^2), matamek River (sixth order; 673 km^2), and the Moisie River (ninth order; 19 871 km^2). As watershed area increases, primary production and the number of autotrophic groups are augmented with moss and macrophyte communities. Total O"2 metabolism increases downstream, ranging from <1 g@?m^-^2@?d^-^1 in First Choice Creek nearly 5 g@?m^-^2@?d^-^1 during summer in the Moisie River. Autotrophic metabolism is not normally correlated with light or chlorophyll, but annual O"2 production is highly correlated with stream order (r^2 > .76 in most cases). These data are combined with a geomorphological analysis of the watershed to discern the spatial distribution of aquatic metabolism, and to estimate total aquatic metabolism in the Moisie River drainage network. Mosses, occurring only in streams of fourth or higher order, are the most productive autotrophic component in the watershed (3.9 x 10^1^0 g/yr); by comparison, periphyton produce only 2.1 x 10^1^0 g/yr. FPOM is the most active detrital component (6.6 x 10^1^0 g/yr). Geomorphic analyses show that streams of fourth or higher order comprise only 1.2% of the total number and 12.7% of the total length, but have 76.8% of the lotic surface area, and are responsible for 86.3% of the gross production by the entire lotic drainage network. The surface area of lakes is approximately six times that of streams, but their contribution (phytoplankton) to total aquatic ecosystem metabolism is comparable only to that of lotic periphyton. Results demonstrate that the River Continuum Concept can be extended to the watershed level by combining biological measurement with geomorphological analyses of the drainage network, thus allowing a detailed description of spatial and temporal patterns for specific metabolic components and total ecosystem metabolism to be constructed.
10.2307/2937323|The structure of a tropical rocky intertidal community on Taboguilla Island on the Pacific coast of Panama is characterized by extremely low abundances of noncrustose algae and sessile animals, indistinct vertical zonation patterns (a result of the low abundances), and the occurrence of most invertebrates (except barnacles) and upright algae in holes and crevices (as opposed to open, smooth surfaces). This contrasts strikingly with two temperate rocky intertidal communities, which have high covers of plants and animals, more obvious zones, and invertebrates and upright algae occurring both on relatively homogeneous surfaces and in holes and crevices. Field experiments were done and observations were made in the Panama community to test the effects of different types of consumers (both predators and herbivores) on their prey and on the types of escapes utilized by the prey. Consumer exclusion experiments suggest that (1) predation and herbivory are severe at all times of the year, (2) consumer pressure is a cumulative function of many types and species of predators and herbivores, (3) the primary effect of larger fishes and crabs is to restrict most prey to three-dimensional refuges (holes and crevices), and (4) the primary effect of smaller consumers, mostly invertebrates, is to keep abundances of the prey low. Thus, in the Panama system, three-dimensional space (holes and crevices) appears to be particularly important as a refuge from consumers, while escapes from consumers in body size, time, or two-dimensional space (e.g., in a higher zone) documented so frequently in temperate areas, assume secondary importance for many prey. This restriction of the types of escapes utilized by prey species appears to be a consequence of two main factors: the presence of fast-moving consumers (i.e., herbivorous and predaceous fishes and herbivorous crabs which are absent or rare in the two temperate communities), and the year-round foraging of all consumers.
27646087|Explaining and predicting animal movement in heterogeneous landscapes remains challenging. This is in part because movement paths often include a series of short, localized displacements separated by longer-distance forays. This multiphasic movement behavior reflects the complex response of an animal to present environmental conditions and to its internal behavioral state. This state is an autocorrelated process influenced by preceding behaviors and habitats visited. Movement patterns depending on the behavioral state of an animal represent the broad-scale response of that animal to the environment. Quantifying how animals respond both to local conditions and to their internal state reveals how animals respond to spatial heterogeneity at different spatial scales. We used a statespace statistical approach to model the internal behavioral state and the proximate movement response of elk (Cervus elaphus) to available forage biomass, landscape composition, topography, and wolf (Canis lupus) density during summer in Yellowstone National Park, USA. We analyzed movement paths of 16 female elk fitted with global positioning system (GPS) radio collars that recorded locations at 5-h intervals. Habitat variables were quantified within 175 m radii (one-half of the median 5-h displacement) centered on the beginning location of each interval. Stepwise model selection identified models that best explained the movement distances of each animal. The behavioral state changed very slowly for most animals (median autocorrelation r = 0.93), and all animals responded strongly to time of day (with more movement in the crepuscular hours). However, the spatial variables included in the best-fitting models varied substantially among individual elk. These results suggest that strong patterns of habitat selection observed in other studies may result from frequent visits to preferred areas rather than a reduction of movement in those areas.
10.2307/1942470|Clearwing moths (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae) are a cosmopolitan family which use female-emitted pheromones as long-range sex communication signals. The pheromones of two sesiids have been identified as ZZ- and EZ-3, 13-octadecadien-1-ol-acetate. Through field trapping in Wisconsin during 1975, 1976, and 1977, males of 21 of 29 sesiids known to occur in the state were found to respond to the above compounds or similar ones. The data obtained from this field trapping were used to evaluate the contributions to reproductive isolation in Sesiidae provided by differences in pheromone, seasonal and diel activity, year of emergence, and habitat. On the basis of these data, Wisconsin Sesiidae can be grouped into six sets such that reproductive isolation between species assigned to different sets is maintained by pheromone differences. In three of the six sets more than one species are found. The data show that segregation of species within these sets is accomplished by differences in seasonal or diel activity. An objective analysis of this segregation is accomplished by considering the channel along which sex communication occurs as a resource. The chemical, temporal, and spatial axes along which the communication channel resource is partitioned among sesiid species are viewed as niche dimensions. Differential resource utilization along a niche dimension then constitutes an isolating mechanism. This conceptual framework and the computation of niche breadth and niche overlap along all dimensions allow the quantification of the degree of potential reproductive isolation (=complement of niche overlap) along all niche dimensions. Niche breadth along the various dimensions varies greatly between species, but mean (of all species) niche breadth tends to be approximately equal along each dimensions. In 93% of all pairs of all common Wisconsin sesiid species, relatively high reproductive isolation (niche overlap <0.05) is achieved by partioning along a single (chemical, seasonal activity, or diel activity) niche dimension. The remaining 7% of species pairs achieve reproductive isolation by simultaneous partitioning along more than one of the above niche dimensions. An analysis of the dispersion of niches suggests that this resource partitioning evolved as a means of achieving reproductive isolation. Pairs of Wisconsin sesiid species never depend upon year of emergence or habitat partitioning to achieve reproductive isolation. Many sesiid species pairs maintain low niche overlap along more than one dimension simultaneously. This redundancy may possibly result from "environmental noise." Such "noise" could arise when different species exhibit differing degrees of plasticity in their response to changing environmental factors. Niche overlap between a species and all other species in its guild pooled together as one (diffuse niche overlap) is low for all Wisconsin sesiids when partitioning along four niche dimensions (pheromone, seasonal, diel, spatial) is considered overall. Reproductive isolating mechanisms in Sesiidae are "long-range" in that they operate before the male and female enter the same courtship arena. Sesiidae and may other moths generally have short adult lifespans during which they do not feed, as opposed to the nectarivory of adult butterflies. Long-range reproductive isolating mechanisms allow Sesiidae and other moths to conserve time and energy during mate seeking.
43187601|Soils, plants, and microbial communities respond to global change perturbations through coupled, nonlinear interactions. Dynamic ecological responses complicate projecting how global change disturbances will influence ecosystem processes, such as carbon (C) storage. We developed an ecosystem-scale model (Stoichiometrically Coupled, Acclimating Microbe-Plant-Soil model, SCAMPS) that simulates the dynamic feedbacks between aboveground and belowground communities that affect their shared soil environment. The belowground component of the model includes three classes of soil organic matter (SOM), three microbially synthesized extracellular enzyme classes specific to these SOM pools, and a microbial biomass pool with a variable C-to-N ratio (C:N). The plant biomass, which contributes to the SOM pools, flexibly allocates growth toward wood, root, and leaf biomass, based on nitrogen (N) uptake and shoot-to-root ratio. Unlike traditional ecosystem models, the microbial community can acclimate to changing soil resources by shifting its C:N between a lower C:N, faster turnover (bacteria-like) community, and a higher C:N, slower turnover (fungal-like) community. This stoichiometric flexibility allows for the microbial C and N use efficiency to vary, feeding back into system decomposition and productivity dynamics. These feedbacks regulate changes in extracellular enzyme synthesis, soil pool turnover rates, plant growth, and ecosystem C storage. We used SCAMPS to test the interactive effects of winter, summer, and year-round soil warming, in combination with microbial acclimation ability, on decomposition dynamics and plant growth in a tundra system. Over 50-year simulations, both the seasonality of warming and the ability of the microbial community to acclimate had strong effects on ecosystem C dynamics. Across all scenarios, warming increased plant biomass (and therefore litter inputs to the SOM), while the ability of the microbial community to acclimate increased soil C loss. Winter warming drove the largest ecosystem C losses when the microbial community could acclimate, and the largest ecosystem C gains when it could not acclimate. Similar to empirical studies of tundra warming, modeled summer warming had relatively negligible effects on soil C loss, regardless of acclimation ability. In contrast, winter and year-round warming drove marked soil C loss when decomposers could acclimate, despite also increasing plant biomass. These results suggest that incorporating dynamically interacting microbial and plant communities into ecosystem models might increase the ability to link ongoing global change field observations with macroscale projections of ecosystem biogeochemical cycling in systems under change.
27806886|Ecological surveys of tropical tree communities have provided an important source of data to study the forces that generate and maintain tropical diversity. Accurate species identification is central to these studies. Incorrect lumping or splitting of species will distort results, which may in turn affect conclusions. Although ecologists often work with taxonomists, they likely make some identification errors. This is because most trees encountered in the field are not reproductive and must be identified using vegetative characters, while most species descriptions rely on fruit and flower characters. Because every tree has DNA, ecological surveys can incorporate molecular approaches to enhance accuracy. This study reports an extensive ecological and molecular survey of nearly 4000 trees belonging to 55 species in the tree genus Inga (Fabaceae). These trees were sampled in 25 community surveys in the southwestern Amazon. In a process of reciprocal illumination, trees were first identified to species using vegetative characters, and these identifications were revised using phylogenies derived from nuclear and chloroplast DNA sequences. We next evaluated the effects of these revised species counts upon analyses often used to assess ecological neutral theory. The most common morphological identification errors involved incorrectly splitting rare morphological variants of common species and incorrectly lumping geographically segregated, morphologically similar species. Total error rates were significant (6.87.6% of all individuals) and had a measurable impact on ecological analyses. The revised identifications increased support for spatially autocorrelated, potentially neutral factors in determining community composition. Nevertheless, the general conclusions of community-level ecological analyses were robust to misidentifications. Ecological factors, such as soil composition, and potentially neutral factors, such as dispersal limitation, both play important roles in the assembly of Inga communities. In contrast, species-level analyses of neutrality with respect to habitat were strongly impacted by identification errors. Although this study found errors in morphological identifications, there was also strong evidence that a purely molecular approach to species identification, such as DNA barcoding, would be prone to substantial errors. The greatest accuracy in ecological surveys will be obtained through a synthesis of traditional, morphological and modern, molecular approaches.
10.2307/1942365|Every year the Kafue River, one of the main tributaries of the Zambezi River in Zambia, floods a broad level area, the Kafue Flats, to a depth of up to 5 m for several months. The flats are 235 km long and up to 40 km wide. The life of the flats is conditioned primarily by the alternating rainy and dry seasons and by the floods. About 80 cm of rain falls from November to April. The Kafue rises slowly during the rains, is highest in May, and falls during the latter part of the dry season. Vegetation is composed primarily of grasses, especially Oryza barthii. Because of the abundant water the primary productivity of the flats is much greater than that of the surrounding woodlands. Secondary productivity also is high. Every year there is an alternation of aquatic and terrestrial faunas. During the floods fish move onto the flats from the Kafue, and most spawning takes place there. Terrestrial species are driven off, but as the floods recede they reoccupy the flood plain and use what is by far the best grazing in the region. Large mammals find shelter in tall stands of grass, small mammals in the thick mat of vegetation that covers much of the ground or in the deeply cracked soil. There is a gradient in use of the flood plain: some species (hippopotamus, otter) always stay near the river at low water, others (lechwe, zebra, wildebeest) go for varying distances onto it, and more than half of the mammals (kudu, squirrel, vervet, aardvark) go onto it little if at all. Failure to use the flood plain seems to be due to absence of suitable habitats or food, rather than exclusion by the floods. The most abundant large mammal on the flood plain is the lechwe, the only terrestrial ungulate that sometimes feeds in the floodwaters. Several shrews and mice, especially Mastomys natalensis, are common on the food plain and breed there during the rains. During the floods they leave the flood plain or take refuge on natural levees along the Kafue. Large populations of water birds are common. Crocodile and monitor live near the water's edge and move in and out with the floods like the hippopotamus. Some snakes are common on the flats, but turtles and frogs are not. Although ants and termites are abundant in the surrounding region, they are largely excluded from the flats by the floods.
10.2307/2937284|This study evaluated the ecological and taxonomic correlates of seed mass variation among 648 angiosperm species of the Indiana Dunes region (113 families, 507 genera in the original flora). The sample represented 50% of the species, 60% of the genera, and 67% of the families reported from the area. Species were chosen at random from the published flora. Each species was characterized by family membership, habitat, life history, phenological characters, and native vs. alien status, in order to determine the relationship among species between these variables and mean seed mass. Unique to this study are measurements of the effects of phenology and taxonomic family on seed mass. Each species occurred in @>1 of 13 habitat types described in the Intiana Dunes flora. To determine the effect of apparent water and light availability on seed mass, each habitat was assigned to one of four categories representing combinations of inferred water and light availability. Life histories or life forms represented were: annuals, biennials, herbaceous vines, parasites, perennials, short-lived perennials, shrubs, small trees, trees, and woody vines. Two phenological variables were available for most species: the time at which flowering begins (early, middle, or late), and the duration of flowering (short: <2mo; medium: 2-3mo; long: >3 mo). The mean seed mass of each species was established by weighing samples from herbarium specimens in the United States National Herbarium. The frequency distribution of raw seed mass is highly skewed among species, so mean seed mass for each species was assigned to 1 of 14 seed mass classes based on a log scale (cf. Baker 1972). This transformation achieved a nearly normal distribution and made the data presentation comparable to that of Baker. One-way ANOVAs measured the effects of each factor across all other variables; two-way ANOVAs were conducted to detect significant interactions and strong associations between characters; multi-factorial ANOVAs were performed to measure the effect of each class variable independent of the others and to corroborate associations between characters suggested by the two-way ANOVAs. One-way ANOVAs revealed a statistically significant effect of all ecological and taxonomic factors on seed mass, with the exception of native vs. alien status. Seed mass variance was accounted for as follows: family, 30%; life history, 22%; habitat, 8%; water/light category, 5%; onset of flowering, 5%; and duration of flowering, 4%. The smallest seeds were produced by the Scrophulariaceae and the largest by the Fabaceae, Liliaceae, and Rosaceae. The largest seeded species lived in closed habitats: wooded dunes, thickets, and wet dunes. Small-seeded species were associated with open habitats: wet dunes, aquatic habitats, marshes, and streamsides. Light availability was a better predictor of relative seed mass than was inferred water availability. The strong effect of life history on seed mass was due primarily to the extremely large seeds produced by trees. Significant differences in seed mass were not detected among life forms producing seeds of intermediate mass (seeds produced by annuals, biennials, perennials, shrubs, small trees, and vines were statistically indistinguishable). Early flowering and flowering of short duration were associated with the production of large seeds. Two-way ANOVAs detected eight significant two-way interactions: family @? native vs. alien status, family @? life history, family @? onset of flowering, habitat @? life history, water/light category @? life history, water/light category @? native vs. alien status, life history @? duration of flowering, and onset of flowering @? duration of flowering. These were further evaluated to determine the source of the interaction. Multi-factorial ANOVAs provided measurements of the effects of one class variable on seed mass while all other variables were controlled statistically. The statistical effect on seed mass of each variable independent of the others was much lower than in the one-way ANOVAs. Seed mass variance was explained independently by each variable as follows: family, 13%; life history, 13%; habitat, 4%; water/light category, 3%; onset of flowering, 1%; and duration of flowering, 1%. Two strong associations were detected in these ANOVAs: an association between family and habitat, and between life history and onset of flowering. Although the effects of ecological and life history characters on seed mass evaluated in this study were highly statistically significant, the R^2 values associated with these effects were quite low. For example, habitat accounted for only 4% of the variance in seed mass independent of the other effects measured. This suggests that at the geographic scale investigated in this study, there is no primary habitat-specific ecological attribute that determines the seed mass of a habitat's component species. Seed mass of a species is determined by a combination of its phylogeny, life history, phenology, and ecological attributes, including variables not measured in this study. Even the most complete ANOVAs (including effects due to all variables measured) accounted for no >44% of the total variance in seed mass among species. The results of this study parallel previous comparative works that have demonstrated associations between seed mass and life form or habitat type. Seed mass does segregate among species occupying distinct habitats, but this relationship is due largely to associations among taxonomic family, life form, and habitat.
10.2307/2657144|The aim of this research was to analyze the effects of increased N or P availability, increased air temperature, and decreased light intensity on wet sedge tundra in northern Alaska. Nutrient availability was increased for 6-9 growing seasons, using N and P fertilizers in factorial experiments at three separate field sites. Air temperature was increased for six growing seasons, using plastic greenhouses at two sites, both with and without N + P fertilizer. Light intensity (photosynthetically active photon flux) was reduced by 50% for six growing seasons at the same two sites, using optically neutral shade cloth. Responses of wet sedge tundra to these treatments were documented as changes in vegetation biomass, N mass, and P mass, changes in whole-system CO
10.2307/1942448|Two multivariate techniques for evaluation of ring-width and climatic relationships are described. One technique employs multiple regression on principal components of climate. Response functions are obtained which express in mathematical form the relative effect of monthly temperature and monthly precipitation during a 14-month period on ring-width variations. Response functions are calculated for 127 coniferous tree sites in western North America. The other technique is a cluster analysis which is used to identify similarities among the response functions and classify them on the basis of their similarities and differences. Higher-than-average precipitation most commonly results in higher-than-average growth, though on cold sites the effects of precipitation during the cooler parts of the year are sometimes lacking or inverse. Precipitation is directly related to growth throughout the entire year for 32% of the sites, representing many that have been used in dendrochronology. In the remaining 68% of the sites the effects of precipitation vary from season to season. Temperature is most commonly inversely related to ring width during autumn, spring, and summer. Inverse relationships occur in mid-winter for trees on the warmest sites and on certain high-altitude sites. However temperature effects are often direct ones, especially during winter and for many sites at high altitudes, high latitudes, or north-facing slopes. Site factors appear most responsible for variations in the growth responses. Aspect of slope appears to be the most critical, followed by altitude and latitude. There are fewer differences between species than between factors of the site, although certain species such as bristlecone pine have a more or less unique growth response. Some speculations are offered on the effects of the sites and their microenvironments on biological processes linking the climatic variables and growth. The variety of ring-width responses to variations in climatic factors suggest that more physiological study of trees on extreme sites may reveal unique growth-environment relationships that have not been observed on more optimum sites. The median percent of tree-growth variance accounted for by climate is approximately 60 to 65%. With such a high percentage of variation related to climate, ring-width variability, if adequately sampled, dated, and calibrated with climate, can be used successfully to estimate past climate, even though all linkages of cause and effect have not been demonstrated by physiological research. It is proposed for reconstruction of past climate that many ring-width chronologies be used with diverse tree-growth responses, because the differences can be handled by multivariate techniques and provide more information on various climatic factors than chronologies with the same growth response. It is also proposed that response functions have applications in the modeling of productivity in forest ecosystem. They can be used to ascertain the effects of climatic variation on tree growth and to help in extrapolating information gathered in one area to other tree sites.
10.2307/1942339|Amphibolurus inermis occurs throughout Australia except for the eastern third of the continent, the north-central coast, and the southwestern tip. It inhabits sandy soils. Body temperature rises in the morning, levels off and remains rather constant between 1000 and 1600 hr, and falls after 1600 hr. Thermoregulation involves changes in location and posture, color change, basking, burrowing, shade-seeking, and panting. The level of temperature maintained depends on geographic locality and immediate weather conditions and may depart widely from the temperature preferred in a laboratory gradient. The relative importance of specific behavioral responses varies with locality; burrowing and shade-seeking may be interchangeable. Amphibolurus inermis functions either as a thigmotherm or a heliotherm depending on local conditions and time of day. It is one of the most heat-resistant species known; the mean body temperature which causes loss of coordination is 48.5@? C, and the lethal temperature is 49.3@? C. Because of the extreme environments it occupies, A. inermis has narrow minimum thermal safety margins even though it has high temperature tolerances. Burrows tend to be located near thermoregulatory perches. When the sun-perch and the shade-perch are close together, an individual may have only one burrow; if the perches are further apart, a burrow will usually be located near each. If widely separated, auxiliary burrows may occur between the two types of perches. Burrows sometimes become too hot to serve in thermoregulation. Active individuals are found at all hours between sunrise and sunset in summer. However, individuals may seek shelter at midday. In winter the activity period is restricted to a few hours at midday. It is suggested that preferred temperatures may shift during the day, but that these levels cannot always be maintained. Head temperatures may be regulated more precisely than those of the body.
10.2307/1942646|Population dynamics of the intertidal sea anemones Anthopleura elegantissima (Brandt) and A. xanthogrammica (Brandt) were investigated by long-term monitoring and experimental manipulation of populations in Washington State. Sizes of individual A. xanthogrammica and A. elegantissima fluctuated seasonally, increasing during the spring and early summer and shrinking or reaching a pleateau the rest of the year. Data from marked individual A. xanthogrammica showed that adults (@>6.5 cm) moved very little and may persist for at least several decades. Only 3 of 160 mapped adult anemones disappeared over 2 yr. Juveniles moved more often and thus appeared and disappeared at much higher rates. Growth of A. xanthogrammica in control and experimental removal areas was compared by a new technique. One-year growth increments were used to compare growth in each size class by analysis of variance and were also used to plot long-term growth trajectories and expected reproductive success (habitat suitability, Fretwell 1972). Growth was much more rapid in areas with experimentally reduced density than in control areas. The control area with the lowest density had the greatest individual growth rates. Differences in growth trajectories and expected reproductive success between control areas and the experimental areas indicate that adult density affects growth of most size classes. The mechanism is probably both noninterference competition for prey and direct interference by adult tentacle crowns blocking capture by smaller individuals. Clonal aggregations are formed by longitudinal fission of A. elegantissima. (A. xanthogrammica never reproduce asexually.) Monitored clonal aggregations of A. elegantissima showed that fission rate is greatest during the fall and winter, averaging 0.17 divisions per clonal individual per year in all areas. Only the larger individuals in each clone divided and a single individual never divided more than once in a given year. Rate of fission was independent of mean individual size within clones. Therefore, clones in more suitable habitats produced larger individuals and thus had greater gonad (offspring) production. Clones in the high intertidal were composed of very small individuals, had the lowest rates of fission, and were clearly occupying a marginal habitat.
10.2307/2937146|Papilio canadensis encounters shorter, cooler summers in interior Alaska than in northern Michigan: average thermal sums are 583 vs. 985 Celsius degree-days (10@?C base); mean daily temperature is 14.4 vs. 18.8@?. The temperature physiology of P. canadensis could be evolutionarily conserved, or the species may be a composite of regionally adapted populations. We evaluated these hypotheses by comparing the developmental physiology of P. canadensis from Alaska and Michigan across a range of temperatures in the laboratory and field. Higher temperatures generally resulted in more rapid larval development, but the effects varied with insect population and host. At low temperatures (12@?), Alaskan larvae grew faster than Michigan larvae (fifth instars doubled their fresh mass in 5.8 vs. 9.1 d), primarily due to 40% higher consumption rates. At high temperatures (30@?), Alaskan larvae grew slower, faster, or the same as Michigan larvae, depending upon host. Effects of host quality were greatest at high temperatures. Elevated respiratory expenses in Alaskan larvae (35% higher than Michigan larvae) made them especially sensitive to host quality at high temperatures. Dry matter digestibility and nitrogen use efficiency differed across hosts, but not between populations or across temperatures. Molting accounted for 35-51% of development time. Alaskan larvae completed their fifth molt faster than Michigan larvae at 12@? (11.8 vs. 17.8 d), but not at 30@? (3.1 vs. 2.9 d). In both populations, molt was more temperature sensitive than growth at low temperatures (Q"1"0 of 5.65 vs. 3.04 from 12 to 18@?), but less temperature sensitive at high temperatures (Q"1"0 of 1.60 vs. 2.06 from 18 to 30@?). Survival differed across temperatures, but not between populations. Under ideal basking conditions, larvae in the field were able to elevate body temperatures @?10@? above ambient, but such conditions were rare in Alaska and larvae were usually near ambient temperature. Alaskan larvae were no better than Michigan larvae at selecting high radiation microsites or converting solar radiation into heat. Growth rates of Alaskan larvae were the same in the field and laboratory when fed the same foliage and exposed to the same mean daily air temperature. We incorporated P. canadensis temperature responses into a life history development model, then used a 48-yr climatic record to evaluate the fitness contributions of apparent adaptations to Alaskan summers. On a good host, at Alaskan temperatures, Alaskan P. canadensis had an estimated fitness 3.0 times greater than Michigan P. canadensis. Furthermore, the Michigan population was predicted to go extinct in 31 of 48 yr at Alaskan temperatures. Changes in growth temperature responses made the greatest contribution to enhanced fitness in Alaska, followed by increased mass of neonates, enhanced molting abilities at low temperatures, and a reduced size threshold for pupation. Analysis of fitness trade-offs suggested that extreme summers have been more important than average summers in shaping adaptive responses. Regional adaptation to climate allows P. canadensis to maintain a broader geographic distribution than would otherwise be possible, but northern distribution limits are probably still constrained by summer temperatures.
10.2307/2937264|Under controlled experimental conditions, the influences of light and temperature on the growth and metabolism of Egeria densa Planch, Hydrilla verticillata Royle, and Myriophyllum spicatum L. were comparatively examined. Light was controlled at six levels ranging between 5 and 75% of full sunlight at solar noon. Water temperature was controlled at five levels ranging between 16@? and 32@?C. Growth considerations included morphology, biomass, and nutrition. Photosynthesis, respiration, and CO"2 compensation points were determined to evaluate physiological differences in plant growth as affected by the experimental ranges of temperature and light. External morphology in these species was significantly affected by the different experimental light and temperature conditions. Both low light and high temperature promoted extensive shoot elongation and associated canopy formation. Biomass production and carbon metabolism in all species were influenced more by temperature than by light. Each of the species demonstrated metabolic acclimation to light over a broad range. Conversely, the macrophyte species considered here were not strictly capable of acclimating to temperature. Growth rate and the seasonal progression of senescence were interrelated in these species. Higher temperatures stimulated growth and promoted a compression of the growth cycle. The relationship between photosynthesis and respiration (P:R) was appreciably reduced by senescence, but the CO"2 compensation point did not reflect this condition. In the species examined, CO"2 compensation points decreased with increasing temperature, suggesting adaptations to low free CO"2 levels in the environment. Latitudinal differences in integral seasonal temperature, in relation to species-specific ranges of thermal tolerance, appear to be important in influencing the geographical distribution of the species considered here. Light may be the primary determinant of their depth distribution, but its importance in this regard could be somewhat diminished by their significant abilities to extend to the water surface under low light conditions.
27806877|Resource pulses are infrequent, large-magnitude, and short-duration events of increased resource availability. They include a diverse set of extreme events in a wide range of ecosystems, but identifying general patterns among the diversity of pulsed resource phenomena in nature remains an important challenge. Here we present a meta-analysis of resource pulseconsumer interactions that addresses four key questions: (1) Which characteristics of pulsed resources best predict their effects on consumers? (2) Which characteristics of consumers best predict their responses to resource pulses? (3) How do the effects of resource pulses differ in different ecosystems? (4) What are the indirect effects of resource pulses in communities? To investigate these questions, we built a data set of diverse pulsed resourceconsumer interactions from around the world, developed metrics to compare the effects of resource pulses across disparate systems, and conducted multilevel regression analyses to examine the manner in which variation in the characteristics of resource pulseconsumer interactions affects important aspects of consumer responses. Resource pulse magnitude, resource trophic level, resource pulse duration, ecosystem type and subtype, consumer response mechanisms, and consumer body mass were found to be key explanatory factors predicting the magnitude, duration, and timing of consumer responses. Larger consumers showed more persistent responses to resource pulses, and reproductive responses were more persistent than aggregative responses. Aquatic systems showed shorter temporal lags between peaks of resource availability and consumer response compared to terrestrial systems, and temporal lags were also shorter for smaller consumers compared to larger consumers. The magnitude of consumer responses relative to their resource pulses was generally smaller for the direct consumers of primary resource pulses, compared to consumers at greater trophic distances from the initial resource pulse. In specific systems, this data set showed both attenuating and amplifying indirect effects. We consider the mechanistic processes behind these patterns and their implications for the ecology of resource pulses.
10.2307/1942442|Surficial sediments from 77 Danish lakes were processed for chydorid remains for the purpose of establishing relationships of species occurrence to lake type. A total of 35 species of chydorids was recovered; 3 species were new for Denmark, while 3 others previously reported from Danish lakes were not found. The lakes sampled were subjectively grouped according to physical-chemical measurements into 1 of 3 groups--clear-water lakes (1), ponds and bogs (2) and polluted, clear-water lakes (3). Correlations between chydorids and chemical-physical properties of lakes, plus evidence from relative abundances and frequencies of each species found in each lake type, suggests that most species prefer those waters best termed oligotrophic and dystrophic. The exceptions of Chydorus sphaericus and Alona rectangula which, when found in high percentages, typify eutrophic or polluted sites. These data correlated well with species diversity values--high values were found in clear-water lakes (1) and ponds and bogs (2), while low diversities were typical of polluted sites (3). These data suggested that species diversity is a function of available habitat (rooted aquatics), and hence to a large extent the distribution of most chydorid species within a region is determined by habitat diversity (structure). Grane Langso (an oligotrophic, Jutlandic lake) and Esrom S@? (an eutrophic, Zealandic lake) were selected for paleo-studies because of their differences, which resulted in contrasting lake development. Postglacial gyttja sediment in Grane Langso extended to 431 cm below the mud-water surface interface. Pollen zonation, and a radiocarbon date of @+9500 BP placed the lowest organic deposits into Pre-Boreal time. Two chydorid species were important in Grane Langso Late-glacial sands underlying the gyttja (Alona affinis and Chydorus sphaericus). Chydorid faunas developed through the Pre-Boreal and early Boreal; by late Boreal chydorid populations were most diverse, and presumably stable. A decrease in species diversity during Atlantic time was due to unstable conditions within the lake, evidenced by deposition of sand; Chydorus piger was abundant during this period. Sub-Boreal organic deposits overlay the Atlantic sands. High percentages of Pleuroxus during mid-Sub-Boreal were attributed to man's activity, and a lower water level. The most recent change in chydorid assemblages occurred within the past 100 yrs; this change was increased percentages of Alonella nana--a species normally associated with low alkalinities in Denmark. Postglacial calcareous gyttja deposits in Esrom So extended to 380 cm below the mud water interface. Calcareous clay extended from 381-840 cm, and glacial till occurred below 840 cm. Pollen preservation was poor in Esrom, but the lowermost gyttja was probably Pre-Boreal (Zone IV). No pollen counts were attributable to Zone VI. Few chydorid remains were found in Late-glacial clays, and extensive development of populations began in Pre-Boreal time (370 cm). Chydorid assemblages characteristic of discriminant Group 1 were present throughout most of the postglacial deposits; benthic species were prevalent during most of the lake's history. Littoral forms did increase in Sub-Boreal time, but by Sub-Atlantic chydorid assemblages were again dominated by benthic groups. In Esrom, postglacial chydorid fluctuations were dampened by its morphological and chemical characteristics, while Grane Langso fossil assemblages were sensitive to minor variations in the lake's environs. Pioneer chydorid species in northern Europe are Chydorus sphaericus, Alona affinis, A. quadrangularis, Acroperus harpae, and Alonella nana.
10.2307/1942589|Four co-occurring species of goldenrod bloom at different times with varying degrees of overlap; in order of peak flowering they are Solidago juncea, S. graminifolia, S. canadensis, and S. nemoralis. All four species are self-incompatible and require an insect vector for successful seed-set. First, the relationship between flowering time and seed-set of individual plants of these four species was determined. All four species of Solidago had significant differences in both the percentage of filled seeds and the total seed-set of clones that flowered at different times. Early-flowering clones had lower seed-set than did late-flowering clones in S. canadensis, S. graminifolia, and S. nemoralis. In contrast, early-flowering ramets of S. juncea had significantly greater seed-set than did late-flowering ramets. Secondly, the underlying factors limiting seed-set were investigated by observational and experimental techniques, in order to lend insight into the processes which can select for flowering time in natural plant populations. The abundance of pollinators on goldenrods and other plant species and the abundance of flower predators were monitored over the season. Experimental hand-pollinations were performed on individual plants of each species over the entire flowering season, to determine if seed-set was limited by the amount of pollen reaching stigmas or by factors intrinsic to individual plants which flowered at different times. Apis mellifera, the introduced honeybee, is the major pollinator of goldenrods in this system. The major factor influencing the relative abundances of honeybees on these four species of goldenrod seemed to be overlap among the flowering periods of the goldenrods and those of several introduced plant species. Apis began visiting goldenrods at a point when the abundance of flowers in the weedy flora had declined greatly. The flowering period of S. juncea overlapped almost entirely with the flowering periods of several species in the weedy summer flora. This appears to explain the lack of Apis visits to S. juncea, which was visited only by small, native bees and beetles. However, the results from experimental pollinations suggest that seed production of S. juncea was at its potential maximum throughout the flowering season. In early-flowering clones of S. graminifolia, the natural seed-set was significantly lower (by 57%) than the maximum potential seed-set determined from experimental pollinations, but in late-flowering clones there was no differences between actual and potential seed-set. Of the reduction from potential seed-set in early-flowering clones, the low frequency of honeybee visits was estimated to account for most of the loss, and flower predation by the blister beetles, Epicauta pennsylvanica, accounted for the remainder. In S. canadensis, the seed-set of both hand-pollinated and control flowers was greater in late-relative to early-flowering clones of S. canadensis (i.e., late-flowering clones had greater physiological potential for seed production). The differences in the seed-set of clones flowering at were different times were due to physiological or microenvironmental differences among clones. There was also some degree of pollen limitation of seed-set (17-34% of the potential maximum seed-set) at all times. Again, pollen limitation of seed-set was due mostly to pollinators, as opposed to flower predators. In S. nemoralis, the late-flowering clones had significantly higher seed-set than early-flowering clones, but maximum potential seed-set was not determined for this species. Such differences in seed-set could select for flowering time, given the right combination of heritability and morphological or life history tradeoffs. The selection would not necessarily lead to further divergence in flowering phenology among these congeners, but rather for later flowering in S. graminifolia, S. canadensis, and S. nemoralis and for earlier flowering in S. juncea.
27646026|Competition theory has put forward three contrasting hypotheses: Competition for nutrients and light may lead to (i) stable coexistence of species, (ii) alternative stable states, or (iii) competitive exclusion. This paper presents a detailed investigation of competition among phytoplankton species to test these three different hypotheses. First, we developed a competition model combining competition for nutrients and light. Next, we ran monoculture experiments in phosphorus-limited and light-limited chemostats to estimate the model parameters for five freshwater phytoplankton species. Finally, we tested the model predictions in competition experiments, using phosphorus levels ranging from oligotrophic to eutrophic conditions. The population dynamics in the competition experiments were all in agreement with the model predictions. This demonstrates that competition for nutrients and light can be accurately predicted over a wide range of productivities. The experiments revealed that the intensity of competition remained constant or even decreased with increasing nutrient supply. Contrary to expectation, there were no trade-offs between competitive abilities for phosphorus and light. Species that were strong competitors for phosphorus were strong competitors for light as well. Hence, we found neither stable coexistence nor alternative stable states. All competition experiments led to competitive exclusion. Furthermore, the physiological traits of the species indicated that, if one would find trade-offs in competitive abilities, competition for phosphorus and light would lead to alternative stable states rather than to stable coexistence. These results suggest that stable coexistence mediated by competition for phosphorus and light is rare, and hence an unlikely explanation for the high biodiversity commonly found in phytoplankton communities.
10.2307/1943058|Three types of diel vertical migration behavior were expressed within a fjord population of the calanoid copepod Pseudocalanus newmani: (1) reverse migration (nocturnal descent), (2) normal migration (nocturnal ascent), and (3) no detectable migration. Reverse migration by P. newmani occurred in all three study years, but only at a deep (185 m) station at times of year when normally migrating predatory zooplankton (the copepod Euchaeta elongata, the chaetognath Sagitta elegans, and the omnivorous euphausiid Euphausia pacifica) were abundant. A predator-exclusion @'natural experiment@' tested the hypothesis that the reverse migration is a predator avoidance mechanism: at a shallow (55 m) station within the same fjord, large predatory zooplankton were absent or reduced markedly in abundance. In conditions of reduced nocturnal predation by predatory zooplankton, no reverse migration by P. newmani was detected on any of 11 cruises, consistent with the hypothesis. Instead, at the shallow station, where diurnal predation by planktivorous fish was of increased importance, normal diel vertical migration by P. newmani was observed on several occasions. No migration was detectable at either the deep station or the shallow station at times of year of low feeding activity of predators in surface waters. The predominant migration behavior (reverse, normal, or no migration) varied depending whether the primary source of mortality was predation by nocturnally feeding zooplankton or visually hunting planktivorous fish, and appeared unrelated to resource distributions or temperature gradients. The relative advantage of the three migration behaviors is explored with theoretical life table analyses. Re-examination of the demographic advantage hypothesis proposed by McLaren (1974) illustrates that vertical migration across a thermocline carries a fitness cost, not a benefit. The realized rate of increase of a migrant population of Pseudocalanus is found to be lower than a nonmigrant population for all combinations of surface temperatures, positive thermal stratification, and ratios of mortality for early and late developmental stages. However, avoidance of predators by vertical migrants reverses the outcome of this analysis. Predator avoidance by Pseudocalanus, accompanied by reduced mortality rates, confers a fitness advantage upon a population that migrates across a thermocline. Remarkably small reductions in mortality rates (as little as 12%) confer this advantage, whether migrants avoid nonvisually hunting predatory zooplankton by night or visually hunting planktivorous fish by day. The behavioral variation documented here confirms that diel vertical migration is dynamic rather than a fixed, invariant behavioral trait within a population. In environments where predation pressure and other factors vary through time, studies of limited scope and short duration are unlikely to illuminate the ultimate causes for diel vertical migration. The heritability of the vertical migration trait is unclear. The different phenotypic responses reflected within this single populations of P. newmani may reflect altered behavior of individuals. Alternatively, this behavioral variation may represent a balanced polymorphism maintained by differential mortality of genotypes experiencing selection pressures that vary through time.
43187597|The cause of population cycles is a common question in ecology, and one especially puzzling case is the cycles over the past century in populations of sockeye salmon, Oncorhyncus nerka. Some populations of this semelparous species in British Columbia, Canada, exhibit a phenomenon termed cyclic dominance: every four years there is a dominant cohort of primarily four-year-old spawners, orders of magnitude more abundant than other cohorts, producing a distinctive four-year cycle. In some populations, these cycles stop, start, or shift phase. We used a stochastic age-structured model to investigate the conditions allowing cycles and the events that could cause them to move in and out of cyclic dominance. We first defined cyclic dominance as high values of cyclicity, the fraction of time the population is cyclic, and dominance, the difference in abundance between the dominant cohort and the other three cohorts. We then used simulations to determine the values of (1) relative population persistence (i.e., proximity to collapse), (2) variability in survival, (3) variability in growth, and (4) spread in spawning age distribution that led to the observed levels of cyclic dominance in 18 stocks from the Fraser River, British Columbia, and nine stocks from Bristol Bay, Alaska, USA. Our simulations produced a range of dynamics similar to those observed in real stocks, from noncyclic to intermittent cycles to extremely consistent cyclic-dominant cycles. We found that cyclicity and dominance were most likely to be high under conditions of low population persistence, high variability in survival, and narrow age structure. Populations could be driven into cyclic-dominant behavior by unusually large perturbations in survival, but not in individual growth rate. Because this triggering mechanism is stochastic, populations may exist under conditions enabling cycles for a substantial time without displaying cyclic dominance, which is consistent with observations from real stocks. The association between cyclic dominance and low population persistence is of some concern for management. Also, the dependence of cyclic variability on intrinsic population dynamics (albeit stochastically driven) should be taken into account when assessing whether statistically independent fluctuations of stocks produce a biodiversity portfolio effect.
20787439|Despite a long history of the study of tropical forests, uncertainty about the importance of different ecological processes in shaping tropical tree species distributions persists. Trait- and phylogenetic-based tests of community assembly provide a powerful way to detect community assembly processes but have seldom been applied to the same community. Both methods are well suited to testing how the relative importance of different ecological processes changes with spatial scale. Here we apply both methods to the Yasun Forest Dynamics Plot, a 25-ha Amazonian forest with >1100 tree species. We found evidence for habitat filtering from both trait and phylogenetic methods from small (25 m) to intermediate (10 000 m) spatial scales. Trait-based methods detected even spacing of strategies, a pattern consistent with niche partitioning or enemy-mediated density dependence, at smaller spatial scales (25-400 m). Simulation modeling of community assembly processes suggests that low statistical power to detect even spacing of traits at larger spatial scales may contribute to the observed patterns. Trait and phylogenetic methods tended to identify the same areas of the forest as being subject to habitat filtering. Phylogenetic community tests, which are far less data-intensive than trait-based methods, captured much of the same filtering patterns detected by trait-based methods but often failed to detect even-spacing patterns apparent in trait data. Taken together, it appears that both habitat associations and niche differentiation shape species co-occurrence patterns in one of the most diverse forests in the world at a range of small and intermediate spatial scales.
10.2307/1943017|The distribution of ^1^3^7Cs, ^9^0Sr, ^2^3^8Pu, ^2^3^9^, ^2^4^0Pu, ^2^4^1Am and ^2^4^4Cm was studied in the biotic and abiotic components of an abandoned reactor cooling impoundment, Pond B. The impoundment is located at the United States Department of Energy's Savannah River Plant in South Carolina, USA. It received radioactive contaminants via cooling water discharges from R Reactor from September 1961 to June 1964. The radionuclide inventories were estimated in water, seston, sediments, and biotic components after 20 yr of equilibration. Chemical, physical, and biological relationships to the radionuclide distribution patterns were investigated. Biotic components contained some of the highest radionuclide concentration ratios observed to date. However, most of the radioactivity resides in sediments. The principal mechanisms of loss from the system are radioactive decay and periodic outflow of water and suspended materials; biotic export and seepage appear to be inconsequential. Strontium-90 was much more mobile in the system than the other radionuclides. Aquatic macrophytes dominated the biotic component radionuclide inventories and their dynamics exert a strong influence on the spatial distribution and turnover of radioactivity in the ecosystem. Pond B supports a diverse and productive flora and fauna. Cleanup of the system is not indicated. Use of Pond B for recreation is feasible with adequate attention to monitoring and radiological health guidelines.
10.2307/2937049|Nitrogen and phosphorus pool sizes, distribution, and cycling rates were described and compared for six different ecosystem types occurring along a single toposequence in northern Alaska. The toposequence was located on a series of old floodplains of the Sagavanirktok River, in the northern foothills of the Brooks Range. From tussock tundra in the uplands, the toposequence passed through a relatively dry hilltop heath zone, a hillslope shrub/lupine/Cassiope zone, a footslope Equisetum zone, a wet sedge tundra, and a riparian shrub zone. A late-melting snowbank covered the hillslope site in early June of each year, and the sites consistently varied in soil temperature, soil moisture, thaw depth, and the seasonal pattern of soil thaw. The standing stocks of N, P, and C in soils of these six ecosystem types varied dramatically but not monotonically along the toposequence, as did the turnover rates of these elements. Several measures were used in comparisons of N and P availability, including soil solution concentrations, in situ accumulation on ion-exchange resins, and levels of KCI-extractable N and P. Annual rates of net N mineralization were assayed using a buried bag method, and ecosystem respiration was measured by trapping CO"2 in soda lime [NaOH + Ca (OH)"2]. Soil P pools were characterized by sequential extraction methods into four major pools, including loosely bound P, Al- and Fe-bound P, primary mineral P, and organic P. Both N and P availability were low in all six ecosystems when compared with temperate forests or wetlands. Among ecosystems, however, there was considerable variation in the relative availability of N vs. P, and in the apparent relative importance of nitrate as a nitrogen source.
27646158|Flightlessness in previously volant birds is taxonomically widespread and thought to occur when the costs of having a functional flight apparatus outweigh the benefits. Loss of the ability to fly relaxes body mass constraints which can be particularly advantageous in divers, because underwater performance correlates with mass. The Galpagos Cormorant Phalacrocorax harrisi is flightless and the largest of its 27-member genus. Here, the loss of flight, and consequent reduced foraging range, could be compensated by enhanced dive performance. Over three years, 46 Galpagos Cormorants were successfully equipped with timedepthtemperature recorders, and 30 birds with GPS recorders during the breeding season. Birds foraged at a mean of 690 m from the nest and just 230 m from the nearest coast, confirming an extremely limited foraging range during the breeding season and corresponding increased potential for intraspecific competition. Although the maximum recorded dive depth of 73 m tallied with the species body mass, >90% of dives were conducted in water <15 m deep. The heavier males foraged in different areas and dived longer and deeper than females, which exposed males to colder water. Consideration of how plumage insulation decreases with depth indicates that diving males should lose 30% more heat than females, although this may be partially compensated by their lower surface area: volume ratio. A simple model highlights how energy expenditure from swimming underwater due to buoyancy and energy lost as heat have opposing trends with increasing depth, leading to the prediction of an optimum foraging depth defined by the volume of plumage air and water temperature. This has ramifications for all diving seabirds. It is proposed that the reduction in wing size, together with energy-expensive flight musculature, allows the Galpagos Cormorant to be more efficient at shallow depths than other seabirds, but only in warm equatorial waters. The high prey density and predictability of benthic prey in defined areas of the Galpagos can be particularly well exploited by this flightless species, with its limited foraging range, but the Galpagos Cormorant is unlikely to be able to accommodate much change in environmental conditions.
4539049|Recent size-structured cannibalistic models point to the importance of the energy gain by cannibals and also show that this gain may result in the emergence of giant individuals. We use a combination of a 10-year field study of a perch (Perca fluviatilis) population and quantitative within-season modeling of individual and population-level dynamics to investigate which mechanisms are most likely to drive the dynamics of the studied perch population. We focused on three main aspects to explain observed discrepancies between earlier model predictions and data: (1) introduction of more than one shared resource between cannibals and victims, (2) whether or not several victim age cohorts are necessary to allow giant growth, and (3) the intensity of inter-cohort competition between young-of-the-year (YOY) perch and 1-yr-old perch. At the start of the study period, the perch population was dominated by "stunted" perch individuals, and recruitment of perch to an age of 1-yr-old was negligible. Following a major death in adult perch, strong recruitments of perch to 1-yr-old were thereafter observed for a number of years. As 1-yr-olds these successful recruiters subsequently starved to death due to competition with the new YOY. The few surviving adult perch accelerated substantially in growth and became "giants." At the end of the study period, the perch population moved back to the situation with stunted individuals. There was a high agreement between observed diets of cannibalistic perch and those predicted by the model for both the stunted and the giant phases. Analyses of growth rates showed that cannibalistic perch could become giants on a diet of YOY perch only, but that a supplement with the second shared resource (macroinvertebrates) was needed to reach the observed sizes. Modeling of growth and diet in the giant phase showed an exploitative competitive effect of YOY perch on 1-yr-old perch, but a restriction in habitat use of 1-yr-old perch had to be assumed to yield the observed growth rate and diet. The resource dynamics of zooplankton and macroinvertebrates were both accurately predicted by the model. Also, YOY perch mortality was accurately predicted and, furthermore, suggested that one of the trawling methods used may underestimate the number of YOY perch when they increase in size. We conclude that the presence of a second shared resource and the restricted habitat use and absence of cannibalistic consumption by 1-yr-old perch individuals are two important mechanisms to explain the discrepancy between model predictions and data. Our results also point to the fact that that the dynamics observed may be explained by complex dynamics not involving the presence of a giant and dwarf cycle.
27646096|Although extreme climatic events may have profound effects on ecological systems, there is a marked lack of information on adaptation to such events. In this study, we employed reciprocal transplantation on both a geographic scale (experimental sites 200 km apart in different parts of the range of the study species) and a local landscape scale (reciprocal populations separated by 28 km) to study the performance of different chemical forms of Thymus vulgaris which naturally occur in different climatic environments. Survival and growth were analyzed in relation to long-term and contemporary climate data in natural populations and our experimental sites. The reciprocal transplants involved a period of six years for clones transplanted in experimental field sites on a geographic scale and three years for seedlings transplanted among natural populations at the local landscape level. Cloned transplants on a geographic scale produced evidence for local adaptation to either summer drought, primarily following the extreme summer drought of 2003, or severe early-winter freezing. Chemotypes that show high survival after intense summer drought showed poor survival after intense early-winter freezing and vice versa, results which directly accord with climate data for their original sites. On the local landscape scale, we found further evidence for local adaptation to summer drought but not to winter freezing (probably due to the absence of extreme freezing during the three years of this study). Future modifications to the occurrence and frequency of extreme climate events may have a profound influence on the spatial distribution of thyme chemotypes.
10.2307/1942491|Experimental manipulations of densities of the predatory salamanders Notophthalmus viridescens dorsalis and Ambystoma tigrinum significantly altered relative abundances of six species of larval anurans in 22 artificial-pond communities. One competitively inferior anuran, Hyla crucifer, was virtually excluded from predator-free control communities but survived best and occurred at greater relative abundances in communities containing high densities of Notophthalmus. A second competitively inferior species, Hyla gratiosa, survived best at intermediate intensities of predation. Each of four competitively superior species (Scaphiopus holbrooki, Rana sphenocephala, Bufo terrestris, and Hyla chrysocelis) exhibited inverse relationships between relative abundance and Notophthalmus density. Ambystoma eliminated the entire anuran guild from tank communities and had a much greater per capita impact on anuran guild composition than did Notophthalmus. In most anuran species, maximum and mean mass at metamorphosis were positively correlated with predator density, suggesting an inverse relationship between intensities of predation and competition among tadpoles. Low growth rates of most anuran species in the absence of predators were correlated with high abundances of superior competitors. These results indicate that predators mediated interspecific competition among larval anurans. Intermediate values of Notophthalmus density maximized the total production of anuran metamorph biomass. Biomass of metamorphs of each species varied in a species-specific manner with predation. The propensity of Rana sphenocephala for overwintering as tadpoles following a season of growth was also related to predator density. Laboratory feeding experiments demonstrated that at least two competitively superior anurans, Scaphiopus holbrooki and Bufo terrestris, were especially vulnerable to predation by salamanders. This suggested that Notophthalmus may preferentially remove competitively superior anurans from pond communities, allowing competitively inferior anurans to persist and to complete development successfully at moderate to high predator densities.
10.2307/3100035|Increasing demands on arid and semiarid ecosystems, which comprise one-third of Earth's terrestrial environment, create an urgent need to understand their biodiversity, function, and mechanisms of change. Sagebrush (Artemisia) steppe, the largest semiarid vegetation type in North America, is endangered because of losses to agriculture, excessive grazing, and invasive species. Establishment in 1950 of what is now designated as the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (southeastern Idaho, USA) created the largest existing reserve of this extensive vegetation type. We used cover, density, and frequency data for vascular plants sampled on 79 permanent plots nine times during 45 years to (1) assess long-term changes in abundance and distribution of major species and life forms, (2) assess changes in species richness and plot similarity, and (3) test the hypotheses that plant cover and stability of cover are positively associated with species richness and that invasibility is inversely related to native plant cover and richness. From 1933 through 1957 the area was subject to severe drought, with annual precipitation exceeding the long-term mean only four times. Cover of shrubs plus perennial grasses was 18% in 1950, and the vegetation was heavily dominated by sagebrush. Perennial grass cover was only 0.5%. With elevated precipitation after 1957, shrub cover increased to 25% by 1965, and by 1975 cover of perennial grasses had increased 13-fold. Subsequent fluctuations in cover did not track precipitation closely. Cover and density of major species were often out of phase, and correlation analyses indicated lags of 2-5 yr in responses of species or functional groups to precipitation. Aggregate species richness of the area has not changed appreciably, but richness of shrubs, perennial grasses, and forbs per plot steadily increased from 1950 to 1995. Vegetative heterogeneity also increased, with mean similarity among plots declining from 72% to 40%. Plots having higher species richness tended to maintain higher levels of cover and to vary less in cover relative to their mean level, indicating links between species richness and function. Abundance of nonnative species was negatively correlated with cover, but not with richness of native species. Thus, adequate cover of native species can render these semiarid communities more resistant to invasion. Maintaining richness and cover of native species should be a high management priority for these ecosystems.
10.2307/2937039|In primary succession following deglaciation at Glacier Bay, Alaska, we tested the hypothesis that the major effect of initial nitrogen-fixing colonizers is to facilitate establishment of late-successional dominants and that other possible causes of successional change (e.g., life history factors governing seed rain and competitive interactions among species) need not be invoked. Environment changed dramatically through the first 200 yr of succession. Soil organic matter increased 10-fold in the upper mineral soil with corresponding increases in soil moisture, total nitrogen (N), and capacity to support plant growth and declines in bulk density, pH, and total phosphorus (P). Plant growth in pioneer soils tended to be simultaneously limited by both N and P, as well as by unknown factors (perhaps lack of mycorrhizae), whereas only P limited growth in older soils. Light availability to seedlings declined through succession. Early-successional species (Epilobium latifolium, Dryas drummondii) had smaller seeds, younger age at first reproduction, shorter life-span, and shorter height at maturity than did mid-successional (alder, Alnus sinuata) and late-successional species (sitka spruce, Picea sitchensis). Seed rain of alder and spruce was negligible in the pioneer stage, increased prior to the stage in which a species was dominant, and was greatest in the stage in which a species dominated. Vegetation in each successional stage inhibited germination and initial establishment of sown alder and spruce seeds (except a tendency of the @'black-crust@') algal/microbial community in the pioneer stage to enhance survivorship). Removal of the surface litter layer generally enhanced germination and survivorship, particularly of alder. Comparisons of germination in the greenhouse and the field indicated that climatic or indirect vegetation effects (e.g., differential seed predation) and allelopathy also reduced germination and establishment in vegetated communities. Naturally occurring spruce seedlings grew most rapidly in the Dryas and alder stages and most slowly in the spruce stage. Similarly, growth of spruce seedlings transplanted into each successional stage was facilitated by the Dryas (nonsignificantly) and alder stages but inhibited by the spruce stage, relative to earlier successional stages. Facilitation of growth of natural and transplanted spruce seedlings by Dryas and alder stages was associated with higher N and P uptake and tissue nutrient concentrations, whereas nutrient uptake and concentration in spruce seedlings declined in the spruce stage. By contrast, transplanted alder seedlings grew rapidly and accumulated most nutrients in the pioneer stage and were strongly inhibited by subsequent stages. The facilitative effect of Dryas and alder comes primarily from inputs of organic matter and associated N. Addition of alder litter stimulated nutrient uptake and growth of transplanted spruce seedlings in the pioneer and Dryas stages, whereas shading had no effect on growth of spruce seedlings. Root trenching and planting of spruce near isolated alders indicated that, although the net effect of alder is facilitative, alder also inhibits growth of spruce seedlings through competition for soil resources. Strong root competition also occurs in the spruce stage. Alder competitively inhibits Dryas, primarily by shading but also through the physical and allelopathic effects of its litter. In general, both at Glacier Bay and elsewhere, life history traits determine the pattern of succession. Changes in competitive balance accompanying successional changes in environment provide the mechanism for changes in species dominance. Initial site conditions (and facilitation, where present) influence the rate of change and final state of community composition and productivity. We conclude that no single factor or mechanism fully accounts for primary succession at Glacier Bay.
23047067|Root turnover is fastest in the finest roots of the root system (first root order). Additionally, tissue chemistry varies among even the finest root orders and between white roots and older, pigmented roots. Yet the effects of pigmentation and order on root decomposition have rarely been examined. We separated the first four root orders (all <1 mm) of four temperate tree species into three classes: white first- and second-order roots; pigmented first- and second-order roots; and pigmented third- and fourth-order roots. Roots were enclosed in litterbags and buried under their own and under a common species canopy in a 34-year-old common garden in Poland. When comparing decomposition of different root orders over 36 months, pigmented third- and fourth-order roots with a higher C:N ratio decomposed more rapidly, losing 2040% of their mass, than pigmented first- and second-order roots, which lost no more than 20%. When comparing decomposition of roots of different levels of pigmentation within the same root order over 14 months, pigmented (older) first- and second-order roots lost 10% of their mass, while white (younger) first- and second-order roots lost 30%. In contrast to root mass loss, root N content declined more rapidly in the first- and second-order roots than in third- and fourth-order roots. In higher-order roots, N increased in the first 10 months from 110% to nearly 150% of initial N content, depending on species; by the end of the study N content had returned to initial levels. These findings suggest that, in plant communities where root mortality is primarily of pigmented first- and second-order roots, microbial decomposition may be slower than estimates derived from bulk fine-root litterbag experiments, which typically contain at least four root orders. Thus, a more mechanistic understanding of root decomposition and its contribution to ecosystem carbon and nutrient dynamics requires a fundamental shift in experimental methods that stratifies root samples for decomposition along more functionally based criteria such as root order and pigmentation, which parallel the markedly different longevities of these different root classes.
10.2307/2657175|Historical and biogeographic contexts can play important, yet sometimes overlooked, roles in determining structure of local communities. In particular, few examinations of historical influences on patterns of species richness and relative abundances in tropical communities have been conducted. In part, that gap in our knowledge has been caused by a paucity of data on tropical communities, even for relatively well-studied taxa such as birds. In the Neotropics, only two sites, a 97-ha plot in lowland Peru and a 100-ha plot in French Guiana, have been inventoried on a spatial scale sufficient to estimate population densities for a majority of resident bird species. Results from those studies revealed extremely similar species richness, community biomass, and patterns of relative abundance. A third site in lowland Panama was originally censused in 1968-1969 and has often been compared with many other tropical and temperate sites. Results from Panama suggested an exceptionally different community structure from that observed at the Amazonian sites. Informative comparisons among sites have been hampered, however, by differences in sampling protocols. The Panama site was sampled on a much smaller spatial scale (2 ha) than the two Amazonian sites. To improve comparisons, we censused a 104-ha area (the Limbo plot) encompassing the original 2-ha Panama study area and used several census methods, including those used at the Amazonian sites. As expected, spatial scale had a strong effect on estimates of species richness. We detected 252 species on the Limbo plot, compared with 161 detected on the original 2-ha area. Estimates of total individual birds per 100 ha were similar, but estimates from the original study were based on densities measured for one-third fewer species than we measured on our larger study area. Of the 53 species for which both Panama studies estimated population densities, a significant number of estimates were higher in the original study. Thus, the small spatial scale of the original study apparently led to inflated density estimates. The primary cause of disparities appeared to result from undersampling in the smaller plot of many species with patchy distributions and large territory sizes. Compared with Amazonian communities, the Panama community had far fewer rare species. Although 33% of species in Amazonian sites had densities of 1 pair/100 ha, only 17% were equally rare in Panama. Furthermore, eight species in Panama were, by tropical standards, "superabundant," attaining densities as high as 212 breeding individuals/100 ha; the most abundant species in Amazonia barely reached one-third of that number. In total, those eight species accounted for 36% of all individuals at Limbo. The median abundance at Limbo was 7 pairs/100 ha, vs. 2.5 pairs/100 ha in Amazonia. Consequently, the total number of birds on the Limbo study area was nearly twice that found in Amazonia, despite species richness being only three-fourths as great. We conclude, first, that spatial scale has indeed had an important effect on the characterization of the Panama bird community. The intrinsically patchy distributions of most forest-dwelling bird species raise the need for large-scale censuses. Second, the Panama community, compared with the two Amazonian sites, has a fundamentally different organization; it hosts nearly twice as many individual birds and is distinctly less dominated by rarity. Similar patterns of community structure appear to be present within tree and mammal communities as well. Therefore, results from the Amazonian studies cannot be generalized to all lowland Neotropical communities. We attribute differences in community structure primarily to differing biogeographic histories. The lower species richness and the greater number of total birds present in Panama appear to derive, at least in part, from two important factors: an area effect linked to the location of Panama on a narrow isthmus, and the repeated history of disturbance on multiple temporal scales in Panama.
10.2307/1942484|Mechanisms of ecological succession were investigated by field experiments in a rocky intertidal algal community in southern California. The study site was algal-dominated boulder field in the low intertidal zone. The major form of natural disturbance which clears space in this system is the overturning of boulders by wave action. Algal populations recolonize cleared surfaces either through vegetative regrowth of surviving individuals or by recruitment from spores. Boulders which are experimentally cleared and concrete blocks are colonized within the first month by a mat of the green alga, Ulva. In the fall and winter of the first year after clearing, several species of perennial red algae including Gelidium coulteri, Gigartina leptorhynchos, Rhodoglossum affine, and Gigartina canaliculata colonize the surface. If there is no intervening disturbance, Gigartina canaliculata gradually dominates the community holding 60-90% of the cover after a period of 2 to 3 years. If undisturbed, this monoculture persists through vegetative reproduction, resisting invasion by all other species. During succession diversity increases initially as species colonize a bare surface but declines later as one species monopolizes the space. Several contemporary theories concerning the mechanisms of ecological succession were tested. The early successional alga, Ulva, was found to inhibit the recruitment of perennial red algae. This competition for settling space is an important feature of the successional process. Ulva is the best competitor for this space; it reproduces throughout the year and quickly becomes established on newly cleared substrates. As long as these early colonists remain healthy and undamaged, they preempt colonization by perennial red algae which have highly seasonal recruitment and slower growth. Selective grazing on Ulva by the crab, Pachygrapsus crassipes, breaks this inhibition and accelerates succession to a community of long-lived red algae. Grazing by small molluscs, especially limpets, has no long-term effect on the successional sequence. Their grazing temporarily enhances the recruitment of the barnacle, Chthamalus fissus, by clearing space in the mat of algal sporelings and diatoms which develops on recently denuded rock surfaces. Where locally abundant, middle successional red algae also slow the invasion and growth of the late successional dominant, Gigartina canaliculata. This alga replaces middle successional species because it is less susceptible to damage by desiccation and overgrowth by epiphytes. The results of this study do not support either the classical facilitation model or the tolerance (competitive) model of ecological succession. Once early colonists secure the available space/light, they resist rather than facilitate the invasion of subsequent colonists. Early colonists are not killed by direct interference competition with late successional species which grow up through their canopy; rather, early colonists can successfully inhibit the recruitment and growth of these species. Successional sequences occur because species which dominate early in a succession are more susceptible to the rigors of the physical environment and to attacks by natural enemies than late successional species. Late species colonize and grow to maturity when early species are killed and space is opened. Only late in a successional sequence, when large clearings become a mosaic of small openings, does direct competition with surrounding adult plants of late successional species contribute to the decline in cover of the remaining early species. Studies of succession in a number of terrestrial and marine communities lend support to this inhibition model.
23596908|About one-third of North America is forested. These forests are of incalculable value to human society in terms of harvested resources and ecosystem services and are sensitive to disturbance regimes. Epidemics of forest insects and diseases are the dominant sources of disturbance to North American forests. Here we review current understanding of climatic effects on the abundance of forest insects and diseases in North America, and of the ecological and socioeconomic impacts of biotic disturbances. We identified 27 insects (6 nonindigenous) and 22 diseases (9 nonindigenous) that are notable agents of disturbance in North American forests. The distribution and abundance of forest insects and pathogens respond rapidly to climatic variation due to their physiological sensitivity to temperature, high mobility, short generation times, and high reproductive potential. Additionally, climate affects tree defenses, tree tolerance, and community interactions involving enemies, competitors, and mutualists of insects and diseases. Recent research affirms the importance of milder winters, warmer growing seasons, and changes in moisture availability to the occurrence of biotic disturbances. Predictions from the first U.S. National Climate Assessment of expansions in forest disturbances from climate change have been upheld, in some cases more rapidly and dramatically than expected. Clear examples are offered by recent epidemics of spruce beetles in Alaska, mountain pine beetle in high-elevation five-needle pine forests of the Rocky Mountains, and southern pine beetle in the New Jersey Pinelands. Pathogens are less studied with respect to climate, but some are facilitated by warmer and wetter summer conditions. Changes in biotic disturbances have broad consequences for forest ecosystems and the services they provide to society. Climatic effects on forest insect and disease outbreaks may foster further changes in climate by influencing the exchange of carbon, water, and energy between forests and the atmosphere. Climate-induced changes in forest productivity and disturbance create opportunities as well as vulnerabilities (e.g., increases in productivity in many areas, and probably decreases in disturbance risks in some areas). There is a critical need to better understand and predict the interactions among climate, forest productivity, forest disturbance, and the socioeconomic relations between forests and people.
10.2307/1942329|A population of Great Britain pocket mice, Perognathus parvus, was live-trapped in 1967-72 on a 2.7-ha study area in south-central Washington to determine their density, reproductive performance, longevity, movements, and home range, as well as their functional role in northern shrub-steppe habitat. During 41,310 trap-nights we captured 15,386 mice representing seven species: Perognathus parvus, Peromyscus maniculatus, Onychomys leucogaster, Reighrodontomys megalotis, Lagurus curtatus, Microtus montanus, and Sylvilagus nuttallii. Pocket mice accounted for 91%, deer mice 8%, and the remaining species only 1% of the captures. Most pocket mice remained inactive underground between December and February. Adult @M @M became trappable at an average date of 26 March; @V @V emerged about 18 April. Once active, adults remained trappable for an average of 60 days in years of average-to-excellent food production, and for 90 days in years of poor production. Sex ratios of trappable animals differed significantly from 1:1 in about half the sampling periods, and usually favored adult @M @M. Males had scrotal testes for an average of 4 mo, with the highest proportion in April. The first signs of estrus were observed in April, the first palpable pregnancies in May, and the last pregnant @V @V usually in July. In years of high food availability adult @V @V averaged 2 litters; in average years they had 1.1 litters; and in poor years, only one @V in three became pregnant. The average size of three litters found in live-traps was 3.7. In 1969, a year of excellent food production, juveniles from early litters bred during late summer. Subadults were first trapped in June for an average of 40-70 days. Survival from weaning to the following breeding season ranged between 56%-58% (1967, 1970) and 80% (1968); 17%-19% survived to the 3rd yr; and 2%-3% survived to the 4th yr. The highest overwintering success was in juveniles born during the year of lowest precipitation, poorest food supply, and reduced reproduction. Differential survival affected the age distribution of animals during the breeding season. One-year-olds dominated the breeding populations in 1968 and 1970; but in 1969 only 55% of the breeders were born the preceding year. The age distribution had little apparent effect on the reproductive success of the population. Perognathus parvus ceased aboveground activities between late summer and autumn depending upon environmental conditions, sex, and age. Population size was estimated by means of the Jolly-Seber stochastic model which helped interpret population responses when components of the population were not trappable. The peak autumnal population varied about a mean of 320 animals with only a twofold variation between the estimates for the lowest (206, 1968) and the highest (437, 1969) years. Within years the greatest variation was a fivefold increase in numbers observed between the early breeding season and fall population peak of 1969. The estimated summer population size showed a high degree of correlation with the amount of precipitation falling between October and April, precipitation that largely stimulated growth and reproduction in vegetation, which in turn affected the small-mammal population. Adult @M @M had larger home ranges (1,560-4,005 m^2) than @V @V (508-2,301 m^2); adults had larger home ranges than subadults. Home ranges were largest in years of average-to-excellent food production and moderate population densities; they were smallest either in years of poor resources and moderate population densities or in years of average resources but high densities. Centers of home ranges shifted little between years, indicating a high degree of stability and spatial partitioning of the area. This population of Perognathus parvus displayed a regular sex-related timing of commencement of activities, a delay in appearance of subadults, and a relatively brief duration of annual activity aboveground. Collation of the data emphashized that the seemingly dense populations of pocket mice were in fact well spaced temporally throughout the year, a well as spatially, with a minimum of overlap between sexes and, more importantly, between age groups.
10.2307/2937122|Patterns and rates of generation of CO"2 and CH"4 by aerobic and anaerobic soil respiration are a significant gap in knowledge of floodplain carbon dynamics. Gaseous and hydrologic exports of CO"2 and CH"4 from the forested floodplain of the Ogeechee River in Georgia, USA, were studied from July 1987 to September 1989. Net emissions to the atmosphere were measured with short (10-20 min) static chamber incubations. CO"2 emissions were highly seasonal, with largest rates during summer, and were strongly correlated with soil temperatures. Annual total CO"2 emissions were similar in both years of the study, and averaged 919 g/m^2. The contribution of live root respiration to this total was estimated with in situ incubations of attached roots excavated from the soil. Over 55% of the total CO"2 flux appeared to arise from live roots rather than mineralization of soil organic matter. Significant atmospheric CH"4 fluxes were found only at flooded sites. CH"4 emissions were highly variable, with high rates of release of methane carbon (up to 271 mg@?m^-^2@?d^-^1) occurring irregularly during the warmer months. The temperature effect on CH"4 emissions appeared to be a step function. No significant CH"4 emissions occurred when soil temperatures were below 15@?C; during warmer periods emission rates were generally positive, but showed no additional correlation with temperature. This effect is hypothesized to represent an interaction of the rates of oxygen consumption and replenishment in the soil. Spatial variability in CH"4 emissions was also large. Over 90% of the total floodplain CH"4 emissions came from the 30% of the floodplain that was most frequently inundated. Annual total fluxes of CH"4 carbon from low habitats averaged 17 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1. Methane oxidation rates were estimated in floodplain surface waters by in situ bottle incubations. Roughly half of the CH"4 that entered the water column was consumed without reaching the atmosphere. Hydrologic exports of CO"2 and CH"4 via surface and groundwater were small, representing @?1-2% of total export for both species, and were much less important than fluvial exports of organic carbon. Overall, floodplain detrital carbon processing was dominated by aerobic respiration and gaseous CO"2 export, although methanogenesis did constitute up to 20% of total soil respiration at some sites.
10.2307/2937025|Changes in pH over the past 12 000 yr in Duck Pond in the Cape Cod National Seashore were reconstructed using a diatom-pH transfer function. The reconstructed pH suggested that the pond has been acid for its entire history with a mean reconstructed pH of 5.3 @+ 0.3 (standard error of the predictive equation @+ 0.5). There was a brief period during the late-glacial (at @?11 500 BP) of higher pH of @?6, possibly caused by increased windiness and erosion (inferred from concurrent pollen and sediment changes indicative of an open spruce-Hudsonia parkland), increased leaching of cations from outwash sands of the drainage basin, and/or increased instability of the water levels during lake development. The reconstructed pH history indicates that Duck Pond has become more acid recently (with a mean pH of 5.1 @+ 0.1 for the past 150 yr) although the pH has varied both up and down throughout the Holocene with acidity as low as the present at other times in the past 12 000 yr. The significance of these changes in reconstructed pH is problematic because the pH variations lower in the core remain within the standard error of the equation and primarily reflect a long-term naturally acid ecosystem. This finding illustrates the need for more local and regional long-term lake pH histories so that naturally acid lakes can be distinguished from anthropogenically degraded lakes and ecologically sound management decisions can be made. In the pre-European-settlement levels of the core, correlations between charcoal and alkaline Fragilaria diatoms suggest that forest fires in the drainage basin may have affected pond pH. Correlations between charcoal and acid diatoms in post-European-settlement sediments suggest an effect on pond pH from recent increase in windborne industrial acids. Negative correlation between diploxyon Pinus species and the reconstructed pH and positive correlation between haploxylon Pinus and the alkaliphilic diatoms suggest that vegetation changes, which also reflect the climate and fire history of the region, have also affected pH of the pond.
10.2307/2657215|Responses of zooplankton, pelagic primary producers, planktonic bacteria, and CO<sub>2</sub> exchange with the atmosphere were measured in four lakes with contrasting food webs under a range of nutrient enrichments during a seven-year period. Prior to enrichment, food webs were manipulated to create contrasts between piscivore dominance and planktivore dominance. Nutrient enrichments of inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus exhibited ratios of N:P > 17:1, by atoms, to maintain P limitation. An unmanipulated reference lake, Paul Lake, revealed baseline variability but showed no trends that could confound the interpretation of changes in the nearby manipulated lakes. Herbivorous zooplankton of West Long Lake (piscivorous fishes) were large-bodied Daphnia spp., in contrast to the small-bodied grazers that predominated in Peter Lake (planktivorous fishes). At comparable levels of nutrient enrichment, Peter Lake's areal chlorophyll and areal primary production rates exceeded those of West Long Lake by factors of approximately three and six, respectively. Grazers suppressed pelagic primary producers in West Long Lake, relative to Peter Lake, even when nutrient input rates were so high that soluble reactive phosphorus accumulated in the epilimnions of both lakes during summer. Peter Lake also had higher bacterial production (but not biomass) than West Long Lake. Hydrologic changes that accompanied manipulation of East Long Lake caused concentrations of colored dissolved organic carbon to increase, leading to considerable variability in fish and zooplankton populations. Both trophic cascades and water color appeared to inhibit the response of primary producers to nutrients in East Long Lake. Carbon dioxide was discharged to the atmosphere by Paul Lake in all years and by the other lakes prior to nutrient addition. During nutrient addition, only Peter Lake consistently absorbed CO<sub>2</sub> from the atmosphere, due to high rates of carbon fixation by primary producers. In contrast, CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations of West Long Lake shifted to near-atmospheric levels, and net fluxes were near zero, while East Long Lake continued to discharge CO<sub>2</sub> to the atmosphere.
10.2307/1943014|Myxoma virus was released into Australia to control the introduced European rabbit, Oryctolagus cuniculus. Within a few years after introduction, the virulence of the virus had declined to an intermediate level, while the resistance of field rabbits and increased sharply. In the nearly 40 yr since the disease was introduced, host resistance has continued to increase, while viral virulence has only recently begun to show signs of counter-increases in some areas. The two questions of interest are thus: Is this system in a coevolutionary arms race (Dawkins and Krebs 1979); that is, will both host and pathogen continue to evolve antagonistically? Will the virus continue to control the rabbit in the future? We present a simulation model based loosely on previous host--pathogen models (Anderson and May 1979), but with detailed accounting of the virus titer in infected hosts, and using realistic estimates of the demographic parameters of the rabbit, including age structure and seasonally varying reproduction. For a single virulence grade, by varying the non-disease (or @'natural@') mortality of the rabbit, the age at first reproduction of the rabbit, and the virulence grade of the virus, we explored the parameter range for which the rabbit population is controlled. For the most prevalent grades of the virus, grades IIIB and IV, the virus can control the rabbit for most realistic values of natural mortality and age at first reproduction. However, control is dependent on both natural mortality and virus virulence. Since natural mortality varies both geographically and seasonally, the usefulness of the virus may vary geographically and seasonally, and management policies must be sensitive to this variation. When competing against several virus strains that together encompass the complete range of virulence seen in the field, a strain of grade IV virulence competitively excludes strains of all other grades. This competitively dominant grade is close to the most prevalent virulence grades seen in the field. We discuss possible mechanisms of coexistence, including local competitive exclusion with global persistence, variability in host resistance, high mutation rates, and trade-offs between within-host and between-host competitive ability. By examining the effects of flea transmission efficiency, we are able to show that, contrary to commonly held belief, whatever effect fleas have upon the outcome of selection on virulence cannot be due to differences in transmission efficiency between fleas and mosquitoes. Finally, by including host resistance, we improve our prediction of the most prevalent grade of virulence. We conclude that control of the rabbit by the virus is likely for the near future, but that until we understand the genetics of resistance in the rabbit and the relationship between resistance and virulence for different grades of virulence, for different grades of virulence, we cannot make a useful prediction of the long-term state of this system.
10.2307/2937315|Physical disturbance can be an important force at the individual, population, and community levels of organization. The effects of disturbance may differ for mobile and sessile organisms, however, because of differences in the potential for escape and postdisturbance recolonization by survivors. I used field sampling and laboratory experiments to examine how episodic movement of severely oxygen-depleted (hypoxic) bottom water into nearshore habitat in the Chesapeake Bay affects population density, recruitment, and reproduction of a mobile species--the naked goby (Gobiosoma bosc), a benthic oyster bed fish. Oxygen depletion is a common physical disturbance in freshwater, estuarine, and coastal aquatic systems. In this study, episodic hypoxia influenced mortality, size structure of the population, reproductive behavior, and spatial distribution. Intrusion of severely hypoxic water occurred in late July and early August during the 2-yr study. These intrusions coincided temporally with peak periods of recruitment, and caused the most severe drops in dissolved oxygen concentrations in deep and mid-depth areas of the oyster reef, where recruitment was highest. Laboratory experiments suggested that newly settled recruits require higher oxygen concentrations for survival than do older individuals. Field samples also indicated that these new recruits are less able to escape to more highly oxygenated shallow water refuges when an intrusion occurs. Thus, the spatial and temporal patterns of recruitment and disturbance, and physiological requirements, combine to result in extremely high mortality of new recruits during severe intrusions. In contrast to effects on new recruits, some large juveniles and adults successfully migrate inshore when oxygen levels decline. In both field samples and laboratory experiments, adult males continued to guard eggs and shelters until dissolved oxygen closely approached lethal levels. Calculations based on size-specific physiological tolerances and swimming speeds suggest that the occurrence of lethal conditions in the fluctuating environment may be more predictable to larger individuals than to new recruits. This predictability may increase the possibility of an appropriate response to low oxygen disturbances by large juveniles and adults. After the disturbance abates, surviving individuals recolonize abandoned areas. This ability of mobile animals to recolonize a disturbed area as adults or juveniles, rather than solely through reproduction, may lead to differences in postdisturbance ecological interactions and differences in selection for colonizing ability between mobile and sessile species.
4539117|We studied the organization and temporal stability of an assemblage of malaria parasites (genera Plasmodium and Haemoproteus) and their passerine avian hosts in a forested study area in southern Missouri, USA, over four years. We detected parasite infections by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of parasite DNA from host blood samples and identified parasite lineages by sequencing a part of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene. We obtained 757 blood samples from 42 host species. Prevalence of malaria parasitism judged by PCR averaged 38.6% and varied in parallel in the three most abundant host species over the four years of the study. Parasite prevalence bore a U-shaped relationship to host sample size. Prevalence was weakly positively associated with host body mass, but not with foraging stratum, nest height, nest type, plumage brightness, or sexual dichromatism. Over the sample as a whole, parasite prevalence did not vary between males and females or between hatch-year and older individuals. We differentiated 34 parasite lineages. The number of host species per lineage varied from one to eight and increased with sample size. We recovered up to 14 lineages of parasite from a single host. Three relatively common lineages in the Ozarks were found nowhere else; four others were recovered from other sites in eastern North America; and six additional well-sampled lineages were distributed in the Greater Antilles among resident island host species. Parasites that are endemic among native species of hosts on the tropical wintering grounds of Ozark birds were recovered from hatch-year birds in the Ozarks, indicating that transmission takes place on the summer breeding grounds, and consequently, that suitable vectors are present in both the temperate and tropical portions of the parasite lineage distributions. We estimate that the number of parasite lineages within a local area will approximate the number of host species and that our perception of host breadth and parasite diversity will increase for most lineages and hosts with increased sampling. Thus, host-parasite relationships in a local area, including the role of parasites in sexual selection and the evolutionary maintenance of sex, are likely to be complex, with population and evolutionary dynamics involving many actors.
10.2307/2657247|Monte Carlo simulations were conducted to evaluate robustness of four tests to detect density dependence, from series of population abundances, to the addition of sampling variance. Population abundances were generated from random walk, stochastic exponential growth, and density-dependent population models. Population abundance estimates were generated with sampling variances distributed as lognormal and constant coefficients of variation (CV) from 0.00 to 1.00. In general, when data were generated under a random walk, Type I error rates increased rapidly for Bulmer's R, Pollard et al.'s, and Dennis and Taper's tests with increasing magnitude of sampling variance for n > 5 yr and all values of process variation. Bulmer's R* test maintained a constant 5% Type I error rate for n > 5 yr and all magnitudes of sampling variance in the population abundance estimates. When abundances were generated from two stochastic exponential growth models (R = 0.05 and R = 0.10), Type I errors again increased with increasing sampling variance; magnitude of Type I error rates were higher for the slower growing population. Therefore, sampling error inflated Type I error rates, invalidating the tests, for all except Bulmer's R* test. Comparable simulations for abundance estimates generated from a density-dependent growth rate model were conducted to estimate power of the tests. Type II error rates were influenced by the relationship of initial population size to carrying capacity (K), length of time series, as well as sampling error. Given the inflated Type I error rates for all but Bulmer's R*, power was overestimated for the remaining tests, resulting in density dependence being detected more often than it existed. Population abundances of natural populations are almost exclusively estimated rather than censused, assuring sampling error. Therefore, because these tests have been shown to be either invalid when only sampling variance occurs in the population abundances (Bulmer's R, Pollard et al.'s, and Dennis and Taper's tests) or lack power (Bulmer's R* test), little justification exists for use of such tests to support or refute the hypothesis of density dependence.
10.2307/1942510|This paper analyzes the foraging behaviors of a community of insectivorous birds breeding in a high-altitude willow floodplain. The eight species belong to two guilds. Active searchers are represented by the gleaning guild (warblers): Wilsonia pusilla, dendroica petechia, and Geothlypis trichas; passive searchers are represented by the fly-catching guild (flycatchers): Empidonax oberholseri, Empidonax tralli, Empidonax difficilis, Contopus sordidulus, and Nuttallornis borealis. The paper focuses on the following general questions: (1) What are the different components, and their correlations, of foraging behavior in the eight species? (2) What are the overall adaptive syndromes associated with predatory tactics of active and passive searchers? (3) Are the predictions of several models of optimal foraging supported by the results of the present study? Adaptive syndromes (coordinated sets of characteristics, including the specific manner of resource utilization, and an array of other, related adaptations) are described for each species. Warblers forage primarily by gleaning, concentrating on stationary prey. Their velocity (average number of perches per minute) is @>10.0, their search intensity (perches visited prior to an attack) is @>5.0, and their foraging intensity (number of attacks per minute) is >1.7. They have an attack radius (mean distance from perch to prey) of <0.6m. Members of the gleaning guild may thus be characterized as active searchers (they look for prey difficult to find) but passive pursuers (they attack prey easy to catch). In addition, gleaners exhibit a narrow range of preferences in habitat structure. Flycatchers forage primarily by hovering or sallying, concentrating on prey available via aerial attack. They have both a velocity and search intensity of <4.0, and a foraging intensity of <1.8. They have attack radii ranging from 1 m to >7.5 m. Members of the fly-catching guild may thus be characterized as passive searchers (they look for prey easy to find) but active pursuers (they attack prey difficult to capture). Flycatchers show a broad range of preferences in habitat structure. For all species considered together there is an inverse correlation between body size and velocity, and a positive correlation between body size and attack radius. Three core adaptations identify the adaptive syndromes of actively and passively searching predators. Active searchers have high velocities, high search intensities, and a foraging repertoire associated with passive prey. Passive searchers have low velocities, low search intensities, and a foraging repertoire associated with active prey. Additional characteristics also differentiate the two adaptive syndromes. Search/pursuit ratios critical to numerous optimal foraging models are impossible to measure reliably in the field; thus the concept of active and passive searchers is proposed as a meaningful and readily quantifiable substitute. The data presented here exhibit poor fit with the predictions of several selected models. Predictions concerning differences in diet specialization, the extent of territorial and foraging overlap, and the prevalence of sexual dimorphism are not confirmed. In general, predictions concerning morphological size gradients are upheld; those concerning habitat specialization are confirmed if habitat is measured in structural terms, but are not supported when measured by vegetation type.
10.2307/3100046|The functional importance of higher-order predators in terrestrial ecosystems is currently an area of active inquiry. In particular, an understanding of the relative influences of prey availability and higher-order predation on predator populations is of immediate relevance to the theory of biological control of herbivorous arthropods. Biological control workers have repeatedly speculated that one cause of failure to establish predators and parasitoids in novel environments is the strong mortality imposed on released agents by higher-order predators. Nevertheless, the ability of higher-order predators to create a habitat where mortality exceeds natality (a "sink" habitat) has never been tested experimentally with a biological control agent in nature. Although in isolation the predatory lacewing Chrysoperla carnea can consistently produce strong suppression of populations of the aphid Aphis gossypii, the full community of predators when tested together exerts minimal aphid control. The age structure of Chrysoperla spp. populations in cotton fields harboring low to intermediate densities of aphid prey is characterized by a sharp drop in densities from the egg to the first larval instar; this observation is consistent with heavy mortality during either the egg or first larval stage. Egg cohorts followed under unmanipulated field conditions showed relatively high rates of successful hatch, suggesting that the vulnerable developmental stage is the young larva. Larval survival is relatively high in the absence of hemipteran predators, suggesting that prey availability is not the primary limiting factor. Depressed survival is observed in the presence of Geocoris spp., Nabis spp., and Zelus renardii, all common hemipteran predators in cotton. Predation on lacewing larvae appears to disrupt the strong top-down control of aphid populations in cotton. Chrysoperla spp. densities declined in fields harboring intermediate aphid densities when lacewing subpopulations were experimentally caged to block immigration and emigration. In one year (1993) Chrysoperla spp. densities fell to very low levels, suggesting that the field was either a true sink habitat or a pseudosink with a very low equilibrium density. In a second year (1994), densities declined to what appeared to be a lower but stable density, suggesting that the habitat was a pseudosink. Thus, in both years, declines in Chrysoperla spp. densities were observed following caging, suggesting that Chrysoperla spp. populations are spatially subsidized. Aphid prey availability and higher-order predation interacted strongly in their influence on C. carnea survival: larval survival in the presence of higher-order predators was 5.6% when prey availability was intermediate and 40.5% when prey were superabundant. Spatial heterogeneity in aphid prey densities modulates the intensity of higher-order predation and thereby appears to produce source-sink dynamics of Chrysoperla spp. in cotton fields.
10.2307/1942507|Two experiments were designed to test which hypothesis of population regulation provided the most consistent explanation of population fluctuations in the California vole. The first experiment tested the effects of spacing behavior and of initial breeding-season density on population regulation. The second experiment tested the effects of resource level, of population history, and of population substructure. A factorial design was used for each experiment. The first experiment was analyzed as two separate factors. The second experiment was analyzed with a 2 x 2 x 2 factorial analysis of variance. The results indicate that naturally occurring populations appear to be regulated by two separate but equally important mechanisms. When habitat occupation is patchy, spacing behavior dominates and densities are regulated below 200 individuals/ha. Individuals from these populations can be characterized as coming from low or early-increase phases. Survival is low due to very high dispersal losses and a moderate mortality rate. Individuals have a greater tendency to be reproductive. Males have lower masses. When habitat occupancy is more uniform, increasing overall density reduces the dispersal rate and, as a result, densities increase further. In this situation, resource limitation dominates the regulation process. Peak densities of these populations range from 500 to 800 individuals/ha. Individuals from these populations can be characterized as coming from the peak phase. Survival is high due to low dispersal losses and a moderate mortality rate. Individuals tend less to be reproductive, and males are heavier.
10.2307/1942462|Energy budgets for the wide-foraging @'arthropodivorous@' lizard Cnemidophorus tigris were constructed for the reproductive season using doubly labeled water measurements of field metabolic rate (FMR). Rates of body mass change, clutch sizes, and clutch intervals were also investigated. FMRs of both sexes (males, 298 J@?g^-^1@?d^-^1; females, 247 J@?g^-^1@?d^-^1) were greater in the reproductive season than during the postreproductive season. This was not due to differences in resting metabolism, but, instead, was due to higher activity costs during the reproductive season. Although males had significantly higher FMR than females, males and females had similar feeding rates (as reflected by water influx rates). The ratio of energy intake to expenditure was higher in females than in males. Females produced eggs but did not grow. Large males did not grow, but small 1st-yr males similar in size to females did grow. Females laid at least two consecutive clutches during a single reproductive season; clutch interval was @?25 d. Clutch size varied with time of laying (first or second clutch), female body size, and year. We compare the reproductive energetics of C. tigris and other wide-foraging Cnemidophorus with the energetics of ambush iguanids. The wide forager C. tigris and the ambusher Uta stansburiana apparently do not differ in the proportion of the energy budget devoted to reproductive production (reproductive effort, RE"p). But total reproductive effort, RE"t, which includes metabolism associated with reproduction, is much lower in Cnemidophorus tigris. Review of the literature indicates Cnemidophorus tend to lay smaller clutches and larger eggs than iguanids, but the number of eggs laid per unit time generally equals that of most iguanids. Cnemidophorus also deposit energy into their eggs at rates almost 60% higher than ambush iguanids. We consider higher rates of production in wide foragers to be permitted by their higher rates of net energy intake while foraging, compared with most ambushers. These higher rates of production in Cnemidophorus apparently allow them either to reach a larger size than iguanids of similar age at first reproduction or to be younger than iguanids of the same size at first reproduction. Life history characters may be influenced by differences in rates of production associated with different food-acquisition modes.
4539054|Accurate estimates of the diets of predators are required in many areas of ecology, but for many species current methods are imprecise, limited to the last meal, and often biased. The diversity of fatty acids and their patterns in organisms, coupled with the narrow limitations on their biosynthesis, properties of digestion in monogastric animals, and the prevalence of large storage reservoirs of lipid in many predators, led us to propose the use of quantitative fatty acid signature analysis (QFASA) to study predator diets. We present a statistical model that provides quantitative estimates of the proportions of prey species in the diets of individual predators using fatty acid signatures. We conducted simulation studies using a database of 28 prey species (n = 954 individuals) from the Scotian Shelf off eastern Canada to investigate properties of the model and to evaluate the reliability with which prey could be distinguished in the model. We then conducted experiments on grey seals (Halichoerus grypus, n = 25) and harp seals (Phoca groenlandica, n = 5) to assess quantitative characteristics of fatty acid deposition and to develop calibration coefficients for individual fatty acids to account for predator lipid metabolism. We then tested the model and calibration coefficients by estimating the diets of experimentally fed captive grey seals (n = 6, switched from herring to a mackerel/capelin diet) and mink kits (Mustela vison, n = 46, switched from milk to one of three oil-supplemented diets). The diets of all experimentally fed animals were generally well estimated using QFASA and were consistent with qualitative and quantitative expectations, provided that appropriate calibration coefficients were used. In a final case, we compared video data of foraging by individual free-ranging harbor seals (Phoca vitulina, n = 23) fitted with Crittercams and QFASA estimates of the diet of those same seals using a complex ecosystem-wide prey database. Among the 28 prey species in the database, QFASA estimated sandlance to be the dominant prey species in the diet of all seals (averaging 62% of diet), followed primarily by flounders, but also capelin and minor amounts of other species, although there was also considerable individual variability among seals. These estimates were consistent with video data showing sandlance to be the predominant prey, followed by flatfish. We conclude that QFASA provides estimates of diets for individuals at time scales that are relevant to the ecological processes affecting survival, and can be used to study diet variability within individuals over time, which will provide important opportunities rarely possible with other indirect methods. We propose that the QFASA model we have set forth will be applicable to a wide range of predators and ecosystems.
10.2307/1942366|To elucidate the causal factors responsible for diversity gradients in avian communities, avian populations were studied for 12 months in seven lowland tropical areas in the Republic of Panama and compared with populations in structurally similar habitats in Illinois. Resident (breeding) species made up 38-49% of the species on temperate areas but only 20-36% of the species in similar tropical habitats. There were significantly more species of irregular occurrence in mature tropical habitats. Tropical grassland avifaunas were no higher in diversity (number of species and information measures of diversity) than those of temperate grassland areas, but shrub and forest habitats in the tropics had higher diversity as measured by either diversity measure. The number of species was proportionately higher than the information measure because of the relatively small effect of the many rare species on the information measure. Determination of the biomass and energy relations for the bird populations showed that higher total population size in tropical areas is correlated with smaller bird size and reduced individual energy requirements. When only breeding seasons are compared, the reduced energy requirements are a result of the higher temperatures in tropical areas. Twenty-five to fifty per cent of the increased number of tropical breeding species when compared to similar temperate habitats results from the addition of a new food source, i.e., fruits. Additional species are primarily insectivores. The increase in insectivores seems to be due to additional subdivision of the resources and exploitation of a new kind of insect food, especially by species that depend on relatively large insects. Since energy requirements of tropical and temperate avifaunas are about the same, increased productivity is not related causally to the increased tropical diversity. The stratal distribution of species in several tropical (lowland and montane) and temperate avifaunas indicates that avian communities may subdivide the vegetation profile similarly throughout the world despite sharp differences in the number of species in the various areas. Bark species are about equally numerous in Panama and Illinois forest, but ground, low, medium, and high strata contain increased numbers of species in the tropics. The shift away from classical defended territories in mature tropical habitats seems to be correlated with patchy distribution of food resources in frugivores and ant-following species and reduced food abundances in other species. As a result of this food distribution, the frequency of flocking increased in shrub and forest habitats. In grassland habitats, which experience greater seasonal changes in precipitation, the spacing systems of birds are more similar to those in all temperate habitats studied. Degree of territorial defense against conspecifics and amount of interspecific flocking is inversely related to the distribution of food resources; more patchy or unpredictable food distributions, or both, result in fewer species defending exclusive territories. The major factor related to the increased diversity of tropical avifaunas seems to be the relative stability of food resources resulting from environments that are more or less @'equitable@' throughout the year. Both within- and between-habitat increases in diversity of avian communities are discussed. The stability-time hypothesis is discussed in light of available data on organization of avian communities.
10.2307/2937252|Information on primary production, decomposition, hydrology, and element cycling was integrated in annual budgets of accumulation and flux among components of a mature Douglas-fir forest ecosystem. Annual N input in precipitation and dust was 2.0 kg/ha, and an estimated 2.8 kg/ha were fixed by cyanophycophilous lichens in the canopy. Annual N loss to groundwater was 1.5 kg/ha. N appeared to be accumulating in the ecosystem. An annual decrease of ~ 2.8 kg/ha in vegetation was offset by estimated increases of 5.0 kg/ha in fallen logs, and 2.8 kg/ha in soil organic matter. Microparticulate litterfall provided a large input of N to the forest floor (3.3 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1). Annual input of metallic cations in precipitation was only 545 eq/ha, whereas weathering input (net release of cations to solution from primary and secondary minerals) was estimated by difference at @?9000 eq/ha. Total annual loss to groundwater was 9400 eq/ha and, because of little cation accumulation, loss almost exactly balanced input. Net transfers of P were small. Total annual input was 0.5 kg/ha, total loss was 0.7 kg/ha, and net accumulation was -0.2 kg/ha. Input of elements in precipitation and dryfall was small compared with that in the eastern United States. Water chemistry profiles showed that the biologically important elements N, P, and K increased in concentration as water passed through the canopy and litter layer but decreased as water passed through the rooted part of the mineral soil. In contrast, Na increased by a factor of 20 as water passed through the rooted soil. Concentrations of all elements except Mg were lower in the stream water than in solution at 2.0-m depth in the subsoil. At our site, unlike some eastern forests, Kjeldahl N (organic N plus NH"4^+) accounted for most of the measured N in solution. Nitrate levels were low, averaging @<20 @mg/L NO"3^--N at all points in the profile. Titratable alkalinity dominated anion chemistry in the mineral soil, but in the upper parts of the water chemistry profile (precipitation, throughfall, and litter leachate) Cl^- and SO"4^= together accounted for 30-40% of the negative charge. Total return to the forest floor in litterfall was greater than that reported for other Douglas-fir stands mainly because of plentiful microparticulate forms and coarse woody debris. Leaf fall accounted for less than half of the total litterfall input of N to the forest floor. Element accumulations in coarse woody debris almost cancelled the negative net annual increments in the living vegetation compartments. Overall cycling patterns show that only the biologically limiting element, N, was tightly conserved. For other elements, losses nearly equaled or even exceeded inputs. Redistribution from old to new foliage was also more important for N, P, and K than for Ca, Mg, and Na. Solution transport processes were important for all elements and dominated the cycling patterns of biologically less important elements such as Ca and Na. Vegetation absorbed metallic cations mainly from the mineral soil. However, much N and P were absorbed by roots penetrating up to or into the litter layer. Fluxes of hydrogen ions (H^+) resulting from water flow were negligible (@<10^2 eq@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1) compared with H^+ release during carbonic acid dissociation and H^+ removal accompanying cation release in weathering (both @?10^4 eq@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1). Uptake of metallic cations by vegetation and release during decomposition exceeded uptake and release of sulfur and phosphorus anions, resulting in a net H^+ flux of @?3 x 10^3 eq@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1. An increase in acidity of the rainfall to pH 4.0 would increase H^+ input only @?3 x 10^2 eq@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1.
40385207|The concept of Selection Mosaic is central to the Geographic Mosaic Theory of Coevolution. Most information on coevolving interactions, however, comes from specialized organisms. In contrast, an accurate understanding of the effect of geographically varying evolutionary dynamics on the evolution of generalist organisms is lacking, although these kinds of organisms are the most frequent in nature. In flowering plants, pollinators and herbivores are important selective agents. In this study we investigate whether a geographic selection mosaic for floral traits in a generalist plant, Erysimum mediohispanicum (Brassicaceae), can be mediated by the interplay of mutualistic and antagonistic interacting organisms. In eight populations we quantified the selection exerted by these organisms on several plant traits. We found significant spatial variation in pollinator assemblage. In different populations, the main pollinators belonged to different functional groups (beeflies, large bees, small bees, and beetles). Damage by ungulates also varied among populations. Consequently, we found that different populations were under different selective regimes, and the traits affected by selection depended on the local interaction intensity with pollinators and mammal herbivores. Some traits, such as flower number and stalk height, were selected similarly in most populations. Other traits, such as corolla diameter and tube length, were selected only in some populations. Finally, we found divergent selection for some traits, such as corolla tube width and corolla shape, which were selected in contrasting directions in different localities. This spatial variation in selective scenarios results in populations with strong selective regimes (hot spots) intermingled with populations with weak selective regimes (cold spots). Four important outcomes emerge from the E. mediohispanicum selection mosaic. (1) Interactions with generalist organisms may produce strong selection. (2) Spatial changes in main pollinators result in divergent selection across populations. (3) Geographic mosaics depend on a balance between mutualistic and antagonistic selection. (4) Selection mosaics operate at fairly small spatial scales. These findings will surely contribute to expanding the conceptual framework of the Geographic Mosaic Theory of Coevolution.
4539098|I investigate the efficacy of the Moran effect as applied to natural population processes. The Moran effect, the correlated density-independent disturbances that bring independently oscillating local populations into synchrony, was originally conceived as an attribute of a linear model system. However, it applies only approximately to natural populations, as they are inherently nonlinear in their density-dependent structure, given that no animal has an unlimited reproductive capacity. The degree of approximation, as measured by the degree of correlation among populations involved, is shown to depend, given the density-dependent structure, on the variances of the random disturbances. In particular, if the unperturbed density-dependent process converges to an equilibrium density, approximation is good when the variances are equal among the populations involved and comparatively small, but it worsens as the variances and their differences increase. For those processes that do not converge, when unperturbed, but exhibit bounded oscillations, the degree of approximation tends to deteriorate considerably, or may practically collapse, even if the disturbances are not large in variance. A sample correlation coefficient is often spurious if the observed population processes to be correlated are highly autocorrelated and limited in length. To detect spuriousness, the density-independent disturbances must somehow be estimated from the data. Three methods (moving-average, linear regression, and nonlinear regression) are considered, and their merits and demerits are discussed. Results of the present investigation are summarized with respect to the interpretations (or diagnoses) of sample cross-correlation functions.
10.2307/2963518|The dynamics of barnacle species inhabiting the rocky intertidal zone of central California are analyzed using an advection-diffusion model for barnacle larvae coupled to a space-limited model for barnacle adults. The model explores the link between physical transport processes and the population dynamics of coastal barnacle species and inspects the hypothesis that recruitment events result from the collision of upwelling fronts with the intertidal zone. Initially, a one-dimensional model is presented that incorporates eddy diffusion, offshore advection, and an offshore reflecting boundary representing an upwelling front. Physical movement of the front, in response to fluctuating upwelling, is modeled by varying the position of the reflecting boundary. Results show analytically that populations can sustain only very low levels of offshore flow when not bounded by an offshore front, and that increased advection can cause a population to go extinct. The criterion for population viability is dependent upon the strength of advection and position of the offshore front. The one-dimensional model is subsequently extended to two dimensions to allow for the spatial distribution of both larvae and adults in a more realistic context. Recruitment patterns, adult dynamics, and larval distribution patterns are loosely based on parameters from the study area bounded between the Monterey Peninsula and Point Sur. Upwelling/relaxation events are phenomenologically incorporated into the model by varying the position of the offshore boundary and the magnitude of cross-shelf advection. The analysis shows how the interaction of advective and diffusive processes and the location of the offshore front determines the dynamics of coastal barnacle populations. The two-dimensional model represents the next step toward assimilation of time-dependent remote sensing data and/or linking to numerical circulation models.
10.2307/2937170|Changes in biomass distribution, canopy dynamics, and above- and belowground net primary production were examined in a Rocky Mountain Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii var. glauca forest in New Mexico. Nutrient and water availability were experimentally altered by: fertilization (F), irrigation (I), carbon in the form of wood chips (WC), carbon + irrigation (WC/I), and control (C). Prior to treatment, aboveground tree biomass ranged from 238 to 369 000 kg/ha, projected leaf area index (LAI) ranged from 5.4 to 8.7 m^2/m^2 and aboveground net primary production (ANPP) ranged from 9200 to 11 900 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1. Aboveground NPP was correlated positively (R^2 = 0.85) with LAI before the treatments. Canopy dynamics were strongly influenced by water and nutrient availability. For trees of similar diameter, irrigated and fertilized trees supported a significantly greater biomass of new twig and new foliage than control trees. During the 2-yr study leaf area index (LAI) increased by 5, 12, 18, and 24% in the C, I, WC/I, and F plots, respectively, and decreased by 3% in the WC plots. Stand level biomass distribution and production patterns were also affected by the availability of nutrients and water. Two years after the treatments were initiated, new foliage masses were 2400 (F), 2300 (WC/I), 2000 (I), 1900 (C), and 1800 (WC) kg/ha. In 1986, aboveground NPP was 33% greater in the F than WC treatment. Irrigation also increased ANPP. Fine root net primary production ranged from 1540 to 4200 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 and was significantly greater (P < .1) in the control than in the four treatments. BNPP comprised 46 (C), 32 (WC), 31 (I), 23 (WC/I), and 23 (F) % of total NPP. Total NPP was correlated positively with LAI (R^2 = 0.66) and ranged from 15 360 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 in the WC treatment to 21 140 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 in the F treatment. Many of the physiological relations between water or nutrient availability and production and carbon allocation reported in this study are consistent with results from studies on lowland Douglas-fir and other conifer forests in the Pacific Northwest. Collectively, these studies provide a mechanistic understanding of how water and nutrient availability govern production and carbon allocation of conifer forests in the western United States.
10.2307/2963464|The Yellowstone fires of 1988 affected >250 000 ha, creating a mosaic of burn severities across the landscape and providing an ideal opportunity to study effects of fire size and pattern on postfire succession. We asked whether vegetation responses differed between small and large burned patches within the fire-created mosaic in Yellowstone National Park (YNP) and evaluated the influence of spatial patterning on the postfire vegetation. Living vegetation in a small (1 ha), moderate (70-200 ha), and large (500-3600 ha) burned patch at each of three geographic locations was sampled annually from 1990 to 1993. Burn severity and patch size had significant effects on most biotic responses. Severely burned areas had higher cover and density of lodgepole pine seedlings, greater abundance of opportunistic species, and lower richness of vascular plant species than less severely burned areas. Larger burned patches had higher cover of tree seedlings and shrubs, greater densities of lodgepole pine seedlings and opportunistic species, and lower species richness than smaller patches. Herbaceous species present before the fires responded individually to burn severity and patch size; some were more abundant in large patches or severely burned areas, while others were more abundant in small patches or lightly burned areas. To date, dispersal into the burned areas from the surrounding unburned forest has not been an important mechanism for reestablishment of forest species. Most plant cover in burned areas consisted of resprouting survivors during the first 3 yr after the fires. A pulse of seedling establishment in 1991 suggested that local dispersal from these survivors was a dominant mechanism for reestablishment of forest herbs. Succession across much of YNP appeared to be moving toward plant communities similar to those that burned in 1988, primarily because extensive biotic residuals persisted even within very large burned areas. However, forest reestablishment remained questionable in areas of old (>400 yr) forests with low prefire serotiny. Despite significant effects of burn severity and patch size, the most important explanatory variable for most biotic responses was geographic location, particularly as related to broad-scale patterns of serotiny in Pinus contorta. We conclude that the effects of fire size and pattern were important and some may be persistent, but that these landscape-scale effects occurred within an overriding context of broader scale gradients.
10.2307/2657141|Changing the top predator in a food web often results in dramatic changes in species composition at lower trophic levels; many species are extirpated and replaced by new species in the presence of the new top predator. These shifts in species composition also often result in substantial alterations in the strengths of species interactions. However, some species appear to be little affected by these changes that cause species turnover at other positions in the food web. An example of such a difference in species responses is apparent in the distributions of coenagrionid damselflies (Odonata: Zygoptera) among permanent water bodies with and without fish as top predators. Enallagma species segregate between ponds and lakes that do and do not support fish populations, with each lake type having a characteristic Enallagma assemblage. In contrast, species of Ischnura, the sister genus to Enallagma, are common to both fish and fishless ponds and lakes. Previous research has shown that Enallagma species segregate because they are differentially vulnerable to the top predators in each lake type: dragonflies in fishless lakes and fish in fish lakes. This paper reports the results of a series of laboratory and field experiments quantifying the mortality and growth effects of interactions in the food webs surrounding Enallagma and Ischnura species in both lake types. These results are compared to determine how features of the food web change to force segregation of Enallagma species between the lake types but permit Ischnura species to inhabit both. The results of experiments conducted in a fishless lake show that damselflies are not food limited in this lake type, but that they do strongly compete via interference mechanisms. Interference effects between the genera are symmetrical. Ischnura species have substantially higher growth rates than Enallagma species under all conditions in fishless lakes. Although both Enallagma and Ischnura experience substantial mortality from predation by dragonflies (Anax and Aeshna species, the top predators in fishless lakes), these dragonflies display a significant bias towards feeding on Ischnura. Mortality rates due to dragonfly predation are not density dependent. The results of experiments done in a fish lake indicate that damselflies are food limited and thus compete for resources in fish lakes. Ischnura growth rates are also substantially higher than Enallagma species in the fish-lake system. Dragonfly species that coexist with fish (Basiaeschna and Epitheca species) do not impose significant mortality on coexisting damselflies, but they do compete for resources with the damselflies, and they may also generate feeding interference in the damselflies. Fish impose significantly higher mortality on Ischnura species than on coexisting Enallagma species, and this mortality is negatively density dependent. The coexistence of Enallagma and Ischnura species is fostered in both lake types by trade-offs in their abilities to avoid predators and to utilize resources. Native Enallagma species are better at avoiding coexisting predators in each lake type, but these abilities come at the expense of the ability to utilize resources effectively and to avoid the predator found in the other lake type. In contrast, Ischnura are better at utilizing resources in both lake types, but these abilities come at the expense of effectively avoiding both fish and dragonflies. Understanding the trade-offs faced by species at similar trophic positions within a food web is critical to predicting changes in food webs following major environmental perturbations such as changing the top predator.
10.2307/2937087|A simple regression analysis can be used to assess the response of animal density to differences in habitat quality. The same test can evaluate general predictions of habitat selection theory as well as search for differences in the shapes of habitat suitability density functions, something previous tests have been unable to do. Combined with demographic or other estimates of fitness, regression tests can provide new insights into the evolution of habitat selection. Regression and fitness tests were used to explore the pattern of density-dependent habitat use in two temperate-zone rodents. The intensity of population regulation appeared to be inversely related to a habitat's carrying capacity. Variation in density-dependent habitat choice suggests new and unexpected dispersal strategies that vary with habitat heterogeneity. The predictions of the theory are complicated when habitat quality varies independently of population density. Sweepstake fitness rewards may be reaped by animals that would previously have been assumed to have made a suboptimal habitat choice. At the level of microhabitat, habitat selection models appeared to be much less capable of predicting variation in population density. Such a relation could be due to complex and inverse relationships between microhabitat quality and carrying capacity, or it could simply reflect scaling patterns in habitat selection.
10.2307/1942998|In order to develop a model of the carbon cycle for mature slash pine (Pinus elliottii) stands in north Florida, we studied seasonal variation in leaf area index (LAI, allsided), aboveground biomass increment and litterfall, and light penetration through the forest canopy, over a 3-yr period. The primary approach to establishing monthly LAI included annual destructive analyses and monthly measurements of needle fall and elongation. Imagery from the Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) and pattern of light penetration were also used in attempts to derive less ardouous estimates; the TM imagery was most promising. LAIs ranged from 3.0 to 6.5 on control plots over the 3 yr, with repeated fertilization increasing maximum LAI by >40%. Seasonal variation was high (40%), as was variation from year to year. An average of 31% of the incident photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) penetrated the canopies annually, ranging from 18 to 42% seasonally. Seasonal light penetration could not be described using a simple application of the Beer-Lambert law, perhaps due to the highly aggregated nature of the canopies. Models incorporating more information on canopy structure are necessary to predict light penetration through slash pine stands accurately. A model of needle litterfall was derived that could account for much of the seasonal and annual variation using stand basal area and climate conditions from the spring of the previous year; this model may be useful for developing climate-driven predictions of LAI. Efficiencies of use of incoming and intercepted PAR were low compared to other forest types. Low light interception and high nutrient-use efficiencies (demonstrated in earlier studies) are important adaptive characteristics of slash pine stands to these relatively warm and nutrient-poor sites.
4134801|Numerous studies have assessed the individual effects of prey nutritional quality or chemical defenses on consumer feeding behavior. However, little is known about how these traits interact to affect consumer feeding and performance. We tested the separate and interactive effects of prey chemical defenses and nutritional quality on the feeding behavior and fitness of six sympatric crustacean mesograzers. Natural concentrations of diterpene alcohols (dictyols) from the brown alga Dictyota menstrualis were incorporated, or not incorporated, into lower quality and higher quality foods to create artificial diets mimicking prey of variable value and defense. Five amphipods (Ampithoe longimana, A. valida, Cymadusa compta, Gammarus mucronatus, and Elasmopus levis) and one isopod (Paracerceis caudata), representing a continuum of closely to distantly related organisms, were fed intact algae or lower and higher quality diets containing or lacking dictyols. All six mesograzers preferred the green alga Enteromorpha intestinalis to the dictyol producing alga Dictyota menstrualis. In assays allowing consumers to choose between simultaneously available foods, dictyols deterred feeding by all five amphipods, but not the isopod; this occurred for both lower and higher quality foods. In no-choice assays, where consumers were confined with only one of our four treatment diets, effects on feeding became more complex. Nutritional quality alone affected feeding by five of the six species. These grazers compensated for lower quality by increasing consumption. Dictyols suppressed feeding for four of the six species. More interestingly, there were significant dictyol x quality interactions for three species. Dictyols decreased feeding more when placed in lower quality foods than higher quality foods. Two amphipods deterred by dictyols in the choice assays readily consumed dictyol-containing foods in no-choice situations and suffered few negative effects of doing so. Although all amphipods were deterred by dictyols in choice assays, dictyols decreased fitness (survivorship, growth, or reproduction) for only four of the five species. These effects included large and immediate decreases in survivorship, dramatic effects on reproduction, and modest effects on female growth. Dictyols enhanced survivorship of the isopod. Thus, the effects of secondary metabolites on feeding in choice situations vs. fitness in long-term assays were inconsistent. For three amphipods, certain effects of food quality, dictyols, or their interaction were detected only for females. In general, negative effects of dictyols on fitness were greater in lower than in higher quality foods, suggesting that prey nutritional value may counteract the effects of defensive metabolites. For example, when G. mucronatus consumed dictyols in lower quality foods, mortality was >80% by day 5; for dictyols in higher quality foods, 80% mortality took 28 days to develop. Lower quality foods alone significantly decreased growth for the isopod, three of the amphipods, and the females of a fourth amphipod, concomitantly reducing fecundity for four of the five amphipods studied. The effects of both chemical defenses and nutritional quality were unrelated to consumer phylogeny; responses of congeners varied as much, or more, than responses of more distantly related consumers. Understanding mechanisms and consequences of food selection requires that the interactive effects of both chemical defenses and prey nutritional characteristics be considered explicitly.
10.2307/2963511|The foraging location, diving behavior, dietary composition, and feeding rates of female Emperor Penguins (Aptenodytes forsteri) from the Auster and Taylor Glacier colonies in Antarctica were investigated during the 1993 austral winter. The study was conducted between late May and early August, when male emperors remain at the colonies to incubate eggs and females forage at sea for self-maintenance. During winter, two satellite-tracked penguins from Auster foraged  100 km northeast of the colony in open water 200-500 m deep, over the outer continental shelf and shelf slope. Ten Auster and four Taylor Glacier penguins that carried time-depth recorders took  8 d to reach the ice edge, spent 50-60 d at sea foraging, and took 4 d to return across the fast ice to the colony. The females occasionally huddled together to minimize heat loss while in transit to the ice edge and between foraging days. The penguins foraged on 93.2% of their days at sea and rested for the remainder. On each foraging day, penguins usually entered the water just after dawn and averaged 4.71 h in the water before exiting at dusk. The hourly dive rate was constant throughout winter, but the daily dive rate increased as day length increased, suggesting that day length is a primary determinant of hunting effort. Penguins exhibited behavior indicative of foraging on 47% of their dives, the remainder being travel or search dives. Penguins made, on average, 26 foraging dives/d. Females from Auster targeted prey at water depths of 20-70 m and 100-150 m, whereas Taylor Glacier birds targeted prey at 10-70 m, 250-300 m, and 330-400 m, suggesting between-colony differences in prey distribution. The stomach contents of 17 females returning to Auster to brood their chicks were dominated by pelagic prey species: Antarctic krill (Euphausia superba, 70% by mass) and Antarctic silverfish (Pleuragramma antarcticum, 13% by mass). Food consumption rates during winter for five penguins from both colonies were similar and averaged 62.6  5.8 g kg
10.2307/2657171|We documented patterns of surface heating associated with chaparral fire to characterize fundamental scale variation in the intensity of this stand-replacing disturbance. To test how this variation may influence community structure, we studied its effect on the soil seed bank and the distribution of seedlings and resprouts that emerged after fire. To evaluate the long-term significance of initial patterns, we monitored vegetation development for 4-5 yr, thereby encompassing the dynamic portion of the chaparral fire cycle. We studied two stands on level uniform terrain before, during, and after fall fires. Stands were dominated by chamise (Adenostoma fasciculatum), a postfire seeder/sprouter. Nonsprouting Arctostaphylos and Ceanothus spp. were also present. Preburn vegetation, seed populations, soil heating, and postburn plant growth were analyzed along transects of contiguous 1-m
10.2307/2657166|Predation and disturbance have been well studied in intertidal communities. However, the impact of vertebrate predators, particularly waterfowl, has been only infrequently determined in long-term intertidal studies. Using predator exclusion cages and simulated abiotic disturbance, I studied the direct and indirect effects of predation by Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima) on an intertidal mussel bed community in Passamaquoddy Bay, New Brunswick, Canada. Eiders fed heavily on blue mussels (Mytilus edulis), the dominant invertebrate present, reducing their abundance in "+duck" (exposed to predation) relative to "-duck" (exclosure) plots by nearly 50% within eight months of initiation of the experiment. Based on counts and estimated consumption rates, eiders appeared to be responsible for most predation observed in this system. Although ducks fed heavily on the dominant intertidal invertebrate, they had little effect on species diversity or richness in the community. However, relative abundance of the most common invertebrates did vary. In particular, exclusion of eiders led to an increase in abundance of dogwhelks (Nucella lapillus) one year into the experiment. Whelks, in turn, fed heavily on mussels under cages and obscured the longer-term effect of ducks in the system. This indirect effect appears to be an example of asymmetric exploitation competition, with ducks influencing the food supply of whelks, but whelks having little effect on ducks. When ducks were excluded, whelks were released from this competition and acted as compensating predators. No other indirect effects developed following duck exclusion, presumably due to the increased whelk effect. Disturbance, in contrast, did lead to an increase in species diversity, which later returned to predisturbance levels as the community recovered. Predation delayed the recovery of disturbed sites, because ducks began feeding in these plots before mussel abundance had completely rebounded. Disturbance, while initially deterring predation somewhat, ultimately allowed the effects of predators to persist longer. This interaction of predation and disturbance resulted from compensatory growth of mussels under exclosures in disturbed sites. Mussels protected from eider predation grew quickly after disturbance and rapidly became larger than the preferred prey for whelks. As a consequence, whelks did not feed as heavily on mussels in disturbed sites as in undisturbed sites, where more mussels were of the preferred size, and the observed effect of ducks on mussel biomass persisted. This experiment demonstrates that eiders were significant, and, probably, keystone predators in this system. Eiders directly reduced abundance of mussels, thereby indirectly increasing whelk density in plots where ducks were excluded. Compensatory predation by whelks following duck exclusion blocked other potential indirect effects, thus preventing eiders from having more widespread effects in the system. Such compensatory predation may act to stabilize communities and evidently can occur in relatively simple systems as well as the more species-rich communities with which it is usually associated.
20787448|Quantifying the relative impacts of top-down vs. bottom-up control of ecosystems remains a controversial issue, with debate often focusing on the perennial question of how predators affect prey densities. To assess predator impacts, we performed a worldwide meta-analysis of field experiments in which the densities of terrestrial vertebrate predators were manipulated and the responses of their terrestrial vertebrate prey were measured. Our results show that predation indeed limits prey populations, as prey densities change substantially after predator manipulations. The main determinant of the result of an experiment was the efficiency of predator manipulation. Positive impacts of predator manipulation appeared to increase with duration of the experiment for non-cyclic prey, while the opposite was true for cyclic prey. In addition, predator manipulation showed a large positive impact on cyclic prey at low prey densities, but had no obvious impact at peak prey densities. As prey population densities generally respond predictably to predator manipulations, we suggest that control of introduced vertebrate predators can be used to effectively conserve and manage native wildlife. However, care should be taken when controlling native predators, especially apex species, owing to their importance as strong interactors and the biodiversity value of their habitats. We discuss gaps in our knowledge of predatorprey relationships and methodological issues related to manipulation experiments. An important guideline for future studies is that adequate monitoring of predator numbers before and during the experiment is the only way to ensure that observed responses in prey populations are actually caused by changes in predation impacts.
10.2307/2937164|The intertidal zone of wave-swept rocky shores is characterized by high velocities and exceedingly rapid accelerations. The resulting hydrodynamic forces (drag, lift, and the accelerational force) have been hypothesized both to set an upper limit to the size to which wave-swept organisms can grow and to establish an optimal size at which reproductive output is maximized. This proposition has been applied previously to intertidal animals that grow isometrically, in which case the accelerational force is the primary scaling factor that constrains size. In contrast, it has been thought that the size of wave-swept algae is limited by the interaction of drag alone with these plants' allometric pattern of growth. Here we report empirical measurements of drag and accelerational force in three common species of intertidal algae (Gigartina leptorhynchos, Pelvetiopsis limitata, and Iridaea flaccida). The drag coefficients for these species decrease with increased water velocity, as is typical for flexible organisms. For two of these species, this decline in drag coefficient is dramatic, leading to small drag forces with concomitant low drag-induced mortality at plant sizes near those observed in the field. However, all three species have surprisingly large inertia coefficients, suggesting that these plants experience large accelerational forces in surf-zone flows. Preliminary calculations show that these accelerational forces combine with drag to act as a size-dependent agent of mortality, constraining the size of these algae. This study further models the interplay between size-dependent survivorship and reproductive ability to predict the size at which reproductive output peaks. This @'optimal size@' depends on the strength distribution and morphology of the algal species and on the flow regime characteristic of a particular site. This study shows that the optimal size predicted for G. leptorhynchos, calculated using velocities and accelerations typical of the moderately protected location where this species was collected, closely matches its observed mean size. Similarly, the predicted optimal sizes of P. limitata and I. flaccida at the exposed site where these plants were sampled also match their mean observed sizes. These data, although preliminary, suggest that mechanical factors (in particular the accelerational force) may be important in limiting the size of intertidal macroalgae and that attention solely to biological constraints may be inappropriate.
10.2307/1942539|Understory fruit and fruit-eating birds were censused monthly for a year in gaps, intact forest, and second-growth sites of a lowland Costa Rican rain forest. Both fruits and birds displayed significant seasonal variation. Peak fruit abundance corresponded with peak fruit-eating bird abundance. Fruits were most abundant in the mid-to-late rainy season (August-January). Crop sizes were larger on second-growth plants than on either gap or intact forest plants. Also, fruit was much more common in second growth than in gaps and more common in gaps than in intact forest. Fruit-eating birds followed the same general patterns of spatial and temporal variation. They were significantly most abundant in second growth, significantly least abundant in intact forest, and most common from October to January. A large increase in the frugivore population in October was due to an influx of temperate and altitudinal migrants. In addition, populations of some resident frugivore species increased concurrently, suggesting altitudinal migration in some of these species as well. The two most common understory frugivores molted during the period of fruit high and bred during the period of fruit low. I suggest that insect abundance may be more important than fruit abundance in determining breeding cycles of these birds. Given the extent of spatial and temporal variation in fruit and frugivore abundance, and the apparent tracking of fruit resources by birds, large areas of diverse habitats are probably necessary for the long-term maintenance of frugivore populations.
23596913|ANOSIM, PERMANOVA, and the Mantel test are all resemblance-based permutation methods widely used in ecology. Here, we report the results of the first simulation study, to our knowledge, specifically designed to examine the effects of heterogeneity of multivariate dispersions on the rejection rates of these tests and on a classical MANOVA test (Pillai's trace). Increasing differences in dispersion among groups were simulated under scenarios of changing sample sizes, correlation structures, error distributions, numbers of variables, and numbers of groups for balanced and unbalanced one-way designs. The power of these tests to detect environmental impacts or natural large-scale biogeographic gradients was also compared empirically under simulations based on parameters derived from real ecological data sets. Overall, ANOSIM and the Mantel test were very sensitive to heterogeneity in dispersions, with ANOSIM generally being more sensitive than the Mantel test. In contrast, PERMANOVA and Pillai's trace were largely unaffected by heterogeneity for balanced designs. PERMANOVA was also unaffected by differences in correlation structure, unlike Pillai's trace. For unbalanced designs, however, all of the tests were (1) too liberal when the smaller group had greater dispersion and (2) overly conservative when the larger group had greater dispersion, especially ANOSIM and the Mantel test. For simulations based on real ecological data sets, PERMANOVA was generally, but not always, more powerful than the others to detect changes in community structure, and the Mantel test was usually more powerful than ANOSIM. Both the error distributions and the resemblance measure affected results concerning power. Differences in the underlying construction of thest test statistics result in important differences in the nature of the null hypothesis they are testing, their sensitivity to heterogeneity, and their power to detect important changes in ecological communities. For balanced designs, PERMANOVA and PERMDISP can be used to rigorously identify location vs. dispersion effects, respectively, in the space of the chosen resemblance measure. ANOSIM and the Mantel test can be used as more "omnibus" tests, being sensitive to differences in location, dispersion or correlation structure among groups. Unfortunately, none of the tests (PERMANOVA, Mantel, or ANOSIM) behaved reliably for unbalanced designs in the face of heterogeneity.
4539114|Theory and experiments demonstrate that the number of species in a local area can determine rates of ecosystem processes, but we know little about how the strength of that control compares with other influences or how it might vary across ecological gradients. Here I report results of a pond mesocosm experiment where consumer (snail) species richness, predation intensity, and nutrient availability were crossed in a full-factorial design. This design allowed a direct comparison of the strength of the different factors on food web properties and ecosystem functioning (i.e., system-level fluxes of energy or matter), and an evaluation of how the factors may interact. Systems with higher snail species richness had greater secondary production, consumer biomass, ecosystem respiration, and macrophyte stem growth, and lower epiphyton and periphyton biomass. However, snail species richness effects on periphyton and epiphyton were context dependent; predators reduced the effect of increasing snail richness on the biomass of attached algae. Species richness effects were most often the result of a biological mechanism (e.g., differential resource use), rather than being solely artifacts of the experimental design (e.g., sampling effects). The effects of nutrient enrichment and predation were mostly predictable from simple food chain models; increases in nutrient availability led to increased algal biomass, primary production, and snail biomass, while predators decreased snail biomass and indirectly augmented algae. Snail species richness effects on the biomass of many functional groups were as strong or stronger than those of a substantial nutrient enrichment or of the addition of a voracious predator (Belostoma flumineum). Nutrient enrichment had the most pronounced effects on several system-level processes (e.g., primary production, sedimentation). Species richness had weaker effects on ecosystem properties than on particular functional groups, probably because of compensatory responses among different producer functional groups. In summary, this experiment suggests that the number of consumer species in a system can have large and meaningful effects on the distribution of biomass in a food web, and that these effects can depend on ecological context.
10.2307/1942224|Concentrations of elements in streamwater were monitored in 57 watersheds located along elevational and successional gradients in the White Mountains of New Hampshire, USA. Concentrations of C1- and SO4-- decreased with increasing elevation as a result of differences in relative evapotranspiration along the elevation gradient. Concentration of Na+, Ca++, and Mg++ also decreased with increasing elevation, but with a steeper slope. Rock weathering/unit of water flux as well as relative evapotranspiration controls concentrations of these cations. Potassium and NO3- concentrations were highly variable, both seasonally within a stream and among streams. Differences among watersheds in terms of successional status are important in controlling NO3- and K+ concentrations. Streams draining old-aged forested ecosystems had higher concentrations of NO3-, K+, and other plant nutrients than did streams draining intermediate-aged successional ecosystems at the same elevation. Nine spruce-fir watersheds which have no record of logging or other extensive human disturbance had streamwater NO3- concentrations averaging 53 microequivalents/litre, while five other spruce-fir watersheds which had been logged 30 yr previously had streamwater NO3- concentrations averaging 8 meq/1. The major factors controlling streamwater concentrations of elements in these watersheds are factors related to supply (precipitation chemistry, relative evapotranspiration, rock weathering) and to plant accumulation of nutrients. Rapidly-growing successional ecosystems can accumulate a large fraction of inputs of nutrient elements, particularly during the growing season. Steady state ecosystems, those with no net biomass accumulation, have nutrient outputs equal to nutrient inputs. The increased losses of nutrient elements from clearcut watersheds in New Hampshire can be explained in these terms. Clearcut or otherwise disturbed ecosystems may have mineralization in excess of plant uptake, leading to element outputs in excess of inputs. Field experiments demonstrated that the prevention of plant uptake by root trenching led to soil NO3- concentrations comparable to those observed in streamwater in the clearcut watershed at Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest.
10.2307/1942211|Dursban, an organophosphorus insecticide, was applied on June 3, June 18, and July 1 to eight shallow (24 cm) experimental ponds near Bakersfield, California. Four ponds were treated at 0.028 kg/ha (=0.025 lb./acre), four were treated at 0.28 kg/ha, and four were kept as controls. Phytoplankton, zooplankton, and insect populations were sampled on 21 dates between May 20 and August 16. Insect larvae and nymphs were more reduced in numbers than were insect adults, reflecting in part the ability of the latter to emigrate and immigrate. Twenty-four-hour posttreatment samples for the second and third, but not first, treatments showed greater reductions of predaceous Notonectidae, Dytiscidae, Coenagrionidae, larval Hydrophilidae) than of @'herbivorous@' (Corixidae, Baetidae, adult Hydrophilidae) insect populations. Predaceous insect populations generally recovered to control-pond levels more slowly than herbivorous insect populations. Five weeks after the last insecticide treatment, predaceous insects averaged only 45% and 9% as abundant in low dose and high dose ponds, respectively, as they were in control ponds (P < 0.02); corresponding figures for herbivorous insects were 108% and 206% (P < 0.10). Initially, Cyclops vernalis and Moina micrura were the only crustacean zooplankters present, and both experienced high mortality due to treatments. Recovery in low dose ponds was variable, requiring 1-3 weeks, and in high dose ponds occurred only 3-6 weeks after the final treatment. Populations of Diaptomus pallidus seemed unaffected by the lower rate of treatment, but became large only after Cyclops populations had been reduced by the insecticide or other factors. Ceriodaphnia sp. became abundant in late July or early August in all four control ponds but not in any treated ponds. Herbivorous rotifers, principally in the genera Brachhionus, Polyarthra, Hexarthra, Filinia, and Tripleuchlanis, increased dramatically, often five- to twentyfold, within 1-3 days after Moina and Cyclops populations were decimated by Dursban, but became abundant in control ponds only during the brief absence of Moina in early July. All planktonic rotifers, except Polyarthra, were more abundant in treated than in contro ponds; all benthic-littoral rotifers (e.g., Lecane, Monostyle, Tripleuchlanis, Platyias, Lepadella, Testudinella) were more abundant in control than in treated ponds. The predaceous rotifer Asplanchna brightwelli was 35 times more abundant in treated than in control ponds, feeding primarily on herbivorous rotifers, sometimes on Cyclops, Diaptomus, Moina, and large algae, and rarely on small mayfly (Baetidae) nymphs and chironomid larvae. Asplanchna populations were composed of three morphotypes, ampulliform, cruciform, and campanuliform, the last of which tended to be highly cannibalistic. The @'wings@' of humps of the cruciform morphotype apparently represent a mechanism for minimizing such cannibalism. The reduction of herbivorous crustaceans by Dursban and the restraint of herbivorous rotifers by Asplanchna predation permitted the rapid increase of phytoplankton populations in treated ponds and, even 6 weeks after the last treatment, the phytoplankton was two and 16 times more abundant in low dose and high dose ponds, respectively, than in control ponds. Blooms of bluegreen algae (Anabaena, Anabaenopsis) developed in three high dose and one low dose pond, and a bloom of the diatom Synedra developed in one low dose pond. The long-spined alga Schroederia setigera seemed favored by high Moina and Diaptomuspopulations and low Cyclops populations. The significance of these results for insect-control programs is discussed.
27646051|Transient low-oxygen patches may have important consequences for the population dynamics of estuarine species. We investigated whether these transient hypoxic patches altered population dynamics of the commercially important blue crab (Callinectes sapidus) and assessed two alternative hypotheses for the causal mechanism. One hypothesis is that temporary reductions in habitat due to hypoxia increase cannibalism. The second hypothesis is that crab population dynamics result from food limitation caused by hypoxia-induced mortality of the benthos. We developed a spatially explicit individual-based model of blue crabs in a hierarchical framework to connect the autoecology of crabs with the spatial and temporal dynamics of their physical and biological environments. Three primary scenarios were run to examine the interactive effects of (1) hypoxic extent vs. static and transient patches, (2) hypoxic extent vs. prey abundance, and (3) hypoxic extent vs. cannibalism potential. Static patches resulted in populations limited by egg production and recruitment whereas transient patches led to populations limited by the effects of cannibalism and patch interactions. Crab survivorship was greatest for simulations with the largest hypoxic patches which also had the lowest prey abundance and lowest crab densities. In these simulations, nearly all crab mortality was accounted for by aggression, not starvation. In addition, increased prey abundance had little influence on crab abundance and dynamics, and massive reductions in prey abundance (>50%) were necessary to decrease crab abundance, survival, and egg production. Our analyses suggest that cannibalism coupled with decreased egg production determined key aspects of crab demography. Specifically, decreased cannibalism potential resulted in a food-limited crab population with long development times and high adult crab densities whereas increased cannibalism potential led to low adult crab densities with higher individual egg production rates. Our analyses identified several key knowledge gaps, including the nature of crabcrab cannibalism and the role of refuges from predation. Several experiments are suggested to test model predictions and to improve understanding of ecosystempopulation linkages for this estuarine species.
10.2307/2963498|Frequent, low intensity fire was an important component of the natural disturbance regime of presettlement savannas and woodlands in the southeastern USA dominated by longleaf pine (Pinus palustris), and prescribed burning is now a critical part of the management of these endangered habitats. Fire season, fire frequency, and fire intensity are three potentially important, though still little understood, components of both natural and managed fire regimes. In this long-term (8-yr) study, we experimentally (through the use of prescribed burning) tested for effects of fire season (eight different times throughout the year) and fire frequency (annual vs. biennial burning), on population dynamics (recruitment, growth, mortality, change in density, and change in basal area [the total basal area of all stems in a plot]) and species composition of trees in two quite different types of longleaf-pine-dominated habitats (north Florida sandhills and flatwoods). Limited fire temperature and intensity data were also collected during one year to examine the relationship between fire behavior (temperature and intensity) and tree mortality. Contrary to prior hypotheses, our results showed few systematic or predictable effects of season or frequency of burning on dynamics of longleaf pine. Instead, variability in the population dynamics of this species appeared to be related largely to variation in fire behavior, regardless of the season of burning. Consistent with prior hypotheses, we found that deciduous oak species (Quercus laevis, Q. margaretta, and Q. incana) were least vulnerable to dormant-season burning and most vulnerable to burning early in the growing season. This was shown particularly by seasonal trends in the effect of burning on oak mortality (both topkill and complete kill) and, to a lesser extent, on oak recruitment. Oak densities and basal areas also declined in the spring-burned plots, resulting in a shift away from oaks and towards increased dominance by longleaf pine. Detrimental effects of spring burning on oaks were partly explained by fire behavior, but there appeared also to be an important residual effect of burning season, particularly on complete kill. Though longleaf pine population dynamics did not differ markedly as a result of burning season and frequency, we did find important differences in pine dynamics between the two habitats (i.e., sandhills and flatwoods). In general, populations of longleaf pines in the sandhills appeared to be density regulated, while flatwoods pine populations were declining regardless of the level of intraspecific competition. This suggests that long-term persistence of longleaf pine, and perhaps other fire-adapted species in frequently burned longleaf-pine-dominated communities, may be determined by complex interactions between habitat factors and fire regimes.
41739371|Climate and soils are widely recognized as major drivers of virtually all properties of ecosystems and communities. However, despite major advances in the understanding of soil formation and ecosystem dynamics, the effects of climate on soil properties are not widely appreciated. Understanding the effects of water availability on the rates of chemical and biological processes that affect soil formation can help clarify the global patterns of soil fertility, which affect agricultural and forest productivity, as well as biodiversity. Empirical tests of Albrecht's conceptual model of soil development and degradation using global climate and soil data sets and soil chronosequences confirm that soil total exchangeable bases (TEB), phosphorus, nitrogen, and other components of soil fertility, along with plant productivity generally decline on older soils and under wetter conditions as precipitation exceeds potential evapotranspiration. The basic pattern of soil fertility in relation to water availability is a unimodal curve, with a maximum near or below a water balance of zero (annual precipitation minus annual potential evapotranspiration). Analysis of global data by subregions reveals significant differences between temperate and tropical soil fertility distributions, as well as significant differences between continents. The low levels of soil nutrients (e.g., TEB, P, N) and plant productivity found on ancient soils or highly weathered soils in regions with high precipitation suggest that the positive effects of low productivity on plant diversity that have been observed at local and regional scales may also occur at the global scale.
10.2307/2963522|The widespread and long-lasting impact of human activity on natural ecosystems indicates that land-use history must be treated as an integral aspect of ecological study and a critical component of conservation planning. The New England landscape has undergone a complete transformation as forests were converted to agriculture in the 18th and 19th centuries followed by succession to woodland as a result of widespread agricultural abandonment. Despite the prevalence of human impacts, the effect and longevity of land-use practices on modern forest conditions are poorly understood. In the present study of pitch pine-scrub oak vegetation on a sand plain in the Connecticut Valley of Massachusetts, we address the following questions: (1) what is the relative importance of human and natural disturbance and environmental factors in controlling vegetation composition, structure, and landscape patterns; (2) what are the mechanisms underlying human impacts on vegetation, and what is the duration of these impacts; and (3) what are the implications of land-use history for the interpretation and conservation of these communities? Sand plain vegetation was selected for investigation because the homogeneity of site conditions facilitates the interpretation of land-use and natural disturbance impacts, and because the uncommon vegetation and constituent species are priorities for conservation efforts. Paleoecological data suggest that pre-European fires were common on the study area, perhaps ignited by a large regional Indian population. The area was noted historically as an extensive pine plain and was used for wood products from the 18th to the mid-19th century. Eighty-two percent of the area was subsequently plowed for agriculture before being abandoned in the early 20th century. Soil analyses confirm the homogeneity of site conditions and suggest that land uses (plowing, woodlot/pasture) were determined according to ownership pattern rather than site factors. Previously cultivated parcels have distinct Ap (plow horizons) 15-33 cm deep, whereas uncultivated parcels have A horizons 3-10 cm in depth. Soil physical and chemical characteristics are similar among land uses and modern vegetation types. Aerial photographs document a dramatic transformation in plant cover over the last 50 yr. In 1939, the vegetation was grassland or shrub-heath (49%), open-canopy forest (29%), and scrub-oak shrublands (15%). In 1985, 73% of the study area was forested with pitch pine (40%), hardwood (12%), or mixed stands (21%), 9% was in open-canopy stands, and 3% was covered by grass or shrubs. Vegetation/land-use relations are striking. Pitch pine occurs almost exclusively (97%) on former plowed sites, whereas scrub oak stands occur preferentially (89%) on sites that have not been plowed. Land use explains the greatest variation in modern vegetation as well as the distribution and abundance of many taxa. Fire has been common across the study area but has influenced vegetation largely within patterns resulting from prior land use. Land-use patterns and factors controlling vegetation composition and structure are broadly paralleled at similar sites elsewhere in the Connecticut Valley. The study indicates that conservation biologists interested in preserving species, communities, and landscape patterns on sand plains in the northeastern United States need to incorporate a dynamic perspective of biological systems that includes the overriding impact of prior land use. In order to appreciate, study, and display these land-use and vegetation patterns it is essential to conserve the mosaic of assemblages and historical uses within a landscape setting.
43187598|Community assembly is affected by environmental filtering that restricts viable phenotypes and by species interactions that impose limits on interspecific trait similarity. Relative influences of these processes should vary according to habitat features and dispersal. Species dispersion within assemblage trait space also should vary in relation to species richness, strength of competition, and the spatiotemporal scale of analysis. We examined ecomorphological diversity of two freshwater fish families (Neotropical Cichlidae, Nearctic Centrarchidae) to test theories of local assembly from regional species pools and theories of species packing within mesohabitat patches. Cichlid and centrarchid assemblages were surveyed in four floodplain rivers (two in South America and two in North America) during low-water periods when fish densities are highest. Surveys were conducted in four mesohabitat types (submerged wood, leaf litter, rocks, sand bank) within river channels and floodplain lakes. We measured 23 morphological traits associated with locomotion and feeding. Principal components analysis was performed on the species X traits matrix, and species axis scores were used to calculate species pairwise Euclidean distances and indices of dispersion within assemblage morphospace: mean nearest-neighbor distance (indicating similarity), mean distance to centroid (assemblage morphospace size), and standard deviation of nearestneighbor distance (evenness of dispersion within assemblage morphospace). A null model was used to assess whether patterns were significantly nonrandom. When data for all mesohabitat types were combined for each river, species were significantly overdispersed and the assemblage morphospace was larger than predicted at random in every case. Analysis of assemblages within mesohabitat patches of different types revealed, in every case, significant overdispersion of species in morphospace indicative of limiting similarity. The total assemblage morphospace was greater than expected for tropical cichlids, but not for temperate centrarchids. Trends of species dispersion with assemblage morphospace in relation to species richness within mesohabitat patches were not consistent among or within river systems, possibly indicating that patches were already saturated with these perciform fishes. Interregional comparisons suggest an influence from both adaptive diversification and environmental filtering at broad spatial scales. At the scale of mesohabitat patches in lowland rivers, cichlid and centrarchid assemblages revealed patterns of trait complementarity that imply limiting similarity and strong influence of biotic interactions.
10.2307/1943028|We report the results of a 4-yr study of the community dynamics of the annual weed species Abutilon theophrasti (velvet leaf) and Amaranthus retroflexus (pigweed). We calibrated neighborhood population dynamic models for communities of these species in the field and then tested the predictions of the calibrated models against census data from independent observations. We also analyzed the calibrated and tested models to predict long-term dynamics and to assess how spatially local interactions, growth, fecundity, survivorship, germination, seed dormancy, and dispersal each contribute to the community's dynamics and structure. We show that calibrated neighborhood models accurately predict dynamics in the field over a 4-yr period. Because the predictive spatial models reduce approximately to simple nonspatial models of competition, the spatial processes that govern the dynamics of velvet leaf and pigweed communities behave as simple nonspatial processes. The models predict that velvet leaf will eventually exclude pigweed because of an asymmetry in the magnitude of inter-individual interference affecting growth. We also show that velvet leaf monocultures would oscillate perpetually in the absence of delayed germination and that demographic stochasticity (May 1971) has little effect on the dynamics of the experimental species.
23047066|The accuracy of methods for reconstructing parameters (e.g., tree density) of historical forest structure from General Land Office (GLO) survey data has not been thoroughly assessed. Past simulation and statistical assessments of plotless density estimators have focused on minimizing estimation error, but not congruent with the specific data available in the GLO surveys. Most GLO reconstruction studies do not reconstruct absolute measures of density, basal area, or diameter-class distributions, key measures used for forest restoration. We tested the accuracy of a suite of plotless density estimators and other survey methods to accurately reconstruct forest attributes using both a field-based modern calibration and a cross-validation with tree-ring reconstructions. In addition to the common distance estimators, we developed several Voronoi-based plotless density estimators that can be used with GLO data. Estimators were assessed using modern survey and plot data collected in the same location and spatial arrangement as the original survey locations in three geographically distinct areas. Results showed that Voronoi-based density estimators were superior to distance-based estimators. Data need to be pooled across locations. Voronoi estimators yielded more accurate measures of density and basal area and can be used at smaller pooling levels without sacrificing much accuracy. At spatial extents of 260 and 520 ha (3- and 6-corner pools), relative mean absolute error (RMAE) averaged 29% and 22%, respectively, for density estimates in all three study areas. To estimate basal area as accurately (i.e., 23%), data must be pooled to 780 ha (9-corner pool). Composition and diameter-class distributions also required larger pooling areas to achieve accurate results. In the cross-validation, accuracy of density and basal area were both superior to accuracy in the modern calibration, and RMAE for density and basal area at all pooling levels averaged 16.6% and 15.7%, respectively. Composition and diameter-class distribution estimates were lower in accuracy. Voronoi-based methods can accurately estimate historical forest parameters across large landscapes and are accurate at finer scales (e.g., 260 ha, 3-corner pool) than previously thought possible. GLO reconstructions complement tree-ring reconstructions but can provide more spatially comprehensive estimates of the historical range of forest variability, facilitating landscape-level restoration.
27646117|Environmental variation plays a central role in regulating processes at all levels of ecological organization. Environmental data (e.g., temperature, rainfall, stream discharge, water chemistry) are typically easy to collect in large quantity, a requirement for many data-hungry time series tools. Unfortunately, these data are very rarely used effectively in ecology. Here we address this problem by outlining a suite of tools that can be used to quantify periodic, stochastic, and catastrophic variation in environmental conditions. We illustrate the application of these tools using long-term records of average daily discharge in 105 streams and rivers maintained by the U.S. Geological Survey on the NWIS (National Water Information System) web site. Specifically, we apply Fourier analysis to estimate the periodic (seasonal) and stochastic (interannual) components of variation in discharge. We then estimate the temporal autocorrelation structure of stochastic variation (i.e., noise color) in daily flows for each stream. Noise color corresponds to storage of atmospheric inputs within the watershed. Finally, we extend Fourier analysis in two ways to provide estimates of annual noise color and catastrophic variation in both high- and low-flow events. Our analysis provides three compelling insights about the nature of variation in discharge experienced by stream biota. First, seasonal variation in discharge is higher than interannual variation in most streams, although some streams can be classified as aseasonal. Second, daily noise color varies from slightly pink to black, reflecting storage of water at a wide range of temporal scales. By contrast, annual noise color is nearly uniformly white across our sample of streams, reflecting nearly zero storage of atmospheric inputs across years. Third, catastrophic variation in high flows is of greater magnitude than in low flows for many of our 105 streams, yet low-flow variation is surprisingly high. This result suggests that low-flow events may be underappreciated in stream ecology. We close by suggesting how these methods could be applied to other environmental variables (hourly temperature, monthly rainfall). Periodic, stochastic, and catastrophic sources of variation contribute to environmental stress, process noise, and disturbance, respectively. Thus, the tools we present here provide a means for estimating numerical values associated with these ecological concepts and facilitate comparative studies conducted across gradients of one or more of these sources of variation.
10.2307/2657218|We compared the effects of habitat quality on dispersal, demography, dynamics, and fitness of prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) and meadow vole (M. pennsylvanicus) populations by manipulating habitat patches in experimental landscapes. Four habitat patches in each of four replicate landscapes differed in availability of high-quality food and amount of vegetative cover in a 2 x 2 factorial design. High cover had a strong positive effect on basic habitat quality, as reflected by the performance of founders early in the season, but supplemental food had only a small effect. Population growth ceased for prairie voles after week 18 (mid-October) when densities had reached much higher levels in habitats with high cover (260  27 voles/ha in high cover with either high or low food; mean  1 SE) than in habitats with low cover (115  38 voles/ha in high food, low cover and 60  15 voles/ha in low food, low cover). Population growth had ceased in three habitat types for meadow voles by week 20 at much higher densities than for prairie voles in high cover (636  101 voles/ha with high food, high cover; 556  117 voles/ha with low food, high cover; 110  74 voles/ha with high food, low cover; and 51  16 voles/ha with low food, low cover). Correlates of fitness for prairie voles, particularly the number of young surviving to adulthood per female, indicated greater individual fitness in high cover than in low cover, which suggests ideal despotic habitat selection. The proportion of the total population found in habitat patches with high cover continued to increase until prairie vole populations stabilized late in the season. This result did not agree with expectations of either the ideal free model or the ideal despotic model of habitat selection. Fitness differed little for meadow voles in different habitat types, and the proportions of the populations in different habitats remained constant after the founders had settled and population growth began. Both of these patterns supported the ideal free model of habitat selection for meadow voles. Because positive net recruitment occurred in all habitats for both species of voles, source-sink dynamics could not occur in our experimental system. Two subpopulations of meadow voles in low-food, low-cover habitats did go extinct temporarily, but this habitat type did not appear to be a population sink because the losses occurred primarily from emigration rather than mortality. Emigration rates for both species of voles were inversely related to carrying capacity of the habitat (estimated as the density at which populations stabilized). This relationship and ideal free habitat selection are required by the balanced dispersal model, which produces equal numbers of dispersers between a pair of habitat types. Dispersal of meadow voles was balanced throughout the growing season, but dispersal of prairie voles was unbalanced, with net movement of individuals from low-quality to high-quality habitats until late in the season when populations stabilized. Unbalanced dispersal early in the season may have reflected a delayed response to habitat quality by prairie voles. Populations in high cover approached stable densities largely as a result of density-dependent in situ net recruitment, whereas populations in low cover stabilized more as a result of density-dependent net movement for both species of voles. Per capita emigration did not show a consistent positive relation to population growth in high cover, as would be expected if dispersal contributed to the tendency for prairie voles to display multiannual population cycles in such habitats. In fact, emigration generally declined as density increased (inversely density dependent), which should have fostered greater population growth as densities increased. Nevertheless, population growth declined late in the season, which implied that emigration (dispersal) did not strongly affect the pattern of population dynamics in high-quality habitats. The overall results for the two species were remarkably similar, although prairie voles did differ from meadow voles in several respects. Meadow voles performed less well in low-cover habitats than did prairie voles, which probably reflected their greater sensitivity to predation risk. Prairie voles tended to move into habitats with supplemental food, and young prairie voles had greater body growth in habitats with supplemental food, whereas meadow voles showed neither response. Finally, although the results for meadow voles consistently indicated ideal free habitat selection throughout the growing season, those for prairie voles did not until late in the season. This difference between species likely reflected a more rapid response to habitat quality by the more vagile meadow voles.
10.2307/1943042|Charcoal stratigraphic analysis and fire scars on red pine (Pinus resinosa) trees were used to determine spatial and temporal occurrence of fire in 1 km^2 of old-growth mixed conifer/hardwood forests in northwestern Minnesota. Charcoal was analyzed year by year on petrographic thin sections from annually laminated sediments of three small (@<5 ha) lakes having adjacent catchments. Dated fire scars (n = 150) from recent treefalls provided an independent record of the spatial patterns of past burns. Sedimentology of the varved sediments, water-balance models that use 150 yr of instrumental temperature and precipitation data, and published data were used to identify climate changes in separate studies, and they were used in this study to examine the possible connection between changing fire regimes and climate change. Fire-history data were used to show the changing probability of fire with time since the last fire and the effects of spatial variance (slope and aspect) on the distribution of fires through time. Over the last 750 yr, fire was most frequent (8.6 @+ 2.9-yr intervals) during the warm/dry 15th and 16th centuries. Intervals were longer (13.2 @+ 8.0 yr) during cooler/moister times from AD 1240 to 1440 and since 1600 (the Little Ice Age). The fire regime during the Little Ice Age consisted of periods during the mid-18th and mid-19th centuries characterized by longer fire intervals of 24.5 @+ 10.4 and 43.6 @+ 15.9 yr, respectively, and short-term warm/dry periods from 1770 to 1820 and 1870 to 1920 when intervals were 17.9 @+ 10.6 and 12.7 @+ 10.1, respectively. The probability of fire increased through time, probably in step with fuel accumulation. South- and west-facing slopes burned more frequently than did north and east aspects. Fire suppression began in 1910. During warm periods, probability of fire was sufficiently high that a continuous litter layer was all that was necessary for fire to spread and scar trees. During cool and moist times fire was most likely to occur in years with higher moisture deficits. The combined methods for fire-history analysis provided a more detailed spatial and temporal documentation of fire regimes than has previously been possible from analysis of fire scars or of charcoal counts derived from fossil pollen preparations. Results support predictions of particle-motion physics that thin sections record a local fire history. Because climate varies continuously, the responsiveness of disturbance regime to short- and long-term climatic change suggests caution in the interpretation of fire frequencies that derive from space/time analogies or extrapolation from short-term data.
10.2307/1942595|Using the latest observations, experiments, and theoretical studies, I have reanalyzed spruce budworm data from the Green River Project, and now propose a new interpretation of the population dynamics of the species. Spruce budworm populations in the Province of New Brunswick have been oscillating more or less periodically for the last two centuries, the average period being @?35 yr. Local populations over the province tend to oscillate in unison, though their amplitudes and mean levels are not always the same. The local population process in the spruce bud worm is composed of two major parts, a basic oscillation, and secondary fluctuations about this basic oscillation. The basic oscillation is largely determined by the combined action of several intrinsic (density-dependent) mortality factors during the third to sixth larval instars. These factors include parasitoids and, probably, diseases (e.g., microsporidian infection), and, most important, an intriguing complex of unknown causes, which I term @'the fifth agent@' (a large number of larvae with no clear symptoms died during the population decline in the late 1950s). Other mortality factors, including predation, food shortage, weather, and losses during the spring and fall dispersal of young larvae, are not causes of the basic, universally occurring oscillation. Because of immigration and emigration of egg-carrying moths, the ratio of all eggs laid to the number of locally emerged moths (the E/M ratio, or the apparent oviposition rate) fluctuates widely from year to year but independently of the basic oscillation of density in the local populations that were studied. The fluctuation in this ratio is the main source of the secondary fluctuation in density about the basic oscillation, and is highly correlated with the meteorological conditions that govern the immigration and emigration of moths. The E/M ratio is the major density-independent component of budworm population dynamics. Contrary to common belief, there is no evidence to indicate that invasions of egg-carrying moths from other areas upset the assumed endemic equilibrium state of a local population and trigger outbreaks. Moth invasions can only accelerate an increase in a local population to an outbreak level, but this happens only when the population is already in an upswing phase of an oscillation caused by high survival of the feeding larvae. In other words, the @'seed@' of an outbreak lies in the survival of feeding larvae in the locality, and moth invasions can act only as @'fertilizers.@' The weight of evidence is against the idea that an outbreak occurs in an @'epicenter@' and spreads to the surrounding areas through moth dispersal. Rather, the egg mass survey data in New Brunswick since 1952 favor an alternative explanation. If the trough of a population oscillation in a certain area stays comparatively high, as in central New Brunswick in the 1960s, or if the area is more heavily invaded by egg-carrying moths when the populations in that area are in an upswing phase, these populations might reach an outbreak level slightly ahead of the surrounding populations, all of which are oscillating in unison. If a local population oscillates because of the action of density-dependent factors intrinsic to the local budworm system, it may appear to be difficult to explain why many local populations over a wide area oscillate in unison. However, Moran's (1953) theory shows that density-independent factors (such as weather) that are correlated among localities will bring independently oscillating local populations into synchrony, even if weather itself has no oscillatory trend. I illustrate this with a simple time-series model. The same model also illustrates a principle behind the fact that outbreaks occurred fairly regularly in New Brunswick and Quebec during the past two centuries but rather sporadically in other regions of eastern Canada. Finally, I review the commonly accepted theory of outbreaks based on the dichotomy of endemic and epidemic equilibrium states and argue that the theory does not apply to the spruce budworm system.
10.2307/1942506|The temporal and spatial patterns of larval settlement of the bluehead wrasse, Thalasoma bifasciatum, were documented in the San Blas Islands of Panama. Daily censuses indicated that larvae settle onto coral reefs in brief episodes that tended to occur around the new moon and peak in intensity between August and December of each year. The magnitude of settlement each day was unrelated to changes in the local population size but was found to be significantly correlated with the nightly catch of planktonic reef fish larvae in the waters over the reef. The spatial pattern of settlement was examined on three scales. On a large geographic scale, 24 reefs within 1000 km^2, there was tremendous variability in settlement intensity that was very consistent from one year to the next. The best correlate of recruit density was exposure to the onshore current. It is suggested that some large-scale oceanographic process determines the intensity of settlement of bluehead wrasses on this scale. The densities of adults on these reefs directly reflected the densities of recruits. Counts of daily otolith increments indicated that those larvae that settled onto low-density reefs subsequently grew significantly faster. On an intermediate scale, sites within 1 km^2, there was no consistency among sites or months in settlement intensity, suggesting that variance in settlement intensity on this scale may be the product of random processes. On the smallest scale, habitat selection within a patch reef, it was found that recruits had distinct preferences in their choices of settlement sites. The daily mortality schedule of bluehead wrasses indicated that mortality was extremely high for the first 3 d on the reef. Juvenile mortality was, furthermore, found to be independent of density. As a result, the patterns of larval settlement of bluehead wrasses persisted into the adult population relatively unchanged. It is therefore proposed that the distribution and abundance of bluehead wrasses in this region are more a product of the external processes controlling larval settlement than of any biological interactions within the reef assemblage.
23208476|Metabolic rate is commonly thought to scale with body mass to the 3/4 power as a result of universal body design constraints. However, recent comparative work has shown that the metabolic-scaling slope may vary significantly among species and higher taxa, apparently in response to different lifestyles and ecological conditions, though the precise mechanisms involved are not well understood. To better understand these underappreciated ecological effects and their causes, it is important to control for extraneous phylogenetic and environmental influences. We demonstrate how this may be done by comparing the ontogenetic scaling of resting metabolic rate among populations of the same species (the amphipod Gammarus minus) in mid-Appalachian freshwater springs with similar, relatively constant environmental conditions, except for the varying presence of the predatory fish Cottus cognatus. We found that populations of G. minus exhibit significantly lower metabolic-scaling slopes (0.540.62) in three freshwater springs with C. cognatus than in two springs without these fish (0.760.77). We tested multiple hypothetical causes for these population differences. Our results best supported the hypothesis that metabolic scaling was influenced by the effects of size-selective predation on the ontogeny of growth, a metabolically expensive process. The body size scaling of growth is significantly less steep in the populations inhabiting springs with vs. without fish, thus paralleling the interpopulation differences in metabolic scaling. Prematurational growth of G. minus is as high or higher in the fish springs, whereas postmaturational growth is significantly lower, often approaching zero. Similarly, the amphipods in the fish springs tend to have higher metabolic rates at small sizes, but lower metabolic rates at large sizes, compared to those in the fishless springs. Our results do not support other hypothetical causes of the interpopulation variation in metabolic scaling, including differential scaling of cell size or low-metabolism body components (fat and mineralized exoskeleton), or possible effects of other environmental factors associated with the presence of fish. However, fish-induced population differences in adult behavioral activity may influence metabolic scaling in G. minus, a possibility under current study. We conclude that ecological factors may significantly influence metabolic scaling, contrary to common belief.
10.2307/1942435|To investigate experimentally the relationship between dispersal and population regulation in small mammals, voles were removed continuously from two plots in southern Indiana for 2 years. Three control populations of two Microtus species were monitored over the same period, and animals dispersing onto the experimental areas were compared with resident control animals for the following characteristics: (1) age, weight, and sex; (2) genotype for two polymorphic plasma proteins, leucine aminopeptidase (LAP) and transferrin (Tf); and (3) exploratory, aggressive, and general activity behavior of males. Dispersal was most common during the fall and winter, and in the phase of population increase 59% of male and 69% of female Microtus pennsylvanicus loss from two control populations could be accounted for by dispersal. In contrast, little of the high loss during the population decline could be associated with dispersal. In the late peak and decline periods male M. pennsylvanicus of the Tf-E and LAP-S phenotypes were more common among dispersing animals. In Microtus ochrogaster males the very rare Tf-F type was found only in dispersing ales. Young females were more common in dispersing populations of both species, and sexual maturation and dispersal were related in both vole species. However, dispersal by adults was only common. Dispersing males tended to be less active than males of resident populations. During a period of peak population density, dispersing male M. pennsylvanicus were more aggressive. As population density increased, @'intolerant@' animals moved into less densely populated areas. The genetic differences between dispersing and resident populations tend to support Howard's hypothesis that a genetic polymorphism influences the tendency to disperse. The association between increasing populations and abundant dispersal agrees with Lidicker's theory of population regulation by emigration and Chitty's hypothesis that a behavioral polymorphism regulates population density.
4539068|Understanding the role of scale is critical to ecologists' ability to make appropriate measurements, to "scale up" from local, short-term experiments to larger areas and longer times, to formulate models of community structure, and to address important conservation problems. Although these issues have received increased attention in recent years, empirical measurements of the scales of ecologically important variables are still rare. Here, we measure the spatial and temporal scales of variability of 15 ecologically relevant physical and biological processes in the wave-swept intertidal zone at Mussel Point, near Hopkins Marine Station in California. We analyze temporal variability in wave height, ocean temperature, upwelling intensity, solar irradiance, and body temperature for periods ranging from ten minutes to fifty years. In addition, we measure spatial variation in shoreline topography, wave force, wave-induced disturbance, body temperature, species diversity, recruitment, primary productivity, and the abundances of grazers, predators, and the competitive dominant occupier of space. Each of these spatial variables is measured along three horizontal transects in the upper intertidal zone: a short transect (44 m long with sampling locations spaced at ~0.5-m intervals), a medium transect (175 m long with sampling locations spaced at ~1.7-m intervals), and a long transect (334 m long with sampling locations spaced at ~3.4-m intervals). Six different methods are used to quantify the scale of each variable. Distinct scales are evident in all but one of our temporal variables, demonstrating that our methods for quantifying scale can work effectively with relatively simple, periodic phenomena. However, our spatial results reveal basic problems that arise when attempting to measure the scale of variability for more complex phenomena. For a given variable and length of transect, different methods of calculating scale seldom agree, and in some cases estimates differ by more than an order of magnitude. For a given variable and method of calculating spatial scale, measurements are sensitive to the length of a transect; the longer the transect, the larger the estimate of scale. We propose that the "1/f noise" nature of the data can explain both the variability among methods for calculating scale and the length dependence of spatial scales of variation, and that the 1/f noise character of the data may be driven by the fractal geometry of shoreline topography. We conclude that it may not be possible to define a meaningful spatial scale of variation in this system. As an alternative to the boiled-down concept of "scale," we suggest that it is more appropriate to examine explicitly the pattern in which variability changes with the extent of measurement (e.g., the spectrum). Knowledge of this pattern can provide useful ecological scaling "rules" even when a well-defined scale (or hierarchy of scales) cannot be discerned.
10.2307/1942304|Wild D. pseudoobscura flies were captured, marked, and released in relatively low numbers at nine separate, centrally located sites in each of two Colorado, U.S.A., locations in midsummer 1970. The flies were marked by spraying with micronized dusts which fluoresce in characteristic colors under ultraviolet light. The dusts are harmless, they mark the flies well, and they are not transferred from one fly to another. The trapping design extending out from the central release points contained additional traps on eight evenly spaced radii. Data on the number of captured, unmarked flies and recaptured, marked flies in the central and outlying traps provided maximum likelihood estimates of adult density and dispersion. These data were adjusted for the presence of a sibling species, D. lowei, by means of an accurate morphological technique which permits classification of the two kinds of males. Preliminary analyses indicated that dispersal estimates made during an evening activity period 1 day after release of marked flies pertain mostly to dispersion during the intervening morning activity period, when no traps were exposed. It was necessary to base estimates of both density and dispersion on trapping days following days when only a few or no traps had been exposed in the habitat. The minimum attractive radius of a trap was approximately 46 m. The estimates of density at both locations were similar, averaging 0.38 flies/100 m^2. An independent and much simpler estimate of density, based on the number of flies captured at the center trap, gave inconsistent results. This was attributed to accidental interference with normal fly activity. The mean distance (d) of marked flies from the release points after 1 day (presumably after one morning activity period) was 176 and 202 m at the two locations. The mean-squared distance (d^2@?) was 97 and 146, respectively, in units of 400 m^2. The estimates for the first location are more reliable because those data were more homogeneous and extensive. The patterns of the observed dispersion agreed well with Brownian motion expectations on the basis of comparing first- and second-order moments of distance dispersed. This permitted the construction of graphs which depict the spread of released flies with an increasing number of activity periods. An activity parameter @?, the standard deviation of dispersed flies along one direction in a two-dimensional environment, was estimated from @ under the assumption of Brownian motion (@?"b"."m.) and without this assumption (@?"D"."F".). These estimates refer only to the observed dispersion. At the first location the values were 141 and 139 m, respectively; at the second they were 162 and 171. Closer inspection of the observed dispersal patterns, accompanied by further analyses of the data, revealed a departure from Brownian motion and probably serious underestimates of the true dispersal rates. A certain proportion of flies dispersed rapidly to points outside the experimental area during the morning activity period following an evening release. Using an estimate of 95.3% daily survival of marked flies, 2-day dispersal data suggested that more than half the flies had moved beyond the experimental area in two morning activity periods. The earlier experiments on density and dispersion of D. pseudoobscura, conducted by Dobzhansky and Wright in California, were re-analyzed by the present methods. Midsummer density of wild flies in Colorado was one-seventeenth that on Mt. San Jacinto in southern California, and three-fifths that at Mather in the Sierra Nevada of central California. Comparison of @?"d"."f. estimates indicated that the wild Colorado flies dispersed at a rate approximately 50% greater than the laboratory flies released in California, even though the latter probably had more opportunity for dispersion. This difference may result partly from an adaptive strategy for greater dispersion of flies in low density habitats, and partly from a fundamentally different behavior of wild and laboratory flies. The large values of @?"d"."f". (which are underestimates due to dispersion beyond the experimental areas) in both Colorado and California suggest that natural populations of D. pseudoobscura are not broken up into a number of very small breeding units within which allelic variation could be stored by genetic drift. Wright's panmictic circle concept yielded estimates of effective population size (N"e) between 1,000 and 10,000 in both Colorado and California. According to existing theory, these values are not large enough to maintain the allelic diversity known to exist for certain enzyme loci. The need for more sophisticated experiments to determine which components of dispersion are most closely associated with distribution of emergence sites of parents and offspring is discussed.
3100073| This research examines the foraging energetics and diving behavior of the Australian sea lion, Neophoca cinerea. We examine whether the foraging ecology of the Australian sea lion is typical for an animal that has evolved to exploit benthic habitats. Such a strategy is in marked contrast to those utilized by some seabirds and other pinnipeds that feed in the midwater, where travel and search components of the time at sea become more important. Onshore and at-sea field metabolic rates (FMR) were measured using doubly labeled water in lactating sea lions at Kangaroo Island, South Australia, during the winter of 1988 (early lactation, breeding season 1) and the summer of 1990 (early lactation, breeding season 2). Dive behavior was also measured with dataloggers during these seasons, as well as in the summer of 1991 (late lactation, breeding season 2). The foraging behavior of Neophoca cinerea indicated that it works hard to exploit benthic habitats in the waters around its breeding site. Sea lions maximized time spent at or near the benthos, with 61% of each dive and 35% of their time at sea being spent at the deepest 20% of the dives. The dive pattern was characterized by almost continuous diving when at sea, with 57.9% of their time at sea spent at depths 6 m, and dive rates of 10.7 dives/h. Mean surface intervals (1.0-1.9 min) accounted for only 42% of mean dive durations (2.2-4.1 min). Mean dive depths ranged from 41.5 m to 83.1 m, with maximum dives ranging from 60 m to 105 m. The energetic costs of this strategy are high when compared with those of other otariids: the mean at-sea FMR was 7.05  0.99 W/kg. We report seasonal variability in foraging energetics and dive behavior that is likely to be sensitive to regional oceanography, the maintenance costs of female sea lions and their offspring, and the distribution and behavior of their prey. Further, we note that Australian sea lions are functionally adapted to benefit from benthic foraging strategies because their larger size and insulating blubber convey an advantage over the generally smaller sympatric fur seals that would have a decrease in air/fur insulation with compression at deeper depths and would experience greater water infiltration of the fur with longer dives. 
10.2307/1942504|Pollen data were used to reconstruct the past 340 yr of vegetational changes at Great South Beach, a system of barrier beaches east of Fire Island Inlet, Long Island, New York. The data came from cores taken along 16 transects, 6 of which are described in detail. Dates and stratigraphy from individual cores provided local environmental histories that were combined to reconstruct temporal and spatial patterns of vegetation on local and regional scales. Changes in inlet status and local disturbances accounted for much of the dynamism in vegetation. Salt marshes fringed back-barrier lagoons only when many inlets were open and saline conditions prevailed (1760 to 1835; 1931 to the present). Cyperaceae dominated marshes throughout the remainder of postsettlement time. Inlets affected vegetation by altering tidal range and salinity in back barrier lagoons and provided new substrates for marsh establishment when flood-tide deltas were abandoned by inlet channels. At least once every 100 yr along the six transects, sufficient sand was deposited to destroy all vegetation. The composition of invading assemblages on primary substrates was regulated mainly by physical factors. Annual herbs, shrubs, or high-marsh plants each were @'pioneers@' at different localities and times. Putative @'pioneer@' annuals were not limited to the early stages of succession. Fluctuating water tables played an important role in determining composition of freshwater wetlands. Biotically controlled trends in plant composition could not be positively identified. The reconstructions on Great South Beach indicate tight environmental control of plant distribution but emphasize that vegetation does not achieve an equilibrium with the physical environment. Present distributions are largely the product of historical events acting together with existing conditions.
10.2307/3100029|The fine roots of trees are concentrated on lateral branches that arise from perennial roots. They are important in the acquisition of water and essential nutrients, and at the ecosystem level, they make a significant contribution to biogeochemical cycling. Fine roots have often been studied according to arbitrary size classes, e.g., all roots less than 1 or 2 mm in diameter. Because of the size class approach, the position of an individual root on the complex lateral branching system has often been ignored, and relationships between the form of the branching root system and its function are poorly understood. The fine roots of both gymnosperms and angiosperms, which formed ectomycorrhizae (EM) and arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) fungal associations, were sampled in 1998 and 1999. Study sites were chosen to encompass a wide variety of environments in four regions of North America. Intact lateral branches were collected from each species and 18561 individual roots were dissected by order, with distal roots numbered as first-order roots. This scheme is similar to the one commonly used to number the order of streams. Fine root diameter, length, specific root length (SRL; m/g), and nitrogen (N) concentration of nine North American tree species (Acer saccharum, Juniperus monosperma, Liriodendron tulipifera, Picea glauca, Pinus edulis, Pinus elliottii, Pinus resinosa, Populus balsamifera, and Quercus alba) were then compared and contrasted. Lateral roots <0.5 mm in diameter accounted for >75% of the total number and length of individual roots sampled in all species except Liriodendron tulipifera. Both SRL and N concentration decreased with increasing root order in all nine species, and this pattern appears to be universal in all temperate and boreal trees. Nitrogen concentrations ranged from 8.5 to 30.9 g/kg and were highest in the first-order "root tips." On a mass basis, first-order roots are expensive to maintain per unit time (high tissue N concentration). Tissue N appears to be a key factor in understanding the C cost of maintaining first- and second-order roots, which dominate the display of absorbing root length. There were many significant differences among species in diameter, length, SRL, and N concentration. For example, two different species can have similar SRL but very different tissue N concentrations. Our findings run contrary to the common idea that all roots of a given size class function the same way and that a common size class for fine roots works well for all species. Interestingly, fine root lateral branches are apparently deciduous, with a distinct lateral branch scar. The position of an individual root on the branching root system appears to be important in understanding the function of fine roots.
10.2307/2937263|Seed dispersal of Prunus mahaleb (Rosaceae), a tree producing large fruit crops, was studied in southeastern Spain to establish the degree of reciprocal dependence between the plant and the birds which disperse it. P. mahaleb drupes contain a relatively large seed (pulp: stone ratio 0.62). The water content of pulp is 82.9% and dry flesh contains 3.2% crude fat and 2.8% crude protein, being largely made up of carbohydrates. Four bird species were the main seed dispersers. Visitation rates, feeding efficiency, and degree of dependence on P. mahaleb fruits for food varied substantially among species. Turdus merula and Sylvia atricapilla showed the highest visitation rates, were behaviorally the most efficient, removed the bulk of seeds and, after feeding, tended to fly preferentially towards the apparently safest sites for growth and survival of saplings. They were also most heavily dependent on P. mahaleb fruits for food, whereas the other disperser species relied largely on insects. Individual plant location and dispersers' habitat preferences produced a differential seeding pattern over the patchy habitat surrounding study trees. The @'key@' dispersers T. merula and S. atricapilla are specialized frugivores, efficiently dispersing seeds of a plant producing large numbers of extremely low-reward fruits. These results conflict with theoretical expectations and suggest that both the nature of the correlation between bird- and plant-related coevolutionary gradients and their amplitudes, as well as the nature of bird-plant coevolutionary interactions, may differ between tropical and temperate habitats.
10.2307/2937230|The bottomland forest on Horseshoe Lake Island, located on the Mississippi alluvial plain in Alexander County, Illinois in comprised of 2 stands, one relatively undisturbed and the other which is recovering from disturbance in the late 1800s or early 1900s. In both stands vegetational structure, gradient relationships, diversity and size-class characteristics were studied. In the old-growth stand, 35 soil-site variables were measured or estimated for interpretation of vegetational patterns and species distributions. Both direct and indirect gradient analyses were evaluated for use in floodplain forest studies and ultimately the indirect approach with multiple regression interpretation was used to construct a gradient model of the vegetation. Basal area and density of the old-growth and floristic composition of both stands are typical of much of the original Southern Floodplain Forest. The coenocline was divided into 3 segments, mesic, transition and wet with the first and last corresponding to the ridge and hardwood bottoms described by Braun (1950). The important species on the ridge bottoms are Acer saccharum, Asimina triloba, Liquidambar styraciflua, Ulumus rubra, Quercus rubra and Tilia americana and are associated with well-drained soils and infrequent flooding. The transitional segment is dominated by Asimina triloba, Liquidambar styraciflua, Quercus michauxii, Quercus muhlenbergii and Ulmus americana with Quercus pagodaefolia and Quercus shumardii as associates on moderately heavy and poorly drained soils with intermediate flooding. The hardwood bottom sites are dominated by Acer rubrum, Fraxinus pennsylvanica, Liquidambar styraciflua and Ulmus americana and may be flooded for several months each year and have heavy textured, poorly drained soils. Multiple regression analysis with ridge regression revealed that Fraxinus americana and Acer saccharum have wider tolerances to flooding and poor aeration than previously reported. Importance Values of several species were related to duration and depth of flooding, soil mottling and soil texture indicating that distributions are affected by a site-inundation, soil drainage-aeration complex. Diversity of the tree stratum is comparable with that found in some of the mixed mesophytic forests elsewhere. Due to competition from Asimina triloba and Aesculus discolor and possibly some environmental limitations due to the northern location of the stands, the shrub-sapling stratum is depauperate. Along the coenocline from mesic to wet sites density and equitability decrease while basal area increases. Size-class analysis indicates that both the negative power and negative exponential functions fit the size-class distribution for the 2 stands but that neither is entirely appropriate. The old-growth stand is characterized by 3 groups of individuals each with different mortality rates which give a plateaued deviation from each model. The secondary stand is more balanced and does not exhibit a well developed plateau. A comparison of individual species reveals that various regeneration patterns are present which range from uneven-aged (sized) in the case of Acer saccharum to even-aged for Fagus grandifolia, Quercus rubra and Ulmus rubra. The plateaued pattern in the old-growth stand does not reflect past disturbance but apparently is a characteristic of this forest. The principal mode of regeneration in this stand is gap-phase replacement.
40385220|All metacommunity theories incorporate dispersal as a key process influencing community composition. If communities are examined across a habitat-patch isolation gradient, different metacommunity theories predict contrasting patterns of community divergence and responses of rare species. We used bird and reptile data collected in three years from 168 habitat patches in a fragmented agricultural landscape, and bird data gathered from 63 remnants embedded in a pine plantation over two years to examine predictions arising from six metacommunity theories: A, neutral; B, species sorting; C, species sorting at low isolation but neutral at high isolation; D, neutral at low isolation but species sorting at high isolation; E, mass effects; and F, patch dynamics. We identified three classes of predictions arising from these theories that we could test using community survey data: (1) trajectories of rare species across an isolation gradient; (2) the influence of geographic distance, environmental parameters, and patch isolation on pair-wise comparisons of community divergence; and (3) the influence of isolation and environmental parameters on the divergence of communities from a regional species pool. Some analyses indicated moderately common support for neutral and species-sorting concepts, often acting simultaneously. Opposite responses by different groups of rare species to the isolation gradient showed that neutral and patch-dynamic processes may act on different components of the same community. Different analyses provided support for different theories, and so helped us to avoid being misled by a single analysis. However, generally we found very little consistent support for any of the metacommunity theories. Our analyses suggested that different metacommunity mechanisms act ephemerally, sometimes simultaneously and on different subsets of the fauna in different regions. The complexity of responses means that metacommunity ideas cannot yet be used predictively in a management context. We encourage further testing of the multiple predictions that arise from current metacommunity concepts, using additional data sets. However, if metacommunity processes act simultaneously and ephemerally, the predictions of any one metacommunity theory may be hard to detect at the community level. In that case, examining the ecology of multiple species in the same landscape may be needed to characterize metacommunity processes in nature.
27646140|The natural enemies hypothesis has led to a number of ideas by which invaders might evolve superior competitive ability. In this context, we compared growth, reproduction, competitive effect, competitive response, and defense capabilities between invasive North American populations of Centaurea maculosa and populations in Europe, where the species is native. We found that Centaurea from North America were larger than plants from European populations. North American Centaurea also demonstrated stronger competitive effects and responses than European Centaurea. However, competitive superiority did not come at a cost to herbivore defense. North American plants were much better defended against generalist insect herbivores and slightly better defended against specialists. North Americans showed a stronger inhibitory effect on the consumers (resistance) and a better ability to regrow after attack by herbivores (tolerance). Better defense by North Americans corresponded with higher constitutive levels of a biochemical defense compound precursor, tougher leaves, and more leaf trichomes than Europeans. North American F1 progeny of field collected lines retained the traits of larger size and greater leaf toughness suggesting that genetic differences, rather than maternal effects, may be the cause of intercontinental differences, but these sample sizes were small. Our results suggest that the evolution of increased competitive ability may not always be driven by physiological trade-offs between the allocation of energy or resources to growth or to defense. Instead, we hypothesize that Centaurea maculosa experiences strong directional selection on novel competitive and defense traits in its new range.
10.2307/2657161|Savannas with scattered oak canopies, once the most widespread communities in southern Wisconsin, now are among the most endangered. Surprisingly little is known about the composition, structure, and horizontal patterning of their species-rich ground layers. This study relates the distribution and ecological characteristics of 417 ground-layer species to local and regional gradients in soil composition and light regime, based on an analysis of 722 1-m
10.2307/3100026|Beginning in the late 1980s, white-band disease nearly eliminated the staghorn coral Acropora cervicornis from reefs in the central shelf lagoon of Belize. The lettuce coral Agaricia tenuifolia replaced Acropora cervicornis in the early 1990s, but anomalously high water temperatures in 1998 caused severe bleaching and catastrophic mortality of Agaricia tenuifolia. The short-lived transition in dominance from Acropora cervicornis to Agaricia tenuifolia left an unambiguous signature in the fossil record of these uncemented lagoonal reefs. Analysis of 38 cores, extracted from 22 sampling stations in a 375-km
10.2307/1942457|The species composition of pools in the intertidal zone on the coast of Washington State varies greatly from pool to pool and from time to time. While assemblages change somewhat predictably from the low- to the high-intertidal zone (presumably owing to different stress tolerances of the species), the variance among pools at a given tidal height cannot be ascribed to such physical factors. Some pools at each height are dominated by one species that monopolizes space on the rock or in the water column and modifies the pool environment. Each dominant species, once established, can spread rapidly through a pool (either by vegetative growth or by enhanced recruitment of its conspecifics) and is thus potentially self-perpetuating. When abundant, most dominants appear to prevent potential competitors from settling and surviving by monopolization of resources, abrasion of the substratum, and/or collection of sediment. Six such dominants were identified for Washington tidepools: from low to high pools, these are (1) the surfgrass Phyllospadix scouleri, (2) articulated coralline algae, (3) the mussel Mytilus californianus (exposed shores), (4) the cloning anemone Anthopleura elegantissima (more protected shores), (5) the red alga Rhodomela larix, and (6) the green alga Cladophora sp. Colonial diatoms also appear capable of dominating low pools in the absence of wave disturbance. However, each dominant monopolizes only 20-50% of the pools at any height. Disturbances, defined here as a loss of biomass exceeding 10% cover of a sessile species within 6 mo and caused by extrinsic forces, were observed frequently in regularly censused tidepools. Disturbance agents included waves, excessive heat, wave-driven logs or rocks, and unusual influxes of predators and herbivores. Severe disturbances (those affecting a large proportion of the organisms in a pool) tended to occur in high pools in the summer (due to heat stress) and low pools in the winter (due to wave damage). Overall, a disturbance occurred in every pool studied an average of every 1.6 yr. About half of the 231 observed disturbances affected one of the six dominant species. The frequencies of these disturbances ranged from one every 2-5 yr, and recovery of the species to its original level required 3 mo to > 2 yr. Some species (e.g., Rhodomela) were disturbed frequently bu recovered quickly because of rapid vegetative growth. However if asexual propagation was not possible, such as when the entire population of a species was removed from a pool, the slowness and irregularity of recruitment of sexual propagules greatly impeded recovery. Experimental manipulations involving the total removal of dominant species from pools showed that such large disturbances often require > 3 yr for recovery. The irregularity of planktonic recruitment can be compounded by the presence of herbivores, which can remove most settling organisms from the substratum, or by the absence of other organisms that are necessary for the settlement of a dominant (e.g., seed-attachment sites for Phyllospadix). The combination of high disturbance frequency and slow rates of recovery makes it impossible for any dominant to occupy all the pools in its tidal range at any one time. Disturbance is viewed in these habitats as the stochastic factor overlying other, more predictable, community-structuring factors such as tidal height, pool size, wave exposure, and levels of herbivory, predation, and competition. Thus combined deterministic processes and random events operate to produce a complex mosaic of species assemblages in pools in one region. None of the tidepool assemblages is @'stable@' over many generations; rather, they seem to exist in a dynamic state where disturbances are an integral structuring factor.
4539112|Error analysis using Gaussian error propagation (GEP) can be used to analytically determine the error or uncertainty produced by multiple and interacting measurements or variables. The technique is especially useful for studies that involve step-by-step calculations, where measurements taken at a smaller temporal or spatial scale are used to estimate a value at larger scales (e.g., daily total tree-crown carbon assimilation is estimated from carbon assimilation rate per unit leaf area per unit time). The GEP technique is not well known and rarely used in ecology. The purpose of this paper is to illustrate the concepts and methods of GEP in a manner that is accessible and relevant to students and researchers in ecology. The technique is also extended to calculate the "error budget" and "sensitivity indices" of error sources. The concept of the "error structure" of an experiment or calculation is introduced, and different partitioning methods and optimization strategies for analyzing and reducing error, which further develop the potential usefulness of GEP, are shown. An example of its application to ecological data is demonstrated using the post-ice-storm-downed woody-biomass data set, previously reported by M. C. Hooper, K. Arii, and M. J. Lechowicz. Both the data and the error analysis can be viewed as being representative of and relevant to a general class of step-by-step and scaling-up ecological calculations. Finally the use of GEP reveals that the error structure is a scale-dependent quantity, a result that is relevant to both scaling theory and experimental design.
4134788|Global climate and atmospheric changes may interact in their effects on the diversity and composition of natural communities. We followed responses of an annual grassland to three years of all possible combinations of experimentally elevated CO
20787442|Functional diversity is the diversity of species traits in ecosystems. This concept is increasingly used in ecological research, yet its formal definition and measurements are currently under discussion. As the overall behavior and consistency of functional diversity indices have not been described so far, the novice user risks choosing an inaccurate index or a set of redundant indices to represent functional diversity. In our study we closely examine functional diversity indices to clarify their accuracy, consistency, and independence. Following current theory, we categorize them into functional richness, evenness, or divergence indices. We considered existing indices as well as new indices developed in this study. The new indices aimed at remedying the weaknesses of currently used indices (e.g., by taking into account intraspecific variability). Using virtual data sets, we test (1) whether indices respond to community changes as expected from their category and (2) whether the indices within each category are consistent and independent of indices from other categories. We also test the accuracy of methods proposed for the use of categorical traits. Most classical functional richness indices either failed to describe functional richness or were correlated with functional divergence indices. We therefore recommend using the new functional richness indices that consider intraspecific variability and thus empty space in the functional niche space. In contrast, most functional evenness and divergence indices performed well with respect to all proposed tests. For categorical variables, we do not recommend blending discrete and real-valued traits (except for indices based on distance measures) since functional evenness and divergence have no transposable meaning for discrete traits. Nonetheless, species diversity indices can be applied to categorical traits (using trait levels instead of species) in order to describe functional richness and equitability.
10.2307/1942231|Three contiguous ecosystems, an upland oak forest, marginal fen, and cedar swamp, were analyzed along a gentle topographic gradient on the Anoka Sand Plain in east-central Minnesota. The organic structure and aboveground primary productivities of these forests were compared with similar data for other natural ecosystems of the sand plain. Living, aboveground biomass totals of the oak, fen, and swamp forests were 124.6, 98.8, and 159.6 mt/ha, respectively. Aboveground, net annual productivities were 8.9, 7.1, and 10.3 mt/ha, respectively, which compared well with other forest data for the region and with a predicted value based on actual evapotranspiration. Several measures of structure were compared in the analysis. Species richness and equitability were greatest in the marginal fen where biomass and productivity were the least. Richness and equitability were lowest in the oak forest. The highest biomass-to-production ratio was found for the Thuja swamp, although it had the highest annual production. Apparently the high production in the swamp was achieved with a large mass of relatively inefficient foliage concentrated in Thuja occidentalis. The percentages of primary production entering detritus pathways were 52, 62, and 48 for oak, fen, and swamp, respectively. Total detritus, including dead boles, branches, and forest floors, was large in relation to living biomass in all three forests, but was especially important in the fen and swamp systems where deep forest floors had accumulated. Total detritus was 61%, 331%, and 577% of aboveground biomass in the oak, fen, and swamp, respectively. All data were produced in caloric as well as weight units.
4539096|Herbivores highly reduce the performance of many plant species. However, little empirical information exists on the real effect that these organisms have on plant populations. With a long-term (seven-year) ungulate exclusion experiment in two areas of southeastern Spain, I demonstrated that these organisms can affect not only individual performance, but also the population dynamics and spatial structure of two short-lived monocarpic herbs, Erysimum mediohispanicum and E. baeticum. There was between-year and among-microhabitat variability in damage, with plants growing under shrubs being less damaged than those growing in open sites. Ungulates consumed flowers and fruits, severely decreasing plant reproductive output. The postdispersal seed predation rate increased after ungulates were excluded, presumably as a consequence of the relaxation of competition between seed predators and ungulates. The effect of ungulates on Erysimum early establishment was nonsignificant, although >50% of Erysimum seedlings died due to ungulate trampling. The exclusion experiment also revealed that, as a consequence of their impact on seed production, ungulates affected the population dynamics of their host plants; their removal produced a significant increase in the abundance of the two studied plant species. Furthermore, habitat distribution of plants was also influenced by the activity of ungulates. In control plots, most Erysimum individuals grew under the canopy of co-occurring shrubs. In contrast, a dramatic spatial redistribution of plants occurred in ungulate-excluded plots, where they started to colonize open sites. Consequently, the spatial structure of the plants excluded from ungulates significantly differed from that in control plots and became statistically similar to the structure expected according to the cover of every microhabitat. Finally, this experiment revealed that, for plants inhabiting heterogeneous landscapes, abundance and spatial structure are tightly related. Thus, I found that abundance increased in ungulate-excluded plots due not to a general and homogeneous increase, but to a significant increase in those microhabitats inaccessible to ungulates in control plots. These findings suggest that herbivory effects on plants are intricate, affecting not only their performance or population dynamics, but also their habitat distribution and niche structure.
23047056|How the effects of biotic factors are moderated by abiotic factors, and their consequences for species interactions, is generally understudied in ecology. A key abiotic feature of forests is regular canopy disturbances that create temporary patches, or "gaps," of above-average light availability. Co-occurring in lowland primary forest of Korup National Park (Cameroon), Microberlinia bisulcata and Tetraberlinia bifoliolata are locally dominant, ectomycorrhizal trees whose seeds share predator guilds in masting years. Here, we experimentally tested the impact of small mammal predators upon seedling abundance, growth, and survivorship. In 2007, we added a fixed density of seeds of each species to exclosures at 48 gapunderstory locations across 82.5 ha within a large Microberlinia grove, and at 15 locations outside it. For both species, small mammals removed more seeds in gaps than in understory, whereas this was reversed for seeds killed by invertebrates. Nonetheless, Microberlinia lost twice as many seeds to small mammals, and more to invertebrates in exclosures, than Tetraberlinia, which was more prone to a pathogenic white fungus. After six weeks, both species had greater seedling establishment in gaps than understory, and in exclosures outside compared to exclosures inside the grove. In the subsequent two-year period, seedling growth and survivorship peaked in exclosures in gaps, but Microberlinia had more seedlings' stems clipped by animals than Tetraberlinia, and more than twice the percentage of leaf area damaged. Whereas Microberlinia seedling performance in gaps was inferior to Tetraberlinia inside the grove, outside it Microberlinia had reduced leaf damage, grew taller, and had many more leaves than Tetraberlinia. No evidence was found for "apparent mutualism" in the understory as seedling establishment of both species increased away from (>25 m) large stems of either species, pointing to "apparent competition" instead. In gaps, Microberlinia seedling establishment was lower near Tetraberlinia than conspecific adults because of context-dependent small mammal satiation. Stage-matrix analysis suggested that protecting Microberlinia from small mammals could increase its population growth rate by 0.06. In the light of prior research we conclude that small mammals and canopy gaps play an important role in promoting species coexistence in this forest, and that their strong interaction contributes to Microberlinia's currently very poor regeneration.
10.2307/1942424|Data on tree species composition and population structure are used as a source of ecological information on the species-rich forest of Barro Colorado Island, Panama Canal Zone (BCI). Thirteen stands, representing both the young and old forest on the Island, were sampled using 10 m @? 20 m quadrats for all individuals @?2.5 cm dbh. Over 300 species were encountered and most were identified. The data are evaluated for interpreting late secondary succession (>60 yr), detecting soil-vegetation patterns, and for yielding autecological information. Successional status was estimated by placing species with similar population structure patterns into groups, and then calculating the abundance of species groups that seemed indicative of successional status. Five population structure patterns were recognized. The results suggest that the older BCI forest is not climax after at least 130 yr of succession. Both principal components analysis and a Bray-Curtis type ordination were used to determine whether ecological patterns on BCI are reflected by species composition. Forest age was best reflected by an ordination of the larger tree species. Species found only in the young forest or only in the older forest are identified. Stands with a distinctive gley soil were not segregated on the ordination. Species diversity increases most rapidly during the first 15 yr of succession, but continues to increase slowly after 65 yr. The Shannon-Wiener diversity measure averaged 4.8 (log base 2). Some data suggest that wind-caused canopy gaps are important for the persistence of several species in the older forest, e.g., Cecropia sp.
4539078|A recent model predicts that species interactions in benthic marine communities vary predictably with upwelling regimes. To test this model, we studied the Pisaster-Mytilus interaction at 14 rocky intertidal sites distributed among three oceanographic regions along a 1300-km stretch of the U.S. West Coast. Regions included an intermittent-upwelling region (northern), a persistent-upwelling region (central), and a region of weak and infrequent upwelling (southern). We quantified predation rates by the sea star Pisaster ochraceus on its main prey Mytilus californianus by transplanting mussels into the sea star's low-zone foraging range and comparing the rate of mussel loss in + Pisaster plots to those in -Pisaster plots. To evaluate the relation between predation rates and key ecological processes and conditions, we quantified phytoplankton concentration and rates of mussel recruitment, mussel growth, mussel abundance, and sea star abundance. Predictions of the model are expressed as responses of predator and prey abundance, and species interaction strength (per capita and per population or total impact at the population level). As predicted by theory, per capita predation rates were independent of upwelling regime, with no variation with region. Contrary to expectation however, per-population predation rates were similar between intermittent- and persistent-upwelling regions but were greater under strong upwelling than under weak upwelling conditions. The greatest variation in per-population predation rates was at the level of site within region. Also contrary to theory, average abundances of prey (mussel cover) and predators (sea stars) were similar among oceanographic regions and varied mostly at the site level. As expected from theory, predation rate was high where sea star density was high, a condition that often coincided with a high food supply (phytoplankton) for filter feeders, including larvae, and high recruitment. With the exception of two sites having dense sea star populations and thus high predation, low values of either or both were associated with low predation, suggesting that the supply of prey often depended on conditions that favored subsidies of both phytoplankton and new larvae to prey populations. The occurrence of high predator density and high predation at sites of low inputs of particulate food and propagules suggests that understanding sea star life history is a key to a fuller understanding of variation in predation on a coastal scale. Evidence suggests that often sporadic recruitment of sea stars along the coast is balanced by great longevity, which tends to even out predation impact on coastal intertidal communities.
10.2307/1942264|Factors contributing to breeding success of puffins were studied on Great Island, Newfoundland, in 1968 and 1969. Puffin burrow density was negatively correlated with distance from the cliff edge and positively correlated with angle of slope. These correlations are biologically significant in that close to the cliff edge, where the angle of slope was steep, breeding success was significantly higher than on adjacent level habitat. In spring both habitats were occupied simultaneously, and nest-site tenacity was equally strong in them. During settlement the frequency of fighting was higher and the peak was reached earlier on slope habitat. Males were heavier on slope than on level habitat just after peak egg laying, although wing lengths were similar. Females were similar on the two habitats. Measurements of eggs from both habitat were the same. Egg-laying dates were also similar, but annual variation was greater on level than on slope habitat, as was variation within a single year. Hatching success was higher on slope habitat, mainly because the incidence of egg disappearance was lower during incubation; also the frequency of infertile eggs was greater on level habitat. Fledging success was higher on slope habitat, and higher on both habitats in 1969. Frequency of chick deaths in the nest and disappearance before fledging was higher on level habitat in both years. Fledging success was higher for early-hatched chicks in both habitats. Total breeding success was higher on slope habitat, and higher in both habitats in 1969. Fledging condition of chicks varied according to the habitat and time period in which they were raised. On the average, body weight at fledging was greater and less variable for birds on slope habitat; early-hatched chicks were heaviest in both habitats. Wing length of young at fledging did not differ. Early-hatched chicks on slope habitat fledged quickest (also quicker than early-hatched chicks on level habitat); late-hatched birds on slope fledged slower than late-hatched birds on level habitat. Age at fledging was greater in 1968 than in 1969 on both habitats. Meal size delivered to chicks by parents was the same on the two habitats, but frequency of feeding was greater on slope than level habitat. Breeding pairs on slope habitat were unable to raise two chicks (artificial twins) to fledging; similarly, one adult could not rear a single chick. Adults feeding chicks on level habitat were attacked and robbed more frequently by gulls than birds on slope habitat, probably because escape (take-off) from an attack was quicker on slope than on level ground. Experiments performed to determine causes of the differential egg and chick loss before fledging in the two habitats showed that during incubation the proportion of eggs displaced to the burrow entrance by incubating birds when leaving the burrow in a hurry was the same, but the rate of panic flights was higher on level habitat. Also, chicks when starved spent more time at the burrow entrance than when fed regularly. It is concluded that the difference in breeding success on the two habitats was due to a higher exposure of eggs and chicks to gull predation on level habitat. The primary cause for this differential exposure was that adults on slope habitat were less vulnerable to gull disturbance during incubation and gull robbery when feeding their chicks. Thus breeding failures resulted from the interactions of food shortage and gull interference. This conclusion was tested by comparing breeding performance of birds at Great Island with birds at two islands where gull interference was absent. Egg and chick survival was greater under @'gull-free@' conditions. In addition, body weights at fledging were higher and less variable at the colonies without gull interference than at Great Island. The ways in which natural selection acts upon puffins at the breeding colony are considered; a model relating puffin nest distribution and habitat features is presented, and predictions which might be tested are outlined.
10.2307/1942439|A year's study was made of 13 species of mammals in a desert community in southeastern Arizona. Mammal density averaged 17.4/ha: 66% Dipodomys merriami and 10.5% Onychomys torridus. Average biomass was 1130 g/ha: 40% D. merriami and 40% Lepus californicus. Annual energy flow of mammals was 105,950 kcal/ha: 55% by a granivore (D. merriami), 22% by a browser (L. californicus) and 6.5% by an insectivore (O. torridus). 94.6% of the energy flow was spent in maintenance and 5.4% in growth. The secondary productivity of the dominant D. merriami was 1.2% of its energy flow; that of Peromyscus eremicus, the resident species with the lowest and least stable density, was 1.7%. A dominant species may be more important in the cycling of matter in the community, while nondominants may be more important in stabilizing the community and sustaining the higher trophic levels. Since the mammals dissipated only 1.95% of the net annual above ground plant production, their importance must be in their controlling actions on the community rather than in their energy turnover. The mammals got 49.3% of their caloric intake from seeds, destroying about 86.5% of the seed production: 40.9% of their calories were from leaves and stems (1.1% of shoot production). The behavior of D. merriami in shucking and burrying Larrea seeds may enhance the survival of seedlings. The browsing mammals pruned 4% of shrub production (eating only half of this); this pruning may increase productivity of shrubs. The efficiencies with which mammals ate available plant foods were: 2.3% for shrub browse, 2.8% for herbage, 7.4% for cactus, and 86.5% for seeds. Species' efficiencies of ingestion varied from 10.1% for D. merriami to 0.09% for several species. In their secondary production, the mammals directly transferred only 0.016% of the energy of the net above ground plant production to the third trophic level. The amount of plant food available to small mammals in a desert shrub community is about the same as in deciduous forest, but less than in old-field grassland. The percentage of the available food that is used by mammals is about the same in these communities. D. merriami may be adapted to be more efficient in consuming available energy and in utilizing it in growth than are rodents in more productive communities.
10.2307/1942579|Avian communities living in a complex environment were studied by censuses of singing males, using several levels of resolution which focussed on different properties of the community. Within each level of resolution, various community parameters in two grassland habitat types were calculated over the entire breeding season, and for census intervals within the breeding season. The community level of resolution focussed on community-wide patterns, such as total density and total biomass, in order to reveal constraints operating on all species in each habitat. An intermediate level of resolution focussed on relative properties of species such as relative abundances, species richness, and dominance concentration. At the individual species level of resolution, densities and identities of species were the properties upon which the analysis focussed. These techniques allowed characterization of responses of the avian communities to complex changes in the system in which they were embedded. Long-term averages in monthly rainfall on the sites used for this study indicated a bimodal distribution of rainfall. The first peak occurred in December and the second in July and August. During the two years of study, summer rainfall was similar, but winter rainfall in 1983 was @?2-3 times as great as in 1982. Avian communities in habitats with mesquite trees (mesquite savannah) responded differently than communities in grassland habitats, and these responses could be seen at different levels of resolution. Peak densities and biomass occurred during May-June in mesquite savannah habitats, while grassland communities achieved highest densities and biomass during July and August. Average density per individual showed little seasonal pattern, but was lower for mesquite savannah communities than for grassland communities. Species richness increased in mesquite savannah habitats in 1983, but decreased in grassland habitats that year. Patterns of evenness and dominance concentration suggested that in 1983, rare species of large body size were added to the community in mesquite savannah, while in grassland habitats, species already present during 1982 increased in density. A community ordination revealed that mesquite savannah habitats were dominated numerically by small-bodied insectivorous species during the early part of the breeding season but became similar to grassland communities in July and August. Grassland communities were dominated by large-bodied emberizine finches. These characteristics of the avian communities corresponded closely to the phenology of important primary producers. Mesquite produces leaves high in nutritional value and produces flowers during April-June; thereafter older leaves decline in nutrient content and flowers disappear. These changes in mesquite productivity undoubtedly produce corresponding changes in insect communities exploitable by small-bodied insectivores. Perennial grasses concentrate aboveground productivity to July-August and insect communities associated with grasses increased in biomass during this period, thus increasing resources available for breeding. These results suggest that avian community responses to complex changes in their environments can be identified and related to outside inputs into the environment, such as rainfall. Identification of community responses is facilitated by emphasis on several observational scales. Communities appear individualistic to observers because (1) adaptational units of species are probably much larger than study areas; (2) species ability to adapt to local conditions might be diluted by gene flow among populations; and (3) if most evolutionary change occurs during speciation, then species adaptations will reflect a relatively narrow range of selection pressures that operated briefly on the species during the past.
10.2307/2937117|The extent to which insect communities are organized is poorly understood because few studies have examined both population-level processes and community-level patterns. Furthermore, our view of phytophagous insect populations is probably biased by the more frequent attention given to economic pests whose dynamics might be expected to be somewhat exceptional. Herein, we report on the population dynamics and community-level features in a diverse, native fauna of phytophagous insects associated with goldenrod (Solidago altissima), a native perennial plant that forms a dominant, long-persisting element in old-field succession. The data consist of censuses taken in six consecutive years at 16 old fields in the Finger Lakes Region of New York; five additional stands were followed for four consecutive years. Our analyses address two questions: (a) to what extent is the functional structure of the community (as reflected in such attributes to the herbivore load, guild spectrum, and dominance hierarchy) maintained by compensatory changes in the densities of the member species and (b) are certain traits associated with a species' tendency to fluctuate in density or to dominate the community? In general, populations of goldenrod insects fluctuated less than those of insects reported in the literature. Few were abundant; only 7 of the 138 species in the goldenrod fauna ever reached densities at which their biomass exceeded 0.1% of the leaf biomass. The functional structure of the community, as reflected in the total herbivore load and the proportions of that load contributed by various guilds, varied widely in space and time. A small subset of the fauna remained dominant throughout the study; these species, whose populations occasionally irrupted, retained their high rank in relative abundance even during those periods when their populations were waning. There was no evidence for compensatory changes in the densities of species within guilds, as would be expected if a relatively distinct set of limiting resources were available to insects with different feeding styles. Species were no more likely to exhibit negative correlations with their guild mates than they were with members of other guilds. There was also little evidence of sporadic or diffuse competition within the fauna as a whole; even during population outbreaks, the dominant species rarely engendered decreases in the biomass or diversity of the remaining species, and increases in the total herbivore load were seldom associated with losses of species from the community. Several species were positively associated with one another on the basis of similar habitat requirements or the use by one species of conditions created by the presence of another. The community was predictable only in the sense that dominant species remained dominant and rare species rare. The abundance and population variability of species were not correlated with such traits as body size, generation time, or host range. Taxon-related trends, on the other hand, stood out; coleopterans tended to be abundant whereas lepidopterans were rare, and hemipterans tended to fluctuate widely whereas dipterans remained relatively constant. Furthermore, species that were clumped in space (onto stems within fields) tended to be abundant and variable. The @'boom and bust@' dynamics of these aggregating species may be related to the ability of colonies to survive the inroads of generalist predators. The low degree of regional synchrony in the performance of populations at different sites suggests that large-scale, weather-driven fluctuations are uncommon. Our analysis of this well-developed, native insect fauna reveals a community that has a somewhat predictable structure that reflects the idiosyncracies of the component species. These species do not fluctuate in an integrated community-structuring manner, but as an outcome of each species performing at its @'individualistic@' level, the community displays a characteristic dominance hierarchy. The members of this diverse fauna rarely achieve densities at which they compete with one another. Our results are consistent with Hairston, Smith, and Slobodkin's hypothesis (1960) which predicts that terrestrial herbivores rarely deplete plant resources to levels at which there is widespread interspecific competition.
10.2307/1943044|This paper presents pollen and macrofossil stratigraphies derived from sediment cores taken near the deepest parts of Nina Lake (46@?36' N, 81@?30' W), Jack Lake (47@?19' N, 81@?46' W), and Lake Six (48@?24' N, 81@?19' W), which are situated along a transect across the ecotone between the boreal forest and the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence forest in northern Ontario. Paleoecological data from this region of steep climatic gradient and varied landforms provide sensitive records of postglacial vegetational and climatic changes. These data are used to evaluate questions concerning the occurrence of late-glacial vegetation communities without modern analog. Hypsithermal ecotonal movements, and individualistic species response to climatic change and soil development. The early postglacial boreal forest that colonized the Canadian Shield upland after ca. 10 000 BP was dominated by white spruce with little or no black spruce, and probably contained more oak, elm, poplar, and heliophytic herbs and shrubs than its modern counterpart. Its lack of modern analog is probably due to the widespread occurrence of fresh, unleached soil in a newly deglaciated landscape. Spruce declined and was replaced by jack pine after ca. 9000 BP as the climate continued to warm. The boreal forest was enriched floristically by the successive immigration of species such as Myrica. Alnus crispa, and A. rugosa. Boreal forest was transformed into Great Lakes-St. Lawrence forest ca. 7400 yr ago when white pine, beech, and hemlock immigrated to Nina Lake. Species of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence forest responded individualistically to Hypsithermal climatic changes. White pine populations continued to spread northward during ca. 7000-3000 BP, causing the boreal forest/Great Lakes-St. Lawrence forest ecotone to advance ca. 140 km north of its present position, only constrained by the physiographic boundary between the Clay Belt and the Canadian Shield upland. During 6000-4500 BP northern white cedar proliferated in the Clay Belt lowlands due to a warmer and drier climate. The regional water table was lowered, permitting Thuja populations that were otherwise restricted to the margins of swamps and open peatlands to spread to the center. This vegetation response was landform selective, being more pronounced in the Clay Belt than on the Canadian Shield upland. The predominance of calcareous substrates and wetland habitats in the Clay Belt was favorable to the expansion of Thuja under a suitable climate. Neoglacial cooling decimated the populations of northern white cedar in the Clay Belt and those of white pine in the whole region. Spruce, jack pine, and balsam fir increased over the last 4000 yr. The ecotone retreated from near Lake Six after 3000 BP, reaching Jack Lake at ca. 2600 BP, and was stabilized in its modern position during the last millennium.
10.2307/2657165|David Lack proposed that parental feeding ability ultimately limited clutch size in bird species in which the young were dependent upon their parents for food. However, many species can raise broods that are larger than their normal clutch size. Based on nine years of experimental results from an individually marked population of Eastern Kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus) breeding in central New York (USA), I test six hypotheses that have been proposed as explanations for why birds fail to lay larger, seemingly more productive clutch sizes. I modified brood sizes by adding or removing 1-2 nestlings when broods were 1-3 d old and then documented the effects of brood size and manipulated brood size on nestling size and survivorship, offspring recruitment, adult survival, and future adult reproduction. Most first clutches of the season held three eggs (62% of 503 clutches), but the proportion of young to fledge did not vary with brood size (1-5 young), and as a result, broods of five were the most productive. Lack's basic food-limitation model was thus rejected. Although nestling mass and ninth-primary length at fledging declined with brood size, offspring survival during the immediate 10-12 d period after fledging was unrelated to nestling mass or lengths of the tarsus or ninth primary. The findings that the underweight young in broods of four and five did not suffer disproportionate mortality and that they were just as likely to appear as recruits in future years led to a rejection of the extended version of Lack's food-limitation model. Comparisons of annual variation in the relationship between productivity and brood size showed that productivity increased with brood size in eight of nine years (significant in six years). Thus, high temporal stochastic variation in conditions for rearing young (the "bad-years" hypothesis) is unlikely to explain the relatively small clutch size of kingbirds. Predictions of two other hypotheses that predict asymmetrically low survivorship of young in large broods (the "cliff-edge" and "brood-parasitism" hypotheses) were also rejected. On the other hand, evidence suggested that females individualize clutch size such that each female lays a clutch that matches her individual feeding ability. Although fledgling production was not adversely affected by experimental increases in brood size, most enlarged broods lost young during the 10-12 d immediately after fledging. Thus, enlarged broods ultimately produced no more independent young than did control broods that began with the same number of eggs. Fledgling deaths were not related to nestling mass or size, and recruitment was independent of manipulations. Survival and fecundity costs of reproduction also existed for females. Male survival (68%) was independent of the number of young that had been raised (0-5 young), and future breeding efforts were not compromised by elevated effort in the past year. However, females that raised broods of five were less likely to return to breed in the following year (42%) than were females that raised 2-4 young (62%). Among the survivors, females that raised enlarged broods in the preceding year also experienced more hatching failure and fledged fewer young than females that raised reduced broods in the preceding year. I suggest that costs of reproduction probably set the ultimate limit to clutch size in Eastern Kingbirds. I did not test the hypothesis that high rates of nest predation favor the evolution of small clutch size, but given that predators destroyed 50% of nests each year, it is also likely that nest predation has contributed to the evolution of the current clutch size of kingbirds. Whether a female produces a clutch of three or four eggs is probably determined by individual differences in parental ability, which may be related to either intrinsic properties of the female or territory quality.
27646097|Savannas are the major biome of tropical regions, spanning 30% of the Earth's land surface. Tree: grass ratios of savannas are inherently unstable and can be shifted easily by changes in fire, grazing, or climate. We synthesize the history and ecological impacts of the rapid expansion and eradication of an exotic large herbivore, the Asian water buffalo (Bubalus bubalus), on the mesic savannas of Kakadu National Park (KNP), a World Heritage Park located within the Alligator Rivers Region (ARR) of monsoonal north Australia. The study inverts the experience of the Serengeti savannas where grazing herds rapidly declined due to a rinderpest epidemic and then recovered upon disease control. Buffalo entered the ARR by the 1880s, but densities were low until the late 1950s when populations rapidly grew to carrying capacity within a decade. In the 1980s, numbers declined precipitously due to an eradication program. We show evidence that the rapid population expansion and sudden removal of this exotic herbivore created two ecological cascades by altering ground cover abundance and composition, which in turn affected competitive regimes and fuel loads with possible further, long-term effects due to changes in fire regimes. Overall, ecological impacts varied across a northsouth gradient in KNP that corresponded to the interacting factors of precipitation, landform, and vegetation type but was also contingent upon the history of buffalo harvest. Floodplains showed the greatest degree of impact during the period of rapid buffalo expansion, but after buffalo removal, they largely reverted to their prior state. Conversely, the woodlands experienced less visible impact during the first cascade. However, in areas of low buffalo harvest and severe impact, there was little recruitment of juvenile trees into the canopy due to the indirect effects of grazing and high frequency of prescribed fires once buffalo were removed. Rain forests were clearly heavily impacted during the first cascade, but the long term consequences of buffalo increase and removal remain unclear. Due to hysteresis effects, the simple removal of an exotic herbivore was not sufficient to return savanna systems to their previous state.
10.2307/1942321|Studies of the benthos between 30 and 60 m at Cape Armitage, McMurdo Sound. Antarctica, reveal an epifaunal community in which sponges and their asteroid and nudibranch predators predominate. Field experiments demonstrated that, with the exception of Mycale accrata, the growth rates of the sponges are too slow to measure in one year. Mycale, however, was observed to increase its mass as much as 67%. Because of its more rapid growth rate, Mycale appears to be the potential dominant in competition for substratum space, the resource potentially limiting to the sessile species. This conclusion is supported by observations of Mycale growing over and, in some cases, apparently having smothered many other sessile species representing at least three phyla. The densities and size frequency distributions of all the predators were measured; numerous feeding observations allowed an accurate appraisal of dietary compositions. Because of the predators' very slow consumption rates, however, direct measures of ingestion and its impact on prey populations were not possible. Estimates of the ingestion rates were derived from measurements of predator respiration rates, growth rates, and gonad growth. Data from the field surveys and the energetics studies suggest that Mycale is prevented from dominating the space resource by the predation of two asteroids. Perknaster fuscus antarcticus and Acodontaster conspicuus. Adult Perknaster specialize on Mycale, and the sponge provides a small proportion of the diet of A. conspicuus. Acodontaster conspicuus and the dorid nudibranch Austrodoris memurdensis are the most important predators on three species of rossellid sponges (Rossella racovitzae, R. nuda, and Scolymastra joubini). Despite this relatively heavy consumption and despite the fact that none of these sponges has a refuge in growth from potential mortality from A. conspicuus, very large standing crops of the rossellid sponges have accumulated. This accumulation appears to result from predation on larval and young A. conspicuus and Austrodoris by Odontaster validus, which is primarily a detrital feeder and apparently acts as a filter against the settlement and survival of the A. conspicuus and Austrodoris larvae. In addition, predation upon adult A. conspicuus by O. validus and the actinian urticinopsis antarcticus annually kills approximately 3.5% of the A. conspicuus population. This mortality exceeds the apparent rate at which A. conspicuus escape the larval filter.
10.2307/1942295|The garibaldi, Hypsypops rubicunda, is a California pomacentrid fish inhabiting the rocky subtidal between 0 and 25 m. Garibaldi feed almost exclusively on benthic organisms. Adults defend a territory which includes a shelter hole, grazing area, and for some males, a nest site. The territory is defended all year and against some other species as well as other garibaldi. The nest site is a small patch of red algae cultured by the male. The same site is used over a period of several years by the same male and probably by his successors. The female is allowed in the territory only to spawn; the eggs are guarded by the male. The young receive no parental care; they disperse into the plankton and settle out in shallow water. Age estimates from scales indicate that garibaldi assume adult coloration and mature at age 5 or 6 years and may live 13 or more years. Garibaldi have no obvious important predators or diseases. From age structures of several populations the mortality rate is estimated at about 9% of the adult population per year. In most cases potential recruitment more than balances mortality, indicating that population density is limited by some resource in the area and regulated by some form of intraspecific competition. Density and dispersion of both fish and resources (food, shelter, and nest sites), sex ratio, and age structure were determined in several study areas. From these data and a series of repopulation experiments, the most likely limiting and regulating factors are proposed. Density of adult garibaldi can be limited by supply of resources for survival or, where these are abundant, by minimal space requirements of nesting males. Exclusion by territory defense helps regulate density to limits set by food, space, etc. There is no evidence of feedback between density and the density limiting or regulating effects of territorial behavior. Territorial behavior seems to have evolved as a means of increasing reproductive success. Population effects, though beneficial, are probably incidental. There is no support for the hypothesis that territorial behavior in the garibaldi has evolved because it limits or regulates density.
10.2307/1942348|A simple and an expanded model of periphyton dynamics in lotic environments are described. The simple model includes one level variable, the biomass of the periphyton assemblage, and four rate variables: primary production, community respiration, and two export fractions. In the expanded model three level variables and eight rate variables are added to the simple model to introduce the effects of allochthonous organic matter and grazing activities by an aquatic snail. In general, computer output from the expanded model supports the hypothesis that the relatively low biomasses of periphyton observed in the small streams of western Oregon are the result of grazing activities by aquatic animals, high silt loads during the fall and winter months, and the effects of a dense canopy of terrestrial vegetation on light penetration. Furthermore, the model indicates that it is bioenergetically feasible for a periphyton biomass of about 10 g m^-^2 ash-free dry weight to support a consumer biomass of 150 g m^-^2 or more if the productive capacity of the system is sufficient. The simulation models provided an analytical way of synthesizing the results of a number of experiments with periphyton assemblages, identified weaknesses in the experimental data, and provided insights into the dynamics of periphyton assemblages that could not be obtained by intuition alone or by examining the results of individual experiments.
10.2307/2937342|A 403-cm core was recovered from Hanging Lake in unglaciated northern Yukon. Twenty-one radiocarbon dates indicate that the section is at least 25 000 and possibly 33 000 yr old; they permit the calculation of pollen influxes for the full-glacial in eastern Beringia. Numerical methods were used to divide the pollen stratigraphy into five zones. From prior to 33 000 to 18 450 BP, a herb zone was dominant (zone HL 1) with high percentages of Gramineae, Artemisia, and Cruciferae. However, the low pollen influx, ranging from 5-100 grains@?cm^-^2@?yr^-^1, the low organic content of the sediment, and the occurrence of open-ground taxa all indicate that the vegetation cover was sparser than it is today. The arctic-alpine affinities of the herb pollen show that generically the vegetation was akin to modern arctic plant communities. Modern fellfield communities in the northern Yukon and Siberia have a rich and endemic Artemisia flora and they can produce pollen spectra comparable to that of the herb zone. Percent and influx values for spruce, alder, and birch increased slightly during subzone H 1B (21 680-18 450 BP); this subzone probably represents an interstadial. From 18 450 to 14 600 BP, a Salix-Cyperaceae zone (HL 2) occurred, suggesting the development of snowbed and willow scrub communities in sheltered areas. Between 14 600 and 11 100 BP Betula pollen dominated (zone HL 3) indicating the spread of dwarf birches, but the influx data show that this initial increase was modest compared with the subsequent zone and thus dwarf birches were probably restricted at this time to more favorable habitats. The spread of birch together with the increased total pollen influx, the higher organic content of the sediment, and the increased richness of herb pollen indicates that the local flora was more diverse and that the vegetative cover increased. The climate must have warmed. Zone HL 4 (Ericales zone) spanned the period from 11 100 to 8900 BP. Wet heath communities became locally abundant, poplar was more abundant at the beginning of this zone than at any subsequent time, the ranges of Typha latifolia and Myrica gale were greater than today, and pollen influx and sedimentation rate both increased greatly. Spruce became regionally abundant. These varied changes are probably in response to a warmer and wetter climate; they provide evidence for a late Pleistocene to early Holocene warm interval initially recognized by McCulloch and Hopkins (1966). Zone HL 5 (Alnus crispa zone) has been dated from 8900 BP to the present; it reflects the regional expansion of Alnus crispa on organic soils.
27646152|Natural disturbances strongly influence the dynamics and developmental patterns of forest ecosystems; however, relatively little is known about the historic patterns of natural disturbance for many portions of eastern North America, such as southern New England, where human disturbance has predominated for centuries. For these regions, much of our understanding of natural disturbance dynamics comes from studies of younger second-growth forests or isolated old-growth stands, thus limiting the temporal and spatial resolution of our knowledge of dynamics in these regions. To address these limitations, we analyzed dendroecological data from the 18 largest remaining old-growth stands in western Massachusetts, ranging in proximity from 160 km apart, in an effort to characterize the historic stand and landscape-level patterns of natural disturbance. Our results indicate that disturbance regimes for these systems were dominated by relatively frequent, low-intensity disturbances (average 5.0%  0.2% canopy area disturbed per decade) operating somewhat randomly on the landscape. Across the study areas, most decadal disturbances (86.2%) involved <10% canopy loss. There was no evidence of stand-replacing disturbances during the period examined (17001989), and the maximum canopy area disturbed in any given decade was 26.3%. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling demonstrated that several forests shared similar disturbance histories despite being separated by >50 km. Comparisons of these patterns with model simulations of past hurricane events and historical documents suggest that broadscale disturbances, such as hurricanes and ice storms, resulted in common disturbance peaks and subsequent recruitment peaks at spatially disparate areas in the 1790s, 1870s, 1900s, and 1920s. Conversely, the lack of synchrony in proximate areas during these events highlights the patchy nature of these disturbances on the landscape. Compositional and physiographic factors influenced disturbance patterns, as stands located on northwest-facing slopes or containing significant Picea rubens components in the forest overstory experienced the highest levels of disturbance. Our results highlight the utility of incorporating dendroecological reconstructions across numerous old-growth stands to interpret the historic stand and landscape-level disturbance dynamics in areas devoid of large, contiguous old-growth landscapes.
10.2307/1942318|An experiment was begun in 1963 to evaluate effects of long-term low-level radiation exposure on desert populations of plants and animals. Monthly censuses of four species of heteromyid rodents in three 9-ha enclosures and one non-enclosed area indicate great year-to-year changes in densities of the nonirradiated populations and even greater fluctuations in the irradiated populations. Although magnitude of density changes varied, timing of fluctuations was similar. In a good growing season a population may increase by a factor of 5 or more. In a poor growing season there may be no reproduction. Chronic radiation exposure to Perognathus formosus was measured to be 211-360 r/year. This reduced survival, particularly before the age of 6 mo. The instantaneous rate of death for the irratiated population during this period was 0.219, and for the control populations was .075 and 0.104. Future life expectancy at age 1 mo in the irradiated population was 9.2 mo, and for the control populations was 11.4 and 14.4 mo. The computed intrinsic rate of increase for the irradiated population was 0.314, compared to 0.493 and 0.498 for the two control populations. Demographic and histologic evidence indicate an increased birth rate in the irradiated population. A population consisting of animals 3 yr old and older, having been subjected to a lifetime of such radiation exposure, would likely be incapable of reproduction. Therefore, only in the most unfavorable periods, when reproduction is curtailed by natural factors, will the threshold levels of artificial radiation insult on the natural population be discernible. A rapid turnover of generations prevents a population from accumulating damaging effects of low-level exposure. The diets of rodents were analyzed, and the production of important foods was measured over 3 yr. Seeds and vegetative parts of plants made up approximately equal portions of the diet. All parts of the small annual plant Thelypodium were highly selected at all seasons. Total production of food shows a lag effect in relation to precipitation. Estimates of food requirements of the rodent population, based on laboratory feeding trials, suggest that food supply may be an important limiting factor. Populations respond strikingly to periods of favorable vegetative growth. Desert rodent populations are adapted to withstanding periods of unfavorable conditions. They have comparatively long life-spans and maintain fertility. These adaptations make them vulnerable to changed conditions, such as environmental contamination.
10.2307/1942604|I studied the impact of variable predation by bluegill sunfish on macroinvertebrate prey in a North Florida lake. Underwater time-lapse cinematography and censuses of bluegill abundances in shallow, middepth, and deep habitats permitted estimation of predation intensity and variability within and among lake habitats. I then incorporated predation rates typical of the middepth zone in caging experiments where predation fluctuated in one treatment and remained constant in another. Prey community structure was subsequently monitored for 1 yr under variable, constant, ambient, and no predation regimes. Patchy, temporally variable predation characterized middepth and deep lake habitats, whereas in the shallow zone predation was relatively constant and homogeneous. Predation varied significantly every 2-4 wk in the middepth zone, but varied little between consecutive weeks or days. Caging experiments revealed that variable predation altered prey community composition and increased the mean size and size range of some prey (e.g., Odonate) as compared to the constant predation treatment. Prey abundances also appeared more heterogeneous among cages (patches) and varied more temporally under a variable predation regime. However, total prey abundance, species abundance, and within-patch spatial heterogeneity did not differ among predator treatments. In general, the macroinvertebrate community exposed to variable predation more closely approximated the natural middepth zone community than that from the constant predation regime. Previous studies of fish predation on macroinvertebrate communities have concentrated on shallow littoral habitats, but these results suggest that conclusions drawn from shallow habitats may not be representative of all lake zones. Variable predation may occur in many systems, and may contribute substantially to the spatial heterogeneity, temporal inconstancy, and species composition of prey communities.
23047058|Detection of ecosystem responsiveness to climatic perturbations can provide insight into climate change consequences. Recent analyses linking phytoplankton abundance and mussel recruitment to the North Pacific Gyre Oscillation (NPGO) revealed a paradox. Despite large increases in mussel recruitment beginning in 2000, adult mussel responses were idiosyncratic by site and intertidal zone, with no response at one long-term site, and increases in the low zone (1.5% per year) and decreases in the mid zone (1.3% per year) at the other. What are the mechanisms underlying these differential changes? Species interactions such as facilitation by barnacles and predation are potential determinants of successful mussel colonization. To evaluate these effects, we analyzed patterns of barnacle recruitment, determined if predation rate covaried with the increase in mussel recruitment, and tested facilitation interactions in a field experiment. Neither magnitude nor season of barnacle recruitment changed meaningfully with site or zone from the 1990s to the 2000s. In contrast to the relationship between NPGO and local-scale mussel recruitment, relationships between local-scale patterns of barnacle recruitment and climate indices were weak. Despite differences in rates of prey recruitment and abundance of sea stars in 19901991, 19992000, and 2007-2008, predation rates were nearly identical in experiments before, during, and after 19992000. The facilitation experiment showed that mussels M. trossulus only became abundant when barnacle recruitment was allowed, when abundance of barnacles reached high abundance of 50% cover, and when mussel recruitment was sufficiently high. Thus, in the low zone minimal changes in mussel abundance despite sharply increased recruitment rates are consistent with the hypothesis that change in adult mussel cover was buffered by the relative insensitivity of barnacle recruitment to climatic fluctuations, and a resultant lack of change in facilitation strength. Facilitation of mussels is likely important in the mid zone as well, but the dynamics of the longer-lived M. californianus at our two long-term sites appeared to be driven primarily by differential regimes of disturbance. Although rocky intertidal ecosystems may be sensitive to major climatic perturbations, predicting community responses will be difficult due to complex individualistic responses of key taxa during the recruitment stage and their influences on subsequent species interactions.
10.2307/1943006|Pollen contained in sediment cores, from Grays Lake, Idaho, indicate cold, dry conditions from @?70 000 to 30 000 yr BP when an Artemisia steppe surrounded Grays Lake and extended into the nearby mountains. From @?30 000 until 11 500 yr BP, somewhat moister conditions supported a conifer woodland. Pinus and other conifers grew in the foothills and among Artemisia on the open plains. Increases in Picea, Abies, and Artemisia signaled the onset of a cool transitional climate @?11 500 yr BP. Juniperus and members of the Chenopodiaceae/Amaranthaceae and Compositae families all became more abundant as the climate became warmer and drier. Xeric conditions persisted from @?10 000 to 7100 yr BP, reaching a maximum @?8200 yr BP. Subsequently, the climate of the Grays Lake Basin has been cooler and moister, with increases in conifers and decreases in Juniperus and steppe plants.
10.2307/1942214|The relationships between drift rates, population density, production rates, key environmental factors, and movements of adults were studied in two populations of stream insects, the caddisfly Oligophlebodes sigma and the mayfly Baetis bicaudatus. Samples of benthic invertebrates (424 total) were collected every 28 days at four stations on Temple Fork of the Logan River, Utah, from October 1967 to September 1969. Samples of drift invertebrates (181 total) were collected every 14 days at three stations on Temple Fork during the same period. During June-September a day and a night drift sample (681 total) were collected every other day. Drift rates of O. sigma larvae were greatest (5,987 g/year) when biomass in the benthos (2.56 g/m^2) and production (4.30 g/m^2 per year) were greatest. Total production (dry weight) of O. sigma larvae in the stream (bottom area = 29,487 m^2) was 89.0 kg in 1968 and 80.8 kg in 1969. Total production of B. bicaudatus nymphs was 41.3 kg in 1968 and 39.8 kg in 1969. Drift rates of O. sigma larvae were related directly to biomass in the benthos over an entire year. Drift rates of O. sigma and B. bicaudatus were not related directly to density expressed as numbers/area in the benthos. Drift rates were correlated positively and significantly (r = 0.78 and 0.55 for day drift of O. sigma and B. bicaudatus, respectively) with density during the months of June-September for both O. sigma larvae and B. bicaudatus nymphs. Discharge, distance below the spring source of Temple Fork, and densities of competing aquatic insects were other factors of significance in the multiple-regression analyses of factors affecting drift rates of the two insects. The 17 or 18 independent variables used in the multiple-regression analyses accounted for 65% and 55% of the variability in day drift rates of O. sigma and B. bicaudatus, respectively. Adult O. sigma (but not B. bicaudatus) undertook a definite upstream migration estimated at 2-3 km. This flight of adults resulted in a concentrated deposition of eggs in the upper reaches of the stream. The advantage of the upstream flight may be that it stores reproductive products in areas where they are relatively safe from effects of anchor ice during winter and of floods in late winter and early spring.
10.2307/1942463|Dense thorn woodlands occupy what are thought to have been grasslands and savannas prior to settlement of the Rio Grande Plains of Texas. However, the tenet that grasslands have been converted to shrublands and woodlands in recent history is controversial and based largely upon conflicting historical accounts. Our objective was to determine how the presumed physiognomic conversion from grassland or savanna to woodlands might have occurred. Some upland landscapes are dominated by closed-canopy woodlands in southern Texas, whereas others have a two-phase pattern of discrete shrub clusters scattered throughout a grassland. More mesic sites are dominated by losed-canopy woodlands. We hypothesized the two-phase landscapes represented an intermediate stage in the conversion of grassland to woodland. As new shrub clusters were initiated and existing clusters expanded and coalesced, a gradual shift from grassland to savanna to woodland would occur. To address this hypothesis, we inventoried herbaceous interspaces for woody colonizers, quantified the composition and distribution of shrub clusters on upland sites, and compared the structure of clusters to that of adjacent, more mesic areas with continuous woody plant cover. To assess the physiognomic stability of the two-phase landscapes, cluster size, density, and cover were quantified for 1941, 1960, and 1983 from aerial photographs. A lone mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) plant occurred in >80% of the upland clusters, where it was typically the largest individual in terms of basal area, height, and canopy area. The number of woody species per cluster ranged from 1 to 15 and was strongly related to mesquite basal diameter (R^2 = 0.86). Cluster diversity, evenness, and size were also significantly correlated with mesquite size. The data suggest that mesquite plants invaded grasslands and served as recruitment foci for bird-disseminated seeds of other woody species previously restricted to other habitats. The result was a landscape composed of discrete chronosequences of woody plant assemblages organized about a mesquite nucleus. Within the two-phase portion of the landscape, 50% of the clusters were within 5 m of another and 95% were within 15 m of another. Analysis of the size class distribution of clusters suggested that most had yet to realize their growth potential. Moreover, the herbaceous clearings between clusters contained high densities of woody seedlings, mostly (>70%) mesquite, which occurred in 85% of the clearings, with a mean density of 350 plants/ha. Coalescence will become increasingly probable if new clusters are initiated and existing clusters expand. This phenomenon appeared to be in progress on one portion of the landscape and had apparently already occurred on others. As clusters developed on the two-phase portion of the landscape, their species composition, dominance, and size class structure became increasingly similar to that of adjacent closed-canopy woodlands on more mesic. Mean cluster size increased from 494 m^2 in 1941 to 717 m^2 in 1983. Growth rates of clusters were a function of cluster size and precipitation. During the 1941-1960 period characterized by severe drought, there was a slight decrease in total woody plant cover resulting primarily from the formation of gaps among clusters on the periphery of the site and a 35% decrease in density of clusters <5 m^2. These cover losses offset the areal expansion of small (<100 m^2) clusters which had an average relative growth rate (RGR) of 0.10 m^2@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1. Post-drought woody plant cover increased from 8% in 1960 to 36% in 1983 as new clusters were initiated density increased from 16 to 26 clusters/ha), and the RGR of small clusters increased to 0.16 m^2@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1. Numerous clusters coalesced during this period. RGRs of clusters >100 m^2 were an order of magnitude lower than those of clusters <100 m^2 in each time period. The RGR of large clusters following the drought was not significantly increased, except in the largest size class (clusters >1,000 m^2). Our results indicate (1) mesquite invaded grasslands and served as the nucleus of cluster organization on upland sites; (2) woody plant community development has been highly punctuated by variations in precipitation; (3) clusters >5 m^2 in area are persistent features of the landscape; and (4) the present two-phase pattern is moving toward a monophasic woodland as new clusters are initiated and existing clusters expand and coalesce. As a result, (5) shrub clusters on uplands represent an intermediate stage in the conversion of grassland to woodland, and (6) closed-canopy woodlands on more mesic sites appear to represent portions of the landscape where this has already occurred. Because the conversion of grasslands and savannas to woodlands in the Rio Grande Plains is initiated by mesquite, factors regulating its dispersal, establishment, and role as a facilitator of woody community development are emphasized.
40385227|Conceptual models suggest a link between spatial heterogeneity, diversity, and resilience, but few empirical studies exist to demonstrate such an ecological relationship. In this study, we investigated the nature of spatial heterogeneity and resilience of two forest fragments from Madagascar's highly endangered littoral forest, and two nearby sites in the surrounding ericoid grassland. This ecosystem has been subjected to a number of large environmental disturbances over the last 6000 years, including a late Holocene sea-level rise of 1-3 m above the present level, pronounced drought events, and natural and anthropogenic fires. The aims were to determine the driving mechanisms for heterogeneity and to compare the impact of large environmental disturbances among the four sites. Overall, our results indicate that, contrary to previous assumptions of continuous forest cover, the ecosystem was already spatially heterogeneous prior to the arrival of humans. Differences in groundwater, nutrients, and fires maintained a natural mosaic of forest and open vegetation giving rise to high floristic diversity. The four sites differed significantly in their resilience to climatic disturbances, as measured by compositional turnover and by the timing and extent of biotic recovery. The highly diverse littoral forest reverted more quickly to forest than the surrounding vegetation, which was composed of open Uapaca woodland (a noanalogue community) prior to the formation of the ericoid grassland. Further, species and populations from sites with low nutrients and nitrogen-fixing species as dominants were able to persist despite climatic perturbations, whereas there was higher turnover in the other sites. Overall, minimal extinction occurred in the ecosystem despite widespread landscape transformations. It is suggested that spatial heterogeneity and diversity in southeastern Madagascar may have enhanced species survival during climatic perturbations.
10.2307/1942222|This paper reformulates the notion of density dependence and shows how this notion plays an important role in constructing appropriate models for data analysis. The regulation and persistence of population processes are interpreted as a close resemblance to the behavior of a series of random variables in which the second moments are bounded. On this basis the formal criteria of persistence are deduced. General structural models of population processes are set up and translated into discrete single-variable difference equations, ranging from the simplest linear first-order process to more complex nonlinear second-order processes. The discussion includes the derivation of general conditions for the second-order limit cycles, a reanalysis of the Canadian lynx 10-yr cycle, and models for population outbreaks. Based on the results of the preceding study of models, the notion of density dependence is reformulated. First, the meaning of the word 'dependence' is discussed. In the context of 'density dependence,' the word has two meanings; the causal dependence of a factor on density, and the statistical dependence. Statistical dependence is defined as a converse of statistical independence, the latter being a process in which the rate of change in density has zero correlation with density; this is a very special class of processes and is unlikely to occur in natural population processes. Therefore, the test of density dependence against the null hypothesis of statistical independence will not provide much insight. It is also argued that a deduction from the persistence criteria shows that a negative correlation between density and its rate of change is a necessary outcome of regulation and hence that the notion of 'density-dependent regulation' in statistical dependence is an uninspiring tautology. As opposed to statistical density independence, which necessarily generates an unbounded population process, causal density independence may satisfy the persistence conditions and hence may regulate populations. However, such a causally 'density-independent regulation' tends to be 'fragile' against perturbations by random exogenous factors. It is a particular class of causally density-dependent processes that can ensure regulation more durable against such perturbations. The inference of generating mechanism from observation is discussed. Although regression analysis is an essential method of inference, simple regression analysis will not work unless the observed processes are known to be a simple Markov chain. Statistical inference of generating mechanisms in observed systems depends largely on the choice of appropriate models, and it is in the construction of such models that the notion of causal density dependence plays an important role.
10.2307/2657152|The relationship between fleshy-fruited plants and their vertebrate seed dispersal agents often has been depicted as subject to important interannual variation, but no study has thus far documented such variation on a long-term basis. This paper presents the results of a 12-yr investigation on fleshy-fruited plants and avian frugivores in a Mediterranean montane locality of southeastern Spain. The main objective was to document patterns and correlates of long-term variation in the composition and abundance of fruits and birds, with particular reference to seed dispersers. During October-December ("autumn" period) 1978-1990, abundance of ripe fruits and birds was assessed in a 4-ha plot in dense, well-preserved sclerophyllous scrub, by means of counts in permanent plots and mist-netting, respectively. Diet composition and fruit preference patterns of Erithacus rubecula and Sylvia atricapilla, the two most abundant seed dispersers, were also investigated over the same period, using fecal sample analyses. Possible consequences to the birds of annual variation in fruit supply and diet composition were investigated using data on fat deposition levels and recapture rates of mist-netted individuals. Total fruit abundance (i.e., mean ripe fruit density of all species combined) fluctuated among years between 5.4  11.1 fruits/m
4134796|Interactions at the aboveground-belowground interface provide important feedbacks that regulate ecosystem processes. Organisms within soil food webs are involved in processes of decomposition and nutrient mineralization, and their abundance and activity have been linked to plant ecophysiological traits such as species identity and the quality and quantity of plant tissue. We tested aboveground-belowground diversity relationships in a naturally developed plant community of native tallgrass prairie by taking soil samples from beneath naturally established grass tillers of chosen characteristics (e.g., homogeneous vs. heterogeneous plant combinations or C
27646049|Global data sets provide strong evidence of convergence for leaf structure with leaf longevity such that species having thick leaves, low specific leaf area, low mass-based nitrogen concentrations, and low photosynthetic rates typically exhibit long leaf life span. Leaf longevity and corresponding leaf structure have also been widely linked to plant potential growth rate, plant competition, and nutrient cycling. We hypothesized that selection forces leading to variation in leaf longevity and leaf structure have acted simultaneously and in similar directions on the longevity and structure of the finest root orders. Our four-year study investigated the links between root and leaf life span and root and leaf structure among 11 north-temperate tree species in a common garden in central Poland. Study species included the hardwoods Acer pseudoplatanus L., Acer platanoides L., Fagus sylvatica L., Quercus robur L., and Tilia cordata Mill.; and the conifers Abies alba Mill., Larix decidua Mill., Picea abies (L.) Karst., Pinus nigra Arnold, Pinus sylvestris L., and Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirbel) Franco. Leaf life span, estimated by phenological observations and needle cohort measurements, ranged from 0.5 to 8 yr among species. Median fine-root life span, estimated using minirhizotron images of individual roots, ranged from 0.5 to 2.5 yr among species. Root life span was not correlated with leaf life span, but specific root length was significantly correlated with specific leaf area. Root nitrogen: carbon ratio was negatively correlated with root longevity, which corroborates previous research that has suggested a trade-off between organ life span and higher organ N concentrations. Specific traits such as thickened outer tangential walls of the exodermis were better predictors of long-lived roots than tissue density or specific root length, which have been correlated with life span in previous studies. Although theories linking organ structure and function suggest that similar root and leaf traits should be linked to life span and that root and leaf life span should be positively correlated, our results suggest that tissue structure and longevity aboveground (leaves) can contrast markedly with that belowground (roots).
40385229|Understanding the environmental basis for soil-site quality relationships requires that we connect the environmental factors important to resource availability to the physiological processes influencing tree productivity. The nitrogen productivity concept provides this link by relating nitrogen uptake rate to plant growth, although the concept has. been verified almost exclusively by laboratory experiments on tree seedlings. We tested the nitrogen productivity concept in a field setting by relating foliage production to nitrogen mineralization rate in 19 mature ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) stands across a moisture gradient in central Oregon, USA. Models developed following the nitrogen productivity concept predicted annual foliage production precisely and adequately represented the different influences of nitrogen and water stress. Current-year foliage production was proportional to older foliage nitrogen content (R = 0.82), and a model including a water stress index (stable carbon isotope ratio, C) further explained 95% of the variability. A direct link between soil nitrogen availability and canopy nutrition was less clear. Annual foliage production was positively, but weakly, correlated with soil-estimated N-uptake (estimated in situ), likely because annual nitrogen uptake was small relative to nitrogen retained in the canopy. Foliage nitrogen was highly conserved with a mean retention time of 10.5 yr, which was 2.2 times longer than foliage retention. Annual nitrogen uptake amounted to 0-11% of total canopy N. Multiyear estimates of cumulative N fluxes are needed to adequately assess N availability. Soil nutrient pools were poorly correlated with nutrient uptake and were not useful for predicting stand productivity.
23596739|Eastern deciduous forests are changing in species composition and diversity outside of classical successional trajectories. Three disturbance mechanisms appear central to this phenomenon: fire frequency is reduced, canopy gaps are smaller, and browsers are more abundant. Which factor is most responsible is a matter of great debate and remains unclear, at least partly because few studies have simultaneously investigated more than one process. We conducted a large-scale experiment in mesophytic forests of West Virginia, USA, to test three key hypotheses: (1) the fire hypothesis (fire suppression limits diversity to few shade-tolerant, fire-intolerant species that replace and suppress many fire-tolerant species); (2) the gap hypothesis (small gaps typical of today's forests promote dominance of a few shade-tolerant species); and (3) the browsing hypothesis (overbrowsing by deer limits diversity to a few unpalatable species). We tested these hypotheses using a factorial experiment that manipulated surface fire, large canopy gap formation (gap size 255 m 2 ), and browsing by deer, and we followed the fates of >28 000 seedlings and saplings for five years. Understory tree communities in control plots were dominated (up to 90%) by Fagus grandifolia, averaging little more than two species, whereas overstories were diverse, with 1015 species. Fire, large canopy gaps, and browsing all dramatically affected understory composition. However, our findings challenge views that fire and large canopy gaps can maintain or promote diversity, because browsers reduced the benefits of gaps and created depauperate understories following fire. Consequently, two major disturbances that once promoted tree diversity no longer do so because of browsing. Our findings appear to reconcile equivocal views on the role of fire and gaps. If browsers are abundant, these two disturbances either depress diversity or are less effective. Alternatively, with browsers absent, these disturbances promote diversity (three- to fivefold). Our results apply to large portions of eastern North America where deer are overabundant, and we provide compelling experimental evidence that historical disturbance regimes in combination with low browsing regimes typical of pre-European settlement forests could maintain high tree species diversity. However, restoring disturbances without controlling browsing may be counterproductive.
27646048|Ecologists are searching for models, frameworks, and principles that provide a bridge between theory and the practice of restoration. Successional management has been proposed as a useful model for managing and restoring invasive-plant-dominated rangeland because it provides a framework in which ecological processes can be manipulated by managers to achieve a desired plant community. Successional management identifies three general causes of succession (site availability [disturbance], species availability [colonization], and species performance) and suggests that managers address the ecological process influencing each general cause in a coordinated fashion to direct plant community dynamics. We tested successional management using various techniques to restore invasive-weed-dominated rangeland. Our hypothesis was that successively modifying the factors influencing the causes of succession in an integrated fashion would favor the establishment and abundance of native grasses over singularly applied treatments. Thus, we anticipated that the majority of responses to multiple treatments would be explained by higher order interactions, especially in the final year of the study (2004). To test this hypothesis, we used a model system within a Festuca campestris/Pseudoroegneria spicata habitat among pothole wetlands dominated by Centaurea maculosa and Potentilla recta, two invasive species. We used three herbicide treatments (none, 2,4-D, and picloram) to influence species performance; two seeding methods (imprinting, i.e., creating a small depression and broadcasting, and no-till drilling) to influence disturbance; three seeding rates (977, 1322, and 1557 seeds/m2) to influence colonization; and two cover crop treatments (with and without Triticum aestivum) to influence soil N and favor native grasses. Treatments were factorially arranged and replicated four times in a randomized complete block design in 2001 and sampled in 2002 and 2004. As predicted, plant response to treatments was dominated by two- and three-way interactions in 2004. The highest seeding rate (colonization) combined with no-till drilling (disturbance) produced the highest native grass density in 2002. These effects persisted into 2004 for P. spicata, but not for F. campestris or F. idahoensis. Combining picloram with no-till drill seeding also produced a high density of P. spicata. Drill seeding at 977 seeds/m2 favored F. idahoensis density, while no-till drilling at 1322 seeds/m2 favored its biomass in 2004. F. idahoensis established well after drill seeding with a cover crop and applying 2,4-D. Herbicides reduced native forb density and/or biomass, with early season forbs being more sensitive to picloram and summer forbs being more sensitive to 2,4-D. Herbicides increased exotic grasses' density and biomass but had no effect on native grasses. In most cases, integrating treatments that addressed multiple causes of succession favored a desired plant community. Thus, we accomplished our goal of using successional management to direct plant communities toward native desired species, but the treatments used did not improve species richness. Since naturally occurring native forbs did not respond favorably to any treatment combination, ecological restoration using successional management may best be thought of as an iterative procedure where various components and processes of the system are methodically repaired or replaced over time.
4539084|We present a multisite analysis of the relationship between plant diversity and ecosystem functioning within the European BIODEPTH network of plant-diversity manipulation experiments. We report results of the analysis of 11 variables addressing several aspects of key ecosystem processes like biomass production, resource use (space, light, and nitrogen), and decomposition, measured across three years in plots of varying plant species richness at eight different European grassland field sites. Differences among sites explained substantial and significant amounts of the variation of most of the ecosystem processes examined. However, against this background of geographic variation, all the aspects of plant diversity and composition we examined (i.e., both numbers and types of species and functional groups) produced significant, mostly positive impacts on ecosystem processes. Analyses using the additive partitioning method revealed that complementarity effects (greater net yields than predicted from monocultures due to resource partitioning, positive interactions, etc.) were stronger and more consistent than selection effects (the covariance between monoculture yield and change in yield in mixtures) caused by dominance of species with particular traits. In general, communities with a higher diversity of species and functional groups were more productive and utilized resources more completely by intercepting more light, taking up more nitrogen, and occupying more of the available space. Diversity had significant effects through both increased vegetation cover and greater nitrogen retention by plants when this resource was more abundant through N
10.2307/2937298|This paper presents the structure and properties of a total stream model that simulates the dynamics of small, flowing-water ecosystems in the northwestern United States. Conceptually, the model is hierarchically structured, consisting of 7 basic processes: periphyton dynamics, grazing, shredding, collecting, invertebrate predation, vertebrate predation, and detrital conditioning. These processes are subprocesses of 3 echelons of higher level processes: detritivory; herbivory; primary consumption; predation; and the total ecosystem. The model has 14 state variables in the 7 basic processes, and is conceptualized in discrete time with a basic time step corresponding to 1 day. Behavior of the stream model relative to different schedules of energy inputs and to the practice of clear-cut logging was investigated and related to contemporary theory of lotic ecosystems. In general, model behavior indicated that the regulation of biological processes in streams is complex, the mechanisms of which vary seasonally and from process to process. If a process is regulated by food supply, its annual production tends to increase as predation increases, while mean biomass may or may not be affected appreciably. In contrast, an increase in predation tends to decrease both mean biomass and annual production in processes regulated primarily by predation and such life history phenomena as insects emergence. The stream model provided the stimulus that led to a mathematical expression for the rate of production at the level of the entire ecosystem, and model behavior suggests that this rate tends to remain constant along a continuum from small, first-order streams with no tributaries to larger rivers which eventually drain into the sea.
10.2307/2657189|Fossil seed distributions of submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) from dated sediment cores in tributaries of the upper Chesapeake Bay show prehistoric changes in species composition and abundance and reflect the response of SAV species to human disturbance since European settlement. The interval of time spanned by the cores includes several centuries prior to, and three centuries following, European settlement. Species diversity is greatest in the low-salinity northern and upper tributaries, while areas of higher salinity and extensive salt marshes are characterized by low diversity or absence of SAV. Mapped distributions of seed abundances show the migration from upstream to downstream in some tributaries of the brackish species Potamogeton perfoliatus, Zannichellia palustris, and Ruppia maritima following deforestation. The largest increase in SAV, represented by the highest abundance of fossilized seeds, occurred during the 1700s after Europeans first cleared the land for farms, and the largest and most widespread decline took place in the 1960s and 1970s after most of the watershed had been at one time or another cleared and heavily fertilized for agriculture. Distributions of SAV are highly variable both temporally and spatially, reflecting the dynamic nature of estuarine habitats. Despite high environmental variability, local and regional extinctions occurred only in the most recent decades, indicating a threshold response to land use changes and nutrient loading which had begun at least two centuries earlier and intensified in the mid- to late 19th century.
10.2307/2937107|Three species of massive reef-building coral, Goniastrea aspera, G. favulus, and Platygyra sinensis, were studied on two fringing reef flats in the central Great Barrier Reef from 1982 to 1984. Total population sizes ranged from 25 to 292 colonies, and remained relatively constant. Population structures and dynamics based on both age and size were described. Differences between these two classifications were primarily due to tissue fission or shrinkage of colonies. In populations dominated by small size classes, young corals were not necessarily the most abundant. Similarly, populations dominated by the largest size classes were not always dominated by the oldest corals. In several populations, mean colony size decreased slightly with increasing age, though variability in size also increased. Mortality patterns were similar in all three species, with the youngest genets and smallest ramets suffering the highest death rates. While mortality in older or larger corals was low, the incidence of partial mortality and fission was higher in these groups. Age-specific fecundity increased rapidly once reproductive age was reached at @?5 yr, but fecundity decreased slightly in the older age classes due to the decrease in mean colony size. Estimated mean generation times ranged from 33 to 37 yr.
10.2307/1942469|In the Colorado Front Range Kobresia bellardii distribution is restricted to alpine meadows which are neither extremely wind exposed nor buried under snow in winter. This study examined reasons for such a limited distribution by comparing the behavior of undisturbed Kobresia with that of transplants into alpine habitats with less and more winter snow accumulation. Kobresia's success in snow-free meadows was related to rapid summer growth and to its use of an extended period for development, from about 1 April to 20 October. New leaves began elongation in the autumn and completed growth the following summer. Most carbohydrates were stored as oligosaccharides in the shoots. During periods of relatively warm weather (>-4@?C) in winter, when soil water potential (@J"s) rose above -2.0 MPa, leaves elongated slightly; they died back when cold, windy weather resumed. Kobresia did not survive in a fellfield primarily because of mechanical damage by windblown snow and sand. Low @J"s led to leaf wilting in summer and winter. Shallow snow cover (@?15 cm) that melted early permitted extensive April leaf elongation in saturated soils. The prematurely developed leaves apparently lost frost hardiness and were injured in late spring freezes. In sites of moderate (@?75 cm) and deep (@?140 cm) snow accumulations, autumn dieback was incomplete when drifts first formed in September and October. Winter freezing destroyed the apparently unhardened leaf tissues and meristems, resulting in loss of carbohydrate reserves. In the moderate snow accumulation sites, leaf elongation was delayed until snowmelt was complete in late June or early July. Interspecific competition appeared unimportant in determining Kobresia distribution. Flower and seed production were reduced up to 99% by habitat alteration. Kobresia may not be reproducing by seed in the Front Range at the present time.
40385204|This article provides guidelines for the description, documentation, and review of proposals for new or revised plant associations and alliances to be recognized as units of vegetation within the U.S. National Vegetation Classification (NVC). By setting forth standards for field records, analysis, description, peer review, and archiving, the Ecological Society of America's Vegetation Classification Panel, in collaboration with the U.S. Federal Geographic Data Committee, NatureServe, and others, seeks to advance our common understanding of vegetation and improve our capability to sustain and restore natural systems. We provide definitions for the two floristic levels of the NVC hierarchy: associations and alliances. This is followed by a description of standards for field plot records and the identification and classification of vegetation types. Procedures for review and evaluation of proposed additions and revisions of types are provided, as is a structure for data archiving and dissemination. These procedures provide a dynamic and practical way to publish new or revised descriptions of vegetation types while maintaining a current, authoritative list of types for multiple users to access and apply.
27646153|Individual-based forest simulators, such as TASS and SORTIE, are spatial stochastic processes that predict properties of populations and communities by simulating the fate of every plant throughout its life cycle. Although they are used for forest management and are able to predict dynamics of real forests, they are also analytically intractable, which limits their usefulness to basic scientists. We have developed a new spatial individual-based forest model that includes a perfect plasticity formulation for crown shape. Its structure allows us to derive an accurate approximation for the individual-based model that predicts mean densities and size structures using the same parameter values and functional forms, and also it is analytically tractable. The approximation is represented by a system of von Foerster partial differential equations coupled with an integral equation that we call the perfect plasticity approximation (PPA). We have derived a series of analytical results including equilibrium abundances for trees of different crown shapes, stability conditions, transient behaviors, such as the constant yield law and self-thinning exponents, and two species coexistence conditions.
10.2307/2937109| Analysis of food web structure and temporal dynamics is essential to understanding energy flow and population dynamics of species, and may contribute to conservation, wildlife management, and disease and pest control. This report synthesizes all the observational studies of food web dynamics to which we have access. Most published food webs are static and cumulative: they depict information gathered over many occasions. A web observed over a single, relatively short time period is time specific. Here we analyze the relation between cumulative and time-specific versions of webs in 16 published cases. Fourteen of the 16 webs are from detritus-based habitats that harbor large fractions of arthropod species: carcasses, tree fluxes, felled logs, treeholes, dung pads, and an acidic pond. The other two webs describe soybean fields and the arctic tundra. These webs are presented here in a consistent format and are analyzed in four ways. First, we quantified temporal trends and levels of variation in nine web properties: the percentages of species in the web that are top predators (%T), intermediate species (%I), and basal species (%B); the ratio of number of prey species to number of predator species (P); the mean chain length (); the product of species richness and connectance (S x C); and the numbers of total species, newly arriving species, and local extinctions. In most webs %I and %T fluctuated widely; the latter generally increased in time or remained constant, while the former correspondingly decreased or remained constant. Since the number of basal species usually varied little, changes in %B were inversely associated with changes in species richness over successional and seasonal time scales. Predictable changes in P,  and S x C accompanied the changes in %B, %I, and %T. The numbers of total species, new arrivals, and local extinctions displayed no consistent increasing or decreasing trends. Second, we compared cumulative and time-specific webs from the same habitat to determine which properties, if any, of time-specific webs might be predicted from cumulative webs. In cumulative webs, P, , and %T came closest to the median of the values from time-specific webs, followed by %I, S x C, and %B Cumulative webs, which usually appear in general ecology textbooks, overestimate S x C and underestimate %B relative to time-specific versions. In five studies cumulative webs were completed when the last or next-to-last samples were taken; additional sampling in these cases would probably have uncovered more species. Third, opportunistic species were removed from four time-specific webs to determine how these species influenced web structure. Removing one top-feeding opportunistic species from each web caused a dramatic rise in %T, small reductions in %I, S x C, , and P, and a negligible rise in %B. A single opportunistic species, even though it makes only rare and brief visits to a habitat, can dramatically reshape web structure. Fourth, properties of cumulative and time-specific versions of the 16 food webs were compared to properties of cumulative webs in two published web catalogs. The cumulative versions of the 16 webs grossly resemble the cumulative webs in both prior catalogs, but the median S x C is greater and the median %B is lower in the 16 cumulative webs than in either prior catalog. Even for these two statistics, the median value for the 16 cumulative webs falls well within the range of variation of both prior catalogs. The time-specific webs in the 16 cases differ from those of the two prior catalogs somewhat more than do the cumulative webs. Comparisons between time-specific and cumulative versions of a web, one system at a time, are more sensitive than rough comparisons between collections of webs because the methods used to define species and links are (usually) consistent within a study. 
10.2307/1942523|On Trinidad (4520 km^2), 12 bird species in foothills of the Northern Range (11 hummingbirds and Coereba flaveola, a passerine) often use floral nectar for carbohydrate food. A subset of 6 (5 hummingbirds and Coereba) occur on Tobago, a smaller (295 km^2), more isolated island. For 13 mo we compared these assemblages at study sites having similar climates and similar sets of bird-visited flowers (34 species at Trinidad sites, 31 on Tobago). Density of nectar resources for birds varied seasonally > 100-fold on each island. During peaks in total flower density, much nectar available to birds went unused. In contrast, during a flower-poor 3-mo period (September-November 1977), nectar available in flowers was held near zero because supplies were consumed as fast as they were secreted. Competition for this limited supply of nectar appeared to be intense on both islands. Diets of coexisting bird populations diverged, especially at the Tobago site, where only 3 nectar-feeding bird species, with disparate morphologies, persisted: 1 short-billed hummingbird, 1 long-billed hummingbird, and Coereba. At other seasons, though, a variety, of bird species consumed nectar on both islands, and often diets of different species were nearly identical. Despite the twofold difference in species richness, the two bird assemblages used nectar resources similarly, contrary to the theory that species-rich and species-poor guilds should differ in patterns of resource use. There were no statistical differences between the islands in the ratio of demand for nectar to nectar supply (expected by theory to be lower on the average on species-poor Tobago), monthly variation in that ratio (expected to be greater on Tobago), or breadth of the entire guild's diet (expected to be lesser on Tobago). One reason may have been that supplies of nectar at both sites fluctuated so widely that demand for nectar in neither bird assemblage could change quickly enough to keep pace. Second, foraging by the hummingbird Chrysolampis mosquitus, a migrant common on Tobago for the 9 mo of the year outside the period of food shortage, made up in part for nectar use by the 6 hummingbird species found on Trinidad but not Tobago. C. mosquitus on Trinidad rarely entered our primary study site, instead shifting to a type of habitat not available on Tobago and relatively little used by other hummingbird species. We found few significant differences in the intensity of competition on the two islands. One hummingbird species, Amazilia tobaci, won most interspecific aggressive encounters over nectar on both islands. There were no significant differences in the intensity of exploitative competition (measured as mean interspecific crowding) experienced by most species on different islands. C. mosquitus, though, may have left Tobago during the 3-mo nectar shortage due to a combination of interference competition (from A. tobaci) and exploitative competition (from all 3 resident species), whereas at that time the Trinidad C. mosquitus population apparently left the island due to a shortage of appropriate flowers in its preferred habitat. Species composition on Tobago can partly be explained by examining traits of species present on Trinidad, the principal source pool. Although individuals in all 5 Tobago hummingbird populations were significantly larger in one or more morphological dimensions (bill length, wing length, mass, or wing disc loading) than conspecifics on Trinidad, the adaptive significance of these size increases is obscure in all but one case (A. tobaci). In addition to Chrysolampis mosquitus and Coereba flaveola, a passerine that consumes fruits and insects as well as nectar, the other birds that used nectar at the Trinidad study sites were: 2 large-bodied, stout-billed hummingbird species that consume many arthropods and that, like C. mosquitus, may sometimes migrate to the mainland; and two distinct 4-species sets of resident hummingbirds, one set with short bills (<25 mm total culmen) and one set with long (>28 mm), often curved, bills. Only one species from each of these 4-species sets was found on Tobago. We examined Trinidad's 4-species sets closely to see if the Tobago representative from each, short-billed A. tobaci or long-billed Glaucis hirsuta, was a random draw with respect to population traits thought to enhance persistence on small islands. Diets of A. tobaci and G. hirsuta on Trinidad were not particularly broad, nor was either Trinidad population particularly free of exploitative competition, relative to all other species there. At the Trinidad study site, though, A. tobaci maintained the highest and least variable demand for nectar (hence, presumably, the highest and least variable population density) of any short-billed species, and G. hirsuta maintained a higher and less variable demand than 2 of 3 other long-billed species. We argue that the relatively low seasonal variation in demand for nectar (and, presumably, in population density) within the second-growth habitat is the most straightforward explanation for persistence on Tobago of A. tobaci and G. hirsuta, rather than other species from their respective groups. The result implies that the other 6 Trinidadian populations wander relatively more than A. tobaci or G. hirsuta, respectively, among different habitat types and thus depend more heavily on a regional habitat mosaic not likely to occur on a small island such as Tobago.
10.2307/3100087|We present a handy mechanistic functional response model that realistically incorporates handling (i.e., attacking and eating) and digesting prey. We briefly review current functional response theory and thereby demonstrate that such a model has been lacking so far. In our model, we treat digestion as a background process that does not prevent further foraging activities (i.e., searching and handling). Instead, we let the hunger level determine the probability that the predator searches for new prey. Additionally, our model takes into account time wasted through unsuccessful attacks. Since a main assumption of our model is that the predator's hunger is in a steady state, we term it the steady-state satiation (SSS) equation. The SSS equation yields a new formula for the asymptotic maximum predation rate (i.e., asymptotic maximum number of prey eaten per unit time, for prey density approaching infinity). According to this formula, maximum predation rate is determined not by the sum of the time spent for handling and digesting prey, but solely by the larger of these two terms. As a consequence, predators can be categorized into two types: handling-limited predators (where maximum predation rate is limited by handling time) and digestion-limited predators (where maximum predation rate is limited by digestion time). We give examples of both predator types. Based on available data, we suggest that most predators are digestion limited. The SSS equation is a conceptual mechanistic model. Two possible applications of this model are that (1) it can be used to calculate the effects of changing predator or prey characteristics (e.g., defenses) on predation rate and (2) optimal foraging models based on the SSS equation are testable alternatives to other approaches. This may improve optimal foraging theory, since one of its major problems has been the lack of alternative models.
27806883|Snow is a major determinant of forage availability for reindeer and caribou (Rangifer tarandus; hereafter Rangifer) in winter and is, consequently, a medium through which climate variation may influence population dynamics in this species. Periodic "icing" of winter ranges, where interludes of mild weather result in formation of crusted snow and basal ice that restrict access to forage, is held to be a cause of mass starvation, catastrophic declines in numbers, and even extirpation of local populations. It has been suggested that warming of the Arctic may result in increased frequency of winters with unfavorable snow and ice conditions, with serious consequences for Rangifer. This paper examines data on major declines in populations of Rangifer to determine the mechanism(s) of these events and the role of snow and ice conditions in them. Thirty-one declines, involving numerical decreases between 25% and 99%, were identified in 12 populations. Declines were of two types: the negative phase of irruptive oscillations, mainly associated with populations introduced into new habitat, and numerical fluctuation in persistently unstable established populations. The mechanisms of decline differed widely in both categories, ranging from wholly mortality to almost wholly emigration. In all cases, the observed dynamics are best interpreted as a product of interaction between internal processes (density dependence) and the external abiotic conditions (density independence). The strength and the form of density independence, parameterized in terms of local weather or large-scale climate, varies widely between populations, reflecting the enormous range of climate conditions across the circumpolar distribution of Rangifer. This complicates the search for abiotic components likely to be consistently important determinants of population growth in the species. There are few data demonstrating the presence of extensive hard snow or basal ice on ranges during winter(s) in which populations declined, and none confirming ice as a ubiquitous and potent agent in the dynamics of Rangifer. Instead, where the simultaneous effects of density-dependent and density-independent factors are examined across the full temporal record of dynamics, climatic conditions associated with increased amounts of snow or winter warming are generally found to enhance the abundance of animals, at least in established populations.
10.2307/1943062|Studies of ecomorphology--the relationship among species between morphology and ecology--contain two implicit and rarely tested hypotheses: (1) that morphological differences among species result in differences in performance capability at ecologically relevant tasks, which, in turn, produce differences in behavior and ecology; and (2) that morphology, performance capability, ecology and behavior have evolved synchronously. I tested these hypotheses using the Anolis lizards of Jamaica and Puerto Rico. I measured morphological and performance variables on recently caught lizards. Movement, display rate and microhabitat measurements were made on lizards observed in the field. Body size explained most of the variation in morphology and performance ability, but was not correlated with the ecological or behavioral variables. When the effect of body size is removed from the morphological and performance variables, the ecomorphological hypotheses were confirmed. Species that were similar morphologically were also similar in performance ability, ecology, and behavior. Evolutionary changes in morphology, performance, and ecology and behavior (ecobehavior) were correlated. The morphology--ecobehavior comparison revealed that: long-legged, heavy-bodied lizards jump farther in nature, jump and display more often, walk less often, and use wide perches that are distant from the nearest available perches; and that species with many subdigital lamellae perch lower, use narrower supports, and walk more frequently. Inclusion of performance parameters revealed a relationship, in agreement with biomechanical models, between body proportions and running and jumping capability; in turn, performance capability related to locomotor patterns and microhabitat use. Despite the relationship between lamellae number and ecobehavioral variables, clinging performance did not contribute to the correlations with either morphology or ecology.
10.2307/2657220|We compare two approaches to designing and analyzing monitoring studies to assess chronic, local environmental impacts. Intervention Analysis (IA) compares Before and After time series at an Impact site; a special case is Before-After, Control-Impact (BACI), using comparison sites as covariates to reduce extraneous variance and serial correlation. IVRS (impact vs. reference sites) compares Impact and Control sites with respect to Before-After change, treating the sites as experimental units. The IVRS estimate of an "effect" is the same as that of the simplest BACI (though not of others), but IVRS estimates error variance by variation among sites, while IA and BACI estimate it by variation over time. These approaches differ in goals, design, and models of the role of chance in determining the data. In IA and BACI, the goal is to determine change at the specific Impact site, so no Controls are needed. IA does not have controls and BACI's are not experimental controls, but covariates, deliberately chosen to be correlated with the Impact site. The goal given for IVRS is to compare hypothetical Impact and Control "populations," so the Controls are essential and are randomly chosen, perhaps with restrictions to make them independent of each other and (presumably) of Impact. IA and BACI inferences are model based: uncertainty arises from sampling error and natural temporal processes causing variation in the variable of concern (e.g., a species' abundance); these processes are modeled as the results of repeatable chance setups. IVRS inferences are design based: uncertainty arises from variation among sites, as well as the other two sources, and is modeled by the assumed random selection of Impact and Control sites, like the drawing of equiprobable numbers from a hat. We outline the formal analyses, showing that IVRS is simpler, and BACI more complex, than usually supposed. We then describe the principles and assumptions of IA and BACI, defining an "effect" as the difference between what happened after the impact and what would have happened without it, and stressing the need to justify chance models as reasonable representations of human uncertainty. We respond to comments on BACI, some of which arise from misunderstanding of these principles. IVRS's design-based justification is almost always invalid in real assessments: the Impact site is not chosen randomly. We show that "as if random" selection by "Nature" is untenable and that an approximation to this, while a possibly useful guide, cannot be used for inference. We argue that, without literal random assignment of treatments to sites, IVRS can only be model based. Its design and analyses will then be different, using and allowing for correlation between sites. It is likely to have low power and requires strong assumptions that are difficult to check, so should be used only when IA or BACI cannot be used, e.g., when there are no Before data.
10.2307/2937354|To estimate the effects of varying density on individual and population parameters of two infaunal, suspension-feeding bivalves, Protothaca staminea and Chione undatella, densities of both species were varied experimentally from their natural levels (X) in shallow, subtidal field enclosures in Mugu Lagoon, California. A factorial design with densities ranging from @2X to 8X in two sand habitat matrices of enclosures and from @2X to 4X in one mud habitat matrix permitted tests of both intra- and interspecific effects of density on (1) individual growth rate, (2) recruitment rate, and (3) survivorship rate. After each rate was estimated for each of four consecutive experimental periods spanning 24 mo with replacement of missing and dead clams at each sampling, a subsample of adult clams was sacrificed from each density treatment in the mud matrix and dissected to produce estimates of how reproductive effort (4) varied with density. Short-term (2-wk) migration rates (5) were estimated as a function of density in the two habitats in separate experiments involving no enclosures. Characteristic shell damage and results of a predator exclusion experiment that was sampled four times over 24 mo permitted clam mortality rates (6) as a function of density and size to be partitioned broadly by source for both habitats. For both Protothaca and Chione, growth rates was consistently depressed at high intraspecific densities. In mud, Protothaca's linear growth declined by 49% and Chione's by 38% as intraspecific density increased from @2-1X to 2-4X. Interspecific effects of density on growth were usually nonsignificant and were consistently far smaller than these large intraspecific effects. The dry mass of gonadal material per unit shell volume also declined significantly with increasing intraspecific density. Average percentage of total soft tissue mass found in gonads in June 1977 declined progressively by 38% in Protothaca and by 49% in Chione as intraspecific density was increased from @2-1X to 2-4X. In Protothaca, growth rate decreased at the same rate as reproductive effort with increases in density, demonstrating that Protothaca did not reallocate energy differentially among the competing processes of growth and reproduction as competitive stress changed. The strong effects of intraspecific density in the immediate vicinity of control densities implies intense resource limitation on both growth and reproduction in each species. The general lack of significant interspecific effects of density on both growth and reproductive effort implies ecological segregation. Food seems more likely than space to be the limiting resource which is partitioned between species because these clams occupy the same depth stratum, such that interference competition for space would presumably have interspecific as well as intraspecific components. In sand, recruitment rate of Protothaca was never related to adult density, whereas a single location parameter explained 76% in one matrix and 50% in the other of between-enclosure variance in recruitment. In mud, Protothaca recruitment was occasionally depressed at high adult density, but the decline was only @?40% as intraspecific adult density changed from 0-1X to 2-4X. Spatial location still explained 25% of total variance in recruitment in the mud. Chione's recruitment rate was lower by over one order of magnitude and much more variable from year to year than Protothaca's. On the one occasion when its recruitment was high enough to test for density effects, Chione recruited less in the presence of higher densities of adult Protothaca but showed no intraspecific effect. Emigration rate over 2 wk was density dependent in Protothaca in the sand habitat. Protothaca showed reduced mobility in the mud habitat such that the density dependence of emigration rate could not be tested. Chione was so sluggish that no emigration took place at high or at low density in either sand or mud. Annual Chione survivorship was quite high (averaging at least 88-96%) in every matrix over the 2-yr density manipulation experiment; however, in the 2nd yr of the predator exclusion experiment 10 cm of sedimentation from a once-in-100-yr rainstorm caused 100% mortality in the mud habitat. Mortality rate in Chione was never a significant function of density, and predation had little or no effect on the Chione used in this experiment. Annual survivorship of Protothaca was substantially lower (16-61%) than that of Chione in every matrix during each of the 2 yr of the density manipulation experiment. Survivorship of Protothaca was often significantly reduced at higher Protothaca densities in both habitats, although the effect was greater in the mud. The predator exclusion experiments demonstrated that both Protothaca's higher mortality rate and this occasional density dependence of mortality were entirely an effect of predation. In sand and mud, most predation was of the type that removed the shell, though characteristic shell damage of empty shells revealed that Polinices reclusianus in sand and, to a lesser degree, Cancer anthonyi in mud also contributed significantly. The importance of various types of predators changed dramatically between @'replicate@' years. Predation by sources that removed shells fell most heavily on smaller Protothaca in both habitats; in the sand this decline in risk with size was occasionally compensated by Polinices' preference for larger Protothaca. As with Chione, percent Protothaca mortality from all sources which leave undamaged shells (including starvation) never increased with increasing clam density. Thus, despite evident resource limitation on growth and reproductive effort, competition did not produce mortality effects in the range of densities used. The differing susceptibilities of Protothaca and Chione to predation and the contingent life history differences may be based upon differences in shell thickness, size, and ornamentation and may be a consequence of Chione's more tropical evolutionary history.
10.2307/1942312|The sea pen Ptilosarcus gurneyi Gray provides a major source of food for at least seven predator species in Puget Sound: the asteroids Hippasteria spinosa, Dermasterias imbricata, Crossaster papposus, and Mediaster aequalis, and the nudibranchs Armina californica, Tritonia festiva, and Hermissenda crassicornis. Ptilosarcus is long-lived (15 yr +), takes 5 or 6 yr to reach sexual maturity, and has a spatially clumped pattern of recruitment. It never grows large enough to avoid predation by four of its predators, and the refuges and escape mechanisms of Ptilosarcus are not sufficient to explain its abundance in the face of this predation. Determination of rates of critical life history processes of species involved in this association, e.g., recruitment, growth, and predation, permitted estimates of the effects of the activities of each species on the others in the association. Particular attention was paid to age structure and to the natural history during the periods shortly following metamorphosis of each species. In dense recruitment patches, 97% of Ptilosarcus mortality occurs during the 1st year because of predation by Hermissenda, Tritonia, and Crossaster. Adult pens are eaten by Hippasteria, Dermasterias, Mediaster, and Armina, which together remove 2 pens/m^2@?yr, or 3.1% from the 10 adult year classes combined. The latter four predator species selectively prey upon the largest pens available. The time required for capture and consumption increases at a slower rate with prey size than does prey biomass. Recruitment of the long-lived food specialist Hippasteria seems to be impaired by the spatially unpredictable and clumped nature of Ptilosarcus recruitment. Although the adults have an opulent food supply, the young Hippasteria require small Ptilosarcus to feed on and rarely find enough. The generalists, which are not dependent upon one prey during their recruitment and are able to maintain themselves without Ptilosarcus, could in theory increase until they have reduced the sea pen populations to below the level needed by the specialists and thus outcompete them. However, predation on the generalists by a higher order predator, the asteroid Solaster dawsoni, removes each year at least 9.4% of the adult Mediaster and 38% of the adult Crossaster, a rate at least as great as, and usually greater than, the rate of recruitment into the populations of adult prey. The characteristic organization of the Ptilosarcus association and the existence of Hippasteria may depend upon S. dawsoni.
10.2307/2937256|We investigate specific production rates (per unit biomass) of populations using published data on the relation of annual production/mean biomass (P/B). Aquatic and terrestrial invertebrates between the sizes of copepods and clams are emphasized, ranging about 10^5-fold in body mass upon reaching maturity (M"s, in kcal to compare with respiratory energy expense) and about 10^2-fold in P/B. Fishes and mammals are briefly treated; phytoplankton is mentioned. For 33 invertebrates living at annual mean temperatures between about 5@? and 20@?C, M"s is shown to be an efficient and precise estimator, or scaling factor, of the annual P/B. The rate declines markedly with M"s according to P/B = 0.65M"s^-^0^.^3^7. The exponent differs significantly from the -0.25 power of comparative physiology. Most of the measured values of P/B fall within 50 to 200% of predicted values. Much of this variability is associated with the ratio of annual production/annual respiration (P/R): for a given M"s, species achieving about half the predicted P/B have P/R ratios of about 0.1; those achieving twice the predicted P/B have P/R ratios of about 1.0. Age upon reaching maturity contributes some variability, with late-maturing (>1 yr) species tending towards a higher P/B. The variability is not significantly correlated with phylogenetic relationships (excepting insects for which P/B might not be mass-dependent), trophic type, major habitat, production rate, or biomass of the populations. The values of P/B of invertebrates living at annual mean temperatures @>25@? may be elevated over those of temperate species of the same M"s, while those of polar forms are depressed. The reasons for a single power function governing the mass dependence of P/B of temperate invertebrates, and for the particular exponent, are unclear; an ecological cause, i.e., mortality, combining with the general size dependence of life processes, is implicated. On the average, the annual specific mortality rate equals P/B and hence also declines by 0.65M"s^-^0^.^3^7. Very small metazoans (pelagic rotifers, benthic meiofauna) tend to have an appreciably lower P/B than indicated by the relationship for larger invertebrates. A refuge from predation by being small is postulated which may also apply for phytoplankton. For meiofauna, a power function of mass dependence of P/B with average rates 3-5 times below those of the larger invertebrates is suggested. Annual P/B values of fishes and mammals likewise decline by a power function of M"s; the few available data yield exponents of -0.26 and -0.33, respectively. Ecological reasons are again invoked. Values of P/B and the specific mortality rates of temperate fishes seem to be 4-5 times, and those of mammals 20-25 times, higher than those of temperate invertebrates of the same mass.
10.2307/2937346|Recovery of a desert stream after an intense flash flooding event is described as a model of temporal succession in lotic ecosystems. A late summer flood in Sycamore Creek, Arizona, virtually eliminated algae and reduced invertebrate standing crop by 98%. Physical and morphometric conditions typical of the preflood period were restored in 2 d and the biota recovered in 2-3 wk. Algal communities responded rapidly and achieved a standing crop of nearly 100 g/m^2 in 2 wk. Community composition was dominated by diatoms early in succession and by filamentous greens and blue-greens later. Macroinvertebrates also recolonized denuded substrates rapidly, largely by immigration of aerial adults and subsequent oviposition. Growth and development were rapid and several generations of the dominant mayfly and dipteran taxa were completed during the 1st mo of recovery. Invertebrate dry biomass reached 7.3 g/m^2 in 1 mo. Gross primary production (P"g) measured as O"2 increased in a similar asymptotic fashion and reached 6.6 g@?m^-^2@?d^-^1 in 30 d. P"g exceeded community respiration (R) after day 5 and P"g/R averaged 1.46 for the remainder of the 2-mo sequence. This ecosystem is thus autotrophic and exports organic matter downstream and by drying, laterally. Uptake of nitrate and phosphorus were proportional to net primary production and exhibited a marked downstream decline in concentration during both light and dark periods. Temporal trajectories of various community and ecosystem attributes are compared with those suggested by Odum (1969) to be diagnostic of successional status. Agreement was poor in attributes which are especially modified in open, frequently disturbed ecosystems such as streams.
27646023|The ramifying effects of top predators on food webs traditionally have been studied within the framework of trophic cascades. Trophic cascades are compelling because they embody powerful indirect effects of predators on primary production. Although less studied, indirect effects of predators may occur via routes that are not exclusively trophic. We quantified how the introduction of foxes onto the Aleutian Islands transformed plant communities by reducing abundant seabird populations, thereby disrupting nutrient subsidies vectored by seabirds from sea to land. We compared soil and plant fertility, plant biomass and community composition, and stable isotopes of nitrogen in soil, plants, and other organisms on nine fox-infested and nine historically fox-free islands across the Aleutians. Additionally, we experimentally augmented nutrients on a fox-infested island to test whether differences in plant productivity and composition between fox-infested and fox-free islands could have arisen from differences in nutrient inputs between island types. Islands with historical fox infestations had soils low in phosphorus and nitrogen and plants low in tissue nitrogen. Soils, plants, slugs, flies, spiders, and bird droppings on these islands had low 15N values indicating that these organisms obtained nitrogen from internally derived sources. In contrast, soils, plants, and higher trophic level organisms on fox-free islands had elevated 15N signatures indicating that they utilized nutrients derived from the marine environment. Furthermore, soil phosphorus (but not nitrogen) and plant tissue nitrogen were higher on fox-free than fox-infested islands. Nutrient subsidized fox-free islands supported lush, high biomass plant communities dominated by graminoids. Fox-infested islands were less graminoid dominated and had higher cover and biomass of low-lying forbs and dwarf shrubs. While 15N profiles of soils and plants and graminoid biomass varied with island size and distance from shore, after accounting for these effects differences between fox-infested and fox-free islands still existed. Fertilization over four years caused a 24-fold increase in graminoid biomass and a shift toward a more graminoid dominated plant community typical of fox-free islands. These results indicate that apex predators can influence plant productivity and composition through complex interaction web pathways involving both top-down forcing and bottom-up nutrient exchanges across systems.
27806887|Stochasticity is rarely explicitly investigated as a determinant of patterns of habitat use, even though evidence of its influence would undermine support for deterministic models of habitat selection. To assess the role of stochasticity in generating patterns in habitat use, we compared observed patterns of year-to-year variation in habitat use of 20 bird species over five years with patterns randomly generated from null models with different biological constraints (i.e., abundance, territoriality, exclusion of unused habitat, site fidelity, and habitat preference). We were able to recreate patterns of variability in spatial distributions with one or more null models for 18 species, suggesting an important role of stochasticity. Although year-to-year variability could be modeled as a purely stochastic process for only four species, null models in which random variability was constrained by the influences of vegetation or site fidelity collectively matched the observed patterns of variability of all 18 species. Support for these two models suggested that factors that increase the likelihood of returning to a previously used area and thus limit the spatial extent of random territory placement can generate patterns similar to those we observed. Greater support for models with preference constraints (i.e., models that included birdvegetation associations) over models with avoidance constraints (i.e., models that excluded areas that were never occupied) indicated that preference was the primary mode of habitat selection. Stochastic patterns in habitat use may have resulted from a weak relationship between habitat selection and habitat quality, influence of non-vegetation habitat features (e.g., climatic fluctuations), nonequilibrium conditions, and a greater influence of stochastic variation at small spatial and temporal scales. Alternatively, responses to environmental cues may have been deterministic, but in summation, these responses may have created variability in spatial distribution patterns that was indistinguishable from random variation. In such cases, we suggest that it may be easier to model variation in habitat use as a random process rather than using deterministic models that account for a multitude of environmental factors influencing habitat selection of birds. Regardless, stochasticity may play a larger role in generating patterns of habitat use than is often considered, and it deserves wider attention.
10.2307/2657244|The sublethal effects of high predation risk on both prey behavior and physiology may have long-term consequences for prey population dynamics. We tested the hypothesis that snowshoe hares during the population decline are chronically stressed because of high predation risk whereas those during the population low are not, and that this has negative effects on both their physiology and demography. Snowshoe hares exhibit 10-yr population cycles; during declines, virtually every hare that dies is killed by a predator. We assessed the physiological responsiveness of the stress axis and of energy mobilization by subjecting hares during the population decline and low to a hormonal-challenge protocol. We monitored the population demography through live-trapping and assessed reproduction through a maternal-cage technique. During the 1990s' decline in the Yukon, Canada, hares were chronically stressed-as indicated by higher levels of free cortisol, reduced maximum corticosteroid-binding capacity, reduced testosterone response, reduced index of body condition, reduced leucocyte counts, increased overwinter body-mass loss, and increased glucose mobilization, relative to hares during the population low. This evidence is consistent with the explanation that predation risk, not high hare density or poor nutritional condition, accounted for the chronic stress and for the marked deterioration of reproduction during the decline. Reproduction and indices of stress physiology did not improve until predation risk declined. These findings may also account for the lag in recovery of hare reproduction after predator densities have declined and thus may implicate the long-term consequences of predation risk on prey populations beyond the immediate effects of predators on prey behavior and physiology.
4539113|A key issue in ecology is to identify the appropriate scale(s) at which to observe trends in ecosystem behavior. The characteristic length scale (CLS) is a natural scale of a system at which the underlying deterministic dynamics are most clearly observed. Any approach to estimating CLSs of a natural system must be able to accommodate complex nonlinear dynamics and must have realistic requirements for data. Here, we compare the robustness of two methods to estimate CLSs of dynamical systems, both of which use attractor reconstruction to account for the complex oscillatory dynamics of ecological systems. We apply these techniques to estimate CLSs of spatial multispecies systems of varying complexity, and show that both methods are robust for the simplest system, but as model complexity increases, the Pascual and Levin metric is more robust than that of Keeling et al. Both methods demonstrate some sensitivity to the choice of species used in the analysis, with closely connected species producing more similar CLSs than loosely connected species. In this context, connectivity is determined both by the topology of the interaction network and spatial organization in the system. Notably, systems showing complex spatial self-organization can yield multiple CLSs, with larger length scales indicating the emergent dynamics of interactions between patches. While the prediction r
10.2307/2937359|Aspects of community structure and nutrient circulation are described for the cypress (Taxodium distichum) forest in Okefenokee Swamp, Georgia, USA. This bog environment is characterized by low nutrient availability and large peat accumulations. The tree stratum of the forest is dominated by cypress, which is probably due to recurrent understory fires which eliminate other swamp species. In stands throughout the cypress forest, the density and total basal area of living stems >4 cm diameter vary greatly, but mean values (1,465 stems/ha; 52 m^2/ha) are high compared to upland forests. Natural thinning appears to be unimportant. Abundant standing dead trees suggest that differences in density among stands are due to past differences in the frequency and intensity of forest fires during periodic droughts. At an intensive study site, biomass and net primary production were measured using techniques of dimension analysis. Cypress trees compose 98% of the total forest above-water biomass of 307 tonnes/ha. Most of the cypress biomass is in tree boles (96%), little is in foliage (0.8%). Presumably due to the acid, nutrient-poor conditions in the swamp, total above-water net primary productivity is low (692 g@?m^-^2@?yr^-^1); the high biomass is the result of the old age (150 yr) of the stand and the high density of trees. Cypress net production is largely channeled into bole wood (41%) and current twigs with needles (41%). It appears that in recent years, above-water biomass has been maintained at a constant level by fire-induced thinning. The nutrient pools in the above-water community are large (666 kg/ha Ca, 111 kg/ha Mg, 230 kg/ha K, 996 kg/ha N and 46 kg/ha P). These nutrients are largely contained in cypress boles and do not freely circulate. The annual nutrient uptake in the forest is rather small compared to that in upland forests. The nutrient uptake (54 kg@?ha^-^1@?yr^-^1 Ca, 11 each for Mg and K and 2.3 for P) is largely channeled to the small amount (231 g/m^2) of very efficient cypress foliage. Foliage abscission and foliar leaching by rainfall return 73 to 91% of the annual nutrient uptakes each year; therefore, there are only small permanent additions of nutrients to the above-water pools each year. Except for K which is apparently reabsorbed from foliage before abscission, the cypress trees do not appear to conserve foliar nutrients. However, nutrient conservation may be effected by minimizing the amount of foliage. Litterfall from the forest has resulted in a large accumulation of peat. Although some nutrient regeneration apparently occurs, these peat deposits contain large, permanent nutrient losses from the community. Nutrients cycling is dissolved form (e.g., foliar leachates) and nutrients received from atmospheric precipitation are likely to be of special importance to the nutrition of this closed-basin swamp forest community.
10.2307/2937110|We conducted a field experiment to assess interrelationships between leaf-tissue secondary chemistry, avian predation, and the abundance and diversity of arthropods occurring on sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) in central Oregon. Arthropods were removed from individual shrubs, some of which were then caged to exclude birds. Secondary chemistry and arthropods were sampled at intervals up to 56 wk following the defaunation/caging treatment. Recovery rates differed among arthropod taxa and functional groups. Several sap-sucking homopterans and hemipterans reached control levels within 2-4 wk of the treatment, whereas abundances of parasitoids and predators recovered to match control numbers only 6 wk after defaunation. Abundances of several herbivorous leaf-chewing taxa (primarily lepidopteran larvae) remained significantly depressed even 56 wk after the treatment. Fungivores (oribatid mites) reached greater abundances on defaunated than on control shrubs by the end of the experiment. There were also significant changes in the concentrations or frequency of occurrence of several chemical compounds following the defaunation treatment. Several hydrocarbons, sesquiterpenes, and monoterpenes that were present in most shrubs exhibited sharply reduced concentrations in leaf tissues within 4 wk of the treatment, whereas some alcohols and ketones (linalool, borneol, thujone), which occurred at relatively low frequencies among control plants, increased dramatically in their frequencies of occurrence following arthropod removal. Both changes persisted for the duration of the experiment. We found several significant associations between the abundance or occurrence of arthropod taxa or groups and concentrations or frequencies of secondary compounds, but these were most prevalent among the leaf-chewing lepidopterans. We suggest that the shrubs responded to the removal of herbivorous, leaf-chewing arthropods by altering chemical allocation patterns; the changes in chemistry persisted for over a year because recolonization of the defaunated plants by these herbivores was slow. Effects of the caging treatment were much less obvious. The recovery of the diversity of arthropods known to constitute prey for birds in this system was slower on shrubs protected from avian predation than on exposed shrubs, but a year after defaunation diversity had increased to higher levels on the protected shrubs. Few arthropod taxa or functional groups differed in abundance or frequency of occurrence between caged and uncaged shrubs, although fungivores (which are not eaten by birds) increased to levels on protected shrubs that were nearly twice those on the uncaged controls by the end of the experiment. Between-shrub variance in the abundance and diversity of bird-prey taxa was greater among exposed than protected shrubs, possibly reflecting the effects of area-restricted searching by the birds. There were no differences in leaf-tissue secondary chemistry between caged and uncaged shrubs.
10.2307/1942652|Mole crabs of the genus Emerita are successful colonizers of exposed sandy beaches, in spite of the severity of the physical environment. An adult population of Emerita talpoida (Say) was studied for 2 yr to determine possible changes of its life history pattern as a consequence of its physically severe habitat. Adult populations were sampled in four localities on Bogue Banks, North Carolina, USA, monthly during 1972 and in March, June and September 1973. Size distribution--in spite of some transient differences in the abundance of the larger individuals--was similar at all localities in each month of the year, and underwent dramatic simultaneous changes in spring and summer. The changes in spring resulted from rapid growth of overwintering animals. Changes in summer were produced by the recruitment of new individuals and the death of many large ones. Although size distribution was similar at all localities, significant differences in abundance were found in each month for all sizes except the smallest, suggesting that recruitment was simultaneous and of equal magnitude all along Bogue Banks. In spring, ovigerous females were larger, and carried a greater number of larger eggs. However in summer females were more abundant and produced several clutches. Most recruitment occurred in September as a result of the summer spawning. A greater proportion of females was observed in spring and fall. The spring peak was caused by death of the larger males. The fall peak was caused by a large recruitment of females (63%). When males died in spring, they were about half the size of the largest females observed. No increase in the number of medium-size females was observed in spring. In both sexes the mortality rates were constant, but greater for males, resulting in a shorter life expectancy for the latter. Thus it appears unlikely that sex reversal in males occurs in Emerita talpoida. Survival curves indicate that if sex reversal occurs in this species it would happen at a constant rate in all age intervals. Sex reversal was not observed under laboratory conditions. Life table parameters calculated from data for 1972 indicate that the population has expanded in the recent past, assuming egg production to be independent of density. This result, along with the appearance of larger females in 1973 (which were less abundant in 1972) suggests that in 1972 the population was recovering from mortality probably caused by two hurricanes in the fall of 1971.
4539077|Differentiation of species distributions along environmental gradients and phenotypic specialization help explain the co-presence of 17 oak species that might otherwise be expected to competitively exclude one another. In an effort to understand the role of niche differentiation in the co-presence of these congeneric species in north-central Florida, we examined the community structure of oak-dominated forests in this region in relation to environmental variables and a suite of life history and physiological traits. Landscape distribution patterns of oaks and other woody species were determined from randomly established plots in three state parks. Soil moisture, nutrient availability, and fire regime were found to be critical factors influencing community structure, and the distribution of oak species was strongly correlated with these gradients. Detrended correspondence analysis of species' distributions supported the grouping of oak species into three major community types: (1) hammock, (2) sandhill, and (3) scrub. Principal components of multiple traits also supported differentiation of oak species into these three groups. There is clear evidence for ecological sorting among the oaks in these forests as species partition environmental gradients more than expected by chance, and most functional traits of species correspond to species distributions as predicted based on a priori understanding of trait function. Across phylogenetic lineages, species showed evolutionary convergence in function and habitat preference. In contrast, leaf-level traits were conserved within phylogenetic lineages and were not well correlated with local habitat factors, but rather with the broader geographic distributions and northern range limits of species. The cumulative results reported here provide strong evidence that oak species specialize for particular niches via trade-offs in functional traits, and such niche partitioning contributes to the high diversity of oak species at the landscape level. At smaller spatial scales, phylogenetic diversity among the oaks is likely to be important in promoting their coexistence through other mechanisms.
10.2307/1942518|After metamorphosis, smooth or common newts (Triturus vulgaris vulgaris [Linn]) disperse on land, where they live as juveniles before returning to the water as breeding adults. The population age-structure was obtained by dissecting the standard length frequency distribution, a procedure which is justified in the text. Juveniles have an uncomplicated age-structure, the number of individuals in successively later age-classes being reduced by mortality and by recruitment to the adult population. Among adult newts, the most frequent age-class is nearly central, indicating the existence of extensive variation in the age at maturity. Growth continues throughout life, the rate of growth decreasing with age. The annual survival rate of adult newts as estimated by a census method, and from the age-structure, was found to be ~ 50%, being rather greater in @V @V than in @M @M. Less reliable data indicate the annual survival rate of juveniles was ~ 80%. Maturity is attained between the ages of 3 and 7 yr, most individuals reproducing for the first time at 6 or 7 yr of age. The number of eggs laid increases with age from ~ 100 at age 3 to ~ 400 at age 12; there is also an effect of @V age on oocyte size, which may influence subsequent larval survival. Smooth newts breed annually. Reproduction diverts surplus energy from somatic growth, and thereby decreases potential future fecundity in animals whose fecundity is proportional to body size. Individuals maturing at different ages, therefore, have different schedules of fecundity, which were estimated through the use of microbomb calorimetry. Population size was found to be lognormally distributed, with a mean of ~ 70. The sex ratio of juvenile newts was near equality, but a majority of @V @V comprised most adult populations. This imbalance is due to greater mortality of adult @M @M, which results in an age-specific trend in the sex ratio. There are 2 breeding migrations: 1 in autumn and 1 in spring. It is likely that newts migrate during autumn when about to reproduce for the first time, and thereafter migrate during spring. Terrestrial newts appear to move little; there is some evidence that colonization of newly dug ponds is achieved by the infrequent emigration of juveniles. During its life, a smooth newt occupies a succession of ecological niches. Moreover, different individuals may occupy different niches, or may occupy the same niches for different periods of time. It is speculated that in large newt populations the complex life history is able to trap genetic variation and to dampen fluctuations in population size. However, it is suggested that these group attributes have arisen largely as the result of selection between individuals. Breeding only once (rather than repeatedly) will reduce fitness because the additional fecundity necessary to balance the loss of later reproduction cannot be attained. Early maturity appears to be favored in @M @M and late maturity in @M @M; these opposed selection pressures may contribute to the observed age variation at maturity. Finally, the sex ratio does not vary with population density, and is therefore thought to be controlled by natural selection.
10.2307/2657162|Fundamental plant-environment relationships were revealed by analyses of 20-yr height and survival of 118 populations representing two subspecies of Pinus contorta growing in common gardens at 60 environmentally disparate test sites in British Columbia. The approach involved (1) preparing models that described the general climate of British Columbia, (2) developing population-specific response functions driven by predicted climate variables, (3) developing general transfer functions that predict performance from the climatic distances over which populations were transferred, and (4) interpreting the results in terms of niche breadth, effects of climate change on adaptedness of populations, and reforestation in a changing environment. Polynomial regression models used physiographic descriptors to predict seven climate variables from normalized records of 513 weather stations. Values of R
10.2307/2937171|The understanding of the dynamics of animal populations and of related ecological and evolutionary issues frequently depends on a direct analysis of life history parameters. For instance, examination of trade-offs between reproduction and survival usually rely on individually marked animals, for which the exact time of death is most often unknown, because marked individuals cannot be followed closely through time. Thus, the quantitative analysis of survival studies and experiments must be based on capture-recapture (or resighting) models which consider, besides the parameters of primary interest, recapture or resighting rates that are nuisance parameters. Capture-recapture models oriented to estimation of survival rates are the result of a recent change in emphasis from earlier approaches in which population size was the most important parameter, survival rates having been first introduced as nuisance parameters. This emphasis on survival rates in capture-recapture models developed rapidly in the 1980s and used as a basic structure the Cormack-Jolly-Seber survival model applied to an homogeneous group of animals, with various kinds of constraints on the model parameters. These approaches are conditional on first captures; hence they do not attempt to model the initial capture of unmarked animals as functions of population abundance in addition to survival and capture probabilities. This paper synthesizes, using a common framework, these recent developments together with new ones, with an emphasis on flexibility in modeling, model selection, and the analysis of multiple data sets. The effects on survival and capture rates of time, age, and categorical variables characterizing the individuals (e.g., sex) can be considered, as well as interactions between such effects. This @'analysis of variance@' philosophy emphasizes the structure of the survival and capture process rather than the technical characteristics of any particular model. The flexible array of models encompassed in this synthesis uses a common notation. As a result of the great level of flexibility and relevance achieved, the focus is changed from fitting a particular model to model building and model selection. The following procedure is recommended: (1) start from a global model compatible with the biology of the species studied and with the design of the study, and assess its fit; (2) select a more parsimonious model using Akaike's Information Criterion to limit the number of formal tests; (3) test for the most important biological questions by comparing this model with neighboring ones using likelihood ratio tests; and (4) obtain maximum likelihood estimates of model parameters with estimates of precision. Computer software is critical, as few of the models now available have parameter estimators that are in closed form. A comprehensive table of existing computer software is provided. We used RELEASE for data summary and goodness-of-fit tests and SURGE for iterative model fitting and the computation of likelihood ratio tests. Five increasingly complex examples are given to illustrate the theory. The first, using two data sets on the European Dipper (Cinclus cinclus), tests for sex-specific parameters, explores a model with time-dependent survival rates, and finally uses a priori information to model survival allowing for an environmental variable. The second uses data on two colonies of the Swift (Apus apus), and shows how interaction terms can be modeled and assessed and how survival and recapture rates sometimes partly counterbalance each other. The third shows complex variation in survival rates across sexes and age classes in the roe deer (Capreolus capreolus), with a test of density dependence in annual survival rates. The fourth is an example of experimental density manipulation using the common lizard (Lacerta vivipara). The last example attempts to examine a large and complex data set on the Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber), where parameters are age specific, survival is a function of an environmental variable, and an age x year interaction term is important. Heterogeneity seems present in this example and cannot be adequately modeled with existing theory. The discussion presents a summary of the paradigm we recommend and details issues in model selection and design, and foreseeable future developments.
40385221|The dynamics of ecological communities emerge from the interplay of local and regional processes, but there are few long-term data on multiple interacting species across multiple sites to evaluate these processes. We report the population dynamics of two species of treefrogs, the spring peeper (Pseudacris crucifer) and the chorus frog (P. triseriata), in 37 ponds over 11 years. We examined the relation between larval traits of these species and responses to environmental change (a severe drought) at the local (pond) level, and the consequences to regional dynamics of the species. Consistent with experimental evidence, predators limited abundances of both species, competitive effects were undetectable, and pond hydroperiod and forest canopy cover affected species' presences and population sizes. The drought caused strong reductions in pond hydroperiods and predator densities, which led to increases in colonization probability and decreases in extinction probability for the chorus frog. These habitat dynamics resulted in the colonization of 15 new ponds and exponential growth in regional population size of the chorus frog. Colonization probability was positively related to pond connectivity. Pond occupancy rates for the spring peeper were relatively constant, but important source ponds on the landscape changed with the drought. Ponds with extensive forest canopy cover were sink habitats for both species, and high pond connectivity appeared to be necessary to maintain species' presences in these habitats. Landscape dynamics were responsible for changes in the fundamental spatial structure of species' populations, e.g., the chorus frog transitioned between approximations of a classic metapopulation and a patchy population over the course of the study. Many of these results were driven by the interplay of climate variation and spatial food web structure, indicating the importance of incorporating this interaction into metacommunity theory. Our results further indicate the crucial role of habitat (pond) heterogeneity to species persistence, i.e., moderating the potential Moran effects of spatially correlated weather conditions. Overall this study illustrates: (1) how natural systems constantly transition between metapopulation/metacommunity states typically treated as static in the literature, (2) the extensive interconnection of phenomena at different scales in ecology, and (3) the importance of habitat heterogeneity and landscape context for amphibian conservation strategies.
10.2307/2937248|The suggestion that in less stable environments resource limitation and subsequent interspecific competition may be relatively unimportant in determining bird community structure is explored by examining the dietary relationships within a guild of three ground-foraging passerine birds (Horned Lark, Sage Sparrow, and Western Meadowlark) in the shrubsteppe of southeastern Washington, USA, an area of severe, arid, unstable climate. General dietary analyses indicated a strong temporal component to the organization of bird diets: different species collected at the same time ate much the same things while the same species collected at different times ate different things. This pattern is reinforced by cluster analysis and stepwise discriminant analysis. Similarities in diet extended to other components as well. Dietary diversities tended to be the same for contemporaneous collections of birds, as did average prey sizes, although the latter evidenced a few statistically significant exceptions. Theoretically predicted relationships between diet and trophic structure morphology emerged only at the most general level, and even then were not always observed. In general, differences in body size or bill length were insufficient to account for variations in prey sizes, although meadowlarks did on occasion take significantly larger items than the other, smaller species. Average prey size was significantly correlated with the proportion of seeds in the diet and varied seasonally as seed consumption varied. Several aspects of this study indicate that shrubsteppe passerines are largely opportunistic in their foraging and diet selection, and that the apparent absence of fine tuning to their competitive milieu is most likely a function of the variable environment in which they coexist.
41739370|Species spatial distributions are the result of population demography, behavioral traits, and species interactions in spatially heterogeneous environmental conditions. Hence the composition of species assemblages is an integrative response variable, and its variability can be explained by the complex interplay among several structuring factors. The thorough analysis of spatial variation in species assemblages may help infer processes shaping ecological communities. We suggest that ecological studies would benefit from the combined use of the classical statistical models of community composition data, such as constrained or unconstrained multivariate analyses of site-by-species abundance tables, with rapidly emerging and diversifying methods of spatial pattern analysis. Doing so allows one to deal with spatially explicit ecological models of beta diversity in a biogeographic context through the multiscale analysis of spatial patterns in original species data tables, including spatial characterization of fitted or residual variation from environmental models. We summarize here the recent progress for specifying spatial features through spatial weighting matrices and spatial eigenfunctions in order to define spatially constrained or scale-explicit multivariate analyses. Through a worked example on tropical tree communities, we also show the potential of the overall approach to identify significant residual spatial patterns that could arise from the omission of important unmeasured explanatory variables or processes.
27646142|Patterns of recruitment in marine ecosystems can reflect the distribution of adults, dispersal by ocean currents, or patterns of mortality after settlement. In turn, patterns of recruitment can play an important role in determining patterns of adult abundance and community dynamics. Here we examine the biogeographic structure of recruitment variability along the U.S. West Coast and examine its association with temperature variability. From 1997 to 2004 we monitored monthly recruitment rates of dominant intertidal invertebrates, mussels and barnacles, at 26 rocky shore sites on the West Coast of the United States, from northern Oregon to southern California, a span of 1750 km of coastline. We examined spatial variation in the dynamics of recruitment rates and their relationship to coastal oceanography using satellite-derived time series of monthly sea surface temperature (SST). Recruitment rates showed a biogeographic structure with large regions under similar dynamics delimited by abrupt transitions. The seasonal peak in recruitment rates for both mussels and barnacles changed from a late summerearly fall peak in Oregon to winter or early spring in northern California, and then back toward summer in southern California. Recruitment rates varied greatly in magnitude across the latitudinal range. The barnacle Balanus glandula and mussels (Mytilus spp.) showed a decline of two orders of magnitude south of Oregon. In contrast, recruitment rates of barnacles of the genus Chthamalus showed a variable pattern across the region examined. The spatial distribution of associations between raw SST and recruitment rates for all species showed positive associations, indicating recruitment during warm months, for all species in Oregon, northern California, and several sites in south-central California. By considerably extending the spatial and temporal scales beyond that of previous studies on larval recruitment rates in this system, our study has identified major biogeographic breaks around Cape Blanco and Point Conception despite considerable spatial and temporal variation within each region and among species. These large differences in recruitment rates across biogeographic scales highlight the need for a better understanding of larval responses to ocean circulation patterns in the conservation and management of coastal ecosystems.
10.2307/1942532|Habitat use characteristics of all bird species occurring in the lower Colorado River valley were studied. Seventy-two transects, each through homogeneous stands of vegetation and together representing all riparian habitat types occurring in the area, were censused three times monthly for 2 yr (1977, 1978) to provide distributional records for all species. From the census data we divided the transects into three groups for each bird species each season: transects where the species was recorded in both 1977 and 1978, transects where the species was absent both years, and transects where the species occurred in only one of the years. We used discriminant analyses to classify the habitat on each transect as suitable or unsuitable for each species, using a set of eight species composition measures, four foliage density measures, and foliage height diversity (FHD). Mean habitat discriminability of all species varied from a low of 86% in summer to a high of 91% in late summer. Most species showed extensive variability among seasons in both the degree of habitat selectivity and the criteria used in habitat selection. This variability reflected both changes in population structure of the species and responses to changing resource and climatic pressures. Ecological attributes of the species were examined to determine which factors shaped the habitat use patterns of each. Feeding guild played only a small role in both the degree and criteria of habitat selectivity, except for highly specialized feeders such as nectivores and frugivores. Species with restricted distributions were usually habitat specialists, but species with widespread distributions included both habitat generalists and specialists. During spring and summer nonresident, short-stay species showed greater habitat selectivity than did extended-stay species, but during nonbreeding seasons both short-stay and extended-stay species showed equivalent habitat selectivity. That both the mix of habitat generalists and specialists and the habitat selectivity of individual species varied seasonally implies that the organization of habitat use of the community is the dynamic product of many interacting factors. The importance of individual habitat attributes was also examined. Species showed preferences for particular habitat attributes significantly more frequently than they avoided habitat attributes. FHD was the most frequently important variable in differentiating areas used from areas not used. Proportions of honey mesquite, cottonwood, and willow in the vegetation were also frequently important variables in habitat selection by avian species, but usually in conjunction with FHD. Foliage density characteristics were less frequently significant, but for species where these measures were important, they tended to be the primary habitat selection criterion. In summer and late summer, habitat selection criteria of individual species seemed independent of the selection criteria of the other species in the community. In other seasons there was evidence of species interactions in these habitat selection patterns. These empirical findings for an entire avian community over all seasons are an advance in our understanding of how habitat use patterns of communities are organized. The extensive seasonal variability in habitat use by avian species and variability of distributions of individual species between years imply that studies of community organization can best be done with large-scale, long-term studies.
27646095|A functionalstructural plant growth model was used to explore how selection might influence the ontogenetic patterns in three-dimensional (3-D) growth of trees. The 3-D plant structure is defined by the orientation of metamers. The dynamics in the 3-D plant structure depend on the production of metamers and/or leaf pipes and the loss of such plant components. In the simulations, metamer and leaf-pipe traits were kept constant, so all ontogenetic changes depended on the spatial arrangement of metamers and/or leaf pipes. This study explores the consequences of three new assumptions for ontogenetic changes in 3-D plant structure: (1) meristems are produced at the positions where branches fall, thus enabling a tree to maintain a viable meristem population within the crown; (2) metamers are placed at meristem positions in the 3-D structure where the carbon benefit over the expected life span of a leaf pipe is maximized; (3) the carbon allocation to reproduction maximizes the long-term reproductive output. In combination with the constraints set by the morphology of metamer and leaf pipe, the carbon economy, and light conditions, these assumptions explain how selection may cause a sigmoid expansion phase and a stable steady-state phase; adaptive responses in 3-D structure during ontogeny; limits to tree size (including height); constant allometric scaling during the expansion phase; different scaling for trees in different light environments; and responses in optimal reproductive allocation to forest light environments. These results support the idea that selection for maximizing the net carbon gain determines how trees change in 3-D tree structure during ontogeny and, at the same time, how they acclimate in 3-D structure in response to light gradients.
10.2307/1942176|Community development was followed for 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 years on unglazed ceramic tile plates (232 cm2), suspended horizontally beneath the Duke University Marine Laboratory dock, in Beaufort, North Carolina. Series of 3 or 4 plates were submerged at approximately the 1st of each month from May-November 1971 and from April-November 1972. Percentage cover for each species that settled and grew on the lower surface was estimated at 6- to 8-week intervals, using 75 points randomly positioned over the plate area. Samples were nondestructive; plates were resubmerged after each census. Larval recruitment was estimated at 1- to 3-week intervals on newly submerged plates. Temperature and salinity were also measured. Initial community development was relatively unpredictable. Larval recruitment patterns varied markedly from year to year and as a result, different patterns of initial community development were observed both within and between years. Instead of preparing the way for subsequent arrivals, most resident adults strongly inhibited the recruitment and growth of other species. Species varied in their ability to resist subsequent invasion as adults and in their ability to invade occupied substrate as larvae. After an unpredictable initial developmental phase, subsequent changes in species composition depended in part on the degree to which larvae were able to invade existing adult assemblages. This in turn depended on the identity of the resident adults and the identity of the invading larvae. As a result, the direction and rate of community development, dependent on the order of initial invasion and subsequent recruitment, were difficult to predict although an equilibrium number of 8-10 species/plate was often observed. Adult residence time was generally <1 year and the mortality and/or disappearance of these adults produced 20-60% free space on an approximately annual basis. This free space was usually occupied by recruits of a different species than the original occupant. The combined addition of species through larval recruitment and subtraction of species as a result of adult mortality produced dramatic changes in community structure each year. There is no reason to believe these changes will ever cease. We conclude that succession in the classical sense (Odum 1969) does not occur in this system because initial development was variable, residents impeded subsequent development instead of enhancing it, and there was no stable climax. There is good reason to believe similar processes occur in other temperate and subtropical fouling communities. We believe these communities are fundamentally different from terrestrial plant communities, where succession may occur, for 3 reasons: (1) the organisms do not alter the substrate they occupy, i.e., "prepare" it for later arrivals, (2) there is no possibility of "storing" dormant "seeds" of successional species. Colonization of free space is generally by animals which have a short-lived, even nonfeeding larvae, (3) most adults are extremely short-lived. An emerging paradigm of marine benthic community organization postulates the existence of competitive hierarchies in which 1 or a few species win in the absence of disturbances. The fouling community appears to lack such dominants.
20787437|Big ecological changes often involve regime shifts in which a critical threshold is crossed. Thresholds are often difficult to measure, and transgressions of thresholds come as surprises. If a critical threshold is approached gradually, however, there are early warnings of the impending regime shift. For example, in a one-dimensional ecosystem dynamics, autocorrelation approaches 1 from below, variance and skewness increase, and variance spectra shift to lower frequencies. Here we focus on variance, an indicator easily computed from monitoring data. There are two distinct sources of increased variance near a critical threshold. One is the amplification of small shocks that occurs as the square of the modulus of the leading eigenvalue (or leading pair of eigenvalues in the complex case) approaches 1 from below. This source, called "squealing," is well-studied. The second source of variance, called "flickering," involves brief excursions between attractors. Interacting regime shifts may muffle or magnify variance near critical thresholds. Whether muffling or magnification occurs, and the size of the effect, depend on the product of the feedback between the state variables times the correlation of these variables' responses to environmental shocks. If this product is positive, magnification of the variance will occur. If the product is negative, muffling or magnification can occur depending on the relative magnitudes of these and other effects. Therefore, monitoring programs should measure variates that have opposite responses to the critical transition. If the correlations to environmental shocks have the same sign, the variance of at least one variate will be magnified as the critical transition is approached. Simulation studies suggest that muffling may sometimes interfere with detection of early warning signals of regime shifts. However, more important effects of muffling and magnification may come from their effect on flickering, when random shocks trigger a state change in a system with low resilience. Muffling decreases the likelihood that a random shock will trigger a regime shift. Magnification has the opposite effect. Magnification is most likely when feedbacks are positive and state variables have positively correlated responses to environmental shocks. These results help delimit the conditions when regime shifts are more likely to cascade through complex systems.
27646132|Eighteen years of field observations and five summer field experiments in a coastal California river suggest that hydrologic regimes influence algal blooms and the impacts of fish on algae, cyanobacteria, invertebrates, and small vertebrates. In this Mediterranean climate, rainy winters precede the biologically active summer low-flow season. Cladophora glomerata, the filamentous green alga that dominates primary producer biomass during summer, reaches peak biomass during late spring or early summer. Cladophora blooms are larger if floods during the preceding winter attained or exceeded "bankfull discharge" (sufficient to mobilize much of the river bed, estimated at 120 m3/s). In 9 out of 12 summers preceded by large bed-scouring floods, the average peak height of attached Cladophora turfs equaled or exceeded 50 cm. In five out of six years when flows remained below bankfull, Cladophora biomass peaked at lower levels. Flood effects on algae were partially mediated through impacts on consumers in food webs. In three experiments that followed scouring winter floods, juvenile steelhead (Oncorhynchus mykiss) and roach (Lavinia (Hesperoleucas) symmetricus) suppressed certain insects and young-of-the-year fish fry, affecting persistence or accrual of algae positively or negatively, depending on the predator-specific vulnerabilities of primary consumers capable of suppressing algae during a given year. During two post-flood years, these grazers were more vulnerable to small predators (odonates and fish fry, which stocked steelhead always suppressed) than to experimentally manipulated, larger fish, which had adverse effects on algae in those years. During one post-flood year, all enclosed grazers capable of suppressing algae were consumed by steelhead, which therefore had positive effects on algae. During drought years, when no bed-scouring winter flows occurred, large armored caddisflies (Dicosmoecus gilvipes) were more abundant during the subsequent summer. In drought-year experiments, stocked fish had little or no influence on algal standing crops, which increased only when Dicosmoecus were removed from enclosures. Flood scour, by suppressing invulnerable grazers, set the stage for fish mediated effects on algae in this river food web. Whether these effects were positive or negative depended on the predator-specific vulnerabilities of primary consumers that dominated during a given summer.
10.2307/1942640|The subtidal region at Cape Banks, New South Wales, Australia, is characterized by large areas covered solely by encrusting coralline algae in association with large densities of invertebrate grazers. Orthogonal removals of these grazers: the sea urchin Centrostephanus rodgersii; the limpets Patelloida alticostata, P. mufria, and Cellana tramoserica; and the turbinids Australium tentiforme and Turbo torquata, were done at two sites and two times to investigate the interactions among these species and their effects on the algal community. These manipulations had large effects on both the algal and animal communities, although the type and intensity of these interactions altered at different temporal and spatial scales. Initially, the removal of urchins and/or all species of limpets resulted in a rapid increase in the amount of noncrustose algae in these areas. Removal of turbinids, however, had no significant effect. Where both limpets and urchins had been removed, the cover of foliose algae continued to increase quickly and was @?80-100% after 12 mo. In areas where only urchins were removed, the increase in the cover of algae was slower, and only approached 100% after 18-24 mo. Where only limpets had been removed, 3 mo after an initial increase in the cover of filamentous algae the cover declined to be only slightly more than in control areas. These results were similar at all sites and times. In one series of removals, the effects of some of the species of limpets were separated. In this case, the increase in the cover of algae was found to be fastest when only P. mufria was left (the urchins and other limpets removed), than when all limpets and urchins had been removed. Initially, the removal of the urchins generally resulted in a large increase in the recruitment and density of the limpets. Approximately 1 yr following the removal of the urchins,however, the density of adult and juvenile limpets of all species had declined to near zero. Removal of the larger species of limpets, P. alticostata and Cellana, also increased the rate of recruitment of the smaller species, P. mufria. Thus, these invertebrate grazers, especially the sea urchins, appeared to be necessary for the maintenance of the areas of crustose algae. Similarly, the sea urchins were found to be necessary for the continued presence of the limpets within these areas. The strong effects of the urchins on this community, and the application of the situation to theories concerning keystone species and facilitation, are discussed in relation to the important but more subtle effects of the limpets.
27646085|Marine benthic invertebrates living in dense, intraspecific aggregations are important community members because they provide structural habitat for other species. Here, we determined the mechanisms that facilitate gregarious larval settlement and promote group living. Using suspension-feeding oysters (Crassostrea gigas) residing in large assemblages ("reefs"), experiments were conducted under laboratory conditions that simulated critical aspects of natural estuarine habitats. Oyster larvae were attracted to the scent of their conspecific elders. In still-water trials, they moved downward and settled after contacting a waterborne, adult chemical cue. Yet, mortality of larvae placed in the adult pallial cavity was very high (mean of 91.3%). This seeming paradox of larval attraction to adult cannibals was resolved via laboratory flume (2 cm/s and 6 cm/s flows) experiments. Suspension-feeding activity did not significantly affect flow speeds or directions. Moreover, weak (mean of 1.65 mm/s) adult ciliary currents effectively entrained phytoplankton but rarely captured larvae. In fact, only a small percentage (4.6%) of settlers was cannibalized in flume trials, even when they passed within 1 mm of the inhalant opening, or "gape" (a narrow slit between two valves). Larvae cued by conspecifics potentially attach to any portion of the shell surface, but there is a low probability that they will land in or near the inhalant opening. On juvenile and adult oysters, for example, the mean ratio of gape to shell surface area was only 0.025. Furthermore, in surveys of juvenile/adult oysters at nine field sites (Hood Canal and eastern Olympic Peninsula, Washington, USA), the gape was 5.2% of the total plane surface area of the reef. Thus, an oyster larva settling onto a reef of suspension-feeding adults is unlikely to be cannibalized. Given this low mortality risk at settlement, future fitness payoffs (e.g., improved fertilization success) may drive the evolution of a gregarious settlement cue that promotes group living.
4539092|Pinnipeds are a diverse group of aquatic carnivores that exhibit wide variation in body size, milk composition, lactation strategies, and the length of maternal care. We used 12 pinniped life-history and ecological traits to test hypotheses concerning the influence of phylogeny, maternal body size, breeding substrate, and other factors on the evolution of lactation strategies. We used independent contrasts to account for phylogenetic effects on correlations between traits. Our findings indicate that the negative relationships between maternal mass and lactation length and between maternal mass and the percentage of time spent at sea by females during lactation are not recent adaptations, but likely a result of phylogenetic history and an evolutionary grade shift in lactation length, which occurred when the phocids diverged from the otariids. Differences in body size between the ancestral phocid and otariid impacted their foraging strategies and metabolic rates, which subsequently influenced lactation strategies. The fat-storage abilities of large phocids may have allowed them to exploit remote and patchy prey resources and thereby reduce time spent feeding during lactation. We also suggest that an early divergence in the mammary gland structure of phocids and otariids is a fundamental influence on pinniped lactation strategies. Although estimates are lacking for several key species, body size appears to have little adaptive influence on the lactation length of extant species. Instead, an abbreviated lactation period seems to be adaptive in minimizing the relative milk energy expended over lactation, although it may have initially evolved to reduce maternal overhead, especially in ancestral fasting phocids. Subsequently, a brief lactation in phocids was also selected through the effects of terrestrial predation, the instability of breeding on pack-ice, and the energy benefits of increasing milk energy output.
10.2307/1942544|The dynamics of zooplankton herbivores in Lake Valencia, Venezuela, were studied over a 5-yr interval. Lake Valencia is a large, warm-monomictic, eutrophic lake. Copepods were the dominant group; rotifers were more abundant than the cladocerans, which were not present in all years. Variation between years in herbivore biomass bore no statistical relationship to patterns in algal biomass. The average annual dry mass production of the herbivores was high (7.0 @mg@?L^-^1@?d^-^1), but less than expected given the high primary productivity of the lake. The annual ratios of production to biomass for individual species were well below the maxima expected for steady growth, and thus imply growth suppression. Feeding capacity of Chaoborus, the principal primary carnivore, exceeded herbivore production for 66% of the sampling dates. Annual overturn broke the coupling between predator and prey by causing extensive mortality in both herbivores and carnivores; herbivores recovered from this suppression more rapidly than carnivores. Herbivores followed three basic strategies for coexistence with their predators in Lake Valencia: (1) two Brachionus species were able to match predation losses by reproductive output; (2) the copepods, which experienced intense predation pressure as adults, were able to sustain the high losses because the adult stage was subsidized by recruitment from earlier, less vulnerable developmental stages; (3) Keratella and the cladocerans were opportunistic in that they became abundant only in response to a decline in the predator population. The opportunistic species were most abundant during the mixing season, which was the period of minimum abundance for Chaoborus. Predation strongly influenced the herbivore populations, but population data indicate that inadequate food resources also played a role. Growth suppression was the result of qualitative rather than quantitative inadequacy in the algal food base. The intensity of control by the two factors was strongly affected by abiotic factors associated with mixing events. Partial mixing provided brief respite from growth suppression for certain species (typically rotifers), but did not alter predation pressure. Annual overturn resulted in improvement of food quality, but because mortality of herbivores coincided with relaxation of predation, the herbivores were delayed in exploiting qualitative improvements in the food resources. Periods of simultaneous release from growth suppression and predation were infrequent and brief. Herbivores were thus controlled simultaneously by predation and quality of food resource.
23208477|Soil organic matter is a complex mixture of material with heterogeneous biological, physical, and chemical properties. Decomposition models represent this heterogeneity either as a set of discrete pools with different residence times or as a continuum of qualities. It is unclear though, whether these two different approaches yield comparable predictions of organic matter dynamics. Here, we compare predictions from these two different approaches and propose an intermediate approach to study organic matter decomposition based on concepts from continuous models implemented numerically. We found that the disagreement between discrete and continuous approaches can be considerable depending on the degree of nonlinearity of the model and simulation time. The two approaches can diverge substantially for predicting long-term processes in soils. Based on our alternative approach, which is a modification of the continuous quality theory, we explored the temporal patterns that emerge by treating substrate heterogeneity explicitly. The analysis suggests that the pattern of carbon mineralization over time is highly dependent on the degree and form of nonlinearity in the model, mostly expressed as differences in microbial growth and efficiency for different substrates. Moreover, short-term stabilization and destabilization mechanisms operating simultaneously result in long-term accumulation of carbon characterized by low decomposition rates, independent of the characteristics of the incoming litter. We show that representation of heterogeneity in the decomposition process can lead to substantial improvements in our understanding of carbon mineralization and its long-term stability in soils.
10.2307/1942393|We studied the advantages and disadvantages of Bank Swallow (Riparia riparia) coloniality in 1972 and 1973 by examining 54 colonies, ranging in size from 2 to 451 active nests, near Ann Arbor, Michigan USA. Four disadvantages were investigated: (1) increased competition for nest burrows and nest building materials, (2) increased competition for mates and matings, (3) increased possibilities of misdirected parental care because of either brood parasitism or the mixing up of unrelated young, and (4) increased transmission of ectoparasites. Physical interference in reproductive functions and the possibility of intraspecific killing of offspring were also considered. The intensity of the various forms of competition increased with increasing colony size, though not always directly. Flea infestation also increased with increasing colony size. Intraspecific brood parasitism was not observed, and parent Bank Swallows began discriminating between their own and unrelated offspring at the time when the young first began to mix. Three hypotheses to explain the maintenance of coloniality were tested: (1) shortage of suitable nesting habitats, (2) advantages associated with social foraging, and (3) reduced predation on adults, young, or eggs. Shortage of suitable habitat could not be demonstrated. Parents did not appear to feed in groups, and survivorship of nestlings during cold weather and weight of nestlings at 10 days of age both suggested that competition for food increased with increasing colony size. Although there was no relationship between colony size and amount of nocturnal predation, adult birds mobbed diurnal predators. Using a stuffed weasel, we studied such mobbing responses. Our data suggest that diurnal predators at larger colonies are (1) detected more quickly, (2) mobbed by greater numbers of birds, and (3) subjected to more vocal commotion than are predators at smaller colonies. Further, we demonstrated that mobbing is at least sometimes effective in deterring avian predators. We suggest that reduced predation on eggs and young, resulting from both group defense and @'selfish herd@' effects, is an important advantage of Bank Swallow coloniality.
10.2307/2937153|Tree ring chronologies from 24 mixed-conifer stands were used to reconstruct the long-term history of western spruce budworm (Choristoneura occidentalis) in northern New Mexico. Temporal and spatial patterns of budworm infestations (within-stand occurrences) and outbreaks (more-or-less synchronous infestations across many stands) were investigated to identify local-scale to regional-scale forest disturbance patterns. Nine regional-scale outbreaks were identified from 1690 to 1989. One ancient stand of Douglas-fir trees (Pseudotsuga menziesii) exceeding 700 yr in age revealed that budworms and overstory trees can coexist for extraordinary lengths of time. Using spectral analysis we found that the regional outbreak record contained important cyclical components with periods varying from @?20 to 33 yr. The statistically significant (P < .05) but variable periodicity of regional outbreaks suggests the forest-budworm dynamic is pseudoperiodic (i.e., a stable limit cycle or damped oscillator perturbed by noise). Duration of infestations within stands was @?11 yr and has not obviously changed in the 20th century; however, infestations tended to be more synchronous among stands in this century than during earlier centuries. Regional budworm activity was low from the mid-1920s to late 1930s and mid-1960s to late 1970s, and the most recent outbreak, beginning in the late 1970s, was unusually severe. These results, and contrasting infestation patterns in mountain ranges with different land use histories, generally support a hypothesis that human-induced changes in Southwestern forests have led to more widespread and intense budworm outbreaks in the late 20th century. Despite human-induced changes in the 20th century, climate variation also appears to have been important to budworm regimes in this century as well as in earlier times. Regional outbreaks in the 20th century tended to occur during years of increased spring precipitation, and decreased budworm activity coincided with decreased spring precipitation. No clear association with temperature was identified. Comparisons of regional outbreak history since AD 1600 with a reconstruction of spring precipitation from limber pine (Pinus flexilis) ring width chronologies also shows that periods of increased and decreased budworm activity coincided with wetter and drier periods, respectively. This finding contrasts with results from shorter time-scale studies conducted in northwestern U.S. and Canada (western spruce budworm) and eastern Canada (spruce budworm C. fumiferana), where low precipitation and/or warmer temperatures were generally associated with outbreaks. Different patterns of budworm population response to changing moisture regimes might be due to differences in regional forest-budworm systems, or to differences in the spatial and temporal scales of observation. We conclude that changes in forest structure in the southwestern U.S. may have shifted the spatial and temporal pattern of budworm outbreaks. The dynamic behavior and statistically significant association between multicentury, regional budworm and climate time series also suggest that complex budworm dynamics are driven by a combination of internal and external factors.
10.2307/2963513|This study links spatial and seasonal patterns of mortality of the hard clam, Mercenaria mercenaria (L.), in marine soft bottoms with the predation rates and habitat use of its main predator, the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus Rathbun. Patterns of predation on tethered juvenile clams exposed to the natural assemblage of predators were compared among different habitat types in fall and summer. Between-habitat patterns of predation on clams varied with season. In fall, predation on tethered clams was greater in subtidal sand bottoms and just inside the edge of intertidal salt marshes than in intertidal sand flats. In summer, predation on clams was similar in all habitats. Experiments conducted in field enclosures showed that: (a) individual crabs spent more time in the salt marsh habitat than in intertidal sand flats; (b) crab individuals placed in a sand bottom habitat had greater predation rates in high-density prey patches than in low-density patches; (c) individuals had greater predation rates in prey patches located just inside the edge of salt marshes than in intertidal sand flats, when prey density was held constant between the two habitats; (d) at intermediate and high crab densities predation mortality of clams was similar between vegetated and unvegetated habitats; (e) both individual crabs and groups of crabs consumed similar numbers of clams in the two habitat types when large predatory birds (mainly various species of terns, Sterna spp., herring gulls, Larus argentatus Coues, and ring-billed gulls, L. delawarensis Ord) were excluded from enclosures, but the crabs consumed more clams in the salt marsh than in the sand flat habitat in control enclosures where birds were not excluded. In the fall, when Herring and Ring-billed Gulls were abundant in the study area, preference by blue crabs for safer and more profitable habitats may explain the greater predation on clams in salt marshes than in intertidal sand flats. In the summer, when Herring and Ring-billed Gulls were rare and crab densities are 1.5-3 times greater than in the fall, competition with conspecifics may have caused crabs to disperse and feed in intertidal flats and may explain the general lack of differences in predation intensity among habitat types observed in the summer. Thus, patterns of predation and habitat use by blue crabs appeared to explain between-habitat and seasonal differences in predation mortality of clams. Focusing on the variation in the feeding rates of individual predators in response to external conditions can produce the mechanistic understanding of spatial and seasonal patterns of predation needed to understand and better predict the processes that structure benthic marine communities.
10.2307/2963473|We examined the importance of the epiphytic lichen, Ramalina menziesii, in a blue oak (Quercus douglasii) woodland of California, using a factorial experiment in which lichens were removed from tree canopies and the soil surface for 3-yr period. Each blue oak contained an average of 3.8 kg of lichen biomass, totaling 590 kg/ha for the entire woodland; oak leaf biomass was 958 kg/ha. Removal of lichens affected the interception of rainfall by the forest canopy and the deposition of water and nutrients in throughfall collected beneath the canopy. Trees with lichens had higher deposition of total N, organic N, Ca, Mg, Na, and Cl, and a lower deposition of SO
10.2307/2963491|In this paper, we investigate whether a stage-structured population model can explain major features of dynamics of the herbivores Daphnia galeata and Bosmina longirostris reared under controlled laboratory conditions. Model parameters are determined from independent individual-based information gleaned from the literature on feeding, growth, reproduction, and survivorship of these herbivores. We tested predictions of our model against published observations on the dynamics of laboratory populations. The feeding protocols used in these experiments present a highly dynamic food environment that rigorously challenges the ability of stage-structured models to predict the dynamics of populations as they approach equilibrium. For both herbivore species, the models correctly predict feasible equilibria and some features of their dynamics (e.g., periodicity, cycle amplitude, demography, and fecundity) for experiments in which the species were raised in isolation and food transfers were relatively frequent (at least one transfer per instar). With frequent food transfers, the model also correctly predicts coexistence of the herbivores during competition experiments and suggests a novel mechanism for coexistence. The model fails to predict correctly single-species dynamics and the outcome of competition in experiments where food transfers were infrequent and utilization of internal reserves by individuals in the populations must have been high.
10.2307/1942168|Spiders were the most important entomophagous predators of a ^1^3^7Cs-tagged Liriodendron tulipifera decomposer community. Radioisotope techniques were used to quantify the bioenergetic impact of spider predation on the forest-floor detritus food web. Temperature dependent ^1^3^7Cs elimination by spiders and ^1^3^7Cs concentrations in field animals were used in intake-loss equations to estimate ingestion by the spider population. Radiocesium body burdens fluctuated seasonally in response to litterfall and seasonal differences in temperature and precipitation. Ingestion rates, assimilation efficiencies, and respiratory energy losses were used to estimate gross and net production of the forest spider population. Annual mean population density of spiders was 126 individuals/m^2. Population-density peaks occurred in fall, early winter, and summer. Mean biomass for the year was 43 mg dry wt/m^2; maxima occurred in early winter and spring. Spiders 1-10 mg in size accounted for 59% of total biomass; spiders <1 mg or > 10 mg comprised the remaining 24% and 17% of the population, respectively. Predicted values for ingestion, assimilation, and respiration indicate that forest-floor spiders were active throughout a temperature range of 5@?-20@?C, with 13.3@? the optimum for net production by spiders of all size classes. Spiders killed an equivalent of 2.08 kcal prey tissue/m^2 per year and ingested 1.68 kcal/m^2 per year. Respiratory energy loss equaled 1.23 kcal/m^2 per year. Trophic level efficiencies calculated from seasonal energy-budget data were: (1) intake efficiency (prey killed/ingestion), 73-86%; (2) assimilation efficiency (assimilation/ingestion), 90-99%; (3) respiration efficiency (respiration/ingestion), 58-96%; (4) respiration/assimilation, 63-106%; (5) ecological growth efficiency (net production/ingestion), -5-34%; and (6) tissue-growth efficiency (net production/assimilation), -4-37%.
10.2307/1942440|All vegetation on Watershed 2 of the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest was cut during November and December of 1965, and vegetation regrowth was inhibited for two years by periodic application of herbicides. Annual stream-flow was increased 33 cm or 39% the first year and 27 cm or 28% the second year above the values expected if the watershed were not deforested. Large increases in streamwater concentration were observed for all major ions, except NH"4+, SO"4 = and HCO"3^-, approximately five months after the deforestation. Nitrate concentrations were 41-fold higher than the undisturbed condition the first year and 56-fold higher the second. The nitrate concentration in stream water has exceeded, almost continuously, the health levels recommended for drinking water. Sulfate was the only major ion in stream water that decreased in concentration after deforestation. An inverse relationship between sulfate and nitrate concentrations in stream water was observed in both undisturbed and deforested situations. Average streamwater concentrations increased by 417% for Ca^+^+, 408% for Mg^+^+, 1558% for K^+ and 177% for Na^+ during the two years subsequent to deforestation. Budgetary net losses from Watershed 2 in kg/ha-yr were about 142 for NO"3-N, 90 for Ca^+^+, 36 for K^+, 32 for SiO"2-Si, 24 for Al^+^+^+, 18 for Mg^+^+, 17 for Na^+, 4 for Cl^-, and 0 for SO"4-S during 1967-68; whereas for an adjacent, undisturbed watershed (W6) net losses were 9.2 for Ca^+^+, 1.6 for K^+, 17 for SiO"2-Si, 3.1 for A1^+^+^+, 2.6 for Mg^+^+, 7.0 for Na^+, 0.1 for C1^-, and 3.3 for SO"4-S. Input of nitrate-nitrogen in precipitation normally exceeds the output in drainage water in the undisturbed ecosystems, and ammonium-nitrogen likewise accumulates in both the undisturbed and deforested ecosystems. Total gross export of dissolved solids, exclusive of organic matter, was about 75 metric tons/km^2 in 1966-67, and 97 metric tons/km^2 in 1967-68, or about 6 to 8 times greater than would be expected for an undisturbed watershed. The greatly increased export of dissolved nutrients from the deforested ecosystem was due to an alteration of the nitrogen cycle within the ecosystem. The drainage streams tributary to Hubbard Brook are normally acid, and as a result of deforestation the hydrogen ion content increased by 5-fold (from pH 5.1 to 4.3). Streamwater temperatures after deforestation were higher than the undisturbed condition during both summer and winter. Also in contrast to the relatively constant temperature in the undisturbed streams, streamwater temperature after deforestation fluctuated 3-4@?C during the day in summer. Electrical conductivity increased about 6-fold in the stream water after deforestation and was much more variable. Increased streamwater turbidity as a result of the deforestation was negligible, however the particulate matter output was increased about 4-fold. Whereas the particulate matter is normally 50% inorganic materials, after deforestation preliminary estimates indicate that the proportion of inorganic materials increased to 76% of the total particulates. Supersaturation of dissolved oxygen in stream water from the experimental watersheds is common in all seasons except summer when stream discharge is low. The percent saturation is dependent upon flow rate in the streams. Sulfate, hydrogen ion and nitrate are major constituents in the precipitation. It is suggested that the increase in average nitrate concentration in precipitation compared to data from 1955-56,as well as the consistent annual increase observed from 1964 to 1968, may be some measure of a general increase in air pollution.
10.2307/1942517|Niche relationships between the desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus crooki) and Coues white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus couesi) were studied in the San Cayetano and Dos Cabezas mountains in southeastern Arizona from September 1969 to March 1972. Walk transects were established on the study areas on which deer were observed. Altitude, slope exposure, and habitat selection were used to describe distributional patterns of the two species. Food habits were studied by analyzing fecal samples microscopically for epidermal fragments of important forage plants. Behavioral interaction between mule deer and white-tailed deer, browse utilization on Cercocarpos breviflorus, and recruitment were also investigated. Spatial distributions according to altitude and slope exposure indicated that a 'buffer' zone existed between populations of mule deer and white-tailed deer in the San Cayetano Mountains. Mule deer were associated with fewer vegetational types than white-tailed deer on this study area; Prosopis juliflora and Fouquieria splendens were indicative of mule deer habitat. White-tailed deer utilized a greater diversity of vegetational types in the San Cayetanos and did not appear to be associated with any particular plant species, although Quercus oblongifolia, Dasylirion wheeleri, and Eysenharditia polystachya were important. The most important forage plants for white-tailed deer in the San Cayetano Mountains were E. polystachya, Eriogonum wrightii, Krameria parvifolia, and Fendlera rupicola. Similarly, the primary food items of mule deer were E. polystachya, Calliandra eriophylla, and K. parvifolia. There was much overlap in food preferences of mule deer and white-tailed deer (55% to 67% seasonally) particularly on E. polystachya and K. parvifolia. Populations of mule deer and white-tailed deer were sympatric in the Dos Cabezas Mountains; the coefficients of association were highly positive. There was also a great similarity in habitat selection between the two species. Both species were associated with those habitat types dominated by Quercus emoryi, Juniperus deppeana, C. breviflorus, Quercus gambelii, Nolina microcarpa, Symphoricarpos ereophilus, and/or Bouteloua spp. White-tailed deer displayed a greater preference for the Quercus Symphoricarpos and Quercus-Cercocarpus habitat types than mule deer, whereas Juniperus-Cercocarpus habitats were preferred more by mule deer. Food habits of mule deer and white-tailed deer were very similar: all plant species important to white-tailed deer were also important to mule deer. The most frequent forage plants, in order of importance, were C. breviflorus, E. wrightii, J. deppeana, and Q. gambelii. Recruitment to the population was higher for mule deer than for white-tailed deer. Utilization of the annual leader growth on the key browse plant (C. breviflorus) was extremely high. Mule deer were dominant over white-tailed deer in all behavioral interactions observed during the study. In half of these instances, mule deer displayed aggressive threat in asserting their dominance; the rest were of a passive nature. The low coefficients of distributional overlap and high indices of overlap in food habits for the San Cayetano Mountains lead us to conclude that mule deer and white-tailed deer competitively exclude each other. The high overlap in spatial distributions, habitat selection, and food habits coupled with the high utilization of the key forage plant (C. breviflorus) in the Dos Cabezas Mountains during the winter months lead to the conclusion that direct competition between the two species probably was occurring during that time. This direct competition can be explained on the basis that it is a temporary phenomenon. It is hypothesized that the factors that have brought mule deer and white-tailed deer into direct competition in this area have been vegetational changes, livestock overgrazing and/or range fire suppression.
3100013|Conventional plant dispersal classification systems use simple binary assignment schemes classifying each species as either being dispersed by means of a certain dispersal vector or not. However, because the dispersal potential ranges continually, this dichotomy appears to be rather artificial, and the existing systems may not be very useful for addressing ecological questions. To quantify gradual differences in the dispersal potential, we developed a system assessing wind dispersal potentials. Wind dispersal potential is defined as the proportion of diaspores exceeding a predefined reference distance under certain weather conditions, to acknowledge that wind dispersal potential is scale and context specific. The system is based on an independently validated simulation model of wind dispersal that was used to compute the proportion of diaspores exceeding predefined reference distances. On an ordinal scale, the proposed system allows one to assess the wind dispersal potential of any plant species with known falling velocity and release height of its diaspores without further computing. The system mainly relies on two traits characterizing the plant species (falling velocity and initial release height of the diaspores) and two context-specific parameters (reference distance and weather conditions). We examined how wind dispersal potential is sensitive to these factors and found that it was most sensitive to weather conditions and falling velocity. The species-specific traits interact with reference distance: the greater the reference distance and the lower the release height in relation, the more relevant a low falling velocity becomes for achieving a high wind dispersal potential. We subsequently applied the system to 335 plant species and found a considerable variation in their wind dispersal potentials. Many species commonly assumed to be wind dispersed exhibit only a low wind dispersal potential. Comparing the wind dispersal potentials to the morphology of the diaspores also reveals a considerable variation of the wind dispersal potential of species classified as the same morphological type. The results show that the conventional assignment of a plant species to a certain mode of dispersal, which is primarily based on the morphology of its diaspores, will often result in misleading conclusions regarding the dispersal potential of the respective species.
4539064|The decline in aboveground wood production after canopy closure in even-aged forest stands is a common pattern in forests, but clear evidence for the mechanism causing the decline is lacking. The problem is fundamental to forest biology, commercial forestry (the decline sets the rotation age), and to carbon storage in forests. We tested three hypotheses about mechanisms causing the decline in wood growth by quantifying the complete carbon budget of developing stands for over six years (a full rotation) in replicated plantations of Eucalyptus saligna near Pepeekeo, Hawaii. Our first hypothesis was that gross primary production (GPP) does not decline with stand age, and that the decline in wood growth results from a shift in partitioning from wood production to respiration (as tree biomass accumulates), total belowground carbon allocation (as a result of declining soil nutrient supply), or some combination of these or other sinks. An alternative hypothesis was that GPP declines with stand age and that the decline in aboveground wood production is proportional to the decline in GPP. A decline in GPP could be driven by reduced canopy leaf area and photosynthetic capacity resulting from increasing nutrient limitation, increased abrasion between tree canopies, lower turgor pressure to drive foliar expansion, or hydraulic limitation of water flux as tree height increases. A final hypothesis was a combination of the first two: GPP declines, but the decline in wood production is disproportionately larger because partitioning shifts as well. We measured the entire annual carbon budget (aboveground production and respiration, total belowground carbon allocation [TBCA], and GPP) from 0.5 years after seedling planting through 6 1/2 years (when trees were ~25 m tall). The replicated plots included two densities of trees (1111 trees/ha and 10 000 trees/ha) to vary the ratio of canopy leaf mass to wood mass in the individual trees, and three fertilization regimes (minimal, intensive, and minimal followed by intensive after three years) to assess the role of nutrition in shaping the decline in GPP and aboveground wood production. The forest closed its canopy in 1-2 years, with peak aboveground wood production, coinciding with canopy closure, of
27646046|We describe a discrete-time, stochastic population model with density dependence, environmental-type process noise, and lognormal observation or sampling error. The model, a stochastic version of the Gompertz model, can be transformed into a linear Gaussian state-space model (Kalman filter) for convenient fitting to time series data. The model has a multivariate normal likelihood function and is simple enough for a variety of uses ranging from theoretical study of parameter estimation issues to routine data analyses in population monitoring. A special case of the model is the discrete-time, stochastic exponential growth model (density independence) with environmental-type process error and lognormal observation error. We describe two methods for estimating parameters in the Gompertz state-space model, and we compare the statistical qualities of the methods with computer simulations. The methods are maximum likelihood based on observations and restricted maximum likelihood based on first differences. Both offer adequate statistical properties. Because the likelihood function is identical to a repeated-measures analysis of variance model with a random time effect, parameter estimates can be calculated using PROC MIXED of SAS. We use the model to analyze a data set from the Breeding Bird Survey. The fitted model suggests that over 70% of the noise in the population's growth rate is due to observation error. The model describes the autocovariance properties of the data especially well. While observation error and process noise variance parameters can both be estimated from one time series, multimodal likelihood functions can and do occur. For data arising from the model, the statistically consistent parameter estimates do not necessarily correspond to the global maximum in the likelihood function. Maximization, simulation, and bootstrapping programs must accommodate the phenomenon of multimodal likelihood functions to produce statistically valid results.
10.2307/1943025|Techniques are developed for the analysis of community organization and bench tested on a set of simple model systems with known structure (i.e., with and without guild structure, with varying degrees of resource partitioning, with and without @'core@' resources). Proportional utilization coefficients, p"i, are positively correlated with the abundance of resources, whereas electivities, e"i, correlate negatively with resource abundance. The geometric mean of p"i and e"i, is a superior measure of utilization, more nearly independent of biases associated with resource availability than either of its components, and performs better in bench tests. Organization in observed patterns of resource utilization by four desert lizard and four tropical freshwater fish assemblages is critically evaluated via comparisons with results from two randomization algorithms. Randomizations follow a Monte Carlo technique whereby the dimensions of the original m @? n resource matrix are preserved during hundreds of independent runs. The first @'scrambled zeros@' algorithm rearranges observed values for resource utilization by each consumer and retains consumer dietary niche breadths, but destroys guild structure (zero structure) of observed matrices. The second algorithm (@'conserved zeros@') also retains observed consumer diet breadths, but only rearranges observed resource utilization coefficients among the particular resources actually used by consumers, thus retaining observed guild structure (i.e., matrix zero structure). By plotting average dietary overlap against ordered niche neighbors, we evaluate (1) relative guild structure using the randomization algorithm that scrambles observed matrix zero structure, and (2) consumer resource segregation within guilds using the algorithm that conserves zero structure. Statistically significant guild structure is evident to varying degrees in all but one low-diversity fish assemblage. All four tropical fish assemblages reveal significant partitioning of food resources during both the wet and dry seasons, particularly among intermediate to distant neighbors. The most species-rich assemblage exhibits extremely high levels of resource segregation during the period of desiccation of aquatic habitat and increased fish densities. Diverse Australian desert lizard assemblages show significant partitioning of microhabitats among ecologically similar species, even though only 15 microhabitat categories are recognized. Analysis of dietary resource matrices based on only 19 prey resources shows that Australian lizards are piled up on certain prey types, forming functional dietary guilds of lizards that eat termites, ants, other lizards, etc. However, no dietary segregation is evident when only 19 prey resource states are recognized. In contrast, when the analysis is redone on more refined resource matrices based on more than 200 prey types, guild structure essentially disappears but niche segregation becomes evident. In the less diverse Kalahari desert, lizard assemblages are more variable and do not appear to be as tightly organized. Patterns of resource utilization in several of these natural vertebrate assemblages are, however, sufficiently organized to suggest broad effects of internal biotic factors, such as ecological constraints of functional morphology and physiology (leading to guild structure), and possibly interspecific competition.
10.2307/2657159|Studies on the west coast of North America suggest that nearshore oceanographic conditions can have important effects on rocky intertidal community structure and dynamics. Specifically, upwelling-dependent processes in coastal waters can affect both top-down and bottom-up processes on adjacent rocky shores. As a first step in testing the prediction that similar linkages occur elsewhere, we investigated the effects and rates of predation, grazing, and recruitment on rocky intertidal community dynamics at upwelling and non-upwelling sites on the South Island of New Zealand. Comparative-experimental studies were done at each of two sites on both the east and west coasts of the South Island. We quantified benthic community structure, maximal wave force, nearshore sea-surface temperature, air temperature at low tide, nutrient concentrations, survival of mussels, rates and effects of predation, rates and effects of limpet grazing, recruitment of mussels and barnacles, and RNA:DNA ratios (a growth index) of mussels. Overall, zonation patterns were similar on the upper shore on both coasts: barnacles (Chamaesipho columna) dominated the high zone, and mussels (Mytilus galloprovincialis) the middle zone. In the low zone, however, community structure differed markedly between coasts. East-coast low-zone communities were dominated by mussels with a moderate canopy of kelp, primarily Durvillea spp., while mussels were largely absent from westcoast low zones. Food webs were similar on the different coasts and included predaceous whelks, sea stars, oystercatchers, and herbivorous limpets. Field experiments showed that only sea stars and limpets had strong effects at west-coast sites, and only limpets had strong effects at east-coast sites. The sea star Stichaster australis, previously identified as a keystone species on the west coast of the North Island, was common and important on the west coast of the South Island but was absent from the east coast. Physical conditions (wave forces, low-tide air temperature) were comparable on the two coasts, suggesting that other factors caused the differences in low-zone community structure. Experiments and observations indicated that predation, grazing, prey recruitment, and mussel growth were greater on the west than on the east coast. While some between-coast contrasts in community dynamics could emanate from differences in species composition (e.g., the absence of S. australis from the east coast), the higher west-coast rates of most of the ecological processes studied suggest that between-coast differences may also depend on other factors. Among the alternatives, a difference in near-shore oceanographic conditions on the opposite coasts of the South Island seems most likely. Prior oceanographic research, and our onshore measurements of sea-surface temperature and nutrients indicate that summer upwelling may be relatively frequent on the west coast and rare on the east coast. While detailed oceanographic studies synchronized with benthic studies in nearshore coastal environments are needed to evaluate this hypothesis, present evidence is consistent with the view that rocky intertidal community structure and dynamics vary with large-scale oceanographic conditions in nearshore coastal environments around New Zealand.
10.2307/3100096|We artificially invaded a set of small islands with the large lizard Leiocephalus carinatus to determine effects on food-web elements including an intermediate predator, the lizard Anolis sagrei; the latter was previously found to have major, mostly direct effects on web spiders, as well as detectable indirect effects on aerial arthropods (including parasitoids) and leaf damage. In addition to these food-web elements, we monitored ground-surface arthropods; they are expected to be affected directly, as well as indirectly via A. sagrei, by L. carinatus. Five islands were randomly selected for invasion while six others served as controls. In addition, four islands without A. sagrei were monitored to determine the natural state of the sagrei-free food web. We also monitored a variety of A. sagrei's traits, from behavioral through physiological and demographic to morphological, to elucidate the mechanisms whereby L. carinatus might affect the smaller lizard and to evaluate trait-mediated as well as density-mediated effects. Comparison of unmanipulated islands with and without A. sagrei showed that A. sagrei appeared to be affecting web-spider density and diversity, numbers of small aerial arthropods, number of large ground-surface arthropods, and two types of leaf damage, scars and mines. All effects were negative save one: Small aerial arthropods were more abundant with A. sagrei; this variable and parasitoid abundance were negatively related to web-spider density, implicating an indirect effect pathway from A. sagrei via web spiders. Introduction of L. carinatus had major and immediate effects on A. sagrei density and perch height; effects on perch diameter, percentage hatchlings, and the width of the body-size distribution followed over time. Behavioral shifts in habitat use continued to the end of the experiment, after changes in population density had mostly leveled off. Adult-male body condition became poorer after introduction of L. carinatus. Among islands, percentage use of the ground was correlated negatively with percentage vegetated area of the island and positively with premanipulation relative hindlimb length. We hypothesize that longer-legged individuals do better on the ground because they are faster there. Conditional evidence for an increase in adult-male relative hindlimb length suggested that, when the ground-inhabiting L. carinatus was introduced, such individuals were differentially able to escape predation. Introduction of L. carinatus significantly reversed A. sagrei's effect on number of species and density of web spiders but had no other major effects on lower level food-web elements. Thus, a relatively short-chained (two links) effect, with a relatively strong second link (A. sagrei on spiders), showed the greatest indirect effect of the manipulation. Another potentially strong indirect effect, that on large ground-surface arthropods, did not occur, possibly because of compensatory (direct) predation by L. carinatus. Thus presence of omnivory may also be relevant to whether reversal of effects occurs. Although most A. sagrei effects were not reversed in the time available for the experiment, this may be typical, as natural L. carinatus colonizations can dwindle away to extinction over about the same time span, producing at best only short-term indirect effects. Population-density estimates from other sites and comparisons to other experimental studies suggest that, in general, predators on Anolis may have erratic effects in space and time.
40385215|Climate change will modify ecosystems, but a dearth of long-term data sets on critical ecological factors makes prediction of mechanistic pathways and scope for ecological changes difficult. Using 14-18 year time series of phytoplankton abundance and mussel recruitment at up to 10 sites along 320 km of coast in a rocky intertidal ecosystem, we examined the influence of climatic variation at 3-7 year (El Nio-Southern Oscillation [ENSO]), 7-10 year (North Pacific Gyre Oscillation [NPGO]), and 20+ year (Pacific Decadal Oscillation [PDO]) timescales. Phytoplankton and mussel recruitment revealed order-of-magnitude increases and seasonal shifts in the 2000s compared to 1989-1999, but seasonal shifts were in opposite directions with phytoplankton blooms occurring earlier and recruitment occurring later in the year. The NPGO had the strongest relationships with both phytoplankton and recruitment, while relationships between these factors and ENSO and PDO were weak. Increases were associated with cooler ocean temperature and intensification in the ocean gyre-scale circulation reflected in a stronger North Pacific Current (NPC). Phytoplankton abundance and mussel recruitment were positively correlated, suggesting that increases in larval food may have driven the changes in mussel recruitment. With our prior demonstration that mussel growth rate is sensitive to phytoplankton concentration, these results suggest an important effect of bottom-up forcing on the dynamics of coastal mussel populations. We conclude that central supply-side ecological processes in coastal ecosystems are sensitive to long-term ocean basin-scale oceanographic and atmospheric fluctuation. Despite these changes, intertidal community dynamics have changed only in relatively subtle ways, suggesting a role for local ecological interactions in dampening the effects of dominant modes of climate forcings in coastal ecosystems.
10.2307/1942555|The population dynamics of five species of foliaceous corals (Agaricia agaricites forma purpurea, A. lamarcki, Leptoseris cucullata, Montastrea annularis, and Porites astreoides) was followed on Jamaican reefs using annual photographic censuses. Overall, population cover, size frequencies, and number of colonies were stable over the monitored period from 1977 to 1980. However, individual colonies were in turmoil: of the original 883 colonies, 315 were killed outright and 499 suffered partial colony mortality (injury) at least once during the 3 yr. Partial mortality generated an additional 189 colonies by fission, while larval recruitment added another 201, and fusion subtracted 40 colonies. The net result was a decrease of <10% in number of colonies. There was considerable variation among years and sites in measured life history parameters, as well as striking differences between species. The most stable populations were M. annularis and A. lamarcki, followed by P. astreoides, A. agaricites, and L. cucullata. Rates of partial- and whole-colony mortality were strongly dependent on colony size for all species. Typically, small colonies either were unharmed, or were killed outright, while most large colonies survived but were injured each year, often by extensive amounts. The amount of tissue lost from a population through injuries was usually much greater than through the death of whole colonies, even in a year which included a major winter storm. Frequently, large corals were split asunder by partial mortality to produce several daughter colonies, which presumably were of identical genotype. Therefore counts of physically separate colonies exceeded the number of genetically distinct individuals (genets), by at least 20%. Individual genets, measured as the lateral extent of known daughter colonies, were frequently up to 5 m across, and for M. annularis and A. lamarcki were certainly several centuries old. Colony extension rates measured in situ were very weakly dependent on depth from -10 to -55 m, and were independent of colony size. Small colonies showed much faster relative changes in area, although even the largest corals continued to grow if they avoided major injuries. Within a size-class, the fates of colonies were diverse because of differential rates of growth and shrinkage, so that size was a very poor indicator of age. Differences in the life history and @'mobility@' between species are reflected in the taxonomic and morphological composition of coral communities over the reef. Shallow-water assemblages of foliaceous corals are composed of more dynamic, delicately built species, while many deeper water communities are dominated by slower growing, robust species. Ironically, disturbance on coral reefs often seems to favor the organisms most vulnerable to damage.
4539047|We examined the role of population density in host selection behavior of an eruptive insect herbivore, the spruce beetle Dendroctonus rufipennis. We conducted field and laboratory experiments on spruce beetles from 29 endemic and eruptive populations in Alaska and Utah, USA, and Yukon, Canada. Beetles from both population phases colonized trees that had been felled to remove host defenses. However, only beetles from eruptive populations colonized defended, healthy trees. A series of laboratory assays using host-based media amended with varying concentrations of phytochemicals identified several factors affecting population-dependent responses to hosts. First, beetles were repelled by high concentrations of the predominant spruce monoterpene, alpha-pinene, but intermediate concentrations elicited entry and gallery construction. Second, heritability assays suggested high genetic variance of host selection behavior within populations, and between-population differences persisted following rearing in a common environment. Third, beetles from eruptive populations were less likely to enter medium amended with phytochemicals and constructed shorter galleries, which disagreed with our prediction and seemingly contradicted the field observations. However, fourth, beetle avoidance of high concentrations of alpha-pinene decreased with the addition of other beetles, and this effect was more pronounced among beetles from eruptive populations than among those from endemic populations. This interaction broadened the host range of eruptive beetles. We propose that such density-dependent behaviors can maintain heterogeneity among population phases and contribute to positive feedback in herbivore population dynamics. A conceptual model suggests how heritable and environmentally induced variation in host selection behavior can affect bimodal equilibria and numerical thresholds in eruptive species.
27646110|Sexual segregation is the behavior in which animals of different sex in a species live in separate groups outside the mating season. Recently a new concept, namely, the "activity-budget hypothesis," has claimed to be the ultimate explanation of this behavior. The new hypothesis explains not only sexual segregation, but also segregation between animals of different size within sex (i.e., social segregation). The hypothesis states that the activity patterns of animals will differ when big differences in body mass exist between them, because of the associated difficulties of the synchronization in behavior making it costly to form groups, leading to segregation by size. Here we tested the assumptions and predictions of the activity-budget hypothesis using 40 Soay sheep (Ovis aries) as the model species in a 2.3-ha experimental arena. Sheep were divided into treatment groups to test the effect of sex, body mass, and food supplementation in their activity budgets, behavioral synchronization, diet composition, intake, food digestibility, and spatial segregation. Our animals segregated by sex but not by size, and food supplementation did not affect the spatial distribution of any sex, which is all against the predictions of the hypothesis. We also found sexual differences in dry-matter digestibility independent of body mass, which questions the Jarman-Bell principle at the intra-specific level, which is the foundation for some other hypotheses of sexual segregation. Increasing behavioral synchronization led to segregation, but at the same time forming groups facilitates synchronization, so it is unclear which (i.e., synchronization or segregation) is the cause and which the consequence. Our results do not support the activity-budget hypothesis and clearly indicate that there is no strong association between behavioral synchronization and segregation.
10.2307/3100047|We examined the energy, nutrient, time, and habitat consequences of diet choice by a generalist herbivore, the hispid cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus) on the Texas coastal prairie. Benefit-cost and linear programming models were developed and used to test several specific hypotheses about diet choice, foraging strategy, and habitat use by cotton rats. Within cotton rat habitat, there were significant differences among both seasons and habitat patches in the abundance and biomass of foods available. Monocot patches typically were higher in standing crops of energy and nutrients than were either dicot or mixed patches. Relative to available biomass and nutrients in dicot foods, this cotton rat habitat was both spatially and temporally heterogeneous and dynamic. Although the abundance of dicot foods in a habitat patch did influence costs of foraging time, time costs of cotton rats foraging for suitable foods did not decrease when standing crops of energy and nutrients in these habitats increased. Higher requirements for energy and nutrients needed for lactation by reproductive cotton rats resulted in higher foraging costs than for nonreproductive female rats. A mixed diet incorporating both monocot and dicot foods was nutritionally superior to either a monocot-only diet or a dicot-only diet. A diet of only monocots would meet minimum daily energy requirements and would not exceed either maximum daily digestive capacity or maximum daily foraging time, but it would not meet minimum daily requirements for protein and phosphorus during reproduction. Conversely, a diet of only dicots would meet nutrient requirements for reproduction but would exceed maximum daily foraging time. Mixing of monocot and dicot plant parts in the diet met both net energy and nutritional requirements, and increased foraging time, as compared to a diet of only monocots. Diets of cotton rats foraging to maximize net energy intake each season differed from the observed diets. Likewise, diets of cotton rats foraging to minimize total daily foraging time differed from the observed diets. Thus, we conclude that reproductive females of this generalist herbivore neither maximized their energy nor minimized their time, but rather, consumed a mixed diet to balance intake of requisite nutrients. Accordingly, a diet choice that included a mixture of monocot and dicot foods was most efficient when foraging occurred in a habitat having a mixture of monocot and dicot plants. Mixed patches provided higher energy and nutrient benefits to foraging cotton rats than did either monocot or dicot patches. Finally, we observed that reproductive female cotton rats concentrated their activities in mixed-patch habitats.
4539079|Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) is probably the most popular ordination method in community ecology. However, it is only a heuristic approximation to maximum-likelihood estimated canonical Gaussian ordination (CGO), which is the "ideal" method. When proposed in the mid-1980s, CCA held two advantages over CGO: it was computationally cheaper, and its algorithm was not complex. However, an exponential increase in computing speed over the last two decades has meant that computation cost is no longer such a compelling advantage. The computational complexity of CGO has always been its major difficulty, even though it is statistically more sound and simpler to understand than CCA. For these reasons, no general computational framework or software has appeared until now. This article proposes a new class of statistical regression models called quadratic reduced-rank vector generalized linear models (QRR-VGLMs) for maximum-likelihood estimated CGO. This is achieved by extending a recently developed class of statistical models called RR-VGLMs. The extension is named QRR-VGLMs because of the addition of a quadratic form to each linear predictor, with the consequence that bell-shaped responses can be modeled as functions of latent environmental variables or gradients. QRR-VGLMs have several major positive features; for example, their framework is unifying and broad, so that canonical Gaussian ordination can potentially be performed on a wide range of data types. The two most important special cases of CGO in ecology, multispecies presence/absence and Poisson abundance data, are considered in this article. The methodology is illustrated with a real data set using a software implementation written by the author in the S statistical language. The code, called the VGAM package in R, is object-oriented and free, and it allows QRR-VGLMs to be fitted to moderate-sized data sets conforming reasonably closely to the Gaussian model.
10.2307/1942461|To determine the effect of lizards on web-spider populations, we conducted an 18-mo field experiment in the Bahamas. Densities of individuals of each common spider species were about three times as high in lizard-removal enclosures as in control enclosures with lizards or in unenclosed plots with lizards; spider densities in control enclosures and unenclosed plots were nearly identical. In the most common spider species, Metepeira datona, lizards reduced juvenile and adult abundance, as well as adult female survivorship and prey consumption. Numbers of spider species were higher where lizards were removed than where they were present; hence, lizards did not promote spider species coexistence in this system. Numbers and biomasses of aerial insects caught in sticky traps were higher in lizard-removal enclosures than in controls; hence, higher spider predation on insects where lizards had been removed did not completely compensate for the lack of lizards. Comparisons between control enclosures and unenclosed plots revealed that the enclosures reduced insect numbers and biomasses. This study and others have demonstrated that lizards play a major role in structuring web-spider communities in the West Indies. Several lines of evidence indicate that predation is the major interaction between lizards and spiders, although some evidence for competition also exists.
27646063|Larvae of the California newt (Taricha torosa) exhibit striking predator-avoidance behavior, escaping to refuges in response to a chemical cue from cannibalistic adults. In laboratory flow-tank experiments, stream water collected near free-ranging adults induced hiding responses in 100% of the larvae tested. Solutions prepared by bathing adults (in field and laboratory) also evoked strong hiding behaviors. Insensitive to adult feeding status (fed or starved), and clearly not an excretory product, the chemical cue was released from adult skin (i.e., in swabs of adult backs, sides, and bellies). Tetrodotoxin (TTX) was found in skin swabs of adults and in bathwater at 1  10-7 mol/L using reversed-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). Concentrations of 1  10-7 to 1  10-9 mol/L TTX standard, and equivalent dilutions of bathwater, triggered hiding behaviors in larvae, with no subsequent sublethal toxicity. The presence of TTX-sensitive cells within larval olfactory epithelium was confirmed by behavioral experiments and electrophysiological recordings. In contrast, larvae did not hide in response to two other, structurally mimetic compounds (saxitoxin and -conotoxin GIIIB). Ontogenetically, larval behavioral responses to TTX and bathwater were strongest during weeks 35, diminishing to nil during week 7. No longer susceptible to adult cannibalism, larval indifference to the cue coincided with their ability to climb out of water and onto land. Thus, newt larvae escape cannibalism by detecting a poison (TTX) well known as a chemical defense for conspecific adults. Eliciting a behavioral response in one case and inhibiting neural activity in the other, this compound results in opposing physiological effects, with avoiding predation as the common goal. Accordingly, TTX joins a select group of keystone molecules, each having critical, but different, ecological consequences at multiple trophic levels. The unique combination of bioactive properties makes a compelling case for asymmetrical selection as a force driving the evolution of adultlarval trophic interactions.
27646098|Many estimation and inference problems arising from large-scale animal surveys are focused on developing an understanding of patterns in abundance or occurrence of a species based on spatially referenced count data. One fundamental challenge, then, is that it is generally not feasible to completely enumerate ("census") all individuals present in each sample unit. This observation bias may consist of several components, including spatial coverage bias (not all individuals in the population are exposed to sampling) and detection bias (exposed individuals may go undetected). Thus, observations are biased for the state variable (abundance, occupancy) that is the object of inference. Moreover, data are often sparse for most observation locations, requiring consideration of methods for spatially aggregating or otherwise combining sparse data among sample units. The development of methods that unify spatial statistical models with models accommodating non-detection is necessary to resolve important spatial inference problems based on animal survey data. In this paper, we develop a novel hierarchical spatial model for estimation of abundance and occurrence from survey data wherein detection is imperfect. Our application is focused on spatial inference problems in the Swiss Survey of Common Breeding Birds. The observation model for the survey data is specified conditional on the unknown quadrat population size, N(s). We augment the observation model with a spatial process model for N(s), describing the spatial variation in abundance of the species. The model includes explicit sources of variation in habitat structure (forest, elevation) and latent variation in the form of a correlated spatial process. This provides a model-based framework for combining the spatially referenced samples while at the same time yielding a unified treatment of estimation problems involving both abundance and occurrence. We provide a Bayesian framework for analysis and prediction based on the integrated likelihood, and we use the model to obtain estimates of abundance and occurrence maps for the European Jay (Garrulus glandarius), a widespread, elusive, forest bird. The naive national abundance estimate ignoring imperfect detection and incomplete quadrat coverage was 77 766 territories. Accounting for imperfect detection added approximately 18 000 territories, and adjusting for coverage bias added another 131 000 territories to yield a fully corrected estimate of the national total of about 227 000 territories. This is approximately three times as high as previous estimates that assume every territory is detected in each quadrat.
10.2307/2937331|Using mark-recapture experiments, I studied the foraging movements of two crucifer feeding flea beetles, Phyllotreta cruciferae and P. striolata. To determine the influence of distance between host patches, and their quality, on beetle movement, I released marked beetles in experimental arrays of collards (Brassica oleracea). I quantified and interpreted movement behavior by applying a passive diffusion model and a continuous-time Markov model to recapture distributions. These models provided both a standard protocol for interspecific comparisons and a formal tool for translating movements into steady-state foraging patterns. In homogeneous arrays (all collard patches of similar quality), P. cruciferae and P. striolata moved in accordance with a constant-coefficient diffusion model. The dispersal rates of both beetles increased as the distance between patches declined; thus, patches of collards acted as stepping-stones to accelerate beetle dispersal. Beetle movement was hampered by old-field vegetation; beetles moved along cultivated ground in lieu of entering dense stands of goldenrod. Under all experimental conditions, P. cruciferae was consistently more mobile than P. striolata. By differentially fertilizing and pruning collards, I created @'lush@' and @'stunted@' patches of collards, which were arranged alternately along linear arrays. To determine the influence of patch dispersion on foraging selectivity, I varied the distance between these patches of unequal quality. The degree of foraging discrimination exhibited by the beetles was greatest where patches were closest together, and declined as distance between patches increased. At comparable spacings, P. cruciferae consistently exhibited a higher degree of foraging discrimination than did P. striolata. I developed a Markov model of patch-to-patch dispersal in which each flea beetle's probability of movement depends on patch quality and distance to neighboring patches. Using 60-min observations of marked flea beetles to estimate model parameters, I found that the steady states of foraging discrimination predicted by the model matched the discrimination levels exhibited by undisturbed flea beetles in comparable control arrays of collard patches. Thus, simple movement rules were extrapolated into expected foraging behavior; the dependence of that foraging behavior on patch dispersion was shown to be mediated by varying levels of mobility. In particular, proximity between heterogeneous patches affords beetles greater opportunity for nonrandom foraging than when patches are widely scattered. Since movement is the mechanism by which beetles respond to heterogeneous environments, rates and patterns of movement determine each species' ability to concentrate its numbers on the best foodplants. P. cruciferae is more mobile than P. striolata and in turn can better adjust to variation in collard quality. The interplay between beetle movement and plant dispersion may have consequences well beyond the simple distribution of feeding activity among heterogeneous host patches.
10.2307/2963515|Management of ecosystems at large regional or continental scales and determination of the vulnerability of ecosystems to large-scale changes in climate or atmospheric chemistry require understanding how ecosystem processes are governed at large spatial scales. A collaborative project, the Vegetation and Ecosystem Modeling and Analysis Project (VEMAP), addressed modeling of multiple resource limitation at the scale of the conterminous United States, and the responses of ecosystems to environmental change. In this paper, we evaluate the model-generated patterns of spatial variability within and between ecosystems using Century, TEM, and Biome-BGC, and the relationships between modeled water balance, nutrients, and carbon dynamics. We present evaluations of models against mapped and site-specific data. In this analysis, we compare model-generated patterns of variability in net primary productivity (NPP) and soil organic carbon (SOC) to, respectively, a satellite proxy and mapped SOC from the VEMAP soils database (derived from USDA-NRCS [Natural Resources Conservation Service] information) and also compare modeled results to site-specific data from forests and grasslands. The VEMAP models simulated spatial variability in ecosystem processes in substantially different ways, reflecting the models' differing implementations of multiple resource limitation of NPP. The models had substantially higher correlations across vegetation types compared to within vegetation types. All three models showed correlation among water use, nitrogen availability, and primary production, indicating that water and nutrient limitations of NPP were equilibrated with each other at steady state. This model result may explain a number of seemingly contradictory observations and provides a series of testable predictions. The VEMAP ecosystem models were implicitly or explicitly sensitive to disturbance in their simulation of NPP and carbon storage. Knowledge of the effects of disturbance (human and natural) and spatial data describing disturbance regimes are needed for spatial modeling of ecosystems. Improved consideration of disturbance is a key "next step" for spatial ecosystem models.
40385226|The recent warming in the Arctic is affecting a broad spectrum of physical, ecological, and human/cultural systems that may be irreversible on century time scales and have the potential to cause rapid changes in the earth system. The response of the carbon cycle of the Arctic to changes in climate is a major issue of global concern, yet there has not been a comprehensive review of the status of the contemporary carbon cycle of the Arctic and its response to climate change. This review is designed to clarify key uncertainties and vulnerabilities in the response of the carbon cycle of the Arctic to ongoing climatic change. While it is clear that there are substantial stocks of carbon in the Arctic, there are also significant uncertainties associated with the magnitude of organic matter stocks contained in permafrost and the storage of methane hydrates beneath both subterranean and submerged permafrost of the Arctic. In the context of the global carbon cycle, this review demonstrates that the Arctic plays an important role in the global dynamics of both CO and CH . Studies suggest that the Arctic has been a sink for atmospheric CO of between 0 and 0.8 Pg C/yr in recent decades, which is between 0% and 25% of the global net land/ocean flux during the 1990s. The Arctic is a substantial source of CH to the atmosphere (between 32 and 112 Tg CH/yr), primarily because of the large area of wetlands throughout the region. Analyses to date indicate that the sensitivity of the carbon cycle of the Arctic during the remainder of the 21st century is highly uncertain. To improve the capability to assess the sensitivity of the carbon cycle of the Arctic to projected climate change, we recommend that (1) integrated regional studies be conducted to link observations of carbon dynamics to the processes that are likely to influence those dynamics, and (2) the understanding gained from these integrated studies be incorporated into both uncoupled and fully coupled carbon-climate modeling efforts.
40385210|The problem of observation error in assessing the dynamics of populations over time has received increasing attention of late. Of particular interest has been a densityindependent dynamic model, which allows a trend and is commonly employed in population viability analysis (PVA). Most of the recent work in this area has focused on assessing the impact of the observation error and on finding corrected estimators, primarily under normal models with the observation errors assumed to have a constant variance. This paper provides a comprehensive overview of statistical methods for this problem and evaluates them through simulations. This includes the development and assessment of simple and practical ways to obtain standard errors and confidence intervals for the basic parameters in the model and functions of them, such as the intrinsic rate of increase or the probability of eventual extinction. We allow for unequally spaced data and possibly changing observation error variances, and we also discuss how to employ standard errors that often accompany the estimated abundances. Both likelihood techniques under normality and methods allowing non-normal observation errors are discussed, and we describe how the various likelihoodbased techniques can be implement using standard mixed-model software, such as PROC MIXED in SAS. The projection technique we use to handle functions of the basic parameters is also valuable when there is no observation error. The methods are motivated and illustrated using data for grizzly bears, Whooping Cranes, California Condors, and Puerto Rican Parrots. We present a simulation experiment to evaluate the performance of the some of the methods.
10.2307/1942316|Study of three species of Callitriche from California revealed different degrees of tolerance of varying environmental conditions which help explain the plants' occurrence. Plants were studied in nature and experimentally under sterile conditions. Callitriche palustris occurs over a wide geographical range in highly divergent habitats, but C. longipedunculata and C. hermaphroditica grow in more restricted conditions, the former being confined to low altitude vernal pools in central and southern California. Callitriche palustris tolerated wider temperature ranges for seed germination and flowering than did the other two species, and tolerated lower light intensity and higher osmotic pressure for growth and flowering than did C. longipedunculata. At low temperatures C. palustris flowered in both 8- and 16-h photoperiods; C. longipedunculata flowered only in 16-h photoperiods. Dormancy of C. palustris seed could be overcome with milder treatments than could dormancy of C. longipedunculata seed. Callitriche palustris, a highly protogynous species, was able to set normal amounts of viable seed at temperatures permitting formation of only pistillate flowers. Circumstantial evidence indicates that much of this species' reproduction in nature is apomictic. Apomixis would tend to preserve the highly tolerant genotypes this species has evolved.
3100072|Statistical models for estimating absolute densities of field populations of animals have been widely used over the last century in both scientific studies and wildlife management programs. To date, two general classes of density estimation models have been developed: models that use data sets from capture-recapture or removal sampling techniques (often derived from trapping grids) from which separate estimates of population size
10.2307/1942308|The wood frog, Rana sylvatica, and the leopard frog, Rana pipiens, occur sympatrically over much of northern North America. Within this area the two appear to show habitat separation. Previous studies have given circumstantial evidence that competition leading to the habitat separation might be occurring between tadpoles of these species. In a pond on the University of Michigan's Edwin S. George Reserve, tadpoles were raised in enclosures where species composition and density of experimental populations were controlled. A preliminary experiment was designed to determine the influence of density and mixing of species on tadpole survival and production of biomass. In a second experiment, in addition to density, food and predation levels were manipulated to determine which were influential in the responses observed. The behavior of tadpoles in the 2 yr was markedly different. In the first experiment tadpoles behaved as if there were no limiting carrying capacity to the pond; mean survivorship was about 14%. There was no evidence of competition. In the second experiment the pond's carrying capacity appeared to be near the lowest density level tested. Both species reacted strongly to each other, behaving like ecological equals. Tadpole survivorship proved sensitive to both predation and food levels. At high predation levels, the effect of mixing species was reduced. Although mixed populations performed less well than those raised alone, I was unable to alter the interaction by adding food to experimental populations even though intraspecies competitive effects were reduced. The original concept of this ecological system was that it would be controlled either by food or by predators. The results of both experiments suggest that this concept was erroneous. Both factors act jointly. The role of food must not be studied without recognition of the extent to which predators can change the impact of tadpoles on their food supply, and vice versa. The results of the first experiment suggest that interspecific competition for food under natural conditions can eventually be demonstrated, because food levels can be sufficiently increased to negate the influence of one species on the other. As ecological systems are feedback systems, future field studies must become more experimental if they are to reveal the underlying mechanisms determining the structure and function of ecosystems.
10.2307/2937033|The Appalachian extension of the Boreal Forest, dominated by balsam fir, red spruce, and white birch, extends down the slope of the Green Mountains to about 2,600 ft (792 m), where it merges with the Eastern Deciduous Forest dominated by sugar maple, beech, and yellow birch. These two forest formations occur as well-developed horizontal bands on the mountains, with a distinctive tension zone forest between them. In this midslope forest the species of neither the deciduous nor boreal forest are able to form well-developed long-lived stands. The contact between the deciduous and boreal forest is climatically, not edaphically, controlled. The current vegetation and soil development is the result of the long-term effects of a vertical climatic discontinuity expressed as a nonlinear decline in the length of the frost-free period across the midslope transitional forest and as a marked increase in the frequency of the cloud base at and above ca. 792 m. This results is increased moisture from fog drip and frequent occurrence of hoar frost in winter. The sharp decrease in the length of the growing season, together with marked changes in icing and atmospheric moisture conditions, limits the upward extension of the beech-maple forest.
23047070|Telemetry methods and remote sensing now make it possible to record the spatial usage of wide-ranging marine animals and the biophysical characteristics of their pelagic habitats. Furthermore, recent statistical advances mean that such data can be used to test ecological hypotheses and estimate species' distributions. Black-browed Albatrosses Thalassarche melanophrys are highly mobile marine predators with a circumpolar breeding and foraging distribution in the Southern Hemisphere. Although they remain relatively abundant, increased fisheries bycatch has led to their listing as endangered by conservation bodies. We satellite-tracked 163 breeding Black-browed Albatrosses and eight closely related Campbell Albatrosses T. impavida from nine colonies. We then quantified habitat usage, and modeled population-level spatial distribution at spatiotemporal scales >50 km and 1 month, as a function of habitat accessibility, habitat preference, and intraspecific competition, using mixed-effects generalized additive models (GAMM). During incubation, birds foraged over a wider area than in the post-brood chick-rearing period, when they are more time constrained. Throughout breeding, the order of habitat preference of Black-browed Albatrosses was for neritic (0500 m), shelf-break and upper shelf-slope (5001000 m), and then oceanic (>1000 m) waters. Black-browed Albatrosses also preferred areas with steeper (>3) bathymetric relief and, in addition, during incubation, warmer sea surface temperatures (peak preference 16C). Although this suggests specialization in neritic habitats, incubation-stage Black-browed Albatrosses from South Georgia also foraged extensively in oceanic waters, preferring areas with high eddy kinetic energy (>250 cm 2 /s 2 ), especially the Brazil-Malvinas Confluence, a region of intense mesoscale turbulence. During chick-rearing, this species had a more southerly distribution, and following the seasonal retreat of sea ice, birds from some populations utilized neritic polar waters. Campbell Albatrosses showed similar bathymetric preferences but also preferred positive sea level anomalies. Black-browed Albatross foraging areas were partially spatially segregated with respect to colony and region, with birds preferring locations distant from neighboring colonies, presumably in order to reduce competition between parapatric conspecifics. At the global scale, the greatest concentrations of breeding Black-browed Albatrosses are in southern South American neritic, shelf-break, and shelf-slope waters. These regions also hold large fisheries and should therefore be a priority for introduction of bycatch mitigation measures.
41739382|Do small-scale experiments showing spatial density dependence in marine fishes scale-up to temporal density dependence and regulation of relatively large local populations? If so, what are the causative mechanisms and their implications? We conducted an eight-year multigeneration study of population dynamics of bicolor damselfish (Stegastes partitus) inhabiting four large coral reefs in the Bahamas. After a four-year baseline period, it was clear that two populations naturally received very few settlement-stage larvae, so recruitment of recently settled fish was artificially enhanced at one low-settlement reef and reduced at one high-settlement reef to ensure a broad range of population sizes over which to test for regulation. Over all eight years, populations on the two naturally high-settlement reefs experienced temporal density dependence in multiple per capita demographic rates: mortality, survival to adulthood, and fecundity. These local populations also displayed components of regulation: persistence, boundedness, and return tendency. Reefs supporting regulated populations were structurally complex, providing sufficient prey refuges that ensured high survival at low densities. In contrast, populations at low-settlement reefs experienced either density-independent or slightly inversely density-dependent demographic rates, even though recruitment was artificially augmented to high levels at one reef. There was no evidence of regulation at these reefs, and indeed, one local population suffered temporary extirpation. Here, habitat complexity was relatively low, increasing the risk of prdation, especially at low population densities when fish would have to travel longer distances when finding mates or home sites inhabited by conspecifics. Among all demographic parameters, density dependence in individual growth (an indicator of within-species competition for food) was least correlated with the presence or absence of local population regulation. We conclude that, for systems like these, the environmental context of a local population, especially predation risk and the distribution and abundance of spatial refuges, is more important than the magnitude of larval supply alone in determining the existence of regulating density dependence. At the broader metapopulation scale, density dependence in both survival and fecundity exogenously caused by predation may provide regulation for the entire stock, even when endogenous withinspecies competition (assumed to be important in most fisheries models) is weak.
10.2307/2963507|Fish assemblages of temperate lakes are structured primarily by an interaction between piscivory and a small number of environmental variables, but tropical floodplain assemblages have often been viewed as unpredictably structured. We tested the predictability of fish assemblage structure in floodplain lakes of the Orinoco River, Venezuela, in relation to 22 variables describing environmental variation at the microhabitat, habitat, and supra-lake levels. Fish species abundances were estimated through electrofishing surveys of 20 lakes in three regions for the early and late dry seasons of each of two consecutive years. Canonical correspondence analyses indicated that assemblage structure was predictably related to only four descriptors of lakes: transparency, conductance, depth, and area. Discriminant function analyses revealed that transparency ("clear": Secchi transparency
43188380|Variable hydrology of rivers strongly affects biophysical factors that influence primary production and population densities, thereby affecting the relative influence of bottom-up and top-down processes in trophic networks. Many tropical floodplain rivers have sustained seasonal flood pulses driven by precipitation patterns of the Intertropical Convergence Zone. These changes in flow alter concentrations of dissolved nutrients, aquatic primary productivity, and per-unit-area densities of aquatic organisms. Therefore, one would predict that the strength of top-down effects of animals on basal resources should shift as the annual flood pulse progresses. We conducted a series of field experiments in a Neotropical lowland river to test for effects of hydrologic phase, habitat (in-channel vs. floodplain aquatic habitat), and benthic-feeding fish and meiofauna on particulate organic matter, chlorophyll, and benthic microalgae. Net ecosystem productivity of this oligotrophic river is higher during the low phase of the annual flood cycle, which is also when resident fishes are at highest densities and there is a seasonal influx of migratory benthic-feeding fish. We therefore hypothesized that top-down effects of benthic-feeding fish would fluctuate temporally, with strongest effects during low water levels. We found that fish controlled the abundance of particulate organic matter and algae on solid substrates, but not on sand, during falling-and low-water phases within both channel and floodplain habitats. Except for diatom assemblages, which responded to fish exclusion, the taxonomic structure of algal and meiofauna assemblages was not significantly influenced by fish-exclusion treatments, but varied in relation to habitat type and hydrologic phase. Meiofauna densities were highest during the low-water period; experimental exclusion of meiofauna during this period had a significant effect on accumulation of particulate organic matter in sand. By controlling abundance of important basal resources, fishes and meiofauna have a large potential to influence other components of this tropical ecosystem. Our findings emphasize the predictable, gradual, changes in consumer-resource interactions associated with the seasonal flood pulse in tropical river systems.
10.2307/1948494|The biology of Australian reef populations of the shark Heterodontus portusjacksoni has been studied underwater with SCUBA. Additional life-history data have been obtained from catch records of adults and juveniles and from observations on captive animals. The mature breeding female H. portusjacksoni lays 10-16 eggs which are deposited in rock fissures on shallow reefs; the young emerge approximately 1 year later. The breeding season on the central coast of New South Wales occurs in late winter and spring. This species appears to segregate by sex into separate juvenile, adolescent, and adult populations. A slow growth rate and protracted immaturity is characteristic. Sexual maturity is reached at 8-10 years for males and 11-14 years for females. Most feeding occurs during darkness over both reefs and soft substrates, gut contents reveal that they feed on a variety of benthic invertebrates. Populations of H. portusjacksoni observed on sublittoral reefs consisted of adult sharks, the majority of which were females. A few specific sites, usually caves in which they shelter during the day, are preferred. Resightings of sharks tagged on a reef at Bondi, Sydney, revealed that animals which formed the local population moved freely to and from the reef and also between the several sites on the reef. Reef densities were highest during the breeding season and were correlated with low water temperatures. Emigration from inshore reefs occurs at the end of the breeding season in late September and October. A number of tagged sharks returned to the same reef in the following year and others after periods of up to 2 years. Recaptures made outside the Sydney area indicate that some sharks may travel several hundred kilometers during their migration.
23208473|At global and regional scales, tree mortality rates are positively correlated with forest net primary productivity (NPP). Yet causes of the correlation are unknown, in spite of potentially profound implications for our understanding of environmental controls of forest structure and dynamics and, more generally, our understanding of broad-scale environmental controls of population dynamics and ecosystem processes. Here we seek to shed light on the causes of geographic patterns in tree mortality rates, and we consider some implications of the positive correlation between mortality rates and NPP. To reach these ends, we present seven hypotheses potentially explaining the correlation, develop an approach to help distinguish among the hypotheses, and apply the approach in a case study comparing a tropical and temperate forest. Based on our case study and literature synthesis, we conclude that no single mechanism controls geographic patterns of tree mortality rates. At least four different mechanisms may be at play, with the dominant mechanisms depending on whether the underlying productivity gradients are caused by climate or soil fertility. Two of the mechanisms are consequences of environmental selection for certain combinations of life-history traits, reflecting trade-offs between growth and defense (along edaphic productivity gradients) and between reproduction and persistence (as manifested in the adult tree stature continuum along climatic and edaphic gradients). The remaining two mechanisms are consequences of environmental influences on the nature and strength of ecological interactions: competition (along edaphic gradients) and pressure from plant enemies (along climatic gradients). For only one of these four mechanisms, competition, can high mortality rates be considered to be a relatively direct consequence of high NPP. The remaining mechanisms force us to adopt a different view of causality, in which tree growth rates and probability of mortality can vary with at least a degree of independence along productivity gradients. In many cases, rather than being a direct cause of high mortality rates, NPP may remain high in spite of high mortality rates. The independent influence of plant enemies and other factors helps explain why forest biomass can show little correlation, or even negative correlation, with forest NPP.
10.2307/2657236|The relative importance of recruitment and post-recruitment factors in controlling population fluctuations and determining population sizes in open marine systems is still poorly understood. To address this issue, I conducted an experiment investigating whether very early post-recruitment mortality of a coral reef fish, Thalassoma bifasciatum, is dependent on recruitment density. To quantify the extent to which local populations are likely to be controlled primarily by recruitment or by post-settlement density-dependent mortality, I also measured natural mortality rates and recruitment variation at sites around the island of St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands. I manipulated densities of 1-3-d post-settlement T. bifasciatum on large natural patch reefs in Tague Bay, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands. Manipulated recruits were followed for 30 d. The loss rate over the initial 24-h period following placement of recruits on the reef was positively related to the density at the beginning of that period. After this period, initial recruit density had no effects on mortality. Natural monthly mortality rates approximating the monthly mortality monitored during the experiment were measured for naturally recruited fish at sites around the island. Mortality was positively correlated with recruitment density. The effect was strong enough that across sites the relationship between recruit density and juvenile density the following month was not proportional; that is, juvenile density tended to reach an asymptote with increasing recruitment. The relationship between total recruitment per season at a site and adult abundance at the end of the season was similarly asymptotic, indicating the persistence of a density-dependent effect at the scale of the island. Mortality rates around the island were extremely variable and density independent at densities below 1 recruit/m<sup>2</sup>. Above that level, mortality rates were higher and tended to increase with further increases in recruitment density. Around St. Croix, three out of eight sites consistently received recruitment above this "threshold," while five sites never experienced recruitment above that level during the study. Because spatial patterns of recruitment around St. Croix were consistent over time, some local populations may be controlled mainly by recruitment and density-independent mortality at all times, while others may be chronically affected by post-settlement density dependence. This study gives support to the idea that recruitment limitation and density dependence are not mutually exclusive. Rather, local populations must be characterized by the degree of recruitment, the resultant population density, and the subsequent degree of density-dependent regulation.
10.2307/2937142|Hurricanes represent an important natural disturbance process to tropical and temperate forests in many coastal areas of the world. The complex patterns of damage created in forests by hurricane winds result from the interaction of meteorological, physiographic, and biotic factors on a range of spatial scales. To improve our understanding of these factors and of the role of catastrophic hurricane wind as a disturbance process, we take an integrative approach. A simple meteorological model (HURRECON) utilizes meteorological data to reconstruct wind conditions at specific sites and regional gradients in wind speed and direction during a hurricane. A simple topographic exposure model (EXPOS) utilizes wind direction predicted by HURRECON and a digital elevation map to estimate landscape-level exposure to the strongest winds. Actual damage to forest stands is assessed through analysis of remotely sensed, historical, and field data. These techniques were used to evaluate the characteristics and impacts of two important hurricanes: Hurricane Hugo (1989) in Puerto Rico and the 1938 New England Hurricane, storms of comparable magnitude in regions that differ greatly in climate, vegetation, physiography, and disturbance regimes. In both cases patterns of damage on a regional scale were found to agree with the predicted distribution of peak wind gust velocities. On a landscape there was also good agreement between patterns of forest damage and predicted exposure in the Luquillo Experimental Forest in Puerto Rico and the town of Petersham, Massachusetts. At the Harvard and Pisgah Forests in central New England the average orientation of wind-thrown trees was very close to the predicted peak wind direction, while at Luquillo there was also good agreement, with some apparent modification of wind direction by the mountainous terrain. At Harvard Forest there was evidence that trees more susceptible to windthrow were felled earlier in the storm. This approach may be used to study the effects of topography on wind direction and the relation of forest damage to wind speed and duration; to establish broad-scale gradients of hurricane frequency, intensity, and wind direction for particular regions; and to determine landscape-level exposure to long-term hurricane disturbance at particular sites.
