20113149|Reports on acidification-induced changes in chemical properties of forest soils in northern Europe, particularly Sweden, are reviewed and evaluated. Most studies have been performed retrospectively by comparing either old data or old preserved samples with recently sampled soils. Almost without exception, decreases in soil pH have been reported for the last 2-5 decades from all horizons of podsols and related soil types. The pH decreases have been accompanied by decreases in exchangeable base cations and increases in exchangeable Al pools. The relative importance of acid deposition and other H sources to the soil chemical changes is discussed.
20113225|The diversity of plants and animals, including invertebrate taxa such as aphids, decreases with increasing latitude from the temperate to the Arctic region. The dominant biotic and abiotic features of the arctic environment (short growing season, low levels of precipitation and incident radiation, poor quality soils and low primary productivity), the most important of which is the year round low average temperature, are collectively unfavourable for terrestrial arthropods compared with conditions in the temperate zone. The main factors determining the impacts of climate warming on arctic aphids are the type of life cycle of the species, its current distribution and abundance, and the level of any constraints imposed by low temperatures on development and survival. On a south-north latitudinal transect comparing aphid species from the temperate zone through the sub-Arctic to the high-Arctic, a number of progressive changes are apparent. There are a fewer generations per year, a decreasing proportion of anholocyclic (asexual) clones, less winged aphids (alates) and an increasing independence of the life cycle from environmental regulation. An extreme adaptive life cycle occurs in some high-Arctic species in which the fundatrix gives birth directly to both sexual morphs which then produce the overwintering eggs. Climate is not a major limitation on the distribution of temperate species but in the high-Arctic the occurrence and abundance of aphids differs in patches of host plant which are only 1 m apart. The wider distribution of high-arctic species follows subtle thermal gradients. Overwintering eggs and active stages (viviparae) of arctic species are more cold hardy than their temperate counterparts. Temperature elevation of 2-3C through the summer season increased the rate of development, survival to adult and density of overwintering eggs of the high-arctic aphid Acyrthosiphon svalbardicum. A similar but less pronounced response was observed with the closely related Acyrthosiphon brevicorne at two sub-arctic sites, supporting the hypothesis that the ecological effects of climate warming will be greatest in severe environments at the most northerly latitudes.
20112871|Gram-negative, manganese-oxidizing bacteria were isolated from one of the hydrothermal vent areas on the Galapagos Rift. The bacteria were recovered from glass slides exposed at Mussel Bed Vent for 10 months and from periostracum of a mussel from this location. The bacteria oxidized
20112845|The finest fraction of suspended matter in stream water was analysed with particle induced X-ray emission (PIXE). Twenty metals were readily detected. The method is very promising for monitoring heavy metals in river water and for geochemical exploration. Theoretical models for the distribution of heavy metals between solution and suspension are presented. The fit of the models to water chemistry is, however, not entirely successful. An empirical equation shows very good correlation between the data for zinc in solution and in suspension.
20112992|Since the beginning of agriculture weeds have been controlled for the sake of crop yield and quality. Due to a general intensification of agriculture (including weed control), the weed flora of arable land has changed and a decline by 30 to 50% in the number of weed species has been observed in the last 30 years. To save rare species, various programmes have been initiated to which agriculture has to contribute since these species depend on arable land. Since a close cooperation between agriculture and ecology is needed in this field, both have to define their aims carefully. There are now new concepts in weed control which tolerate weeds to a certain extent for economical and ecological reasons.
20112915|The total activity of a natural sediment decomposition community can be measured with microcalorimetric techniques. The power-time curves for samples affected by Aliquat 336, compared with control samples, revealed an initial inhibition followed by a marked activation. It is suggested that the activation partly results from an increased amount of easily metabolizable substrates liberated from the cells by Aliquat-provoked injury of the cell membrane. In a study of the effects of Aliquat on bacterial cellulolysis by a Cellulomonas sp., the utilization of cellulose, a glucose polymer, was more affected than that of the glucose monomer at the same concentration of Aliquat. As mere bacteria adhered to cellulose fibre and the affinity for cellulose was higher in the presence of Aliquat it is suggested that an Aliquat-"shell" surrounds the bacterium as an enzyme barrier. In natural sediment samples a similar effect as in the Cellulomonas study was obtained when soluble and solid substrates, respectively, were added to samples affected by Aliquat.
20113120|We have determined the importance of several cultural and environmental factors on ammonia volatilization and nitrous oxide emission from rice fields in experiments conducted in Australia, China and the Philippines. Ammonia loss has been determined in the field by micrometeorological methods. Investigations in which ammonium bicarbonate, ammonium sulfate or urea were incorporated into the soil or broadcast into the floodwater indicate that the important variables controlling ammonia loss are the ammoniacal nitrogen concentration, the pH and temperature of the floodwater, and windspeed; other factors exert their influences through effects on those primary variables. Nitrogen losses from volatilization have varied from 0 to 56% of the nitrogen supplied. Our studies have also shown that some ammonia is emitted to the atmosphere from the leaves of rice plants, but these emissions appear to represent only a small part of the nitrogen budget of the crop, probably less than 5% of the nitrogen applied. Nitrous oxide emissions from temperate and tropical rice fields were studied with chamber techniques. Investigations in two cultural systems, a rotation involving pasture legumes and bare fallow, which produced an appreciable nitrate build-up before the field was flooded, and a system in which a rice field received applications of urea or ammonium sulfate some weeks after flooding, suggest that the emission of nitrous oxide is controlled by the time of flooding relative to nitrate production.
20112941|Fluxes of aluminium, partitioned into dissolved inorganic and organic complexes, and of iron and manganese were measured during two consecutive hydrological years in a catchment on the Swedish west coast. The area is characterized by acid lakes, the surrounding terrestrial parts of the catchment being dominated by shallow podzolic soils with significant inclusions of barren rock and peat soils. Budget calculations for one of the lakes (Lake Grdsjn), with an average pH of 4.66, indicated an aluminium retention in the lake varying between -0.2 and 8.0 kg
20113276|We studied two tenebrionid beetles Oplocephala haemorrhoidalis and Bolitophagus reticulatus breeding in fruiting bodies of the wood-decaying fungus Fomes fomentarius. Bolitophagus reticulatus has recently been studied by several authors because this species was considered to be potentially threatened or because authors wanted to draw conclusions about the demands of the more rare species of the guild. We conclude, however, that B. reticulatus is not likely to become threatened in Sweden because 1) its occurrence at different sites was not affected by substrate continuity, 2) there are relatively high levels of gene flow between its populations and 3) because of unspecific substrate associations. Oplocephala haemorrhoidalis, on the other hand, was strongly restricted to localities with a long continuity of dead wood and showed lower levels of gene flow between its populations. We suggest that the main reason for the scarcity of O. haemorrhoidalis is a weak dispersal propensity, which hinders colonisation of new patches, although suitable substrate is abundant. We further suggest that Oplocephala haemorrhoidalis is suitable as an indicator species whereas B. reticulatus is not. Based on this example, we conclude that direct studies of the threats to rare species will remain essential in conservation biology and cannot be substituted by studies of common species in the same guild.
43908647|It is stressed that the most important prerequisite for a successful conservation programme is the accurate identification and characterization of the genetic resources available. The identification of intraspecific genetic resources is largely a matter of estimating the amount and, in particular, the distribution of genetic variation within the species considered. Using the brown trout as an example, I report on the distribution of genetic variation at three electrophoretically detectable loci coding for -glycerophosphate dehydrogenase, creatine phosphokinase, and lactate dehyrogenase in hatchery stocks and natural populations which have been subjected to various degrees of human manipulation. The results indicate that (i) the genetic structure of naturally occurring brown trout populations is far more complicated than was previously recognized, (ii) genetically differentiated subpopulations exist within extremely small geographical areas, and (iii) this genetic differentiation is coupled with ecological and morphological divergence. The genetic pattern observed in waters affected by human perturbations indicate that the disturbances have drastically altered the distribution of genetic variation in those areas and that the genetic characteristics of previously existing subpopulations have most likely been lost. There is also strong evidence showing that current hatchery stocking procedures may frequently change the genetic composition of the stock (genetic resource) they were intended to preserve. These findings are discussed from a perspective of currently practised and future management operations.
20113164|This article focuses on south Swedish research on soil acidification and its impact on field-layer vegetation in beech Fagus sylvatica, oak Quercus robur and hornbeam Carpinus betulus forests. Soil acidification has occurred since at least the 1950's and is of such magnitude that it has been detected over a period of only 10 yr. Acidification can be quantified as a lowering of soil pH, most pronounced in soils with originally high pH. The cations are leached out of the soil and the pools available to plants decrease gradually. The average annual decrease in recent decades has been 1%. Changes in the occurrence of vascular plants have been investigated mainly by repeating earlier vegetation analyses after 10, 30, 40 and 60 yr. Many typical field-layer species of deciduous forests have been negatively affected, both quantitatively and qualitatively, during recent decades, especially in soils which have become too acid for them. The more intense management of beech forests today has, among other things, allowed certain weed species to establish themselves. If management trends continue in this direction, these species may become part of the "natural" species composition of these forests. The doubled N-deposition since the 1950's is another factor that, until now, seems to have led to a higher diversity and abundance of several species in deciduous forests. Nowadays N is available in excess in many south Swedish forest soils and NO may leach out of the soil, leading to further acidification and accelerated leaching of other nutrients. The form of inorganic N available to plants may limit growth. Acid soils have a lower nitrification potential and NH as the sole N-form may be inadequate for plants usually growing in less acid soils. For some species the hydrogen ion concentration per se seems to be crucial, but decreased growth and survival may also result from a high Al concentration or Al/Ca ratio.
20112861|Discussion of the role of the biota in determining atmospheric CO levels has been largely concerned with autotrophic producers. Such organisms dominate in biomass and are most obviously affected by human activities such as tropical deforestation. A very simple 3-compartment model of the global terrestrial carbon cycle demonstrates that changes in atmospheric CO can be independent of the magnitude of autotrophic biomass though not of the kinetic constants descriptive of primary production. The biomass of heterotrophic consumers and decomposers is an explicit term of positive sign in the equations describing the rate of change of
20112828|Nitrogen mineralization in a Scots pine forest soil was studied by incubation of soil samples for 6-week periods. Soil samples incubated in the laboratory and in the field differed in nitrogen mineralization rate, mainly because of different temperature, moisture and substrate heterogeneity. Incubation of litter, humus and mineral soil samples in the field during two consecutive years resulted in low rates of mineralization or immobilization. The mineralization rate estimated for the whole soil profile during the growing season was far too low for maintaining the plant community with mineral nitrogen. It is suggested that the low mineralization rates in the incubated samples are caused by fine-root death, which in the present soil of high C/N ratio results in initial immobilization.
20112919|The uptake by aquatic organisms of chlorine containing organic compounds from pulp mill bleachery effluents was studied using a
20112686|Many blue-green algae liberate substantial quantities of combined nitrogen to their surroundings and in the case of symbiotic associations of such algae, the benefit to the nitrogen nutrition of the partner can be considerable. Although further movement of nitrogen from the recipient member of a symbiosis would not on the face of it be expected there are reports in the literature that such releases of nitrogen do take place. Peltigera canina and Lobaria pulmonaria, terricolous and corticolous lichens respectively, were examined. After enrichment of the thalli with
20113112|Closed flux chamber/gas chromatographic methods used in one particular study of emissions of nitrous oxide from fertilised arable and grassland soils are described, and the principal results are outlined. Fluxes varied greatly in time and space. The highest observed exceeded 500 g NO-N
20112731|From the ecological viewpoint, the single most important development in the existence of herbicides is the large-scale and sustained expansion of their use. This is not only a reflection of their great efficiency but also a tribute to the many facets of the agricultural industry, which contributed to their discovery and development. There is another feature which differentiates herbicides from other pesticides: in general terms, a disease or pest problem depends on the presence of loci of infection which spread under favourable conditions; weeds, on the other hand, are normally present in every crop, and their effective control is an integral component of growing the crop. Thus, the persistency of a weed species in the soil is an important parameter. Much research has been done on the effects of herbicides on soil microorganisms, but the techniques and the interpretation of the data in long-term experiments have proved over the years to be difficult to evaluate. Recently, however, compounds have been synthesized that are either actively taken up by the leaves or can be absorbed through the roots. The general evidence does not suggest that the phytotoxic residues are fixed in the soil.
20113339|In this dendro-ecological study stem radial growth patterns were used to reconstruct the growth patterns of and competitive interaction between beech Fagus sylvatica and ash Fraxinus excelsior in a semi-natural temperate deciduous forest in Denmark. The site, Suserup Skov, has a long history of low human impact under a relatively calm natural disturbance regime. The structural dynamics of Suserup Skov can be described by the forest cycle concept (gap phase dynamics). According to previous studies the climax micro-succession from ash to beech is an integral part of the forest cycle. The objective of the present study was to compare the growth and recruitment patterns of ash and beech with respect to the forest cycle. Tree ring cores from 100 ash and 151 beech trees, from sapling size (&gt 5 cm DBH) to canopy tree size, were sampled. Growth rates under release were significantly higher than growth rates under suppression -- a factor 3 for ash and 5 for beech. Most sampled trees of ash (89%) and beech (99%) had experienced suppression as well as release (beech 76%, ash 96%). Beech experienced more and longer periods of suppression, than ash, and spent 80% yr in suppression, while the ashes only spent 40% yr in suppression. Accordingly, ash trees were significantly higher and thicker than beech trees of the same age. The study revealed clear, distinct and significant differences in the growth patterns of beech and ash. The results can be interpreted as a "rush" competitive strategy for ash, to establish first in new gaps and then to stay in front while rushing towards the canopy. The interpretation for beech is a "stop and go" competitive strategy, step by step slowly approaching a dominant position in the canopy. The described growth patterns of ash and beech are in accordance with the suggested model of the forest cycle, including climax micro-succession from ash to beech. The growth patterns and competitive strategies found confirms with other studies of the ecology of ash and beech -- ash is a light demanding gap specialist and beech is a shade-tolerant "climax" species. However, the full picture is far more complex. For instance, ash and beech are equally shade-tolerant in youth -- for ash this feature ceases with age which creates a complex competitive pattern. The example from Suserup Skov explains some of the forest dynamics that allows long-term co-occurrence of early and late successional species in late successional ("climax") forest.
20112902|Concentrations of lead in body tissues and faeces of the omnivorous slug, Arion rufus L. and vegetation from its habitat, were measured from July to October 1981 by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Samples were collected from three sites at varying distances from a road on Djursland (Denmark) with intense tourist traffic. The results show a sharp decrease of Pb concentration in plants with increasing distance from the road. The concentration of Pb in slug bodies and in faeces follows the pattern observed in plants but in addition tends to increase with body weight. Lead concentration in slugs from the road verge decreased significantly from mid-August (end of tourist traffic) until mid-September but no seasonal changes were detected in Pb concentration in slugs from more distant sites. The importance of slugs as bioindicators of environmental lead pollution is discussed on the basis of these results. Some speculations on the role of animals in pollution transfer in different ecosystems are also presented.
20113341|In the natural temperate deciduous forest the gap-phase is crucial for forest regeneration and succession. During a relatively short time span the forest microclimate is changed with higher global radiation, larger temperature fluctuations, and less demand for soil water and nutrients from trees. These changes depend on the size and structure of the gap. This study takes a closer look at the changes in the hydrological cycle in a small canopy gap (diameter &lt stand height) in Suserup Skov during the first and second growing season following the gap-establishment. Specifically the effects of gap formation on throughfall, soil moisture, forest floor evapotranspiration and individual tree transpiration for European beech Fagus sylvatica is described. Stemflow for European beech and common ash Fraxinus excelsior for exposed trees and for trees in the intact forest is shown. Further, a non-linear model is used to test the significance of tree size and position on the spatial variability of water use at the soil moisture measurement positions. Throughfall was significantly higher in the gap than in intact forest positions annually (17%) as well as in summer (19-30%) and spring (19%). Soil moisture in the gap was significantly higher than in intact forest positions during summer and autumn. In gap positions soil moisture remained near 90% of field capacity during the summer months compared to 60-70% in the intact forest. Forest floor evapotranspiration did not differ between the intact forest and gap positions. Stemflow for European beech was higher than for common ash (2:1) and for both species higher when bare than when in leaf (2:1). Stemflow was highest for exposed trees when bare. On a stand level, stemflow was 2% of precipitation (in leaf), 6% (bare) and 12% (exposed trees when bare). The spatial variability in water use at the soil moisture measurement positions was correlated to tree basal area and to the distance between measurement points and the surrounding trees (r=0.43, p&lt0.0001). Though there was a tendency for the residuals to vary with the species dominance at the measurement positions, it was not possible to establish species specific models. High soil moisture in the gap allowed released subcanopy trees at the gap edge to sustain high rates of transpiration during the summer in contrast to trees in the stand that were limited by low soil moisture in late summer. Sap flux density was higher for released subcanopy trees than for subcanopy trees below the intact canopy in late, but not in early summer. Daily tree transpiration was higher for canopy trees than for subcanopy trees below the intact canopy during late summer and higher for canopy than for released subcanopy trees mostly in early summer. It is suggested that these changes are short lived as already in the second summer after gap establishment there were signs that the below ground gap was closing.
20113207|We review patterns and processes important for biodiversity in the Fennoscandian boreal forest, describe man's past and present impact and outline a strategy for conservation. Natural disturbances, particularly forest fire and gap formation, create much of the structural and functional diversity in forest ecosystems. Several boreal plants and animals are adapted to fire regimes. In contrast, many organisms (epiphytic lichens, fungi, invertebrates) require stable conditions with long continuity in canopy cover. The highly mechanised and efficient Fennoscandian forest industry has developed during the last century. The result is that most natural forest has been lost and that several hundreds of species, mainly cryptogams and invertebrates, are threatened. The forestry is now in a transition from exploitation to sustainable production and has recently incorporated some measures to protect the environment. Programmes for maintaining biodiversity in the boreal forest should include at least three parts. First, the system of forest reserves must be significantly improved through protection of large representative ecosystems and key biotopes that host threatened species. Second, we must restore ecosystem properties that have been lost or altered. Natural disturbance regimes must be allowed to operate or be imitated, for example by artificial fire management. Stand-level management should particularly increase the amount of coarse woody debris, the number of old deciduous trees and large, old conifers, by using partial cutting. Third, natural variation should also be mimicked at the landscape level, for example, by reducing fragmentation and increasing links between landscape elements. Long-term experiments are required to evaluate the success of different management methods in maintaining biodiversity in the boreal forest.
20112598|This work was carried out with the object of estimating the effects of burning of the Monte on soil microarthropods in the semi-arid pampa zone. Soil samples were collected periodically after controlled or uncontrolled accidental fire and were examined for their microarthropod content. The results indicate that burning a natural cover of the Monte did not affect the composition of the microarthropod fauna. Moreover, the seasonal variations in the total number of fauna and in the two dominant groups, Acarina and Collembola, were found to be more important than the effects produced by fire.
20112849|Thermothrix thiopara, an extremely thermophilic sulfur autotroph, colonizes hot spring tufa at a temperature of 74C and a pH of 7.0. Sulfide-oxygen interfaces occur in these environments where reducing, geothermal ground waters mix with the oxidizing atmosphere. On the reducing side of the interface the organism forms macroscopic streamers consisting of filamentous cells. These grow longer until they extend to the oxidizing side of the interface where they fragment into flagellated unicells. This strategy apparently optimizes reproductive success despite the rapid washout of planktonic unicells due to their low specific growth rate (0.59
20113325|We estimated the minimum area of strictly protected forests, which could maintain species of "management-incompatible forests" (i.e. not surviving in timber production areas), in Estonia. The planned protected area comprised minimum amounts of habitat for the viability of such species, and a "buffer amount", which may be temporarily lost in natural disturbances. The steps were 1) estimation of mean frequency of stand-replacing disturbances for Estonian forest site types; 2) reconstruction of the structure of natural forest area by age classes and forest site types; 3) comparison of the natural age structure with that in managed forests to define the management-incompatible part; 4) estimation of the historical area of different age classes, critical threshold of its loss for specialist species, and the "buffer" area; 5) defining gaps by comparing reserve need with current protected forest area; 6) analysis of the model sensitivity to errors in the estimates of wildfire frequency. Management-incompatible forest (&gt 100 yr since the last stand-replacing disturbance) covered historically 32-42% of today's forest land. The theoretical minimum need for strictly protected forests was estimated at 8.5-11.3% of current forest land, one-fourth being the "buffer amount". However, if current reserves retain their status, filling the gaps for underrepresented forest site types yields a total coverage of 10.4-13.2%. This difference is mostly due to the high present coverage within the current reserves of heath forests and oligotrophic paludifying forests (low silvicultural interest) and drained peatland forests (not a natural site type). The results were relatively insensitive to variation in the fire frequency data, and close to earlier estimates for Fennoscandia. We suggest that the estimated amount of reserve areas should be taken as approximate minimum targets in forest reserve development in Estonia, even though future studies are likely to increase the accuracy and precision of the estimates.
20112847|River water samples were collected ten times during a 24-month period at 16 stations in the Rne, Tre, Kalix and Torne rivers in northern Sweden. Silicon, Al, Mn, Fe, Ca, Mg, Na, Ba and Sr were measured in the aqueous phase and in addition Cu, Ni, Zr, Cr, Zn and V were determined in the suspended fraction. This report is restricted to six stations in the Kalix River. Silicon, Ca, Mg, Na, Sr and Ba are predominantly transported in dissolved phase, whereas most of the Fe and Al are in the suspended fraction. Mn is almost equally distributed between the phases. The annual run off from the Kalix River to the Bothnian Bay shows very high concentrations of Fe and Mn in the suspended matter. Furthermore, this fraction consists of at least four independent phases. Fe and Mn are not correlated and Mn might be of biogeochemical origin.
20113166|Epiphytic vegetation (lichens, bryophytes and algae) in 12 beech forests in the provinces of Skne, Halland and Smland was analysed at the end of the 1970's and again at the beginning of the 1990's. The number of species per plot did not change during the investigation period, although the species turnover was between 15% and 35%, mostly involving species with a sparse abundance. In the Skne sites, Lepraria incana and Chrysotrix candelaris increased while Pertusaria amara, P. pertusa and Phlyctis argena decreased. In the Halland sites, the changes were small. In the inland area (Smland), with a richer epiphytic flora, L. incana, Scoliciosporum chlorococcum, Lecanora conizaeiodes, Isothecium myurum, Pertusaria flavida and Ochrolechia androgyna increased. Although there was a great variation in the epiphytic vegetation among different trees in the sites, an ordination of the vegetation shows that on three sites a significant change in the epiphytic vegetation had occurred. At two of these sites the forest had become less illuminated as a result of a more closed canopy, while at the third one only the differences in the epiphytic vegetation among trees had increased. The vegetational changes found in the investigation were either non directional interannual variation or could be related to a change in the canopy cover in the forest causing a decrease in light and an increase in moisture.
20112738|2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD, dioxin) is considered to be suitable as a chemical warfare agent for long-term area denial and other hostile purposes. The adverse ecological consequences of such military action would be drastic in the light of the extreme toxicity, ecological mobility and great environmental persistence of dioxin, as revealed in laboratory trials and in field observations of cases involving accidental contamination. The social consequences would also be drastic, owing to the potential pathological effects and to the long-lasting unusability of contaminated areas for agricultural or other civil pursuits.
20112996|Over the past 30 years chemical plant protection agents have proven to be reliable, potent and economic tools of control and have contributed, along with other agricultural inputs, towards increased crop yields, higher agricultural productivity and improved quality of agricultural commodities. However, in some crops and regions the unbalanced use of chemicals and the neglect of traditional means of control have led to negative consequences, such as resistance of pest species against chemicals, elimination of beneficials, outbreaks of secondary insect pests and resurgence of insect pest populations. During the past decades novel and more potent chemicals were introduced for plant protection in terms of activity (dosage rates
20113150|The acid/base soil chemistry at 400-700 Swedish forest sites (the number of sites depending on soil horizon), was characterized by a PCA analysis for each soil horizon (O, E, B and "C" horizon). The "C" horizon represented a soil depth of 50 cm. The variables used in the PCA model were the percentage saturation values of exchangeable
20112899|Surface-active alkyltrimethylammonium salts induce rapid lysis of various types of cells. Lysis is produced at pre-micellar concentrations of the surfactants, showing that it is the monomeric species of the surfactants and not the micelles that bind to the membrane. The main target for the surfactants is the lipid bilayer of the plasma membrane. When being intercalated in the lipid bilayer of the plasma membrane the surfactants initially enhance certain membrane-bound processes, probably by increasing the fluidity of the lipid bilayer. At a given concentration of surfactants in the membrane, however, mixed micelles are formed in the lipid bilayer and as a result the cells are lysed. The ability of the surfactants to cause lysis and to affect membranebound processes is positively related to the length of the alkyl chain up to a given length of the chain (16-18 carbon atoms). It is proposed that surface-active agents with a pronounced amphiphilic character interact with cell membranes in principally the same way.
20112591|A commentary on the growth and development of roots and rhizomes and on how they may affect or respond to certain abiotic and biotic components of the soil, especially nematodes and fungi. Several complex interrelationships are mentioned including one in which the ageing process of the whole plant is hastened; one in which the roots are made unsuitable for succeeding parasites; and one in which a fungus appears to be a common but symptomless parasite. A report of trials involving mycorrhizal fungi shows that they may provide some protection for carrots against the root-knot nematode Meloidogyne hapla, but no protection for tomato roots against these nematodes, or to the fungus that induces Fusarium wilt.
20112502|Water plays a main role in the ecosystem as a carrier of dissolved substances. A key zone in the ecology/hydrology interaction consists of foliage, ground surface and root system. The hydrochemical composition of the water in the catchment depends on the pathway followed and the time spent in the catchment. Land-use modifications disturb the sensitive hydrological and hydrochemical equilibrium. The time delay until full response has been developed depends partly upon what parts of the intricate system of waterflows and storages are affected. Information is finally given on a recent initiative to develop regional cooperation between high-altitude countries with research basins, expressing the wish that MAB might also be able to benefit from this basin research.
20113268|The density, decay stage and spatial distribution of downed logs was studied within a large, homogenous area of pristine spruce taiga in the southern boreal region, west of the Ural mountains, Russia. Data was collected in four 2 m wide and 500 m long transects, divided into 5 m long contiguous quadrates. Picea abies dominated the forest in association with Abies sibirica and Betula spp. The mean number of log units (diameter &gt 10 cm at transect mid-line) measured was 36 100
20113212|We review studies relevant for the conservation of plant and animal populations. Conservation biology has mainly been concerned with population sizes when studying the extinction risk of threatened species. This is appropriate for severely threatened populations if combined with demographic sensitivity analysis. However, we argue that conservation biologists must increase their efforts on species which still have relatively large populations, but which are dependent on some natural disturbances. We review important disturbance processes in terrestrial habitats that are important for the survival of numerous species. Conservation action can be more efficient if it is based on deeper insights which disturbances are most important in different biotopes and is initiated before species have declined too much. The consequences of habitat fragmentation for species survival will differ depending upon the earlier predictability of the habitat in space and time. We argue that habitat fragmentation will have the most severe effects for organisms that occur in biotopes that earlier covered large continuous areas characterized by small-scaled natural disturbances. We also point out that ongoing man-made changes may result in that species depending upon earlier common large-scale disturbances and that once were fairly common, may be drastically reduced. This may occur in short time, or with time-lags of more than a century. Thus, a focus on rarity per se implies great risks. We conclude that conservation biologists must increasingly attempt to find suitable indicators (species, species groups, processes, structures) in order to elaborate plans for future conservation. This must also include an awareness of that measures adequate for one species, or organism group, may not be relevant, or even fatal in other cases. Thus, the choice of indicator(s) is often crucial.
20112602|An account is given of the activities of micro-organisms concerned in root decomposition and their importance as components of the soil ecosystem. An attempt is made to show how the decomposition of plant roots is linked to other processes in the soil ecosystem, such as soil structure formation, denitrification and the supply of plant nutrients.
20113153|Weathering rates for the upper 0.5 m soil at 22 coniferous forested sites in SW Sweden have been calculated by two different methods. The significance of sediment mineralogy and of grain-size distributions for these calculations with existing models is discussed. Estimations of long-term weathering rates are based upon depletion of &lt2 mm material. Weathering rates of individual minerals are used by the PROFILE model for calculating total current weathering rates (here using coarse-silt mineralogy). Calcium and Mg minerals are reliably determined for the coarse-silt fraction, as shown by a good correlation between ICP-analyses and calculations from petrographic microscopy for both CaO and MgO contents. Similarities in the geochemistry of coarse silt and &lt2 mm material for the till sites suggest reasonably well defined geochemical conditions for comparing the total weathering rates calculated by the long-term and by the PROFILE methods. The rates calculated by both methods are c. 50-90 meq
20112742|This report presents a methodology for tying together a regional complex of systems of man and nature in a coherent, systematic, and quantitative fashion. As part of this methodology the island of Gotland (Sweden) was modeled as a number of subsectors which contain storages of matter, energy and money, exchanging these quantities with one another and the outside world. In particular, the present study focuses on the flows of energy in the region as a means of tying together processes in both the systems of man and nature, since energy is one measure common to both systems. Also presented are detailed analyses of energy and economic flows for many activities, and, in some instances, an analysis of the historical use of energy. Simulation techniques for trying to predict future impacts on the system are illustrated in terms of a water-nitrogen model.
20112906|The effect of kraft pulp mill effluent and 4,5,6 trichloroguaiacol (3CG) on the net structure of H. angustipennis (Curt.) was studied in laboratory bioassay. There was a significant increase in net anomalies with both the effluent and 3CG. However, two different types of anomalies occurred. Distortion of the net midline occurred in 50 g
20112870|During 1962-64 peat profiles from 13 Norwegian ombrotrophic bogs were sampled. In 1979, samples from the same sites and from 8 additional bogs were obtained. Twelve trace elements were determined in a selection of samples using atomic absorption and neutron activation analyses. The concentrations of the relatively volatile elements, Pb, Cd, As, and Sb appear to be about ten times higher in surface peat from the southernmost part of Norway as compared with certain areas in the far north. At 20 cm depth and more the concentrations are generally substantially lower and the regional differences less pronounced than in surface samples. These observations are consistent with the fact that the south and south-west districts of Norway receive much larger amounts of long-distance transported air pollutants than do the more northerly parts of the country. Similar but less pronounced differences are observed for Zn, while the concentrations of Cr, Cu, Mn, Fe, Co, and Ni do not show any large differences between southern and northern bogs. In the case of Se the results support a previous hypothesis that there exists a natural source of the airborne supply of these elements to soils in addition to the anthropogenic input.
20113173|Models originating from different research fields such as soil science or tree physiology are used to analyse effects of deposition of anthropogenic air pollutants on forests. These different origins have resulted in models with different complexities for similar processes. In this paper, we compare the consequences of process formulations for modelling effects on forest growth and nutrient cycling. The differences in complexities between models lead to different views on the buffer capacity of the ecosystem. We discuss how much complexity is justified and required to be able to address effects of acid deposition.
20113263|Decomposition of coarse woody debris (CWD), be it naturally occurring or resulting from forestry activity, begins long before it hits the ground. Obvious and well-known examples of decay in the standing tree result from heartrots, pathogens leading to root, butt and top rots, and wounding, and are only covered briefly here. Even more common, but as yet less well known, is decay developing from fungal propagules latently present within functional sapwood. These propagules do not develop overtly until the high water content stress obtaining in functional sapwood is reduced (e.g. following drought, root damage, light suppression). Which of the several (many) species/genotypes develop depends on temperature, gaseous and drying regime, and host tree species amongst others. Pioneer communities in sapwood, be it in standing trunks, attached branches, felled timber, or windthrown wood, develop from these fungi which are latently present. If dysfunctional wood remains attached to the tree then these fungi develop forming closed communities which can effect substantial decay. Subsequently secondary colonisers may arrive and continue the decay process, until wood becomes sufficiently weakened and falls to the floor where decay of CWD continues. Decay of felled CWD also begins with fungi which develop from latent propagules though they do not always get the opportunity to establish large domains, as other primary colonizers from outside establish rapidly, and both types of primary colonizers are often relatively rapidly replaced by secondary colonizers. On the forest floor later colonizers can arrive as spores or as mycelium, and effects of these different modes of arrival on community development are discussed. Factors affecting community development and species richness are considered, including interspecific interactions and direct and indirect effect of abiotic variables. The mycelium is emphasised throughout, and dangers of overemphasis on carpophores are highlighted. Decay rate of CWD is commonly approached from an overall process viewpoint, and the effects of abiotic variables on overall decay can be modelled. Ultimately it is the decomposer organisms which effect decay and complex communities can result in extremely heterogeneous decay rates at different spatial and temporal locations within wood. Examples of such differences resulting from presence of different species, interactions between species, and microclimatic variation are presented. Examples are largely taken from temperate angiosperm woodland, but principles are likely to be broadly similar in forests throughout the world, including boreal forests.
20112874|In flooded soils and sediments the mechanism of Fe(III)-reduction has not yet been elucidated completely, although bacteria have been identified as the responsible agents. In model experiments the use of pure iron-reducing bacteria is required, if a distinction between the cause and consequence of their reductive activity on Fe(III)-oxides has to be made. In a nitrogen-free, synthetic glucose-FeO-mineral salt medium (pH 7.1) the onset of Fe(II)-formation and completely reduced conditions were obtained within 2-3 days, both with Bacillus polymyxa (nitrate reductase positive = nit) and Clostridium butyricum (nit). The addition of
20112531|The abundance, biomass and respiratory metabolism were estimated for the individual species, larger taxa and feeding categories of the litter- and soil-inhabiting annelids and arthropods in an abandoned field. The sampling scheme covered one year, and the samplings were allocated in time and space in order to obtain unbiased mean estimates. About 250 species were treated separately, of which the collembolan Tullbergia krausbaueri dominated the abundance and the lumbricid Allolobophora rosea the biomass and respiration. The annual mean abundance of 247 000 (s.e. = 18 000) ind.
20112593|The zoocenosis of natural or near-to-nature ecosystems contains many species of rhizophagous insects. For the first time within IBP populations of rhizophagous Curculionidae have been the centre of some inquiries. Investigations were carried out into the biology, phenology, abundance dynamics and energy turnover of Curculionidae in beech forests (Luzulo-Fagetum) and their frequent replacement plantations of spruce (Picea abies). In total the populations of all rhizophagous Curculionidae assimilated 3510 kcal
20112772|The photosynthetic rates of Sphagnum fuscum and Sphagnum balticum were compared on three occasions during the vegetation period on a subarctic mire in northern Sweden. The mosses were studied in their "natural" microhabitats where each species formed pure stands and in one habitat where they grew in mixture. Both species had the highest photosynthetic rate in late August and Sphagnum balticum always had the higher rate of the two. The limited amount of data precluded the possibility of deriving good dose-response patterns between photosynthesis and the climatic variables. In the natural stand most of the photosynthetic activity (98%) of Sphagnum fuscum was found in the capitulum (the apical rosettes of leaves) but in Sphagnum balticum 40% of the activity was found in the lower parts of the shoot.
20112868|Selenium is found throughout aquatic ecosystems but generally at very low concentrations. However, there are examples of aquatic ecosystems affected by industrial activity that have selenium concentrations at 5-100 times those found in clean areas. Therefore it is conceivable that there could be both inadequate and excessive levels of selenium in aquatic environments. This paper reviews new and published data to show that: 1. selenium is a nutrient for freshwater fish but, at levels observed in the water and food chain, deficiencies are unlikely to occur; 2. dietary selenium is relatively more toxic than waterborne selenium and dietary toxicity to fish is observed at concentrations close to those of food chain organisms; 3. uptake of selenium from the diet appears very efficient and independent of dietary loading, but bioconcentration factors are limited at high dietary loadings by active excretion processes; 4. uptake of selenium from the water appears very efficient at low waterborne concentrations but bioconcentration factors at high waterborne concentrations appear limited by saturation of gill absorption processes. Elimination rates are passive so that bioconcentration factors are a function of uptake rates rather than elimination rates; and 5. the tissue distribution of selenium varies with exposure concentration because the selenium elimination rates of liver tissue decrease as exposure increases. We speculate that waterborne selenium is stored predominantly in the inorganic form whereas dietary selenium may be metabolized and stored as an organic form. As such, it may be more toxic but more easily excreted than selenium taken up from water.
20113312|We analysed occurrence of the Siberian jay Perisoreus infaustus, a site-tenacious resident boreal forest corvid, in relation to the amount of old forest (&gt 100 yr) at landscape and home range scales. Intensity of use of feeding stations was related to the amount of old forest at 50 and 350 ha scales and at the landscape scale. Breeding success of radiotagged jays provided additional data on habitat quality. Visiting frequency of jays at feeding stations (over 5 yr) was significantly higher in the pristine forest landscape than in the managed forest landscape (0.63 vs 0.36), and breeding success data indicated a similar pattern. In the managed forest landscape, proportion of years with groups of jays, observation time in years of individually marked jays and the density of jays were significantly related to the proportion of old forest at the 50 and 350 ha scales. Thus, the proportion of years with groups of jays at feeding stations increased more than 4-fold when the proportion of old forest increased from zero to 100%. Breeding success showed no clear pattern with respect to the amount of old forest at nesting sites in the managed forest landscape.
20112671|The addition of low atmospheric O concentration to a glucose-limited chemostat of Klebsiella pneumoniae supplied with an N-free medium increased the efficiency of N fixation (mg N per g glucose consumed). The increase was probably due to oxidative phosphorylation. Acetylene inhibited the unidirectional hydrogenase in Azotobacter chroococcum. This allowed the demonstration that H is evolved by the ATP-dependent H-evolving activity of nitrogenase in vivo, and provided evidence that the unidirectional hydrogenase functions to recycle reducing power. Such recycling, in part, might explain the greater efficiency of N fixation in obligate aerobes than in facultative or obligate anaerobes.
20112814|Effects of some internal and external factors on the efficiency of ion uptake in young Scots pine seedlings cultivated under laboratory conditions were studied. Tracer-techniques, including the
20112869|Biodegradation of waste oil was studied in a semi-arid region soil at a 16 ha disposal site near the Great Salt Lake, Utah. The oil treated soils were amended with calcium hydroxide, phosphate and urea. Biological oil degradation occurred during seasons with precipitation and at elevated ambient temperatures; 90% of the applied oil (initially added average 7.5% by weight to the surface 10 cm) was degraded in four years. Contents of nitrogen and of certain transition and heavy metals increased in the humic and fulvic acid fractions extracted with Na-pyrophosphate. It was likely that some metabolic products released during oil degradation acted as chelating agents. The area was successfully revegetated, but plants contained elevated concentrations of metals in comparison to plants from control areas. Molybdenum and chromium uptake was inhibited. The results showed that waste oil could be successfully disposed by biodegradation in arid soils, but the reuse of disposal area may be limited by the increased heavy metal availability to plants.
20112661|Diurnal variations in acetylene reduction by natural populations of blue-green algae have been studied in Lake Mendota, Wisconsin. Nitrogenase activities are strongly influenced by photosynthetic rate, vertical migration, species composition, heterocyst concentration and light intensity. The algae generally concentrate near the surface during the early morning hours, and they photosynthesize and fix N at increasing rates until 10 or 11 a.m. As the light intensity increases toward peak midday values, the algae migrate to deeper water, and nitrogen input into the lake via N fixation decreases. Algae remaining at the surface exhibit depressed rates of acetylene reduction and photosynthesis (as measured in situ by O evolution or by incorporation of
20113215|During the past 20 yr a number of studies have been performed on connectivity, most of them in agricultural landscapes but few in forest landscapes. However useful the estimates of connectivity may be, there are considerable practical problems of applying them in conservation with regard to dispersal corridors. Several corridor projects are being planned or are under development, varying in scale from roadsides to parts of continents. Forest landscapes are much more spatially and temporally dynamic than agricultural landscapes, which affects conservation strategies at landscape level. The dispersal ecology of target species is a key issue for connectivity, but lack of knowledge is substantial. The habitat value of linear elements in dynamic forest landscapes may be at least as important as the connectivity value. We provide relevant examples of ecological landscape planning in boreal Sweden, including important concepts like key-habitats, cores, links and stable networks.
20112935|The research strategy is outlined with emphasis on the aspects which distinguish the project from other similar catchment studies. Planned modelling and experimental activities are mentioned.
20112908|The uptake of Cd, Cr(III), Cu, Hg, Pb and Zn in different parts of eelgrass Zostera marina L. and their effect on growth were studied in laboratory experiments. Eelgrass plants were incubated up to 19 d in 0.1, 0.5, 5.0 and 50 M-seawater solutions of the respective metals. In all experiments a rapid increase in tissue concentrations of the metals was recorded. In the 0.1 and 0.5 M-experiments the uptake of Cd and Zn was greatest in the stem+leaves, whereas the uptake of Cu, Hg and Pb was greatest in the roots. The concentrations of the metals in the plant tissue were up to 1850 times the initial concentrations in the water. The uptake capacity by the stem + leaves and rhizomes for the respective metals decreased in the order: Zn  Cu &gt Cd &gt Hg  Pb. In the roots a greater absorption capacity of Hg was recorded. The growth of eelgrass was significantly inhibited by Cd, Cu, Hg and Zn and the toxicity of the metals decreased in the order: Hg  Cu &gt Cd  Zn &gt Cr (III), Pb. In the copper and mercury experiments release of organic compounds to the water was recorded.
20112864|The biosynthesis of coccoliths in Emiliania huxleyi requires the formation of a very complex calcifying apparatus. A special vacuolar system, consisting of a coccolith vesicle in which the coccolith is formed and an associated meshwork of anastomosing canals (the reticular body), is probably derived from the Golgi apparatus. In it a complex acidic polysaccharide is produced that is assumed to play a regulatory role in calcification. Some 3  10
20112729|Three phenoxyacetic acids, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 4-chloro-2-methyl-phenoxyacetic acid (MCPA) and 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T) were tested for their lethal and mutagenic effects on a haploid, DNA-repair-defective strain, RAD 18, of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Their effects are dependent on the pH of the treatment solution; at pH-values below about 4.5 they all induce death and mutation. It is concluded that cells cannot take up the dissociated forms of the compounds. Previous reports are reviewed, taking pH-dependence into account, and the consequences for risk evaluation are discussed.
20112500|The effects of forestry on the vertebrate fauna in Sweden are discussed with regard to types of forestry-wildlife interactions and selection of scientific approaches to the problem. Examples of known or probable effects on some mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians are given. A limited number of mammal and bird species have increased mainly because of increased clear-cut areas. A larger number of birds, a few mammals, two species of reptiles and at least two species of amphibians are unfavourably affected or endangered by forestry mainly as a result of destruction of specific habitats.
20113117|Rice cultivation constitutes a source of numerous atmospheric trace gases including CH, NO, and reduced sulfur compounds. Sufficient information to estimate the source strength of rice cultivation on a global scale is only available for CH. Though these estimates still have a high degree of uncertainty, rice cultivation has been identified as one of the most important individual sources of atmospheric CH. Trace gas emission in rice cultivation is the net result of interconnected microbial processes and plant-microbial interactions. This review summarizes the present knowledge on production, consumption, and transport of atmospheric trace gases in rice paddies. The available field data on the diurnal and seasonal variations, regional differences, and the effect of agricultural practices are discussed on the basis of the biological and physico-chemical processes involved.
20113131|Plant respiration is a large, environmentally sensitive component of the carbon balance for pine ecosystems and can consume &gt60% of the carbon fixed in photosynthesis. If climate, genetics, or carbon allocation affect the balance between assimilation and respiration, respiration will affect net production. Respiration rates for tissues within a tree vary with the number of living cells and their metabolic activity. For pines, foliage and fine roots have similar respiration rates, with rates for seedlings (60 - 420 nmol C
20113103|We have examined the ability of a stagnant film model of gas transfer to and across an air-water interface to predict emissions of ammonia, carbon dioxide and methane from a large, shallow, freshwater pond. The model gives quite different transfer coefficients for the three gases in their air and water phases. The data come from an experiment in which, because of fertilization or gas production from decomposing plant residues, supersaturation of the water with respect to the overlying air occurred for all three gases. Micrometeorological measurements using aerodynamic approaches were used to calculate the atmospheric flux densities of water vapour and the gases. The water vapour density at the surface was inferred from the surface temperature. Wet-trapping was used to measure atmospheric gradients of NH concentration, and knowledge of the water chemistry to calculate aqueous NH concentrations. The CH and CO concentrations in air and water were measured by infrared gas analysis. Transfer coefficients were calculated from the fluxes and the water-air concentration differences, and compared with those predicted by Deacon's model. These comparisons can be summarised as follows: 1) For water vapour, the only transfer coefficient to be considered is that in the air. Deacon's model overestimates atmospheric transfer coefficients by c. 25% in low winds, but this may not be so serious for predicting the exchange of dissolved trace gases where the gas phase is only part of the overall pathway. 2) For NH, c.  of the resistance to transport is in the air, c.  in the water. Again, the model overestimates the fluxes in low winds, presumably because it overestimates transfer coefficients for the gas phase. 3) For CO, almost all resistance to transport resides in the water. In contrast to the micrometeorological investigations of air-sea exchange which have been published so far, our measurements show that Deacon's model would provide a very good description of CO exchange. 4) For CH, most of the transport appears to be by ebullition rather than diffusion, a result deduced in a number of other studies, and Deacon's model would have underestimated the exchange by two orders of magnitude. Some escaping bubbles were  methane.
20112567|Using simple laboratory systems, an attempt was made to assess the importance of selective collembolan (Onychiurus subtenuis Folsom) grazing on the colonization of L. layer leaf litter from a cool temperate deciduous forest by two common litter fungi (a Sterile dark form and a Basidiomycete). The results indicate that relatively low selective grazing rates could have potentially important effects on the growth and competitive colonizing ability of individual fungi. The relation of such a laboratory study to actual field events is only feasible when there is a thorough knowledge of the organisms being used.
20112825|Decomposition of Scots pine needle litters with initially differing levels of the nutrients N, P, K, Ca, S, and Mg, as well as lignin, was studied. The initial levels of N, P, K, and S in the litter were positively correlated. The positive correlation noted between nutrient level and weight loss was restricted to weight losses less than 30%, up to which mainly solubles and some cellulose and hemicellulose were degraded. When the decomposition of lignin started, the weight-loss enhancing effect by nutrients was overrun by the slow decomposition of lignin. Lignin appeared to retard the weight loss of the components cellulose and hemicellulose. The decomposition rate of the lignin fraction was unaffected by the plant nutrient concentrations and its decomposition started sooner in litters with much lignin than in those with little. No lignin appeared to be degraded until it had reached a concentration of about 30%.
20112497|This work deals with the characteristics of anthropogenic factors which have an adverse effect on Siberian forest ecosystems. These factors may be divided into two basic groups: a) those arising from economic activity on the ground of the forest fund and b) those resulting from industrial and agricultural activity and the movements of tourists. This work deals with adverse anthropogenic factors and to what extent they influence the various components of forest ecosystems. Recommendations are put forward for the elimination or limitation of these unfavourable effects. Special attention is paid to the undesirable changes caused by clear-felling, selective felling, fires, and the use of pesticides. The author expresses the hope that with the help of modern techniques in science and forestry it will be possible to bring about a considerable reduction in harmful anthropogenic effects.
20112811|The present investigation describes effects and after-effects of water stress on photosynthesis and transpiration of a 20-year-old tree of Pinus sylvestris L. The tree was exposed to water stress during 1977 by withholding water from May 23 to September 21, when it was rewatered. Photosynthesis, transpiration and soil water potential were continuously measured. Samples for determination of needle water potential were taken intermittently. The pre-dawn needle water potential was reduced from -3.6 bar to -6.6 bar by the water stress treatment. On the day before rewatering the stomata of the stressed tree started to close at a needle water potential of -15 bar, reaching a minimum value of -17.3 bar while the needle water potential of the watered reference tree was never lower than -12 bar. On the first day after rewatering the changes in needle water potential of the stressed tree followed the trend of the reference tree closely, but photosynthesis and transpiration suffered from after-effects of the water stress for another five days.
20112900|Three trophic levels of a freshwater food chain were simulated in a continuous flow system and the transfer of pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB) was followed. The system allowed calculation of a mass balance and was designed primarily to study behaviour of compounds transported via the food. The food chain consisted of the green alga Chlorella pyrenoidosa as the primary producer and invertebrates (Asellus aquaticus, Limnephilus sp.) and fish (Leucaspius delineatus, Perca fluviatilis) as consumer organisms. PCB was continuously introduced into the system via a nutrient solution fed to the algae. A large amount of the added compound was taken up by the algae (41%) and 3.0% was transferred via the algae to the fish. The invertebrates contained 0.8%, the water 1.7% and the air 0.8% while 34.5% of the added compound was recovered from the glass walls, tubings and surface microlayers of the system. The organisms were exposed for 7 d and no metabolites of the parent compound were observed. The results show that algae efficiently remove PCB from water and that invertebrates and fish are capable of accumulating the compound via the food.
20113254|The ability of population viability analyses to contribute to the identification of management issues for small and isolated populations, the setting and evaluation of management goals, as well as the evaluation of management methods, is highlighted through the review of three case-studies of PVAs performed for the Swedish populations of wolf, otter and peregrine falcon using VORTEX. All three populations are under management, and both policy and management methods are contentious issues among stake-holders. Analyses for the wolf have identified the need to manage a population that is large enough to meet viability criteria, and that immigration of unrelated wolves is needed. An otter PVA showed that combatting pollutants and protecting the remaining population nuclei is not enough; the problem of critically small populations in a highly fragmented distribution must also be addressed. Analyses of the reintroduced peregrine falcon population indicated that further releases were not necessary, and that resources instead should be directed towards monitoring. The three case-studies illustrate the application of individual-based models, which allowed a deeper analysis of the effects of inbreeding depression and loss of genetic variation, resulting in qualitatively different management recommendations. The individual-based model also offered the ability to model interactions between stochasticity, genetic processes and a detailed population structure. The impact of PVAs on actual policy and management in Sweden is also assessed. There are problems related to the lack of perceived ownership of PVA results by government agencies, and to the communication of the probabilistic nature of PVAs. A PVA that is performed in isolation from stakeholders and relevant agencies is less likely to be taken into account in management. However, in general the PVA work positively influenced the policy adopted and action taken by agencies, and directed research efforts toward important issues.
20112568|Limnophyes pusillus Eaton, 1875, seems to be a very cosmopolitan species, occurring in Europe, Canary Islands and French subantarctic islands. In Kerguelen it is a very abundant species, especially in wet areas. Population studies have been performed there since 1973. Some ecological aspects are shown: 1) Comparison between European and subantarctic larval morphology. In Kerguelen, L. pusillus is parthenogenetic. 2) The emergence pattern in some vegetal associations. 3) Demographic structure of larval populations. A fourth instar larval stock is always available and able to pupate as soon as the climatic conditions become propitious. 4) An attempt to settle mesologic factors influencing the emergence pattern. The insects seem to react to climatic variations by modifying their occurrence in time.
20112665|Nitrogen fixation studies were made at urban and rural sites along a 32 km stretch of the Leeds-Liverpool canal. In situ acetylene reduction measurements established nitrogenase activity in populations of an epilithic Rivularia species growing on the canal walls and by predominantly heterotrophic bacteria in the sediments. No nitrogen fixation could be attributed to planktonic or epiphytic organisms. Epilithic nitrogen fixation was confined to a relatively narrow band at the water/air interphase and only occurred at relatively unpolluted sites. Seasonal variation in algal nitrogenase activity (maximum 49.5 nmoles CH
20113118|Only few experimental data are available on trace gas emission from ricefields. Methane is the most important greenhouse gas released from ricefields to the atmosphere. Methane emission from ricefields have been estimated to 20% of global methane emission. Major rice systems, soil processes upon flooding, and agronomic practices are described and discussed in view of methane emission. There is a wide scope of mitigation options without sacrificing rice yields, especially through water management, fertilization and rice cultivars. The complex interactions between methane production, oxidation, and emission in ricefields have to be further elucidated before efficient and acceptable mitigating technologies can be developed.
43908646|Increase and decrease of genetic variation have different causes at the gene, locus, and genome levels. The adaptive strategy of a species depends on its genetic resources and on the heterogeneity of its environment. Contradictory hypotheses concerning the relationship between genetic strategies of adaptation and environmental "grain" are discussed and compared with data on genetic variation in various fish species. It is concluded that there is poor agreement between observations and models. For assessment of genetic resources, more information is needed about genetic flexibility, co-adapted gene complexes, and demography of populations.
20113130|Pines are found in environments ranging from warm to cold and moist to dry. In climates without severe frosts, pines can photosynthesize throughout the year, but in cold subalpine regions and at high latitudes they may photosynthesize for less than six months. Given the wide range of conditions in which different pine species can be found, it is remarkable that collectively they possess little variation in their photosynthetic response to irradiance, temperature or plant water deficits. There is too little information to permit similar generalizations in regards to nutritional effects on photosynthesis of pines. Pine species from a wide range of environments also have similar maximum rates of photosynthesis and stomatal conductance under favorable conditions. Given these similarities, difference in canopy carbon gain among pine species can be largely attributed to the length of the frost free period, the amount of intercepted irradiance during that period and the relative availability of other resources such as water and nutrients. Inherent differences in photosynthetic characteristics appear to make little contribution to the large differences in yearly carbon gain evident among the species.
20113342|This paper is a review of different gap studies carried out in the semi-natural Suserup Skov and two managed beech Fagus sylvatica forests in Denmark (gap diameters 18-33 m). The effect of gap formation on N release from litter decomposition and soil mineralization and nitrification, NO-N concentrations in soil solution, and losses of NO-N with seepage water investigated in the different studies showed that differences between the effects observed in Suserup Skov and the managed forests were generally small. Gap formation changed N turnover processes in litter and soil only moderately, but caused a significant increase in concentrations and losses of NO-N in soil solution in the gaps. While the relative increase was similar at all sites, absolute NO-N concentrations and losses were clearly higher in the semi-natural forest than in the two managed forests. This indicates that the N cycle of an unmanaged forest ecosystem is not necessarily closed. Overall, the effect of gap formation on the processes investigated was less pronounced than expected. Root distribution, regeneration, forest structure, and soil-related factors were suggested to modify the impact of the canopy opening.
20112510|The northern countries have traditionally produced woody material of high quality, and the production of large amounts of low-quality wood by the coppice method and short rotation time has not been common. During the past few years there has been increasingly great interest in Finland in the possibilities that short rotation forestry may offer. Organized studies have been carried out in 1973-1975 under the leadership of SITRA, the Finnish National Fund for Research and Development. At the moment, extensive research on an industrial scale is already being carried out by the pulp industries, etc. Development of harvesting methods, using "bush harvesting" is also in progress. The first biological short term rotation experiments were established on old agricultural land in May 1975 by the Finnish Forest Research Institute. 13 tree species or cultivations are included in the experiments, totalling 30,000 plants at seven planting densities.
20113232|The caribou, (and reindeer), Rangifer tarandus, and the muskox, Ovibos moschatus, are the only two ungulate species adapted to life in the high Arctic. In the high Arctic, however, caribou and reindeer live close to the limits of their ability to adapt to the extreme conditions present there, and their populations are characterized by wide fluctuations in numbers, often culminating in local extirpation. The extremely efficient locomotive ability of caribou has enabled them to become established, during at least some portions of the Holocene, on virtually all of the high arctic islands, as well as the insular-like ice-free portions of Greenland. Their often transitory presence in these extreme habitats appears tied to past periods of climate change as well as short term climatic extremes. Of critical importance to the establishment and persistence of populations of caribou in these marginal habitats at such high latitudes has been the absence or low density of predators, including humans, and reduction or absence of the physiological stresses of insect parasitism and harassment common at lower latitudes. If the current patterns of global climate change continue, with greatest changes occurring in the Arctic, caribou in the high Arctic can be expected to respond through major distributional and population changes in relation to the regional variations that characterize arctic climate. The indirect effect of climate change in the high Arctic on caribou through its influence on the quantity and quality of plant material as forage may be substantial. Plant growth will be influenced by changes in heat, moisture, and available soil nutrients during the summer, however, there will be wide regional differences in the direction and magnitude of these influences. Increases in atmospheric CO, and ultraviolet-B radiation will also influence plant growth and forage quality in ways that are only partially understood.
20113308|Pine heath forests on sandy sediments occur as "biotope islands" all over Fennoscandia. An important component of the biodiversity within such pine heaths is early successional species restricted to open patches with sparsely vegetated sand. Surveys of the endangered sand lizard Lacerta agilis on a regional scale in south-central Sweden showed that populated pine heaths were significantly larger (median area 65 km) than those where the species was absent (median area 5 km). No effect of pine heath isolation was found. Moreover, on a landscape scale, occupied habitat patches within individual pine heaths were significantly larger than patches where the sand lizard had recently gone extinct. Patch isolation had no significant effect. Furthermore, an analysis of presence/absence of ground-nesting spider wasps (Hymenoptera: Pompilidae) on sandy pine heaths of different size showed that species composition was significantly nested. The highest diversity, of all species and red-listed ones, was found on the largest pine heaths, in sympatry with the sand lizard. It is argued that only the largest sandy pine heaths have provided historical continuity of suitable early successional habitat patches with exposed sand for the most dispersal-limited species. Because of forest fire suppression and afforestation since the beginning of the 20th century, many early successional species in sandy pine heath forests are now threatened due to loss of such patches. To provide habitat for these species, measures to re-create early successional patches must be taken. The sand lizard can be used as a cross-taxonomic umbrella species for red-listed spider wasps and other early successional species. However, to preserve the existing threatened biodiversity within a given pine heath (including the many pine heaths where the sand lizard is absent), a strategy of multiple umbrella species and demarcation of patches with key habitat components is needed.
20112683|Peltigera aphthosa (L.) Willd. and P. aphthosa var. leucophlebia Nyl. from Spitzbergen (Svalbard), N Alaska, N Finland, S Finland and Manitoba, representing arctic, subarctic and boreal forest zones, were exposed to laboratory experiments in order to study the responses of N fixation to temperature. The temperature response curves of all these strains had the following characteristics. The "low temperature side" of the curve was concave and the activity was very low even at +5C in all the specimens. The maximum activity was measured between the temperature range of 20C to 25C. P. aphthosa var. leucophlebia showed a lower activity but the response to temperature was alike in the two taxa compared. When the temperature response curves in specimens from different latitudes and vegetation zones were compared in the same season, no adaptations of N fixation to temperature were found. The results are in accordance with earlier experiments with other lichens.
20112664|Nitrogen-fixing blue-green algae may be divided into three groups according to the short term effect of various chelating agents on their ability to reduce acetylene. These groups are: 1. those algae which are unaffected by chelating agents 2. those algae whose acetylene reduction is inhibited by chelators, this inhibition being reversed by Ca, Mg, Sr and Ba, and 3. those algae whose acetylene reduction is inhibited by chelators and reversed only by Ca. Of this last group there appears to be only one example, Gloeocapsa, and this specific requirement for calcium in order to fix nitrogen may be related to the widespread distribution of this organism on limestone cliffs. Furthermore, the natural chelating agents present in soil may influence the distribution of many nitrogen-fixing blue-green algae.
20112898|The use of compartment models to describe the distribution and cycling of pollutants in ecosystems is reviwed. Transport and distribution between the emission source and the ecosystem is not considered, only what happens when a given amount of pollutant enters the ecosystem. Both deterministic and stochastic models are presented, with a discussion of their respective merits. An example is also given of the distribution of a pollutant inside a soil compartment.
20113282|Forestry and the conservation agencies need a tool to evaluate the effects of controlled burning on fire-dependent organisms, because a major goal with this measure is to favour such species. Fire-dependent insects are difficult to monitor due to their ephemeral appearance and variable biology. Therefore it would be valuable to find some other ways of measuring the diversity of fire-dependent insects in a burned area. In central Sweden the proportion of deciduous trees infested with the ascomycete fungus Daldinia loculata is a good substitute because it correlates significantly with the number of species of fire-dependent insects found with intensive sampling one year after fire. The correlation was weaker when the insects were caught the burning year. The fruiting bodies of D. loculata are conspicuous and persistent so the species can be easily monitored all year round and several years after the fire. Possible mechanisms for the positive correlation between fire-dependent insects and the fungus could be: 1) that both depend on the regional forest history; 2) several insect species develop on the fungus; and, 3) the formation of fruiting bodies is enhanced by insect activity.
20113233|Studies of the ecology of northern ruminants in winter are confounded by the difficulty of partitioning weight loss between the effects of reduced food intake resulting from voluntary inappetence on one hand and true inanition on the other. This paper describes a situation in which female reindeer grazing natural mountain pastures in northern Norway all lost weight in winter but this weight loss was not attributable to under-nutrition. A field study showed that 75% of the total drop in live body mass (LBM) between September and March occurred before the end of October, well before the access to forage became restricted by snow. Data from feeding trials were used to develop an hypothesis that the rapid loss of weight early in winter was principally due to a reduction in the amount of digesta in the gut reflecting, in turn, the onset of winter inappetence. The predictions of the hypothesis were tested in a second field study involving the serial slaughter at intervals throughout winter of a group of 36 known-age female reindeer in a free-living herd. The mass of digesta in the gastrointestinal tract declined significantly across winter as predicted and, together with a reduction in the mass of blood and the viscera, accounted for almost 60% of the total weight loss during winter. In contrast, there was no significant variation in the carcass mass of the animals between September and March. The observations described in this study do not refute the obvious and well documented fact that some northern ruminants go hungry in some winters, often because of reduced availability of forage resulting from hard or deep snow, but they illustrate how both measuring growth in terms of LBM and the concept of "maintenance" can be badly misleading in these species.
20113229|The present understanding of the impact of increased UV-B radiation, resulting from stratospheric ozone depletion, on natural insect populations is scarce, and responses of vegetation to environmental change can often only be interpreted when animal impacts on vegetation are understood. The present study reviews the information available on invertebrate responses to UV-B within a construct of a holistic conceptual framework for understanding responses of ecosystems in which invertebrates are important. The study also presents findings of a holistic experimental study on moth caterpillar species important in the north of Fennoscandia. A choice chamber experiment showed that larvae were attracted to UV-B and it was hypothesised that physiological/anatomical protection from UV-B would be required. Cuticles of three species (Epirrita autumnata, Operophtera brumata and Zygaena exulans) showed very different abilities to transmit UV-B and longer wavelength radiation. Epirrita autumnata and O. brumata showed significant responses to a pre-treatment with UV-B which resulted in less UV-B radiation penetrating through the cuticle of E. autumnata, but the opposite effect in O. brumata. Indirect responses to enhanced UV-B radiation mediated through herbivory of the mountain birch did not achieve significance in the performance of the animal -- survival, fecundity, growth -- although all measures of performance were reduced under enhanced UV-B. Larvae eating birch leaves which had been irradiated with elevated UV-B are three times the area of leaves eaten in the controls. Enhanced UV-B radiation might interact with climatic warming to exacerbate defoliation events caused by E. autumnata in the Fennoscandian North.
20112767|Principal components analysis (PCA) ordination based on a R-matrix of the Pearson correlation coefficient was used to study the distribution of plant species and plant communities in relation to some environmental variables in a subarctic mire in the Tornetrsk area, North Sweden. The coordinates of 72 observation units, each measuring 4 m (the component scores) on the first two principal axes, accounting for 33% of the total variance, were plotted against species frequencies, water content of peat, slope of surface, depth to permafrost and temperature at 10-cm depth. Although data were sampled during two separate vegetation periods, trends of the environmental variables as well as those of vegetation were quite evident in the PCA ordination. No pronounced curvilinearity was shown. Axis 1 was clearly correlated with the vegetation gradient hummock--mud-bottom, and axis 2--although slightly--with the mire margin--expanse gradient. Possible explanations of the distribution and performance of plants are discussed.
20112826|Differences in the composition of various groups of lipophilic extractives, low-molecular carbohydrates, cyclitols, phenolic glycosides, polysaccharides, lignin, ash and crude protein in green needles and brown needle litter from the same stand of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) were studied. There was a great drop of sugars, steryl esters and triglycerides going from green to brown needles on the tree. Some isoprenoid alcohols, sterols and some acids as well as lignin belong to the components that changed least. Tests were made on extracts for inhibition of growth of fungal strains isolated from the same site as the needles. The most commonly found strains in the litter layer were not inhibited whereas some strains frequently isolated at other sites, but uncommon at the present, were strongly inhibited.
20112991|The presence of weeds on arable land is the first step in a succession of plant communities that, if undisturbed, will result in a vegetation in equilibrium with the prevalent climatic and soil conditions. World-wide, more than 200 species are considered important weeds eighty of which are classified as primary weeds that interfere with man's ability to grow crops. The maintenance of diversity of weed floras is dependent upon the soil seed bank that will tend to offset the effects of environmental changes brought about by man. Weeds, increasing the diversity of agricultural ecosystems, can both be a nuisance during the crop growing period and a blessing at other times by preventing soil erosion and providing valuable diet for livestock. Today, the rate of naturalization of alien weeds is just as high as or even higher than in the past despite improvements in seed cleaning methods and quarantine regulations. This poses new challenges to our ability to develop integrated weed management systems.
20112944|Simulation models are important working tools for elucidating the extent to which atmospheric deposition contributes to the acidification of lakes and streams. The "Birkenes" model, which is used in this paper, is an empirical two-reservoir model, which from meteorological data and atmospheric sulphur and chloride inputs simulates the concentrations and mass transports of major ions in the streamwater of a forested catchment. Hydrological and chemical parameters are largely deduced from streamwater characteristics. The cornerstones in the model are thus the mass balances of water, sulphate ions and chloride ions. Base cations (
20113230|Concern about ozone depletion and consequent increases in UV-B radiation have spawned several questions about the potential impacts on plant production, chemistry and implications to herbivory. This manuscript provides a concise overview on the latter subject, high-lighting observed direct and indirect impacts on plant-herbivore relationships. Direct effects discussed, include impacts on animal/insect percepetion of leaves and flowers through altered UV reflectance. Indirect effects include responses mediated via alterations in leaf quality/chemistry, also deterrent and attractant responses by UV-B induction of odourous volatile compounds. However, the main emphasis is placed upon UV-B induced changes in secondary metabolite chemistry and structural material which are pivotal to herbivore responses. Herbivore behaviour is discussed in the context of influences on tissue palatability, consumption and digestibility. Post-herbivory vegetative responses are also discussed, providing examples of the re-growth and regeneration of natural communities at enhanced UV-B.
20112713|On July 10, 1976, in Seveso, Italy, an explosion in the ICMESA chemical plant released a toxic cloud, which ten days later was found to have contaminated the surrounding environment with TCDD. Mapping of the contaminated area led to the outlining of two zones: zone A, in which contamination was evaluated at 2-3 kg over 115 hectares, and zone B, in which 20 g were distributed in a long, narrow corridor. Attempts to decompose the TCDD were made by spraying an oil emulsion on the contaminated vegetation; however, TCDD not decomposed by radiation was washed into the soil by rainfall. It was thus considered preferable to eliminate the vegetation. Attempts were made to find microorganisms capable of degrading TCDD in soil and organic substances which could stimulate the growth of naturally present microbibial flora. No positive results were obtained. Incineration seems to offer the safest method for complete destruction of TCDD, and it has been proposed to scrape the surface of the soil and burn it in incinerators at temperatures of 800-1000C.
20112959|Acidification is supposed to reduce decomposition rate of organic matter in aquatic environments. The aim of this pilot study was to investigate decomposition of leaf litter in acid lakes. Alder leaves placed in net trays (mesh size 9 mm) were exposed during November-May in the littoral zone of four lakes with different pH and the dry weight loss was measured. To separate the effects of microbial decomposition and invertebrate fragmentation, laboratory experiments were performed in microcosms. Weight loss of leaves exposed in situ for six months was quite different in the four lakes studied, ranging from 20% in acid Lake Grdsjn (pH 4.6) to 90% in limed Lake Hgsjn (pH 6.5). In microcosms without detritivores the weight losses were of similar magnitude (30-38%) and not correlated to pH. Liming of acid microcosms did not significantly increase the decomposition rate. However, addition of detritivorous Asellus increased the weight loss in both acid and limed microcosms. Fragmentation by detritivores was evident in both in situ and microcosm studies. It is concluded that decomposition rate of leaf litter in acid lakes is more related to density of detritivores than directly to acidity.
20112784|Biological control, encompassing the use of predators and parasites, resistance to pests, genetics, and pheromones, is one of many technologies used for managing pest populations. As with all control methods, biological controls offer many benefits but also pose environmental risks. The review is focused on some of the known environmental risks associated with the use of mammals, birds, amphibians, insects, mites, protozoans, nematodes, bacteria, fungi, viruses, pheromones, genetics, and host plant resistance as biological control agents. Past attempts at utilizing vertebrates for biological control have given rise to some environmental problems. The employment of insects and mites for biological control is associated with the risk of environmental problems. More fundamental knowledge is needed for selecting the most appropriate biological control agent in any particular case. Biological control using microorganisms has not resulted in any known environmental problem. In part, this may be because of the limited use of microorganisms for this purpose. Host plant resistance seems to have many advantages as a biocontrol technique, no environmental problems having so far developed following its use. Recent research suggests, however, that both nutrient content and toxic levels could be altered significantly during the plant breeding programme. The genetic techniques in use pose few environmental risks except for the development of resistance. Sex attractants employed for insect control are not without environmental risk. Although this type of biological control has only limited experimental use, the development of resistance to attractants by the target pest appears to be the major limitation on its use. The ultimate success of biological controls will depend on a proper understanding of all the interacting forces of the ecosystem in which they are expected to operate.
20113319|We present a system for field measurement of compositional, structural and functional forest biodiversity indicators at the scale of stands suitable for use in adaptive management. To evaluate the practical usefulness of the indicators we collected data on 21 groups of basic variables in five European case study landscapes representing hemiboreal, mountain and lowland temperate forests. The stand scale survey sites were stratified with respect to the land use history both within and among case studies. As a measurement of the cost for monitoring all the variables in one management unit we estimated that a total of 23-43 person-days were needed, divided into planning (ca 9%), data collection (ca 70%), data management (ca 15%) and analysis (ca 6%). We present a sub-set of results focussing on the occurrence of three compositional (specialised pendulous lichen thalli &gt20 cm, trees with &gt80 cm DBH, lying and standing dead wood), structural ("special" trees, proportion of deciduous trees and old forest) and functional (uprooted trees, wood-decaying bracket fungi, browsing) indicators of biodiversity. In general the indicators reflected the trends in the history of forest and land use both within and among the five case studies. Two of the indicators stand out as particularly interesting at the Pan-European scale. These are the amount of dead wood and the frequency of occurrence of uprooted trees. "Special" trees, old forest and wood-decaying bracket fungi also performed well, but not always with the same direct relationship to land use history. Trees with &gt80 cm DBH showed mixed results. Browsing, by contrast, appeared to be related to more subtle changes at the regional scale such as the extirpation of large carnivores and other factors that maintain a high density of large browsing herbivores. Finally, the specialised species indicator and the proportion of deciduous trees appeared to indicate the local, but not the regional situation. Together with ecologically founded performance targets for different indicators of the elements of biodiversity, monitoring results could be used to evaluate the extent to which biodiversity policies are implemented in actual landscapes.
20112788|The Centre for Overseas Pest Research has completed four years' research on the nuclear polyhedrosis viruses of Spodoptera littoralis, Spodoptera exempta, and Heliothis armigera in collaboration with the Unit of Invertebrate Virology, Oxford. Purification, characterization, safety testing, and biological testing have been carried out, most effort having been concentrated on S. littoralis virus. The properties determined are outlined. S. littoralis virus was subjected to small-scale field testing in 1977 and 1978. The work on this virus is now expanding with a project in Egypt and with increasing involvement by other research organizations, including industry. Although the three viruses have similar properties, the approach to research and the eventual use to which each virus is put will be different and will be related to the ecology of the pest and the agricultural system in which it occurs.
20113246|This paper presents a review of demographically structured (or, frequency-based) models, in which the individuals in a population are grouped into distinct classes. Structured models are used when vital rates (survival, reproduction, dispersal) of individuals depend on their age or physiological/morphological stage. Variation in these rates (environmental stochasticity) and the effect of abundance (density dependence) are important factors that determine population viability. Metapopulation models are built by adding information about spatial structure (number of populations, and the location, size, shape, and quality of habitat patches they inhabit). At the metapopulation level, the similarity of environmental fluctuations (correlation) and dispersal among patches become important variables determining viability. These modeling methods can be combined with habitat analyses that link landscape data with metapopulation models.
20112596|The distribution of plant roots and nematodes was investigated in a 15-20 year old Scots pine stand (Pinus sylvestris L.). The root biomasses and necromasses in the uppermost 10cm of the soil profile ranged from 350 to 420 g dw
20113343|There is currently little knowledge of the potential for carbon (C) storage in temperate beech forests. Beech forest reserves subject to little or no human intervention may serve as benchmark forests to determine this potential. We estimated the C stock and the distribution of the C stock between tree biomass, dead wood, forest floor and mineral soil in a part of Suserup Skov where all phases of the natural forest cycle were represented. The total C stock of the forest was 382 Mg
20113237|Waders (shorebirds) form a significant part of the arctic bird fauna. The potential effects of global change on the breeding and migrations of arctic waders are discussed. It is assumed that the arctic climate in summer will become warmer, rainier (although with more dry days), somewhat windier and possibly cloudier, with dryer soil and less snow that at present, with the added effects of high UV-B radiation, increased availability of atmospheric CO, and rising sea levels. Whereas temperature, wind, solar radiation and precipitation may affect individual waders directly, indirect effects through habitat loss and changing food abundance may be more important. The position and quality of important near-arctic spring stopover sites, and wind conditions along the migration route, are likely to change. The impact of such changes will depend on the magnitude of the changes and the birds' ability to track them. In a short-term perspective, a warmer climate may have mainly positive effects on the reproductive success of arctic-breeding waders. The abundance of insects at the breeding grounds will probably increase, although indirect effects of global change on the insects, via their food plants, are difficult to predict. The effects of increasing UV-B radiation on waders are largely unknown. In a long-term perspective, there is a serious threat to the wader species and populations that breed in the high Arctic. Much of their preferred breeding habitat may disappear when vegetation zones move northwards and crucial coastal stopover sites are threatened by human activities. To correctly interpret ongoing changes, and to be able to predict future impact of global change on arctic-breeding waders, it is necessary to assess historical changes in the arctic environment and their impact on wader populations, to improve our knowledge of wader ecology, and to monitor temporal, spatial and numerical variation in wader abundance.
20113115|Large pulses of emissions of NO and NO have been observed following wetting of dry soil. Ecosystems that experience prolonged dry seasons cover over 28 mill. km, suggesting that pulses of soil emissions early in the wet season at these sites warrant consideration in regional and global budgets of NO and NO. Most studies have shown that the magnitude of pulses diminishes with successive wetting events. Soil inorganic-N was also readily available at the time of first wetting in each of the ecosystems studied. Pulses of NO usually exceeded pulses of NO. Nitrifier denitrification appears to be the dominant source of NO when soil moisture does not exceed field capacity. Nitrification or a combination of NO production via nitrification and abiological reactions involving NO is the dominant source of NO. Death of microbial biomass (with subsequent release of readily available N and C following wetting) and accumulation of soil NO during droughts probably contribute to pulses of NO and NO production following wetting. Where post-wetting pulses have been compared to annual flux budgets, pulses of NO appear insignificant, whereas pulses of NO appear important.
20112676|Dinitrogen fixation was quantified in a mixed deciduous forest ecosystem at the Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory, North Carolina, United States. Rates and annual amounts of nitrogen fixation were measured for several components (phyllosphere, bole, woody and leaf litter, and soil) of a mature oak-hickory forest. Highest rates were observed in the soil (8.53 kg N fixed
20112579|One of the most important roles of invertebrates in temperate forest ecosystems is the regulation of wood mineralization. Mediated by arthropods and annelid colonization, wood serves alternately as nutrient sink and source, temporally and spatially. Regulation of wood mineralization proceeds via four mechanisms: (1) translocation of nutrients from distant feeding sites and subsequent defecation in wood; (2) passive translocation of microbial cells and spores into wood channels; (3) regulation of microbial assemblage succession, catabolism rates, and nitrogen fixation rates at microsites within channels; and (4) increased cation and anion exchange capacity of wood which results in increased probability of nutrient interception and decreased probability of nutrient loss even during storm events.
20112865|Increased combustion of fossil fuels and an accelerated exploitation of terrestrial ecosystems have increased the atmospheric CO concentration by over 20 ppm during the last decades. Replacement of virgin forests with intensively managed forests with fertilization, earlier cuttings, etc., in boreal and temperate areas can result in a net release of CO to the atmosphere of up to 123  10 Tg C. Utilization of logging slash as fuel also in industrialized countries results in a decreased input of organic matter to the soil and thus decreases the pool of long-term accumulated soil organic carbon. Soil probably acts as one of the most significant sinks for organic carbon in terrestrial ecosystems. Increased exploitation of peatlands may have significant effects on the carbon cycle. Burning of peat as fuel in an increasing number of countries rapidly releases the organic carbon accumulated in the peat layers. Accumulation of organic carbon in urban ecosystems may be of much more importance than has been realized before. New estimates of pools and man-made fluxes of carbon in these areas are presented. In addition to accumulation of organic carbon in the oceans, many of the processes in terrestrial ecosystems, like peat accumulation and formation of soil organic matter, act as feedback mechanisms for increased atmospheric CO concentrations.
20113330|The maintenance of biodiversity is one of several internationally recognised objectives of forest management. Empirical evidence from Europe suggests that forest management is responsible for the loss of biodiversity and that the extent of the loss is a function of the amount, duration, and intensity of resource extraction. The pattern of biodiversity impoverishment as a function of habitat alteration is not always linear, but rather it is likely to exhibit thresholds beyond which the long-term maintenance of the elements of biodiversity is threatened. Such thresholds could be used for establishing conservation targets in forest management. We present a general procedure for identifying multiple thresholds to be used in the determination of conservation targets in forests. We suggest a six-step procedure: 1) Stratify the forests into broad cover types as a function of their natural disturbance regimes. 2) Describe the historical spread of different anthropogenic impacts in the boreal forest that moved the system away from naturalness. 3) Identify appropriate response variables (e.g. focal species, functional groups or ecosystem processes) that are affected by habitat loss and fragmentation. 4) For each forest type identified in step 1, combine steps 2 and 3 to look for the presence of non-linear responses and to identify zones of risk and uncertainty. 5) Identify the "currencies" (i.e. species, habitats, and processes) which are both relevant and possible to communicate to stakeholders. 6) Combine information from different indicators selected. A review of the historical development of forest use in eight boreal case studies illustrates the need for international collaboration to follow this procedure. To put this procedure into action and to design management applications, we suggest the development of an international network of adaptive management teams consisting of managers, policy-makers, and scientists. This network should be charged with testing different approaches to the management of forests that will ensure that biodiversity is restored in areas where it has been lost and maintained where forestry intensification has yet to occur.
20112668|Ninety-five soil samples were collected from different localities and subjected to physical, chemical and bacteriological analyses. The soils were classified on the basis of their salt content and pH into four main groups: non-saline, slightly alkaline; saline-slightly alkaline; saline-alkaline; and non-saline alkaline soils. Results showed that the total numbers of bacteria as well as Azotobacter densities varied markedly in different soils. Non-saline slightly alkaline soils contained the highest densities. Saline-alkaline soils harboured the lowest densities. Azotobacter was absent in 14 soils containing 5.0-6.7% total soluble salts (T.S.S.), while high densities were recorded in less saline soils (T.S.S. 0.7-3.5%), when a medium having a salt concentration of 0.2-0.7% was used. 186 isolates were identified as Azotobacter chroococcus. Twenty-six strains were taken at random for physiological studies. All isolates were able to grow at a NaCl concentration of 0.8%. Isolates from non-saline and slightly saline soils grew in the range of 0.8-2.5%). moderately saline in the range of 0.8-3%, and strongly saline in the range of 0.8-4.5% NaCl (saline-alkaline 0.8-3.5%). Thus strains from saline soils were more salt tolerant than those of moderately or slightly saline soils. The pH range for growth and N-fixation of Azotobacter was generally found to lie between 6.5-9.5. Maximum values for N-fixation were obtained at concentrations of 0.05, 0.05, 0.8, 0.1 and 0.1% NaCl with strains isolated from slightly saline, moderately saline, strongly saline, saline-alkaline, and non-saline alkaline soils respectively. The efficiency values for N-fixation (determined as mg N fixed/g carbon consumed) were 28.5, 16.9, 15.3, 20.1 and 21.9 for the various isolates in the respective order. The highest nitrogen fixation efficiency (36.9 mg N/g C consumed) was recorded for a strain derived from a non-saline slightly alkaline soil. Increase in salt concentration resulted in a progressive decrease in the N-fixation capacity of the non-saline isolates, while the efficiency of the saline isolates increased with increasing NaCl concentrations up to 0.8%.
20113224|Most taxonomic groups show a distinct and well-known pattern that species richness decreases from lower to higher latitudes, i.e. from tropics to polar regions. The reasons for this pattern are thought to be related to the amount of energy available, but the exact mechanisms involved in how availability of energy is translated to higher species diversity are not usually known. Some specific groups of animals and plants, however, show a clear exception to the general patterns so that the number of species actually increases towards the north. These groups might provide us with an alternative explanation for the general ecological pattern and these groups are also important when analysing the priority groups for biodiversity conservation in boreal and arctic areas. I will present and discuss the patterns and possible reasons for two exceptional groups: birds breeding on northern peatlands and sawflies in boreal and arctic areas. It turns out that in some groups amount of available habitat and/or its heterogeneity may override the importance of any large-scale impacts on species diversity. Taxonomic groups showing a peak in species richness at northern latitudes should deserve special attention when analysing possible effects of global changes -- like climatic warming -- on these ecosystems.
20113265|The coarse woody debris (CWD) profile is presented as a new concept to summarise the quantitative and qualitative composition of dead lying wood at the stand level. Depending on the local productivity and climatic zone, the CWD profile can facilitate forest history interpretation for at least the recent 200-500 yr. Different CWD patterns may be derived from the CWD profile to differentiate between typical forest states resulting from different historical developments. It is demonstrated that various CWD patterns can occur in all development stages (age classes) of the current forest stand. Furthermore, it is demonstrated that these CWD patterns are significant predictors of species diversity of wood-inhabiting fungi in addition to traditional stand parameters and simplistic measurements of total volume of dead wood. The paper also outlines possibilities for modelling dead wood dynamics at the stand level.
20112735|In Swedish forestry phenoxy acids are used for chemical brush control. Roughly one third or less of the total annually reforested area will be treated each year in order to favour the growth of young conifers by reducing the competition from brush and to regulate the composition of the future tree layer to the advantage of conifers. The above-ground biomass of the brush is normally reduced to 50-95% after treatment. A certain number of stems survive, and some regeneration by sprouting or development of suckers occurs. Despite treatment, some individuals per hectare of the broad-leaved tree species are normally able to become trees. The varying tolerance among the species as well as interception of herbicide in the uppermost shrub layer might cause changes in the composition of the surviving and regenerating broad-leaved vegetation. The ground vegetation is unintentionally reached by only a small proportion of the applied dose, normally considerably less than 50%. The variation in herbicide coverage of the forest floor within sprayed reforestation areas is great. Grasses generally increase temporarily, often to a great degree, while the biomass of herbs and dwarf shrubs is reduced after spraying. Regeneration of dwarf shrubs is slow in areas that have received a high dose. Single plant species probably seldom disappear from a reforestation area after spraying, but this might sometimes be the case. The vegetation changes after mechanical cleaning are generally much smaller than those after chemical brush control. Some recommendations for ways of minimizing unintentional damage to the forest vegetation are given, and the significance of changes to animal habitats following herbicide spraying is discussed.
20113304|We describe the frequency of occurrence of natural disturbances (fire, snow and wind damage, insects) and the volume of large trees, deciduous trees, snags and coarse woody debris (CWD) in an area with a short (ca 50 yr) forest management history. On average signs of natural disturbance events were observed on 94% of the surveyed field plots. The frequency of occurrence of fire signs (scars, burnt stumps) varied from 8% in the young stands to 32% in the mature and over-mature stands, and 89% of plots had uprooted and broken trees (signs of snow and wind damage). Trees infested with bark beetles were found in 0.6% of the middle-aged stands, 1.0% of the maturing stands, and 3.0% of the mature and over-mature stands. The proportion of deciduous trees in the stands changed during the course of succession after stand-replacing disturbance from 70% in young stands to 50% in mature and over-mature stands. The basal area of trees with a diameter of &gt 30 cm varied from 0 to 24, reaching a maximum in aspendominated stands. The average volume of CWD changed over time from 21 m
20112503|Effects of acid precipitation on forest and fish are studied in a nationwide Norwegian research project. Studies on the effects on forest were initiated by comparing past diameter growth between regions with different deposition of acid and between sites supposed to differ in sensitivity to acidification. So far no effect of acid precipitation on diameter growth has been found. Studies on throughfall water indicate that a considerable part of the throughfall enrichment is derived from dry deposition. Application during two growing seasons of 50 mm
20113181|A combination of measurements, empirical relations and a four-layer model based on the Penman-Monteith equation has been used to determine the evapotranspiration, on a continuous basis, from a mountain birch forest, of medium density, in the Abisko area (6821N, 1849E), during the 1988 vegetation seasons. The total latent and sensible heat fluxes from the birch forest are 49% and 45%, respectively, of the net radiation, which, summed over the period with birch foliage, amounts to c. 600 MJ
20113245|Population viability analysis (PVA) is a collection of methods for evaluating the threats faced by populations of species, their risks of extinction or decline, and their chances for recovery, based on species-specific data and models. Compared to other alternatives for making conservation decisions, PVA provides a rigorous methodology that can use different types of data, a way to incorporate uncertainties and natural variabilities, and products or predictions that are relevant to conservation goals. The disadvantages of PVA include its single-species focus and requirements for data that may not be available for many species. PVAs are most useful when they address a specific question involving a focal (e.g., threatened, indicator, sensitive, or umbrella) species, when their level of detail is consistent with the available data, and when they focus on relative (i.e., comparative) rather than absolute results, and risks of decline rather than extinction. This overview provides guidelines for choosing a PVA model among three categories, from data-intensive individual-based population models to simple occupancy metapopulation models.
20113223|Here, I analyse the native, terrestrial mammals of Europe (142 native species) in relation to their occurrence in the different biomes. More specifically, I asked the following questions: 1) are there differences in numbers of species and species composition between the biomes of Europe? 2) Do body mass and feeding type differ between the biomes? 3) Do the proportion of "biome specialists" differs between the biomes? 4) Can the degree of "biome specialisation" be explained through differences in taxonomy, body mass and feeding type? Further, I evaluate the possibilities of using this information for prediction of future responses of the mammalian fauna to climate change and large scale changes in land use. The number of species is highest in the deciduous biome, with decreasing numbers of species in the coniferous, grassland, alpine, tundra, and desert. Based on the area of the biomes only, deserts have fewer species than expected while the coniferous forests, the alpine biome and the tundra have more or less the expected species richness, and grasslands and deciduous forests have more species than expected. The body mass of the mammal species did not differ statistically between biomes. However, the median value for body mass is largest for species in desert, followed by tundra, alpine, coniferous, grassland, and deciduous. There is a statistically significant difference in the frequencies of feeding types between the biomes. In the tundra and desert, herbivores and carnivores were the two most frequent groups, while in the alpine insectivores dominated. In the deciduous and coniferous biomes, herbivores and insectivores were the most frequent feeding types. Forty-four species (31% of the total species pool) are "biome specialists" and occur in one biome only. The deciduous biome contains the largest amount of "biotope specialists" in absolute and relative terms, followed by the coniferous, tundra and grassland. No "biome specialist" occurred in the desert or alpine biomes.
20113322|The boreal forest is being impacted by human activity, primarily forestry and oil and gas exploration. The goal of this review is to provide an overview of the role that Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and satellite remote sensing play in monitoring boreal ecosystems, and to review some of the current issues being studied in the boreal region using these technologies. We find that investigation into the dynamics of land-use and land-cover change is greatly enhanced through the use of GIS and remote sensing. GIS offers the capacity for integrating spatial data of different types, including both raster and vector data models. GIS also allows for the analysis of landscape structure and response to habitat loss and fragmentation. This capacity will be crucial to monitoring the impacts of forestry and other industry in the boreal forests as the degree of disturbance increases, and to planning long-term sustainable use of the forest. Remote sensing is the only feasible method for the acquisition of land-cover data over large areas, and is well suited to regional mapping of land-cover and land-cover change detection. Vegetation indices derived from satellite imagery are useful for characterization of forest biophysical properties. There are certain limitations to these technologies however. Due to the susceptibility of spatial data manipulation to error propagation, there is need for increased focus on sensitivity analysis. The utility of data sets derived from remote sensing is limited by the spatial and spectral resolution of currently available sensors. The capacity to gather information over large areas and perform spatial analysis greatly enhances our ability to study the large-scale patterns and processes of the boreal such as natural and human disturbance, and to make predictions about the future as human impacts on the boreal increase.
20113236|Environmental variability in arctic and alpine regions is large, and consists of predictable (seasonality) as well as less predictable components (e.g. between-years variability). We compare demography of alpine and arctic microtines based on two long-term studies in the French Alps (snow vole, Chionomys nivalis) and at Svalbard (sibling vole, Microtus rossiaemeridionalis), as well as data from a short-term study on the common vole, M. arvalis, in the Alps. While the length of the vegetation period is of the same order of magnitude (3-4 months in the Alps, 3 months at Svalbard), the population dynamics and demography of the snow vole and of the sibling vole population are strikingly different. The alpine snow vole population is very stable, with little variability in survival and reproduction between years, particularly so during the winter. The sibling vole Svalbard population is highly fluctuating, with low variability in summer demographic rates and large variability in winter population rate of change. These different patterns of variability in the dynamics and demography of small mammals are related to the climatic patterns in both areas, particularly the pronounced seasonal fluctuation in climatic variability at Svalbard, and the somewhat constant level of climatic variability in the Alps. We argue that such patterns may be of general relevance to arctic environments on one hand and alpine environments at middle latitudes on the other hand. We further discuss the possible consequences of changes in variability patterns on the demography of small mammals.
20112995|In recent years the value of agricultural, physical, biological, and other ecologically sound methods of pest control has been rediscovered. These methods should support or replace the unbalanced use of pesticides. Despite numerous efforts to implement integrated control, the application of pesticides is still by far the most preferred method, as exemplified by current use of pesticides in the Rhineland of Germany. To more efficiently prevent outbreaks more effort must be put on the conservation of beneficial organisms (1) by creating natural refugia like hedges, headlands and other non-cultivated areas, (2) by diversification of crops, (3) by preferential use of selective pesticides harmless to beneficial organisms, and (4) by an overall reduced intensity of crop production. An improved prevention can reduce the expenditure for pesticides. If control measures are necessary, 10 biological preparations (microorganisms including viruses) and 11 macroorganisms (beneficial parasitoids, predators etc.) are commercially available in 11 and 7 European countries, respectively. In general, a remarkable number of ecologically sound methods of pest control are already offered in horticulture, viticulture, and forestry (e.g. Baculovirus (LpGV) against codling moth, Bacillus thuringiensis preparations against certain pests in fruit growing and horticulture, confusing technique against Eupoecilia ambiguella in viticulture, and mass trapping of bark beetles in forestry). In the future, special attention should be given to the development of biological and other ecologically sound disease control methods, since diseases play a dominant role in important crops in Europe, like cereals, apples, and vegetables. In discussions on the future of agriculture, and integrated control in particular, it is necessary to stress the fact that the main goal of Integrated Pest Management is not the improving of pesticide use in a rational and economic manner but to reduce the stress on the environment. Thus, there is not only a need for new and appropriate technologies or measures of pest control, but firstly preservation of natural resources is needed.
20112804|The abiotic research programme within the Swedish Coniferous Forest Project involves measurements of local climate, bio- and micrometerology, CO, interception of rain, snow, frost in the soil, and soil water. A method was developed for estimation of global radiation from observed cloudiness at a nearby network station to be used when measurements were lacking. Fish-eye photos together with global radiation values were used for calculations of shortwave radiation below canopy. The ngstrm equation seems to overestimate the longwave radiation loss for clear days. The emergy balance-Bowen ratio method was used for evaluation of hourly latent and sensible heat fluxes. The equipment used is a specially designed movable trolley which permits gradient measurements every minute above a sparse Scots pine forest (Ih V) with one and the same set of sensors to minimize uncertainties. Calculations of evapotranspiration based on neutron probe and tensiometer measurements showed the best agreement with empirical functions when a 300 s
20112700|The mode of infection of Panicum maximum by Spirillum lipoferum strain 7 in axenic culture was investigated. The bacteria were adsorbed to the surfaces of the roots 24 hours after inoculation and were observed in the middle lamellae of the root cells within a week. The bacteria remained intercellular even in on month old cultures. The following evidence indicates that the entry of the bacteria into the middle lamellae is mediated by pectolytic enzymes: a) zones of hydrolysis around colonies on pectin agar plates; b) growth of bacteria in pectin broth media; and c) ultrastructural evidence of hydrolysis of middle lamellae that were closely associated with the bacteria.
20112970|Mountain climate research has recently been stimulated by environmental concern over air pollution and acid precipitation, and by practical needs for assessment and prediction of highland water yields. The roles of wind regimes and temperature structure in pollutant transport are examined, and hydrometeorological processes in orographic cloud/precipitation and factors controlling snow accumulation/ablation in mountains are described. The contributions of new instrumentation and of remote sensing techniques to this research are discussed.
20113323|We evaluated the practical applicability of different types of indicator species used for monitoring and conservation planning in boreal forests. The results of a questionnaire to Swedish non-industrial private forest (NIPF) owners showed that from a list of 12 species, all birds and one well-known flowering plant could be recognised by a majority of the NIPF owners. On the other hand, lichens and fungi, and one cryptogam, i.e. indicator species currently in use by the National Board of Forestry, could be recognised by &lt50% of the NIPF owners. Furthermore, these owners had a level of forestry education above average. These results imply that such species are difficult to learn and to recognise, i.e. their usefulness for communicating the conservation value of forests is low. Thus, the possibility that NIPF owners with low or moderate forestry education will use them as monitoring tools in practice is also low. We argue that an indicator system well adapted to NIPF owners and the general public should build on a suite of species with a well-documented indicator and umbrella value for each forest type of conservation interest, and which also have a high communication value.
20112810|Water potential, stomatal conductance, rate of photosynthesis and stem radial change in Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) were measured in a 120-year-old and a 20-year-old stand, the latter stand submitted to differing nutrient and water regimes. Water potential was measured on fascicles with a pressure chamber, stomatal conductance on shoots with a null balance diffusion porometer and rate of photosynthesis as incorporation of
20112670|In spite of prevailing reduced conditions in waterlogged rice soils, oxidative conditions exist in the rice rhizosphere, due to a transport of air through the stems, which make it possible for oxidative heterotrophic nitrogen-fixing bacteria like Beijerinckia to grow and function in this region. Irrigated rice soils are mainly eluvial soils of the lateritic type. These lateritic soils are characterized by a very low content of Ca and other base cations (low pH), an accumulation of Fe-Al sesquioxides and a shortage of available PO due to phosphate fixation by the Fe-complexes. Consistent with this chemical environment Beijerinckia requires no Ca for growth, it can grow at extremely low pH values, it has a rather large Fe-requirement, and it can scavenge phosphate at very low concentrations. This may be the reason for the abundant occurrence of Beijerinckia in such soils. However, as indicated by the experiments with a temperate soil, competition with other microbes also may be involved. Nitrogen fixation in Beijerinckia is oxygen sensitive. Optimal nitrogen fixation occurs at 0.05-0.10 atm. 0, which is about the oxygen concentration in the apical parts of rice roots. In air, the efficiency of N fixation can be as high as 21 mg N  g
20113183|The clonal growth habit is widespread amongst nearly all plant life forms of the Arctic and Subarctic which includes the Abisko area where clonal plant species dominate all major vegetation types. The success of clonal plants can be ascribed to vegetative reproduction and improved nutrient utilisation and acquisition in a variety of ways as a consequence of the clonal growth habit. They do not depend on sexual reproduction and seedling establishment for proliferation in these harsh environments, they can search for nutrients in nutrient-limited and highly heterogeneous habitats, can take up water and nutrients from many sites simultaneously and thus buffer against spatial and temporal fluctuations in availability. They efficiently utilise the once acquired resources through recycling both within individual ramets and between ramets. As a consequence, their populations are stable and this has a stabilising effect on the vegetation as a whole. However, as they conserve nutrients within the living biomass, harmful effects of pollutants can be magnified. The implications of the characteristics and dominance of clonal plants for the resilience of the subarctic ecosystems in the context of environmental change is discussed.
20113338|A detailed understanding of the structural complexity and its effects on understorey light intensity in natural forests are important references for the further development of nature-based forest management. Based on a full inventory of a 1-ha plot in Suserup Skov, a near-natural temperate deciduous forest in Denmark, this research describes the structural complexity in three dimensions and identify structural factors, which determine the relative light intensity in the understorey, using profile- and crown-projection diagrams related to relative light intensity (RLI) measured one metre above the ground. The horizontal pattern showed a fine-grained mosaic of trees in different developmental phases resulting in a variable canopy height ranging from 1 to 40 m. Beneath the canopy one to three understorey layers were common. The main reasons for this well developed stratification were irregularity in canopy cover among small neighbouring structural units and the presence of four co-occurring tree species with different reproductive strategies and life cycles. Relating the spatial structure to the understorey light intensity, we found the continuous cover of dense growing understorey layers across neighbouring structural units to be the main determinant for RLI.
20113335|Suserup Skov in central Zealand, Denmark represents one of the best examples of a semi-natural beech Fagus sylvatica dominated forest in northern Europe. The forest is developed on rather variable soils, including sandy and clayey glacial tills and lacustrine sediments formed in a final stage of the Weichsel Glaciation. The humus form is generally mull and the vegetation is in most parts dominated by early flowering perennial herbs, e.g. Anemone spp. and Mercurialis perennis. The flora of shrubs and trees is species-rich including ca 30 species typical of mull soils. The most important tree species apart from Fagus sylvatica are Fraxinus excelsior, Quercus robur and Ulmus glabra. The vegetation history of the forest has been studied by analysis of pollen and macrofossils in a sediment core obtained from a small hollow in the forest. The analysis shows that the forest has continuity of tree cover at least back to 4200 BC, indicating it to be a direct descendent of the primeval forests which invaded Denmark after the end of the Weicshel Glaciation, ca 12000 yr ago. The forest composition and the prevailing disturbance regime have changed considerably over the last 6000 yr and the present beech-dominated forest has little in common with the primeval situation. Beech occurred for the first time in Suserup Skov ca 1700 BC and became dominant only ca 500 yr ago, together with oak. Before that the forest was a mixed deciduous forest with Alnus, Betula, Corylus, Fraxinus, Quercus, Tilia, Ulmus and even Pinus sylvestris. Forest fires were occasional until AD 800 and were probably a key in maintaining vital populations of light demanding tree species. The increase of beech seems to be closely related to human impact, especially the cessation of forest fires (natural and anthropogenic) and a shift in human use of the forest landscape from 600 BC to AD 900. Despite the historical impact from humans, Suserup Skov is now increasingly characterized by natural disturbance dynamics and is one of the best reference areas for naturalness in the nemoral part of northern Europe. This has attracted several research projects focussing on forest dynamics, ecology and biodiversity which are summarized in the paper or reported elsewhere in the current issue of Ecological Bulletins.
20112929|The vegetational history of the Lake Grdsjn area, Bohusln, SW Sweden was studied by pollen analysis. The aim of the investigation, which deals only with the last few hundred years, was to trace changes in land use and plant cover that might have influenced the recent acidification of the lake. During the last two hundred years the coniferous forest has expanded markedly at the expense of the deciduous forest. Spruce Picea abies (L.) Karst. has become the most common tree species and birch Betula spp., alder Alnus spp. and other broad-leaved trees (Quercus spp., Ulmus glabra Huds., Tilia cordata Mill.) have decreased in abundance. The watershed of the lake has obviously not been directly influenced by cultivation but grazing.
20112682|Short-term exposures (two hours) of Stereocaulon paschale (L.) Fr. and Peltigera aphthosa (L.) Willd. lichens to different concentrations (1-20
20112878|Rational management of shrimp in the coastal lagoons of NW Mexico requires the development of theoretical models based empirically on biotic and abiotic interrelations. Our analysis consisted of investigating the phosphorus cycle. Orthophosphates and phosphorus suspended and dissolved in water (rainfall, river discharge, and sea exchange) were measured in the field. In sediments, measurements were made of the liberation of phosphorus through drying and cracking, and of its subsequent diffusion and resuspension. Most of the phosphorus income is suspended; it represents 86% of the total amount circulating annually. Orthophosphate comes mainly from rainfall and sea exchange (7.5%). Annual losses are due to sedimentation (92%), fish harvesting, and sea exchange (2%). One percent of the dissolved and reactive phosphorus in the sediment is returned to the water column through diffusion, resuspension, and effects of dryness and cracking. During the dry season extended areas of the lagoon system are colonized by halophytes, which after inundation reincorporated 77% of the buried phosphorus. One hundred and seventy tonnes of phosphorus may be permanently buried each year; i.e., about 15% of the total circulating phosphorus, which is equal to 0.7 g
20113110|Anaerobic decomposition of landfilled refuse produces biogenic methane, most of which is vented to the atmosphere. Estimates for landfill methane emissions, based on worldwide solid waste quantities, range from &lt10 to &gt50 Tg
20112569|The arctic tundra of northern Alaska consists of a very finegrained mosaic of distinct habitats differentiated by the development of ice-wedge polygonization and differing markedly in overall invertebrate density. Soil invertebrate communities are strongly dominated by Enchtraeidae, which make up 65% of the total invertebrate biomass. Identification to species was accomplished for Enchytraeidae, Acarina and Collembola. The number of species of Acarina and Collembola is quite small. In each case there is a strong element of holarctic or cosmopolitan species in the fauna. Collembola show strong dominance by two species of Folsomia, with only weak between-habitat community differentiation. There is no evidence of within-habitat segregation of the two dominant Folsomia species. Acarina show greater equitability of abundance amongst species, and a greater degree of community differentiation between habitats. Enchytraeidae show strong dominance and moderate community differentiation. Community differentiation in Acarina and Collembola relates to substrate moisture; in Enchytraeidae it relates most closely to composition of the vegetation. The high degree of between-habitat and within-habitat overlap in faunal composition suggests that competition plays only a minor role in determining the community structure of tundra soil invertebrates.
20112837|The experiences of letting models play an important role in the research of a large ecological project are summarized. The development of the modelling within the Swedish Coniferous Forest Project from large complex models towards a more problem oriented approach is described. The possibilities of using systems analysis as a tool in basic research are examined. Finally, some possible lines of development of the modelling are outlined.
20112873|Results are presented from five southern Finnish ombrotrophic bogs on the long-term accumulation rates of metals in deep anaerobic peat layers and a comparison is made with the retention rates of elements in the recently accumulated aerobic surface peat. Moss-increment dating has been applied to the weakly decomposed surface peat, while radiocarbon or pollen dates have been available for the deep peat samples. The average metal accumulation rates in the anaerobic peat were: calcium 40.4, magnesium 23.8, iron 11.8, potassium 6.3, zinc 0.47, lead 0.37, manganese 0.19 and copper 0.06 mg
20112714|Continuous development of instruments and methods puts a variety of useful confirmatory tests in the hands of the residue analyst. The fear is gradually arising that the number of confirmatory tests required for each residue after gas chromatography will markedly reduce the total number of food samples that can be inspected by a laboratory. This paper discusses this problem and emphasizes that the only adequate confirmatory test is that which is also accepted by the organization responsible for withdrawing a commodity from the market. It is, however, obvious that adequate pesticide residue control can be undertaken without the use of confirmatory tests. Pesticide residue laboratories are advised that, before accepting a task of residue analysis, they should arrive at an agreement with the contractor about the type and number of confirmatory tests to be made. In some instances, as demonstrated recently in analyses for 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin at ppt (
20112884|The results of studies of pure cultures of microorganisms are often used to predict microbial transformations of synthetic chemicals in natural ecosystems. However, it is usually not possible at present to use such information to provide meaningful predictions of which intermediates in mineralization will accumulate in nature, which products of cometabolism will persist and which synthetic chemicals will not be metabolized at significant rates. Because of the excessively high substrate concentration, the testing of prototrophs and the absence of other populations in most tests in laboratory culture, predictions of the kinetics of the process in natural ecosystems, the kinds of microorganisms involved and the role of growth factors, microbiologically formed toxins, predators and parasites are often tenuous. Illustrations of the dangers in making such extrapolations are given. More meaningful predictions will require environmentally relevant investigations of the physiology, biochemistry and ecology of the microorganisms as well as field assessments of the transformations of synthetic chemicals.
20112901|Field studies on organochlorine insecticides led to the suggestion that persistent contaminants increase in concentration in successive members of food chains. Field data do not always support this suggestion, unless we define persistence as those properties which result in increase of concentration along food chains. Reliable interpretation of field data is difficult, and usually impossible. The relevance of compartmental models was therefore examined, using data published by Robinson et al. for HEOD (dieldrin) levels in blood and adipose tissues of the rat at various times after chronic exposure. The data suggested that some of the absorbed molecules of HEOD are eliminated very rapidly, and others pass very rapidly into adipose tissue. The rest of the HEOD forms a separate compartment in the blood, and is eliminated, and transferred to adipose tissue, much more slowly than the other molecules of HEOD. The assumption sometimes made that elimination rate is the same during and after exposure needs therefore to be tested for each species and pollutant. The partition coefficient is also unlikely to give reliable predictions of pollutant levels within organisms. It is desirable that data include not just concentrations of pollutants, but also estimates of total mass of pollutant in specific tissues or organs. Several implications follow for transfer of pollutants along food chains. The relevant measure of % absorption is not the total % absorbed, but of that part which is both absorbed and then not immediately eliminated before the opportunity occurs of transfer to other parts of the body. Factors which facilitate the increase in concentration of pollutants between successive members of a food chain are a high % absorption, small body size, low elimination rate -- which may sometimes correlate with large body size, but which also decreases the likelihood of steady-state concentrations being attained -- and high net transfer rates from blood to other parts of the body.
20112523|Sulphur emissions, particularly man-made, are very unevenly distributed over the globe. Due to the rather short residence time of sulphur compounds in the atmosphere this also holds for sulphur deposition. When assessing the impact of man-made emissions on ecological systems, regional budgets are therefore of great interest. On the other hand, for assessing possible impact on the radiation balance via aerosol formation, global figures may also be of interest. In the first subsection an attempt is made to formulate a pre-industrial sulphur budget for the pedosphere assuming a balance between weathering, atmospheric deposition and river runoff. Based on the additional assumption that the natural emission of volatile reduced sulphur compounds takes place essentially in coastal areas or over the oceans, it is concluded that the required flux through the atmosphere of such sulphur compounds is about 40 Tg S
20112822|Nitrogen (CH) fixation studies in stands of varying ages of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) on glacifluvial sand and in an old stand of mixed Scots pine and Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) on sandy moraine in central Sweden show that there are major differences in the rate, origin, and localization of N-fixation between different coniferous forest ecosystems. Nitrogen fixation was mainly of asymbiotic origin at investigated sites. Depending mainly on the vegetation cover in field and bottom layers, the nitrogen input from N-fixation in different strata varied between 0.027 and 3.84 g N
20113264|This article provides an overview of different sampling methods for assessing coarse woody debris (CWD). The focus is on the assessment of CWD volume and number of units using probability sampling methods, although subjective methods and the use of remote sensing for acquiring auxiliary information are also briefly dealt with. The methods covered are sample plot inventory, strip surveying, line intercept sampling, adaptive cluster sampling, point and transect relascope sampling, and guided transect sampling. While the first three of these methods are well known standard methods, the last four are quite newly developed. The foundations of the methods are described, as well as aspects on their theoretical efficiency and use in the field.
20112580|Analyses for the nutrient elements N, P, K, Ca and Mg in decomposing branch-wood show two distinct stages of immobilisation and release. During the period of decay dominated by fungi little decline in nutrient content was observed except in the case of K which is probably leached from branches prior to fall. Ca and N show some nett accumulation; the possible mechanisms of this are discussed. Estimations of the standing crop of mycelium of the basidiomycete Stereum hirsutum confirmed the role of fungi in immobilising nutrients. Branches invaded by larvae of Tipula flavolineata or by other animals show a nett loss of all nutrient elements. This phase of nutrient release is characterised by animal export of nutrient and loss through leaching following comminution.
20113008|Evidence is growing that grassland intensification increases the risk of nitrogen pollution of groundwater aquifers and surface waters. Important factors that influence nitrate leaching are fertilization level, soil type, soil use and hydrological situation. Inefficient use of nitrogen in the urine of grazing cattle results in much higher nitrate concentrations than in mowed grassland. The fate of slurry N is strongly influenced by the application technique. Injection of slurry strongly reduces N-losses by volatilization, improves recovery of slurry N in the grass and does not increase nitrate leaching when application rates for mineral fertilizer N are adjusted to the mineralised N from slurry. Surface runoff from grassland treated with slurry can contain high concentrations of dissolved organic N and ammonium, not only in hilly areas but also on gently sloping land. The principle factors influencing concentrations in surface runoff are the amount of slurry spread and the time interval between spreading and a surface runoff event. Nitrogen uptake in grass may be limited by the amount of water available. Supplying water in dry periods will increase crop uptake and minimize nitrate leaching losses. Reduction of nitrogen losses via volatilization, leaching and surface runoff can be achieved by improving the application technique and by measures that influence the amount of nitrogen in and on the soil and by a good water management. The appropriate measures to be taken should be based on site specific information with respect to climate, soil and hydrological situation.
20112807|The dynamics of the field and bottom layers were studied by non-destructive sampling of cover percentage in an age series of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) stands. Four developmental stages were distinguished,viz., the stage of retrogression, the stage of recolonization, the unthinned mature stage and the thinned mature stage. It was demonstrated that the apparent stability in a forest community is disturbed by silvicultural measures, e.g., thinning and clear-cutting causing successions resembling those which follow from death of single trees, storm-felling, fires, etc. in the "primeval" forest.
20112852|It has been suggested that reduced biogenic sulfur compounds, in particular dimethylsulfide (DMS), could account for a significant flux of sulfur from the oceans to the atmosphere. In order to investigate this hypothesis, and to ascertain the biological source of DMS, we have determined its concentration in surface and deep sea water at a number of stations, and compared the results with indicators of biological activity, e.g., the concentration of chlorophyll a. We have observed a close correlation between the concentration of DMS in seawater and indicators of algal activity, both in their geographical distribution and in vertical profiles through the water column. The concentration of DMS in seawater shows a sharp decline near the base of the euphotic zone; only very low levels of DMS are present in the deep ocean. The concentrations in the surface ocean average 50 ng S(DMS)
20113101|This paper examines two major areas of uncertainty in the prediction of the impact of trace gas emissions on climate. The first is socioeconomic factors which determine the rate of such processes as resource use, industrial production or land conversion. The second is the feedback between the earth's land surface and climate. Since the land surface is the source of trace gas emissions, both natural and anthropogenic changes of vegetation will affect the nature and quantity of emissions. This paper demonstrates large-scale land surface changes which have taken place naturally or from human activities, either intentionally or inadvertently, and describes the dwindling availability of natural resources, using water as an example. Vegetation is also examined as both a response to and a determining factor in climate. Hence, the intricate feedback between vegetation and climate complicates any attempt to predict climatic change. Better quantitative assessment of all relationships and processes is required to achieve realistic forecasts of global change.
20113196|Selected cases of environmental signals of landscape change are discussed, mainly from the mountain tree line and higher levels in N Sweden. The first two cases are based on comparisons between old photographs from 1905-1907 by O. Sjgren, and repeated photography. The third case shows the short-term glacier-front advance of a small ice cliff in the 1990's. The fourth case is signs and impact of melting permafrost in the Alps, which is of considerable interest for comparative studies in northern Scandinavia as part of a continued research programme of "global change". The extent and processes of permafrost and cold-based glaciers is a neglected field of environmental studies in northern Europe.
20112931|Sediment cores from Lake Grdsjn, Bohusln province, SW Sweden, were used to study the course of the acidification of the lake. The Holocene pH history of the lake water was reconstructed by diatom analysis. The pH of the lake decreased from 7 to 6 during the course of about 12 500 yr due to natural causes, but during the past few decades the pH rapidly decreased to 4.5. The significance of vegetational changes and acid precipitation with regard to the recent acidification is discussed.
20112888|An area of more than 200,000 ha in the savannas near Mantecal (Edo. Apure) has been altered by building a system of dikes (mdulos). The modules are used to control the water regime in a zone subject to the seasonality of precipitation. A module is comparable to a small watershed, where the input corresponds to the precipitation entering the area, and the output corresponds to the water flux leaving through a floodgate situated in the lower part of the area. Since the losses by deep seepage are insignificant (the soils in the module are clayey 2:1 and poorly drained), it is possible to construct nutrient budgets showing input (nutrient loads in precipitations) and output (nutrient losses by surficial drainage). Preliminary results indicate that, in 1980, there was a net loss of the cations (K, Na,
20113187|Here we investigate, across a wide range of latitudes and altitudes, the commonness of and differences in a number of key features related to growth and development of herbaceous plants of cold climates in comparison to warmer climates. In order to separate genotypic from phenotypic characteristics, we made reciprocal transplants of populations of the same or closely related species. We used plants from high and low altitude in the Tyrolian Alps (47N, 2600 m and 600 m altitude) and the northern Scandes near Abisko (68N, 1150 m and 380 m) plus a low altitude site in Spitzbergen (79N, 50 m). The most important genera in this comparison were Ranunculus and Geum. In situ, our results show relatively small altitudinal and latitudinal differences in parameters like leaf weight ratio and leaf life span (except Spitzbergen), whereas differences in specific leaf area and fine root weight ratio were pronounced. Reciprocal latitudinal transplants within the alpine or lowland life zone revealed strong but species-specific phenorhythmic disorder related to photoperiod. We conclude that in a warming climate temperature-opportunistic species (e.g. Geum spp.) will profit in terms of biomass production and reproduction, while strongly photoperiod-controlled species (e.g. Ranunculus glacialis) will benefit little or not. These findings re-emphasize the need for considering phenology in predictive models of vegetation changes.
20112918|Applying stress to a system gives rise to strain within the system. Ecosystem strain can be defined as the distance in the state space to a reference state. Stable ecosystems occupy a small region in the state space, which can be called the normal operating range. The centre of the normal operating range can be used as the reference state of the ecosystem. States within the normal operating range have a certain endogenous strain. By relating the ecosystem strain to the normal operating range, a normalized ecosystem strain is defined. This normalized ecosystem strain attains values above 1 for states outside the normal operating range of the ecosystem. An example of the time course of the normalized ecosystem strain is given for an experiment with an aquatic micro-ecosystem. Introduction of a pesticide resulted in a temporary increase of the normalized ecosystem strain to values above 1, as a response to the stress. This effect was on the ecosystem level of organisation and could not be discerned from the state variables, if analysed separately.
20112960|The aim of this investigation was to study the potential role of sediment in exchange processes in acid and limed lakes. Hydrogen ion concentration was artificially regulated in laboratory sediment-water microcosms from two acidified clearwater lakes and one brown water lake, and release and sorption of dissolved substances was studied at different pH levels (pH 3-9). Acidic clearwater microcosms (pH 3-5) were characterized by low concentrations of phosphorus and dissolved organic carbon (DOC), but high concentrations of Al, Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu and Cd in overlying water. Concentrations of phosphorus and DOC increased drastically as pH increased (6 &lt pH &lt 9). Also extreme acidification (pH &lt 3) increased phosphorus and DOC concentrations. In humic water microcosms, phosphorus and DOC concentrations decreased with decreasing pH, whereas Al, Fe, and Mn were released at low and high pH levels. Raising pH with calcium carbonate or calcium hydroxide did not obviously affect phosphorus and DOC concentrations in overlying water. Addition of phosphate to overlying water was followed by a rapid sorption/uptake at low pH (3.8 &lt pH &lt 6.3). The phosphate reduction occurred both in the sediment and in the water. Addition of lime did not reduce phosphate sorption/uptake.
20112956|Small volume water samples were collected across the sediment-water interface with a specially designed "filter probe". Analyses of Na, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, Al, Mn, Cl,
20112576|Presently correct estimates of the role of soil animals in nutrient cycling cannot be made both for intellectual and methodological reasons. The isolated study of compartments led us to take into account only metabolic activity and exchange. Nevertheless, by their movements and soil structuring (resulting from their activity) soil animals play a major role in the function of other compartments. Models have to take in account mechanical and structural roles of animals, i.e. to reflect the consequences of animal activity on other compartments in the cycles. From the point of view of methods, errors on monospecific local populations are from a few per cent and on metabolic activities of some order of magnitude; regulation interactions with other compartments are usually unknown or just descriptive. A really heuristic elaboration of the concept in conjunction with new techniques, satisfactory from an ecological point of view, could lead step by step to a description of animal roles in ecosystems.
20113270|The store and dynamics of coarse woody debris (CWD) in boreal virgin spruce forests were studied in a series of permanent sample plots. The studied stands were of different age structure types (all-aged, uneven-aged and even-aged), in different dynamic stages (with increasing growing stock, stable growing stock and decreasing growing stock) and of different forest types (Vaccinium myrtillus, Polytrichum-Myrtillus, and Sphagnum-Myrtillus). The total volume of visible CWD ranged from 31.8 to 362.2 m
20112975|The Tornetrsk area in northern Swedish Lapland is mountainous with birch forest in the valleys and some pine forest in its most eastern parts. Up to the 17th century the human land-use in the area was probably confined mostly to hunting and fishing. From this time on intensive reindeer husbandry spread into the area. Probably the reindeer grazing had a great impact upon the vegtation at the timberline as the Saami-people often stayed close to the timberline with their grazing animals. Severe climatical conditions in combination with this type of grazing probably depressed the timberline. Around 1900, an extensive form of reindeer grazing was introduced into the area. The grazing has since then been more spread out and is not so intense at the timberline. Probably partly as an effect of this change in grazing pattern the timberline has been rising in the area during the 20th century. Swedish and Finnish farmers also effected the vegetation in the area during the later part of the 19th century and the first decades of the 20th century. The cutting of hay on both mires and on man made meadows in the birch forest was extensive. Also birch leaves were cut on a large scale locally close to some of the settlements. During the building of the railway from Kiruna to Narvik, which was opened in 1903, extensive cuttings of the forest took place along the railway. Also mining activities during the 18th and 19th centuries could have indirectly affected the structure of the forest in the region. Probably the pine has suffered from such activities. Subalpine heaths and open mires and tall herb meadows at the timberline could all be successional stages after an earlier human activity on these sites. Also the tree composition in many forest sites in the area could be a result of earlier human inmpact.
20113222|Animal distributions through time have been both directly and indirectly influenced by climate change. Beetle ranges have changed considerably in response to past temperature variation, but most range adjustments were indirect, resulting from alteration in habitat. The Quaternary glaciations caused major re-organisations of vegetation, and northern biomes such as taiga covered far smaller areas at the last glacial maximum. Many species became extinct as a consequence of these reductions in habitat, and others became concentrated in mountainous refuge areas. Anthropogenic factors interacted with climate change during the last glaciation and became of major importance during the Holocene. Extinction of the megafauna was most likely a consequence of this interaction. The shift from grazers to browsers in southern Sweden during the late Holocene was primarily a result of changed land-use, but even today there is a climatic element to currently changing distributions of many animal species.
20112771|Tillers of Rubus chamaemorus L. were sampled thrice daily on 18-22 July and 19-23 August 1974, from two microsite types on a permafrost mire at Stordalen (Abisko), Sweden. Estimates of
20113172|Calculations with the dynamic model SAFE were used to assess the effect on soil chemistry and implications for forest growth under different future deposition scenarios. The calculations show that there is consistency between observed and calculated chemical changes in soils exposed to high acidity input loads, and that the acidification models are capable of reconstructing the recorded chemical history. Studies of the individual terms in a mass balance of acidity for the soil reveal that acid deposition is the most significant acidity input to the soil and the greatest cause of chemical change. The model calculations indicate that a large part of these chemical changes can be reversed within 10-30 yr if the acidity input is significantly reduced. If laboratory sensitivity of trees to Al is transferable to field conditions, then the present rate of deposition should cause concern about soil acidification effects on forest growth. Regional assessments based on the Swedish Forest Inventory suggest that deposition reductions of 80% for S and 50% for N as compared to the 1980 level will result in soil chemistry at steady state that will not be harmful to trees.
20112953|Coordinated, ecological investigations were performed in the acidified Lake Grdsjn, SW Sweden, and its catchment during the period 1978-1981. In this introduction general questions and aims of the sediment study are briefly discussed. Papers on sediment properties and processes in the acid lake are also presented.
20112727|Higher plants are not a suitable material for studies of genetic disturbances caused by herbicides. The physiological effects of such compounds which certainly have a thresholded dose- effect cruve might secondarily lead to disturbances, including heritable changes, of the genetic material. A significant rise in several species of chromosomal aberrations due to treatment with chlorinated phenoxy acids and related compounds should therefore be clarified with regard to the mechanism. A few observations of increased mutation frequencies cannot be easily evaluated, because established mutation tests were not used or because of insufficient control material. Data indicate that the genetic risk, if it exists, is low. Not the least in order to prevent genetic deterioration of crop species, further work is required to clarify the importance of the observed effects.
20112860|Calcium carbonate precipitation was noted in seawater from Bermuda as well as from Halifax Harbor provided that a minimum of 70 mg
20112857|The vertical nitrous oxide (NO) flux from N-fertilized, irrigated fields in northeastern Colorado was larger than from similar unfertilized sites, but accounted for only 0.6 to 1.5% of the added N. These NO losses, determined by a soil cover collection and gas chromatographic analytical technique, were much smaller than has been assumed in models predicting the effect of projected increases in the use of N fertilizer on stratospheric ozone concentration. Although small, NO emissions from native grasslands represent an important N loss mechanism from these low-N ecosystems and contribute significantly to global NO flux from land surfaces. Soil N and water content and temperature are factors which potentially affect N production in the soil and subsequent evolution to the atmosphere. The source of fertilizer N as well as the rate of N applied also affects NO flux from the soil. Large temporal variability in NO emission rates are related to a complex combination of these factors, which we have combined with NO flux data to develop a simple mechanistic model to predict daily NO loss from soil.
20113238|Large and small scale changes of the world's ecosystems are continuously occurring as responses to global change. In the northern boreal ecosystems this process has caused both species appearance and disappearance throughout the Holocene. However, the main effects have been structural changes, including altered distribution limits of species and shifts in species dominance. This paper focuses on natural and anthropogenic structural changes in the forest-tundra ecotone, mainly from a vegetation point of view. Specific examples are given from the Abisko area in northern Sweden, which has a long history of human impact. Land use changes during last centuries have caused large structural changes within the birch and pine forests, within the forest-tundra ecotone, and in tundra areas. These changes have impacted patterns of animal occurrence, site frequentation by animals, foraging behaviour, and on how animals influence the vegetation. The dynamic nature of structural changes and delayed responses are discussed in relation to different episodic and chronic disturbances. Time spans needed to recreate a structure comparable to the structure prior to a disturbance can not be known and can not be compared between different periods in time, as every time period is unique. Nevertheless, such time spans have to be taken into account when discussing management issues and future responses of the ecosystems.
20112809|A system of air-cooled assimilation chambers was developed for continuous measurement of gas exchange in a 20-year-old stand of Scots pine. The period of net photosynthetic activity was approximately eight months a year, starting in April as soon as the soil was no longer frozen. Photosynthesis stopped in December largely because of low irradiance and air temperature. Calculation of the mesophyll conductance for carbon dioxide showed that it took more than two months of the growing season to repair winter damage to the photosynthetic apparatus. Needle age had a much more pronounced effect on photosynthetic efficiency and performance than had the position of needles within the crown. The variation between trees was small, and smaller for photosynthesis than for transpiration. Stem and branch respiration measured in situ exhibited large seasonal variation. The pronouncedly increased rate of respiration during the growth period was probably caused by "growth respiration" plus an adaptation to temperature of the maintenance respiration. In light, stem and branch respiration decreased as a result of the refixation of carbon dioxide in the chlorophyll-containing tissue immediately beneath the thin periderm.
20112588|Microbial biomass in the forest floor of a sub-arctic black spruce ecosystem averaged 5.7 g
20113250|Managers in diverse landscapes seek to detect and conserve localities with relatively rich or intact assemblages of native species. We present a four-step procedure to select and screen potential focal species for conservation planning and monitoring of species richness. Species inventories and nestedness analysis are used to identify potential indicators of high species richness. Next, linear regression is employed to predict species richness as a function of environmental parameters that are tractable to quantify or manage. Simultaneously, occupancy modeling tests whether the presence of each focal species mainly correlates with high species richness or tends to be explained by other environmental variables. Finally, repeated inventories empirically validate the use of the focal taxa and parameterize further analyses of their population dynamics and viability. We illustrate this general approach with case studies of cryptogams in boreal forests of northern Sweden and butterflies in mountain ranges in the western United States. Our results demonstrate that the roles that focal species realistically can play in monitoring and management vary between ecosystems and taxonomic groups. Regardless of whether individual focal species can serve as dependable indicators of species richness, our methods will assist managers in assessing the potential effects of alternative management strategies on species distributions.
20113128|Forests and woodlands dominated by pines (Pinus spp.) occur naturally over an unusually broad range of environmental conditions in the northern hemisphere and now they are widely planted south of the equator. Some pine species occur in savannas that are characterized by surface fires every 10 years or less, while others form dense forests that are burned at intervals of 100-300 years. Contrasting disturbance, temperature and precipitation regimes have led to great diversity in the morphological and physiological adaptations of the numerous pine species, but most appear to be tolerant of low nutrient availability. Plant uptake and microbial immobilization lead to an accumulation of nitrogen that is derived primarily from atmospheric deposition rather than nitrogen fixation, with the largest amount of nitrogen stored in the soil organic matter. Available data suggest that annual net primary productivity ranges from about 200-1800 g C
20112934|Historical documents from Lake Grdsjn and other nearby lakes in the River Anrse catchment show that perch Perca fluviatilis L., northern pike Esox lucius L. and European eel Anguilla anguilla L. are original species in all lakes. Roach Leuciscus rutilus L., minnow Phoxinus phoxinus L., brown trout Salmo trutta L. and sea trout Salmo trutta L. were original in many lakes and streams. The pH values in summer of 6.0 and 6.5 in the 1940's declined during the 1950's and 1960's by 1.0 to 1.8 pH units in most lakes until the early 1970's values of 4.5 to 5.5. The pH decline, together with pH drops during snowmelt and autumn rains, have caused significant changes in fish stocks. Roach disappeared from all lakes, perch was seriously affected in all lakes or disappeared, as did other species noted from the lakes: northern pike, tench Tinca tinca L., crucian carp Carassius carassius L., European eel and brown trout. Minnow, brown trout and sea trout disappeared from major parts of the streams.
20113216|The measures to combine management for wood and biodiversity at the scale of trees, stands and landscapes in Sweden during the recent decade are reviewed. In Sweden there is a gradient in the proportion of privately owned forest from the north (&lt40%) to the south (&gt80%) with a threshold at the southern limit of the continuous boreal forest. Our review of management approaches clearly demonstrates a close association between a shorter land use history, more advanced planning methods and company/state forests in the north, and a longer land use history, planning methods still more immature and privately owned forests in the south. For landscape planning four methods were identified 1) a landscape ecological approach where core areas of habitats of importance for biodiversity are secured and buffer or restoration zones are built; 2) a natural landscape approach which aims at mimicking the natural disturbance regimes based on the distribution of different site types in a landscape; 3) a cultural landscape approach which considers the management methods of the old cultural landscape as a special set of disturbance regimes; 4) a non-ecological approach where landscape aesthetics are proposed and applied near cities, settlements and in association with reforestations as well as in regions with a very long history of land use. Due to this rapid development towards combining the production and environmental goals for forest management, the biodiversity considerations in forestry have been estimated to increase the green and dead tree retention at different spatial scales from 2-3% in the late 1980's to 10-13% at present. Still, however, there are unresolved biodiversity management problems at the landscape scale.
20112905|PCBs (Clophen A 50) were added to sediment (1 g
20112679|Small amounts of nitrogen are fixed by free-living bacteria in the soil and in the canopy of conifers. This nitrogen, whilst not forming a major part of the nitrogen requirement of the trees, may contribute significantly in an environment known to be short of available combined nitrogen. The bacteria isolated from this environment liberate a wide range of amino acids in culture and these can be taken up directly by the roots of Douglas fir and larch seedlings and translocated throughout the plant. Bacteria isolated from the canopy also liberate amino acids during culture. Studies with
20113306|The search for thresholds in natural phenomena is not new. Nonetheless, the detection of thresholds in species response to habitat alteration has recently received a lot of attention from conservation biologists and ecosystem managers. Ecological phenomena such as species occurrence and processes exhibiting a step function or threshold in their response to the alteration of habitat structure have obvious implications for conservation. Furthermore, researchers should try to identify a specific cut-off value or at least, a narrow range of values along an alteration gradient for application purposes. Owing to the paucity of objective statistical methods, or to the failure of researchers to apply them in ecology, specific threshold values or ranges are rarely identified. In this paper, we examine issues related to the detection of threshold responses to habitat alteration, specifically 1) the selection of meaningful parameters of biological response and indicators of habitat alteration, and 2) statistical considerations associated with the identification and interpretation of nonlinear responses (focusing on breakpoint regression and ROC analysis). We use theoretical data sets with predefined thresholds to validate threshold values determined by these methods. We also distinguish and interpret different types of thresholds that can be observed empirically. Then, we examine the robustness of threshold values to differences in sample size and in the extent of the habitat alteration gradient sampled and finally, we explore issues concerning data partitioning to control for confounding effects of other factors (e.g., stand composition, geographical variation). The issues discussed here will have direct implications in future research assessing threshold responses to habitat alteration.
20113271|We examined decay rates and storage of coarse woody debris (CWD) of Scots pine Pinus sylvestris L., Norway spruce Picea abies (L.) Karst., birch Betula spp. and aspen Populus tremula L. Based on chronosequence with direct measurements, dynamics of decay of CWD were reconstructed in different forests throughout the Leningrad Region. Multiple exponential and lag-time functions were used to fit obtained data. Results revealed the shortest decomposition period for aspen with 85% of the initial mass lost in 27 yr for logs 5-25 cm, 43 yr for 25-60 cm, and 106 yr for bark. Birch had similar values, with 85% of the initial mass lost in 21 yr for logs 5-15 cm, 49 yr for 15-60 cm, and 84 yr for bark. Spruce had intermediate values with 85% of the initial mass lost in 32 yr for logs 5-20 cm, 60 yr for 20-40 cm, 74 yr for 40-60 cm, 112 yr for bark and 71 yr for coarse roots. Pine CWD decayed most slowly, with 85% of the initial mass lost in 37 yr for logs 5-15 cm, 83 yr for 15-35 cm, 98 yr for 35-60 cm and 206 yr for bark. CWD input and transformation over time were modeled. The model is based on conceptual pattern of ecosystem dynamics, beginning with an initial clearcut in virgin forest. Results indicated that CWD mass generally followed the U-shaped curve, which is most pronounced for spruce and pine. Forest inventory data on growing stock were used to calculate potential storage of CWD in the Leningrad Region. Application of the model resulted in wide range of CWD storage with highest values in spruce and pine stands (39 and 37 Tg C respectively), moderate values in birch stands (21 Tg C) and lowest values in aspen stands -- 7 Tg C (1 Tg=10t). Ratio of total CWD mass to live phytomass in this area was 0.42.
20113277|Retention of live and dead trees in regeneration harvesting of forest stands has become a widely recommended method to maintain biological diversity in managed forests. I explored the significance of retained live and dead aspens Populus tremula for threatened saproxylic beetles (Coleoptera), which are often assumed to require old-growth forests. Samples were collected with trunk-window traps at two localities in Finland. The 90 trees studied were situated in two old-growth forests and on four clearcuts. A total of 23 threatened species were caught, 21 of which occurred on clearcuts and 10 in old-growth forests. Many species were most abundant on clearcuts with aspens that had died naturally, but notched and girdled aspens on clearcuts also harboured a rich fauna. The results suggest that the great majority of beetles associated with aspen can probably tolerate clearcutting provided that a sufficient number of suitable host trees is retained. Many of the species may even prefer sun-exposed habitats. Consequently, a retention harvest system can be a valuable method to maintain the populations of threatened species even in managed forests. It is also important to enhance regeneration of aspen in forest reserves or in adjacent areas, because there is a risk that reserves gradually lose the important aspen admixture, as today, the natural disturbance dynamics do not operate.
20112917|The effect of sulphite cellulose factory effluents on heterotrophic microbes was studied in unpolluted and polluted parts of a watercourse in central Finland. In all experiments 50% inhibition of heterotrophic activity occurred between 0.1 and 1.0% effluent water concentration, except at a heavily polluted station closest to the factory where the concentration had to be raised to about 10% to provoke a 50% inhibition. The high heterotrophic activity retained may depend on a microbial heterotrophic flora tolerating high concentrations of effluent water and low pH, and introduced into the watercourse via the effluent water. A clear stimulation by low effluent water concentrations was observed at unpolluted and slightly polluted stations. The results indicate that ecologically relevant data can be derived from the water course by heterotrophic activity measurement with
20113251|I used field data from a fragmented population of the bush cricket Metrioptera bicolor (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae) to evaluate whether different features of metapopulation dynamics, i.e. temporal changes in local and regional occupancy, can be accurately predicted by stochastic simulation models. Three different spatially realistic metapopulation models were considered: an incidence function model, a logistic regression model that was simulated using the METAPOP III program, and a demographic model used with the RAMAS GIS simulation package. All models gave good predictions about turnover rates and temporal changes in regional occupancy of M. bicolor. However, the predictions were less accurate regarding the fraction of time steps that individual habitat patches were occupied.
43908649|The history and present state of the fish-farming industry in Norway are reviewed briefly. Total production in 1979 amounted to about 6.6 thousand tons. The main part of the food fish is produced in the marine environment. Only Atlantic salmon and rainbow trout have become of commercial importance to date, but there is still some interest in other species, especially salmonids. Brood stocks of rainbow trout were imported from Denmark. In Norway, contrary to the Danish production of "pan-size" fish, individual fish of 2-6 kg with a considerably longer life-span are produced. However, there seems to be enough genetically controlled variation among these rainbow trout to provide a basis for developing fish better adapted to the requirements of the Norwegian fish-farming industry. When Atlantic salmon farming started around 1970, wild-caught salmon had to be relied on for brood stock. It soon became apparent that the wild stocks were of very varying value for fish farming, and experiments are now under way to develop strains suitable for salmon rearing. Studies on phenotypic and genetic variation, as well as tentative results from selection experiments, indicate that genetic gain can be expected both in Atlantic salmon and rainbow trout.
20113324|Recent policies on Sustainable Forest Management (SFM) include the maintenance of biodiversity. This requires an integrated set of tools for evaluating the status of ecosystems and of the policy implementation process by society's institutions. As a way of integrating analyses of social-ecological systems in these two dimensions of the cycles of policy formation and implementation, we propose to combine methods from natural and social sciences using the term "two-dimensional gap analysis". The ecological dimension involves analyses of the networks of different types of ecosystems in actual landscapes. It includes: 1) estimation of regional gaps in the amount and representation of different ecosystems, 2) analyses of the functionality of the habitat networks in terms of hosting viable populations and ecosystem processes, and 3) understanding of how protection, management, and restoration measures can be combined in practice at different spatial scales. The social dimension concerns the implementing actors and institutions in a selected actual landscape or region and includes: 1) identification of the actors and mapping of policy networks, 2) evaluation of the implementation process to learn about the issues of concern, and 3) evaluation of policy implementation in the defined social-ecological system. We provide examples of methods to carry out all six steps in the context of the policy formation and implementation cycle. Managers and their institutions must realise that social-ecological systems are complex, self-organising, and adaptive systems with dynamics in multiple spatial and temporal scales across several levels of organisation. Only an explicit recognition of this complexity and application of transdisciplinary approaches will lead to progress in combining the efforts of managers and scientists to implement biodiversity maintenance policies.
43908648|The recruitment of Atlantic salmon to the Baltic relies at present to about 60% upon hatcheryreared smolts, and the proportion of artificially reared salmon will probably increase in the future. Large-scale tagging experiments have shown considerable differences in return rates between years, between rivers in which smolts are released, and between different groups of fish. The main differences in return rates are due to the quality of the stocking material and to the circumstances at release. The quality of smolts with regard to post-hatchery survival, growth and migratory behaviour is governed by a complex system of environmental factors and procedures in hatcheries, ecological factors in the wild, and hereditary characters. The most important task for salmon biologists in future will be to identify these factors in an effort to maintain or even increase the efficiency of smolt production without interfering with natural salmon populations.
20113302|Compared with most lowland forests, sustainable forest management in Austria's mountain forests involves a wider range of management issues. Using a forest management unit in the Montafon valley, western Austria, as an example, we describe how the maintenance of biodiversity as well as multipurpose functions of the forests under fragile ecological conditions is dealt with. Long-term sustainability is both formulated by national policies and demanded by the local society. However, due to increased competition foresters are forced to fulfil short-term goals neglecting long-term sustainability. Both market and public goods have to be produced but without any appropriate policy to cover the costs of public goods. Long-term sustainability requires that the major part of the forest land is managed using methods that are accounting for the environment, biodiversity, and timber yield at the same time. For this, specific guidelines and target values are needed. In order to be accepted by practitioners and the general public, these guidelines and target values have to be defined in co-operation with foresters and nature conservationists. Further, maintenance as well as restoration of biodiversity has to become an integral part of forest management planning. To conclude, an applicable and cost-effective forest planning methodology is needed.
20112496|The report begins by comparing multiple-use forestry in past agrarian time with that in the industrialized present, and contrasts the differences in attitude on the part of the respective societies. Unlike the case of wood-producing forestry, it is very difficult to evaluate -- in operational terms -- forestry which gives priority to recreational facilities, provided as a free benefit for all. However, environmental protection legislation prescribing silviculture with this aim may be looked upon as a servitude imposed on the forest, whether publicly or privately owned. A contribution exacted from society for the purpose would shift the burden of costs for environmental and recreational purposes from the forest owner to the public. Such a course would, of course, not eliminate the problem of evaluation -- of weighing costs against benefits -- but would perhaps bring a solution nearer in that both these factors would be judged from the same socioeconomic standpoint.
20112882|The long-term fate of herbicides in the environment is strongly influenced by adsorption phenomena operated by soil colloids (clay and humus). Persistence and leachability, bioactivity and biodegradability of herbicides are mainly dependent upon the bonding mechanisms involved in the adsorption processes; qualitative information was obtained applying analytical (DTA, elementary and functional group analysis) and spectroscopic (ESR and IR) techniques to study the products of interaction of selected typical s-triazines and substituted ureas with humic acids of different origins. The significant increase in nitrogen percentage and decrease in C/N ratios observed in obtained complexes appeared to be strictly related to acidic (carboxylic and phenolic) functional groups' content of humic acids. The shifting to higher temperatures of the characteristic exothermic peaks due to decarboxylation and phenolic OH-dehydration in the interaction products revealed a higher thermostability owing to the formation of stable bonds. The existence of ionic bonds between carboxylic and phenolic OH-groups of humic acids and the most basic herbicides was demonstrated by the apparent reduction of the characteristic infrared absorption bands and the contemporaneous increase of the carboxylate ions bands. Infrared analysis showed that weaker hydrogen bonds with less basic herbicides (i.e., substituted ureas) can be formed by these groups, as well as by carbonyl and alcoholic OH. Electron donor-acceptor bonds ( -  interactions) between activated triazine rings and deactivated aromatic nuclei of humic acids were hypothesized on the basis of the observed shifting of specific CH wagging absorption of s-triazine in the infrared spectra of interaction products. The generally observed increase of the free radicals' content and the broadening of linewidths in the single-line ESR spectra obtained following adsorption, confirmed the occurrence of electron donor-acceptor processes involving free radical intermediates. ESR results also indicated the occurrence of extensive molecular association, which resulted in an increased molecular complexity in the adsorption products which offered additional delocalization sites by mesomerism to free electrons of the humic molecule. Therefore the feasible formation of covalent bonds between quinonoid structures of humic acids and nitrogenated groups of herbicides was suggested. Oxidative mechanisms involving an attack on the herbicide molecule by humic free radicals might also be hypothesized to explain the strong enhancement of paramagnetism. Different binding mechanisms will act in the interaction of herbicides with humic materials, varying with chemical reactivity of the herbicide and active functional groups and free radical contents of humic molecules.
20112774|Data on nitrogen cycling in an ombrotrophic, subarctic mire are presented. The system accumulates nitrogen at a rate of approximately 0.42 g N
20113147|Results of measurements of the concentrations of ozone in the lower layers of the atmosphere are presented, with respect to variations in time and space. Exceedance of critical exposure doses is calculated from ozone concentrations measured at the Swedish background monitoring sites. The critical exposure doses used in the calculations of exceedance are those discussed and proposed for forest trees and for agricultural crops at the UN ECE Workshop on Critical Levels of Ozone, 1994. The variations of ozone concentrations have been investigated as yearly means, seasonal variations, short term variations (episodes) and diurnal variations. No great differences in yearly means between the southern and northern part of the country were found. Seasonal differences are evident; there are higher monthly mean values in the north in the winter and an earlier rise of ozone concentration in early spring, while monthly means during summer are higher in the south. Episodes with high concentrations of ozone, mainly in the summer, are more frequent in the southern part of the country, but the numbers and magnitude of the episodes vary greatly between years. Diurnal variations follow a general pattern with the lowest ozone concentrations measured during early morning hours and the highest in the afternoons. Calculations of AOT40, accumulated exposure over the threshold concentration of 40 ppb, show that the critical dose proposed for forest trees was exceeded regularly in the south while it was not exceeded at the two stations in the north during 1990-1993. The critical exposure doses suggested for crops, estimated to cause production losses of 5 or 10%, were both exceeded. The calculations indicate that there are risks of ozone damage to forest trees primarily in the south, as well as of production losses for crops in the whole country, although more extensively in the south.
20113180|A new palaeoecological and palaeoclimatic project based on the study of Holocene lake sediments in the subalpine Abisko area, N Sweden (northern Scandes) is described. The palaeobotanical framework was founded upon the pollen zone system defined by Sonesson. This model of vegetation history has been confirmed, although the chronology is partly revised. Sonesson's pollen diagrams are combined with new results from a lake sediment sequence at the tree-limit, which include sedimentologic, mineral magnetic, oxygen isotope and plant macrofossil studies. Since the deglaciation at c. 9 000-8 500
20113161|Results are presented from the first seven years of a nutrient optimisation experiment in young stands of Norway spruce in northern Sweden. The principal aim of the experiment was to eliminate water and mineral nutrients as growth-limiting factors, at the same time as leaching to the groundwater was avoided. The approach applied was the definition of target values for the foliage concentration of each nutrient element. On the basis of repeated foliar analysis and predicted growth response the proportions and amounts of nutrients applied were adjusted annually. Imbalances in the nutrient status of the trees, induced by fertilisation as determined by foliage analysis, were successfully corrected by adjustment of the amount and composition of the fertiliser mix. Accumulation, followed by depletion, of starch in needles during summer had a pronounced effect on nutrient concentrations, thus making evaluation of nutritional status difficult. A variation in needle dry weight of up to 30% occurred during the growing season. The depletion of starch coincided with the onset of growth and was both earlier and faster in fertilised trees than in control trees. This indicates that the growth rate in non-treated stands was not limited by carbon, but rather by nutrient availability. It is recommended that for diagnostic purposes, several age-classes of foliage are sampled on a number of occasions during the season(s). If sampling is restricted to one age-class of foliage, it is recommended that one-year-old foliage is used, to reduce between-year variation and to enable sampling throughout the season. If nutrient concentrations are assessed on samples taken during the period late spring to early autumn, the carbohydrate content must be determined to allow values to be normalised. Nutrient imbalances can, however, be detected without correcting for carbohydrate reserves, by calculating the ratio between elements. Experience obtained during the first seven seasons has indicated that the nutrient quotients relative to nitrogen, based on detailed studies of plant nutrition, have been more generally valid than the concentrations regarded as optimal for Norway spruce.
20112897|In any assessment of the consequences of environmental pollution, it is of interest to identify the sources in such a way that the future situation may be predicted and the effect of remedial action evaluated. The source term may be expressed in quantitative terms. It is necessary to find corresponding measures of the consequence. Epidemiological studies and basic toxicological research may provide some basis for postulation of dose-response relations once a "dose" can be defined. Pollutant transport models will be needed to link the dose to man to the source term. The paper refers to the concept of "detriment" as defined by the International Commission on Radiological Protection and discusses the relevant quantities in detriment assessments. These will depend on whether the harmful effects are stochastic or non-stochastic.
20113273|We investigated regeneration patterns and dead wood dynamics in high altitude natural Norway spruce Picea abies forest in the Tatra Mountains, Polish Western Carpathians, and used dendrochronological cross-dating to asses the age of fallen logs. We compared the exact time since tree death with physical features reflected in a 5-degree classification of the decomposition stage. In more decayed logs where wood samples were impossible to cross-date we used the maximum age of saplings growing on logs as an indicator of minimum log age. The total volume of dead wood on the forest floor was ca 60 m
20113283|In the last decade, woody detritus, particularly the coarse fraction, has become an important focus of many scientific and management questions. Although the role of this material in providing habitat and carbon cycling is generally understood, perspectives on its role in nutrient cycling are still evolving. Based on what is known to date, forest managers are moving away from a "blanket" removal of all the woody detritus possible to leaving and even enhancing the amounts in forests. This leaves open the question of how much woody detritus is required to sustain ecosystem functions. Initially this has been solved by the application of static minimum standards based on a set of general objectives, but in the future a more dynamic and specific objective-oriented approach should be developed. The increasing number of studies on tree mortality and decomposition are giving a global view of how these processes vary with forest type and climate. These data also provide the basis for a dynamic rather than a static approach to the management of woody detritus. However, to be successful, this perspective must be coupled with a detailed understanding of how certain species and ecosystem processes vary with the amount of woody detritus.
20112912|Aquatic organisms differ in their sensitivity to chemicals, which contributes to the uncertainty in estimates of toxicity with respect to aquatic life. Based on an examination of acute toxicity data from the literature, maximum variation in sensitivity between and within organism groups was shown to be similar, approximately four orders of magnitude. An effort was made to quantify the ability of single test systems as well as test batteries to predict the response of other aquatic species. It was found that the predictive value of a test battery increases with size and that the combination of test organisms included in the battery also affects predictive value. It was further shown that the risk of significantly underestimating toxicity with respect to aquatic life is considerable also when using test batteries consisting of up to five or six members. The use of a predictivity factor (analogous to the application factor) is suggested to compensate for the underestimation of toxicity due to the species-dependent variation in sensitivity. The implications of the results on the design and evaluation of proposed test strategies are briefly discussed.
20113163|Interactions between soil acidification and ectomycorrhizal associations of forest trees are reviewed, placing special emphasis, where appropriate, on recent Swedish research. Mycorrhizal fungi represent an important component of the biodiversity of forest ecosystems and are themselves subject to the influence of acidification. In addition, these symbiotic fungi also possess the capacity to mediate the extent to which their host plants are influenced by soil acidification. The ways in which different mycorrhizal fungi respond to acidification are still very poorly understood. Ectomycorrhizal fungi growing in symbiotic association with different hosts may respond in very different ways from that of a pure fungal culture and the overriding problems of identifying and quantifying them in soil have so far restricted progress in understanding changes occurring in the field. Controlled laboratory experiments have improved our knowledge of interactions involving identified species. Acidification can influence ectomycorrhizas either directly through altered soil pH, or indirectly through changes in soil nutrient availability, metal solubility, or carbon flow. Each of these factors can operate directly on the individual symbionts or exert its effect indirectly on one symbiont by directly influencing the other symbiont. The ability of ectomycorrhizal fungi to mediate the effects of acidification on forest trees is of special significance when discussing changes in mycorrhizal community structure and the possible effects of a given level of soil acidification. This mediation is achieved in a number of ways including modification of the soil chemical environment, altering patterns of plant nutrient uptake and increasing tolerance to, or detoxifying, the increased levels of heavy metals or aluminium often associated with soil acidification. The possible mechanisms behind these interactions are discussed with special reference to increased aluminium concentrations. Methodological problems associated with demonstration of different mechanisms are also discussed. Improved knowledge of the functional basis of observed mycorrhizal responses and effects is a pre-requisite for better understanding and prediction of the dynamics of forest ecosystems and their responses to anthropogenically generated stresses.
20112947|This report summarizes research on macrophytes in an acidified lake ecosystem in southwestern Sweden. The macrophyte flora in Lake Grdsjn is typical of oligotrophic lakes, the most abundant species being Lobelia dortmanna L. and Isoetes lacustris L. Beside these species, Sphagnum is frequent and dominates both with respect to total macrophyte biomass as well as to total production. The biomass in the whole lake was estimated to be 6.5  10 kg (d.w.) corresponding to about 20 g
20112973|Arctic tundra plants grow in one of the most extreme of terrestrial environments. It is an environment of low temperature, short growing season, low light intensity, waterlogged soils, and low nutrient availability. Most of these environmental features are direct or indirect consequences of the low radiation input and low temperature of polar regions. However, arctic plants exhibit a variety of physiological adaptations that minimize the impact of each of these environmental stresses. Consequently, each species in the community is limited by several factors, and the relative importance of each factor in limiting growth differs among species and between years. Thus it is impossible to identify any single factor as being most important in controlling growth of tundra plants: It depends upon the species, and it changes from one year to another. The fact that species differ slightly in their environmental requirements and therefore in the factors which limit growth means that the productivity of individual species changes in compensatory fashion in response to annual variation in climate. Consequently, community productivity is more stable among years than is the productivity of individual species. This contributes to stability of ecosystem processes such as energy flow and nutrient cycling and enables species with slightly different environmental requirements to coexist in the same community.
20112662|The influence of increased phosphorus loading on nitrogen fixation rates was demonstrated by adding phosphate (0.88 g P
20112949|Acidification effects on diatom communities in lakes have been studied by analyses of sediment samples. In the surface sediment (0-1 cm) of 31 lakes in SW Sweden, the frequency ratios of valves of planktonic species to valves of periphytic species decreased with decreasing pH of the lakes. Net annual accumulation values of diatom valves to the bottom of Lake Grdsjn were estimated using quantitative diatom analyses of a sediment core from the lake. These results, which are assumed to reflect past productivity changes, show that an extensive impoverishment of the plankton diatom community has taken place concomitant to the acidification during recent decades. The annual accumulation rate of euplanktonic species, mainly Cyclotella spp., has decreased to 10-40% of the values recorded from the pre-acidification period. In fact, this remaining part apparently represents re-deposited and upwards biotransported older diatom valves. The annual accumulation rate of valves of periphytic species, however, has increased since the lake became acidified. These results of the quantitative diatom analyses indicate that the principal effect of the acidification on the diatom communities is a shift in productivity from the pelagic zone to the littoral and profundal zones and not necessarily decreased total diatom production.
20113281|Forest fragmentation implies increasing edge effects and several studies have shown various responses of common forest organisms near clear-cut edges. For wood-decomposing polyporous fungi however, no edge effect studies have been published in spite of the fact that it is an ecologically very important taxonomic group of which 1/3 of the species occurring in Sweden are classified as threatened. This study considers edge effects in Norway spruce Picea abies dominated key-habitats in Sweden. Key-habitats are small forest patches that are potential or actual habitats for threatened species, and assumed to serve as refugia and sources of dispersal for species negatively affected by forestry. The results show that a group of six spruce log polypores, assumed to indicate high nature conservation value, is less frequent near clearcut edges than in the interior of the key-habitats. This despite the fact that spruce log quantity was higher near the edges. Neither the stage of decomposition nor log size was different between forest edges and interior. Thus, the results indicate that microclimatic conditions are a likely cause of the observed differences.
20112597|Minimal or zero cultivation of agricultural land is being increasingly adopted as standard farm practice in the UK and other countries. During the last twelve years, the influence of various degrees of cultivation including zero tillage on populations of soil invertebrates has been studied in numerous field experiments, mostly on cereal crops. Numbers of soil arthropods have been 120-350% higher in zero cultivation plots than in plots cultivated by various methods. At all sites, earthworm populations have been consistently larger in uncultivated plots than in cultivated ones: in most experiments, Lumbricus terrestris populations were particularly favoured by the lack of cultivation; where this was so the numbers were 150-600% greater in uncultivated plots. Cultivation decreased populations of other species of earthworms much less. Numbers of earthworms, particularly Allolobophora longa and L. terrestris, were strongly correlated with root growth when there was no mechanical cultivation.
20112711|2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD) is an extremely toxic impurity present in 2,4,5-trichlorophenol and in certain herbicide derivatives. This paper is a review of: (a) the sources of TCDD and industrial illnesses resulting from contact with TCDD, (b) environmental exposure to TCDD from various sources, including the use of the herbicide 2,4,5-T, and (c) methodology for detection and quantitation of TCDD in industrial products and environmental samples.
20112508|The incidence of outbreaks of mass proliferation of destructive insects in Siberian forests should be viewed from two angles: a) as a result of the favourable combination of natural factors, and b) as a result of the economic activities of man and of changes in the ecological state of the forest. With this approach, a system for the integrated protection of Siberian forests has been worked out. The system comprises a complex of measures for ascertaining changes occurring in the numbers of pests; short- and long-term forecasting of the possibility of mass proliferation; measures (chemical, biological, microbiological) for the extermination of pests, and assessment of their production efficiency and ecological consequences.
20112848|Sulfuric acid was added to the epilimnion of Lake 223 (Experimental Lakes Area, northwestern Ontario) during the ice-free seasons of 1976 through 1979 to simulate the effects of acid precipitation. As a result of this loading, the sulfate concentration increased from 35 mol
20112733|In 1975 about 3420 metric tons of herbicides were used in Swedish agriculture; about 1160 metric tons were different types of phenoxyacetic compounds. The use of phenoxy herbicides is adapted to type of crop and to the selectivity of the compounds with respect to the weed stand. Phenoxyacetic acids are frequently used on cereals, which grow in winter annual and summer annual forms. Field sprayers are used for the application of phenoxy acids in agriculture. A number of environmental factors exert important influences on the efficacy of their action. The phenoxyacetic acids could be replaced by other herbicides or by other means of control, but these would be more expensive.
20112851|The annual patterns of exchange of reduced sulfur between Buzzards Bay and Great Sippewissett Marsh on Cape Cod, Massachusetts were studied by measuring the concentrations of hydrogen sulfide and total reduced sulfur in flooding and ebbing tidal waters. Once or twice each month two consecutive tides were sampled on an hourly basis. The patterns of concentration are regular and predictable. Buzzards Bay water has low concentrations of reduced sulfur, varying from undetectable to a few micrograms per liter. The waters draining the marsh are enriched in both HS and total reduced sulfur. The concentrations are highest in the last stages of tidal drainage on any individual tide; maximum concentrations range from a few tens to several hundred micrograms per liter. The annual net export of reduced sulfur from the marsh-embayment system amounts to only a few grams S per square meter of marsh surface per year; much less than one per cent of the annual sulfate reduction in the marsh and only 2-4% of the estimated export from the vegetated peat.
20113346|The photosynthetic and morphological responses of ash and beech seedlings were studied along the light gradient in a small, naturally-formed gap and into the surrounding forest in Suserup Skov. Potted seedlings were used to eliminate water and nutrient availability as co-varying factors. Seedlings were placed along perpendicular transects through the center of the gap for the first two years after gap formation. Survival, growth, biomass allocation, net photosynthesis and maximum quantum yield were measured. Differences in the plasticity, defined as the slope of the response, of ash and beech to the gradient of light through the gap were also investigated. Both ash and beech seedlings showed a significant increase in overall growth with increasing irradiance up to almost 8 mol
20112862|Methanogenic bacteria are widespread in various anaerobic ecosystems. Their biogeochemical activity in rocks and waters associated with commercial gas and oil deposits is of particular interest. Methanogenic bacteria numbering up to 250 cells
20112963|In an extensive investigation of an acidified catchment area at Lake Grdsjn, SW Sweden, variables in terrestrial and lake ecosystems were determined. The lake catchment approach enables an evaluation to be made of the relative importance of sediment processes in the functioning of acid lake ecosystems. In this synthesis attempts have been made to quantify sediment buffering, to assess sediment release and retention of heavy metals and phosphorus, and to present an organic carbon budget. The buffer effect of sediment in the acid Lake Grdsjn is small, but may have been more important during the earlier course of acidification. Cation budgets (Ca, Mg, Na, K) and experimental studies indicate that sediment may act as a source of cations in acidified lakes. Cation exchange, together with denitrification and other alkalifying processes in the sediment, maintain interstitial water pH at pH 6.0-6.6, except for the uppermost 0-2 cm of sediment. The sediment in Lake Grdsjn acts as a sink for all analyzed heavy metals, except Mn and Co. Dissolved allochthonous organic carbon is the largest source of carbon. The respiration rate in the sediment is not found to be significantly reduced in acid lakes compared to non-acidified lakes. However, low abundance of detritivorous invertebrates reduces the decomposition rate of leaf litter.
20113228|Among outbreaking species of forest Macrolepidoptera a disproportionately high number of species overwinter as eggs. Also the most serious diprionid sawfly defoliator in pine forest of northern Europe, Neodiprion sertifer, overwinters as eggs. Minimum winter temperatures are probably critical in explaining the outbreak areas of two representative insect pests; European pine sawfly N. sertifer on Scots pine and autumnal moth Epirrita autumnata on mountain birch. The distribution of N. sertifer outbreaks in Finland during 1960-1990 is best explained by the fact that the eggs are killed by temperatures below -36C and, at a finer scale, to some extent also by the frequency of dry and nutrient-poor soils. The topographical distribution of E. autumnata egg survival and, consequently, that of damage susceptible mountain birch forests, depends on minimum winter temperatures and can be efficiently modelled with meteorological information and a digital elevation model in GIS (Geographic Information System). The projections for future climatic change in the northern hemisphere suggest a long trend toward warmer winter temperatures. Consequently, climatic change with increasing winter temperatures may increase the frequency of outbreaks of those forest defoliators overwintering as eggs. The extent of large-scale forest defoliation is an important feed-back of forest ecosystems to climate change.
20112937|The average specific runoff for the Lake Grdsjn catchment was 21.2 l
20112724|TCDD poisoning is characterized by loss of body weight with delayed lethality and by marked interspecies differences with respect to lethal dose and toxic effects. Chloracne-type skin lesions occur in man, monkeys and rabbits. Edema formation occurs predominantly in chickens, whereas rats suffer from severe liver damage; those are the lesions that probably cause death in these species. Thymic atrophy is a consistent finding in TCDD poisoning; and suppression of thymus-dependent cellular immunity, particularly in young animals, may contribute to their death. This may also be true for the endotoxin hypersensitivity that has to date been observed only in mice. The mechanism of the toxic action of TCDD is still unknown, as is the pathogenesis of most lesions. Research efforts on TCDD should concentrate in this area. In particular, the mechanism of the development of chloracne should be investigated: vitamin A deficiency or disturbances in lipid metabolism may play a role in the etiology of this lesion. Similarly, the mode of action of TCDD-induced thymic atrophy should be further pursued. Finally, it would be of interest to investigate whether thrombocytopenia, hemorrhages and thrombosis are the result of endotoxin shock.
20112926|The aims of the Lake Grdsjn project are presented against a background describing the development of research on water acidification, in particular the Swedish research situation. The major problems addressed are: (1) why is Lake Grdsjn acid? (2) biological and chemical properties of a lake prior to liming, and (3) role of sediments in acidified lakes.
20112793|Biological Control Agents have been used in the UK for many years, most of them on a trials clearance basis under the Pesticides Registration Requirements. The recent increase in interest in the use of such agents has meant the development of more formal guidelines for notifying such products. This has recently led the Pesticides Safety Precautions Scheme (PSPS) to propose a set of technical guidelines given as an annex to the paper. These draft guidelines have now been submitted to interested industrial organisations in the UK for comment and subsequent amendment and incorporation into the PSPS. It is hoped that these guidelines should formally become operative by the end of 1979.
20113108|The Northern Wetlands Study (NOWES) is a multidisciplinary investigation designed to assess the importance of northern wetlands as a source/sink of biogenic gases to the atmosphere. The primary emphasis of the project is on the exchange of CH between wetland ecosystems and the atmosphere, but the fluxes of NO,
20112790|The pathogenicity of biological control fungi is reviewed with reference to their infectivity, toxigenicity and allergenicity. The fungi used in biological control are considered against the risks they present to man and animals by inhalation, dermal contact and by ingestion of their spores or metabolites. The stages of risk, the need for quality control and safety testing of the agent, are discussed and suggestions made for an approach to the risk analysis and registration requirements for the control fungi.
20112786|Significant advances have been made in identifying pheromones and other behavior-modifying chemicals from many of the most destructive pests of food and fiber crops in the world. The successful intergration of behavior-mofifying chemicals into pest management systems has not kept pace with this progress. The flow of information for determining the efficacy of a treatment utilizing behavior-modifying chemicals in a pest management system is described. A scenario is developed to replace entirely, toxic chemical insecticides in two major crop ecosystems in California. A brief summary of the critical behavioral and ecological events and the chemical stimuli that are believed to mediate these events for the key insectan pests of the five tree species that comprise the mixed conifer forest is presented. Behavior-modifying chemicals are known for most pests of these tree species except for the cone and seed insects. Only aggregation and sex-pheromones are known and these elicit either attraction or interruption. None are registered to date. Pears were selected as an example of a food crop because ecologically they have much in common with forests, i.e., pests that threaten the life of the tree over the long-term must be considered in addition to those that damage the fruit. Behavior-modifying chemicals have been identified from only 4 out of 26 pests and these are moth sex-pheromones. Treatment of these pests is entirely dependent upon 16 toxic chemicals. Honeybees and predaceous mites and insects are seriously affected by seven of these compounds and they are considered highly toxic to mammals. In both crop systems, behavior-modifying chemicals are proposed to replace toxic chemicals, because they are highly selective in their action, biodegrade rapidly, and to date appear to be non-toxic. Behavior-modifying chemicals have the potential to manipulate selectively a complex insectan and mite fauna. However, a significant research effort will be required to obtain the efficacy, safety and cost data and to identify potentially useful behavior-modifying chemicals in both crop ecosystems.
20112791|A general discussion of the use of predators and parasites for pest control is presented. There are two main approaches for the use of these natural enemies. The first is manipulation of the environment to increase the efficiency of natural enemies. This tactic is especially recommended in cases where disruptive cultural practices result in change to pest status of species that before were not pests. The other approach is to import predators and parasites to control pests of exotic origin. After a discussion on stability of dietary habits in the species used in biological control, it is concluded that only in a few cases risk is involved. In the case of manipulated resident populations of natural enemies risks that may develop can be solved by changing the manipulative techniques, or by abandoning them altogether. In the case of imported species risk is minimized by careful processing of the candidate material in quarantine.
43908645|The detection of genetic variation by gel electrophoresis of enzymes can be applied to the problem of preserving genetic variation in fish species. We briefly review the use of this technique in the detection of genetic variation in salmonid fishes. We discuss the use of alele frequency data estimated via electrophoresis to describe the genetic population structure of fish species. We then use allele frequency data to describe the genetic population structure of rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri) in the western United States. Most of the total genetic variation in rainbow trout is distributed within local populations; a much smaller proportion of the total variation is attributable to differences between local populations. We also discuss the use of electrophoretic data to detect intraspecific or interspecific introgression in native trout populations. Finally, we emphasize the importance of understanding the genetic population structure of threatened fish species in order to preserve valuable genetic variation.
20113295|Sustainable Forest Management (SFM) represents a vision for the use of forests based on satisfying ecological, economic and social values. In response to unsustainable use of products and services we identify three phases in the ongoing development of SFM. The first is based on sustained yield of wood products where humans dominate nature. Second, there is at present in Europe a phase based on multiple use sustaining primarily wood production, but also with attempts to accommodate new issues such as biodiversity and recreation. Third, a future phase is envisioned with sustainable social-ecological systems inspired by and maintaining authentic natural or cultural processes where humans and nature coexist. The current starting point for trajectories towards the SFM vision, however, varies considerably among countries and regions with different socio-economic settings and ecosystems. Focussing on forest biodiversity, we discuss approaches for making the ecological dimension of the SFM vision operational in practice. International and national policy-makers, the forest and forest products sectors, non-governmental organisations and scientists are major actors trying to interpret international and national policies in this field. So far the main tool has been defining criteria and indicators for SFM. At present different actors also ask for performance targets and tools allowing evaluation of the degree to which ecological sustainability is actually achieved. Finally, we summarise prerequisites for achieving the SFM vision's ecological dimension including: 1) a societal mindset built on the idea of active adaptive management where land use methods are viewed as experiments designed to test hypotheses about how the amount of habitat affect different elements of biodiversity, which allows 2) formulation of performance targets with which results from monitoring can be compared, and sustainability checked. If necessary, this enables 3) spatially explicit management and zoning at multiple spatial and temporal scales to resolve competing interests. Additionally, 4) there is a need for improved integration of different actors' activities allowing continuous mutual learning among actors and the public, and 5) case studies such as "model forests" where novel approaches are developed and communicated.
20112816|Death and replacement of fine roots were investigated by core sampling throughout the growing season in a 120-year-old Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) stand at Ivantjrnsheden in Central Sweden. Both the fine-root biomass and necromass (diameter &lt 2 mm) of the most important species, P. sylvestris, Calluna vulgaris and Vaccinium vitis-idaea, varied considerably during the season. Pooled averages of 123, 62 and 158 g dw
20112572|An earthworm classification in ecological categories based on morphological features (organs showing functional adaptations) on spatial distribution, on soil humidity and on feeding habits was introduced in 1969 for didactic reasons. Subsequently, this classification has proved to be a powerful tool of ecological synthesis. It distinguishes three extreme types of adaptative evolution (endogeous forms, epigeous forms, anecics); their definitions are completed. They are three poles between which earthworms could be put in order. According to the past (which involves some evolutionary ways), and the level of adaptation into a site (new or old settelments) there is congruence between earthworm features (feeding habits, reproduction, extreme factor resistances, mobility, size, respiration, demography, behaviour, predator pressures, etc.) and their environment (available niches, food, humidity, etc.). Ecological categories are the traduction of evolutionary earthworm strategies and all bioecological features. The morpho-functional interpretation, always feasible, and some ecological, biological, physiological measurements made in favorable circumstances validate this classification. This holistic classification provides the opportunity to judge the relative adaptation of a monospecific local population to its environment. Among such adaptations a new making of resistance of earthworms is described: the "enkystment" by cocoons.
20112589|Studies were carried out for five years in fields with simple plant rotations: rye for grain followed by rye for green forage and potatoes. The average yearly total primary production of the rye field was 5418 kcal
20112833|In connection with field experiments on the effects of insect grazing on growth of young Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) trees some tentative hypotheses on the effect of defoliation on growth and carbohydrate dynamics in the pine are presented. The hypotheses are supported by preliminary results from artificial defoliation experiments performed at Ivantjrnsheden, Central Sweden, in 1976-77. Compensating mechanisms, viz. improved water status, increased rate of photosynthesis and increased mobilization of starch reserves seem to occur, delaying growth reduction until a high degree of defoliation has been attained. The compensation is more effective when trees are defoliated early in summer than later in the season.
20113192|Although plant species of the Arctic and Subarctic have evolved a range of adaptations to survive the harsh abiotic environment there, such adaptations are not always successful, and the population dynamics of many arctic plant species are characterised by infrequent and/or intermittent recruitment from sexual reproduction. Plant traits and population structures which we observe today are the result of selection pressures exerted in past environmental conditions often different from those occurring at present. We use specific examples from research based at the Abisko Scientific Research Station in the Subarctic, a critical ecotone in the context of future climate change, to speculate and provoke discussion on some implications of various forms of life cycles and population dynamics in the Subarctic. We specifically address the potential immortality of genets in the context of environmental stability and we consider the implications for plants of high stress and disturbance in some habitats. We present and discuss apparent paradoxes in the between-year variability of flowering and in the longer-term population dynamics in the Subarctic. Deterministic, non-plastic plant growth and great mobility of clonal plants are presented as alternative strategies to survive subarctic environments. We show how these strategies can be facilitated by density dependent survival, in contrast to density dependent mortality associated with temperate latitudes, and complex physiological controls within clones to reduce intraclonal and interspecific competition. Finally, we infer likely responses of some subarctic plant populations to predicted future climatic changes suggesting that slow clonal growth and slow migration of boreal species compared with the predicted rate of climate change will lead to a situation in which the ecological memory in these plant populations is even greater than at present.
20113169|An integrated study of the chemical and hydrological processes involved in the acidification of soil and groundwater has been conducted in order to estimate future changes in the groundwater chemistry caused by changes in acid deposition in relation to other acidifying processes. The project included field studies, development of analytical methods and hydrological as well as hydrochemical modelling. An improved method for the measurement of aluminium speciation was developed. The aluminium species of the greatest toxicological importance -- "quickly reacting aluminium" -- are analyzed by kinetic discrimination in a flow system (the Flow Injection Analysis-method). The field studies were carried out in five areas (three small catchments, one hill slope and three springs), representing different types of till and with various amounts of acid load. An integrated dynamic model was developed by combining a modification of the existing hydrological model PULSE with two new hydrochemical models, SAFE and PROFILE. The integrated model was used for prediction of the response in the groundwater chemistry to different future acid deposition scenarios. Critical loads for shallow groundwater were calculated using the PROFILE model. Comparing the field areas with past surveys of soil and water acidification in Scandinavia shows that they represent the main features of till areas. Cross-combinations of the studied areas and the acid deposition pattern are commonly found. It seems likely, that as the acidification of the soil profile has reached c. 3 m depth in Frahall, southwestern Sweden, many wells in this part of the country with a shallower groundwater table have seen a drastic acidification during the last decades. A catchment with the characteristics of the Masbyn site with its surficial water pathways transplanted to southwestern Sweden would have experienced an early acidification of the surface water and is representative of the catchments of many long-time acidified lakes. A special, though common, case is that of catchments with very shallow soils on rocks found along the west coast of Sweden, as well as in Srlandet in Norway, where the breakthrough to the surface waters resulted in the first acidified lakes as early as in the 50's and 60's. Such environments are present in the upper reaches of Stubbetorp. Even the groundwater in the underlying rock may then be acidified. The field investigations and the modelling give a picture of the status and development of the acidification of soil and shallow groundwater in till areas. The budgets compiled from the fieldwork indicate that the weathering is insufficient to maintain the buffering in the investigated areas. At current deposition rates stores of base cations will be almost depleted after a few decades. The base cation stores at Frahall and Masbyn are sufficient for buffering for only 10-20 yr, while at Stubbetorp and Risfallet they may last for c. 50 yr. The scenarios developed through modelling are equally bleak, unless there are drastic reductions in acidic depositions. The acidification models have been validated by independent estimates of weathering rates (PROFILE) and by comparison with historical data (SAFE). The comparison with the past acidification history in Scandinavia confirms that the main features of the predictions made in this work can be relied upon.
20113121|The closed chamber method was employed for the measurements of dimethyl sulfide (DMS) fluxes from paddy field plots (22.5 m, depth 1 m) into the atmosphere, from April to Oct 1989. The chamber was constructed from polycarbonate with internal height of 100 cm, covering-sectional area of 900 cm. Air samples were collected by using vacuumed 300 ml glass bottles. The DMS concentration of the sample was determined by using GC/FPD. Significant diurnal variations of DMS fluxes were observed in both gray lowland soil and light-colored Andosol paddy fields. DMS fluxes were higher in daytime and lower from evening through morning, and correlated to the variation of both solar radiation strength and air temperature. We also observed considerable seasonal variation of DMS fluxes from both fields during the cultivation period. The maximum DMS emission rate was measured just before heading stage of the rice plant. Annual emission rates of the DMS from paddy fields ranged from 4.1 to 7.3 mg
20112856|Denitrification potentials were measured using an acetylene technique in four north-central New Hampshire hardwood forest stands: 2, 3, 30, and 50+ years since clear cutting. The procedure used involved the following steps: (1) short term (less than 2.5 hr) incubation of freshly taken, unamended soil in a closed vessel with an atmosphere containing 10% acetylene in nitrogen; (2) periodic sampling of gas in the incubation vessel and storage of the gas samples in Vacutainer tubes; and (3) analysis of gas samples for nitrous oxide concentrations using
20112600|Bacterial and protozoan populations in the soil near the roots of spring barley crops, i.e., in the rhizosphere, were estimated at regular intervals before and after harvest in two adjacent fields near Aberdeen in 1974 and 1975. Estimates were also made of the total nitrogen, ammonium nitrogen, nitrate nitrogen, and total carbon in this soil. The roots were assessed for the severity of take-all disease, which is caused by the fungus, Gaeumannomyces graminis (Sacc.) Arx &amp; Olivier var. tritici Walker. During the growth of the barley crops, the bacterial and the trophic protozoan populations gradually increased in the soil near the roots to 10 and 10 per g oven-dry soil respectively. These increases were accompanied by changes in the levels of ammonium and nitrate nitrogen. There was also an increase in the incidence and severity of take-all disease with a peak just before harvest. Immediately after harvest, there was a reduction in the size of the bacterial (to 10 or 10
20113031|The interrelation between agriculture and the environment is treated within the economic framework of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the European Community. For this purpose, the development of the CAP and some technical and political aspects that should be taken into account in further policy making are discussed and the goals of the CAP reconsidered. It is then analysed to what extent a policy that combines an increased market orientation with an increased solidarity with the agriculturally less endowed regions may form a basis for reconciling agricultural and environmental demands.
20112669|Azotobacter species were found to be relatively abundant in Iraqi soils. Blue-green algae were also ubiquitous, but occurred in low numbers probably because of low moisture contents. Salinity and pH do not appear to limit growth of Azotobacter or blue-green algae in Iraqi soils.
20113297|A literature analysis was undertaken to assess the impacts of forest practices on the biological diversity of Canadian boreal forests. The analysis was based on the three key questions identified by the BorNet International Steering Committee: a) How much and where should forests be fully protected in reserves? b) How can management effectively restore/recreate/maintain important features required to conserve biodiversity? c) How can we determine the effectiveness of these biodiversity conservation efforts? The information gathered by this process was supplemented by workshops held in three different locations in Canada. The literature review and workshops revealed that research on the conservation of biodiversity in the boreal forests of Canada has been addressing a small subset of important questions, rather than looking at more general issues associated with landscape-scale biodiversity. As a result, many important conservation issues may have been missed, such as the need to maintain habitat for species dependent on fire successions. A major gap is the absence of direction to forest managers that would aid in improving forest management and meeting biodiversity conservation objectives in the boreal. Species with limited dispersal ability and specialized habitat requirements have not been the focus of field-based biodiversity research to date, and of those species that have been studied, very few studies have assessed effects of forestry at more than the stand scale. This is despite the emphasis that has been placed on large-scale disturbance patterns in boreal forests. More focussed studies are required, and forest management should move to an active adaptive management model in which every opportunity is taken to link operations to information gathering.
20113170|In 1968, experiments with application of sulphuric acid were laid out as a supplement to the project "Optimum nutrition experiments in Swedish forest stands". For a long time the trees appeared little affected by the rather crude treatment but several soil chemical and biological properties were changed by the treatments, both in the field and when simulated in laboratory experiments. The experiments were therefore continued and extended, for example by using elementary sulphur as acidifying agent. Independent research groups have found changes in soil biology and vegetation. The lower nitrogen treatments in the optimum nutrition experiments were in the same range as the annual deposition in areas with intensive agriculture in middle Europe. The observed changes in soil chemistry and biology, as well as in tree growth and vegetation, are briefly described. It is concluded that several changes, including a case of short-term increase in tree growth, might be ascribed to shock effects of the sulphuric acid applications. On the other hand, reduced soil respiration, persisting up to 11 yr after the last acid application, is an example of a chronic effect. In many cases elementary sulphur applications had effects similar to those of sulphuric acid, but weaker, and shock effects were less likely here. In all cases nitrogen applications increased tree growth, but the larger amounts (60-90 kg N
20112606|A simulation model was developed for the carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus content of bacteria and medium in a chemostat. Cell components distinguished included the structural component, synthetic machinery, building blocks and intermediates, carbon reserves, ammonium, orthophosphate, and polyphosphate. Growth, the uptake of substrates, and the production of waste products were related to physiological status as indicated by the amounts of the various cell components. The model was fitted to data from chemostats on the chemical composition of bacteria growing in carbon-, nitrogen- and phosphorus-limiting media. The model was used to explore the consequences of predation on bacterial populations. In a carbon-limiting medium, predation (without the return of nutrients to the medium by the predator) increased the rate of uptake of ammonium in spite of a decrease in bacterial biomass. In a nitrogen-limiting medium predation decreased both biomass and the rate of nitrogen uptake. These results were accounted for by the effect of growth rate on bacterial nitrogen demand. In a carbon-limiting medium the return of ammonium and phosphate by the predator did not change the effect of predation on bacteria. But in a nitrogen-limiting medium the return of nutrients decreased the effect of predation on biomass, and stimulated respiration and ammonium uptake by the bacteria. The effect of growth rate on the chemical composition of bacteria was proposed as a possible explanation of the stimulatory effect of predators on bacteria.
20112836|The dynamic interaction between nitrogen mineralization, immobilization, leaching, and uptake by roots in the plant-soil system of an old Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) forest in Central Sweden was analyzed by means of a mechanistic model, N1NIT. Submodels on decomposition, uptake by roots and ion exchange were joined into an integrated model. Outputs from it were thereafter compared to measured processes and state variables. The simulations depict a system with a very tight nitrogen circulation. Mineralization is on most occasions immediately balanced by root uptake. The level of mineral nitrogen resulting from this balance is determined by water content and root density, which thereby have direct influence on the leaching. A mineralization maximum is always reached in early autumn as result of a successive growth of the decomposer biomass during summer. Temperature and moisture conditions in soil have a great effect on the annual accumulated mineralization and uptake by roots. Furthermore, in summer the climate influences the build-up of a microbial biomass, and in early autumn the immediate effect on its activity is most pronounced. Field observations support, to some extent, the image given by the model, but there are important contradictions. The seasonal development of the inorganic nitrogen compartment in the model appears, for example, less realistic, and the possibility of an imperfect representation of nitrogen transfers in immobilization and humification are indicated. The difficulty in predicting the between-year variation of decomposer biomass suggests a formulation of mineralization for long-term models, which should be less dependent on organism properties than in the present model.
20113279|We measured the amount and quality of coarse woody debris, and surveyed polypores and threatened saproxylic insects in a spruce-dominated old-growth forest in Vodlozero National Park, Russian Karelia -- one of the largest remaining areas of virgin forest in northern Europe. The inventory area was 1 km. We compared the polypore data from Vodlozero to data that was previously collected in 12 old-growth forest areas (sizes 600-9100 ha) in eastern Finland using the same inventory method. The average volume of coarse woody debris was 87 m
20112792|In 1978, the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency initiated an effort to devise and implement a program for regulation of Biological Pesticides. These were defined as microorganisms used as pesticides, plus certain naturally-occurring biochemicals such as pheromones, insect hormones and plant growth regulators. Chemical derivatives of naturally-occurring biochemicals were not considered biologicals. A major element in the program is promulgation of guidelines for data required for registration of biological pesticides in the U. S. The U. S. approach to preregistration testing of biological pesticides is based on a low expectation that potential adverse effects to humans, domestic animals or non-target organisms will be observed on testing. A tier test approach will be taken. The first tier will consist of tests to ascertain human and non-target organism effects potential. If no potential for effects is observed no further testing will be required. If potential effects are observed, the second tier, tests to ascertain exposure, e. g. residue and environmental chemistry data, will be required. In the effects testing of most microorganisms the basic hazard of concern is infection. Use of "maximum hazard testing" relative to dose, route of exposure and test species will be developed in a test battery suitable to draw valid conclusions as to infective spectrum and virulence. If useful, in vitro tests can substitute for in vivo protocols. Where mode of action is toxin elaboration, preformed or elaborated in the course of infection, standard toxicological test batteries will be applied to the toxins unless chemical structure or other parameters allow a conclusion as to hazard without such tests. The same would apply to the naturally-occurring biochemicals. In defining test batteries tier approaches will be used if appropriate.
20112667|The activity of methane-oxidizing bacteria was studied in a rice field. Rates of oxidation of methane were measured because nitrogen fixation by these bacteria cannot be assayed by employing the acetylene-ethylene test due to inhibition of methane oxidation by acetylene. The diffusion rate of methane in the soil was limiting its oxidation in the aerobic-anaerobic interfacial region at the soil-water interface. Probably due to lack of oxygen, bacterial oxidation of methane in the root-soil interfacial region was of minor importance in terms of the amount of methane available. As a consequence of the low rates of methane oxidation, methane-dependent nitrogen fixation will not be of appreciable magnitude in rice fields.
20112564|The distribution of woodlice and millipedes in a dune grassland ecosystem have been examined for indications of spatial separation which may be due to specialisation in their areas of search for food. At Spum Head in East Yorkshire, Cylindroiulus latestriatus (Diplopoda) is vertically separated from the three isopod species. Armadillidium vulgare, Porcellio scaber and Philoscia muscorum. It is found deeper in the soil profile. The woodlice are mainly confined to the surface sand and litter layer but show different habitat selection. P. muscorum prefers stable dune conditions, whereas P. scaber and A. vulgare are more abundant in the mobile conditions of the dune crest. However, the woodlice, particularly A. vulgare and P. scaber, show little microhabitat partitioning within any one area. Possible explanations for this consistent with feeding site specialisation are discussed.
20113191|The relative somatic cost of reproduction (RSC) is compared with reproductive effort (RE) for some subarctic plants in an attempt to determine whether the RSC is of the same magnitude as the RE. The relationship between RSC and RE varied between species, between habitats within species and to some extent between resources. In some cases RSC was found to be substantially less than RE. Possible physiological mechanisms enhancing resource acquisition in reproductive plants are discussed. We suggest that detailed analyses of resource economics during reproduction may help to identify the conditions under which plants can compensate for their reproductive resource investments and thus avoid reproductive costs. It is also discussed whether plants in cold environments i.e. at high altitudes or latitudes, should differ from plants in other environments in their relative reproductive investments.
20112659|A balance sheet of combined nitrogen for the oceans suggests that fixation might supply as much as 0.1  10 metric tons annually but uncertainties in the estimates of losses by denitrification and sedimentation mean that this figure is extremely tentative. Combined nitrogen is a major limiting factor for marine phytoplankton growth, conditions in the sea can sometimes be favourable for nitrogen fixation and it would be expected that organisms possessing this property would have a great biological advantage. Although heterotrophic nitrogen-fixing micro-organisms are present in the open sea, their activity seems to be minimal and aerobic photosynthetic nitrogen fixation is more important. Although absolute proof is still lacking, it seems certain that non-heterocystous algae of the genus Trichodesmium (Oscillatoria) are able to fix nitrogen and make the major contribution. The endophytic blue-green alga Richelia intracellularis is locally important as a nitrogen-fixer but otherwise heterocystous blue-green algae, which seem to be so well adapted to conditions in the sea, are inexplicably sparse in the open oceans.
20112566|Seasonal changes in the numbers, biomass and proportion of different size classes of dominant Collembola species were compared in two forest types: Vaccinio myrtilli-Pinetum and Tilio-Carpinetum. Seasonal differences in the population dynamics support the earlier suggestion that the rate of food supply, which is indirectly related to the continuous leaf fall in the pine forest and to the temporarily abundant, autumnal leaf fall in the deciduous forest, has a considerable effect on Collembola numbers. All sampled individuals were classified into the four size-groups (&lt 0.5 mm (I), 0.5-0.9 mm (II), 1.0-2.0 mm (III) and &gt 2.0 mm (IV)), and the proportion of particular age (size) groups in the population was analysed in different habitats. The ratio between the numbers of successive developmental stages (size groups) can be used as an index to compare the reduction of species under different environmental conditions. This is an indirect index of reduction. Its advantage lies in the fact that it is easy to calculate, and its changes do not depend on other factors.
20112660|Roots of Spartina alterniflora are sites of bacterial N fixation (acetylene reduction). Nitrogenase activity (NA) of washed excised roots was relatively insensitive to differences in gaseous O concentrations over the range 2.5 to 21% O, except when the root samples were vigorously shaken. In the latter case, a pronounced maximum in NA occurred at low pO. Washed excised roots exhibited maximum NA at incubation temperatures of 25-30C. Other plant parts including stems and leaves exhibited substantial NA, and NA was demonstrated in short term in situ incubations of intact plant systems with CH. Microaerophilic and facultatively anaerobic CH-reducing bacteria were isolated from roots. Cross sections of roots revealed bacteria adjacent to the interior of cell walls in the outermost cortical layer. The nature of the root-bacterial association is discussed in the context of the unusual internal and external environment of S. alterniflora roots.
20113309|We describe the relationship between the distance to clearcut edge and the relative abundance of hole-nesting passerine birds in old deciduous forest in Lithuania. Bird density data was collected from 358 line transects in mature forest stands adjacent to 50 clearcuts. The red-breasted flycatcher Ficedula parva was studied in more detail by counting singing males in 44 additional mature forest stands. The abundance of the great tit Parus major, marsh tit P. palustris, and blue tit P. caeruleus was significantly higher near the clearcut- old forest edges than further inside the forest. The nuthatch Sitta europea and the pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca showed no significant trend in relation to edge. By contrast, the abundance of the treecreeper Certhia familiaris, coal tit Parus ater, and red-breasted flycatcher was significantly higher in the mature forest interior of the deciduous stands. For the great tit, blue tit and red-breasted flycatcher the widest edge-influenced zone was observed in medium-aged (4-9 yr) edges, while for the treecreeper and coal tit the widest edge-influenced zone was observed in old (10-20 yr) edges. The red-breasted flycatcher showed the strongest negative edge effect of all species, being absent from the vicinity of clearcuts (&lt50 m) and confined to the interior of forest stands. The probability of red-breasted flycatcher holding a breeding territory was high if stands were &gt 40 ha large, had an average stocking level of &gt0.8, and if the shape of the stand tended towards that of a circle. The reduced availability of large deciduous forest patches caused by current forest management in Lithuania may affect negatively the populations of the forest-interior species identified in this study.
20112829|Simultaneous samplings of soil organisms were performed during a 14-month-period in a 120-year-old Scots pine forest. About 50 microfungal and more than 200 animal species were identified. Abundance, hyphal length, biomass and respiratory metabolism were estimated for bacteria, fungi, protozoans, nematodes, rotifers, tardigrades, enchytraeids, micro- and macroarthropods, which were also classified into trophic categories. Annual mean biomass of fungi was high (120 g dw
20112930|The land-use history of the Lake Grdsjn area, southwestern Sweden, during the last two centuries is described with emphasis on outfield grazing and on forestry and forest development. The Lake Grdsjn catchment has been entirely an outfield area. No signs of agriculture were seen. Outfield grazing, not very intense, has occurred but ceased around 1950. Open Calluna heaths never developed in the catchment area. Compared with the whole parish of Ucklum and the rest of the province of Bohusln, the sheep and cattle in the Lake Grdsjn area have followed the same long-term trends but at lower stocking levels. At the same time, the forestry in the area was characterized by a selective system of cutting. These activities probably created a forest with a fairly low density. In a large exploitation cutting around 1904, concerning at least the areas surrounding Lake Grdsjn and southwestern Lake Gaffeln, most of the timber was cut but small trees were left. The present forest is a product of the growth of the residual trees combined with man-made and natural regeneration. Large clear-feelings occurred first in the 1960s in the surroundings of Lake Hstevatten. Only minor parts of the surroundings of Lake Grdsjn have been clear-felled during the last 15 yr. Today, Norway spruce is the dominating tree species, but the material available does not permit conclusions on whether this is a recent feature. However, spruce has probably occurred spontaneously in the area for at least several centuries.
20112578|Simple and complex carbohydrates are mostly sorbed by clay minerals in the soil; most of the microbial cells are also sorbed under natural conditions. Tests were made in order to prove the influence of clays on glucose utilization by some microorganisms. The mineralization of glucose by a mixed population of soil microorganisms and by some pure cultures of microorganisms was stimulated in the presence of clay minerals. The RQ-values also increased due to a stronger glycolytic activity. Clay minerals, when added to the nutrient media on glucose basis, enhanced the yield of the biomass and the production of some secondary metabolites substantially. Experimental results with various complex carbohydrates obtained by other authors and also the ecological importance of the interactions between microorganisms and clay minerals in the carbon cycle are discussed.
20112896|Since the publication of SCOPE 12 in 1978 there has been much activity, national and international, in the new subject of ecotoxicology. Many of the programmes and their interrelations will be described; they attest to the interest in, and usefulness of, the scientific discipline of ecotoxicology. In spite of this seeming success the development of the intellectual content of the subject has been disappointingly slow. It was implied in SCOPE 12 that much development was required in the concepts and methods of assessing the state of well-being of an ecosystem. Some progress has been made toward this end by two further SCOPE projects, just completed, viz., -- SCOPE 21, "Effects of Pollutants at the Ecosystem Level", and -- SCOPE 22, "Appraisal of Tests to Predict the Behaviour of Environmental Chemicals". Both of these illustrate how to apply the principles of ecotoxicology to real-life problems and thus make valuable contributions. But a new approach to assessing the well-being of an ecosystem as a whole is required. I will suggest one and describe the essential elements required to develop it.
20112571|The microarthropod faunas of soils and moss cushions were investigated in North West Sierra Nevada from an altitude of 1460 m to 3350 m. Mites (84% of all sampled individuals) and Collembola (12%) were the main elements of the fauna, though 11 other groups (4%) were also represented in the samples. Qualitative and quantitative differences in the faunas were found in the different localities. Collembola species and populations, particularly euedaphic forms, decreased markedly as the soil moisture regime became drier (in relation to local rainfall, snowfall and drying winds).
20112875|During growth in the presence of various rocks (granite, aplite, bituminous schist) containing uranium, fungi (Aspergillus and Penicillium) are able to take up large amounts of uranium from rocks in their mycelium. This uranium immobilization is not correlated with large microbial solubilization of uranium in the medium or with mycelium production. It depends on the nature of the rocks and on their uranium contents, but also essentially on the growth conditions (i.e., deficiency of the nutrient medium in growth factors and soluble mineral salts). In deficient nutrient medium, mycelial growth was slower than in non-deficient medium, but microbial U immobilization was higher, reaching 2.8 mg U
20112697|Spirillum lipoferum grows poorly on sugars but vigorously on malate, lactate or succinate. Intact organisms or cell-free extracts oxidize sugars very slowly but rapidly oxidize malate, lactate, succinate and pyruvate. The organism grows well in air when supplied with ammonia but poorly when it must fix N. However, at a pO between 0.005 and 0.007 atm, S. lipoferum utilized N effectively. Nitrogenase in S. lipoferum is repressed by ammonia, but the system can be derepressed with methionine sulfoximine. Deadenylylation activates glutamine synthetase. Cell-free extracts capable of reducing CH have been prepared from S. lipoferum. S. lipoferum invades the roots of a variety of grasses and is capable of reducing CH in association with the plants. Field studies in Wisconsin indicate that such infection and CH reduction can occur under temperate conditions. Aseptic corn (Zea mays) plants have been infected with S. lipoferum inside the roots. Reduction of CH is more vigorous in excised roots incubated for a few hours at a reduced pO than in intact plants, freshly harvested roots or in soil cores containing relatively undisturbed roots. Field tests with corn have indicated that inoculation with S. lipoferum gives only small increases in yield under Wisconsin conditions.
20112879|This study dealt with the complex investigation of biogeochemical processes under the conditions of anaerobic diagenesis, the calculation of carbon consumption for all these processes, and the working out of the material-isotopic balance of sulfur and carbon. The data for the investigations were collected during the 26th cruise of the research vessel "Academik Kurchatov" in summer 1978. The research area was situated between latitude 59096 and 54232 North and longitude 13406 and 24099 West. As a result of bacterial reduction of sulfate the upper horizon of muds (0-5 cm) generates, on average
20112764|The Stordalen mire at Abisko, North Sweden, is a 25 ha large peatland underlain by silt. Underneath an active layer of seasonal thaw the soils are perennially frozen. In general, the peat shows a low degree of humification. Differences in relative decomposition, as revealed by absorbency determinations, are related to the microtopography. The organic material shows a very large pore volume, locally more than 96%. The pore shape tends to be vertically oriented in the upper 7-8 cm, whereas a transformation to horizontally oriented pores is evident below 20 cm depth. The peat layer averages 30 cm thickness over the mire and shows a transition layer of 3-20 cm above the mineral soil. Bulk densities of peat are 0.06-0.15 g
20112692|A fluorescein isothiocyanate labeled antiserum (FA) against an isolate of Beijerinckia sp. was prepared. This FA was found to be highly specific as shown by negative reaction when used for staining 6 species of Azotobacter, 4 species of Beijerinckia and 44 unidentified bacteria isolated from a spectrum of soils and rhizospheres. FA tagging allowed the growth assessment of the bacterium in the rice spermosphere and rhizosphere despite the presence of the whole soil microbial population. The colonization of different zones of these habitats by Beijerinckia sp. was studied.
20113157|Nutrient and chlorophyll content, ultrastructural changes, photosynthesis, stem growth and biomass were studied in Norway spruce, Picea abies, exposed to three different concentrations of ozone for five seasons (1985-89) in open-top chambers. The treatments were charcoal-filtered air (CF), non-filtered, ambient air (NF) and non-filtered air enriched with ozone (NF+). The results show that ozone can change the ultrastructure of needles, decrease the content of chlorophyll and decrease the rate of photosynthesis, and that the extent of these changes depends on the length of exposure and the age of the needles and shoots. No significant effects of ozone on above-ground biomass were observed. Based on the results on photosynthesis, an attempt was made to model the canopy photosynthesis of 8 and 89 yr old trees. The results indicate that the ambient ozone concentrations in Sweden can reduce the canopy photosynthesis, and that the effect is small in young trees and becomes greater in old trees, mainly because of the different proportions of needle age classes. This paper is a summary document of the results, some of which have already been published elsewhere.
20113307|This study reports thresholds for the amount of habitat needed for individuals and local breeding (=lekking) populations of black grouse Tetrao tetrix and capercaillie T. urogallus in boreal forest. I also examine the effects of the forest age distribution on the abundance of the two species at local and regional scales. Using systematic surveys of displaying males and forest landscape data, the minimum habitat patch size requirements for presence of black grouse and capercaillie was found to be 0.2 and 0.8 km for single males, and 0.9 and 2.2 km for lekking males, respectively. In large patches of suitable habitat the density of lekking males was 5
20113134|The environmental influences on seasonal and inter-annual carbon allocation patterns in pines are discussed in terms of processes. We emphasise that carbon allocation is the outcome of many processes: assimilation, translocation, respiration, growth, internal biochemical conversions, storage and hormone synthesis. We review the variety of approaches to modelling carbon allocation during indeterminate growth, and highlight aspects of determinate growth in pines that none of the models is yet able to address.
20112890|The "total"
20112770|Tillers of Andromeda polifolia L. were sampled thrice daily on 18-22 July and 19-23 August 1974 from two microsite types on a permafrost mire at Stordalen (Abisko), Sweden. Estimates of
20112823|The major ions in rain and soil water were monitored during the growing seasons of 1975 and 1976 in a Scots pine stand in Central Sweden. Weekly sampling was conducted using funnel collectors for rainfall and litter layer leachate and tension lysimeters for mineral soil leachate. Estimates of water flow for calculation of ion flow in the soil were obtained from a hydrological model. Large amounts of Na in the solution of the mineral soil were considered to be a long-term result of weathering. The solution was enriched with the internally circulating elements K, Ca and Mg in the litter layer. The input of K was especially large in spring and summer. NH was released from surface litter during summer, but effectively immobilised in autumn. NO in rainfall was intercepted in the litter layer during all seasons. The nitrogen flow from the litter layer was one of the few examples where the inflow was not completely controlled by water flow. The very small nitrogen flow through the mineral soil indicated a tight nitrogen cycle. The stand was accumulating nitrogen during the two years of investigation. Another notable observation was that H concentrations in the mineral soil were high early in the year but decreased later.
20112936|The environmental isotope oxygen-18 was used as a tracer to separate stream discharge into flows originating from groundwater and fresh meltwater or rainwater. Three streamlets, with drainage areas of between 0.03 and 0.04 km, were studied during snowmelt in 1980 and two of them in the summer of 1982. The major part of the streamflow, at runoff events generated by snowmelt as well as rainfall, originated from groundwater. Of the total discharged water volumes in the spring flood of 1980, the fraction of groundwater in the streams ranged between 0.67 and 0.80. The accuracy of these fractions was estimated to  0.20. During the summer runoff events the fraction of groundwater ranged between 0.81 and 0.95, with an estimated accuracy of  0.10. The extent of discharge areas for groundwater was estimated from the discharged volumes of fresh water as compared to the measured amount of rainfall and the reduction of the water equivalent of the snowpack. During the spring flood, a calculated fraction of discharge area of 0.16 in one of the basins agreed well with a field survey. During the summer events, the fraction calculated ranged between 0.04 and 0.004 of the basins.
20113200|The impact of climatic variation on growth, flowering, and survival of the arctic-alpine cushion plant, Diapenia lapponica, was investigated along a snow-melt gradient at Latnjajaure, N Swedish Lapland, over a 5 yr period. During the study period (1990-94) the live biomass of D. lapponica in permanently marked control plots at the study site declined by 22% and their flowering by 55%. Many old (&gt50 yr) cushions died off completely during the study period, and little or no recruitment was recorded; these changes are almost irreversible as the species is extremely slow-growing. Snow-cover was the main determinant of performance in the D. lapponica community, and the thickness and duration of the snow-pack influence on flower production and survival. Most of the recorded loss in live phytomass and flower production was accounted for by specimens inhabiting the most wind-exposed part of the gradient, with thin winter snow cover and early melt-off. The onset of thawing in the area has been taking place extremely early during the last three seasons, in accordance with circumpolar trends in increasing spring temperatures and progressively earlier snow-melt. The Diapensia plants responded by increasingly early virescence, and suffered badly from subsequent June blizzards that killed off vegetative shoot apices and expanding flower buds. The species reaches its lowest level of frost tolerance around midsummer. In more sheltered situations, with much thicker snow-pack and later emergence of the plant cover, little or no damage was observed. The trend of increasing winter precipitation resulted in thick snow-packs in wind-protected sites during the study period, and hence late melt-off in these sites. The D. lapponica cushions under these circumstances experienced a very short growing season, and responded by low flower bud production and frequent postponing of final bud expansion to subsequent seasons. This cushion plant species shows superior properties as a climatic indicator, and the investigation provides one of very few present records on the impacts of climate change on the tundra plant cover.
20112982|Appropriate management of microbial populations in soil can reduce leakage of excess nutrients from the rooting zone and enhance the fertilizer use efficiency and agroecosystem production. Manipulation of the microbial habitat by varying residue and tillage management is an effective and practicable way to manage soil microorganisms. Aggregation, pore space and preferential flow are strongly influenced by cultivation. The architecture of the soil structure can determine the habitability for soil microorganisms and nutrient fluxes through agroecosystems. Soil organic matter availability to microorganisms is related to its position within the soil matrix. A simple hierarchical model for soil aggregation can explain many aspects of changes in soil organic matter aggradation and degradation. Likewise, four hierarchical pore categories are presented which relate to the aggregate structure of the soil and provide a basis for predicting how soil pore networks influence ecological relationships among organisms in soil detrital food webs. Macroporosity is sensitive to variations in cultivation practices and can increase under no-till management. Less leaching of nitrate was observed in no-till experimental plots. This was related to increased infiltration rates and preferential flow of incoming nitrate free rain water down large pores; this effectively bypasses or short circuits the nitrate in the surface soil layers. Where soils were tilled, the water moved down the profile more slowly and subsequently transported more nitrate deeper. Greater macroporosity and a responsive microbial community can be used to provide more efficient management of agroecosystems. Establishment of a new steady state for soils put under no-till cultivation may take as long as a decade in temperate climates.
20112785|Much research has been conducted in the past decade on developing pheromones for insect control. This research involves the identification of all pheromone components used by a species, and behavioral studies to demonstrate that each component elicits behavioral activity definable as part of a natural sequence at natural pheromone concentrations. Use of these pheromones in mass trapping or mating disruption tests for insect control depends on the demonstration of efficacy for each formulation and the registration of the formulation as an insecticide. Efficacy is defined as the prevention or reduction of crop damage or, in some cases, in the pest population. Proof of efficacy includes information on the population density of the pest and/or the damage level before and after the test. Efficacy was shown in the case of the only pheromone registered for commercial usage (Gossyplure H. F. for pink bollworm on cotton) by using pheromone trapping data, data on differences in levels of larval infestation between treated and untreated control fields, and data on mating disruption from mating table experiments. Registration of pheromones has been a slow and expensive step, but they should not be viewed the same as insecticides. Pheromones do not kill insects directly, they are naturally occurring and thus are present at low levels already, they are used at low rates (less than 100 g
20113168|The objectives of our investigation were to determine whether on-going acidification in Sweden affects forest land snail populations and to study the relationships between snail density and the complex of chemical parameters related to calcium. We approached the problems through: i) re-inventories of snail populations in localities originally investigated some decades earlier, ii) experimental liming in forests, and iii) examination of elemental composition in snail shells from different environmental situations. The re-inventories were made at 57 forest sites in southern and central Sweden, originally sampled between 14 and 46 yr earlier. In general, snail density clearly decreased over the 14-46 yr periods, particularly at localities with low base saturation and low pH. In some oligotrophic coniferous forest sites in southern Sweden the snail fauna even seemed to have died out. Parallel to this a decrease in calcium concentration in litter has occurred. According to rarefraction analyses the number of species had decreased significantly only at six sites in SW Sweden. Experimental liming in beech forests resulted in an increase of snail density by a factor of 10-90, indicating that liming can counteract depauperization of snail populations caused by soil acidification. Analysis of the results from the retrospective studies and liming experiments showed highly significant correlations between snail density and calcium concentration, pH, base saturation and base cation concentration of the litter. These abiotic factors were strongly inter-correlated. Analyses by instrumental neutron activation and other methods of shell elemental composition indicated that concentrations of certain elements were dependent on acidity in the environment in which the snails lived. This suggests that shells from different localities and time periods can be used as bio-indicators and environmental archives.
20113171|We are conducting a whole-catchment experimental addition of nitrogen at Grdsjn, SW Sweden, to investigate the risk and consequences of nitrogen saturation in coniferous forests typical of southern Scandinavia. The Grdsjn experiment is part of the European NITREX project (Nitrogen Saturation Experiments). Beginning April 1991 we add in weekly portions c. 35 kg NHNO-N
20112842|The geochemical cycling of an element through the seawater reservoir can be characterised on a global scale by its residence time in seawater (
20112942|Base cations, chloride, nitrogen and sulphur budgets were determined for the acid Lake Grdsjn catchment during two hydrological years, 1979/80 and 1980/81. In land runoff, pH was generally lower (4.15-4.33) than in the lakes (4.68-5.28). The sulphate concentration was higher in runoff from forested catchments than in runoff from clearcut catchments or from lakes. Sulphate concentration peaked in runoff from forested catchments after a dry summer period in 1981. Ca- and Mg-concentrations were generally low in both land runoff and lake water (1.1-2.3 mg
20112574|This paper deals with proturan synusies occurring in Europe and their niche separation in the soil. Habitats of Protura, population density, coexistence of one or more species in a sample and reproductional patterns of proturan populations living in different areas of distribution range are also mentioned.
20112971|Soil biological processes which have been studied in the north are extended and compared with those of the south polar region. Much can be learned from exploiting the biological similarities and differences of the Arctic and the Antarctic. Firstly, the environmental conditions which control these biological processes are identified, and secondly, the ecology and physiology of the soil organisms are examined as a basis for understanding the functional processes. Soil processes can then be placed in the natural context of the terrestrial ecosystem from their interaction with other components of the system.
20113329|The present use of the world's forest resources is not sustainable. Yet over-harvesting and other stresses on forest ecosystems continue to degrade this natural capital on which human welfare is built. To improve information about forest resources to policy makers and the public at large, we propose the formulation of an index for the natural capital of forests that portrays the status and trends in the level of environmental sustainability of forests. The index and the sub-indices on which it will be based should reflect the composition, structure and functions of forests within a landscape perspective. The index should take into account forest ecosystems, ranging from naturally dynamic forests, cultural woodland to previously forest dominated landscapes, which have become highly degraded or transformed to other uses. Comparisons of quantitative and qualitative measurements, or indicators, with ecologically based performance targets, should be used to evaluate resource sustainability. The index could thus serve as a composite measurement of the quality of stewardship of the global forest capital, and signal to the world community its progress, or lack thereof. A natural capital index for forests is a logical next step after a sequence of international initiatives during the last two decades in support of sustainable management of the world's forest resources. The development of an index should proceed by: 1) selecting indicators measuring the status of forest resources and services in actual landscapes; 2) developing performance targets by systematic research and synthesis; 3) aggregating the chosen indicators and targets into a regularly updated index; 4) applying the chosen methodology in a series of pilot studies in countries with different types of forest ecosystems and phases in the development of the use and management of forests; 5) studying the institutional arrangements needed for gathering, keeping and updating data over time and facilitating its adoption in national forest policies and programmes; and 6) assessing changes in the index over time.
20112728|2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) has been found to induce somatic mutations in mutation tests with Drosophila melanogaster. Different genotypes show differences in sensitivity to exposure to 2,4-D. There is no significant increase in the frequency of somatic mutations when the corresponding genotypes are exposed to 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T).
20112595|The arthropod fauna associated with the roots of Dactylis glomerata L., Lolium perenne L., Rumex obtusifolius L., Urtica dioica L., Ranunculus repens L. and Senecio jacobaea L. in pasture near Dublin was studied. Total arthropod populations associated with the grasses were significantly higher than those associated with the weed species; the range was from 44000
20112563|Some main features of the ecological niche of the edaphic freeliving uropodid mite community in a pure beech-wood soil have been studied. The population distribution was a low contagious function; the animals were rather randomly distributed. The community chiefly inhabits the litter layer: 33% of the total biomass occurred in the fresh litter, 52% in the old litter (fermentation layer), and only 14% in the 0-6 cm humus layer. The presence of the edaphic uropodid population depends on the quantities of decomposing plant organic matter. These mites mostly feed on fungal hyphae from which they suck up the protoplasma. Only one species of the Tillaie community is phytophagous and feeds on unicellular green algae. The uropodid mites appear to be specialised "decomposers" which prefer to consume fungal or algal protoplasma. One of their main ecological functions seems to be to spread conidiae of fungi imperfecti in the substratum.
20112806|An outline is given of the reasoning underlying the planning of studies of the structure and dynamics of the pine stands investigated within the Swedish Coniferous Forest Project. The progress of these studies is indicated and the extent to which the original aims have been fulfilled is evaluated. The studies have shown that an increase in the degree of detail in study of the dynamic relations within the ecosystem, as compared to normal practice hitherto, is essential to the understanding of the biology and ecology of the species composing it, hence to the understanding of ecosystem functioning.
20112505|In view of rising energy costs, and of ongoing discussions on ensuring future world supplies, an investigation of Swedish conditions was carried out with the following aims: 1. to outline methods for analyzing the energy flow in forestry and agriculture; 2. to described the flow of various resources in physical, monetary and energetic terms for the years 1956 and 1972; and 3. to provide a basis for selecting branches of great importance for energy supply and consumption, where further investigation could be valuable. The input of auxiliary energy doubled during the period investigated, while the labour input decreased by 75%. The total cost of auxiliary energy in 1972 correspond to 10% of the total income. The total growth of the forest tree biomass represented 0.17% of the solar radiation.
20112876|Respiratory electron transport system activity (ETSA) was measured by a method based on the reduction of the electron acceptor 2-(p-iodophenyl)-3-(p-nitrophenyl)-5-phenyl tetrazolium chloride (INT) by cell-free homogenates of sediment samples. Additions of Cu, Cd, Zn or Pb to unaffected, eutrophic sediments were carried out in the laboratory. When Cd, Zn or Pb was added to the sediments ETSA was reduced by 40 to 45% within a few days. This decrease was achieved at sediment metal concentrations of 1, 6 and 10 mg
20112666|The acetylene reduction assay was used to study selected aspects of nitrogen fixation in freshwater lake sediments, taking into account evidence that such assays did not measure nitrogen fixation in the system quantitatively. Rates of ethylene production in acetylene reduction assays of a range of root-free sediments sampled freshly at different times of the year from Loch Leven (Kinross, Scotland), Esthwaite Water and Grasmere (English Lake District) were measured and compared. The highest rates of ethylene production were observed with Esthwaite and Grasmere sediments two weeks after the turnover, and may have been due to aerobic organisms. Loch Leven sediment produced more ethylene if it was black than if it was brown, under anaerobic than aerobic conditions of incubation and at higher temperatures (15 compared to 7C). Numbers of endospore-forming acetylene-reducing rods, counted by an anaerobic most probable number technique, were higher in black than brown sediments, and in pasteurized than non-pasteurized sediments. However, other acetylene-reducing bacteria were also present. The potential significance of these results is discussed, and the restriction necessary for the interpretation of surveys of acetylene reduction rates in lake sediments emphasized.
20112768|A comparison was made between vegetation units based on numerical classification of point frequency data of the plant cover of a North Scandinavian mire on permafrost (at Stordalen in the Tornetrsk area) and those based on non-numerical classification of the vegetation of this and similar sites over a larger area (the whole Tornetrsk area). Two agglomerative numerical cluster methods were used, viz., "the cluster analysis on variables" using a standard classification programme, and "the cluster analysis on individuals" using the TABORD programme. The Pearson correlation coefficient was used in both. The non-numerical classification was based on traditional methods of Scandinavian phytosociology. There was good agreement between the results of the numerical and non-numerical approaches, though the entities of the traditional classification were more clearly delimited than those of the numerical. Possible explanations for this are discussed. For the description of this vegetation, and for similar results, the traditional field methods are much faster than the point frequency method.
43908643|Lake Vnern is the third largest lake of Europe. The trend of salmonid population development in the Lake Vnern area is described in detail as an example of the rapid extinction of genetically valuable populations during the last century. Several important populations of brown trout (Salmo trutta) and landlocked Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) previously inhabiting Lake Vnern itself have become extinct. It is further estimated that among the waters draining into Lake Vnern at least 54 out of 80 (61 %) lakes have lost their large-sized brown trout populations during the period 1895-1979.
20112887|Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are highly-stable organochlorine contaminants, which have been found to occur widely in nature. Probably the largest input of PCBs circulating in the environment has been provided by the discharge of municipal and industrial wastes into inland and coastal waters. PCBs are only poorly soluble in water, but adsorb strongly to suspended particulate matter, which eventually falls to the bottom sediments, forming a significant long-term pool of contamination. In 1975, a suburban scrap-metal merchant in Melbourne, Australia, was responsible for the accidental discharge of a large quantity of PCBs from a transformer into local storm-water drains, and thence to a man-made recreational lake. The residence of PCBs in the locality five years after the spillage was investigated and conclusions drawn on the significance of the relative amounts and types still present, as well as their movement from the point of discharge. Possible methods by which the area may be cleaned of contamination are discussed.
20112913|Stimulative and toxic effects of industrial effluents containing high concentrations of ammonium were assayed in natural brackish water communities of phytoplankton and bacterioplankton and with laboratory cultures of a test alga (Chlorella sp.). Acute effluent effects on planktonic communities were measured with short-term primary productivity and heterotrophic activity assays. Effects on Chlorella were determined as biomass increase during 14 d. Activity of bacterioplankton was inhibited by the lowest effluent additions (corresponding approximately to 100 g
20112582|The study deals with the analysis of gut transit duration data of an anecic earthworm community. Gathered data primarily show qualitative differences of the duration at various seasons. Anecics feed on the soil surface at dusk and dawn. In fall, a similar number of anecics eat in the evening (21h) and in the morning (4h) while they feed only at dusk in spring. In December, the feeding is dependent on the atmospheric temperature; earthworms do not eat below 0C. There is no difference in the gut transit duration, during the same season, between stages, taxa, weight classes and length classes of earthworms. Then anecic soil-mixing increases with the individual weight because the gut volume is proportional to this weight. Gut transit duration is quicker in spring than in fall and quicker in fall than in winter. The increase of this duration is linked with food availability on one hand and soil temperature decrease on the other. An influence of food availability could be shown by the increase of the transit duration variability which illustrates the intensification of food competition among anecics.
20112955|This paper deals with data collected by analysis of the 0-20 mm sediment layer from 65 random core samples. The concentrations of organic matter, Na, K, Mg, Ca, N, P, S, Si, Al, Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, Pb, Cd, Cr and Ni were determined for three depth strata, i.e., 0-5 m, 5-10 m and &gt10 m. The surficial sediments had high water content (95.3%) and were also generally high in organic matter, about 40%. The high concentration of organic matter on very shallow bottoms was due to growth of Sphagnum spp. or a felt-like structure with filamentous cyanobacteria. Nitrogen, calcium and sodium were enriched in these shallow samples. Mean sulphur concentration was significantly higher in the shallow stratum than in the deepest stratum, while most other elements had their highest mean concentrations in the deepest stratum. Aluminium and phosphorus concentrations displayed significant positive correlation with depth and were also mutually significantly correlated. The distribution of the observed element concentrations was presumably altered by the conditions in the acidified lake. Net accumulation, including also fine organic particles, being large even in very shallow areas, implied a more uniform deposition due to decreased influence of dynamic factors generally regulating the sedimentation pattern. It is assumed that the presence of Sphagnum mats and the felt-like structure in the acidified Lake Grdsjn is the cause for the changes.
20113340|Suserup Skov, a semi natural, mixed deciduous forest of 19.2 ha in Denmark was on December 1999 hit by the most severe gale ever recorded in Denmark with gusts exceeding 45 m
20112570|As a result of a forest fire in a submediterranean region (pine and chestnut), there was total destruction of the forest litter and its testacean fauna. A new litter consisting of pine needles dried by the fire was formed on the ashes. The litter was gradually colonised by Testacea from deeper untouched soil layers. Other annex habitats (mosses, bark) were destroyed by the fire. The process of colonisation was slow and six months after the fire the population density was still small. However, species diversity was high, a sign of a relatively unstructured community with an evolutionary potential because all available space was not utilised. In deeper soil layers the Testacea was preserved because the fire passed rapidly and did not cause a significant rise in temperature. However, the drainage of water containing mineral salts from the ashes modified the habitat and thus the density and structure of the population.
20112943|Nutrient supply "bulk deposition" and "throughfall deposition" to open areas and the forest floor, respectively, was monitored in the Lake Grdsjn watershed. Deposition rates were 0.08 kg P
20113020|Habitat diversity in Finnish agricultural landscapes was highest during the first half of this century, a period characterized by mixed farming. New agricultural policies and the general intensification of agriculture have led to specialization and consequent habitat simplification on individual farms and in entire regions (cereal production in the south, cattle farming in the north). We review ecological theories dealing with habitat structure at two spatial scales: within individual habitat units, e.g. fields; and at the regional level, in terms of the numbers, size, and isolation of e.g. fields and woodlands. An alternative viewpoint focuses on the characteristics of habitat boundaries; boundaries between microhabitats within habitats are becoming less but boundaries between habitat units are becoming increasingly sharp. We review examples drawn mostly from Finnish studies on weeds, insects, small mammals, and birds using this framework of the ecological theories.
20112939|In order to quantify the atmospheric input of acidifying compounds a monitoring system was run at the Lake Grdsjn catchment, SW Sweden, for two years. Precipitation and throughfall were sampled at least every 2 weeks and the samples were analyzed for pH, Na, Ca, Mg, NH, NO, Cl and SO. Atmospheric concentrations of SO, NO and particle-borne sulphate were determined. These data were used together with estimated deposition velocities to calculate the dry deposition. The data indicate a yearly deposition of sulphur to a coniferous forest in this area of 24.8-31.1 kg S
20113148|The aim of the study was to use the deposition gradient across a forest edge to study the influence of acidifying substances on soil changes as well as on soil acidification rate and processes. Element fluxes in throughfall and soil solution from the B horizon were measured during one year, at different distances from the forest edges of a spruce and a beech forest in Scania, southern Sweden. The exchangeable amounts of elements in the soil were also determined. Bulk deposition was collected in a non-forested area adjacent to the forests. In the spruce stand, element fluxes were considerably influenced by the forest edge. Throughfall fluxes (as a substitute for total deposition) at the spruce forest edge were 48 kg SO-S
20112677|Nitrogen (CH) fixation has been studied in stands of varying ages of Scots pine (Pinus silvestris L.) on glacifluvial sand, and in a mature stand of mixed Scots pine and Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) on sandy moraine. Major differences in the rate and localization of N-fixation between the different coniferous ecosystems were found. Heterotrophic nitrogenase activity was found mainly in association with feather mosses, decaying woody litter, both above and below ground, and rhizosphere samples. Plate counts of aerobic and facultative anaerobic potentially N-fixing soil bacteria were much higher than those of strict anaerobes. N-fixing blue-green algae occurred sparsely, in the form of algal crusts, in a young pine stand, but seemed to be of great importance as intracellular components of Sphagnum mosses, in the mixed pine and spruce stand. Symbiotic N-fixing organisms were rare at investigated sites. Estimated mean annual N-fixation in two Scots pine stands was 0.35
20112859|Hymenomonas carterae produces coccoliths, particles consisting of CaCO and macromolecular organic material. The coccoliths are formed in Golgi vesicles; after the termination of calcification they are extruded and incorporated into a cover around the cell. Other Golgi vesicles contain many particles of about 25 nm, called coccolithosomes. Prior to calcification the coccolithosome-containing vesicles fuse with those in which the coccoliths are being formed. Then, the coccolithosomes disappear during calcification. With quantitative X-ray microanalysis we found that coccolithosomes contain a concentration of calcium of at least 6 M. The possibility is discussed that coccolithosomes function as intermediate calcium carriers for coccolith biosynthesis. In the absence of light coccolith formation comes to a standstill and
20112940|The distribution of dissolved aluminium among various monomeric species in different types of waters from the Lake Grdsjn catchment, Bohusln, southwestern Sweden, was investigated. An equilibrium model including naturally dissolved organic matter complexes of aluminium (Al-org) was used to evaluate the concentration of various aluminium species in the system. The main aluminium species were assumed to be its free ions and its complexes of hydroxide, fluoride, sulphate and dissolved organic matter. An approach was used for evaluating the conditional stability constant of the Al-org complex,
20112769|At the start of the Swedish IBP Tundra Biome project in 1970, plant material was harvested according to a statistical sampling plan at the peak and at the end of the growing season. The aim was to quantify the phytomass distribution of a subarctic ombrotrophic mire on permafrost, and to investigate whether changes in phytomass could be detected so that the method could be used for further investigations of the primary production of the site. The results showed that, for most plant categories studied, the number of observations (100 on each occasion) was far too low to allow the detection of significant (at 5% level) differences. Methods for increased accuracy are discussed, but these were found to be more or less impossible to carry out in practice since they would lead to high costs and to an unacceptable impact on the site. One major conclusion of the investigation is that the harvest method used does not seem to be appropriate for future investigations or comprisons of phytomass between the peak and the end of the growing season in this type of ecosystem.
20112722|The administration of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD) induces a number of liver enzymes. The best studied of these is aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH), a cytochrome P-450-mediated microsomal monooxygenase. The potency of various halogenated dibenzo-para-dioxin congeners to induce hepatic AHH activity in chicken embryo corresponds very closely to their toxic potency. We have isolated a macromolecular species in hepatic cytosol which reversibly binds radioactivety labeled TCDD with a high affinity and which has in vitro the binding properties predicted for the induction receptor for AHH activity on the basis of in vivo biological responses. The correlation between the toxic potency of chlorinated dibenzo-para-dioxin congeners, their induction of AHH activity and their binding to the hepatic cytosol species suggests that one might use these biochemical parameters as sensitive bioassays to screen for the presence of toxic chlorinated dibenzo-para-dioxins.
20113314|To emphasise the need for a systematic approach to predict species occurrences, we review studies on the occurrence of hazel grouse Bonasa bonasia at forest stand and landscape scales in study areas differing in proportion of suitable habitat and type of matrix. Critical thresholds for patch size and isolation were determined for both scales and models were produced and tested. At the stand scale, hazel grouse habitat described in forestry terms was unthinned middle-aged (20-70 yr) or old (&gt 90 yr) stands with 5-40% deciduous trees, including Alnus glutinosa, and with well developed field layer structures. Such habitats are rare in the managed forest landscapes of Fennoscandia. Minimum habitat patch size in managed forest landscapes was 10 ha for reliable hazel grouse presence, and 20 ha for habitat patches completely surrounded by open fields. Because of its short natal dispersal distances, avoidance of open areas and high degree of site tenaciousness, the hazel grouse is negatively influenced by habitat loss and isolation at the landscape scale. In an agricultural dominated landscape, no hazel grouse occurred in habitat fragments &gt 200 m from continuous forest, whereas in an intensively managed forest landscape an isolation threshold appeared at ca 2 km. Matrix type thus strongly influenced the occurrence of hazel grouse in forest habitat fragments. However, also within forests the proportion of open land edge contributed to the occupancy rate. Models based on the hazel grouse occurrences in intensively and extensively managed landscapes were tested in a landscape with intermediate intensive management. Models predicted the presence of hazel grouse in the habitat patches well, 84 and 86% correct, respectively. Further, present Swedish stand descriptions used in forestry were rather useful for determination of hazel grouse habitats, but would be improved if measures of ground cover and occurrence of alder were included.
20113145|Acidification research since 1968, especially in terrestrial ecosystems in Sweden, is briefly described as reflected in the Swedish contributions to five important meetings and the international discussion during them. These meetings were held in Stockholm, June 1972, Columbus, Ohio, May 1975, Telemark, Norway, June 1976, Sandefjord, Norway, March 1980 and Muskoka, Ontario, Canada, September 1985. For the period after 1985 some important research themes are highlighted: paleoecology, soil resistance to acidification, processes at the soil/surface water interface, and last but not least, deposition of nitrogen compounds both as contributing to acidification and as causing other problems, described as nitrogen saturation. It is concluded that the scientific community has become much more alert to alarm signals concerning environmental risks during the last three decades, and that this has also been reflected to a certain extent in political decisions. Concerning the acidic precipitation and its environmental consequences there have been changes in scientific focussing, in research funding, and in general attitude in many countries during this period. Still, it is believed that the Swedish part of the story merits a special interest, both because of stimulating hypotheses put forward at an early stage, and because these hypotheses, as well as later ones, have been followed up in a fairly consistent way.
20112863|It has been reported that sea water is capable of catalyzing the hydration of CO. Such catalysis would necessitate a re-interpretation of measured rates of the invasion of CO into the ocean and other natural bodies of water. We have therefore made measurements of
20112850|The concentrations of soluble reduced sulfur compounds were measured at various depths in two types of sediments in the Great Sippewissett Salt Marsh, Falmouth, Massachusetts, USA, at roughly monthly intervals for a year. Both sediment types were underlying stands of short Spartina alterniflora, the common marsh grass. Somewhat surprisingly, sulfides and thiosulfate were the only abundant soluble reduced sulfur compounds. Organic sulfur compounds and other reduced inorganic compounds were present only as trace constituents if at all. Thiosulfate is presumably an oxidation product of sulfide or pyrite oxidation. Nonetheless, it was not inversely correlated with reducing intensity. The highest concentrations were sometimes found where the sulfide concentrations and reducing intensity were greatest. Seasonally, the greatest rates of reducing activity overlap with the greatest rates of oxidizing activity in the marsh sediments. Reducing intensity reflects the net result of these processes but gives no indication of the magnitude of either reducing or oxidizing activities. The most oxidized sediments occur where the change in water content is greatest as the water table falls. Presumably this draws in air and/or allows for more rapid oxygen diffusion from the air across the sediment surface or through the marsh grasses. The magnitude of energy export to creeks as reduced sulfur is still uncertain. However, we believe it is significant. Our best estimate is that the export of reduced sulfur represents an energy export of 50 to 100 mW
20112877|Isolated bodies of seawater create unique opportunities to study biogeochemical reactions between reservoirs. Due to the high stability of such systems, strong gradients are developed near the boundary between oxygen and hydrogen-sulfide and across the sediment-water interface. At these boundaries the major transformations of inorganic and organic substances occur due to rapid changes in physio-chemical conditions and bacterial populations. In Framvaren, a permanently anoxic fjord in southern Norway, a major study of the biogeochemistry of water and sediments was initiated. Preliminary results indicating transformation reactions of iron and organic matter in the water mass and exchange of heavy metals at the sediment-water interface, are presented. Three pools or reservoirs are considered, i.e., 1) the oxic surface layer (0-18 m) containing oxygenated components and primary producers, 2) the anoxic deep water (18-183 m) with reduced species representing a storehouse of chemical energy and 3) the bottom sediments acting as a sink and/or a potential source of various components.
20113158|The study describes the occurrence of mineral nutrient imbalances in Picea abies (L.) Karst. trees in southern Sweden in relation to both deposition of nitrogen and humus form. Concentrations of mineral nutrients and free arginine were used to monitor imbalanced nutrition of trees caused by surplus nitrogen availability in the soil and/or low availability of other mineral nutrients. The major part of the investigation was performed on permanent sample plots within the Swedish National Forest Inventory (NFI) representing forests typical of the region and both mor and peat plots were sampled. A number of mor plots, laid out by the National Board of Forestry (NBF) were also sampled. The NBF plots were considered to suffer from the "new type" of forest decline in Sweden when they were selected and, therefore, represented typically damaged forests of the region. Although total nitrogen and arginine concentrations of the trees in the NFI-study were highest in the area with the highest nitrogen deposition, the concentrations were low. High arginine concentrations and low P/N ratios were found in NFI trees growing on peat plots. The NBF plots showed, in comparison with mor plots of the NFI-study, a considerably greater frequency with high needle arginine concentrations. It is concluded that, although trees on peat soils in southern Sweden tended to have greater mineral nutrient imbalances in areas with the highest airborne deposition, the humus form was more important for the development of nutrient imbalances than the deposition level. The importance of studying representative material of the region, when forest health is investigated, is discussed.
20112881|The biogeochemical cycle of silicon was modelled in two temperate forested ecosystems with the help of four natural reservoirs: vegetation, soil organic matter, soil minerals and soil solutions. Silicon, like potassium, calcium and manganese, is a very good tracer of the functioning of forest ecosystems: deciduous forest ecosystems are characterized by moderate weathering release and geochemical drainage, and by a strong biological cycle (85% of the soluble silicon is derived from the soil biogenic silica). In contrast, coniferous forest ecosystems have a weak biological cycle and a strong silicon weathering release flow (85% of the soluble silicon is derived from the crystalline soil minerals).
20113347|The aim of this study is to describe the characteristics of the flora in Suserup Skov, Denmark, a small, ancient forest stand in a fragmented agricultural landscape. We analysed whether the ground flora is still characterised by forest continuity and natural gap dynamics or if it is increasingly influenced by edge effect and introduced species. For the analyses we used a species list including all floristic recordings 1870-2005, presence/absence data from two complete stand-scale surveys (50  50 m grid cells) collected in 1992 and 2002, floristic and environmental data from 163 randomly located 10  10 m plots collected in 2003, and floristic and environmental data from 91 plots each in and around five gaps collected 1999-2002. The flora list for Suserup Skov contains 182 herbaceous species of which 42 are regarded ancient forest indicators. A characteristic trait of the forest is the vast cover of spring-ephemerals in often large and continuous patches. The effect of gaps was most evident for the summer flora, with both percent cover and species richness being higher in the gaps than under closed canopy. The forest edge was only weakly influenced by disturbance-related species, and it appears that the closed structure of the forest edges make them relatively impermeable to invasion of competitive and exotic species. However, the presence of the lake as an edge and diverse habitat contributes positively to the overall species diversity of the forest. Only few introduced herbaceous species are of concern and are primarily located to three highly disturbed sites in the forest. However, their expansion may cause a substantial threat to native species. We conclude that the floristic composition of Suserup Skov -- despite its smallness and isolated position -- has a relatively high proportion of ancient forest indicators and large, continuous patches of especially spring-ephemerals. Moreover, even though the forest is quite small, the functional interior area of the forest is not much smaller than the actual area of the forest.
20113136|In spite of their ecological and economic importance, few complete biomass accumulation and production budgets exist for pine forests. With few exceptions, foliage biomass, the ratio of foliage:total aboveground biomass and aboveground net primary production (ANPP) all decline in older pine forests. Climate strongly influences biomass allocation and net primary production of pine forests. For example, average foliage production decreases by 70% from tropical to boreal pine forests while ANPP decreases by 80%. Total root net primary production is positively correlated to mean annual temperature. Nutrient availability also strongly influences biomass allocation and production; both comparative and experimental studies show that foliage production and the ratio of new:total foliage biomass are greater for fertile than nutrient-poor pine forests and that the relative allocation of biomass belowground is greater for nutrient-poor than fertile forests. Many of the factors that influence biomass accumulation, allocation and net primary production of pine forests exert a similar control on other conifer forests.
20112777|Flows and storages of energy within the peat of the ombrotrophic mire at Stordalen are given. The overall picture shows an accumulation of 1539 kJ
20113345|Gap regeneration in natural or semi-natural forests is often suggested as a reference for sustainable forest management. To increase the knowledge about gap regeneration, a study of gap formation and regeneration was carried out in four small gaps (200-300 m) in the semi-natural deciduous forest Suserup Skov, Denmark 1997-2002. The aim was to improve the understanding of regeneration processes and patterns in natural unmanaged forests, and to use this knowledge as a reference to support similar studies and develop guidelines for management of deciduous forests. There was a good correlation between gap structure, light, and soil moisture but the regeneration response to gap formation was less predictable than expected. This probably reflects the relatively small gaps employed in this study and the highly variable conditions in both time and space of a forest with natural disturbance dynamics. The study also demonstrates the low predictability of regeneration success at the small-scale and in the short term. This is in contrast to common textbook and model descriptions of gap-regeneration that often leave the reader with the impression that spontaneous gap-regeneration is a reliable silvicultural practice.
20113167|The micro-habitat structure on coniferous trees changes as a result of needle-loss. This structural change in the vegetation may affect arthropods living in spruce Picea abies by indirect mechanisms, e.g. altered relations between prey and predators. The impact of acidification and needle-loss on some tree-living arthropods and passerine birds is reviewed. New information about the taxonomic composition of spiders in relation to needle density in a field experiment is reported. The main combined findings from the review and field experiments are: 1) Acid precipitation may be toxic because of high H concentrations. However, simulated acid rain (pH 4.0) did not reduce the growth rate of a spruce-living spider. There is at present no evidence of toxic effects on arthropods at this level of pH. 2) Experiments in the field and laboratory and data from natural populations suggested that spruce-living arthropods are affected by the needle density on branches. These data showed a positive correlation between needle density and spider abundance. However, a large-scale field experiment could not confirm this relationship. 3) The interaction between bird predation and needle density was examined in a large-scale field experiment. There were strong negative effects of bird predation on arthropod abundance. Moreover, the taxonomic composition among spiders changed as a result of bird predation: raptorial spiders increased their relative abundance whereas sheetweb spiders decreased their relative abundance when bird predation was excluded. There were also some cases of bird predation/needle density interactions: arthropod abundance was affected by bird predation on needle-dense branches in some cases and on needle-sparse branches in others. In the absence of bird predation, the needle density affected the spider size distribution: large spiders were more common on needle-sparse branches than on needle-dense ones. The species composition was affected by similar interactions, e.g. bird predation effects on crab spiders (Thomisidae) were found on needle-sparse branches only. 4) The foraging behaviour of willow tits Parus montanus was studied at two sites differing in the needle density of the coniferous trees. The birds at the site with relatively needle-sparse branches spent proportionally more time scanning for predators and less time for prey handling than at the site with needle-dense trees. It is concluded that needle density in coniferous trees affects the behaviour of both spruce-living spiders and passerine birds. The effects on the arthropod population density may, however, be weaker than regulating factors, e.g. predation. It seems probable that the relationship between vegetation structure and the arthropod community is complex. Effects of needle density may interact with bird predation or it may be masked by other biotic factors.
20112512|Forest drainage increases the annual runoff, especially from open peatlands. The increase is to a large extent dependent on factors other than the type of drainage used, such as the size of the runoff area, the proportion of lakes and the amount of agricultural land within the area, and the water content of the snow cover. Drainage also tends to stabilize runoff and can increase the amount of water available -- for example, for power, domestic water supply and water purification purposes during periods when runoff is at a critically low level. The amount of mineral matter and humus in water increases during and immediately after ditching work. This phenomenon can produce some locally harmful effects, if the oxygen content in water falls to too low a level. Forest drainage has not been found to have any harmful effects on groundwater and other hydrological properties of the mineral soil surrounding drainage areas in Finnish conditions. Fertilization in peatlands to some extent increases the level of phosphorus and potassium in the runoff. The amount of leached material is normally very small when compared with other sources of pollution. Considerable losses can, however, occur if easily soluble materials are spread onto the snow cover. The danger of nutrient losses through leaching can be reduced by using the appropriate type of fertilizer, the proper techniques and the right time of application.
20113327|We propose how quantitative knowledge about specialised birds and spatially explicit land cover data describing the terrestrial vegetation can be used to build Habitat Suitability Index models for the assessment and planning of representative habitat networks at the scale of landscapes and regions. Using specialised forest-dwelling species listed in the EC Birds directive, we review the quantitative knowledge, and identify knowledge gaps, about the requirements of species at different spatial scales from individuals to local populations. We also assess to what extent the selected species cover different forest types and ecoregions associated with the drainage basin of the Baltic Sea. We then use this information to estimate the tentative size of planning units for the assessment of habitat networks aimed at maintaining biodiversity. The estimated mean minimum size of planning units where suitable habitat dominate the landscape was ca 40 000 ha, while in managed landscapes with minimum amount of habitat the unit size averaged 250 000 ha. By contrast, the size of individual conservation areas such as woodland key biotopes and protected reserves from which habitat network can be built in a managed matrix was ca 1-1000 ha. We conclude that when managing for the maintenance of forest biodiversity there is a need to extend the spatial and temporal scale from the stand scale to that of landscapes within large management units. Finally, we discuss perspectives and limitations in using ecological knowledge about birds, landcover information and GIS-modelling as an integrated tool for tactical conservation planning.
20112583|It was shown by experiments carried out in 1975 that pesticides had no marked effect on the survival of intact and amputated earthworms in fertilized soil contained in pots, although the chemicals to some degree inhibited earthworm activity during plant humification. The effect of pesticides on the densities of Acarina and Collembola in the layer of decomposing plants was not similar in all cases. The least numbers of these organisms were found in the layer of Agropyron in the experiments with TCA. The barley crop increased two-fold in soil fertilized by plants. In the experiments with intact earthworms the yield of barley grain increased by 62-269% as compared with the corresponding experiments without earthworms. The effect of injured earthworms on the yield of barley grain was less marked (40-49%). Plant humification proceeded at a higher rate in the experiments with both intact and injured earthworms than in the corresponding experiments without any earthworms. In many cases the quantities of vitamin
20112681|Nitrogen fixation (CH reduction) by the lichen Stereocaulon paschale (L.) Fr. was studied in the field in northern Sweden. Field studies were carried out in a very dry dwarf-shrub-type pine forest with S. paschale as the only nitrogen-fixing lichen species. During May-September 1973 and 1974 nitrogen fixation was measured on 28 occasions at irregular intervals, and a total of about 1200 lichen samples were studied. The mean nitrogen-fixation activity during May-September was 0.85 and 1.04 g
20112590|Spray irrigation of reed canary grass, old field and mixed oak forest communities with municipal wastewater effluent causes the increase in numbers of individuals, biomass, and numbers of species of earthworms. On treated mixed oak sites the colonization and establishment of earthworm populations seem to be related with a decrease of the carbon-nitrogen ratio.
20112712|2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD) is a highly toxic impurity of certain chlorinated phenoxy acid herbicides; its release and accumulation in food chains implies a potential environmental hazard. Elaborate methods for the clean-up and analysis of environmental samples allow the monitoring of part per trillion (
20113316|We examined the relationship between the probability of Siberian flying squirrel Pteromys volans occurrence and the amount of mature spruce-dominated forest habitat in a boreal forest landscape in northern Finland. We used three different methods for assessing critical landscape thresholds with reference to spatial scale. First, we carried out a broad-scale landscape analysis to estimate the relationship between mature forest cover and the occurrence of the Siberian flying squirrel regionally. Second, we collected data on the presence/absence status of the species in forest patches in four different study areas. We used these data to determine the critical amount of habitat required for the long-term persistence of the species by applying Lande's demographic model. Finally, we introduced a hierarchical moving window analysis to determine landscape thresholds in a landscape where the species was intensively studied. Our results suggest that there should be 12-16% spruce-dominated forest habitat for the occurrence of the Siberian flying squirrel. In the regional landscape composition analysis there was &gt 10% of mature forest covering the area where the species was present. Lande's model suggests that critical extinction thresholds in our four study landscapes are at 11.6-15.6% habitat of the total land area. In a moving window analysis, the landscape threshold for the intensively studied area was 12.2%. Additionally, the probability of occupancy in a landscape window dropped &lt 0.5 when the amount of unsuitable open areas exceeded 60% of the area. However, it is questionable if the amount of habitat alone in a landscape can be used for assessing landscape thresholds. Additionally, structural landscape connectivity and matrix characteristics are likely to affect the distribution patterns of the Siberian flying squirrel in northern Finland.
20112885|Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are widely recognised as global organochlorine contaminants. Although they have been reported in waters, soils, sediments and biota in many parts of the world, little has been known, until recently, of their occurrence in the Australian environment. The findings of a recent survey of PCBs in mussels (Mytilus edulis) from waters close to the Victorian cities of Melbourne and Geelong, and of mussels and abalone (Haliotis) removed from areas of the coastline distant from centres of large population and industrial activity are presented. The possible consequences of PCB contamination to the local food chains, and to the human population in the area are discussed.
20112853|The nitrogen cycles for a red pine plantation and a mixed hardwood stand in central Massachusetts, USA, both of which were found to have high "resistance" to nutrient losses following disturbance, are presented. Both stands exhibit 1) slow rates of nitrogen cycling, 2) undetectable levels of nitrate and ammonia in lysimeter samples collected below the rooting zone, 3) small to negligible enrichment of nitrogen in throughfall compared with stemflow, and 4) no immobilization of nitrogen in decomposing leaf litter. All of these indicate a slow and tight nitrogen cycle and may also be indicative of "resistant" systems. Four major sinks for nitrogen within disturbed plots (created by trenching around a 1  4 m soil block) are analyzed; 1) denitrification, 2) leaching losses below the rooting zone and immobilization into 3) fine roots and 4) woody roots. In the hardwood stand these account for only 37 of 104
20113280|The effects of selective logging on coarse woody debris (CWD) and wood-decaying polypores (Basidiomycetes) were studied in spruce-dominated forests in eastern Finland. The polypore diversity of five stands, which had been logged between the 1890s and 1940s was compared with that of five stands in primeval forests. The volume of CWD in the logged stands was 43% lower than in the primeval stands. The species number and abundance of polypores were significantly lower in the selectively logged sites. Particularly the numbers of species inhabiting large logs and CWD at the mid decay stages were low, reflecting the low volumes of these substrates. The volume of newly created CWD was low in relation to the primeval stands, showing that the CWD supply had not recovered to the primeval forest level in the course of 50-100 yr. We conclude that boreal forests subjected to selective logging of the largest trees can maintain neither the diverse CWD structure found in primeval forests nor the natural composition of wood-decaying fungi. On the basis of the present study Amylocystis lapponica (Romell) Singer and Fomitopsis rosea (Alb. & Schwein.: Fr.) P. Karst. are especially good indicators of primeval spruce forests. Both species are common in virgin forests but sensitive to the impacts of logging.
20112819|An annual carbon budget was calculated for a 14-year-old Scots pine. Net photosynthetic production was estimated to be 1723 g C. The utilization of carbon was distributed between respiration 173 g C (10%), stem growth 145 g C (9%), branch growth 132 g C (8%), current needle growth 286 g C (17%), and fine root growth 960 g C (57%). All the values reported were estimated from independent measurements.
20113133|We review patterns of pine root growth and distribution, factors influencing root growth and activity, and approaches to describing water and nutrient uptake mechanistically; lesser emphasis is devoted to edaphic factors that affect root growth and function. Acquisition of water and nutrients typically represents a considerable carbon cost, in terms of root biomass production, root respiration and expenditures to exudates and mycorrhizae. Consequently, trees must not only construct roots that are well suited for water and nutrient uptake, but must balance plant needs relative to the photosynthate available for water and nutrient acquisition. Pines, like most plant species, exhibit considerable variability in root length density and depth of rooting on different sites. The high concentration of roots in favorable soil locations presumably represents a strategy for maximizing water and nutrient gain for a given carbon investment. The relative availability of photosynthate compared to the availability of water and nutrients influences the proportion of carbon deployed belowground for water and nutrient acquisition. During periods of rapid shoot growth, there is typically little root growth. In addition to root surface area, many other factors directly influence nutrient and water acquisition including mycorrhizae, root hairs, root exudates as well as environmental factors such as temperature, oxygen concentration and competition from neighbors. Process-oriented models of water and nutrient acquisition have provided valuable insight into many aspects of root function and will continue to be a valuable tool in the integration of the many diverse processes that influence root function.
20112824|Decomposition of Scots pine needle litter, its organic components, and release of the plant nutrients N, P, K, S, Ca and Mg were followed in four pine stands on a podzolized sandy soil in Central Sweden over a period of three years. The differences in weight loss rate were generally small but significantly higher in the mature (120 years) stand than in stands aged 60 years and 20-25 years. Decomposition was slowest in a very thin, young stand, clear-cut seven years before the investigation started. At the latter site, however, the highest leaching rate of K, Mg and P was noted, a phenomenon related to the specific climatic conditions of that site. Nitrogen and phosphorus, on the other hand, seemed to be most efficiently retained in litter when placed in the 60-year-old stand. Cellulose disappearance tended to be faster in the two old stands compared to the two young ones, but otherwise the inter-site differences in decomposition of separate organic components were small.
20112717|The literature on phenoxy herbicide effects on plants is reviewed. The relation of these compounds to the natural plant hormone of auxin type, indolylacetic acid, is stressed. It is concluded that the lethal effect of phenoxy acids on plants in low doses is related to their auxinic properties. Those of the phenoxy acids that have a strong herbicidal action also have a high activity in auxin tests. The phenoxy herbicides exert a number of physiological and biochemical effects on cell and tissue level similar to those of indolylacetic acid. The mechanism of toxic action of low herbicide concentrations is assumed to be a disturbance of the normal regulatory mechanisms of the endogenous auxin. The primary action of auxin in plant cells is due to the presence of specific receptors. The hormonal function of indolylacetic acid is also dependent on mechanisms in the plant for transport and for regulation of the concentration level of the compound. Phenoxy acids may bind to the receptors and influence a number of the auxin regulated processes. The plant cannot, however, regulate the level in the tissues of these synthetic compounds in an appropriate way. Their inactivation is often rather slow. At high concentrations phenoxy acids may also have other effects on plant tissues like uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation and destruction of membranes. These effects may cause rapid death of plant tissues.
20112721|The toxic effects of TCDD are produced with extremely low doses (ng
20113156|A common method to preserve soil samples for future analyses has been to store them air-dried in paper bags in storage rooms at ambient temperature, but there is little knowledge of effects of storage conditions and storage time longer than a few weeks on the chemical properties of soils. Effects on pH and exchangeable and easily extractable Al, Na, K, Sr, Mg and Ca were studied in two extractants (1 M NHAc, pH 4.8 and 0.2 M HNO) over 2-40 yr (pH) and 2-6 yr (cations) of storage in unheated rooms. The first analysis was two months after sampling. All analyses were repeated using the same methods and equipment. pH decreased gradually over time. The decrease was insignificant during the first two years (changes caused by drying or storage during the first two months were not measured) but was 0.8 pH-unit, as an average, over a few decades. Largest pH-changes were found in the originally least acid soils. Exchangeable base cations changed little over two years for soils sampled in the 1950's and analyzed in 1988 and 1990. This also applied to soils sampled in 1988 using the strongest extractant (0.2 M HNO). In extractions with NHAc, Mg and Sr were unaffected while smaller amounts of Al, Na and, partly, K were found after storage. Calcium was the only element that increased in concentration, but only after six years of storage. Some changes may be attributable of inaccuracy of analysis, others to storage. The present study demonstrates some effects of storage but further studies must be made to assess the general validity of the findings.
20112526|The article summarizes preliminary results from a current research project based mainly on conditions valid for Sweden. Intensive nitrogen fertilization, deficient handling of farm manure, intensive tilling of the soil and some other circumstances associated with agricultural practice can increase water pollution by nitrogenous compounds. This article analyzes the reasons why farmers practise production methods can lead to an increased water pollution. Moreover, control measures are discussed which can be utilized to reduce this pollution. The suitability of the control measures is assessed from the standpoint of the aims of the various interested parts. A series of different measures must be adopted in order to check agricultural water-pollution. Some of these measures can be effected by providing advisory services to farmers. Compulsory, specific measures are necessary in other cases. These latter control measures can be confined in Sweden to very small acreages. A higher payment for quality for potatoes and certain other products, whose quality is adversely affected by increased nitrogen fertilization, constitutes another suitable control measure. When international prices for agricultural products are lower than domestic prices, a charge ought to be imposed on commercial fertilizer. On the basis of a choice of a suitable combination of control measures, there would be a small cost for eliminating that part of agricultural water-pollution which can lead to health and environmental hazards. Consumption of commercial fertilizer is very low in developing countries. World food production as a whole would rise more rapidly if a portion of the consumption of commercial fertilizer in industrialized countries were transferred to developing countries. Such a transfer would improve the food supply in developing countries and the environment in industrialized countries.
20113185|Relationships between mountain birch, Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa, nitrogen economy and performance are discussed based on results mainly from northern Fennoscandia. As is true for most green plants, there is a close relationship between mountain birch seedling growth rate and nitrogen status. In addition to soil nitrogen availability, soil temperature is an important determinant of nitrogen uptake rate and thus of plant nitrogen status and growth. At a soil temperature of 5C rates of both root nitrogen uptake and growth are close to zero regardless of soil N availability, and above 15C growth increases only marginally. These results indicate that birch performance could be greatly affected by a changed temperature climate. Results from experiments indicate that the optimum leaf nitrogen concentration with respect to leaf productivity is c. 1.5 mmol N
20112773|The growth of Sphagnum riparium ngstr. was studied in relation to light, temperature and nutrient in a field experiment in a tundra mire at Stordalen, North Sweden. The experiment was carried out so that the effect of nitrogen fixation by the epiphytic blue-green algae of the moss could also be studied. The results showed that the plants rapidly responded to changes in environmental conditions. Nutrient, possibly except the nitrogen due to fixation, was the primary growth limiter among the variables studied. The growth was higher, however, than could be inferred from the nutrient available in the water surrounding the plants and that contributed by precipitation. Possible explanations of this discrepancy, e.g., a contribution by dry atmospheric deposition not measured, were discussed.
20113227|A few forest defoliating species of Lepidoptera occur as outbreak species in the mountain birch forests at northern latitudes. The most common species are the autumnal moth Epirrita autumnata and the winter moth Operophtera brumata (Geometridae). These species have somewhat different, but overlapping, distribution ranges that are delimited by slightly different physiological adaptations to climate. Several aspects of the life cycles and population dynamics of these geometrids are affected by climate. Unusual and extreme weather event can be important factors sometimes affecting temporal population dynamics. Such effects can be direct and indirect affecting some/all trophic levels (natural enemies, herbivorous insects and host plants) in the system, as well as interactions between different trophic levels. Experimental studies on effects of temperature on the autumnal moth and the winter moth and examples of recorded temporal and spatial patterns are reviewed. The implications of these results for predicting spatio-temporal population dynamics in a changing climate are discussed.
20112854|The biogenic activity of different benthic infauna species (Bivalvia, Polychaeta, Crustacea) increased the rate of ammonium production, nitrification and denitrification in their burrow environment. The flux of inorganic nitrogen from the sediment increased markedly, and the main part of this increase was in the form of
20113160|The nutrient status of one- to five-year-old needles of Norway spruce Picea abies was analysed in the Skogaby field experiment (SW Sweden) five years after the various treatments had been started. The treatments included application of ammonium sulphate (NS), N-free fertilizer (V), liquid fertilizer with a complete set of macro- and micronutrients (IF), irrigation (I), and artificial drought (D). For diagnostic purposes, four different techniques were used: i) comparisons of concentrations of N, K, P, Ca, Mg, and S with corresponding critical concentrations; ii) comparisons of K/N, P/N, Ca/N, and Mg/N ratios with corresponding critical ratios; iii) changes in nutrient concentration and nutrient content per needle with needle age; and iv) graphical vector analysis according to Timmer and Stone. On control plots, N and P seemed to alternate as limiting nutrients. Despite an annual precipitation of c. 1100 mm, water also seemed to limit tree growth. The I treatment caused a K deficiency, partly explained by increased tree growth. Application of a total of 500 kg N
20113007|In most European countries with intensive agriculture rising trends in the pollution of groundwater production wells by nitrate have been reported. Leaching from arable soils is one of the potential sources of nitrate in groundwater. It is therefore important to get more insight into the nitrate leaching process and thus be able to plan or implement measures to minimize nitrate leaching from arable land. The leaching of nitrate out of the soil rootzone is influenced by many factors and processes. Some of these can be controlled or manipulated, while others cannot. Our paper analyses the impact of different environmental conditions and agricultural practices on the leaching of nitrate into the groundwater. Appropriate measures to reduce the amount of nitrate leached and their effect strongly depend on site specific conditions. At certain (mainly sandy) arable sites, however, it is still possible that the nitrate concentration in the groundwater recharge cannot be reduced to values below the EC-standard for drinking water, in spite of all measures taken to reduce nitrate leaching. To secure the drinking water quality in such areas it will be necessary to change the land use distribution towards more units with low nitrate leaching (e.g. low fertilized grassland) to meet drinking water standards on a regional scale.
20113317|The occurrence of the threatened wood-living beetle Tragosoma depsarium (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) was investigated in a 560 km forested area in the mid-boreal zone in west-central Sweden. Twenty 1 km squares of managed forest were searched, together with two 1 km nature reserves and some smaller protected forest areas. The beetle bred in bark-free, sun-exposed, large diameter pine-logs. Several successive generations of beetles had bred in logs formed from old trees (&gt200 yr), but only one generation in younger trees. Logs formed by younger trees had quickly developed an unsuitable brown-rot, and the type of wood-decay in logs was obviously of importance for the species. Most occurrences were found on clearcuts, especially those with seed-trees left. The species could also be found in pine forests with a naturally sparse tree-layer. It was never registered inside protected forests, but sometimes at their south-facing edges. At the landscape scale the occurrences correlated positively with the amount of mature forest per square. The study area may contain one of the largest populations of the species in Europe outside Russia. However, seemingly suitable pine logs lacked T. depsarium in large areas, which indicate that the population suffers from habitat fragmentation. In the last ten years, the amount of old pine forest has decreased by 25% in the study area, so the species may decline rapidly in the near future. To prevent this, there is probably a need for larger forest reserves in which fire is reintroduced. Additionally, in managed forest where this and other threatened species still occur, tree retention of both live and dead pines has to become much more frequent during forest operations than it is today.
20113162|Aluminium in the form of
20112766|The annual supply of mineral nutrients in the precipitation on the ombrotrophic Stordalen mire was measured and related to the estimated annual uptake by plants. Translocation of mineral nutrients within the plant species studied (two dwarf-shrub and three moss species) is essential for growth and development of the new parts. For K, Ca and Mg, the annual supply in precipitation can account for the estimated uptake in the moss layer, but for N and P the supply in precipitation is insufficient, and the rest seems to be derived from decomposition of above-ground vascular plant litter and from other microbial activities.
20112974|The nunatak theory proposes that unglaciated areas existed along the shores of the North Atlantic ocean where plants and animals survived the last or previous glacial ages. This theory is examined in light of recent research. Reconstructions of summer temperature conditions 18,000 years ago suggest that the lowland flora of Scandinavia could not survive in icefree refuges but immigrated from the south or east when the ice melted. However, numerous species of the alpine flora could not survive in the lowlands south and east of the north European ice sheet 18,000 years ago and must have survived in ice-free refugia. This is confirmed by an analysis of the phytogeographic affinities of the lowland and the alpine floras. A relatively high amount of endemism, presence of numerous amphiatlantic species lacking in the Alps and similarity between the alpine-subalpine floras of Iceland, the British Isles and Scandinavia indicate that these floras survived in refuges since early Pleistocene times. Recent geological evidence suggest that a land area once connected Scandinavia, Scotland and Iceland up to Late Pliocene -- Early Pleistocene. With present topography several areas around the North Atlantic could not be covered by an inland ice because of the plasticity of ice. New dating methods (amino acid analysis, thermoluminescence) show that some areas in Spitsbergen have remained ice-free during most of the Pleistocene. Presence of gibbsite and other clay minerals suggest that the mountain top detritus is a remnant of the Tertiary weathering crust which has survived the Pleistocene glacial ages.
20113326|New values and policies related to the maintenance of biodiversity have led to a landscape perspective in Swedish forest management. As a result, data for ecological landscape planning have been compiled. The current challenge is to make strategic decisions about the relative efforts for the two main objectives set out in national and company policies for sustainable forest management: wood production and biodiversity being interpreted as the maintenance of viable populations of species. We studied the usefulness of the data in forest management plans within Sveaskog Co. for ranking forest landscapes with respect to the opportunity for succeeding with the biodiversity objective. To identify the position of individual landscapes with respect to the policy gradient from nature conservation to production we used ordination techniques to illustrate four variables affecting the maintenance of biodiversity. These were: 1) differences in the fragmentation of the land ownership affecting the property rights of the physical landscape, 2) site type distribution, 3) the proportion of forest with high conservation value both in the landscape as a whole and 4) in the conservation areas already set aside. The analyses strongly suggest that individual actual landscapes have very different chances of maintaining viable populations of all species, which is the goal of the Swedish forest policy. The ordinations indicate that the landscapes could be grouped into different categories, ranging from just a few with good chances of maintaining viable populations of specialised species (EcoParks), to the vast majority of landscapes having little forest with apparent high conservation value or fragmented ownership. The analyses support the "triad approach" of varying the management ambitions for production and conservation depending on a landscape's chances to maintain biodiversity in the long term. Finally, we discuss the need for improved data collection and active collaboration between scientists and managers to make sustainable forest management operational.
20112565|According to their feeding habits lumbricids may be divided into two main types: I) those feeding on or at the soil surface consuming only slightly decomposed plant residues; and II) those feeding on decaying plant matter dispersed in mineral soil layers. Earthworms of the former type may be divided into 3 groups: 1. Soil surface or litter dwellers (a special subgroup of amphibiotic species may be discriminated within this group). 2. Topsoil and litter dwellers. 3. Deep hole makers, among which also a subgroup of amphibiotic species can be recognized. Among earthworms of the second type of nutrition one can also distinguish 3 groups. 1. Top-soil dwellers. 2. Middle mineral strata inhabitants, among which a subgroup of amphibiotic worms is also to be separated. 3. Deep hole boring species. Each group and subgroup can be characterized by a set of morphological, physiological and ecological properties. Different groups are characteristic of different natural zones; the diversity of life-forms is highest in zones of mixed and broadleaved deciduous forests. Soil surface and litter dwellers penetrate into the taiga and tundra zones, whereas mineral soil strata inhabitants occupy steppes. Semi-deserts and deserts are not inhabited by lumbricids, which in these zones only occur in more humid interzonal biotopes.
20112961|An evaluation was made of the relative importance of atmospheric acid deposition compared with the internal proton fluxes for the soil acidification in a coniferous forest catchment on the Swedish west coast. A proton budget indicated that the atmospheric deposition contributed with 40-55% of the total proton input to the soil. The recent acidification of the nearby Lake Grdsjn is likely to have been caused by a combination of direct atmospheric deposition on the lake surface and an increased flux of protons and aluminium from the drainage area. This latter increase seems to be caused by an increase of the sulphate flux and by soil acidification, both processes being significantly influenced by the atmospheric deposition. Direct deposition of protons plus SO on the lake surface accounts for 37-44% of the proton input to the lake.
20112872|Manganese- and iron-depositing bacteria in surface films of anoxic swamp and pond waters may deposit metals by mechanisms that are similar to those of bacteria in surface layers of ferromanganese concretions. Since swamps and ponds are generally more accessible for controlled ecological investigations than lake and sea floors, they are preferable as sites for the study of metal-depositing bacteria and their activities in nature. During the summers of 1979 and 1980, electron microscopic analyses of metallic surface films from water in a local swamp revealed that numerous Mn-Fe-depositing microorganisms reside in the films. Cultural studies showed Leptothrix, budding bacteria, e.g., Pedomicrobium, as well as unidentified Mn-Fe-depositing bacteria were recognized by characteristic brown, flat, filamentous colonies formed on diluted swamp-water-agar medium with 3 ppm Mn added. In 1980, Leptothrix dominated the Mn-Fe-depositing microflora from early April through mid-October. Generally, increases in numbers of Leptothrix correlated with increases in water temperature. Leptothrix SS-1, isolated from the swamp water, grew optimally at temperatures between 20C and 30C. Little or no growth occurred at 4C or 35C. Optimal growth temperatures approximated temperatures of surface water recorded when numbers of Leptothrix were elevated. No obvious correlations between Leptothrix numbers and other environmental factors were detected. However, Mn and Fe concentrations were high when Leptothrix were abundant. The results are consistent with the notion that Mn-Fe-depositing bacteria, such as Leptothrix, affect the distribution of Mn and Fe in the swamp water by temporarily immobilizing these metals at the surface. In addition, they suggest that temperature may play a role in distributing the metals by regulating the growth of the Mn-Fe-depositing bacteria.
20113152|Bulk deposition, throughfall, stemflow, litterfall, soil solution (B horizon), aboveground biomass increment and soil were sampled and the annual fluxes of water, H, Na, K, Ca, Mg, Al, Mn, NH, NO, SO and Cl were quantified in adjoining stands of Picea abies, Fagus sylvatica and Betula pendula at two sites in southernmost Sweden. The total atmospheric deposition of H to the spruce canopies was two to eight times the deposition to beech or birch canopies. The corresponding figures for NH, NO and SO deposition were 1.5 to 3.0. Soil budgets showed a net loss of base cations from all soils, especially from the spruce soils. Proton budgets showed the calculated total proton load to the spruce stands to be two to five times the load to the beech or birch stands. The total proton load was mainly attributable to atmospheric H input (50 to 83%) and base-cation incorporation into the above-ground biomass (26 to 43%). Much of the acidity was exported in the form of Al ions to deeper soil layers and Al buffering was the major buffer mechanism. Compared to beech and birch, spruce greatly promoted soil acidification. The results indicate that unless acid and nitrogen deposition is much reduced, soil acidification and mineral nutrient loss are likely to continue in a majority of south Swedish forest soils with low weathering rates, particularly in the spruce forest soils, because of the much greater acidifying influence of spruce than of deciduous trees.
20112928|Historical background and time-trends of both chemistry and biology are necessary when evaluating causes of effects observed in acid catchments. This paper presents the different strategies applied and developed in the investigations into the history of the Lake Grdsjn area.
20112907|Vascular plants are rarely used in toxicological studies and then only in connection with metal uptake and accumulation and the effect on photosynthesis. There is only sporadic mention in the literature of using aquatic plant communities for monitoring and as indicators of pollution. Most papers are concerned with the effect of herbicides on aquatic plants in connection with weed control and in connection with their influences on the rates of nutrient uptake and release from the water and sediments. This paper discusses some of the reasons why aquatic vascular plants are so rarely used as test organisms in ecotoxicological studies, even though we know much about their biology and lifeprocesses.
20113240|By changing the north European landscape via modern large-scale forestry and replacing most natural mortality with hunting, humans have already greatly altered the environment in which moose Alces alces live and die. Even though hunting accounts for &gt 80% of moose mortality in Sweden today, studies of human predatory behaviour are surprisingly rare. We focussed our analysis on two less-studied areas of how climate change might affect moose: migration and the predatory behaviour of hunters. Specifically, we considered how climate changes may influence moose migration to and from the winter ranges because moose sometimes cause severe economic damage to young Scots pines Pinus sylvestris in winter. We also consider the remporal distribution of harvest as well as hunting methods (e.g. with or without dogs) and the influence of weather on the number and gender of moose harvested. Our analysis of habitat use and the timing of migration suggests that damage to forests by moose could increase in a climate-changed future, but that climate changes could also increase the production of moose winter browse and more than compensate for any increases in moose damage. We found no evidence that human predators were more efficient at detecting or harvesting moose when the ground was snow covered. However, deep snow may curtail hunters' access and thus affect moose population demography because harvest varies temporally (females being harvested later than males). Moreover, increased snow depths may make the use of dogs (the most efficient practice, but one which also selects females) possible for a shorter period. Thus, hunting practices and weather may interact with a temporal pattern in the kinds of moose harvested to alter population demographics. We suggest that these demographic changes will lead to unexpected population changes and complicate moose management in a climate-changed future unless these demographic aspects are carefully considered.
20112695|Considerable nitrogenase activity was detected in anaerobic serial dilution cultures from the rhizosphere of a disomic chromosome substitution line of wheat (C-R5D). Subsequently, 20 pure cultures of nitrogenase-positive, Gram-positive, spore-forming bacilli were isolated from the serial dilution cultures. In vitro studies showed that addition of 0.03 atm of oxygen to pure cultures growing exponentially and anaerobically caused acetylene reduction to cease within 1 hour. Similarly, inorganic nitrogen equivalent to 5 mmoles completely repressed nitrogenase synthesis, but increased rate of cell growth. Nitrogen-dependent anaerobic growth occurred over a temperature range of 10 to 35C. Optimum for rate of growth was 30C, while the greatest production of cells occurred at 20C. Bacterial cell growth occurred over a range of pH from 5.5 to 8.5. Maximum growth occurred between pH 6.8 and 7.2. Acetylene reduction followed a similar trend. In monoxenic culture, large numbers of bacilli capable of producing a functional nitrogenase were associated with a mucigel layer on the root surface as well as in the intercellular spaces between the cortical root cells. The differential proliferation of nitrogenase-producing bacteria in the rhizosphere of a genetically defined line of wheat is an instance of effect of plant genotype upon the composition of the bacterial population in the root environment.
43908642|High levels of genetic variability for animals in natural populations have been shown to be closely associated with characters related to fitness. These characters include reproductive rates, growth and developmental stability. Loss of genetic variation can result in detrimental changes in the productivity and stability of fish populations and/or communities. Current and future management practices may have dramatic effects in regard to the reduction of genetic variability below the normal levels in natural as well as in managed populations of fish. We must first understand the potential impact of the reduction of genetic diversity in fish gene pools in order to achieve the goal of maintaining as much of the natural genetic variation of fish as possible.
20112693|The N-ase (CH)-activity of some inulin-containing plants was studied along with the change in their rhizosphere microbial flora. Production of carbon dioxide in rhizosphere soil samples was taken as another parameter of microbial activity. A relation between the number of nitrogen fixing microorganisms and nitrogenase activity was observed, which also resembled the rate of CO production. The different plant systems were found to have differences in influencing the nitrogen microflora, although they contained a common polysaccharide substance in their roots. The N- ase (CH)-activity was found to be higher with inulin as an energy source than when compared with glucose. Flowering plants like Dahlia pinnata Cav. and weed plants like Taraxacum officinale Weber were found to possess great potentiality in enriching the soil through asymbiotic nitrogen fixers as compared to common cultivated plants like Cichorium intybus L.
20112527|To exemplify and estimate the influence from human activities on soil erosion rates sediment cores from the Black Sea were studied. The geomorphological characteristics of drainage areas supplying the Black Sea are given as well as the background for calculations of the denudation rates. The present mean denudation rate for the entire Black Sea source is 0.063 mm
20113184|Birch reproductive success generally diminishes with increasing elevation. Production of inflorescences, seed quality, seed germination and summer seedlings survival all decrease. A successful establishment only takes place during a period of several years of favorable weather, presumably as resources can be shifted from growth. Male catkin production is increased both by nitrogen and phosphorus and especially both. Instantaneous rates of photosynthesis and respiration are virtually identical among trees at different elevations but the leafy season is shorter at high elevations and the risk of leaf loss during it is higher, perhaps leading to infrequent carbon limitations for growth. No direct evidence for either a photosynthetic or respiratory limitation at the treeline was found, although high elevation leaf loss resulted in drastically reduced seasonal carbon gain. Nitrogen was found to limit growth of tree height and branch numbers to increasing degree with increasing elevation. This is in spite of increasing foliar nitrogen concentration with increasing elevation. Phosphorus application however, was not found to stimulate growth.
20112855|The influence of different hydrogen ion concentrations (pH 6 to 8) on the formation of NO and N by four denitrifying bacteria (Acinetobacter sp., Moraxella sp., Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Bacillus licheniformis) as well as by a common soil fungus (Fusarium solani) was examined in a phosphate buffered synthetic glycerol-KNO (or KNO) broth under standardized conditions (He atmosphere or at 10% v/v O in the case of F. solani). Gas production (NO and N) was determined by gas chromatography at regular intervals. With all organisms tested, maximum nitrogenous gas (NO-N + N) production seems to have a specific pH optimum. NO could only be detected with B. licheniformis at pH 6.5. Further, the ratio of NO-N/N varied to a certain extent according to the pH. With Acinetobacter sp. denitrification was most intensive at pH 7.5 to 8.0. The total NO produced as well as the ratio NO/N was higher in the neutral and alkaline medium than at pH 6.5. Moraxella sp. proved its maximum at pH 7.0 to 7.5. At pH 7.5 only N was released, whereas NO was produced additionally at a pH above or below this level. B. licheniformis showed its highest denitrifying activity at pH 8.0. The ratio of NO-N/N was about 1 at pH 6.5 but at pH 7.0 or higher N was the main product. In the case of P. aeruginosa and F. solani, NO appeared to be the dominant gas independent of the pH of the medium. Apparently, the quantity rather than the quality of gas production shows a marked dependence on the pH of the environment. The composition of the denitrifying gases is specific to the organism in question (under the given set of conditions). In soil or water, denitrification by fungi such as Fusarium spp. should not be underestimated, the more since the strain isolated proved to be highly effective in producing NO from nitrite at reduced partial oxygen pressure.
20112603|The magnesium, phosphorus, sulfur, potassium and calcium composition of ectomycorrhizae formed by Pisolithus tinctorius and Cenococcum graniforme was compared with the elemental distribution within the cortex root cells of Pinus taeda. The values were obtained by a combination scanning electron microscopy-electron microbeam technique. Significant concentrations of the five elements were observed within the fungus mantle sheath and Hartig net of both ectomycorrhizal types. Elemental concentrations were higher in the ectomycorrhizal root cells than the non-mycorrhizal root cells. This accumulation and transport of nutrients by ectomycorrhizal fungi to root cells is proposed as the major factor in the stimulation of plant growth under low fertility conditions.
20113213|The scientific disciplines required for practical biodiversity management are reviewed. This is followed by an analysis of the main abiotic, biotic and historic components found in Sweden and exemplified with case studies of regions with different land use histories. With this background the links between abiotic factors and natural disturbance regimes are used to sketch a book-keeping system for the maintenance of compositional and structural components of ecological biodiversity in landscapes with a relatively short land use history, as well as how an increasingly long land use history complicates these patterns. Further interactions between patches and the surrounding matrix are reviewed. With this background, an attempt is made to formulate measurable goals to be met by land use managers regarding old forest, deciduous trees, dead wood and browsing on keystone deciduous tree species. Finally, the desired future development of biodiversity management is discussed with respect to: 1) the importance of refining the practical measurements of the main biodiversity components, ranging from indicator species to remote sensing of different properties of a landscape, 2) the introduction and development of geographical information and decision support systems for handling the large amounts of information contained in a landscape, 3) the establishment of demonstration areas to speed up the dissemination of wise management solutions.
20113193|Gas exchange characteristics and carbon gain of transplanted temperate zone and native subarctic Geum rivale and Ranunculus acris were evaluated in a common garden under a subarctic growth regime. Photosynthetic capacity (
20112843|The river discharge of most major and trace elements into the Baltic is vaguely known and only for a few components are good figures available for several rivers. Furthermore, most rivers are regulated, i.e., they are affected by human activities. Therefore, data obtained now do not necessarily reflect conditions in the past. The suspended and dissolved load in the waters leaving the Baltic roughly equals the quantities delivered by rivers, except for a selective loss (compared to crustal abundances) of Mn, Ba, Ni, Cu and Zn. Only 2% of all Al and Ti in the Baltic element budget are lost from the Baltic, the corresponding figure for Mn is 16%; the balances end up in the permanently depositing sediments below the redox cline. The budget figures furthermore show that abrasion accounts for 50-95% of all recent sediments. Several local cycles control the distribution of, e.g., As, P, Mn and Ba. Nodules cover extensive bottom areas in the Gulfs of Bothnia, Finland and Riga and explain much of the deposition of these elements. Redox processes likewise explain variations for other elements, e.g., for Mn and S, in the sediments. A comparison of the metal abundance patterns for the Baltic with clean reference areas like the Barents sea do not suggest a severe degree of pollution, and the As/Fe or Ba/Fe ratios in Baltic nodules are similar to those in nodules from the World Ocean.
20113186|The apparent, short term litter formation rate in the dominating Sphagnum communities which characterise the extensive ombrotrophic parts of mires around Abisko, most of them with permafrost, has been estimated over a 14 yr period using a technique based on
20112867|Gold in sulphide ores has been shown to dissolve in cultures of microorganisms. Fungi and actinomycetes were less active than bacteria of the genera Bacillus and Pseudomonas. With the former concentrations of gold in solution never exceeded 0.02 mg
20113328|A habitat model for capercaillie Tetrao urogallus was developed in a modular structure of several analytical steps investigating habitat conditions and the occurrence of capercaillie within the Black Forest (Schwarzwald, Germany) at different temporal and spatial scales. A total of 104 capercaillie leks distributed over 60 000 ha was analysed and compared with the historical occurrence of 156 leks in 1902. Landscape scale variables in areas with and without capercaillie were examined for the whole Black Forest ecoregion covering 700 000 ha, and local scale habitat analysis was done in three representative study areas of ca 7000 ha each. Habitat variables and parameters differentiating between presence and absence were identified and management target values were derived. These were then integrated into an operational habitat management model, which represents a hierarchical top-down evaluation of habitat suitability. First, the wildlife ecological landscape types (WELT) classify distinct regions with similar landscape ecological habitat conditions for wildlife species within a country or broader administrative unit. Second, the species-specific landscape ecological habitat potential (LEHP) is defined within a WELT unit. It is based on the evaluation of species-relevant landscape variables and provides information about the potential habitat available to a selected species at the landscape scale. Finally, at the scales of forest district and forest stand, respectively, a habitat structure analysis within the LEHP-area allows for the measurement, improvement and control of habitat variables. By offering the possibility to identify location and size of areas, in which habitat improvement measures should be implemented, and by defining target values for forest management, this model links wildlife research to practical habitat management.
20113226|Bark beetles (Coleoptera, Scolytidae) are distributed worldwide occupying a wide range of niches on woody and herbaceous plants. Several species attack living trees when out-breaks occur and are known as forest pests. A wide variety of both biotic and abiotic factors are important in limiting species distributions and pest status. Temperature not only affects the biogeography and local distribution of the scolytids, but also regulates the onset of flight in spring, rate of development, number of generations as well as mortality, especially in winter. In higher temperatures, univoltine species may accelerate their development so that two generations emerge during a single growing season. This does not necessarily favour the beetle population since all individuals of the second generation may not have enough time to develop to the normal overwintering stage. In addition, biennial bark beetles may become univoltine. Though faunal changes have already been documented, relative changes in temperature and precipitation increase uncertainty in forecasting potential changes in scolytids' ranges and pest potential.
20112521|A consistent picture of the global nitrogen cycle, mainly based on a comprehensive literature survey, is presented. The annual flows between the terrestrial, aquatic and atmospheric reservoirs are considered, the rates given referring to 1970. The cycle is presented in four parts: molecular nitrogen -- nitrous oxide, ammonia compounds, compounds of odd nitrogen oxides (
20112609|The theory advanced by Lotka (1939) on the intrinsic rate of natural increase can be studied by means of matrix calculation. However, a distinction between seasonally and continuously reproducing populations must be made. This approach allows us to distinguish the limits and implications of that growth parameter. Fecundity and survival rates in relation to age were observed in three species of Collembola, at constant temperature (20C). Analysis of the data showed that Folsomia candida exhibits a growth rate (r = 0.15
20112969|Northernmost Scandinavia has two main bedrock units, the Precambrian Basement (with rocks mainly in the range 2,500-1,500 Myr) and the Caledonian Mountain Range (age about 550-350 Myr). The Caledonides cut discordantly across Basement structures. The Basement owes its main sedimentary and volcanic rocks, as well as its most important structures and voluminous magmatic intrusions, to the Svecokarelian Orogeny (1,950-1,750 Myr) and associated events that preceded this Orogeny and followed upon it. The Kiruna ore, which is one of the world's largest iron ore bodies, formed in the course of these events together with other, economically important mineral enrichments. The Svecokarelian orogeny affected a much older continent the remains of which are still extensively exposed. The Caledonides also include major massives of older bedrock. The principal Caledonian structure consists of very extensive overthrust nappes. These are several hundred meters to a few kilometers thick sheets of rock of sedimentary and magmatic origin that have been pushed horizontally over distances of as much as hundreds of kilometers. As a result of these movement the nappes rest on the top of one another. Individual nappes can be identified over tens to many thousands of square kilometers. The original root areas of the nappes are now covered by the North Atlantic. Metamorphism tends to be greatest in some of the higher and more westerly nappes, reflecting the circumstance that they came from central parts of the Caledonian Orogen. The Caledonian Orogeny is the expression of plate tectonic movements of Cambrian to Devonian age. Later plate tectonism has moved the continental crust of Scandinavia from the southern hemisphere, where it was in the early Paleozoic, to its present, northerly position.
20113194|Aspects of the growth, nutrient and carbon relations of some of the common hemiparasites of the Lake Tornetrsk region of subarctic Sweden are described with respect to the ways in which the plants utilise resources and the consequences of this method of nutrition for both the parasite and the host. Some species are facultative parasites and can grow in the absence of a host plant. Under these circumstances their growth is severely limited by an inability to both absorb and assimilate inorganic solutes. Attachment to a host plant greatly stimulates growth, with the nature of the host determining the extent to which such stimulation occurs. The most vigorous performance of the parasites occurs on nitrogen-fixing legumes, when the highest rates of growth and photosynthesis are observed. Thus heterotrophic organic nitrogen supply may play a major role in determining the success of these hemiparasites. Less is known about the influence of these hemiparasitic angiosperms on the performance of their host. A study of the Rhinanthus minor-Poa alpina ssp. vivipara association revealed that infected P. alpina plants accumulated less biomass and had lower shoot:root ratios than uninfected controls, and invested less material in reproductive tissue. However, the parasite did not influence rates of photosynthesis in the host.
20112808|Estimates are given of the standing crop in the field and bottom layers of two young Pinus sylvestris stands with Calluna vulgaris in different phases, and one mature P. sylvestris stand with Calluna in a mature-to-degenerate phase. The shoot production of dwarf shrubs was estimated by classifying them into different annual categories, viz. current-year shoots (C), and previous shoot generations (C + 1, C + 2...), after cropping. Attached dead plant material, fruits, etc., were sorted separately into categories. Samples in the young stands were stratified into Calluna (stratum I) and non-Calluna (stratum II), the distribution of which was estimated along diagonals in randomly chosen 100 m quadrats. The shoot + leaf production of dwarf shrub totals in the C fraction was estimated at 89  6 and 13  1 g dw
20112694|Several ecological factors which may affect the establishment of an Azotobacter population when inoculated into the plant rhizosphere have been tested in experiments carried out in this laboratory. The present study discusses this problem but deals mainly with: A) The activity of soil bacteriostasis in limiting the growth of Azotobacter; and B) The effects of "phosphobacteria" producing plant growth regulating substances. Azotobacter was sensitive to the bacteriostatic(s) factor(s) of soil from both Azotobacter-inoculated and uninoculated pots. Sensitivity of Azotobacter increased with time, reached a maximum at the middle of the experiment; then remained almost constant. The activity of this factor seemed to coincide with the drop of Azotobacter number in the rhizosphere. The factor was overcome by the addition to the plants of an NPK fertilizer at the middle of the assay. "Phosphobacteria", which also produce plant hormones, have been reported to stimulate natural Azotobacter populations and to influence the establishment of this bacteria when used as inoculum. Consequently, the possibility of such activity being due to the effect of growth substances produced by the phosphobacteria was tested in this study. A decisive influence of the plant hormones present in "phosphobacteria" cultures on Azotobacter development was found. Effects on plant growth of the bacterial "fertilizer" used are also discussed.
20113155|Selenite in synthetic throughfall solution adjusted to pH 3.5 or 4.5 was added to columns containing soil horizons from a reconstructed podzol profile in order to study acid rain effects on the Se dynamics. Most of the added selenite was retained in the upper part of the O horizon. Below the Bs1 horizon the concentrations were &lt0.1 g
20112805|The main problems of plant and vegetation process studies within the Swedish Coniferous Project are presented as a general background to the papers presented in this volume.
20112719|Until the end of the 1960's the phenoxy acids were generally considered to be relatively harmless pesticides. Since then they have become a very controversial issue and the most debated environmental problem in Sweden. The paper describes the background to this situation and gives short accounts of a number of incidents that have caused public concern. It also discusses legal proceedings and refers to Swedish research. The role of the mass media is discussed. Lack of objective information and lack of understanding often appear to be important causes of a more or less marked aversion to the use of phenocy herbicides.
20112886|Fatty acid, hydrocarbon, PCB, and heavy metal compositions of samples from the surface microlayer and subsurface water have been determined from a variety of Lake Michigan locations during a four-year study. Atmospheric, aquatic, and terrigenous inputs are evident. Chlorinated hydrocarbons appear to reach the lake surface primarily from precipitation. Most natural organic compounds originate from lake biota or from land runoff, although a portion of higher molecular weight hydrocarbons may be transported on dust particles. Heavy metals (Fe, Mn, Cu, Ni) arrive predominantly from land runoff and resuspension of coastal sediments. Removal of surface film and subsurface water components is primarily by particles which sink to the lake bottom.
20112696|A survey in various countries revealed that the N-fixing Spirillum lipoferum Beijerinck is a very common root and soil inhabitant in the tropics. More than half of the grass root and soil samples collected in tropical countries contained abundant S. lipoferum populations, while less than 10% of the samples collected in temperate regions contained the organism. There is a pronounced vegetation effect. Most tropical grain crops and forage grasses seem favorable while few positive samples were found under virgin tropical forest. Legume roots contained less S. lipoferum than adjacent soils. Among 12 other tropical crops only cassava, sweet potato and bracken fern showed S. lipoferum on their roots. S. lipoferum occurrence in soil was strongly pH dependent with pH around 7 being optimal (correlation coefficient r = 0.90, p = 0.01). Sporadic occurrence was observed even in soils with pH 4.8. Surface sterilized roots of Panicum maximum collected from soils with pH ranging from 4.8 to 7.2 contained high S. lipoferum numbers which did not correlate with soil pH (r = 0.41). Amendment with malate of acid soils was not very effective in increasing N-ase activity, but in two soils with pH above 6.4, high N-ase activity was obtained after 16 to 48 h incubation. In two soils from a temperate climate region, inoculation with S. lipoferum increased N-ase activity produced through malate amendment. Soils treated with a herbicide (Gesaprin-80) in concentrations used in the field showed ten times higher numbers of S. lipoferum than untreated soils.
20112720|2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T), 2-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)propionic acid (Silvex) and 2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid (MCPA) have moderate acute toxicity and are moderate in their local effects upon the skin or eyes. Subchronic and chronic toxicity studies indicate that none of the phenoxy acids exhibits a significant potential chronic toxicity. Dogs are most sensitive to these acids, and this is probably associated with their poor capacity for excreting organic acids in the urine. Dietary levels that overwhelm excretion in the urine, in either dogs or rats, probably result in the build-up of the acids in the body; associated with this are untoward effects on the nervous system, liver and kidney. So far, only 2,4,5-T has been shown to be teratogenic, and then only in mice at high doses (45 mg
20113021|The development of the landscape in agricultural areas is still characterized by reduction and isolation of natural and seminatural areas and by increasing uniformity of the spatial arrangement of landscape elements. The great variety of consequences to the functioning of agro-ecosystems is not yet recognized. In Germany the new keyword in landscape planning is "Biotopverbundsystem" which may be translated as "linking of habitats". This expression stands for a system of landscape structures like hedgerows, woodlots or wetlands created and managed in order to overcome the dissection of animal and plant communities and to stabilize agro-ecosystem functioning. We present data on animal populations observed during a five year field-study on an experimental habitat-linking system: -- Abiotic conditions (windspeed, evaporation) within the corridors differed from those in the adjacent fields. -- During four years the number of spider-webs per tree increased by a factor 2.3, and the number of arthropods by a factor 4.1. -- The species number of carabid beetles, ground foraging spiders, and birds showed a slight increase for forest species. Xerophilic species avoided the plantation. -- Arthropods, living in the corridor system, invaded the agricultural fields to a depth exceeding 30 m and possibly reaching 150 m.
20113132|The phenology of six major timber producing species of pines is discussed. Phenophases that represent large sinks for carbohydrates are emphasized: height, bole diameter, branch and foliage development, and root growth. The role of environmental factors in altering initiation, cessation and growth activity of each phenophase is discussed.
20113318|We present an overview of tools to monitor elements of forest biodiversity at multiple spatial scales. At the international and national policy levels, indicators aim at communicating the status and trends of biodiversity to policy-makers and the general public. However, to allow effective operations, indicators should also be developed and applied at the level of forest management units. Such practical indicators need to be adapted to the local conditions and resources available to different end users ranging from corporate companies to the owners of small non-industrial private forests. Because it is impossible to measure individually all aspects of biodiversity, there is a need for cost-efficient monitoring tools. At the policy level, international reporting is based on individual countries providing data like those collected in national forest inventories. In general, however, such programmes provide neither sufficient data on compositional (e.g., occurrence of specialised species), structural (e.g., quality of habitat networks), or functional (e.g., ecosystem processes) elements of biodiversity to allow effective monitoring. At the management unit level the development of comprehensive biodiversity monitoring systems is still in its infancy, although the testing of indicators system encompassing many major elements of forest biodiversity showed promising results at the scale of both stands and landscapes. However, real-life applications of such systems are still rare. There is a need for continuous evaluation both of the scientific validity of indicators, and of the degree to which the results from indicator systems can be interpreted and communicated to stakeholders at all relevant levels. Moreover, we argue that the monitoring of forest biodiversity should not only deal with individual areas covered by forest or ancient cultural woodland today, but rather be applied in geographically contiguous units representing actual landscape mosaics or watersheds.
20113206|Nature conservation movements during the 20th century and their relations to various ecological research approaches are outlined. The background to the research programme 'Remnant habitats in production landscapes' is presented and study areas and their history are described. This research program was directed towards effects of various disturbances, including forest management and areal restrictions, on natural communities and species populations and this approach is well compatible with an emerging emphasis on conservation of ecosystems rather than of species. The future of such a new research paradigm in conservation biology is assessed and possible new research directions are discussed.
20113303|The appearance of the natural disturbance dynamics paradigm in forest ecology has contributed to a more diversified view of forest dynamics. Disturbances in forests range from small to large-scale and from abiotic to biotic, and the mix varies considerably among regions. It is currently acknowledged that boreal forest disturbance and successional features may vary substantially according to the characteristics of the dominant tree species, local site conditions, landscape and regional climate. This has important consequences for how forests ought to be managed by protection, management and restoration to produce renewable resources, maintain biodiversity, and provide ecosystem services. Focussing on Europe's conifer-dominated forests we present different disturbances, disturbance regimes and forest vegetation types found in boreal, hemiboreal and mountain forests. For developing practical approaches to biodiversity conservation it is useful to separate three broadly defined types of forest dynamics 1) succession after severe stand-replacing disturbances, 2) cohort dynamics related to partial disturbances and 3) gap dynamics caused by the death of individual trees or small groups of trees. We use this classification to discuss and define approaches for conservation planning and sustainable forest management. Developing management methods for maintenance of viable populations and important ecosystem processes requires an understanding of how the quality, size, juxtaposition and functional connectivity of the different forest vegetation elements affect species and ecosystem processes at the landscape scale. We emphasise the need for both conservation of networks of forest with different dynamics and studying large intact forest areas which are representative for different ecoregions.
20112789|Hazards to man from the use of entomopathogenic bacteria as pesticides are infection, poisoning by toxins, allergy and persistence or multiplication of the bacteria in the environment. Such risks are illustrated by consideration of the etiology of a human pathogen, Bacillus anthracis, and a soil bacterium Bacillus cereus, that occasionally causes food poisoning. The design of safety tests is based on an assessment of the stages in the production and use of bacterial pesticides when risk could occur and the routes of risks involved. Study of the etiology of the entomopathogens in their target insect hosts also provides information about possible hazards to man. Data from safety tests and from insect pathology must be combined in risk assessment. This is illustrated by detailed consideration of two entomopathogens that have been subjected to safety tests, registered and used without restriction as pesticides for many years. One, Bacillus popilliae, is specific to ground beetles (Scarabaeidae), very fastidious in its in vitro growth requirements and the spores remain dormant unless eaten by a target beetle. The other, Bacillus thuringiensis, produces a number of toxins and grows readily in vitro. Its pesticidal use, possible replication and persistence in food, soil and the public water supply are subjected to risk analysis. Both bacteria are considered eminently safe, a conclusion supported by the commercial use of at least 3000 tons to date without incident. It is concluded that the basis for risk analysis of pesticidal bacteria is now well established.
20113257|The structure of the VORTEX computer simulation model for population viability analysis is outlined. The program flow is described here in order to provide a detailed specification of the structure of a widely used population viability analysis model. VORTEX is an individual-based simulation program that models the effects of mean demographic rates, demographic stochasticity, environmental variation in demographic rates, catastrophes, inbreeding depression, harvest and supplementation, and metapopulation structure on the viability of wildlife populations. The model facilitates analysis of density-dependent reproduction and changing habitat availability, and most demographic rates can optionally be specified as flexible functions of density, time, population gene diversity, inbreeding, age, and sex. VORTEX projects changes in population size, age and sex structure, and genetic variation, as well as estimating probabilities and times to extinction and recolonization.
20113256|The new Red List system from the World Conservation Union (IUCN) constitutes five sets of quantitative criteria (denoted A-E) for identifying threatened species. All criteria are based on quantitative thresholds. A-D focus on a few commonly known risk factors while only E requires a full analysis of extinction risk. To date, nearly all Red List assessments have been based on criteria A-D. Criterion E is seldomly used, partly because of assessors' unfamiliarity with existing population viability analysis (PVA) methods, but also because data are usually inadequate for such analyses. However, to more rigorously examine the causes of the limited application, I compared estimated risk levels using PVAs to levels estimated using other criteria. I assessed risk levels for Swedish animal and plant populations and also properties of these analysed species that may influence the listing process. With very few exceptions, the threat category suggested according to the PVAs (criterion E) indicated a lower risk level than the category met by the criteria A-D. I also found that PVAs were performed on a biased set of species, i.e., most often for vertebrates with small populations that were threatened by factors affecting individuals in a way that can be described by a pure stochastic model. In contrast, PVAs were rarely performed for plants or invertebrates, species with large but decreasing populations, or species affected by deterministically negative changes in habitat or other resources. Additional reasons for the dominance of criteria A-D in the Red Lists may be a lack of congruence between the extinction risks expressed by the different criteria A-E. For instance, as a consequence of criterion E operating with fixed time windows, the threat category met may represent a too conservative view in cases where the PVA extinction risk trajectory has a sigmoid shape over time.
20113248|We review the use of patch occupancy metapopulation models for viability analysis of spatially structured populations. These models are parameterized using species presence-absence data from one or more surveys of a habitat patch network. Occupancy models do not include a description of local population dynamics within habitat patches. On the other hand, occupancy models such as the incidence function model and the logistic regression model can incorporate information on the sizes, qualities and spatial locations of habitat patches, and how these patch attributes influence local extinctions and colonizations. For metapopulations in markedly patchy habitats, occupancy models have been used successfully to predict patterns of local extinction and colonization and the persistence of species in patch networks. In such situations, it is doubtful whether more data-intensive and complex demographic models would yield any more reliable predictions than the relatively simple occupancy models. We review the Levins model, the incidence function model and the logistic regression model -- their assumptions, data requirements and types of predictions -- and discuss their advantages and limitations. We also review selected case studies in which these models have been used in conservation assessments.
20112801|This paper is an introduction to a long-term ecosystem study of Swedish coniferous forests. The general objective of this study was to deepen our knowledge of plant growth interpreted in an ecosystem context. The realization of this aim by investigating energy exchange, water turnover, consumption by insects, decomposition of organic matter, mineralization of nutrients, uptake by roots, gas exchange and assimilate dynamics, etc. is outlined. Mathematical simulation models were developed. These models were used for problem formulation and, besides being tools for integrating knowledge, they were also useful for organizing the research.
20112962|The flora and fauna of the acidified Lake Grdsjn have been qualitatively and quantitatively described. The ecosystem showed many differences when compared with non-acidified oligotrophic lakes. There were, for instance, fewer planktonic species, fewer fragmentators and other grazers in the littoral zone, the Sphagnum mat had expanded to cover large parts of the bottom area. There has been a change on the top predator level, from fish to macroinvertebrate predators, insects in particular. It is evident that the described alterations of the biotic system have a multi-causal background with both abiotic and biotic components.
20112680|The study of the role nitrogen fixation plays in a black spruce forest is being undertaken as part of a larger project which is hoping to obtain a basic understanding of the structure and function of this typical Alaskan taiga ecosystem. With acetylene reduction as the research method, weekly and biweekly samples have been taken during the 1975 and 1976 active seasons. Although nitrogen fixing lichens exhibit high rates of nitrogenase activity, they compose a small percentage of the plant cover. Mosses account for 96% of the plant cover at the research site and most of these samples exhibit nitrogenase activity. Although epiphytic algae are suspected to be the nitrogen fixing agents, their existence is sporadic, leaving questions to be answered. Relationships between nitrogenase activity, moisture, temperature and day length are also shown. Moisture appears to be the major abiotic controller, but is at times overshadowed by temperature and/or day length.
20112787|The physiological and genetical damage induced by chemical pesticides in non-target organisms and the increasing resistance of many insect pests have stimulated investigations on biological insecticides. Among these, baculoviruses have been found to be well suited for pest control. These viruses are generally occluded in a polyhedral inclusion body. They are called nuclear polyhedrosis viruses (NPVs) and granulosis viruses (GVs). Replication takes place in the larval cells, resulting in the death of the caterpillars. For pest control, spraying of water-suspended material from dead or diseased larvae can be used to introduce baculoviruses artificially into the ecosystem at the right time. As demonstrated in many experiments and by field analysis, baculoviruses are very specific agents. Wildlife and man have never shown signs of health disturbances after contact with NPVs or GVs. Also, no replication of baculovirus has been found in other non-target organisms. They seem to be safe biological insecticides. In several countries, NPVs are commercially produced in vivo and used for pest control. A technology for virus production in cell cultures is under investigation. This development requires well-established cellular, biochemical and immunological test systems for the identification and characterization of the viruses replicated both in vivo and in vitro. Test methods using vertebrates or vertebrate cell cultures are of special importance for detecting eventual mutagenic hazards for mammals and man both at the somatic and the cytogenetic level. This paper deals with present knowledge of the safety of baculoviruses for non-target organisms and for the ecosystem.
43908650|Samples of muscle, liver, and eye from a total of 438 naturally hatched Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) parr, collected from six rivers in northern Sweden, were electrophoretically examined for 23 enzymes corresponding to 45 scoreable loci. Statistically significant alele frequency differences at four polymorphic loci (AAT-3, ME-2, PGM-1, SDH-1) between sample localities suggest that the Atlantic salmon is naturally subdivided into genetically distinct subpopulations, between as well as within major drainage areas. Mean values for the average heterozygosity (H), and the proportion of polymorphic loci (P), across locations were estimated to be 0.023 and 0.074, respectively, which is within the range of estimates reported for other salmonids. Approximately 9 percent of the total gene diversity was found between populations. The average genetic distance between populations (D = 0.0028; Nei) suggests that the populations diverged rather recently, roughly 10000 to 15000 years ago. Although there is assumed to be a considerable amount of migration between locations, the gene flow between populations appears to be low and the value for the mean standardized genetic variance (FST = 0.092) indicates that the genetically effective migration rate between populations is less than one individual per year. These observations of the pattern of genetic variation between natural populations of Atlantic salmon suggest that numerous coadapted gene combinations and local adaptations within drainage areas may have been lost during the implementation of many of the recently practiced management programs.
20112732|This report includes a historical background to the use of herbicides in forestry in Sweden. At most, 100,000 ha have been treated with phenoxy herbicides in one year (1969), corresponding to 0.4% of the area of productive forest land. In 1976, 30,000 ha were treated. The most widely-used herbicide has been a combination of esters of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T), mostly in proportions 2:1. In southern Sweden, uncombined esters of 2,4,5-T have been applied to resistant species. Possible alternatives to the phenoxy herbicides are mentioned, such as ammonium ethyl carbamoylphosphonate (Krenite), N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine (glyfosat) and [(3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridyl)-oxy]acetic acid (triclopyr or Garlon 233). The application of herbicides has for a long time been carried out mostly by fix-winged aeroplanes, except during years when this was banned.
20112684|The effects of various abiotic environmental factors on acetylene reduction by Peltigera aphthosa Willd. were examined. A comparison of intact lichen material and isolated cephalodia was made. Optimum nitrogenase activity was obtained at pH 5 and 7, 4000 lux and 20C for intact lichen material. Acetylene reduction was considerably lowered in the dark compared to light (8000 lux), but was enhanced in the absence of oxygen and initially on addition of nitrate. Air humidity and water content of the thallus influenced the activity considerably. Further, a diurnal rhythm in acetylene reduction rate was found when the material was tested in situ, with an optimum activity of 1.4 moles CH
20112952|The two invertebrate predators Chaoborus obscuripes and Glaenocorisa p. propinqua become abundant in lakes when fish disappear because of acidification or experimental means. They both consume zooplankton, predominantly cladocerans, which may lead to an increased abundance of copepods relative cladocerans. This development was shown in enclosure experiments where natural zooplankton populations were exposed to these predators. The change in the numerical balance between cladocerans and copepods which takes place in many Swedish lakes during the acidification process may partly result from the increased number of invertebrate predator species consuming zooplankton.
20112981|Soil damage in defined in terms of plant growth. Stresses on soils can arise from agricultural use of marginal soils that would be safe in their natural condition, from salinity and pollution. Most cases of damage are preventable, in that the technology is available, though it may be difficult and expensive to apply. Intensification of agriculture alone does not damage soil if it is carefully treated. Causes of irreversible damage in particular must be prevented.
20112904|The uptake rate of copper in the liver and gills of two size classes of perch, each exposed to 44 g
20112866|The physicochemical characteristics of an ecosystem into which a pollutant is deposited will determine the chemical speciation form and bioavailability of the pollutant to the indigenous microbiota. Such abiotic characteristics include pH, buffering capacity,
20113296|A new understanding or by some called a new paradigm of sustainable forest management is in the process of being defined. At the international political level in Europe, this new paradigm was shaped largely by the European states and non-governmental organisations participating in the Ministerial Conference on the Protection of Forests in Europe (MCPFE). This was achieved through agreeing on a common definition and operationalising it through a set of criteria and indicators. This concept is now gradually adapted to different national, regional and local conditions in many countries in Europe, and implementation is attempted. This paper outlines the history of international forest policy, especially of the MCPFE. It outlines the Pan-European understanding of the concept of Sustainable Forest Management (SFM), operationalised through criteria and indicators, and the recent development related to indicators for SFM. It also presents recent political decisions in Pan-European forest policy that are building on and further promote sustainable forest management as their key paradigm. These international forest policy decisions will also guide targets and influence tools for the maintenance of forest biodiversity and cause action on the national and local levels.
20112710|The sudden emission of the material contained in the trichlorophenol reaction vessel at ICMESA, a chemical plant about 20 km north of Milan, dramatically posed the problem of monitoring environmental contamination by 2,3,7,8-tetrochlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD) in a wide, densely populated area. In a few months, several thousand samples were collected and analysed for their TCDD content by a mass fragmentographic technique. The application of this sophisticated and complex analytical procedure on such a large scale was made possible by the cooperation of four laboratories: Laboratorio Provinciale di Igiene e Profilassi, Milan; Istituto Superiore di Sanit, Rome; Institute of Pharmacology and Pharmacognosy, University of Milan; and Mario Negri Pharmacological Research Institute, Milan.
20112562|Terrestrial amphipods are common in Tasmanian forest leaf litter and a diverse fauna, with a number of sympatric species, has developed. The niche differences between two species, Talitrus vulgaris and T. angulosus, have been investigated. They differ principally in their vertical distribution, T. angulosus occurring deeper in the soil during the day and migrating upwards at night and also in their size and breeding season. It is suggested that a similar situation of high species diversity in spite of low food specialization occurs in the terrestrial amphipods and competition for space is suggested as the means of regulating the populations below that which the food supply would indicate.
20112776|The start and the end of the growing season are strongly associated with soil thawing and refreezing respectively. Similarly, nutrient uptake is limited by the seasonal thaw/freeze sequence. The tundra mire of Stordalen shows a marked microrelief consisting of elevated and depressed elements. Thawing of elevated elements reaches down to smaller depths than that of depressions. Thus, the frost-table topography was observed to have a more pronounced level variation than the ground surface. These general differences in thawing are explained by the more moist conditions of depressions and the resultant higher thermal conductivity. These conditions are opposite to those observed at, for example, Barrow, Alaska. Thawing during the winter was observed at the bottom of the unfrozen layer which remains below the seasonal refreeze of the surface layer. This secondary thaw has not been described previously in the English literature. Correlation studies of seasonal thaw depths and environmental factors show pronounced relationships with thawing index and summer precipitation. Correlation with net radiation was nil or negative, however. Within the growing season, the relationships with thawing index and precipitation were best pronounced during May to June inclusive, i.e., when the thaw depth is relatively small. Later, at increasing thaw depth, the correlation almost disappears. The upper 25 cm of the root zone was frost-free for about 3 and 4 months, for elevated and depressed elements respectively. The mire surface, on the other hand, averaged a frost-free period of approximately 5 months.
20113159|The influence of air pollution on forest trees includes direct effects on foliage as well as indirect soil-mediated effects. In nitrogen-loaded areas, many forest stands show a positive growth response to the increased nitrogen input. However, with extensive soil acidification and cation leakage, damage in forest stands is frequently observed, in particular in mature forest stands. The most important soil-mediated factors which cause a reduction in fine-root growth and mycorrhizal development are: i) high nitrogen/cation ratios and ii) aluminium (Al) toxicity, viz. elevated Al/cation ratios, leading to an increased sensitivity of the root systems to environmental stress (drought, wind-break, nutrient shortage, etc.). Extensive data on fine-root growth in response to experimental manipulation of plant nutrients in the forest soil are available from many large-scale field experiments in Sweden and elsewhere. Available data have been evaluated in order to chart the effects of nitrogen and sulphur deposition on the mineral nutrient balances in tree fine roots and to assess the risk of Al interference on cation uptake. It is concluded that Al toxicity should be considered as a predisposing factor for forest decline on SW Swedish sites, reducing root function and inhibiting nutrient uptake. A chronically high nitrogen deposition is furthermore likely to produce longer-lasting damage symptoms on fine roots and their function. Aluminium-induced deficiencies of important cations in the forest trees may contribute to forest decline. In SW Swedish forest stands, potassium deficiency is likely to be another important pre-disposing factor.
20113269|The amount and spatial distribution of standing and downed dead trees were examined in a mature Scots pine Pinus sylvestris L. forest in eastern Finland. A 9-ha area was mapped for living and standing dead trees and a 2-ha plot for downed logs. For the analyses the study area was divided into two parts based on an analysis of fire history: in one part the last fire occurred in the early 19th century (old burn), while the other part had been hit by a surface fire in 1906 (1906 burn). In the two areas the amount of dead wood was computed as total volume and divided into different decay stages for both standing dead trees and downed logs. The spatial distribution of dead trees was examined using Ripley's K-function analyses. Circular statistics was used to determine the directional distribution of downed logs. The volume of standing dead trees was 14 m
20112835|Two models developed within the Swedish Coniferous Forest Project are presented. The first model, N1NIT, was used to simulate the seasonal and annual variations in nitrogen mineralization, uptake by roots and leaching in the mor layer of a pine forest soil. The second model, N1EXCH, was aimed to simulate the dynamics in soil (mor+mineral layers) of different ions after nutrient addition. A description of the structure of both models is given. Finally an outline of the experience acquired in modelling is given by discussing how these models, considered as a collection of existing knowledge, have been used to stimulate more original research.
20113313|I investigated if the distribution of insect prey influencing the breeding success and being the winter diet of three-toed woodpeckers Picoides tridactylus changed with edge proximity in old-growth forest patches, and if edge effects depended upon the management history of the surrounding matrix. Measurements of three-toed woodpecker habitat quality during two years included the number of bark beetle species, a variable positively associated with the woodpecker brood size, the relative abundance of woodboring beetles, whose larvae account for the bulk of nestlings' diet, and the relative abundance of bark beetles overwintering on standing spruces, its winter food. Of eight woodpecker habitat patches, five were surrounded by ditched clear-cuts and three were surrounded by untouched peatlands. Insects were sampled yearly with window-flight traps located at various distances from the nearest edge. Of 17169 beetles collected, 12843 were bark beetles (Coleoptera, Scolytidae). Contrasting patterns in woodpecker prey distribution were found in natural vs managed boreal forest landscapes. In habitat patches with natural edges and unditched surrounding, number of bark beetle species did not change and abundance of bark beetles living on standing spruces decreased from the edge into the interior part of the forest. In old-growth remnants embedded in drained managed landscapes, however, bark beetle species richness increased while abundance of spruce bark beetles found on standing trees did not change with the distance from the edge. Looking at the species composition of bark beetle communities living preferentially on logs, roots, stumps and standing trees, only the species assemblage of standing trees showed responses to edge proximity, becoming richer with increasing distance from the edge in stands with managed surrounding. Results on prey distribution suggest the importance of old-growth swamp forests in the boreal landscape to lower the threshold in the proportion of original habitats that is required to ensure the reproduction and secure the winter food supply of a viable three-toed woodpecker population.
20113300|Monetary thinking, or profit maximisation, in business is challenged by the occurrence of externalities such as loss of biodiversity. Using the production-oriented home furnishing company IKEA as case study we discuss the role of non-utilitarian values in promoting environmental responsibility, and how this can promote "green" businesses. In order to provide society with wooden products while maintaining the values of the forest ecosystems, IKEA believes that it is necessary to: 1) increase forest plantations in order to reduce the pressure on the natural forests, 2) restore ecosystem integrity in areas where the natural ecosystems have been lost and 3) stop unsustainable logging of intact natural forests and high conservation value forests. It is imperative that wood products from well-managed forests can be produced at competitive costs. Consequently, the process of certification and other means of verifying sustainable forest management need to be cost efficient without loosing performance in the field. The IKEA approach to trace the origin of the wood and to put higher demands on the wood used within the IKEA range, has been successful paths but not without challenges. The biggest challenges so far has been to secure that the wood does not come from intact natural forests, high conservation value forests or from illegal logging. The development of tools and procedures to identify, map and manage forests with high conservation values is required. Hence, it is important that forest industry, social and environmental stakeholders, in an atmosphere of mutual respect, develop routines for dialogue and agreements with regards to forest management. This is of special importance in areas which are more sensitive or valuable from an ecological or social point of view. IKEA calls on the scientific community and governments to provide credible information pertaining to forest conservation and restoration available to processes where conservation values are evaluated and negotiated.
20112605|REAL is a model of earthworm functions designed simultaneously with needed technics for estimations of ecological parameters. This compartment model includes classical element fluxes but also mechanical soil movements with their structural and microbial consequences. REAL could be used for various species or ecological categories of earthworms. REAL is appropriate for different localities. REAL is a tool for synthesis and could be a submodel of more general models. REAL deals with ecosystem analysis, study of nutrient fluxes or pollutants (radionucleids, pesticides, heavy metals, etc.) and economical estimations of agricultural techniques.
20112950|The crustacean zooplankton community in three acidified lakes may be briefly characterized by the low number of true limnetic species, the virtual absence of large cladocerans and the occurrence of littoral or benthic species in the limnetic samples. The three most common species were the calanoid copepod Eudiaptomus gracilis and the two cladocerans Bosmina coregoni and Diaphanosoma brachyurum, the same species which become dominant in lakes where the fish population has been reduced for reasons other than acidification. Invertebrate predation may be partly responsible for the structure in the zooplankton. Crustacean zooplankton communities in acidified lakes have many properties in common, regardless of the geographic location of the lakes, properties which may be a result of the close similarities in basic regularing factors of abiotic and biotic origin.
20112920|Field experimental studies on the effects of Ekofisk crude oil in intertidal rock pools were carried out in February-May 1981 in a fjord in western Norway. Single (different levels) and multiple oil exposures at successive low tides simulated different degrees of pollution on the fauna associated with Corallina officinalis L. A notable decrease in faunal abundance was recorded (over 50% within 24-48 h after exposure), followed by rapid recovery in density and community structure to pre-exposure levels (within one to four weeks after exposure). The most sensitive groups were Ostracoda, Copepoda (Harpacticoida), and Amphipoda. After multiple oil exposure some bivalves (Musculus discors, Turtonia minuta, Lasaea rubra) showed long-term (one year) responses to the oil. The importance of small-scale pollution by light oils (such as the Ekofish crude) in altering the intertidal rock pool and rocky shore community is discussed.
20112524|The problem of the fate of C, N, P, K, Ca, Mg and S in the biosphere under natural conditions and under man's impact is discussed for tundra and forest-tundra, forest, forest-steppe, and steppe zones of the European USSR. Phytomass reserves, together with the annual phytomass increment and transfer into litter, are given in addition to figures for precipitation and runoff for all systems. Prehistoric and present time patterns have been estimated in order to visualize the role of man's activities. The inputs and outputs of biophilic elements have been balanced for the different zones to see whether they are accumulating or losing any component. An attempt is also made to compare the rate of drawing elements into the biological and geological cycles for all zones. In the tundra zone the ratios of the two cycles are closer to each other for most elements than in plant communities of other zones. Cultivation of virgin and forest areas has increased the supply of elements to the geological cycle.
20113272|The aim of this study was to examine the stand structure of semi-natural and managed, mesic and sub-xeric Scots pine and Norway spruce forests in eastern Finland and Russian Karelia. The data covered a total of 79 stands measured during the years 1994-1998 in eastern Finland and in the Russian Federation. The plots used in the study represent both currently unmanaged and managed forests. The unmanaged forests, which we call semi-natural (due to slash-and-burn agriculture and light selection fellings), are located in nature protection areas. The studied variables were volume of the living tree stock, volume of the coarse woody debris (CWD), the number of tree storeys, number of tree species, proportion of deciduous trees, number of living stems, stumps, diameter range at breast height (dbh) and stand basal area. The differences between the managed and semi-natural stands were tested statistically over the entire data using analysis of variance (covariance based). Of the chosen stand characteristics, both the standing CWD and CWD on the ground, the number of tree species and the dbh range differed statistically between the managed and semi-natural forests. The average volume of CWD in both soil fertility classes was greater in the semi-natural forests over all succession stages, and it was clearly at its greatest after forest fires and lowest in the young stage. The proportion of deciduous trees differed only between the soil fertility classes. The number of tree species in managed forests was greater than that in semi-natural forests in all successional stages apart from the clear cut/burned phases. The dbh range showed considerably larger variation in semi-natural sapling and young forests. The number of living stems was greater in the managed sapling stage, while the volume of the tree stock was higher in the semi-natural sapling forests. Processes resulting in several tree storeys and the maintenance of coarse wood debris should be utilised in achieving more ecologically sustainable forest management. This means, on the one hand, lengthening the rotation while, at the same time, keeping stands in the intermediate successional stages more densely stocked.
20113278|In order to explore the importance of near-natural beech forest in maintaining the diversity of bryophytes, a near-natural montane beech stand was compared with five neighbouring managed stands of different ages in northern Hungary. Bryophyte vegetation on dead wood and volcanic rock outcrops was studied. Species richness, abundance, different diversity measures and the importance of dead wood in bryophyte diversity were analysed. Analyses are based on presence/absence data of bryophytes collected in 50  50 m sample plots in which blocks of 100 cm microplots were systematically distributed. Altogether 34 bryophytes occurred in this sample. Amount and quality of dead wood was estimated by using line intercept sampling. Bryophyte vegetation was richer in the near-natural stand, especially in the moist rocky site. Species richness, abundance, Shannon-Wiener diversity and evenness as well as diversity of realized species combinations were much higher than in any managed plot. This site also contained the largest amount and variation (tree species, size, decay phase) of dead wood. Bryophyte vegetation of the managed plots was much scarcer and much less diverse. These plots tended to contain very little dead wood of small size and early decay classes. The only exception was a recently thinned stand where the presence of fine woody debris supported a relatively high number of bryophytes including a few species inhabiting dead wood. It is argued, that successful maintenance of bryophyte diversity in central European beech forests requires not only the preservation of the small isolated near-natural stands, but also a reasonable dead wood management in the matrix of commercial forests. Large and hence long lasting logs are inevitable in providing appropriate establishment sites for the most sensitive hepatics that are rare habitat specialists with limited dispersal capacity.
20112954|Results of chemical analyses of a sediment core from a 10 m deep basin in Lake Grdsjn, an acidified lake in southwestern Sweden, are given. The pH value of the lake water has decreased from around 6 to 4.5 during the course of recent decades. The aim of the investigation was to study the geochemical effects involved in this rapid process. At the sampling site, the net annual sediment accumulation rate in terms of organic and inorganic material has not changed substantially since the lake became acidified. Concomitant to the acidification the net accumulation rate of iron and perhaps aluminium has increased and the net accumulation of calcium and manganese has decreased. The accumulation of chromium, copper and vanadium shows an increasing trend, although perhaps not as pronounced as could be expected considering the history of air pollution. The nickel and lead accumulation has decreased slightly during recent years which most likely reflects the decreased atmospheric loading. There is no doubt, howewer, that the net accumulation rate of cadmium and zinc has decreased markedly in recent times due to the acidification. The estimated net annual accumulation of these two metals has now returned to the same level as during the beginning of the present century. No corresponding reduction in the fall-out from the atmosphere has taken place.
20112663|Two small subarctic lakes -- Lake Stugsjn and Lake Hymenjaure -- situated at 6827'N and 1827'E were included in an experimental lake fertilization program, where L. Stugsjn served as a reference lake, while L. Hymenjaure was subjected to weekly additions of phosphorus in 1972-1974 and of nitrogen and phosphorus in 1975. N-fixation was assayed in situ on periphytic algal communities using the acetylene reduction technique. Midday acetylene reduction in L. Stugsjn was usually less than 10 moles CH
20112601|The results of kinetics of root exudation during the first month of plant cultivation are reported. Both the quantity and the qualitative composition of the root exudates change significantly during plant ontogeny. Special attention was paid to the release of polysaccharides by the roots of wheat and maize. The kinetics of exudation of polysaccharides agreed with the kinetics of exudates determined after lyophilization either gravimetrically or on the basis of total carbon. In the presence of microorganisms, the amount of substances released by plant roots increased significantly. On joint cultivation of maize or wheat with Pseudomonas putida where the root exudates served as the sole source of carbon and energy, the amount of exudates released was 2-2.6 times greater than in the case of aseptically grown plants.
20113231|We examined the influences of CO and light availability on tree responses to defoliation through experimental manipulations of plant growth conditions and exposure to herbivory. The experimental system consisted of three species of deciduous trees (quaking aspen Populus tremuloides; paper birch Betula papyrifera; sugar maple Acer saccharum). The trees were grown in glasshouses under ambient (387 8 L
20112678|The results of the measurement of moisture contents and acetylene reduction rates are presented for Scots pine sapwood (Pinus sylvestris L.) exposed to 25%, 35% and 40% soil moisture contents. When soil at 25% was wet to 50%, a large increase in wood moisture content occurred. The acetylene reduction rate also increased simultaneously. Weight loss during the experiment was minimal. The occurrence of nitrogen fixing bacteria is influenced by soil moisture content and the implications relating to the significance of these organisms to timber decay are briefly discussed.
20112911|Plants of Viscaria alpina (L.) G. Don. growing in an area of naturally copper rich soil and those in an adjacent normal soil were compared. The reasons for the copper tolerance of this species were sought at different biological organizational levels. The apices of many of the small lateral roots of the plants from the copper rich soil were either dead or abnormal. The root systems were much more irregularly branched than those of the control group. As a rule no continuous tap root was found on the plants from the copper rich soil. The capacity to form new adventitious, lateral roots as and when necessary is considered to be important for the survival of the latter plants. At the cellular level, in the cortical cells of the differentiating zone of the root apex, copper was stored both in the cell wall and in the cytoplasm; in the latter to a greater extent.
20113275|We investigated substrate associations for insects breeding in polypore fruiting bodies, which constitute a particular microhabitat among dead-wood substrates. Data were collected by rearing insects from fruiting bodies of Fomitopsis pinicola and Fomes fomentarius collected in the field. The entire insect community, including primary consumers, predators and parasitoids was investigated. Of 26 species 10 were reared from both polypore species; four species were designated monophagous on F. pinicola and six on F. fomentarius. Height above ground, size of the fruiting body and successional stage were the factors that influenced the occurrence of most species, although no single factor was important for all species in the study. One group of species predominantly occurred in shaded, moist substrates. Another group of species was associated with some degree of sun exposure, and for species in this group that live in F. fomentarius, optimal sites are probably sparsely forested deciduous woodlands. Monophagous species occurred in earlier successional stages than polyphagous species and we suggest that host chemistry is an important factor involved in the selection of breeding substrate. It is clear that host and site associations differ substantially between insect species inhabiting polypore fungi, underlining the need for a diverse supply of dead wood substrates in order to preserve biodiversity.
20112948|The increase in the growth of benthic filamentous algae is one of the most visible effects of acid precipitation on oligotrophic lakes. It is still unclear which factors are involved in this process. This paper takes up the structural characteristic and production capacity of the epiphytic algae associated with Lobelia dortmanna L. Studies were done in the acidified Lake Grdsjn, southwestern Sweden. Productivity values were significantly correlated with the chlorophyll a content, total surface area and volume of the epiphytic algal cells. Optimal conditions of production for the Lobelia-epiphyte complex were found at 1.0 m depth. Daily productivity correlated best with number, surface area and volume of Eunotia veneris and E. rhomboidea cells. These diatoms formed a firmly attached cover on Lobelia leaves, which also included sessile bacteria and blue-green algae. This epiphytic cover had a high photosynthetic capacity. The slow-growing green algal genera. Mougeotia spp. and Binuclearia spp., were main components of a loosely attached community with a low production capacity. This supports suggestions that the accumulation of benthic algal biomass observed in the littoral of the lake is not a result of their high net production, but rather, is an effect of reduced grazing intensity and reduced rates of decomposition.
20113211|Finnish and Swedish naturalist have always been interested in the ecology of island life. This is not surprising, concerning the enormous amount of islands along the Swedish and Finnish coasts. Stockholm archipelago, the largest archipelago in Sweden, alone consists of ca 30 000 islands. Although geologically old, life is quite a recent phenomenon on these bedrock islands. Most islands are still rising out of the sea with a speed ranging from 10 mm
20113208|We review patterns and processes important for the biodiversity in Fennoscandian wetland mosaic landscapes, describe man's past and present impact, and outline a strategy for conservation. The boreal landscape was earlier characterized by a mosaic of open and forested wetlands and forests. Drainage and felling operations have largely changed that pattern. Several organisms depend upon the landscape mosaic. Natural ecotones between mire and forest provide food resources predictable in space and time contrasting to unpredictable edges in the silvicultured landscape. The mosaic is also a prerequisite for organisms dependent on non-substitutable resources in the landscape. The importance of swamp forests has increased as they function as refugia for earlier more widespread old-growth species. Programmes for maintaining biodiversity in the boreal landscape should include the following points. First, the natural mosaic with open and forested wetlands must be maintained. Second, swamp forests must receive a general protection as they often constitute the only old-growth patches in the landscape. Third, we need to restore earlier disturbance regimes. Present strategy plans for conservation are insufficient, as they imply that a too large proportion of boreal organisms will not be able to survive outside protected areas. Instead, we need to focus more on how to preserve organisms in the man-influenced landscape. As a first step we need to understand how organisms are distributed in landscapes at various spatial scales. We need studies in landscapes where the original mosaic has faced various degrees of fragmentation.
20112715|Phenoxyacetic acid derivatives react in several ways on photolysis. Efficient dehalogenation takes place in the presence of hydrogen donors, while in inert solvents side-chain cleavage yields halophenols, which may undergo photonucleophilic reactions to give polyhydroxybenzenes and polymers but also, sometimes, predioxins or dioxins. Fortunately, formation of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD) has been observed only from predioxin and not from phenoxy acid derivatives. Some quantitative aspects of the potential metabolic route from phenoxy acids to dioxins are discussed.
20112687|The association between Azolla and Anabaena azollae is rather specific and intimate. The association in Anabaena-free Azolla plants could not be resynthesized as the algal symbiont was unable to produce independent growth on conventional culture media. Moreover, Anabaena-free plants did not become re-infected when planted on non-sterile mud or liquid media. The continuity of the algal association after complete disappearance of the surface growth of Azolla (the periodic crash of the Azolla mat) is maintained by the presence of algal cells within the macrosporocarp of the fern. In young macrosporocarps the algal cells are able to produce some (non-nitrogen-fixing) growth and in this stage they fill the free space inside the sporocarp completely. In a maturing macrosporocarp, the algae are pressed to the top region of the sporocarp by the expansion of macrosporic accessory structures, i.e. the massulae. The algal cells within the sporocarp are not "akinetes", since they have thin cell walls. Heterocysts were never observed within macrosporocarps and in agreement with this these algae did not fix nitrogen. The association between plant and endophyte is maintained in sexual reproduction as the cotyledon leaf within the macrospore complex, on its route to the exterior, traps the endophytic algae at the apex of the macrosporocarp. In its further development the algae become closely associated with the apical meristem developing near the center of the cotyledon leaf. Azolla plants have a very uniform geometric leaf-branch system, especially A. pinnata and therefore nitrogen fixation and heterocyst frequency could be measured per individual leaf and per leaf number starting from the apex. Two distinct peaks of nitrogen fixation were found along the main axis as well as in the lateral axes. Heterocyst frequency in the leaves increased from apex along the stem axis basipetally. At the apex heterocyst frequency was below 10%, but increased to a maximum of 45-50% at leaf numbers 11-13. The reason for the nitrogen fixation gradient is discussed. A large increase of cell size of vegetative algal cells was observed in the successive leaf numbers from the apex.
20112830|A modulized system of physically based models for abiotic processes in a Scots pine forest ecosystem was constructed within the Swedish Coniferous Forest Project. Composite models built of process modules were used to define the forest microclimate for models of tree growth, soil nutrients and photosynthesis. Semi-empirical formulas for regional forest evapotranspiration were found not to work properly without description of turbulent roughness and surface resistance. Snow dynamics and frost in the soil were successfully simulated by use of the specific energy concept. Snow melt was horizontally heterogeneous and was shown to infiltrate through the frost zone. Capillary rise to the lower frost boundary could be substantial. Soil water flow was simulated both in heterogeneous and, with limited amounts of soil data, in homogeneous soils. It was shown that resistances to water uptake cannot be separated into root and soil parts but must be treated in bulk. Soil heat flow was most sensitive to the insulating humus layer and a proper description of the soil surface temperature presented difficulties.
20113301|In Switzerland, the forest area has been increasing since the 19th century and is growing at a rate of 0.4%
20113255|The incidence function model (IFM) is a spatially realistic metapopulation model, in which extinction and colonisation probabilities are estimated from empirical data. We tested whether an IFM can be applied to quantify spatial habitat requirements for the protection and long-term survival of the tree frog Hyla arborea in Zealand Flanders, using a time series of three consecutive annual distribution patterns and dispersal data. The tree frog is an endangered species in the Netherlands and its distribution pattern is highly fragmented. An extended IFM was developed in which habitat quality parameters were incorporated to estimate functions for colonisation and extinction. A new method to estimate colonisation and extinction functions was developed, using both the turnover events between years and the spatial distribution pattern of the first year of survey. A logistic regression analysis indicated that the extinction probability decreased with pond size and that colonisation probability was higher for large ponds with high connectivity. The observed dispersal distances in comparison with the distances between ponds showed that the habitat network was still connected by dispersing individuals. The extended IFM quite accurately predicted the distribution pattern within a few years. However long-term predictions of metapopulation persistence were probably optimistic. A three-year data set is too short to incorporate the total range of fluctuations of population numbers between years. In addition deterministic extinctions due to habitat destruction and the loss of suitable habitat caused by natural succession were not incorporated in the model. It is concluded that the model could be a useful tool for conservation assessment when comparing different nature restoration scenarios and to provide general guidelines for an optimal tree frog landscape.
20112611|In the present paper an attempt has been made to correlate the total litter respiration and the soil microarthropods and mycoflora associated with litter. The litter respiration, measured by the alkali absorbtion method, was found to be highly correlated with (1) the microarthropod population (r = 0.903; P &lt 0.01) and (2) the mycofloral population (r = 0.79; P &lt 0.1). An allometric equation was developed for both the parameters i.e. mycoflora versus total litter respiration (y = 0.4425 + 0.601 x) and microarthropods versus total litter respiration (y = 12792 + 18 x), in order to presume one variable by knowing the other. Ecological factors like rainfall, humidity, temperature (air &amp; litter), litter moisture, pH (litter) were also recorded and noted to exert some significant effects upon the biological activities of the soil.
20112818|Abundance, faeces production, green litter production and grazing of different groups of needle-eating insects were repeatedly estimated and compared with available needle biomass in a mature Pinus sylvestris L. stand at Ivantjrnsheden, Central Sweden, in 1974. Abundance, grazing and needle biomass were determined from samples of foliage taken by means of a skylift, while faeces and green litter production were estimated by means of litter-traps placed on the ground. From known bioelement concentrations, bioelement fluxes with faeces and green litter were calculated. The insect populations were in endemic numbers; for the groups "Microlepidoptera", Geometridae, Noctuidae, Lasiocampidae/Sphingidae and Diprionidae maximal figures were 33 100, 18 100, 4 100, 1 300 and 19 200 specimens
20113138|Repeated fertilization of a Pinus elliottii var elliottii stand in Florida resulted in increased leaf area, increased aggregate canopy photosynthesis and increased tree growth. We used output from a simulation model and field observations to evaluate alternative response mechanisms to fertilization, and to evaluate the effect of the warm Florida night temperatures on carbon (C) gain. We found that only a small (c. 5%) simulated change in C allocation from fine root biomass to foliage produced a stem biomass increase of 74 g
20113139|Soil carbon cycling rates and carbon budgets were calculated for stands of four pine species, Pinus sylvestris (at Jdras, Sweden), P. densiflora (Hiroshima, Japan), P. elliottii (Florida, USA) and P. radiata (Canberra, Australia), using a simulation model driven by daily observations of mean air temperature and precipitation. Inputs to soil carbon through litterfall differ considerably among the four pine forests, but the accumulation of the A layer and humus in mineral soil is less variable. Decomposition of the A layer and humus is fastest for P. densiflora and slowest for P. sylvestris stands with P. radiata and P. elliottii intermediate. The decomposition rate is lower for the P. elliottii stand than for P. densiflora in spite of its higher temperatures and slightly higher precipitation. Seasonal changes in simulated soil carbon are observed only for the A layer at the P. densiflora site. Simulated soil respiration rates vary seasonally in three stands (P. sylvestris, P. densiflora and P. radiata). In simulations for pine trees planted on bare soil, all soil organic matter fractions except the humus in mineral soil recover to half their asymptotic values within 30 to 40 years of planting for P. sylvestris and P. densiflora, compared with 10 to 20 years for P. radiata and P. elliottii. The simulated recovery of soil carbon following clear-cutting is fastest for the P. elliottii stand and slowest for P. sylvestris. Management of P. elliottii and P. radiata stands on 40-year rotations is sustainable because carbon removed through harvest is restored in the interval between successive clear-cuts. However P. densiflora and P. sylvestris stands may be unable to maintain soil carbon under such a short rotation. High growth rates of P. elliottii and P. radiata stands in spite of relatively poor soil conditions and slow carbon cycling may be related to the physiological responses of species to environmental conditions. The lower decomposition rate of needle litter compared to broad-leaf litter restricts the entire soil carbon cycle in pine forests. Pine forests can however achieve relatively high growth rates even when planted on poor soils. The treatment of soil nutritional feedbacks on plant production is identified as an area for future model improvement.
20112685|Preliminary data have been obtained on the relationships of N-fixing Nostoc with the liverworts Anthoceros punctatus and Blasia pusilla and with the fungus in Peltigera canina. The hepatic-cyanophyte symbioses are particularly amenable to experimentation since the components can be grown separately and the symbioses can be easily re-established. The symbioses are highly specific and of 18 blue-green algae tested only 3, all species of Nostoc (from Blasia, Anthoceros and Gunnera) developed colonies in Blasia. The cyanophytes fix
20113165|Time series studies on vegetation changes in European coniferous forests are reviewed in relation to nitrogen deposition. In areas with high N deposition, grasses had increased together with mean indicator values for nitrogen. The same type of changes have been recorded in nitrogen fertilization experiments. In order to investigate whether such vegetation changes only take place at high N deposition levels, we performed a five-year experiment in which nitrogen was applied to the field layer in a coniferous forest in central Sweden. There were five different fertilization treatments: i) control with no extra nitrogen, ii) 0.5, iii) 1.0, iv) 2.0, and v) 4.0 g N
20112889|Heavy-metal contaminated soil samples from column experiments were studied with the scanning electron microscope and energy dispersive X-ray analysis. The precipitates formed on the surface of sand grains from leachates without fatty acids. These leachates had a composition similar to that of percolants entering the soil profile beneath a landfill. Most of the elements in the precipitates were already present in the original fluids used for percolation, but others originated in the soil column itself. Precipitates with heavy metals and sulphur were also present on the surface of a water-tube filter used to raise water from a reservoir. Corrosion of the copper filter could be established as well as a decrease in the quantity of the copper with an increase in the distance of precipitates from the surface of the tube. Iron, however, was most represented at some distance from the wall of the water-tube. The application of electron microscopic techniques allows the analysis of most chemical elements. However, if all chemical elements and trace elements must be measured in thin sections of manmade precipitates, ion microscopy is necessary. Such in situ microanalytical measurements can be done quantitatively and should allow a comparison of solid and wet chemical data obtained by a variety of techniques.
20112938|By using tritium as a tracer, injected in a grid pattern in two forest catchments (2.8 ha and 3.6 ha) at the Swedish west coast, and monitoring the draining streams, the transit time distributions of the water existing in the catchments were assessed. The tracer was injected as "percolating water" under the root zone to decrease losses through evapotranspiration. The results show that about 40% of the water stored in the catchments is replaced during a year. This may be characteristic for this particular combination of topography-geology and climate and indicates a rather "shallow" groundwater circulation. As to longer transit times, they cannot be assessed without continued observations of tritium in the run-off from the basins. This part is, however, of great importance since it may have time to neutralize the acid substances added from the atmosphere.
20113195|Recorded and calculated summer air temperatures at Abisko (6821N, 1849E, 388 m a.s.l.) from 1868 to 1994 are discussed in relation to changes of altitudinal tree line and distribution patterns of mountain birch near the beach of Lake Tornetrsk. The broad features of the temperature variations are: there are only minor changes from the 1870's to c. 1900 when a rise of c. 1.5C took place ending in c. 1940. Since then there has been a decline of c. 0.5C in the long-term trend. The peak air temperatures measured in the 1930's appear to be associated with a 20-50 altitudinal rise of the species limit of mountain birch on the eastern slope of Mt Njulla whereas the potential altitudinal rise, calculated from the temperature increase of 1.0C and typical mean summer lapse rates, is &gt200 m. Based on the continuous pine dendrochronologies from the Tornetrsk region, it is suggested that the vertical changes of the tree line on the eastern slope of Mt Njulla are small since 500 AD. The reason is that 50 yr mean anomalies of summer temperatures may be too small to induce any significant altitudinal movements. The importance of edaphic and micrometeorological factors for the response to climate of the subalpine heaths below the altitudinal tree line are discussed.
20112972|The study of plant population biology in tundra and boreal regions is not new but the number of studies is small. Consequently, population biology theory which has been developed in temperate regions where plant competition, self-thinning and opportunistic growth are of particular importance, largely neglects population processes associated with severe physical environments. In these environments, density dependent survival appears to replace the density dependent mortality of temperate populations while strongly deterministic growth replaces opportunistic growth. The severe physical environment of the tundra selects species which grow slowly over prolonged life cycles. In open habitats, sexual reproduction or vivipary predominate and deterministic cushion and tussock growth forms are common. In closed vegetation, clonal growth predominates in which foraging branches are subsidised in terms of nutrients, water and carbon by older modules within the clone. Age class distributions arising from sexual reproduction show high mortality of the youngest age classes in contrast to the high probabilities of survival of the large ramets arising from vegetative reproduction. It must be inferred, therefore, that selection acts on the youngest genets but, unfortunately, most investigations of adaptation consider only mature individuals. A major priority for future research is to use a strategic approach to form an interface between demography and ecophysiology. This approach allows some assessment to be made of the severity of various components of the physical environment while providing a basis for understanding the mechanisms of co-existence which is so important in the tundra.
20113197|This study summarizes the responses of soil and plant processes to experimental manipulation of air temperatures and nutrients in three subarctic ecosystems at Abisko, N Sweden and compares the treatment effects across a wider latitudinal gradient ranging from the temperate zone in the U.K. to the High Arctic in Svalbard. The temperature enhancement of 2-4C is within the most commonly predicted range of temperature increase in the Arctic if atmospheric CO doubles, and the fertilizer addition simulated the expected increase of nutrient mineralization rates in warmer arctic soils. Soil nutrient mineralization was not, however, affected by the temperature increase, probably because the soil warming was slight, and the soils were even cooled in some circumstances. Fertilizer application increased the N and P content in soil microbial biomass indicating a substantial potential for microbial nutrient immobilization. Both the temperature enhancement and the application of fertilizer caused responses in plant growth and reproductive output. The responses to fertilizer application were often stronger than those to temperature. Responses to temperature were greatest at the sites closest to the northern or upper climatic distributional limits for the species studied. For instance, boreal dwarf shrubs responded strongly at a forest understorey site which was close to their distributional limit, although this site did not experience extreme climatic conditions in comparison to the other sites along the gradient. Low arctic shrubs and dwarf shrubs did not respond at a subarctic tree-line site, whereas all species investigated hitherto responded by increased growth at the climatically most harsh site at a high altitude fellfield. Reproductive output was increased by temperature perturbation. Vegetatively, plants responded to enhanced temperature with greater branching or shoot formation, and although individual leaves and branches also grew more in most cases, their response to temperature manipulation was less marked. Nutrient concentration declined in species which showed enhanced growth in response to increased temperature, probably because constrained nutrient uptake due to the lack of increased soil nutrient mineralization resulted in low availability of plant nutrients. The integrated response of plants and microbes is discussed in the context of possible sink to source status for CO in a warmer Arctic.
20113151|The critical loads of acid deposition have been mapped for Swedish forest soils using PROFILE at 1804 within the Swedish Forest Inventory. The results of the calculations show that Swedish forest soils are sensitive to acid deposition. A deposition reduction of 85% for sulphur deposition and 40% for nitrogen deposition in relation to the 1980 deposition level is required in order to protect 95% of the forest resource in Sweden. This corresponds to a target load of &gt6 kg S
20112968|Periglacial geomorphology in North America is a rigorous branch of process geomorphology with important applied applications. Since frost action and permafrost are central themes, periglacial geomorphology must be regarded as part of the science of geocryology. Current research problems include the cryogenic weathering of bedrock, frost heave and ice segregation, the nature and origins of ground ice, and active layer processes.
20112594|Root parasitic nematodes (herbivores) may be classified as ectoparasites which remain outside the root; semi-endoparasites which are partially embedded in host tissue and endoparasites which feed totally within root tissue. Some species exhibit feeding location preference for the meristem, the zone of elongation, or the maturation region. One root system may provide separate, noncompeting, niches for as many as four nematode genera. Feeding on root cells may cause mechanical injury or physiological disturbances. Any one or combinations of these processes may result in devitalized root meristem activity; retarded root extension growth; lesions and necrosis of root tips, epidermis, or cortex; and root galls. Root meristem feeders appear to be correlated with alterations in the auxin-hormone balance of the vegetative position of the plant. Cortical and vascular feeders appear to be correlated with a reduction in efficiency of the root in sorption of nutrients and water. The more specialized and advanced the nematode's parasitism, the more dominant that nematode will be in the agroecosystem. In limited studies there appears to be little interaction or competition between herbivores and microbivores.
20112723|The phenoxyacetic acid 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T) has been studied in rats from three separate points of view: (i) behavioral teratology; (ii) taste-aversion inducing properties; and (iii) physiological effects on thyroid regulation, food- and water-intake and amino acid distribution. Longstanding behavioral and learning deficits were produced by a single 100 mg
20112813|An attempt was made to maximize the biomass production of young pines in a field experiment by eliminating the main growth-limiting factors, i.e., water and mineral nutrients. There were three treatments in addition to the control: irrigation, fertilization and irrigation plus fertilization. The pine needles were analyzed for their contents of macronutrients and most nitrogen was found in needles from fertilized plots. In fertilized plus irrigated plots the N-content was lower and not within the range for maximum growth. The effects of the treatments on vegetation are also described.
20112820|Tree biomass fractions were investigated in several Scots pine stands of different age-classes. Biomass and development of biomass are analyzed, and methods of calculating the amount of biomass by non-destructive methods are discussed. An attempt is made to describe changes in tree biomass fractions during stand development.
20112951|In a study of three acidified lakes, we found a clear habitat separation between the three most abundant corixid species. Cymatia bonsdorffi had a pronounced littoral habitat and Arctocorisa germari a limnetic habitat. No significant overlap between the habitats of these two species was found. The third species, Glaenocorisa propingua, was less specialized in its choice of habitat and utilized both types. Glaenocorisa propinqua and Arctocorisa germari showed adaptations to a limnetic mode of life such as relatively high swimming velocity and low frequency of surface visits. Characteristic features of the corixid community in acidified lakes are also discussed. Some species of waterbugs (Corixidae, Hemiptera-Heteropteta) are suitable prey organisms for fish and are not adapted to co-existence with fish predators. These species are not found in lakes containing fish but are abundant in fishless waters such as many acidified lakes.
20112672|Effects of assay gas diffusion into, and of CH evolution from the soil layer during assay of heterotrophic CH reduction in water-logged soils were investigated at various pressures of soil evacuation (1.0 to 0.01 atm) and assay gas flushing (1.0 to 1.7 atm), at various repetitions (1 to 5 times) and at various pCH of assay gas (0.02 to 0.1 atm) for the former, and with or without soil vibration (for 1 min) for the latter. The largest activities were attained when the soil was submitted to 1-min evacuation at 0.01 atm and 1-min flushing four times with the CH-containing assay gas at 1 atm, followed by the assay incubation for several hours and 1 min vibration by a "Thermo-mixer" prior to gas phase sampling, to expel CH bubbles trapped in the soil. This procedure was, therefore, proposed for the assay of water-logged soils. These activities were 6 to 8 times larger than those in the same soil, but assayed without soil evacuation and vibration. The higher the pCH of the assay gas the larger the activity of the same soil tended to be, but even the pCH at 0.1 atm that was generaly used could not saturate the nitrogenase of the soil. Hence the CH-CH assay data should be compared among those abtained through the same technique.
20112498|While we all recognize the presence of several resources in a given ecosystem, the organization of our analytical techniques and indeed the whole of our industrial society on a disciplinary basis leads to single-minded exploitation. The high costs of this approach to resource analysis lead to profound ecological disruption, while their distribution can lead to unanticipated social tension. An alternative approach which employs interdisciplinary synthesis to identify production alternatives, quantify the social and ecological costs of these alternatives, and identify appropriate economic control mechanisms is proposed.
20112575|This paper is an introduction to the colloquium session 2 (The Role of Soil Organisms in Nutrient Cycling). Conceptual reidentification of the "role" of soil invertebrates in the context of ecosystem mineral cycling and nutrition is posed. The importance of heterotroph decomposers is examined in terrestrial ecosystems and the value of metabolic indices in measuring heterotrophic activity is reviewed. In summary, this paper identifies key problems and scientific challenges in this disciplinary area, and introduces the topical issues addressed in the following contributed papers.
20112763|The Swedish IBP/PT Tundra Biome Project (1970-1974) formed part of an international ecological effort that involved 11 countries and aimed at obtaining basic information on the productivity of the tundra areas of the world. The project was designed according to a joint research programme for studying the structure and function of tundra ecosystems. It was carried out on a subarctic ombrotrophic mire on permafrost at Stordalen near Abisko, northern Sweden (6821'N; 1905'E). The investigations were interdisciplinary, and researchers from all the Swedish universities and the Swedish colleges of forestry and agriculture took part. Destructive sampling in the site was carried out according to a statistical two-stage sampling plan with four 50  50 m blocks, each containing twenty-five 5  5 m squares. A fifth block constituted the sampling area for climatic and other abiotic variables.
20113140|A process-based forest growth model, BIOMASS, is applied to stands of four pine species (Pinus elliottii, P. radiata, P. resinosa, and P. sylvestris) growing in five sub-tropical, temperate and boreal environments (in Australia, New Zealand, Florida, Sweden and Wisconsin). Measured annual aboveground net primary production (ANPP) at these sites ranges from 0.2 to 1.6 kg C
20112499|This paper deals with the currently most important ways of land use, especially in northern Scandinavia. The northern forest zone comprises the widest areas of wilderness in Europe -- although perpetually diminishing; it is sparsely populated and industrialized only to a small extent. Nevertheless, this zone is threatened by tourism and growing forest management. In addition to the moveable northern border of forest, a far wider area of forest situated in difficult climatic conditions is endangered. In the northern parts of the coniferous forest zone there is a belt, ranging several hundreds of kilometers from south to north, where the production and regeneration of forest are weak and uncertain, and the forest floor vegetation is tundra-like. Many mistakes have been made in both forest use, silviculture and regeneration. When the normal ecological stress is great, grave new problems may arise owing to for instance, air pollution. Ecological research should create new methods for the planning of land use and for constant monitoring of the environment.
20112946|The phytoplankton community in the acid Lake Grdsjn was composed mainly of chrysophyceans and dinophyceans. Bitrichia chodatii, Dinobryon spp, Peridinium incomspiciumm and Gymnodinium spp were the most abundant species. The total phytoplankton biomass ranged from 10 g
20112608|Fluorescent antibody techniques were applied to the study of Nitrobacter diversity, multiplication and strain competition in soil and in pure culture. In soils, Nitrobacter population levels averaged 10-10
20112844|Dated sediment cores record, with varying degrees of time lag, the recent (1946-1976) history of natural and industrial inputs of Hg and other metals into the Saguenay Fjord, Quebec. This is illustrated in a dated core from an oxic basin near the head of the fjord. The core was analyzed at 1 cm intervals for Hg, Zn, Pb, Cu, Co, Ni, Cr, V, Cd, organic carbon
20113182|This review of research on nutrient circulation performed in the Tornetrsk area, N Sweden, showed that the living phytomass in various ecosystem types there contained between 5 and 30% of the ecosystem pools of biologically fixed N and P. From 4% to a maximum of 14% of the ecosystem N was in leaves and fine root biomass, i.e. in plant tissues with turnover times &lt 10 yr. Atmospheric nutrient deposition and nitrogen fixation were important sources of nutrients to annual primary productivity in mires, but were probably relatively unimportant in other ecosystem types. Vascular plants received more than half of their annual requirement of N and P, i.e. the most growth limiting elements, from stored reserves in overwintering organs. The remaining part could be accounted for by uptake of nutrients released by leaching and mineralization of litter and soil organic matter. The mineralization rate of N and P was low and the soil microbes immobilized nutrients efficiently. About 6% of the total soil N and 35% of the soil pool of P was in the soil microbial biomass. This implies that changes in population sizes of soil microbes could be important for the supply of plant available, inorganic nutrients. Recent observations of large differences in
20112910|The amount of metal taken up by Achillea millefolium and Hordeum vulgare through leaves and roots was studied by growing the plants in six different soils, one of which was artificially enriched with Cd, Cu, Ni, and Pb at five different concentrations. Plants were grown in pots placed at five sites with varying aerial deposition of heavy metals. For Cu and Pb there was a significant correlation between the concentrations in plants and the rate of aerial deposition, while metal concentrations in plants and soils were unrelated. Nickel and Cd concentrations in plants were correlated with the rate of aerial deposition and soil concentrations. It was therefore concluded that A. millefolium and H. vulgare can be used to monitor aerial deposition of Cu and Pb, but their use to monitor Ni and Cd requires that chemical properties of the soil are constant throughout the monitored area.
20113310|Sustainable forest management goals include the conservation of biological diversity and its constituent elements. Dying and dead trees, in particular, have been recognised as being of prime importance as resource and habitat for numerous animal and plant species. Nevertheless, few quantitative target values have been defined for dead wood management purposes, and they often lack well-founded scientific bases. In this study we developed such quantitative targets for standing dying and dead trees (defined as snags), based on the habitat requirements of the three-toed woodpecker Picoides tridactylus, a keystone species whose presence is considered an indicator of the properties of naturally dynamic forests. First we developed a theoretical model based on energy requirements and with predictions for woodpecker breeding probabilities as a function of available snag quantities. Then an empirical field study was conducted in Switzerland with the aim of verifying the model predictions. For this purpose, 12 pairs of sites of 1 km in size and comprising one site with and one without a breeding woodpecker, were sampled for snags. We compared these sites using logistic regression. Finally, the comparison of the theoretical model with the field approach enabled the derivation of quantitative snag targets for spruce forests. Both our theoretical model and the logistic regression analyses resulted in similar snag quantities for predicted woodpecker occurrence. For management purposes, we recommend the observation of the precautionary principle by striving for target values of 1.6 m
20112765|Since hydrological and meteorological events are the results of processes with stochastic components, the climatic representativeness of a particular investigation period must be interpreted in a probabilistic sense. At Stordalen the Tundra Biome study is favoured by having a research station nearby, where long-term records are available. These complete series, extending over more than 30 years, form the calculation base. The results obtained are relationships between precipitation depths and air temperature averages and the probability of occurrence of these events. Diagrams of these relationships offer graphically derived estimates of the representativeness of the growing season measurements. The conclusions drawn were that the project period surprisingly well covered the range from "dry" to "wet" years, and from "cold" to "warm" seasons, respectively.
20113252|Population dynamics of Gentianella campestris was studied in a management experiment, involving three levels of grazing intensity and two levels of microsite moisture. The data were evaluated by using matrix population models in order to estimate probability of extinction under various combinations of grazing and moisture. The results showed that population viability of the species was strongly affected by the interaction effects of management and microsite. On dry sites extinction risk decreased with decreasing grazing intensity, while on mesic sites medium grazing intensity showed the lowest probability of extinction. In addition, some other factors are discussed, which may also interact with grazing intensity to affect population viability. These factors are: timing of grazing, population size, environmental stochasticity, geographic location, and flowering phenology. The results are discussed in terms of how they can be used to optimise grassland management based on knowledge of population dynamics of grassland plants.
20112726|Investigations of chromosome aberrations induced by phenoxyacetic acids in animals are inconclusive. Dominant lethal tests with 2,4,5-T and MCPA in mice were negative. Micronucleus tests with 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D were likewise negative and it could be shown that less than 5 per cent of the test substances present in the plasma penetrates the bone marrow cells. The induction of chromosome aberrations with 2,4,5-T butylester and acid has however been reported from cytological investigations on rats and Mongolian gerbils. In cytological studies of oogenesis in Drosophila various chromosomal disturbances were recorded after treatment with a 2,4,5-T butylester formulation. However, no chromosome aberrations were indicated in genetic analyses after treatment of male Drosophila with the same preparate. An increase of recessive lethals has been reported in Drosophila after treatment with high doses of 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D.
20112802|The two intensive research sites of the Swedish Coniferous Forest Project (SWECON) are described. The main sites, a lichen Scots pine heath on sand (Ivantjrnsheden), and a mixed mature stand of Scots pine and Norway spruce on till (Nickobacken) within Siljansfors Experimental Forest, are both situated in Central Sweden near latitude 6050N. Ivantjrnsheden is located just north of the border between the Boreal zone or taiga of Northern Sweden and the Boreo-nemoral zone of Southern Sweden. The basically climatic transition is narrow due to topography and geology. It contains both northern and southern plant and animal species. The research area is a level sedimentary sandy plain at 185 m above mean sea level (M.S.L.). Mean annual air temperature is 3.8C and mean annual precipitation ca. 600 mm. The vegetation belongs to the Cladonio-Pinetum (boreale) K-L 1967 association or the lichen to lichen-dwarf-shrub forest type growing on an ordinary iron podzol. The research plots represent an age-series of pine forest stands from a clear-felled area to a 120-year-old stand. Siljansfors Experimental Forest has a slightly more continental temperature climate but is distinctly more humid. The forest is situated in a strongly undulating till area with altitudes between 210 m and 425 m above M.S.L. Mean annual air temperature is 3.6C and annual precipitation ca. 700 mm. On the bouldery, sloping research plot the plant community belongs to a mesic to moist dwarf-shrub forest type with mosses and Vaccinium myrtillus on the ground and a tree stand comprising ca. 150-year-old pines and ca. 100-year-old spruces. The nearby Gusseltjrn drainage area is used for hydrological studies.
20112817|Nematodes associated with plant roots were studied in a 15-20 year old stand of Scots pine. Eight-nine genera of root/fungal feeding nematodes were found. A Geocenamus-species was considered as the only obligate root feeder, while fungal feeding was observed in some other species. The kind of field layer vegetation influenced the distribution of the nematodes. The root/fungal feeders amounted to
20113129|Canopy structure in relation to pine forest productivity is analysed in terms of how structure affects the fraction of available light that is captured, and the efficiency with which the intercepted light is converted into structural dry matter. Structural properties associated with efficient light interception and/or high productivity are identified based on theoretical considerations and empirical findings. Characteristics considered include shoot structure, crown shape, leaf area index and the spatial distribution of leaf area in the crown. Differences in crown structure between species are discussed based on how they affect these characteristics. The light use efficiency of different pine species is compared. Empirical data concern mainly Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris), Monterey pine (P. radiata), slash pine (P. elliottii var. elliottii) and loblolly pine (P. taeda).
20113239|In the Abisko basin south of lake Tornetrsk (N Sweden, 68N, 350-420 m a.s.l.) some of the most northern Swedish populations of Pinus sylvestris are found. Casual observations suggested that recruitment and growth of trees at this treeline are affected by browsing and fungal attack. Here we attempt to answer whether and how much such disturbances determine the fate of this outpost forest as compared to climatic influences. In the summer 1996 we collected information on the size structure and several measures of performance (growth form, reproduction, fraction of green crown, fungal infestation, browsing damage) of 1331 living trees over an area of ca 20 000 m. In a smaller sample of trees with stem diameter 5 cm below branches (n = 217) age-structure was determined based on a coring survey during the following year. The current population is dominated by small trees, with 70% of all trees having a stem diameter of &lt4 cm. Only few trees are older than 200 yr. However, the majority of small and medium sized trees is stunted and multi-stemmed as a result of browsing. Browsing damage is severe in trees up to ca 15 cm stem diameter and 3 m height, but hardly any damage was found in trees shorter than ca 40 cm, i.e. the mean depth of late winter snow cover. From this it seems, browsing is confined to winter and is primarily caused by moose. Continuous suppression of tree crowns to below winter snow height exposes trees to heavy fungal infection (snow blight). The combined effect of browsing and pathogen damage is the most likely cause of a dramatic decline in frequency of medium sized trees. We found no evidence that climatic conditions restricted forest regeneration during the past 60-70 yr in this area. The age structure of the tree population indicates increased recruitment during the first decades of the 20 century, corresponding with warmer regional climate. Our results suggest that browsing by moose may be the single most important cause for the bad shape of this forest today. A significant reduction of the moose population will probably permit recovery of pines in this area.
20112699|A variety of non-leguminous plants (primarily grasses) in Oregon were surveyed under laboratory conditions for rates of N-fixation by associative systems. Appreciable N-fixation was found in the root environments of certain grasses and herbs growing in wet soils. Activity in well aerated soils was generally extremely low. N-fixing bacteria were isolated from some of the root systems that showed the highest rates of acetylene reduction. A series of experiments was conducted in an attempt to establish N-fixing strains of Spirillum lipoferum in the root environment of maize. Preincubation of excised maize roots did not give reliable indications of acetylene reduction rates in situ or of the capability of maize to grow in a low-nitrogen soil inoculated with S. lipoferum.
20112501|Preliminary studies conducted in Finland show that: -- our forests and peatlands represent a great potential source of food for human consumption (berries and mushrooms) -- only a minute proportion of the total yield is harvested for export and the home market -- forest improvement methods commonly used on peatlands do not increase berry yields as much as tree growth and mushroom production. Especially Vaccinium oxycoccos seems to suffer from low groundwater levels caused by ditching -- fertilization increases mushroom production as well as yields of Vaccinium myrtillus and V. vitisidaea -- ploughing of mineral soils increases the yield of Gyromitra esculenta -- clear-cutting has a detrimental effect on many forest byproducts favoured by moist or sheltered conditions -- more research work must be carried out on forest ecosystems to ascertain which improvement and silvicultural methods continually give the highest level of total production (timber and by-products).
20113107|Studies of the emission of volatile organic compounds from 17 species of plants, characteristic of the boreal forest are presented. Isoprene and terpene emissions were measured from both coniferous and deciduous plants. The estimated regional emissions of terpenes were calculated by using the measured emission rates and correcting for temperature dependence of emissions. The terpene emissions from coniferous forests of the northern and middle taiga zones of the European portion of the USSR were estimated to be 1.0 to 3.5 Tg 
20112674|Nitrogen fixed by blue-green algae is available for utilisation by other organisms in two forms: intracellular and extracellular.
20113247|As wildlife populations become smaller, the number of interacting stochastic processes which can destabilize the populations increases: genetic effects (inbreeding and loss of adaptability) and instability of the breeding structure (sex ratio imbalances, unstable age distribution, and disrupted social systems) can decrease population growth and stability. Recent analyses have shown that some populations can be very sensitive to these stochastic processes, at larger population sizes than had been suggested previously, and often in unexpected ways. Interactions among processes can reduce population viability much more so than would be assumed from consideration of isolated factors. For example, in monogamous species, random fluctuations in sex ratio will depress the mean number of breeding pairs in populations with as many as 500 adults. At low population densities, individuals may not be able to find mates, or may not encounter individuals sufficiently unrelated to be accepted as suitable mates. Inbreeding depression of demographic rates can become a significant contributor to population decline in populations with several hundred individuals, even if genetic problems are not the primary threat. Most models of genetic decay in small and fragmented populations assume demographic stability. However, when the increases in demographic fluctuations of small populations are considered, rates of loss of genetic variation and accumulation of inbreeding can be much faster than has been suggested before. These processes can be examined in detailed, individual-based PVA models. Accurate data to parameterize these models, however, are often not available. Thus, we need to interpret cautiously PVA conclusions for populations that are small, highly fragmented, or projected for many generations.
20113111|Gaseous N-losses were measured by three independent methods from a fertilized wheat field within an experimental water shed. They varied from 12 to 24 kg N
20113106|Because of their high stored soil carbon contents, high-latitude soils are expected to play an important role as a source of the radiatively active gases CH and CO under the warmer dryer conditions projected by climate models. Estimates of the present day CH source strength of tundra are uncertain due to a lack of data and coverage, but several independent estimates seem to be converging on a source strength of c. 35 Tg
20113214|One of the most important factors causing a decline in biodiversity is the deterministic changes due to habitat loss. However, the effects are non-linearly related to loss of habitat. To start with, loss of biodiversity is probably very low, while after some threshold in the proportion of original habitat the decline can be very rapid. Effects of habitat fragmentation may be additional to pure habitat loss in landscapes with low proportions of original habitat. Species number has been used a lot in studies of habitat fragmentation. However, species number is only one of several descriptors of a community, others are for example, abudance distributions and nested-subset structure. Risk-prone species and potential indicator species can be identified by using a combination of nestedness and species number. A higher order of biodiversity than species number is ecosystem diversity, which means that predators and prey or competitors coexist. Preserving ecosystem diversity often requires larger areas than just species preservation. There are several evidences for thresholds in the proportion of suitable habitat in the landscape that are important for changes in biodiversity. From a conservation point of view, it is very important to find these potential thresholds, because if one can be above these thresholds one has a good potential to preserve the original biodiversity. Thus, from a conservation point of view there should be certain proportions of different habitat types in the landscape, which needs plans on landscape levels.
20112592|To pursue studies of rhizosphere saprophagic organism interactions, we developed a microcosm of soil microflora-microfauna to test the hypothesis that mineralization of N (as
20113249|A review of population viability analyses (PVAs) for plants shows that studies are usually of short-duration and consider few populations and species, limiting their applicability in conservation. Some aspects of plant life history require extensive data or special approaches in modeling PVAs. Plant dormancy, seed dormancy, periodic recruitment and flowering, and clonal growth require additional data, experiments, or alternative modeling approaches. PVAs have been applied to conservation issues such as the effects of grazing, pollinator limitation of exotics, and minimum viable population sizes. Models incorporating disturbance, which can often be manipulated by land managers, can be used to pinpoint disturbance regimes that increase population viability. These approaches have been applied to trampling, grazing, fire, and sod-cutting disturbances using a variety of approaches. Metapopulation modeling, including the use of incidence function models, and other kinds of spatially explicit modeling can suggest appropriate management tactics, but have been little-used for plants. The most realistic and conservative uses of PVA for plants involve comparative analyses of various management regimes without misleadingly precise projections of exact outcomes. Continued feedback between management and PVAs will benefit both endeavors.
20113135|Leaf area index (LAI) of forest ecosystems determines rates of energy and material exchange between plant canopies and the atmosphere. Considerable variation exists in the value and timing of maximum LAI in pine stands. Maximum LAI (total) varied from 5 to 30 across a range of species and environments and this was reached 8 to 50 yrs after stand establishment. The variation in maximum LAI was related to multiple factors including site quality (climate and soils) and shade tolerance. Timing differences appear to be related to growth rates and stocking/stand density relationships. Rapid growth rates, well stocked stands, and warm climates result in the earliest canopy closure. Nitrogen most commonly limits LAI, although water can limit LAI in arid environments. Other nutrients may also limit LAI but have been less extensively studied. Seasonal dynamics vary considerably among pines and this is due to species dependent differences in foliar longevity. Species with relatively few foliage age classes are the most dynamic seasonally and are most responsive to environmental fluctuations. Among several pine species, vertical LAI distribution in closed canopies follows a normal distribution.
20113105|Dynamic observations were carried out on arable grey forest soil under barley. Fifteen parameters were determined continuously for 44 days: gas composition of soil air with membrane probes, plant photosynthetic activity and dark respiration separately for soil and plants by the chamber method, microbial biomass by kinetic method, number of protozoa by direct microscopy, standing crop of the above- and belowground phytomasses, content of soluble organic matter in soil, moisture and temperature of soil, insolation and precipitation. All dynamic variables, which are related to gas exchange and microbial activity, were found to oscillate with the period of 2-5 days. This feature of dynamic pattern was reproduced in laboratory soil-plant microcosm. Statistical analysis of time-series and deterministic mathematical model were used to explain the observed dynamics. Both approaches allowed to hypothesize that dynamic pattern of gas exchange was controlled by some components of sun radiation via plant photosynthetic activity.
20112607|Previous studies on populations dynamics of M. anomala, and some elements of their energy budget, have made possible the elaboration of a model. Its rules of functioning have been written in CSMP language and its simulation done with a computer. Laboratory experiments have shown relations between growth rates and soil consumption and the individual weight and environment conditions. The statistical analysis of sampling data allows one to relate birth rate and mortality to population structure and environmental conditions. These relations have been used in this work. The model is able to predict the evolution of population structure if one knows the initial state and environment conditions. It also calculates the production and soil consumption. Adjustment of predicted values to observed results is discussed in the text.
20112945|The acidified Lake Grdsjn was intensively studied for four years. This paper presents aims and strategies of the biological part of the study.
20113146|The present deposition of sulphur and nitrogen in Sweden is described from the aspect of spatial and temporal variations, based mainly on data from national, regional and local environmental monitoring programmes but also on model calculations. Monitoring data are available to provide nationwide patterns for wet deposition and air quality of sulphur and nitrogen compounds, and also to provide data on deposition on an ecosystem scale as a base for effect assessments. Monitoring data are lacking for dry deposition, except for net throughfall of sulphur. Development of a national model, as a complement to the environmental monitoring programme, will need validation data for dry deposition, especially for nitrogen. Large variations in deposition are apparent, attributable to the gradient from south and southwest to the north, with the largest deposition in the south and on the Swedish west coast. The gradient is caused by the influence of European emissions, in combination with the differences caused by local variations in land use and local pollution. The long-term variations observed in pollution loads are mainly caused by emission changes but to some extent also by weather variations. The sulphur deposition has clearly decreased in the last decade, in terms of wet deposition, throughfall deposition and the occurrence of gaseous as well as particulate sulphur compounds in the atmosphere, with considerable decreases mainly in the last six years. There are up to 40-50% lower amounts than in 1980 in large parts of the country, because of decreases in European sulphur emissions. The decrease indicated by the model agrees with the measured decrease. For nitrogen deposition no trends are apparent. The emissions of nitrogen oxides over Europe are also fairly constant. Comparisons are made between models and measurement data. A good agreement is seen from many aspects, such as the large scale gradients over Sweden and the deposition trends. The differences between models and measurements in their ability to describe the spatial variations in particular, are also indicated. The gap in our knowledge about nitrogen deposition is pointed out. Prognoses for the future sulphur deposition are made based on the new sulphur protocol. Further decreases in sulphur deposition are expected. However, in the most sensitive ecosystems in many parts of Sweden the reductions planned up to 2010 will not be sufficient to get down to or below the critical loads.
20112883|Solid forms of ions are generally considered to be unavailable to biota, but analytical techniques are often incapable of distinguishing between solid and dissolved forms of ions. We have found chemical equilibrium models to be useful in assessing the tendency of phosphorus to form solids (apatite) in algal growth medium. The predictions of the models were tested in abiotic media to determine the kinetics of solid formation. Based on the kinetic analyses we hypothesized that solid phosphate would form in the medium and affect algal population yield. Solids did form (though not apatite) and their formation was closely associated with decreased algal production, even though the cells were capable of sorbing the solid that formed. These results suggest that some solids are more readily available to biota than others and also demonstrate the utility of thermodynamic equilibrium models in the design and analysis of experiments, though we suggest their use be tempered with an analysis of kinetics.
20113114|Events over the last ten to fifteen years have shown that both natural fires and those associated with human activities constitute a primary disturbance of the vegetation cover, and act as major determinants of atmospheric chemistry. Despite some limitations, satellite remote sensing can provide much information about the parameters required to analyse the complex mechanisms and interactions linking vegetation cover, fire, atmospheric chemistry and climate. This paper reviews the current status of research utilizing remotely sensed data for studying fire and its effects on ecosystems and the role of resulting gas and particulate emissions in biogeochemical cycles.
20112831|A simulation model for the carbon dioxide and water exchange of Scots pine has been developed. The carbon dioxide exchange pertains only to the foliage. Two model versions are described: one complex model called FAST-P (physiological) and one simplified model, called FAST-S (simple), which is derived from FAST-P. FAST-P has a high resolution in both time and structure, whereas FAST-S has a lower resolution, appropriate to growth models. FAST-S uses daily mean values for driving variables, and provides analytical expressions for the daily carbon dioxide and water exchange. A short description of structures and functions of the two FAST models is given, together with comparisons between simulations and measured field data, as well as comparisons between the models. The main outputs from the FAST models are the amounts of carbon fixed and water transpired.
20112610|Each species is characterised by the mean distance of an individual to its nearest neighbour belonging to the other species and, on the other hand, by the mean distance of random points to their nearest neighbour. These parameters were investigated by simulating different models of spatial distribution in two and three dimensions. The new index has been applied to the study of interspecific relationships of soil organisms (Acari:Oribatei).
20112803|Within the Swedish Coniferous Forest Project the software development has been concentrated upon (1) automatic data collection, (2) storage, retrieval and analysis of data, and (3) simulation. A minicomputer controls and reads several hundreds of measurement instruments in the field station at Jdras. Storage, retrieval and analysis of data are made at the computer centre in Uppsala. Simulation models can easily use automatically collected data as an input. The programs are often interactive and commonly use graphic display.
20112858|A method for determining the flux of various compounds over the sediment-water interface was described. Benthic activity in oxidized sediment cores was preserved for long periods by continuously replacing the overlying water with aerated water. The O-concentration inside the stoppered tubes was dependent on the flow rate of water and of O-consumption by the sediment. Chemical analyses were made on in- and outflowing water and the flux over the interface was calculated for each compound analysed. Fluxes of nitrogen components were determined at different oxygen concentrations in the water-phase. In situ gradients indicated that
20112675|In clay-containing arid soils the major nitrogen input is by N-fixing blue-green algae of cryptogamic crusts. Nitrification and denitrification takes place in the crust microenvironment and the carbon supplied by the photosynthetic activities of the crust serves as the apparent energy source for the denitrification. Only a minor fraction of the N fixed may enter the soil for a further use by plants. N fixation is dependent on the available seasonal moisture and regulated by the presence of ammonium and allelochemics in soil.
20112573|Changes in species composition, biomass and incidence of various groups of species as well as the rate of carbon evolution by an oribatid mite community were analyzed in a meadow ecosystem heavily fertilized with mineral nutrients.
20112909|Myriophyllum spicatum L. was cultured in synthetic nutrient solutions having a range of chromium concentration from 50 g
20112794|In general, for registration of pesticides of biological origin, criteria analogous to those required for chemical pesticides, concerning efficacy against depredators and possible effects on the environment, should be taken into account. However, for this aspect, of which the most important and the most costly element is the toxicological data, the specificity of action, wich is often narrow, of the biological control agent constitutes a guarantee that it is innoxious for vertebrates as well as invertebrates and plants. Therefore, with the exception of entomopathogenic germs, which because of their nature have to be submitted to some of the tests required for chemical substances, biological control agents should mainly be checked for identity, purity and absence of contaminants. This specificity allows less stringent tests for toxicity, residues and environmental risks than in the case of chemical pesticides. These advantages are counterbalanced by the limitation of each biological control agent to one species or at best to a small number of species. The market for each such agent is thus much more restricted than for a chemical substance.
20113210|During the last 50 yr the Scandinavian landscape has been considerably altered because of changes from traditional agricultural practices to modern and efficient techniques. This change has resulted in large areas of monocultures (e.g., cereals, oil seed) but also abandonment of areas which earlier were used for grazing or hay production. Following this development, common problems for a sustainable biological diversity of agricultural land are habitat disappearance, decrease in habitat quality, influences on dispersal and interspecific interactions and increased importance of stochastic events. The five case studies presented in this paper focus on the effects of modern agriculture on animal and plant populations: 1) Species richness and diversity of carabid beetles were highest along edges between agricultural fields and woodland, and on habitat islands; 2) Bird species number, in relation to abundance, was higher on small than large forest-like habitat islands, due to edge conditions or habitat variability on the small islands; 3) Predation on blackbird nests was higher on small woodland islands than on larger ones, and this was particularly related to young and subordinate breeding blackbirds being forced to choose smaller islands as nesting sites; 4) Traditional agricultural environments supported a richer pollinator fauna than isolated habitat islands in an efficiently utilized agricultural landscape, and as a result of poor pollination seed set was also lower in the latter environment; 5) Grazing is an important factor in the pollination of the rare herb Senecio integrifolius. Even though seed set was positively correlated with population size, grazing may be detrimental to seed production or favourable to seed germination. Generalizing, species in boreal agricultural land are either derived from steppe environments with present source areas within this farmland or from the boreal forests and then often with sink populations within the farmland.
20112933|The subfossil bottom sediment of Lake Grdsjn, an acidified lake in SW Sweden, was examined to see what faunal changes had taken place in connection with acidification. The development of the chironomid population was traced by studying the stratification of larval head capsules in the sediment. Around 1960 the pH-value of the lake started to drop significantly. Head capsule analysis showed that this coincided with an increased abundance of Sergentia, Psectrocladius and Protanypus, while no head capsules at all of Dicrotendipes and Microtendipes were found after 1960. This development was not wholly reflected in the recent chironomid composition in the lake, as Dicrotendipes together with Chironomus anthracinus were the most abundant recent chironomids. However, as a whole the results agree with those obtained in other studies of the benthos of acidified lakes. Probable causes for the changes of the chironomid fauna are discussed.
20112525|The major portion of the global nitrogen cycle occurs between vegetation and soil, only minor exchanges generally taking place with the atmosphere and the hydrosphere. Nitrogen conversions in soil are briefly reviewed and a global flow chart for soil nitrogen is presented. The turnover times of nitrogen in various components of this global system are compared with its turnover times in some selected ecosystems. It is shown that 95% of the nitrogen flow in the global terrestrial system is restricted to the plant-microorganism-soil system; only 5% of the total flow is concerned with exchanges to and from the atmosphere and the hydrosphere.
20112815|The seasonal changes in growth and starch content in fine roots of young Scots pines (Pinus sylvestris L.) were studied. The investigation was carried out both on irrigated and fertilized (IF) plots as well as on control (0) plots. The temporal variation in the fine-root amounts was estimated in ingrowth cores removed at regular intervals during the growing season. Starch analyses were carried out on the different diameter fractions of the tree roots. The fine-root fraction &lt 1 mm was significantly longer and thinner in IF-plots than in 0-plots, while there was no significant difference in weight. Both the length and weight of the diameter fraction 1-2 mm was significantly larger in the IF-plots. The number of root tips was, furthermore, larger per unit area in IF-plots than in 0-plots, although the number of root tips per unit length was larger in the 0-plots. The starch content of the fine roots increased during spring and early summer. The starch reserves were mobilized at the time of shoot elongation. The decrease in starch content tended to be more rapid in roots from the IF-plots. The starch content of the roots increased during autumn to approximately the same level as that observed in early spring. The results are discussed in relation to the growth and the carbohydrate dynamics of the whole tree.
20113305|To access Sweden's wood resources during the past 150 yr, waterways for timber log driving were prepared and the networks of railroads and roads were developed. We related this human footprint to today's amount of dead wood and protected natural forest remnants. The accumulated transport infrastructure over time was used as a surrogate measurement of past harvesting intensity in 25  25 km grid cells within two study areas in northern boreal forest (Norrbotten and Vsterbotten) and one area in southern boreal and hemiboreal forest (central Sweden). The accessibility of the landscape was estimated as the length per grid cell of roads in northern Sweden and railroads in central Sweden, calculated at 50-yr intervals since 1850. Because terrain ruggedness affected the development of log driving on waterways in a given area, we used a 50  50 m digital elevation model to calculate the mean slope within grid cells as an estimate of inaccessibility. We found negative relationships between the amount of dead wood and transport infrastructure (accessibility) in all three study areas. The proportions of variation in dead wood explained by the indices of accessibility and inaccessibility in Norrbotten and Vsterbotten were 18 and 28%, respectively. For central Sweden, the total amount of variation explained was only 9%. The average amount of dead wood was lower in central Sweden (2.1 m
20112581|Faecal pellets of the millipede Glomeris marginata (Villers), covered with hyaline hyphae were used to study the effect of grazing by the springtail Onychiurus quadriocellatus Gisin. Respiration was measured -- in a Gilson respirometer -- in batches of 10 three-day-old pellets and in similar batches in which the superficial hyphae were grazed by 30 springtails just before the respiration was measured. Two other series were set up with two-week-old and two-month-old grown pellets. In all series the respiration appeared higher after grazing than without grazing (average difference 49%). Part of this increase may be attributed to springtail excreta. Seven days after the measurements the hyphal mat on the three-day-old pellets was much denser on those which were grazed before the measurements than on those which were not grazed. In the older pellets the mycelium had recovered rather completely after seven days. In a long-term experiment batches of 10 pellets were each grazed by one springtail. During three months the respiration was measured monthly. Corrected for the springtail respiration the respiration in the pellets with one springtail was 10% higher than in the blank without Onychiurus. In the blank series the hyphal density increased continuously. After three months 42% of the pellets were densely grown with hyphae, 38% moderately and only 16% slightly. In the series with one springtail, only 18% were densely or moderately grown, 32% were slightly grown and 50% ungrown. It is concluded that grazing by Onychiurus quadriocellatus with a density of one individual per 10 Glomeris pellets reduces the hyphal density on the pellets considerably but stimulates fungal growth and respiration, and thus fungal activity.
20112513|The effects of various forest-management practices on the water quality of streams and lakes are presented, as well as possible responses by various aquatic forms of life. The most important effects are: increased runoff and particulate transport (clear-felling, drainage), increased water temperature (clear-felling), increased nitrification and nitrogen leaching (clear-felling, forest fertilization), increased phosphorus leaching (clear-felling, bog fertilization) and a lowered pH (clear-felling, drainage, forest fertilization, exclusive favorization of conifers).
20113336|Suserup Skov (19.2 ha) is an old growth temperate forest dominated by beech Fagus sylvatica, pedunculate oak Quercus robur, ash Fraxinus excelsior, wych elm Ulmus glabra, and black alder Alnus glutinosa, admixed with lime Tilia platyphyllos and sycamore maple Acer pseudoplatanus. In 1992, a complete inventory of trees exceeding 3 cm in diameter at breast height (DBH, 1.3 m above forest floor) was carried out, as a starting point to study the long-term dynamics of the forest. In 2002 a first re-inventory was carried out including all trees  29 cm DBH in the whole forest, while trees with DBH &gt 3 cm were remeasured in three 1 ha plots. Based on the new inventory changes in the forest structure are analyzed and discussed in relation to ecological stability and forest management. A stem-position map based on the 2002 data was made to present an overview of the changes since 1992 and also as a practical tool for future research. The following conclusions were reached from the analysis of the results of the 1992 and 2002 inventories. 1) Between 1992 and 2002 Suserup Skov has been impacted by two important disturbances: an extreme storm and the Dutch elm disease. As an ecological system, the forest has proved relatively resistant. Although some changes have occurred in the diameter distribution, the forest ecosystem has not been pushed back into an early successional stage and no decline in the standing volume occurred. 2) The forest is still undergoing changes resulting from the cessation of livestock grazing around 1807 and the subsequent gradual cessation of management. Oak is retreating from the stand, while beech is losing some terrain to ash, lime and sycamore maple after a period of extensive dominance. On the wetter ground at the lake-shore, alder is still dominant, but ash is increasing. 3) The ecological disturbance caused by the 1999-storm has interacted with and speeded up the ongoing gradual long-term successional changes predicted in 1992. A fair number of large beech trees were blown over in the storm, whilst trees in smaller diameter classes were less affected and have shown vigorous growth. Especially sycamore maple, lime and (to some degree) ash have increased in importance, being capable of filling many of the gaps created where mature beeches have fallen.
20113321|The Baltic Forest Mapping project (BFM) aimed at identifying high conservation value forest (HCVF) areas for the maintenance of forest biodiversity in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Computerised searches of potential HCVFs were carried out using primarily the national forestry stand level databases on tree species composition and average stand age. Ecologically based selection criteria were elaborated and adapted to the particularities of each forest vegetation type and country. In Estonia and Lithuania the most common (ca 50%) of BFM-selected potential HCVF stands were of gap dynamics types, primarily wet deciduous and nemoral. In Latvia most BFM-selected stands (40% of total) were pine and oak-pine forests. The most common BFM selection criteria fulfilled were for structural diversity with regard to either advanced tree age or tree species, which together totalled ca 75% of all BFM-selected sites in Estonia, ca 60% in Latvia, and ca 80% in Lithuania. On average 17% of the forests (Estonia 15%, Latvia 10% and Lithuania 32%) met at least one criteria of the BFM. The vast majority of BFM-selected stands were located outside currently protected areas. In Latvia, only 8% of BFM stands were given some degree of protection, while many forests within the existing forest protected area network did not meet BFM criteria. In Lithuania, as in Latvia, &lt 1% of BFM stands were strictly protected. High conservation value forests are disappearing rapidly. In Estonia, where logging rates could be estimated, BFM-selected stands were being logged at the rate of &gt 4%
20113299|With rare exception the roles of indigenous peoples in maintaining the ecological diversity of forest ecosystems have received little serious attention in either scholarly research or the current discourse on biodiversity. This paper examines the traditional roles of Canada's First Nations peoples in maintaining boreal forest biodiversity. It is argued that, notwithstanding that Native Americans were not conservationists (in the normative use of the term), the traditional land use activities of Canada's boreal forest-dependent First Nations once served to create and sustain biodiversity. The ability to maintain these practices and the relationship of Aboriginal peoples with their lands is critical to understanding and sustaining boreal forest biodiversity. In this sense, the integrity of a First Nation's traditional uses, or ecological footprint, may be an excellent "umbrella" indicator of boreal forest biodiversity. Setting aside large tracts of the boreal forest where Canada's Aboriginal peoples can sustain their traditional ecological footprint and exercise their constitutionally protected rights makes sense scientifically (i.e., ecologically), but also morally, ethically, and legally.
20112846|Stream water biogeochemistry is a complex interplay of a number of processes of conversion and transport. Gross parameters of mass transport, heterotrophic potential and depletion factors for in-stream organic substances are useful in an overall sense, but detailed knowledge of the mechanisms of some of the major processes is required. Thus, in the case of microbial uptake and mineralization, it is important to know the relative importance of the effects of sedimentary and river-bed biofilms. An expression is developed that describes the relative activities of the suspended sediments with that of the riverbed biofilms in overall stream biogeochemical processes. That expression takes the general form of an activity ratio,
20113209|The main ecological features of the forests in the nemoral-boreal transition zone in Europe are reviewed. The transition in time from a species rich forest dominated by deciduous trees to one with few species dominated by conifers is usually attributed to a changed climate. However, I argue that the available data indicates that man, and his domesticated browsing animals, are the main causes of this change. It has had profound consequences for animal and plant assemblages, especially species dependent on deciduous trees, old trees and big dead trees. A cooler microclimate due to spruce dominance and denser forests is also important. Combined population densities and species richness of birds are higher in mixed deciduous/coniferous forests than in both pure deciduous and coniferous forests. Causes for this are discussed. Species richness of beetles in hemiboreal forests is as high as in nemoral, but higher than in boreal forests. Forest management should aim at simulating natural disturbances to maintain species richness.
20112511|One of the serious problems facing the forest industry in coming decades will be the supply of wood as raw material. One method of solving the problem would be to use the tree more effectively. At present, only 65% of the total biomass of the tree is harvested; 20% of the biomass consists of branches including needles and bark, and 15% of stumps and roots. Major interdisciplinary investigations on the possibilities of utilizing forest residues as raw material have recently been initiated or are already proceeding in the Nordic countries.
20112903|An insecticide bioassay method for Myzus persicae (Sulz.) is investigated using probit analysis for between-assay comparisons. It is shown that the method is reproducible and that stable aphid-culture conditions are important for the homogeneity of results. It is confirmed that stages I &amp; II have higher insecticide tolerance than adults and demonstrated that the choice of formulation of insecticide is important to the precision of probit-estimates. Normally, the maximum probit-line slope obtainable with a bioassay technique is not known. In the case of M. persicae the indirect measurement of insecticide tolerance by esterase-assay makes it possible to estimate this upper limit. When this is done, it is shown that the technique investigated adds only little experimental variation to the within-clone variation of esterase activity.
20113119|Field studies were conducted in dry season, intermittently flooded rice Oryza sativa L. to quantify nitrogen (N) loss due to denitrification. Nitrogen gas flux (N + NO) and NO flux were monitored using a closed chamber collection method and mass spectrometric and gas chromatographic analytical techniques throughout two growing seasons in
20113253|The sand lizard Lacerta agilis has declined in most of north-western Europe during the last decades, mainly due to loss and fragmentation of its habitat. The species reaches the northern periphery of its range in central Sweden, with a few, isolated relict populations restricted to large, sandy areas dominated by pine forest. Six local populations within one of these areas were censused during 1984-1998. Two populations went extinct and the remaining four declined, each with less than ten adult females left in 1998. Efficient afforestation and fire suppression seem to be the most important factors behind the recent decline of the species, having reduced the amount of open, suitable habitat. Life table analysis of two populations implied an average 6% decline and 3% increase in population size per year, respectively ( = 0.94 and 1.03). Simulations of stochastic future population growth for 20 yr with no management predicted a 39% and 8% risk of extinction, respectively. Projected risks of population extinction and decline were highly dependent on the population growth rate, which in turn was greatly affected by the estimates of juvenile survival. Elasticity analysis demonstrated that this latter demographic parameter contributed most to population growth rate under asymptotic conditions. Simulations of five different conservation management options ranked a programme of captive raising (increased juvenile survival in captivity during the first hibernation) or captive breeding (using a breeding stock from the two populations, respectively), in parallel with habitat management, potentially to be the most effective options to drastically reduce the risk of extinction and decline.
20113234|The North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) has received considerable attention in meteorology in the context of climate change, where its influence on wintertime warming throughout Northern Europe has been well-documented. Here, after reviewing reports of influences of the NAO on changes in abundance of organisms in marine and terrestrial ecosystems, we develop a case study of the population ecology of red deer Cervus elaphus in relation to climate change by analyzing previously published data. In both Sr-Trndelag, Norway, and Rum, Scotland, total abundance of red deer increased two years after increasingly warm winters. In Norway, this increase operated through enhanced cohort-specific fecundity of 2-yr old hinds, which was not related to density. On Rum, the two-year delayed increase in abundance was attributable to increases in annual fecundity of three-year old hinds and milk hinds, as well as survival of yearling females. Additionally, the NAO influenced abundance on Rum through density-independent mortality of adults, and may have exerted an indirect regulatory influence through annual fecundity of 3-yr old hinds, the only parameter observed to decline with rising female abundance. In contrast, however, in Sr-Trndelag, survival of neither yearlings nor adults was related to winter harshness, suggesting a lack of influence of the NAO on these potentially regulating factors. These relationships indicate that global change may produce similar responses in the dynamics of red deer in both populations, but through different mechanisms.
20112957|Sediment oxygen uptake (SOU) was measured in the laboratory at in situ temperature in undisturbed sediment cores from the acidified Lake Grdsjn and two less acidic lakes. Sediment oxygen uptake in the investigated lakes was low (8-20 ml O
20112586|Fungi can accumulate Ca in excess of their apparent physiological needs by release of oxalic acid to form the sparingly soluble Ca oxalate. Fungal release of oxalic acid may also form stable complexes with other metallic cations, which would influence both soil weathering processes and release of P from Fe and Al hydroxyphosphates. Both saprophytic and mycorrhizal fungi may be utilizing similar functional nutrient cycling mechanisms with respect to Ca accumulation. Bacteria and Streptomyces sp. can decompose Ca oxalate, which recycles the cation and permits formation of calcium bicarbonates or carbonates. Oxalate decomposing bacteria and actinomycetes were isolated from the digestive systems of oribatid mites, earthworms, a springtail and two immature aquatic detritivores, a mayfly and a stonefly. Earthworms and oribatid mites are among soil animals known to utilize or cycle substantial amounts of Ca. A proposed Ca cycle, operative by fungi, bacteria, and soil animals in the context of the soil ecosystem, is presented.
20113188|The mountain birch Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa forest is a natural, non-managed forest. About every 9-10 yr, stands of this forest are defoliated by caterpillars of the indigenous geometrids Operophtera brumata and Epirrita autumnata, mainly on the western/maritime and the eastern/continental side of the Fennoscandian mountain chain, respectively. In the Abisko valley-Lake Tornetrsk area, the two outbreak types occasionally meet. The great importance of these outbreaks for heath and meadow birch forests in the area is exemplified. Leaf-mining Eriocrania spp. and the sawfly Dineura virididorsata, known for outbreaks outside the area, occur in the Abisko valley in moderate or low numbers. Weather events ("frosts") have repeatedly decimated the birch bud population locally in the valley and exceptionally long-lasting birch rust Melampsoridium betulinum infestations recently caused premature foliage yellowing. Sometimes reindeer browsing of birch foliage has been substantial. Interactions between the forest and main agents are described. A new, or renewed, threat to the birch forest along the Norwegian coast, i.e. attacks of the microlepidopteran Argyresthia retinella, is presented. The position of the Abisko valley-Lake Tornetrsk area within the outbreak areas of the treated insects in northern Fennoscandia is defined and changes in outbreak distributions are discussed in a time perspective.
20113298|Timber harvest practices in Canadian boreal forests are currently progressing from concepts surrounding sustained yield of wood to those implicit in sustainable forest management (SFM), including also ecological and social values. This paper discusses the research questions arising from the inclusion of ecological management, which are inextricably linked to the need for management at multiple spatial scales. The current management challenges thus require the development of a hierarchical SFM framework, including coarse, intermediate and fine filter concepts. First, ecosystems must be identified and represented in the long term at appropriate amounts across the landscapes within ecoregions. Second, forest retention at both landscape and stand scales must include levels of structural elements above thresholds, both spatially and temporally. Third, in order to design adaptive management research questions, both planning and effectiveness indicators are required. Finally, tradeoffs among ecological, economic and social components as well as within and between scales will enhance the ability of practitioners to make intelligent decisions. In reality, however, traditional sustained yield forest management still dominates.
20113198|Two predominating types of ecosystems in the Subarctic were exposed to simulated environmental perturbations. A heathland ecosystem was exposed to enhanced UV-B (corresponding to 15% ozone depletion) combined with either increased CO (600 ppm) or additional watering. An ombrotrophic peatland ecosystem was exposed to only enhanced UV-B. Responses both at a plant species level, including different growth forms and life strategies, and at a trophic level (decomposition of organic matter) were studied. There were differences both in the magnitude and direction of plant responses to enhanced UV-B. The four dwarf shrub species in the heathland developed shorter stems, though not at a significant level in the two deciduous species. The leaves of the evergreen, thick-leaved V. vitis-idaea grew thicker under enhanced UV-B, while leaves of the two deciduous species V. myrtillus and V. uliginosum grew thinner. The heathland moss H. splendens showed reduced growth after two and three years under enhanced UV-B but when water was applied simultaneously growth was stimulated by enhanced UV-B. The peat moss S. fuscum had 20% less height increment during the first growing season under enhanced UV-B. Mosses tended to respond quicker to a change in UV-B regime than long-lived dwarf shrubs did. They responded in growth and phenological development already after a few weeks of treatment. Enhanced UV-B in the heathland affected decomposition of organic matter. It had direct negative effects on decomposer community function and structure and indirect negative effects on turnover of V. uliginosum leaf litter by changing the tissue quality of the litter. This was confirmed by studies in the field with another deciduous dwarf shrub (V. myrtillus). Increased growth due to enhanced CO was recorded in V. myrtillus during the first growing season. No change in growth was apparent in any of the dwarf shrubs on a longer-term perspective but the number of flowers and berries were increased in V. myrtillus. There was, however, reduced growth in V. myrtillus but enhanced growth in the moss H. splendens when UV-B and CO were enhanced simultaneously.
20112932|Spherical carbonaceous particles are emitted from fossil fuel combustion. When deposited in lake sediments they are preserved. The number of particles at different levels of any recent lake sediment reflects the historical development of fossil fuel combustion. Characteristic changes of the sediment soot content form marker horizons which can be used to date two, three or more levels in homogeneously deposited lake sediments. A prerequisite, however, is that an exact chronology of the soot fall-out history can be established in each particular area by means of a precise dating method such as varve-counting or by other dating methods such as Pb-210 and Cs-137.
20113311|Large woody debris (LWD) was quantified in 4382 forest stream sites in Sweden. LWD was present at 73% of the sites, but the amount was low with a median number of 1 piece of LWD 100
20112673|Qualitative and quantitative variations of the algal flora in paddy fields in Senegal were studied. Between planting and tillering, unicellular eucaryotic algae were dominant. Between tillering and panicle initiation, filamentous green algae and non heterocystous blue-green algae were dominant. After panicle initiation, heterocystous and non heterocystous blue-greens became dominant if the plant cover was sufficiently dense; under a weak plant cover, filamentous green algae and non heterocystous blue-green algae remained dominant. Total algal biomass was greatest between tillering and panicle initiation; then, after heading, it decreased. The measured values varied from a few hundred kilos to many tons of wet algae per hectare. The nitrogen-fixing algal biomass, small at the beginning of the cultivation cycle, reached an absolute maximum after heading and a relative maximum at the end of the cultivation cycle. Observed values, generally a few hundred kilos, could exceed a ton per hectare in some exceptional cases. The N-fixing algal biomass was positively correlated with soil pH and with density of plant cover. Intensity of light reaching the soil is an important factor in the evolution of algal flora composition. Growth and nitrogenase activity of N-fixing blue-green algae are dependant upon a plant cover sufficiently dense to protect them from the inhibitory effect of very high light intensity occurring in Senegal (70000 lux at 1300 hrs). Maximum light intensity in the day determined variations of algal N-fixing activity. Four types of daily cycles were found. Values recorded varied from 0 to 60 nmoles
20112736|Several aquatic model ecosystems were used to estimate the bioaccumulation potential of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD). Five species of aquatic organisms (algae, snails, daphnids, mosquito fish and catfish) were exposed to TCDD in water at concentrations of 0.05-1330 ppt (parts per
20112821|Main questions of soil process studies within the Swedish Coniferous Forest Project are presented as a background to the papers in this volume. A description of the research organization is made and the development lines are indicated.
20112880|Glucose is the predominating single organic building block in living material. Glucose transformation processes were studied in different types of lakes. The main part of the glucose was bound, for example, in polysaccharides such as cellulose and starch. Breakdown of these large molecules formed a free glucose pool. Glucose was further taken up by microorganisms. Practically no glucose transformations occurred in poisoned sediment. Glucose pool size and turnover time were independently measured. Glucose transformation rate was a function of both these parameters, which varied in different lake sediments and showed large seasonal fluctuations within a single lake.
20112522|In this article the global biogeochemical cycling of phosphorus is treated from a quantitative angle. Not only the various transfers but also the various inventories of phosphorus have been calculated from literature values. The atmospheric part of the phosphorus cycle is largely unknown. A total global deposition rate of 6.2-12.8 Tg P
20112584|In the course of investigations on forest ecosystems the litter breakdown in hornbeam-oak associations was studied. The purpose of these studies was to establish the consumption of five large-bodied lumbricid species (Dendrobaena platyura platyura. D.p. depressa, D.p. montana, Lumbricus polyphemus and L. terrestris) in connection with different chemical conditions of the litter substance. In two parallel feeding experiments in 3-monthly repetition the litter of Carpinus betulus. Tilia plathyphyllos. Fraxinus excelsior and Acer platanoides was given separately from November until March, respectively May. The quantity of consumption was calculated in mg
20113189|Studies on in situ prey capture and the influence of prey capture on nutrient economy and growth are summarised and related to demographic characteristics for three Pinguicula species growing in subarctic Scandinavia. Based on results from experiments evaluating the effects of trapping rate on growth together with relationships between plant size, seed production, fecundity and mortality we estimated the increase in certain fitness components resulting from carnivory. Prey capture allowed P. vulgaris to increase its seed output, manifested as an increase in the amount of seeds (total mass) produced per reproductive plant and as a higher frequency of reproductive events, as well as its survival rate. The other two species only showed a marginal fitness increase. The difference in response between species can be ascribed to the higher rate of prey capture by P. vulgaris.
20112775|A field study is presented of carbon dioxide and methane fluxes to the atmosphere in relation to temperature and moisture for the ombrotrophic parts of the subarctic mire at Stordalen (Swedish IBP Tundra Biome study site). Measurements were made on six occasions over a season of 145 days, and a regression model explaining 69% of variation was obtained for carbon dioxide versus temperature and moisture. Using a mean moisture value for the season and temperature as a driving force in the regression model, a flux of 33.1 g C
20112827|The role of the mites Phthiracarus spp. and Rhysotritia ardua and the enchytraeid worm Cognettia sphagnetorum for decomposition of Scots pine needle litter was studied in field and laboratory experiments. Modified litter bags enclosed litter and animals in various combinations. Needle litter with mites present was less decomposed than the control and had in one case lower amounts of lignin left at the end of the experiment. As regards weight loss, an increase or no effect at all was found with enchytraeids present, while the effect on lignin levels was the same as that found with mites. Different mechanisms for animal influence on decomposition are discussed in order to interpret the results.
20113190|This review deals with the photosynthetic characteristics of mosses and lichens in the Tornetrsk area in northern Swedish Lapland. Most of the studied species have circumpolar distribution. It could be shown that the photosynthetic performance of cryptogams is well adapted to the special conditions of different subarctic microhabitats. Even different populations of the same species occur in different microhabitats. Probably in these cases there are not only plastic but also genetically fixed responses. Further, there were diurnal and seasonal variations in photosynthetic rates in mosses and lichens. Snow is an important mechanical and physiological factor for cryptogams in subarctic and arctic regions. The epiphytic lichen Parmelia olivacea could be used as indicator for the winter snow depth in the subarctic birch forest. Some species were able to photosynthesize even under a snow layer if light was not limiting (as in spring). Exposure of the heath moss Hylocomium splendens to ultraviolet-B radiation resulted in reduced biomass production. However, also stimulative effects of UV-B were found when UV-B was combined with additional irrigation. Interaction of UV-B and enhanced carbon dioxide concentrations reduced growth in H. splendens and in some lichen species. More ecophysiological work is needed to get a better understanding of the functioning of cryptogams in subarctic ecosystems.
20112832|The model describes the growth of a Scots pine, about 15 years old, with a time step of one day. The tree has been subdivided into eight different organs: (1-4) four age-classes of needles, (5) branches, (6) stem, (7) large roots, and (8) fine roots. In addition, the entire resources of labile carbohydrates, nitrogen, and water are defined as state variables. The dynamics of the carbon module is established by considering photosynthesis, growth, respiration, and losses of structural material. Each of the nitrogen and water modules contains only one uptake and one loss process. Throughout the model it is assumed that the combined effect of several factors on a process can be described in a multiplicative way. Wherever possible, physiological information has been used for process descriptions, but in many cases only qualitative guesses have been possible. Driving variables are only expressed through their daily means. The results of some simulations are reported. One conclusion derived from the simulation is that the handling of the dynamics of the labile carbohydrate requires great care.
20112701|For three years, higher dry matter yields have been obtained from grasses inoculated with tropical strains of the bacterium Spirillum lipoferum than uninoculated counterparts. During the first year, 1974, inoculated Panicum maximum (guineagrass) and Digitaria decumbens (digitgrass) produced 80% and 61% more protein than uninoculated controls. In 1975, inoculation produced significantly higher protein and dry matter yields in Pennisetum americanum (pearl millet) and P. maximum. Projected yields using regression analysis of both pearl millet and guineagrass indicated that about 40 kg
20112927|The Lake Grdsjn catchment was selected as the site of an integrated study of biological and chemical processes in an area with an ample deposition. The catchment (5804N, 1203E) receives a high atmospheric deposition of acid sulphur and nitrogen compounds as well as neutral sea salts. The climate is maritime and relatively humid. The catchment (2.114 km, altitude range between 113-170 m a.s.l.) contains five lake basins, which together occupy 23.2% of the area. The bedrock consists of igneous and metamorphic rocks of intermediate to acid chemical composition and is crossed by several sets of fractures. The soil cover is thin and frequently interrupted by outcrops of bedrock. Podzols have been developed since the final retreat of the ice sheet, approx. 12500 yr ago. Some important chemical and mineralogical properties of the soil are treated in detail. Eight percent of the area is occupied by bog and fen peat of varying thickness. Glacial clays are of minor importance, but cover some parts of the lake bottoms. The catchment contains both mature mixed coniferous forests and clearfellings, the latter being an important feature of the upper part of the catchment. The total catchment is divided into six subcatchments, following the lake basins. All the lakes are oligotrophic and pH has been close to 5 or lower during the last decade. Lake Grdsjn which makes up the lower end of the catchment, is the largest lake. At its outlet runoff is registered at a gauged weir, as is also done at three small catchments (2.8-3.6 ha) close to Lake Grdsjn that were selected for specific studies.
20112504|Finland, like many other industrialized countries, has had difficulties in maintaining its desired level of economic growth during recent years. The principal problem has been the scarcity of domestic raw materials to support the desired industrial expansion of forest industries, and the increasing prices of imported fossil fuels. Another important problem has been the adverse ecological effects caused by the entire forestry sector. Studies have demonstrated that both these problems can be analyzed by means of energy and material accounting. These studies suggest that the accounting of energy and material flows offers an effective tool for analyzing the use of potential natural resources and its efficiency, as well as the related environmental effects. The studies also suggest that, at present, accounting of energy flows offers the best and most comprehensive, although by no means complete, indicator for estimating the environmental impacts of the forestry sector.
20113266|Wood-decay fungi depend on dead wood in their habitats in order to be able to sustain viable populations. Throughout large areas of northwestern Europe, human demands for wood have been high during extensive periods and consequently, substrate is lacking over large forest areas to maintain all species of wood decay fungi. Today, natural forest ecosystems with a long continuity have a highly fragmented distribution. Dispersal, largely through airborne basidiospores, among the remaining forests with high supply of dead wood is crucial for long term survival of a wood decay species in the forest landscape. Studies of spore dispersal gradients in common decay fungi, e.g. Heterobasidion annosum indicate that the majority of spores fall within the vicinity of a fruiting body. However, some spores may travel several hundreds of kilometres to establish fungal individuals. In agreement with the data of potential spore spread, genetic markers do not reveal large differentiation in common wood-decay fungi. However, in the rare polypore Fomitopsis rosea, genetic differentiation and reduced viability of spores were detected in the fragmented populations in southern Sweden. This indicates that some rare wood decay fungi may suffer from reduced genetic variation and inbreeding depression. Further studies are needed to study the risk of fragmenting and isolating small populations of wood-decay fungi.
20113102|Carbon dioxide, water vapor and sensible heat flux values from several flight patterns are analysed to examine several techniques of estimating large area fluxes of trace gases. The relative contributions of various length scales to flux estimates are calculated using high-pass filters with different cut-off. Covariance analysis is examined as a technique to account for the effects of different altitudes and changing radiation conditions on flux measurements. Repeated passes over a 44 km wheat growing area during changing radiation conditions provide the data to relate CO fluxes to incident solar radiation. Carbon dioxide fluxes obtained from two successive grid flights over a 1515 km grassland ecosystem are presented as an example of the differences in CO flux measurements due to intermittency of gas exchange and the effect of wind direction. Vertical flux profiles upwind and downwind of the same area are presented as a sample of the data required to estimate the main exchange processes within the atmospheric boundary layer above the surface under investigation. These results demonstrate that, in order to obtain large area flux estimates using aircraft-based systems, many factors need to be taken into account and that the optimum measuring strategy is dependent upon the information desired.
20112506|Generally, the use of foreign species plays a modest part in Norwegian forestry. However, in West Norway, Picea sitchensis has found great use, owing to its high yields. In certain areas these plantations already dominate the landscape. This may not be without adverse effects, for example, for recreation and nature conservation. Similarly, the extensive use of Pinus contorta in North Sweden will gradually create a new and unfamiliar forest type. So far, these plantations are healthy, but there is always an element of uncertainty associated with exotic species. The unfavourable effects of extensive monocultures recorded in Central European forestry will probably not assume the same proportions in Nordic coniferous forests, with their generally great local variations in site. Even spruce monocultures are usually interspersed with a natural element of broadleaves, breaking some of the monotony. Nevertheless, certain adverse effects of monocultures must be kept in mind, such as possible soil degradation, reduced variety, disasters resulting from attack by insects and fungi, the hazard of forest fire, and dull uniformity of the landscape.
20113320|Sustainable land management requires monitoring of the status and trends for elements of biodiversity at the landscape scale. We evaluate the usefulness of two types of data sources as compositional and structural biodiversity proxies, viz.: 1) the presence of different ecological groups of specialised or area-demanding birds and mammals; and 2) existing landscape information about historical forest loss, age-class specific tree species composition by area and transport infrastructures. Data from 28 landscapes (&gt 100 km) were collected by means of a questionnaire sent to managers of forest landscapes in Europe's boreal, hemiboreal, mountain and temperate lowland forests, from the Atlantic Ocean to the Ural Mountains. To facilitate comparisons of landscapes across biogeographic regions, larger birds and mammals were divided into ecological groups based on taxonomy, body size, trophic position, and dependence on different forest structures. The diversity of ecological and taxonomic guilds was negatively correlated with measurements of human exploitation of the landscape at the scale of regions, such as railway advent and position in the European west-east gradient in economic development. The occurrence of species requiring large trees was also negatively correlated with the advent of industrial forestry indicated by railway development in the region. The presence of a set of hole-nesting species was negatively correlated with the proportion of forest plantations on former arable land, and the presence of a natural forest indicator (the three-toed woodpecker Piciodes tridactylus) was positively correlated with the amount of coniferous forest with a stand age over 120 yr. The differences in quality and extent of preferred habitat for the species studied can hence be interpreted as the local human footprint on landscapes. This conclusion was also evaluated using an historical ecology approach. A qualitative evaluation of the history of land use and current biodiversity status in three landscapes (South Veluwe in the Netherlands, Sfsen in Sweden, and Yaksha in Russia) confirm the quantitative analyses. We conclude that both simple forest management data and ecological groups of species can be useful indicators of forest biodiversity at the landscape scale. However, critical evaluation of alternative hypotheses of species distribution in Europe such as those related to biogeography of species must be evaluated more thoroughly for example by using historical ecology approaches.
20112507|The most obvious, immediate effect of large-scale logging is the large quantity of slash that produces physical obstruction to winter grazing. Bioclimate, plant cover and availability of forage plants during winter are altered radically after the clear-cutting of large areas. Beneficial effects of logging are an increased supply of epiphytic lichens immediately afterwards, and sometimes an increased growth of higher plants in following years. Reforestation methods also have an impact on the reindeer grazing resource. Controlled burning, which destroys lichen stands for decades but may stimulate a rich growth of certain higher plants, has now been almost abandoned. Mechanical preparation of seed-beds may destroy forage plants, and reindeer herds are reluctant to traverse treated areas. Since the use of herbicides to control deciduous growth in areas under reforestation will probably increase, as will nitrogen fertilization of coniferous forests of dry, lichen-rich dwarf-shrub types, efforts should be made to evaluate thoroughly their effects on reindeer and on reindeer range. The presence of reindeer is an obvious hindrance to logging operations. A relatively limited loss of tree saplings is caused by reindeer digging through the snow for food. Although little research on interactions between logging and reindeer husbandry has been carried out so far, it seems reasonable to suspect that the reindeer husbandry will suffer if existing silvicultural practices are not modified to some extent.
20112834|This paper discusses the possibilities for coexistence of plant species competing for the same growth-limiting resources in spatially homogeneous environments. It is found that differentiation with respect to (i) temporal average, (ii) temporal variance, (iii) phenology of diaspore production can ensure coexistence, whereas differentiation solely with respect to (iv) longevity does not. The possible effects upon the equilibrium populations of the two species when an increase in phenological separation also results in an increased seed production, assumed due to a decreased competition for pollinators, is discussed.
20112561|The zoogeographic distribution of soil fauna may be related to the taxonomic level of the group, the ease of dispersal and the size of the organism. It is concluded that the fundamental niche requirements of small soil animals are cosmopolitan units while those of larger animals are more restricted. Many species of micro- and mesofauna, however, are not eurytopic and the separation of ecologically equivalent species groups is discussed in relation to soil moisture and vegetation types. The divergence in opinion over the relationship between higher plants and the distribution of Collembola and mites might be resolved if the vegetation was described in biochemical terms and not by plant species. The organization of microarthropod communities within habitats is discussed with respect to food, space, time and mortality phenomena. Cryptostigmata exhibit some evidence of trophic differentiation with respect to body size but the differences are insufficient to account for the number of similar sized species within the guild. Potentially competitive species may also be spatially separated and a relationship is described between mite species diversity and microhabitat diversity. Catastrophic mortality and predation contribute significantly to community organization and many animals are probably fugitive species within the habitat mosaic in space and time. The effects of these sources of mortality may be emphasised by the slow recovery of populations due to nutrient limitations to growth.
20112585|Investigations of the feeding activity of three woodlice species from southern Turkmenien were carried out with the special consideration of digestion peculiarities in Hemilepistus cristatus. Woodlice represent the characteristic element of the soil fauna of desert sierozems. They consume green and dead above-ground parts of grasses and forbs and play a significant role as primary decomposers of plant remains. H. cristatus can ingest up to 10 kg of forb litter per ha during their spring activity. Woodlice show distinct specific differences in the amount of food consumed, as well as in its assimilation efficiency. The latter varies from 32 up to 79%. Microbiological investigations of a woodlice intestine and chemical tests of the food and excrements show that cellulose represents the main part of their nutrition. Cellulose decomposition is accomplished in the intestine by cellulolytic microorganisms, mainly by myxobacteria and actinomycetes. The value of the assimilation efficiency in woodlice seems to correlate with the number of cellulolytic microorganisms in the intestine. Activity of microflora resulted in mineralization of plant tissues in the gut and in the excrements of woodlice. Ash content increased in excrements up to 44% in comparison with 14.5% in the food. Woodlice are considered to belong to the group of soil saprophages participating mainly in the carbon cycle and stimulating the mineralization of plant remains in the soil. They have symbiotic relations with microorganisms decomposing nitrogen-free compounds and in this way they can regulate the microbial activity in the soil.
20112577|The shells of T. arcula were analysed qualitatively using the probe of a scanning electron microscope and Castaing's microprobe analyser. The elements Al, Si, K, Ca, Fe, Ti, Cl, S and Mg were detected at several points, and along the diameter. The respective densities are illustrated by distribution maps (X-ray pictures). These analyses do not disturb the structure of the shells. The results are compared to those of Nebela tincta, Euglypha sp., Phryganella acropodia and Centropyxis aerophila.
20112587|The participation of litter-dwelling saprophagous mesofauna in Ca, Mg and K turnover has been studied in oak forest and steppe plots on chernozem in the European part of the USSR (Kursk). Data on animal biomass, nutrient content and nutrient flows through saprophagous populations are given. A conclusion is that soil animals play an important role in nutrient turnover, particularly in oak forest and can influence the further fate of elements in the ecosystem.
20113267|The significance of coarse woody debris (CWD) for biodiversity, carbon budgeting, and nutrient cycling in forest ecosystems is widely acknowledged, however the lack of comprehensive and representative data hinders the progress in understanding dead wood dynamics in forest landscapes and regions. To assess the regional stores of CWD in the St. Petersburg region of northwestern Russia we combined data collected as part of the forest inventory with measurements in 384 sample plots and results of bulk density sampling of 128 dead trees. Forest inventory data for 7 forests with a total area of 1.1 million ha (216 000 forest stands) was processed using a system of ratio estimators derived from measurements in sample plots. The amount of CWD declined with age among young forests and reached the minimum in stands 20-30 yr old. In older forests the amount of CWD increased with age to a level ranging from 30 to 50 m
20112812|The transpiration rates of 20-week-old seedlings of Scots pine preconditioned to short photoperiods and different temperature regimes, were measured. A short photoperiod reduced the transpiration rate in the light by about 10%, whereas a short photoperiod together with low temperature for 3 weeks decreased the rate by 50%. After 6 weeks the transpiration rate was reduced nearly to dark transpiration rate, indicating that the stomata were almost closed. The results are compared with similar effects caused by water stress and abscisic acid.
20113137|The success of pines under diverse environmental conditions results, in part, from their ability to acquire limiting resources under highly competitive conditions. Among the important traits that favor pines over other competitors is variation in the longevity of the principal tissues for resource acquisition -- the foliage and fine roots. Among the major tree genera the pines clearly show the greatest interspecific variation in foliage longevity (1.5 to &gt20 yrs), and some preliminary evidence suggests that the same may be true for fine roots (0.2 to &gt5 yrs). We have constructed a conceptual model suggesting that leaf longevity is a consequence of the interaction of conditions at the site-, crown-, shoot- and leaf-levels. The applicability of this model to explain the variable response of leaf longevity to environmental conditions is evaluated. In contrast to leaves, fine roots of most plants do not show any active separation from the parent in the form of abscission, and limited information is available on the proximate causes of fine root mortality. The effects of environmental stress and resource availability on fine root longevity and production are discussed. Although the interacting factors controlling foliage longevity appear to have been identified, factors influencing fine root longevity are much less certain.
20112709|The phenoxy acids used as herbicides (MCPA, 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T) are formed from chlorinated phenols and chloroacetic acid. The products often contain several impurities, some of which are already present in the starting material. The most toxic of these impurities is TCDD, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin. The level of this compound could be as high as 100 ppm in the 1960's, but due to governmental regulations the level of TCDD has now decreased dramatically.
20112691|Colonization of roots of rice grown in agar, in sand and in soil, by diazotroph bacteria was studied by direct observations (scanning and transmission electron microscopy) and by an indirect method (assessment of location of diazotrophs along the roots through cultural methods together with Acetylene Reduction Activity -- ARA -- tests). Since basal root segments appeared to show significant ARA and to be inhabited by living diazotrophs, these microorganisms were thought to be protected against deleterious effects from the outside by barriers which are discussed.
20113104|Dry deposition is parameterized for the three dimensional regional diffusion simulation model DRAIS. The modeling domain is subdivided into 5349 horizontal grid areas of 55 km each, and 25 vertical layers, 35 chemical species are considered. From these species 24 are stable enough to undergo atmospheric transport. Dry deposition in DRAIS is parameterized as follows; a big leaf multiple resistance model is applied to calculate the uptake of trace gases by different land use types. The canopy resistance is then combined with calculated aerodynamic and surface boundary-layer resistances to determine the dry deposition velocity which is computed at each grid point. The canopy resistance dependencies on physical, chemical and biological surface properties as leaf area index (LAI), temperature, humidity, photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), solubility and reactivity of the trace gas are taken into account. The dry deposition model DEPOMOD has given reasonable diurnal cycles and spatial distributions of dry deposition velocities and canopy resistances for chemical species as SO, O, NO, HNO, HO, PAN and organic acids. DEPOMOD seems to be more adequate for use in regional mesoscale models than commonly used look up tables for the canopy resistance and dry deposition velocity.
20112916|In experiments with sediment-water systems the effects of Cu, Cd, Zn and Pb on nitrification were studied. The experiments were performed with surface sediments from eutrophic lakes, contaminated with salts of the different metals. The lag phase before the rapid decrease in added NH-N was used as a measure of the effect of metals on the oxidation of NH, whereas the effect on the oxidation of NO was calculated from the time before the rapid increase in NO-N. The experiments showed that high levels of metals do not prevent oxidation, the processes were only delayed for a certain time period. This indicates that the nitrifying bacteria became adapted or acclimatised to the metal-rich environment. The experiments also showed that the oxidation of NO was more affected by metal contamination than NH-oxidation, which can be a result of starvation of the NO-oxidizers from the lack of NO. Furthermore, low concentrations of Cu and Pb had a stimulatory effect on the oxidation of NH. The depressing effect of the metals on the nitrification processes followed the order: Cd &gt Zn &gt Cu &gt Pb.
20113199|Photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation and sun-minutes per hour have been monitored at Abisko Scientific Research Station in northern Sweden during the summer of 1994. The PAR and UV-B values have been compared to models, and from the comparison cloud transmission factors could be determined and compared for the two wavebands. For the whole period the clouds, on average, decreased the UV-B to 74.2% of what it would have been without clouds. This means that in simultaneous experiments in which vegetation was irradiated with extra UV-B corresponding to 15% depletion under clear skies, taking cloud cover into account, the radiation corresponds to 19.0% ozone depletion. Ozone column at Abisko during the summer 1994 estimated from measurements at Vindeln to the south of Abisko and Troms to the north showed no depletion compared to a model based on values determined 3-4 decades earlier.
20112734|Swedish foresters prefer to regenerate forests with conifers rather than with hardwood trees, since conifers produce more and have a more valuable wood. In reproduction areas, however, hardwoods such as birch (Betula pubescens and B. verrucosa) and aspen (Populus tremula) appear very rapidly after cutting and grow much faster than coniferous plants. Since dense brush of birch and aspen can damage and kill the coniferous plants it is necessary to clean the reproduction areas of brush. If this is done by mechanical methods the hardwoods sprout shoots from stumps and roots that can grow one meter in length during one summer. The cleaning must be repeated several times until the coniferous plants have matured. Phenoxyacetic acid herbicides offer many advantages over cleaning: the brush can be killed without damaging the conifers, and treatment can be carried out by spraying from aeroplanes, thus considerably reducing the cost. The use of herbicides instead of mechanical cleaning reduces the cost from 1500 to 330 Sw. crowns
20112914|The effect of copper (20 g
20113315|We explored the usefulness of large-scale coarse data sets to study relationships between the regional presence of forest-living birds and mammals with different area requirements, and the degree of historical forest loss on the European continent. We used a limited set of vertebrate species that differ in their body size and position in the trophic level, both factors of which affect the area requirements of species. We then tested the prediction that large and/or specialised carnivorous vertebrates are more affected by forest loss at the regional scale than smaller species with an omnivorous or herbivorous diet. The occurrence of birds and mammals in a 50  50 km Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) grid cell system was extracted from two recently published European Atlases of geographic distribution of species. The forest cover was deduced from the Remote Sensing Forest Map of Europe that classifies each square km to three coarse classes: forest, other land and water. Due to very different landscape histories and natural conditions in the Mediterranean region of Europe, we limited our analysis to the temperate and boreal forest zones both in lowlands and mountains. Six pairs of species predicted to show different sensitivity to forest loss were analysed. Our results suggest that the degree of forest loss in Europe had a much stronger negative effect on the present occurrence of large and/or specialised carnivorous vertebrate species than on smaller and omnivorous/herbivorous species.
20113348|This paper synthesises results on short-term and long-term forest dynamics based on research during 1992-2002 in Suserup Skov -- a semi-natural deciduous forest in Denmark. We evaluate stand-scale and gap-scale dynamics and discuss the possible implications of this research for sustainable forest management. The prominent long-term trend (millennia) is the loss of diversity of trees and shrubs during Iron Age settlements in the region, and the subsequent establishment of beech. A short-term trend (centuries) is mainly the retreat of oak, reflecting a change from open wood-pasture to closed stands. Most recently (decades) Dutch elm disease has reduced elm to a short-rotation sub-canopy species. Parallel to this, ash, line (re-introduced), and maple (recently naturalised) have expanded. Monitoring of the 10 yr structural dynamics suggests that the initial forest cycle model was too simplistic because it did not incorporate the processes of crown expansion and canopy replacement. A strong storm in 1999 accelerated already ongoing processes: changes in diameter distribution, species composition, developmental phases, and dead wood accumulation, but the forest ecosystem also showed high stability, especially in terms of resilience. Detailed studies of gaps showed a temporal increase in light, soil moisture, and nutrient availability as well as a shift in soil microfauna, followed by a strong regeneration response of plants as well as soil biota within two years. Fencing excluded deer browsing. One of the most surprising results of the gap study was that Suserup Skov did not support the general notion that natural forests with limited disturbance have closed N-cycles. In Suserup Skov, leaching rates of ca 20 kg N
20112921|Algal tests -- inhibition of growth and photosynthesis -- were performed to examine some of the problems which arise when tests are used to predict the effects of chemical agents in nature. The marine diatoms Phaeodactylum tricornutum and Skeletonema costatum and natural phytoplankton were tested. 4-nitrophenol was used as a test compound. Effect concentrations (EC values) were depending on the observed test variable. The growth inhibition test was more sensitive than the photosynthesis test. Inhibition of biomass was found to depend on the test conditions and is therefore not usable in toxicological tests. In photosynthesis tests S. costatum and P. tricornutum were equally sensitive, and natural phytoplankton was more sensitive. The toxicity of 4-nitrophenol depended on pH in the medium; it decreased with increasing pH values. The greatest effect of 4-nitrophenol on growth rate was found at 15C. In contrast to the test conditions natural conditions are complex and caution must be exercised when applying test results to effects in nature.
20112690|To assess the contribution of blue-green algae and the rice root zone to nitrogen fixation in the submerged rice soil, an in situ acetylene-reduction assay technique was developed. Assays were conducted for 11 months in the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) plots at Los Baos, Philippines. Assay chambers consisted of plastic bags attached to metal cylinders, which were inserted into the soil. Because the evolved ethylene was oversaturated in its soil-water phase within the assay chamber, it was necessary to stir the soil before gas sampling to release the ethylene into its gas phase. This assay method could not detect nitrogen fixing activity occurring in the bulk of anaerobic soil. In unfertilized plots, highest peaks of in situ acetylene-reduction activity appeared late in the growing season, in both wet- and dry-season crops, when the activity of blue-green algae in flood water was highest. By replacing flood water with distilled water, to eliminate the bulk of algal activity, we assessed the contribution of blue-green algae to the nitrogen fixing process. When algal growth was visible in the field, nitrogenase activity of the assay system decreased sharply after water replacement. Nitrogenase activity estimated by the in situ assay technique fluctuated greatly with the activity of blue-green algae. Nitrogenase activity in the rice root zone was at an almost constant but low (0.05 kg N/ha per day) rate. Ratoons from rice stubble showed higher nitrogen fixing activity than intact plants before harvest or than stubble in which ratooning was prevented. Facultative anaerobic, nitrogen fixing bacteria, including Enterobacter, and unidentified, gram-negative rods were isolated from lowland rice roots.
20112737|The proliferation and activity of soil organisms, microorganisms and animals are necessary for creating and maintaining conditions favorable for plant growth. A review of interactions between soil organisms and phenoxy acids is given in this paper. The distribution and breakdown of phenoxy acids in soil is relatively well documented. Degradation is mainly microbial, and adaptation phenomena occur. Phenoxy acids exert effects, inhibitory or stimulatory, on growth or on other activities of certain soil organisms. The acute effects are, however, with few exceptions, small. Knowledge about the effects of repeated applications of phenoxy acids on changes in the composition and activity of soil flora and fauna is sparse. The overall evidence indicates that side effects of proper usage of phenoxy acids will influence soil fertility and crop growth very little. Despite some lacunae in our knowledge of the effects of phenoxy acids on soil organisms, this class of substances is one of the best understood pesticide groups with regard to their fate and behavior in the soil environment.
20113235|To predict the impact of global climate change on wild populations, there is a need to evaluate the effects of variation in global and local weather on changes in population size and demographic parameters. Here, we examined how adult survival of chamois Rupicapra rupicapra and isard R. pyrenaica covaried with variation in global weather (measured by the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index during winter) as well as local weather (winter, spring and autumn precipitation and temperature, duration of snow cover during winter, and day-degrees during spring) during a 13-yr period in two populations (one in the Alps and one in the Pyrenees). We investigated direct, delayed and cohort effects of weather on survival. In the Pyrenees, the NAO partly accounted for cohort variation in survival: individuals born after positive NAO (indicative of high temperature and low precipitation in winter) exhibited a low adult winter survival. In addition, survival of all cohorts increased when precipitation was high and temperatures were low during the preceding spring. In the Alps, survival decreased following a positive NAO and low spring day-degree. In contrast to the Pyrenees, no cohort effect could be detected. We failed to detect any direct impact of winter weather on survival in either site. Hence, global changes in winter weather seem to operate indirectly through effects on vegetation which have either lingering effects (the cohort effect observed in the Pyrenees) or delayed effects (the one-year lagged effect observed in the Alps). If global warming leads to lower snow cover, as expected, this may have a negative effect on the survival of chamois. A possible increase in spring temperature would have opposite effects in the Alps and in the Pyrenees, showing possible different local response to the same global phenomenon at the intra-specific level.
20113344|Effects of a controlled disturbance (sieving and drying of soil) on free-living nematode assemblages in Suserup Skov forest soil were studied at two microsites with different soil conditions and tree stand age. Results confirmed that nematode assemblages are site specific on a small scale in this forest, most likely as a result of variation in soil properties. Responses to the disturbance were similar with regard to distribution of nematode feeding groups at both sites suggesting that the microflora was uniformly affected at both sites. However, effects on total number of nematodes and on summed maturity index differed between the two microsites in Suserup Skov. The findings of this and three previous studies in Suserup Skov are summarized to present an overview of how soil nematode assemblages reflect environmental conditions in this semi-natural forest.
20113337|We quantified changes in forest structure in Suserup Skov based on two detailed inventories of forest development phases carried out in 1992 and 2002. The inventories were based on a forest cycle model for Suserup Skov, which included five sequential development phases (innovation, aggradation, early biostatic, late biostatic, and degradation). Due to a multitude of different development processes nearly half of the total area changed phase during the 10 yr, which was more than three times the expected. To a large extent, the observed changes between developmental phases followed the basic forest cycle. However, many deviations did occur, of which the most important can be summarised as: 1) the majority of the area in the innovation phase in 2002 originated from phases other than degradation. This was caused by storm damage resulting in aggregate tree fall and the massive spread of Dutch elm disease resulting in sudden die back of patches dominated by elm trees; 2) the majority of the area in the early biostatic phase in 2002 originated from phases other than the aggradation phase, due to crown expansion of trees in the early biostatic phase surrounding canopy gaps; and 3) the majority of the area in the aggradation phase in 2002 was recruited from other phases than the innovation phase, because of a well developed understorey that gradually replaced areas with a degraded canopy. These processes are discussed and presented in a revised model of the overall structural dynamics in Suserup Skov and discussed as a reference for nature-based forest management of deciduous, temperate forests.
20113154|Soil solution chemistry was investigated for 3-4 yr at two Swedish sites, Svartberget (N Sweden) and Grdsjn (SW Sweden), with different acid loads and also at Tisa in the north of the Czech Republic. At Svartberget the aluminium concentrations were highest in the eluvial horizon (35 M) and 75% of the aluminium was organically bound. The concentrations of aluminium were low below the illuvial horizon. At Grdsjn, the concentration of inorganic aluminium was high in the illuvial horizon, and constituted 80% of the total aluminium (70 M), but decreased with depth. At Tisa, inorganic aluminium in high concentrations (1000 M) leached throughout the whole profile. When the process of podzolization is occurring, organic acids form complexes with aluminium, whereby the weathering rate is enhanced and the eluvial horizon forms. In the illuvial horizon aluminium and iron are immobilized. High concentrations of aluminium, of which inorganic aluminium constitutes the largest proportion, indicate that the process of podzolization is perturbed. The equilibria of
20113274|We studied the abundance and diversity of six species of small mammals in relation to structural habitat factors related to the vegetation in a mountain region in northern Sweden. Small mammals were snap-trapped along transects at different altitudes in subarctic birch and coniferous forest. Three structural habitat factors, the cover of logs (coarse woody debris), branches (fine woody debris) and umbrella vegetation (vegetation higher than 30 cm) were estimated for each trapping site. Initially, the data set was analyzed by principal component analysis. The first extracted component, which could be interpreted as a variable of overall abundance of the small mammals, explained 93% of all variance in the species-environment relation. This component was positively correlated with the cover of logs, but not with the cover of branches and umbrella vegetation. On the species level, the abundance of Clethrionomys glareolus, C. rufocanus and Myopus schisticolor showed positive correlations with both cover of logs and umbrella vegetation. In contrast, the abundance of Lemmus lemmus was negatively correlated to the cover of logs. There was also a positive correlation of the abundance of C. glareolus and M. schisticolor with the cover of branches. Furthermore, the populations of C. glareolus tended to be more numerically stable where more logs were present. Our study stresses the importance of structural habitat factors in affecting the overall abundance and diversity of small mammal assemblages in the subarctic birch and taiga landscape. Most likely, the positive relations of species abundance and diversity with the structural factors were closely linked to a general effect on habitat conditions for the small mammals, such as the amount of shelter and food.
20112958|Glucose transformation rates were measured in littoral and profundal sediment from lakes of different acidity. A marked seasonal pattern and variation from year to year was found in glucose turnover time and pool size. Glucose transformation rates in profundal sediment in the investigated lakes were as high as or higher than those in non-acidified oligotrophic lakes. Only during winter were glucose transformation rates in littoral sediment found to be reduced in comparison with those in profundal sediment. The results of this study do not support the hypothesis of decreased microbial activity in acidified freshwater sediment.
20112689|Nitrogen fixation was evaluated in whole plants and roots of sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum L.), in intact and disturbed (plants separated from the soil bed) by incubating seedlings in a 15-dinitrogen-controlled chamber. The composition of the microflora associated with sugarcane roots, which develops on nitrogen deficient media, was also examined. The presence of a dinitrogen fixing system associated with roots and with the rhizosphere soil was demonstrated. Plants and roots of both systems incubated under 15-dinitrogen-enriched atmosphere fixed nitrogen at a similar rate. In both intact and disturbed systems the addition of glucose increased nitrogen fixation in roots and rhizosphere soil of sugarcane. Seedlings incubated under 15-dinitrogen showed higher nitrogen fixation at pO 0.02 than at pO 0.07. Transport of fixed nitrogen to the leaves was evident within 24 hours. Sugarcane roots incubated for 3 days under aerobic conditions on sucrose-mineral, nitrogen-deficient media, frequently yielded giant mucoid colonies, 10-20 mm in diameter with trapped gas bubbles, which showed high nitrogenase activity. These colonies contained several species of Azotobacter, Beijerinckia, Derxia, Caulobacter, Clostridium (Saccharolytic group), and Vibrio. Pure cultures of the clostridia fixed nitrogen and required growth factors and anaerobic conditions, but grew aerobically on mineral agar media in the presence of Azotobacter.
20113262|A conservative estimate for the total number of species dependent on dead-wood habitats is 4000-5000 within the area of Finland, which accounts for 20-25% of all forest-dwelling species. A large body of data concerning the average amounts of coarse woody debris (CWD) in both natural and managed forests has accumulated during the 1990s in Fennoscandia, including results from national forest inventories. The average volume of CWD in old-growth forests is generally 60-90 m
20112599|A tracer technique is described to study production and growth of plant roots, and decay of root-borne organic substances in soil and solution culture during vegetation. Plants were grown to maturity under controlled conditions in a
