43443266|The Xochimilco wetland in Mexico City is threatened by reductions to the aquatic system area, overexploitation of water resources, and widespread pollution. The introduced carp (Cyprinus carpio) and Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) compete with endemic species such as the axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum). The Restoration Ecology Laboratory of the Institute of Biology, Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mexico together with local fisher groups, with funding from local government, implemented a project to reduce non-native fish by drawing on local fishing expertise. To improve project management, project coordinators established a participatory monitoring and evaluation scheme, which provides a basis for understanding local livelihood strategies and stakeholder priorities. Recognizing that there are differences among stakeholders and establishing institutional arrangements that account for these differences can result in more inclusive projects based on mutual understanding and cooperation. This, in turn, yields better results. However, group dynamics, local political alliances, and powerful actors turn participation into an intricate social process. Restoration practitioners who are serious about participation should bear in mind that a participatory approach may add complexity to project implementation, but the outcome may be more sustainable restoration projects. El humedal de Xochimilco en la Ciudad de Mxico est amenazado debido a la reduccin del sistema acutico, la sobreexplotacin y contaminacin de las fuentes de agua. Las especies introducidas, carpas (Cyprinus carpio) y tilapia del Nilo (Oreochromis niloticus), compiten con las especies endmicas, como el ajolote (Ambystoma mexicanum). El Laboratorio de Restauracin Ecolgica del Instituto de Biologa, Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico junto con grupos locales de pescadores y con financiamiento del gobierno local, la Delegacin de Xochimilco, han implementado un proyecto de pesca intensiva para reducir las poblaciones de peces exticos con base en la experiencia pesquera local. Los ejecutores del proyecto establecieron un esquema de monitoreo y evaluacin participativos que brinda una base para comprender los medios de vida locales y las prioridades de los actores interesados a la vez que coadyuva en el mejoramiento de la gestin de proyectos. El reconocimiento de que existen diferencias entre los diversos actores y el consecuente establecimiento de arreglos institucionales que ayuden a tomarlas en consideracin pueden dar como resultado un proyecto ms incluyente con base en el entendimiento comn y la cooperacin. A su vez, esto genera mejores resultados. Sin embargo, la dinmica grupai, las alianzas polticas locales y los actores relativamente ms poderosos pueden tornar a la participacin en un proceso social intricado. Los expertos en restauracin que deseen adoptar un enfoque participativo con seriedad deben tomar en cuenta que ste puede aadir complejidad en la implementacin de proyectos, pero el resultado bien puede ser una mayor sustentabilidad.
43443229|Croups in society interested in restoring disturbed landscapes range from self-motivated community groups to big commercial enterprises. While restoration goals are generally identified, the initial starting position for many projects is often characterized by too small a knowledge base and hence the selection process for choosing a restoration technique is not rigorous. Landscape Function Analysis (LFA) is an n-the-field, indicator-based procedure that allows rapid assessment of how well a landscape works as a biophysical system. The rapid conversion of raw field data into useful information is a key design feature. This enables restoration planners and practitioners to understand the effect of disturbances and their drivers, so that appropriate techniques can be devised and implemented to attain restoration goals. The same procedure can be used to monitor restoration progress, once significant and relevant milestones are identified that can be monitored over time. I will describe how I teach this technique in the field and recount how this has enabled restoration practitioners to focus on the underlying disturbances.
43443167|We describe ten years of restoration work on a 56-ha tract of former ranchland. The historical characterization of this area at the time of the displacement of indigenous people by settlers initially formed the basis for our restoration decisions. Today, a higher human population density and a change in climate preclude a return to the presettlement state, necessitating the formulation of other restoration goals and methods. The methods employed, metrics to determine the results of restoration, and the results of bird, butterfly, and plant surveys are listed. Changes in vegetation due to the restoration are illustrated and future plans are discussed.
43443072|Small mammals in restored and native grassland plots were monitored at Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge in Colorado from 1997 to 2005 in order to measure the effects of restoration on small mammal communities. Variation in small mammal metrics (total captures, total biomass, and species richness) were related to both restoration efforts and interannual variation in weather. We compared remnant native grassland sites with restored grasslands and found that restoration plots experienced declines in the above measures following the initial alteration of soil and vegetation. However, abundance of some species and species richness also declined in control plots, probably owing to recent drought. We observed partial recovery of small mammals three to five years post-restoration. These findings suggest that timing and scale of restoration are both important considerations in maintaining small mammal communities.
43443057|Wetlands, uplands and turtle habitat were targets for a 1995 restoration of 488 m of a lakeshore in Flushing Meadows Corona Park in New York City. Approximately 25,000 plants (native species of grasses, herbs, shrubs, and trees) were introduced and intensively monitored through 1997 and monitored periodically until 2003. Vegetation was not managed during this time. While biodiversity and habitat complexity goals were achieved for wildlife, few elements of the initial plantings persist. Invasive species (common reed [Phragmites australis], purple loosestrife [Lythrum salicaria], common wormwood [Artemisia vulgaris]) are abundant in both uplands and wetlands. The larger upland parcels and larger (and deeper) wetlands supported more planted species and were more resistant to the spread of invasive species. Many of the original plantings were destroyed due to arson, theft, and lack of management.
43440694|Bottomland hardwood ecosystems, important for their unique functions and values, have experienced considerable degradation since European settlement through deforestation, development, and drainage. Currently, considerable effort is underway to restore ecological functions on degraded bottomland sites. Restoration requires a better understanding of the biological components, especially plants, and their interactions with other biotic and abiotic components of the ecosystem. Previous experimental approaches have focused on the effects of stress on floodplain plant species in controlled, small-scale studies or large, uncontrolled ecosystem-scale studies. We describe a facility, named the Flooding Research Facility (FRF), where hydrologic regimes can be manipulated to study ecophysiology of floodplain species. Key features of the FRF include the ability to establish experiments on a scale larger than would be possible in a greenhouse, but small enough to control key abiotic variables, such as flood frequency, duration, and light availability on native bottomland soil. Design of the FRF allows for random and replicated treatment applications. Additionally, we provide an example of ongoing research on the effects of flooding and light availability on pondberry (Lindera melissifolia), a federally endangered shrub found in the southeastern United States.
43443270|The riparian vegetation along many rivers is so modified by farming and grazing that forest restoration targets are far from obvious, and initial steps are hard to plan. The Ayuquila River in southern Mexico offered the opportunity to test an approach that integrates ecological data and ethnobotanical information to identify reference sites that could serve as restoration targets and prioritize woody species for initiating restoration. In this case study, data from 12 sites along a 90 km section of the river included 125 herbaceous species (98 genera, 47 families in a total sampling area of 120 m) and 77 woody plant species (58 genera, 36 families in a total sampled area of 6,000 m). Of the woody plants, 37 were known to have one or more human uses. We employed one ranking protocol to select reference sites (based on diversity, forest structure, and ethnobotanical use) and another to prioritize the woody plants for potential reintroduction (based on five species attributes). The latter protocol yielded 15 species that deserve further testing for their ability to establish in restoration sites. The site/species selection protocol proved useful in selecting restoration targets and prioritizing speciestwo early steps in projects designed to conserve biodiversity, maintain associated cultural values, and catalyze community involvement in riparian ecosystem restoration. La vegetacin riparia frecuentamente se encuentra tan perturbada por la prctica de agricultura y ganadera que las metas de restauracin no son obvias, y los pasos iniciales son difciles de planificar. El Ro Ayuquila, en el Sur de Mxico, nos ofreci la oportunidad para probar un mtodo que integra datos ecolgicos y etnobotnicos con el fin de identificar sitios de referencia que podran servir como metas de restauracin, y priorizar especies leosas para iniciar el proceso de restauracin. En este estudio de caso, datos de 12 sitios (a travs de una seccin del ro de 90 km) incluyen 125 especies herbceas (de 98 gneros y 47 familias en un rea total de muestreo de 120 m) y 77 especies leosas (58 gneros y 36 familias en un rea total de muestreo de 6,000 m). De las especies leosas, 37 se conocen por su potencial para uno o ms usos humanos. Empleamos un protocolo de clasificacin para escoger sitios de referencia (basado en diversidad, estructura del bosque, y uso etnobotnico) y otro protocolo para priorizar especias leosas segn la potencial de reintroduccin (basado en cinco atributos de las especies). El segundo protocolo revel 15 especies que merecen ms estudio para verificar la potencial de establecer en sitios de restauracin. El protocolo para escoger sitios y especies result til para escoger metas de restauracin y priorizar especies. Estos son dos pasos iniciales para proyectos con el fin de conservar la biodiversidad, mantener valores culturales, y catalizar la participacin comunitaria en la restauracin de ecosistemas riparias.
43441235|Land managers frequently thin small-diameter trees and apply prescribed fire to reduce fuel loads and restore ecosystem structure, function, and process in forested areas. There is increasing concern that disturbances associated with these management practices can facilitate non-native plant invasions. Cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum), an annual grass from the Mediterranean, has invaded large areas of the interior West and has become the dominant species in many of these areas. In 2003, a ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) ecological restoration site on Mount Trumbull in the Uinkaret Mountains of northern Arizona experienced a large increase in cheatgrass. Thinning and burning projects had been conducted on this site since 1996. Cheatgrass cover increased 90-fold on the thinned and burned plots between 1996 and 2003. While cheatgrass also increased on thinned plots that were not burned and the untreated control plots, the cover of cheatgrass remained low. There were two additional factors that may have influenced the cheatgrass invasion. In 2002, the region experienced the most extreme drought recorded in the past 100 years. Substantial rainfall returned to the area in September 2002, coincident with the timing of cheatgrass germination. Additionally, cattle were reintroduced to the study area in August 2002 after a four-year hiatus in grazing. We present data suggesting that the interaction of prescribed fire and small-diameter tree thinning, potentially exacerbated by cattle grazing and drought, was the primary cause of the spread of cheatgrass. Furthermore, we offer management recommendations for reducing the risk of non-native plant invasion on ecological restoration projects.
43443296|The dry deciduous forest of Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary in the Western Ghats of India is home to two indigenous groups, the Hill-pulayas and the Muthuvas. These groups have traditionally depended on the plant wealth of the area for food, medicine, and shelter. The establishment of a wildlife sanctuary in the area in 1984 and overharvesting in some areas by indigenous and other local people has reduced availability of plant resources, and many indigenous people have become farmers or laborers. In an attempt to restore populations of some of the more exploited plant species, and also to preserve the indigenous knowledge and lifestyle, an internationally funded project worked with local indigenous groups between 1996 and 2000 to restore oonjal (Albizia amara), pulivaka (Albizia odoratissima), venga (Pterocarpus marsupium), puli (Tamarindus indica), and neermaruthu (Terminalia arjuna). These five species were selected by forest inhabitants because the plants are heavily exploited, mainly as firewood. With the participation of local indigenous groups, seedlings were planted in three pit types: namely conventional square pits and experimental ring and saucer pits. Seedling survival results showed that the seedlings planted in the non-conventional ring and saucer pits fared better than those planted in conventional square pits. This paper describes the ethnobotanical aspects of the ecosystem and efforts to develop a participatory project to restore the forest's natural capital, to sustain indigenous knowledge, and to evaluate different pit planting types.
43443294|Little attention has been focused on evaluating river restoration projects. Postproject assessments commonly identify improvements in biological or physical conditions, but opportunities for understanding the interactions between such processes are often missed. This study assesses the linkages between geomorphological and ecological responses in three stream channels in Austin, Texas, restored since 1998 with riffles and steps and riparian planting along graded banks. Prerestoration topographic surveys and data for habitat and macroinvertebrate characteristics enabled comparisons with postrestoration conditions in 2007. Results showed increased channel widths and depths, leading to larger cross-sectional areas and inferred lowered velocities and unit stream power. Improvements in habitats included greater bank stability, less channel alteration, and more diverse velocity-depth regimes. Changes in functional feeding groups of macroinvertebrate communities were reflected in metrics of the Benthic Index of Biotic Integrity, including greater percentages of grazers, filterers, and collector-gatherers in the restored streams. A multivariate statistical model, redundancy analysis, linked improvement in key ecological response variables (taxa richness, % EPT, % grazers, and % chironomids) to better conditions in habitats (lower embeddedness, greater epifaunal cover, greater riparian vegetative width, and more velocity-depth regimes). Key explanatory changes in physical characteristics were increased cross-sectional area and decreased average velocity, which were attributed to restoration designs. These results suggest that although the main restoration goals were to stabilize eroding channels, improvements in physical characteristics could nevertheless lead to positive ecological outcomes. These findings suggest the potential of integrated approaches to target both physical and biological improvements in future restoration projects
43443231|The rea de Conservacin Guanacaste (ACG, Guanacaste Conservation Area) in northwestern Costa Rica in Central America was created to protect in perpetuity the rich natural diversity found there. The ACG contains an entire range of interconnected ecosystems from the Pacific coastal-marine zone, through dry and cloud forests, to the Caribbean rain forest. Generations of human pressures on the area, including ranching, agriculture, fires, timber extraction, and hunting, have degraded these ecosystems, which are now in a process of regeneration through protection from destructive human use. Although protection is an important part of conservation, the ACG's most potent tool for the long-term conservation of its natural resources is the "biocultural restoration" of its neighbors. The ACG's Programa de Educacin Biologica Biological Education Program) promotes the bioliteracy of local students, parents, and teachers through field-oriented workshops in its different ecosystems. Through the education of the surrounding community about its natural resources, PEB is restoring the biological understanding of its neighbors with the aim of creating a community that can make better-informed environmental decisions in the future.
43443139|As North American cities become increasingly diverse, urban ecological restoration needs to adopt a culturally inclusive framework. Using a review of urban ecological restoration literature, inclusive planning literature, and primary research collected from research in the City of Toronto, I examine ecological restoration efforts and offer recommendations for how urban ecological restoration can become responsive to the increasing racial diversity in North American cities.
43443260|In addition to their critical role in food crop production, pollinators keep natural plant communities healthy by assisting with plant reproduction. Currently, forest conditions in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests of the Intermountain West appear to be unfavorable for most insect pollinators. In an effort to reduce fire hazards and regain forest health in these forested landscapes, overstory thinning and prescribed burning are increasingly being applied. These treatments also have the potential to improve habitat for pollinating taxa. In this article, I focus on the potential effects of forest thinning, prescribed burning, and the accompanying incidental introduction of non-native species, as well as the potential impacts of herbivory by wild and domestic ungulates, on plant-pollinator interactions at sites undergoing restoration treatments. Lastly, I make management recommendations regarding how to mindfully conduct forest restoration for the benefit of insect pollinator assemblages despite the current lack of data.
43441263|Ecological restoration in North America traditionally has strived to return ecosystems to some semblance of the early historic (post-Columbian) condition. Emerging alternative paradigms recognize the large impacts exerted by pre-Columbian peoples, the ever-changing nature of ecosystems regardless of anthropogenic effects, and the possibility of using other benchmarks. Recently, the Turner Endangered Species Fund (TESF) initiated a project to restore the endangered bolson tortoise to an area in southern New Mexico within its late Pleistocene, but not historic, range. Justifications included the likelihood that prehistoric humans extirpated it from New Mexico, the presence of habitats similar to those in its current range in Mexico, and escalating threats to the species there. Thirty tortoises long kept captive outdoors in Arizona, another part of its prehistoric range, formed the basis for the restoration effort. The TESF and the Living Desert Zoo and Gardens State Park near Carlsbad, New Mexico, maintain the adults in outdoor enclosures, and incubate eggs and rear young in smaller facilities. The TESF is initiating studies to assess whether the species can persist in the wild in New Mexico. Restoring imperiled species to prehistoric ranges has some precedent in North America and, we believe, merits increasing consideration as historic ranges of some species offer increasingly less security.
43443166|Seeding of non-native species following wildfires to stabilize soils and prevent erosion has become a controversial practice because it risks inhibiting tree regeneration, introducing noxious weeds, and permanently replacing native species. This paper reports the fate of non-native seeded species during 31 years of postfire forest succession in northcentral Washington state, USA. In that region, catastrophic wildfires in grand fir (Abies grandis)/pinegrass (Calamagrostis rubescens) associations characteristically result in a flush of lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) regeneration that creates a dense tree monoculture. In the study, seven grass cultivars were broadcast seeded to prevent erosion, limit tree regeneration, and increase forage production for wildlife and livestock. Tree regeneration, native and non-native species cover, and aboveground biomass were evaluated in 1971,1975, 1980, 1989, and 2001. The seeded species quickly established dominant cover with levels of biomass production two to three times the level of native species. Density of tree regeneration was inversely correlated with perennial grass cover during the first 10 years. Between 1980 and 1989, the seeded grasses disappeared, long before tree canopy closure. Within 15 to 20 years native species had regained dominance, and after 30 years the last remnants of the non-native cultivars were replaced in the seeded areas by a diverse mixture of native graminoids, forbs, shrubs, and trees. In contrast, a monoculture of lodgepole pine dominated the unseeded areas. This study showed that non-native grasses seeded after wildfires do not always persist and can serve as a transition to restoring a more diverse serai community.
43443140|The Lower Passaic River (LPR), from the Dundee Dam to its confluence 17 miles (26 km) downstream with Newark Bay, has suffered severe degradation as a result of extensive urbanization and industrialization. A variety of restoration opportunities for the LPR have been posited by private and government entities; however, a comprehensive understanding of the LPR's ecological system is a necessary prerequisite to effective restoration planning. Key to restoration of an urban system are an understanding of the constraints imposed by the urban environment and a commitment to integrate this knowledge into restoration planning. The goal of our work was to characterize and quantify the physical and ecological attributes, referred to as "benchmarks," of various wetland and aquatic habitats that exist in the LPR. Ecological benchmarking allows restoration planners to comprehensively assess the environmental conditions of the system, analyze the physical and ecological factors influencing habitat development within the system, and learn from habitats that have succeeded despite prevailing constraints and conditions. Benchmarking provides an effective method for evaluating the potential scope for restoration within the system and for developing achievable criteria for success, taking into account both the ecological qualities of the watershed and the limitations of the urban setting. By including historical conditions as well as information from other ecosystems in the region, benchmarking can also be expanded to capture a larger universe of potential restoration objectives. Our work included a combination of literature reviews and field reconnaissance conducted in October 2005. From these activities, a preliminary conceptual framework and habitat matrix were developed to provide a foundation for evaluating potential restoration projects proposed for the LPR.
43441266|There is general consensus that ecological restoration of southwestern ponderosa pine systems is necessary and there exists ample ecological science suggesting that it is physically attainable. However, the pace of restoration has been noticeably slow and is far from approaching the landscape level. We conducted a review of published journal articles, book chapters, and proceedings on the restoration of ponderosa pine forests in the Southwest in order to identify and examine the primary socioeconomic barriers that are impeding the progress of ecological restoration in the region. The role of small-diameter wood utilization in the southwestern United States is highlighted as an example of broader, divergent socioeconomic contexts needing reconciliation if restoration is to expand to the ecosystem scale. A synthesis of opportunities for overcoming barriers and furthering the progress of forest restoration is provided.
43440717|We investigated the influence of three aggressive non-native invasive plants (pale swallowwort [Vincetoxicum rossicum], kudzu [Pueraria lobata], and Chinese privet [Ugustrum sinense]) on arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF). Our findings from central New York and southeastern Alabama forest habitats confirm that each species formed symbiotic associations with native AMF populations. Mycorrhizal dependency of kudzu was high when grown in invaded (85 percent) and non-invaded (83 percent) soil. The results indicate that invasion into new areas by non-native plant species may alter the occurrence of AMF in the resident soil. Evidence for a possible alteration in the AMF community was obtained largely from a Mycorrhiza Infection Potential bioassay. The bioassay indicated that root colonization levels by AMF of bait plants grown in soil collected from areas where the non-native plants formed pure stands were in general significantly greater than root colonization levels in soils collected from adjacent areas where the invasive plants were not present. Furthermore, the number of AMF spores in soil collected from areas invaded by pale swallow-wort was significantly higher than for nearby non-invaded soil. High colonization levels of pale swallow-wort roots with hyphae were observed during most of the growing season. The presence of arbuscules in pale swallow-wort roots was most evident in July and corresponds with the pre-flowering period of this species.
43443071|The highly urbanized Rahway River watershed in New Jersey suffers from frequent flooding due to extensive development and destruction of riparian wetlands and floodplains. A diverse group of stakeholders worked together to restore a 1.8 ha site on the floodplain to riparian wetland with the goals of providing wildlife habitat, filtering pollutants from stormwater runoff, providing stormwater retention to minimize flooding, and providing public access for passive recreation as well as education about wetlands and watershed management. This wetland restoration site has been incorporated into the Union County Parks System as the Michael S. Bezega Wetlands Observation Area. Due to the urban setting (14 houses were removed from the site), the project design and implementation were very complex. Developing the water budgets required analyses of the tidal Rahway River as well as stormwater runoff from local drainage areas. Funding was obtained from six different funding agencies, and the project was constructed largely with city and county public works personnel. Native plants were installed by volunteers who continue to do invasive species management at the site. Key factors contributing to the success of this project include extensive involvement of a diverse partnership of stakeholders, a multi-disciplinary project team, thorough up-front design and engineering analyses, careful selection of vegetation palettes based on analyses of reference wetlands, and extensive on-site supervision of the construction crews by personnel who could make design decisions in the field.
43443264|Antelope grass (Echinochloa pyramidalis) is an African grass species used for cattle grazing in Mexican wetlands. It has been introduced because of its tolerance to flooding and is now a widespread invasive. In this work, we present the advances of a freshwater marsh restoration project represented by bulltongue (Sagittaria lancifolia) but invaded by antelope grass. This project began in 2007 with the goals of eliminating antelope grass and other problematic species, increasing the cover of the native vegetation, and recovering habitat for waterfowl. Two sets of controls were established (in the remaining marsh and the inundated grassland) along with three other managed sites (variations of clipping by hand, drowning the cut plants, burning, covering with black plastic, or selectively applying herbicide). With two years of restoration activities, the antelope grass was almost completely eliminated, remaining only in one control set. The dry conditions of 2009 have favored the resprouting of the invader, but it still has low cover values. Pickerelweed (Pontederia sagittata), cattail (Typha domingensis), and bulltongue have appeared with high cover values in most of the quadrats in almost all sites. Plant species richness has increased with time. Amphibians and reptiles have varied through time but are showing a slight increasing trend. El zacate alemn (Echinochloa pyramidalis) es una gramnea de origen africano que se utiliza para el pastoreo de ganado bovino en humedales del sureste mexicano. La introduccin de esta especie en estos ecosistemas es debida a su tolerancia al exceso de agua y a su adaptacin al forrajeo, caractersticas que le han conferido la capacidad de invadir los humedales. El presente trabajo presenta los avances de un proyecto de restauracin de un humedal herbceo de agua dulce representado por Sagittaria lancifolia pero invadido por zacate alemn. Este proyecto inici en el ao 2007 con los objetivos de eliminar a la especie invasora y a otras especies problemticas, incrementar la cobertura de la vegetacin nativa y recuperar hbitat para fauna acutica. Se establecieron dos sitios control (uno en el popal-tular remanente y otro en el pastizal inundado) y tres sitios manejados (corte selectivo de la vegetacin, incremento del nivel de inundacin o disminucin del nivel topogrfico, incendios controlados, colocacin de plstico negro sobre la vegetacin o aplicacin selectiva de herbicida sistmico). Dos aos despus de iniciadas las actividades de restauracin se ha logrado la eliminacin casi completa del zacate alemn, quedando slo presente en el control del pastizal inundado. El ao 2009 ha sido muy seco, favoreciendo la presencia de rebrotes de la especie invasora. Se han detectado valores de cobertura elevados de especies nativas como Pontederia sagittata, tule (Typha domingensis) y Sagittaria lancifolia en la mayora de los cuadros de monitoreo de casi todos los sitios manejados. La riqueza de especies vegetales se ha incrementado con el tiempo. Asimismo, se ha detectado que el nmero de especies de anfibios y reptiles ha tenido una fluctuacin a lo largo del tiempo con ligera tendencia a aumentar hacia el final del periodo de estudio.
43441236|The Sunshine Coast of Queensland, Australia, is facing increasing pressure from rapid urban expansion. Because of the area's high biodiversity, developers are facing pressure to translocate rare, endangered, and vulnerable plants to more protected areas. Translocation of turves, comprising sections of soil and intact aboveground vegetation, has been used as a strategy for reintroducing understory species where establishment from seed is difficult. Moving populations spatially can change levels and direction of gene flow. In what appears to be one of the largest reported translocations of a rare species, this study uses allozymes, which are variant forms of enzymes, to investigate the genetics of a population of the rare heath species Boronia rivularis, which is to be translocated to compensate for an urban development. The population on the development site was found to be significant due to its large size and high genetic diversity and distinctiveness. Diversity and inbreeding levels were not evenly distributed across the development site; inbreeding was highest where density was highest. It was found that retention of a significant portion of the population on the development site reduced the potential loss of connectivity. However, we found that ecological assessments based on density could have led to the loss of the most genetically diverse and least inbred parts of the population.
43441126|Curtis Prairie, renowned as the world's earliest ecological restoration site, was invaded by reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea) after urban stormwater inflows cut a creek and inundated a 2000-m floodplain. We evaluated the edaphic conditions directly downstream from a stormwater retention pond to determine if sedimentation, nutrients, or elevated groundwater might have favored growth of this wetland weed. A definite signature of urban stormwater influence on reed canary grass expansion is strongly indicated by enriched nutrients (bioavailable phosphorus, nitrate-nitrogen), salt (sodium), and metals (copper and zinc), each of which was significantly elevated in the invasion area and downstream in a sedge meadow. Sodium could have dispersed clays and reduced the soil's infiltration capacity, thereby impounding water. We evaluated soil and hydrologie conditions in order to develop a conceptual model of the invasion process in Curtis Prairie. We suggest that 1) stormwater outflow from the retention pond initiated erosion; 2) reed canary grass established alongside the eroded creek and expanded vegetatively into the prairie as native plants succumbed to flooding; 3) contaminants were continuously delivered onto the floodplain, degrading soil structure and promoting aggressive growth of reed canary grass; and 4) fine-grained sediments and organic matter were transported downstream to the sedge meadow, possibly contributing to future reed canary grass expansion into this area.
43440716|The silphium borer moth (Papaipema silphii), a rare endemic insect in midwestern prairies, completes one life cycle per year and has a short dispersal distance. The moth eggs are presumably laid in the duff near host Silphium plants. Silphium species distributions are primarily restricted to fragmented prairie patches, commonly in upland habitats that can burn more intensely than lowland patches. Thus, these moths must cope with existence in a fire-prone environment. Currently, there is controversy regarding how prescribed fire affects the sustainability of prairie invertebrate populations. We counted larval densities of silphium borer moths within thirty-four 0.1-ha plots in three isolated southern Wisconsin prairies with different burn patterns. The median density of larvae was significantly lower in the rotationally burned prairie than in one of the prairies that has been repeatedly burned edge-to-edge. Larval densities did not differ significantly between recently burned and recently unburned plots. These findings suggest that prescribed fires are not endangering the silphium borer moth, regardless of burn method, at least at these three sites. However, more studies at more locations are needed. We still recommend burning only two-thirds of isolated prairies every year.
43441330|Since being introduced for rangeland improvements in the early to mid-20th century, several non-native grass species have spread beyond their initial planting sites in the American Southwest. Many of these species, especially those that have infiltrated desert ecosystems, can alter fire regimes, which in turn threatens native plant species. In Arizona desert ecosystems, buffelgrass (Pennisetum ciliare) increases fire frequency and intensity, which may create a positive feedback loop, resulting in a shift from native fire-sensitive plant communities to non-native grasslands. Although control efforts are currently underway, a more comprehensive ecosystem approach will be required to treat buffelgrass invasions in southeastern Arizona's deserts. Here, we evaluate the species and environmental factors that may contribute to plant invasion success. We highlight empirical buffelgrass literature as it pertains to invasion, integrate basic invasion ecology theory and restoration ecology to examine potential practical approaches for controlling buffelgrass invasions in southeastern Arizona, and use this information to provide the basis for comprehensive restoration and management. We also briefly discuss public policy related to buffelgrass control in the southwestern United States.
43443051|Funding for ecological restoration efforts sometimes ends prematurely and exacerbates problems that originally were the rationale for the project. In our test of methods to manage exotic species, we mimicked this real world situation and compared management after one year with no ecological restoration with exotic species management continued yearly for five years and followed by ecological restoration (transplanting adult plants of four native species) in year five. Our study site in Ontario, Canada consisted of eight fragmented woodlots dominated by sugar maple (Acer saccharum) and American beech (Fagus grandifolia) that supported dense populations of the exotic species garlic mustard (Alliaria petiolota), dame's rocket (Hesperis matronalis), and celandine (Chelidonium majus). In 1998, we quantified the impact and duration of one-time use of glyphosate, hand-pulling, inflorescence clipping, and mulch on the seedbank and shoots of three exotic species, native herbaceous species, and (for shoots, non-adult) native species of shrubs and trees. By 2006, above-and belowground densities of exotic species significantly increased and native species significantly decreased with one-time treatments of glyphosate and hand-pulling (ANOVA). The exotic species recovered quickly from one-time application of glyphosate, and hand-pulling disturbed the soil and increased relative emergence of exotic species from seed. As expected, inflorescence clipping and mulching were ineffective as one-time treatments but did not worsen the exotic species problem or decrease native species' densities. The repeated management plus ecological restoration was more successful in all cases, with similar results by 2006, while one-time application of glyphosate and hand-pulling worsened problems. We caution that initiating exotic species management can be risky if funding is not secure enough to support longer term efforts.
43441121|An effort to restore wet tropical forest in Costa Rica began in 1993 with plantings of native trees in abandoned pasture land. We compared understory plant species richness in three sites planted with a mix of native tree species with understory species in two monoculture plantations and in two secondary growth (unplanted) areas. Understory species in nearby primary forest remnants are also reported for comparison. We identified 356 understory species, ranging from 46 to 134 understory species per plot. Woody species were predominant (50-80%), as were plant species relying on animals for seed dispersal (60-80%). Our data indicate that substantial progress toward understory species richness can be obtained in the first decade of wet tropical forest restoration.
43443012|Previous studies of vegetation establishment in dam removal sites have shown that natural vegetation community establishment is highly variable and frequently includes species often considered undesirable in restorations. In this article, we examined two case studies where dam removal sites were planted with native species following dam removal in an effort to promote native species establishment and exclude invasive species. Some planted species established soon after the dam removals, but surveys four years later showed a decline in planted species and an increase in non-native species. In both cases, reed canarygrass (Phafons arundinacea) became well established in the interval between surveys. A seedbank analysis of sediments from four intact reservoirs with similar physical characteristics to the removal sites showed that reed canarygrass is not active in the seedbank. This suggests that there may be an opportunity to exclude it from dam removal sites if management actions are taken after removal. However, in these two cases, planting following removal did not exclude reed canarygrass and few of the planted species persisted four years after planting.
43441300|Predicted changes in climate present unusual challenges to conservation planners, land managers, and restoration efforts directed toward preserving biodiversity. Successful organisms will respond to these changes by persisting in suitable microsites, adapting to novel conditions, or dispersing to new sites. We describe three general categories of strategies for restoring and managing natural systems in light of likely changes in future climate that collectively embrace many of the approaches that The Nature Conservancy is applying or considering in the state of Washington. Component redundancy suggests that in natural systems greater ecosystem resilience, despite changing climates, may be achieved by increasing species and community redundancy. Functional redundancy is the idea that different components of a system can fulfill the same functions, thereby producing the same result. Restoration projects and managers of natural systems can introduce ecologically equivalent species or novel associations of species, which may help avoid losses in biodiversity. Increased connectivity suggests that success is achieved by ensuring that suitable habitats are always within easy reach of one another. This includes conservation approaches that provide linkages, corridors, or other mechanisms to facilitate the movement of organisms as they respond to climate changes. We acknowledge that these approaches are not without risk, nor do they necessarily ensure success. However, we propose them as potential solutions among a growing suite of alternative strategies for incorporating climate change into conservation actions.
43440693|Land managers in North America have battled leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), an invasiveexotic plant introduced from Eurasia, for more than half a century. We chronicle a ten-year adaptive management project by The Nature Conservancy to control leafy spurge on a prairie preserve in the Prairie Coteau region of South Dakota. We documented the effectiveness of three biological control agentsdomestic goats (Capra hircus), domestic sheep (Ovis aries), and flea beetles (Apthona czwalinae, A. lacertosa, and A. nigriscutis)in the control of this noxious plant. In addition, we measured the response of the native plant community to control treatments and to competition with leafy spurge in untreated areas. Vertebrate grazers failed to reduce the cover of leafy spurge after five years, although goats prevented its expansion. In contrast, flea beetles dramatically reduced the cover and expansion of leafy spurge. Species richness declined in untreated plots during the first five years of the study in comparison with actively managed plots. The decline in native species richness in unmanaged plots demonstrated the consequences of leaving invasive species populations unchecked, even for relatively short periods of time.
43443074|The Kings Bay, Crystal River complex, located in Citrus County, Florida, is one of the world's largest spring-fed ecosystems and a critical warm-water refuge for endangered Florida manatees. Unfortunately, large areas of Kings Bay are currently in a state of ecological degradation characterized by smothering mats of the filamentous cyanobacterium Lyngbya wollei. The causes of this ecosystem shift are not well understood, although it is often suggested that human-caused nutrient loading into the Bay combined with intermittent saltwater intrusions from storm surges may be responsible. In this article, we present results from interviews with local citizens, a review of aquatic plant literature, and research into the history of ecological change in Kings Bay. Our work indicates that management efforts to eradicate invasive exotic aquatic species may also have played an important role in the dominance of L wollei. We suggest that future restoration efforts should follow a logic of "alternative stable states" that focuses primarily on the recovery of desired ecosystem functions and relaxes the assumption that exotic plants should be minimized. The Kings Bay case study points toward a more adaptive conception of ecological restoration, one informed by local knowledge and open to the utilization of established exotic plants as a tool for maintaining or restoring important ecological attributes.
43443261|Reed canarygrass (Phalaris arundinacea) is a widely distributed invasive species that dominates many natural areas and restoration sites. Cost-effective suppression and restoration strategies need to be developed for plant communities affected by this species. Pretreatments designed to disrupt rhizome apical dominance may augment herbicide performance by making reed canarygrass rhizomes more susceptible to herbicide applications. I tested whether coupling pretreatment disking or kinetin application to herbicide application would enhance chemical control relative to only solitary herbicide application. I also evaluated the relative performance of two grass-selective herbicides, sethoxydim and fluazifop. All treatments suppressed reed canarygrass and indirectly led to improvements in existing native species abundance compared to the untreated control. In terms of reed canarygrass suppression, non-reed canarygrass aboveground biomass, and species diversity (Shannon's diversity), fluazifop performed as well as sethoxydim. Reed canarygrass biomass was consistently lower in plots where either disking or kinetin pretreatments were coupled with herbicide application than in plots receiving only herbicide treatment, though the degree of additional suppression varied with choice of herbicide. When sethoxydim was used for follow-up herbicide applications, disking reduced reed canarygrass biomass more than the kinetin pretreatment, but when fluazifop was used, kinetin pretreatments and disking were similar in their suppressive effect. Results of this study suggest that coupling these pretreatments with herbicide application can improve grassselective herbicide performance on reed canarygrass.
43441329|In many regions and across many different types of forest ownership, there is an increasing emphasis on developing a more holistic approach to forest ecosystem management, one that is more focused on emulating the outcomes of natural disturbance patterns. However, the complexity involved in such an approach, both ecologically and socioeconomically, presents many decisionmaking challenges. This study was a first step in a structured decisionmaking approach aimed at encouraging more informed management choices. The goal was to identify fundamental management objectives and alternatives for management through open-ended interviews with 13 land managers of mixed-pine forest ecosystems in eastern Upper Michigan. The results indicate that where mixed-pine forest ecosystem management is concerned (including management with a restoration emphasis), ecologically motivated objectives such as restoring ecosystem integrity take precedence over socioeconomically motivated objectives like providing forest products. The reverse is true for fire management, where socioeconomic objectives like protecting public safety take precedence over ecological objectives. Despite interest in restoring fire, or using fire as one of many management tools to help emulate natural disturbances, land managers felt their options were limited by uncertainty about the potential risks to their management objectives. They also faced difficult trade-offs between achieving short-versus long-term objectives, as well as significant external barriers such as institutional mandates. These results highlight the need for decision-support tools that will assist managers in balancing competing objectives and making difficult trade-offs in highly complex decision contexts.
43443141|Planning is the first step toward efficient ecosystem restoration. Friends of the John Heinz National Wildlife Refuge near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, was awarded funding through the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation's Delaware Estuary Grant Program to develop a restoration plan for the lower reaches of Darby Creek, which runs through the refuge. Managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the refuge was established by an act of Congress in 1972 to protect the last 81 hectares of freshwater tidal marsh in Pennsylvania. The Delaware Riverkeeper Network was hired in 2005 to carry out an integrated planning effort. The resulting Restoration Management Plan for the Lower Darby Creek, completed in May 2006, combined historical research, aerial photo and map analysis, personal interviews, stakeholder feedback, field research, and data management. The creation of the plan offers a case study to inform other restoration planning efforts for large, diverse areas.
43440719|Many calcareous fen meadows in central Europe have been destroyed in the last two centuries, but now there are several projects to restore them. Unfortunately, excessive establishment of volunteer willows (Salix spp.) can considerably inhibit the establishment of the plant species to be re-introduced, especially when the sod is not yet closed. To control willow establishment, we experimentally tested the influence of sowing times for fen species (autumn, spring), soil cover treatments (straw layers, plastic), and tilling on the establishment of goat willow (Salix caprea) and the fen species themselves. Plastic covering or a thick layer of straw at 3.7 pounds/yd (2.0 kg/m) during the willows' germination time in May almost completely inhibited the establishment of the willows. Fen species sown after removing these layers became established at intermediate levels of roughly 50 individuals/yd (60 individuals/m). Fen species had the highest establishment with no cover (119 individuals/yd,142 individuals/m); however, willows establishment was also highest in those plots (about 3 individuals/yd,4 individuals/m). Tilling showed intermediate results for both willows and fen species. We suggest the use of a thick straw layer (more than 3.0 lbs/yd) or plastic cover in May to reduce large numbers of willows. These layers have to be removed before sowing the fen species. If the presence of willow seeds is low, straw can be reduced to 1.0 lb/yd, which will be low enough to allow the establishment of fen species with the straw remaining on the soil.
43443040|Forest restoration in southwestern ponderosa pine forests often consists of tree thinning and prescribed fire. Understanding the effects of thinning treatments on soil integrity is important due to the potential negative effects on soil properties and plant composition and abundance. We investigated the effects of harvest severity levels (control, low, intermediate, high) and harvest systems (machine, hand, whole-tree) on soil profile disturbance, soil bulk density, and dead woody biomass. There were no significant differences in soil profile disturbance, soil bulk density, or dead woody biomass among harvest severity levels. The whole-tree harvest system produced significantly larger areas with high levels of soil profile disturbance and significantly smaller areas with no soil disturbance than either the machine-or handharvest systems. There were no significant differences in soil bulk density due to insufficient sampling design. Dead woody biomass was significantly lower in the whole-tree harvested areas than the hand-or machine-harvested areas. Dead woody biomass can play an important role in providing microsites for plant reestablishment following disturbance. Our results illustrate that the type of harvest system used in forest restoration treatments is an important factor that needs to be incorporated into forest restoration design to insure compatibility with overall restoration goals.
43443263|Pine-oak forests cover 14.2 million hectares in Mexico, a country that has the richest pine and oak diversity in the world. These diverse forests are a source of goods and services for rural and urban society, but they are being degraded and deforested. A cause of degradation is the alteration of the fire regime caused by fire exclusion or excessive burning. Little information is available on how to restore ecologically appropriate fire regimes in Mexican pine-oak ecosystems. Less is known about the fire ecology of the oak species. To determine which of these pine-oak and oak forests are firemaintained and which are sensitive to fires, and to provide insight into the restoration of appropriate fire regimes, this paper categorizes oak species according to the following characteristics: climate and type of vegetation, environment and succession, fire regime, growth form, vegetative regeneration, regeneration niche, acorn size, foliage type, bark thickness, subgenus, and understory. Frequent low-intensity surface fires are recommended for the restoration and maintenance of many of these forests and to reduce the ecological, economic, and firefighting impacts that result from large-magnitude wildfires, although it is recognized that for some species of pine and oak, periodic high-intensity fires are required. Because the source of more than 40% of the wildfires in Mexico is agricultural and grazing activities, it is essential to consider the needs of rural communities who use fire for their livelihood, and how burning might help restore and maintain these ecosystems. Los bosques de pino-encino cubren 14.2 millones de hectreas en Mxico, pas que cuenta con la mayor diversidad de pinos y encinos en el planeta. Estos bosques son fuente de bienes y servicios para la sociedad rural y urbana, pero estn siendo degradados y deforestados. Una fuente de degradacin es la alteracin de los regmenes de fuego ocasionada por la exclusin del fuego o por incendios excesivos. Existe poca informacin relativa a la restauracin de regmenes de fuego ecolgicamente adecuados en los ecosistemas de pino-encino mexicanos. Hay todava menos informacin sobre la ecologa del fuego en encinares. Para determinar cules de esos bosques son mantenidos por los incendios, cules son sensibles y proveer informacin para la restauracin de regmenes de fuego adecuados, este trabajo categoriza las especies de encinos acorde con las siguientes caractersticas: clima y tipo de vegetacin, ambiente y sucesin, rgimen de fuego, forma de crecimiento, regeneracin vegetativa, nicho de regeneracin, tamao de la bellota, tipo de follaje, grosor de corteza, subgnero y sotobosque. El fuego frecuente, de baja intensidad, es recomendado para la restauracin y mantenimiento de muchos de estos bosques y para reducir los impactos ecolgicos, econmicos y de combate que resultan de incendios de gran magnitud, aunque se reconoce que para algunas especies de pino y encino se necesita fuego peridico de alta intensidad. Debido a que la fuente de ms de 40 por ciento de los incendios en Mxico son las actividades agropecuarias, es esencial considerar la necesidad de la gente en las comunidades rurales, quienes utilizan el fuego en sus sistemas de produccin, y cmo el uso del fuego puede ayudar a restaurar y a mantener estos ecosistemas.
43443136|Ecological restoration is a cultural choice. I understand our world to be in a crisis of perception: we see ourselves as separate or somehow independent from the natural world. As an artist and a restoration ist, I have always sought to foster a sense of reconnection between human culture and the natural world. I try to help people see how, even in the face of dramatic ecological damage, our individual actions will make a difference. Part of the answer is to return to the source with the tools of the future. Through my art, and specifically the imaging of biodiversity, I work to let the life forms of nature express their own beauty, their character, diversity, adaptation, and resilience. For me, this is also work to restore the role of art as visionary vehicle in human civilization.
43443192|We combined burning and rotational grazing in an effort to promote persistence of recently established native grasses. The experiment took place on a farm in south-central Wisconsin on a cool-season grass pasture that was drill seeded with native warm-season grasses: big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii), Indiangrass (Sorghastrum nutans), and switchgrass (Panicum virgatum). We used a split-plot experimental design to assess native grass persistence undervaluing disturbance treatments (burned, burned-grazed, and grazed). We used a paired t-test to determine if the difference between 2006 and 2007 native grass density was significantly different from zero. Native grass tiller density increased under the burned (202%) and grazed (186%) treatments, but not the burned-grazed (29%) treatment. However, the actual native grass tiller numbers in 2007 were much higher in the burned-only than the grazed-only treatment (80  10 tillers/m and 2  1 tillers/m, respectively). We found no loss to native grass tiller density when rotational grazing was applied to plots in the first year after two years of grazing exclusion with burning. In addition, we found that native grass cover was greatest in the burned treatment but not significantly different in the burned-grazed and grazed treatments. Our results suggest that the combined use of burning and grazing as a management tool for native grass persistence in pastures may be possible with deferred grazing during the establishment phase, but alternative timing, intensity, and types of grazing animals should be tested.
43443038|Investigations into the causes of variation in native bunchgrass distributions in California are constrained by the rarity of extant populations, their highly invaded nature, and their diverse and often unknown historical backgrounds. In addition, the correlates of success in California grassland restoration projects are rarely monitored. While controlling for seeding densities, we investigated correlates of establishment success for a mix of native bunchgrasses seeded into a non-native annual grassland with a history of agriculture and grazing in Yolo County, California. Six native grass speciesblue wildrye (Elymus glaucus), big squirreltail (Elymus multisetus), Idaho fescue (Festuca idahoensis), California melicgrass (Melica californica), purple needlegrass (Nassella pulchra), and Sandberg bluegrass (Poa secunda)were drill seeded in the fall of 1999. In order to minimize recruitment of non-native annual grass seed, the land was prepared with a spring burn and fall application of glyphosate prior to seeding. Through the third growing season, the cover of planted native grasses was significantly greater on north-facing slopes than on slopes with southern aspects. This was likely due to more mesic conditions on such sites rather than reduced competition with non-native plants. In the first growing season, distinct dense patches of filaree (Erodium botrys) became apparent. Native bunchgrasses overall, non-native grasses, and non-native forbs all had significantly less cover inside these patches of filaree. Purple needlegrass was an exception to both of these trends, being insensitive to both aspect and filaree patches. These results reinforce the reputation of purple needlegrass as a species with wide ecological tolerance and excellent restoration potential.
43443293|The removal of non-native species is often an important restoration goal in natural areas, including national parks. There is often a positive correlation between non-native and native plant species richness, so that areas with the greatest number of native species support the greatest number of non-natives. This pattern may create both challenges and opportunities for restoration. Native species may be inadvertently damaged or killed during mechanical or chemical treatments targeted toward non-natives. However, greater numbers of native species may better colonize subsequent openings. We used data from an ongoing active management project in Grand Canyon National Park to test three predictions of plant community response to invasive tamarisk (Tamarix spp.) removal. We investigated patterns of native and nonnative species abundance and richness, compositional shifts, and the relationship between native and non-native species before and after treatments. In general, native species richness and abundance did not increase, but species composition following tamarisk removal tended to become more similar to that in uninvaded stands. Native and non-native species richness and abundance were positively correlated before tamarisk removal. While treatment successfully reduced cover of tamarisk after one to three years, our results suggest that it may not increase richness of native species during the same period. Furthermore, investigating native and non-native species relationships may be a useful tool for exploring hypotheses and consequences of restoration via invasive species removal.
43441124|Exotic plants are invading federal lands at an estimated rate of 1,862 ha each day, reducing the natural diversity many of these places were set aside to protect. Effective invasive species management must be based on thorough knowledge of these species' locations and distributions, modes and rates of spread, potential and known effects, and control methods. We mapped the location and distribution of 50 exotic plant species in two Arizona national monuments using state-ofthe-art GIS and GPS technologies. The Alien Plants Ranking System was used to prioritize species for management and develop an exotic plant management plan for the park units. Other project goals included testing the efficacy of roaming surveys for exotic plant mapping using standards suggested by the North American Weed Management Association and creating a basis for future monitoring of weed populations. Mapping weeds digitally offers many advantages including increased speed and accuracy, enhanced data sharing capabilities, and easy updates, all of which aid in establishing management priorities and providing a baseline for future monitoring efforts.
43440697|Environmental resource gradients affect plant establishment during invasive weed management and ecological restoration. We investigated how hydrology and nitrogen (N) availability influence establishment of native and invasive species along a dry-wet gradient. We hypothesized that 1) emergence and growth would be higher in subirrigated environments than in saturated or dry environments; 2) annuals and invasive exotics would respond more to N availability than late-successional perennials; and 3) N effects would be greatest in subirrigated environments. In the greenhouse, seedling emergence was uniform across dry to subirrigated pots for upland species and across subirrigated to saturated, but not flooded, pots for riparian species. Seedling biomass was greatest in subirrigated environments. Seedling emergence in the field was at or near zero for most species in subirrigated sites. In the greenhouse, biomass increased with N availability, and responses to N were greatest in subirrigated pots. In both experiments, the upland invasive, spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa), responded more to N availability than bluebunch wheatgrass (Agropyron spicatum). However, such differences were not found for the riparian species, possibly due to low emergence. Possible explanations for low emergence in subirrigated field sites include predation by small rodents, which were more active in the transition than upland or wetland areas. Establishment of spotted knapweed and Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense) in riparian sites was limited by poor germination and seedling survival. Once established, growth was good in subirrigated environments, indicating that weeds may invade riparian sites in spite of poor initial establishment, which suggests caution when contemplating ecological restoration practices that increase N availability.
43441335|Lantana (Lontana camara), one of the world's most troublesome invasive weeds, has become a menace in most of the protected areas located in tropical and subtropical belt of India. The lantana-infested landscapes not only are impoverished as habitats of wildlife but also contribute to human-wildlife conflicts owing to diminished ecosystem services. This paper is a case study of successful eradication and restoration of two lantana-invaded sites in Corbett Tiger Reserve, India. A method for eradicating lantana was developed using knowledge about its ecology, and, subsequently, weedfree landscapes were restored to productive grasslands and mixed woodlands using native species. The restoration of these areas to grassland communities has successfully prevented secondary invasions by lantana and other weeds and has enhanced the habitat quality for herbivores whose populations are vital for the survival of top carnivores such as tiger (Panthera tigris corbetti).
43443111|Near the Paricutn volcano in the state of Michoacn, Mxico, agricultural lands were covered with volcanic ash when the volcano erupted multiple times between 1943 and 1952. These lands persist today as barren and mostly devoid of vegetation. Restoration of these lands is limited by high ground surface temperatures during the dry season (close to 70C at noon) and other factors such as damage by herbivores and storm run-off. We used mulch to overcome the main barrier represented by the high ground surface temperatures, which allowed for the reintroduction of the dominant native pine species. When we did not mulch, and particularly during dry years, pine mortality was close to 100%. This led to the unanticipated consequence of a shrub, hierba de golpe (Eupatorium glabratum), establishing in the sites where the planted trees had died. The shrub, although native, precludes the establishment of other native plant species and creates conditions that are even more of a challenge to restoration. The most efficient measure for restoring sites invaded by hierba de golpe is the elimination of the shrubs and with them the layer of volcanic ash. This case study illustrates the importance of approaching restoration as an adaptive management practice because unexpected outcomes are unavoidable, particularly in sites with complex histories of disturbance.
43441304|We consider potential impacts of global climate change for restoration practitioners in Wisconsin through a discussion of restoration and land management at the University of Wisconsin-Madison Arboretum. Created to provide an outdoor research and teaching laboratory for university faculty, staff, and students, the Arboretum has been restoring and managing dynamic examples of the native plant communities of Wisconsin for 75 years. We discuss how climate change might influence historical restoration goals, as well as contemporary issues such as stormwater, extreme precipitation events, and changes in the effectiveness of restoration techniques.
43443110|At 460 hectares, the Paul Sarbanes Environmental Restoration Project at Poplar Island, Talbot County, Maryland, represents the largest "beneficial use" dredged material project of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (a cooperative project with Maryland Port Administration). Begun in 1998, the 15-year restoration project will ultimately consist of roughly 220 ha of uplands and 220 ha of tidal wetland habitats, with limited areas of dike roads, perimeter riprap, and unvegetated mudflats. Wetland restoration began in one small section (or "cell") in 2002, but not all cells will be filled with dredged material until at least 2013. As a major objective of the restoration, six species of waterbirds were identified as "priority species" for Chesapeake Bay: American black duck (Anas rubripes), snowy egret (Egretta thula), cattle egret (Bubulcus ibis), osprey (Pandion haliaetus), common tern (Sterna hirundo), and least tern (5. antillarum). Monitoring of nesting activities of these species from 2002 to 2005 indicated that all species except black ducks colonized the site rapidly. More than 800 pairs of common terns nested in 2003 to 2004. Because of prdation by red fox (Vulpes vulpes) and great horned owl (Bubo virginianus), reproductive success was very low for the terns. Trapping was effective in removing the foxes, and other controls have been applied to opportunistic nesting species including herring gulls (Larus argentatus) and Canada geese (Branta canadensis). An effective public education program on the island has helped address concerns about animal control.
43443164|Intensive campground use at the Grant Grove area of Kings Canyon National Park, California, has compacted the soil and left areas without understory vegetation or tree recruitment. To better inform the restoration of these sites after closure, we tested natural regeneration potential and planting and soil restoration methods. The tested methods included planting with container stock and direct seeding, fencing, and soil treatments of tilling, mulching, and gypsum and humus additions. Container stock had high survivorship (69-100%), while germination and survival from direct seeding was low (0.6-4.1%). Wood chip mulch was beneficial to planting woody species, but detrimental to resident herbaceous species. Plots treated with tilling and gypsum, and humus amendments exhibited highest growth rates of container stock and greatest herbaceous species richness and cover. However, tilling without the other soil treatments reduced herbaceous cover and seedling recruitment (natural and sown). In tilled plots, gypsum treatments and humus treatments often had neutral or detrimental effects individually, but their combination greatly increased the success of direct seeding, growth of container stock, and herbaceous cover and richness. Fencing increased volunteer tree recruitment tenfold compared to outside the plots. Some treatments in this study were beneficial to species of one morphological group but detrimental to another.
43443053|A 0.5-ha Illinois prairie was restored in 1988. By 2005 the site increased in traits indicative of high quality remnant prairies. Weighted Mean Fidelity and the proportion of native species increased over time. Exotic weeds (e.g. smooth brome [Bromus inermis], dandelion [Taraxacum officinale], black medic [Medicago lupulina], and Kentucky bluegrass [Poa pratensis]) became less frequent and high quality species (purple coneflower [Echinacea pallida], purple prairie clover [Dalea purpurea], stiff goldenrod [Solidago rigida], and rattlesnake master [Eryngium yuccifolium]) increased in frequency. After deer hunting began in 1994, stiff goldenrod and rosinweed had smaller proportions of their stems browsed by deer. Mean Coefficient of Conservatism was similar to a local high quality remnant prairie.
43443014|We studied the effect of two years of sawdust addition on the growth of native perennial grasses in a site where we manually removed two introduced nitrogen-fixing shrubs, French broom (Genista monspessulana) and Scotch broom (Cytisus scoparius) in central coastal California. We tested the hypothesis that sawdust addition to soil would reduce plant-available nitrogen levels, and thereby decrease the competitive effect of fast-growing exotic annual grasses on slower-growing native perennial grasses. Sawdust did not alter the competitive interaction between annuals and native perennials: native perennial grass seedlings were greatly suppressed by the presence of annuals and this was not changed by sawdust addition. In the absence of competition with annuals, we observed both direct stimulation and suppression by sawdust on native species. Annual grass biomass did not respond to sawdust addition. Nitrogenxarbon ratios of leaf tissue were similar across all species, suggesting that both annuals and perennials responded similarly to depletion of soil resources. Our results confirm that although it is possible to use sawdust to reduce nitrogen availability in broom-invaded soils, it is difficult to target the species that will benefit.
43441237|In the northern Great Plains, native prairies managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) can be pivotal in conservation of North America's biological diversity. From 2002 to 2006, we surveyed 7,338 belt transects to assess the general composition of mixed-grass and tallgrass prairie vegetation across five "complexes" (i.e., administrative groupings) of national wildlife refuges managed by the Service in North Dakota and South Dakota. Native grasses and forbs were common (mean frequency of occurrence 47%-54%) on two complexes but uncommon (4%-13%) on two others. Conversely, an introduced species of grass, smooth brome (Bromus inermis), accounted for 4 5% to 49% of vegetation on two complexes and another species, Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) accounted for 27% to 36% of the vegetation on three of the complexes. Our data confirm prior suspicions of widespread invasion by introduced species of plants on Service-owned tracts of native prairie, changes that likely stem in part from a common management history of little or no disturbance (e.g., defoliation by grazing or fire). However, variability in the degree and type of invasion among prairie tracts suggests that knowledge of underlying causes (e.g., edaphic or climatic factors, management histories) could help managers more effectively restore prairies. We describe an adaptive management approach to acquire such knowledge while progressing with restoration. More specifically, we propose to use data from inventories of plant communities on Service-owned prairies to design and implement, as experiments, optimal restoration strategies. We will then monitor these experiments and use the results to refine future strategies. This comprehensive, process-oriented approach should yield reliable and robust recommendations for restoration and maintenance of native prairies in the northern Great Plains.
43441265|Summer farewell (Dalea pinnata) is a legume found in upland ecosystems throughout the southeastern United States. Often used in seed mixes for restoration purposes, it represents an opportunity for the emerging native seed industry in this region. Yet its germination characteristics are not well known. Our objective was to assess the germination timing and potential dormancy mechanisms of summer farewell. We specifically addressed the following questions: 1) to what extent do seeds germinate after shedding? 2) do seeds possess physical dormancy? and 3) can germination be enhanced using dormancy-breaking treatments? Summer farewell seeds germinated to a limited extent upon shedding, and most seeds (> 75%) in the population were shed with water-impermeable coats, or physical dormancy. Germination occurred equally well in light or darkness. Remaining ungerminated seeds displayed a high degree of viability (> 90%) after one year of burial. Thus summer farewell seeds are capable of forming soil seed banks. Scarification followed by incubation at constant temperatures yielded high germination. Germination of mechanically scarified seeds was superior to seeds scarified in acid for 5 or 10 minutes and unscarified seeds. However, incubation at 35C may be deleterious. We discuss recommendations for restoration practitioners and seed producers.
43443142|Blue mussels (Mytilus edulis) were transplanted into South Mill Pond, a degraded tidal salt pond in Portsmouth NH. As part of a larger community-based project volunteers helped create three mussel reefs in each of two locations within the pond in May 2001. Restoration project methodology and success were evaluated during the summer of 2001 and again in May 2002 by 1) assessing reef population dynamics (size frequency distribution, density, and movement) and 2) comparing faunal utilization (finfish species and abundance) within the reefs to that in adjacent reference areas. Created reefs showed declines in density after the first month but then increased and showed new recruitment the following year. Reef footprints were dynamic and probably influenced by mussel density as well as local hydrology. Four finfish species were observed: Atlantic silverside (Menidia menidid), mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus), four-spined stickleback (Apeltes quadracus), and three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus). The most common fish in reef and reference areas (silverside and mummichog, respectively) are highly mobile species. Reef areas had greater species diversity per sampling effort than reference areas, but no difference in overall fish abundance was found between adjacent reef and reference areas. Information collected to date indicates that mussel reefs constructed at the pond appear to be functioning as a natural system, acting to improve water quality and provide shelter for small fish and other nektonic and epibenthic invertebrates. In addition, volunteer action garnered city involvement and increased local awareness of the pond as an ecosystem rather than a sewage lagoon. Community awareness along with habitat improvements will increase the long-term prospects for rehabilitation of South Mill Pond.
43441151|The landscape has a dramatic effect on a site's ecological and social function. Landscape context and pattern are important considerations in ecological restoration for their effects on rehabilitation design and ecological function. In Ontario, Canada, there are more than 5,300 active aggregate mining sites, equivalent to a total area of over 70 square kilometers. Rehabilitation of inactive pits is required by law, but rehabilitation efforts rarely attempt to restore ecological function to a site, and even more rarely consider the ecological implications of landscape context. The size, spatial extent, and nonrandom distribution of aggregate extraction sites in Ontario offer opportunities to restore ecological functions through cooperative rehabilitation, where landowners and licensed aggregate extractors try to achieve better ecological outcomes. In order to illustrate how landscape context can make a meaningful contribution to rehabilitation design and ecological restoration of pit and quarry sites in Ontario and in other settings, we review methods of assessing critical aspects of landscape context, including patterns of habitats (mosaics), interpatch movements and dispersal (connectivity and permeability), and the heterogeneity of microclimates (niche diversity). We illustrate the potential of this approach with the example of the Karner blue butterfly. The described project may inform restoration approaches for other land uses and landscape contexts.
43443230|Since 2006, an innovative, multiinstitutional Spanish Master in Ecosystem Restoration (MER) is jointly offered by four major public universities in Madrid. In view of the high student demandabout 900 applications this academic year for only 30 places, a remarkable 75% rate of professional poststudy employment in a period of economic crisis, and the high number (> 40) of prestigious organizations involved in the program, we consider the MER program, although still young, to be very promising for the long term. We explain the process to create the MER and achieve the results obtained thus far. We describe its organization, report its vital statistics in terms of students, and identify some strengths and weaknesses observed to date. The MER program has evolved as a network of knowledge and experience that links universities, lecturers, researchers, students, private and public companies, NGOs, and administration centers. Our aim is to help other groups that may want to launch similar graduate-level ecological restoration degree programs.
43443168|Forest stand diversification in terms of plant species and spacing of plantings is critical to restoring components of native forests, reducing risks of insect and disease outbreaks, and providing a variety of habitats for native birds and other forest animals. We share the results of experimentation with reforestation practices to achieve more diverse upland forests in northeastern Minnesota. We also share the results of a study to determine the impact of site preparation (rock raking) and seedling "release" (removing competing surrounding vegetation after two years) on survival and height of 19 native trees and shrubs. After five years, seedling survival across the 19 species ranged from 31% to 94%, with mean of 72%. Survival was higher for sites receiving the preparation treatment (76%) than for those not receiving the treatment (68%). Site preparation significantly increased seedling height for eight species. In year three of the study we removed nearby competing vegetation (release treatment), which resulted in significantly greater seedling height for two species and less height growth for three species after two years. We discuss the value of increases in survival and height in the context of overall forest management objectives and other management strategies to diversify forest species and structure.
43441267|Public support plays a critical role in the completion and long-term success of ecological restoration projects. However, gaining this support has been a challenge in some cases. Local citizens have not always responded positively to restoration despite its touted benefits. In this article, I apply a theory of human behavior, motivation, and cognition called the Reasonable Person Model (RPM) in order to show how participation can be an effective part of restoration efforts. Using two case studies from Chicago, I discuss some of the issues that arise in restoration projects and how RPM may address them. This model identifies three important human needs, which when met contribute to more cooperative, reasonable behavior: cognitive map-building, meaningful action, and being effective. I demonstrate how RPM can be used to explain people's reactions to restoration efforts and why participation works better in some cases than in others. I also present strategies based on RPM to promote more effective participation in restoration efforts.
43443108|We undertook a restoration project on 1.5 ha of a vegetated sand dune leveled in order to build an airstrip for an oilfield on the Arctic Coastal Plain of northern Alaska. We seeded Nortran tufted hairgrass (Deschampsia caespitosa), a relatively non-palatable native grass, to rapidly develop a ground cover that would stabilize the sandy substrate but not attract wildlife. We transplanted 4,400 willow (Salix spp.) cuttings and 11,500 sprigs of American dunegrass (Leymus mollis) and seeded two forb species to increase species diversity and the vertical structure of the plant canopy. Total live cover increased to 73.9% after three years, limiting wind erosion to less than 5% of the treated area. The seeded and transplanted grasses and the naturally colonizing wideleaf polargrass (Arctagrostis latifolia) accounted for most (66.2%) of the plant cover. Survivorship of transplanted willows after 3 years was 26-34%, and we observed annual incremental increases in cover of willows, seeded forbs, and other naturally colonizing species. We identified 31 vascular plant species in the treated area after three years. Of these, 15 were present before the airstrip was constructed, and 19 occurred in natural sand dune ecosystems in the region. These results demonstrated the feasibility of cultivating locally collected native plant materials to control erosion of a disturbed sand dune in the Arctic and to initiate a longer-term process of ecological restoration.
43443073|Invasive exotic plants often threaten the establishment of desirable plants in vegetation restoration projects. There is little understanding of the role of intraspecific genetic variation in resident natives in allowing or resisting invasions. Spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa [= C. stoebe]) is one of the most abundant invaders in western North American grasslands. We hypothesized that there was genetic variation in local populations of bluebunch wheatgrass (Agropyron spicatum [= Pseudoroegneria spicata]), a dominant native, for resistance to spotted knapweed and that we could identify resistant wheatgrass plants by locating isolated survivors in knapweed-infested grasslands. We planted clones of 12 "survivor" wheatgrass plants, four haphazardly chosen "unexposed" plants from uninvaded grasslands, and one cultivar (Goldar) selected for vigorous growth in a knapweed-dominated field and followed survival, growth, and reproduction for three years. We also raised clones of these same families in pots with knapweed in a complete randomized block design. Size, growth, and reproductive effort of wheatgrass plants varied among families in the field study where canopy cover of knapweed was more than 30 percent. Much of the variation among wheatgrass families was attributed to the superior performance of Coldar, which had greater growth, fecundity, and knapweed suppression compared with unexposed families in the field and garden studies. Our strategy for identifying knapweed-tolerant genotypes was ineffective; survivor families did not grow better than unexposed controls in the field or garden study. Our conclusion: developing local cultivars similar to Goldar by selecting for vigor and productivity among wild, local collections may be the best way to develop restoration cultivars that tolerate and suppress invasive weeds.
43443265|Mangrove loss in Mexico led to the development of different recovery programs focused on building and maintaining greenhouses, reforestation, and the construction of drainage systems along coastal roads to reestablish surface water flows. However, these recovery strategies have not been as successful as expected because they were not based on an evaluation of environmental characteristics required for mangrove development in the context of new hydrological and sedimentary conditions. The studies performed over the last ten years by the mangrove group at Centro de Investigacin y de Estudios Avanzados (CINVESTAV), in collaboration with other institutions, resulted in a conceptual framework that we present here as a methodological approach for the ecological restoration of mangroves in the Yucatn Peninsula. The conceptual framework is based on the relationships among the geomorphology, hydrology, and structural and functional characteristics of mangroves that are associated with the environmental services offered by these ecosystems. The methodological approach is fundamentally concerned with the particular characteristics of the karstic environmental setting of the Yucatn Peninsula as well as social and economic aspects of restoration. This approach to mangrove restoration includes stages for planning, implementing, and monitoring mangrove restoration programs in karstic environments. La prdida de manglares en Mxico ha llevado al desarrollo de diferentes programas para abordar su recuperacin. En la Pennsula de Yucatn estos programas se han centrado principalmente en la construccin y mantenimiento de invernaderos, la reforestacin y la construccin de sistemas de alcantarillas en las carreteras costeras para restablecer los flujos de las aguas superficiales. Sin embargo, estas estrategias de recuperacin no tuvieron el xito que se esperaba, principalmente porque no se basaron en la caracterizacin ambiental como un criterio para identificar las condiciones hidrolgicas y de sedimentos necesarias para el desarrollo de manglares. Los estudios realizados durante los ltimos diez aos por el grupo manglares en el Centro de Investigacin y de Estudios Avanzados (CINVESTAV), en colaboracin con otras instituciones, han dado lugar a un marco conceptual que se presenta aqu como un enfoque metodolgico para la restauracin ecolgica de los manglares en la Pennsula de Yucatn. El marco conceptual se basa en las relaciones que hay entre la geomorfologia, la hidrologa y caractersticas estructurales y funcionales de los manglares, y que estn asociados con los servicios ambientales que ofrecen estos ecosistemas. El enfoque metodolgico es fundamentalmente relacionado a las caractersticas particulares del entorno krstico de la Pennsula de Yucatn, as como aspectos sociales y econmicos de la restauracin. Este enfoque de la restauracin de manglares incluye las etapas de la planificacin, implementacin y seguimiento de los programas de restauracin de manglares en ambientes krsticos.
43443055|Recovery of a "green corridor" in the lower Tarim River is underway, following extensive agricultural development and irrigation beginning in the 1950s that lowered water tables in the river basin and killed native willow poplar or Euphrates poplar (Populus euphratica) trees. In 2000, a groundwater recharge project began to restore vegetation in the green corridor. After seven water discharges (diverted from a nearby lake), groundwater rose from 6 meters to 2 meters near Taitema Lake and vegetation began to recover. The overall restoration of the green corridor and the Tarim River depends on long-term, comprehensive management of the river basin. The main hydrological challenges are to mitigate water loss through seepage and evaporation by improving structures such as dikes, water gates, and irrigation canals. Management efforts should also consider river regulation, optimal water allocation, water conservation, water price policy, and grassland improvement, rather than just water transfers.
43443013|I report on previous research and the results of several multi-year projects that point to the effectiveness of using deep 1-gallon container plantings rather than liner, 1-gallon or 15-gallon container plantings for habitat restoration of deep/tap-rooted species in xeriphytic Mediterranean climatic areas. I highlight two recent projects to demonstrate the higher survival and growth resulting from the use of deep 1-gallon plantings for three deep/taprooted specieslemonadeberry (Rhus integrifolia), laurel sumac (Malosma laurina), and California live oak (Quercus agrifolia)  when compared with liner and 15-gallon plantings. Less expensive chaparral shrub liner plantings are shown to produce low field survival rates that negate initial cost savings when compared with deep 1-gallon plantings. Oak seedlings grown in 15-gallon containers, while much taller at planting than deep 1-gallon oak plantings, are shown to not justify their substantial additional production time and planting costs since deep 1-gallon plantings can surpass 15-gallon container growth rates in less than two years. While no long-term comparisons are made between standard and deep 1-gallon plantings of deep/tap-rooted species, I make a case for the greater likelihood of conventional 1-gallon tap-rooted plants developing detrimental root-binding under standard nursery growing conditions.
43441264|With shrinking habitats, weed invasions, and climate change, repeated surveys are becoming increasingly important for rare plant conservation and ecological restoration. We often need to relocate historical sites or provide locations for newly restored sites. Georeferencing is the technique of giving geographic coordinates to the location of a site. Georeferencing has been done historically using verbal descriptions or field maps that accompany voucher collections. New digital technology gives us more exact techniques for mapping and storing location information. Error still exists, however, and even georeferenced locations can be uncertain, especially if error information is not included with the observation. We review the concept of uncertainty in georeferencing and compare several institutional database systems for cataloging error and uncertainty with georeferenced locations. These concepts are widely discussed among geographers, but ecologists and restorationists need to become more aware of issues related to uncertainty to improve our use of spatial information in field studies.
43441123|In this study, we assessed the restoration of a riparian wetland in a moderately incised glacial till valley of the Midwest where drainage pipes were either removed or disabled in 2000 and 2004. The study determined whether wetland hydrology was restored at the site and whether former drainage pipe locations still influenced wetland hydrology after restoration ended. Water table level measurements in 2004 and 2005 indicate that wetland hydrology has been restored in areas of the riparian zone with poorly drained loamy soil. These areas are characterized by an average water table depth of 10 cm below ground surface (BGS) for approximately six months of the year and a water level above 30 cm BGS for at least 14 consecutive days during the growing season. High-resolution water table measurements during and after precipitation events did not indicate that former drainage pipe locations affect the hydrology of the site either by allowing a quick water table drawdown or by acting as preferential conduits for groundwater during precipitation events. Overall, data indicate that wetland hydrology was restored and that the technique of cutting the drainage pipes into several sections or removing them by hand and compacting the disturbed soil back into place without adding any extra material was an appropriate restoration technique for this site.
43440720|Understanding the historic fire regime is essential before restoring fire to an ecosystem. Historical ecology provides a means to use both quantitative and qualitative data from different disciplines to address questions about how the traditional ecological management practices of indigenous peoples influenced prairie and savanna ecosystems in the past. In this article, we evaluated paleoecological, archaeological, ethnographic, and ethnobotanical information about the Upper Chehalis River basin prairies of southwestern Washington to better understand the extent to which influenced prairie distribution, composition, and availability of wild plant food resources. We also surveyed areas that had been burned at differing frequencies to test whether frequent fires increase camas (Camassia quamash) productivity. Preliminary results support the hypothesis that camas productivity increases with fire-return intervals of one to two years.
43443295|Over the past couple of decades, 2,200,000 ha of wetlands and grasslands have been restored in the prairie pothole region, USA. However, many restored and remnant wetlands in the region are dominated by two invasive plant species, reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea) and cattail (Typha spp.), which form dense monotypic stands. These restorations are usually evaluated as habitat for waterfowl and other birds; however, there is a need to evaluate their success for invertebrates. Odonata (dragonflies and damselflies) are ideal organisms to include in our evaluations of restored wetland habitat quality for both ecological and practical reasons. To examine the association between vegetation structure and odonate assemblages in shoreline vegetation of prairie pothole wetlands, we compared odonate richness and abundance in dense, monotypic stands to that of vegetation with diverse vertical structure. We also observed the use of these two different habitats by odonate species classified as "of conservation concern" in Iowa. Odonate species richness was substantially greater in the mixed-structure vegetation than in monotypic stands. A similar trend was found in odonate species with a "vulnerable" or "uncommon" conservation status. The number of occurrences of species of conservation concern was four times greater in mixed than in monotypic vegetation. A comparison of our data to those collected in the 1990s for one monotypic vegetation site further supported this conclusion. Many odonate species are targets for conservation and can readily benefit from wetland restoration and reconstruction if the sites are managed for proper vegetation structure.
43443258|One of the emerging motivations for community engagement in ecological restoration is the recovery of plant and animal species, subspecies, and stocks historically utilized as foods. New alliances of conservation biologists, ecological restorationists, native food activists, and chefs are joining forces for these collaborative conservation and restoration initiatives. The Renewing America's Food Traditions (RAFT) Alliance is one such collaboration, and it is engaged in identifying and recovering wild foods that have historically been depleted by a variety of pressures. It has identified at least 267 wild species, subspecies, stocks, or ecotypes of place-based foods at risk in North America. Of these, 43 may be broadly classified as wild game (including 12 birds, 20 mammals, and 10 reptiles), 82 as wild-foraged plants, 40 as shellfish, and 103 as fish. Of 267 place-based heritage foods in the RAFT database, fewer than a dozen have been extirpated as species, subspecies, or populations, but 45 (17%) are the subjects of genetic recovery and habitat restoration as noted in previous articles and abstracts featured in this journal. Taking into account all the restoration efforts for place-based foods at risk that have been reported in this journal and in recent oral communications, a minimum of 38% of North America's wild foods at risk may be on the way to recovery at one or more sites. We also discuss four cases studies of collaborative efforts toward gastroeconomic and biocultural restoration.
43441333|Grassland birds are one of the most endangered taxa in temperate North America. Because many species declines have been linked to habitat fragmentation and loss, large-scale prairie restoration projects have the potential to provide critical habitat for these declining species. We examined how the structure of restored grassland habitat changes through time and how diversity and community composition of grassland birds respond to these changes. Our study was completed at Neal Smith National Wildlife Refuge, a large-scale prairie restoration in central Iowa. Vegetation composition and structure were measured at 42 restored grassland plots throughout the refuge in 2007. Birds were surveyed at these locations from 1994 to 2007. Survey points were sorted into five categories (out of crop rotation for 1, 2, 3, 4-6, and > 6 y). In the initial phases of restoration, species such as horned larks, red-winged blackbirds, and killdeer were abundant. Other species such as common yellowthroats and dickcissels were more common in established restored points. Henslow's sparrows appeared only at survey points that were out of crop rotation for more than 6 years. Diversity peaked in survey points that were 2-3 years out of crop rotation and points that were more than 6 years out of rotation. Community composition shifted through the chronosequence of prairie plantings. Changes in diversity and shifts in community composition can be explained by changes in vegetative structure. Our results suggest that managing for a variety of restored prairie stages will best maintain the highest levels of avian diversity and abundance.
43441238|Haymaking and seed-stripping are frequently utilized methods of obtaining seeds for use in ecological restoration. We sought to measure the efficiency of these two techniques in different grassland types in terms of the seed mix obtained compared to the seed present in the vegetation. Haymaking and harvesting with a pull-type seed stripper were compared in two different types of eastern Italian Alp meadows: a tall oats (Arrhenatherum elatius) meadow (grass height 70-100 cm) and a low fescue-bentgrass (Festuca nigrescensAgrostis capillaris) meadow (grass height 35-65 cm). The percentage of seed obtained from haymaking was similar to that obtained from seed-stripping (about 50% of the seed in the standing vegetation). Nevertheless, haymaking efficiency differed less among the two grassland types (with reference to the harvested seeds number per fertile stem, 39% in the tallgrass and 60% in the shortgrass vegetation) compared to the efficiency of seed-stripping (20% and 73%, respectively). With haymaking, the seed mix obtained in both meadows was similar to that present in the standing vegetation before harvesting. With seed-stripping, the similarity was high only in the shortgrass meadow, where the stripping action of the brush affected the whole herbaceous layer, and the downward motion of the brush allowed for effective harvesting. Both techniques were more efficient in the shortgrass meadow than in the tallgrass vegetation.
43443195|As our understanding of the importance of natural lakeshores in providing wildlife habitat and water quality protection has grown, so too has interest in restoring degraded lakeshore. Advances in lakeshore restoration practice have been hindered by a lack of field-based evaluations to guide decisionmaking and by gaps in our knowledge of how to revegetate littoral and shoreline areas. To understand how the choices practitioners are making affect restoration outcomes, we surveyed 22 lakeshore restoration projects in the Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota (USA), metropolitan area that ranged in age from 1 to 6 years. We conducted comprehensive, floristic surveys of the vegetation found on each site and investigated site maintenance practices. We found that 29% of species planted in the upland zone of the lakeshore reliably established; long-term protection of the site from adjacent land uses improved the likelihood that planted vegetation would endure. The greatest revegetation failure occurred along the shoreline; 44% of species planted did not establish at this land-water transitional zone. Approximately 30% of the aquatic zone restorations did not contain any planted vegetation, although ten aquatic plant species were found to establish dependably on at least some of the remaining sites. In aquatic and transition zones, vegetative composition was most clearly related to exposure to wave activity. This survey suggests two restoration practices that should be improved to increase the likelihood of lakeshore restoration success: 1) choosing plants so they match the prevailing light and flooding conditions within sites; and 2) providing both upland and aquatic protection.
43443226|With the loss, fragmentation, and degradation of natural wetlands, habitat restoration and management are becoming increasingly important tools in the conservation of many turtle species. The rare Blanding's turtle lives primarily in wetlands but requires well-drained and sparsely vegetated soil for nesting. If traditionally used nesting habitat becomes unsuitable due to vegetation overgrowth, females may travel farther with an increased risk of collection, predation, and mortality from cars. At a habitat creation site in Dutchess County, New York, we examined the success and cost-effectiveness of three methods of nesting habitat managementtilling, mowing, and weedingon replicated 5 m  7 m plots. Using radiotelemetry, we followed female turtles throughout the 2006 and 2008 nesting seasons. Nesting turtles preferred tilled plots to weeded or mowed plots. Our work suggests that tilling plots can be a successful and cost-effective means of managing nesting habitat.
43443069|The continuing development of the science of restoration is muddled by unclear and inconsistent use of the term "success." In recent issues of two journals, Restoration Ecology and Ecological Engineering, 116 papers employed the term to predict outcomes, judge outcomes, describe criteria for judging projects, or refer to an ecosystem attribute, all in the restoration context. Only ten papers used "failure." In this article I argue that ecologists can communicate with greater clarity and objectivity by omitting or clarifying the word success when publishing in the scientific literature. Many uses can easily be dropped (for example, compliance success can become compliance, and establishment success can be establishment). A common term, "restoration success" would be clearer if replaced with more specific terms (for example, project completion, achieving dense plant cover, supporting high species richness, or colonization by target species). At minimum, authors can define the term and use it consistently. When meant as a value judgment, it would help to say, "In my opinion, the project was a success" (or failure) and then specify on what basis the judgment was made. Thus, I recommend abstinence, substitution, and clarification of the term success to aid communication and help restoration ecology mature as a science.
43443292|We evaluated the ecological success of the manual removal of Carpobrotus species, a putative hybrid complex of a South African perennial mat-forming plant, by comparing treated, noninvaded, and invaded plots across coastal Andaluca in southern Spain. As a measure of the management effectiveness, we quantified the density of Carpobrotus seedlings and resprouts in treated plots one year after treatment. Response of the plant community to removal was assessed by comparing native species richness, cover, diversity, and species composition among treatments. Removal greatly reduced to a great extent Carpobrotus density. However, successful control will require repeated hand-pulling treatments. Treated plots had a significant increase in species richness, especially annual plants, compared to invaded plots, but both had the same native plant cover and diversity. We found similar species composition between removal and noninvaded plots, indicating that revegetation is not necessary. Long-term monitoring is necessary to determine whether these observed patterns of community response are transient or stable through succession.
43443227|Models have become a key tool for effectively forecasting the benefits of restoration projects, yet they are often too complicated and inaccessible to resource managers for practical use. A desktop numeric model was developed for resources managers to estimate the benefits of nutrients and sediments introduced into coastal marshes in Louisiana and to improve the predictability of coastal restoration alternatives. In the model, nutrient benefits are based on the cumulative volume of water introduced by an average annual flow  rate, the average total nitrogen and phosphorus concentration of the source water, the nutrient requirements of the plants based upon the annual plant production rate per unit area, and the proportion of nutrients retained in the system. Sediment benefits are based upon the cumulative volume of water introduced by the average annual flow, total suspended solid concentration, bulk density of the receiving marsh area, average depth of the receiver area, and the retention of material introduced into the system. The sum of nutrient and sediment benefits represents a gross change that is then applied to adjust the annual land change rate. Model applications indicate that volume, concentration, and retention of materials tend to be the most important factors in determining the efficiency of marsh building. Sites closest to the main flow of a river, where material concentrations are highest, are capable of forming land at higher rates; however, off-river sites with more than 50% preexisting marsh vegetation can potentially rebuild at comparable rates because of higher retention efficiencies. Lowest rates of land development are in off-river sites with highly degraded marsh, and new delta formations in deep open water.
43443170|The ecological benefits of a roadside native perennial grass stand are compromised when invasive species become established. We evaluated the potential to regenerate existing native perennial grass stands populated with yellow starthistle (Centaurea solstitialis) on a roadside planting in the lowland hills of the interior Coast Range of northern California. The experiment was designed to determine the effects of mowing, burning, or herbicide spraying, alone and in combination, on the vegetative cover and density of native perennial grasses and C. solstitialis. The study site contained blue wildrye (Elymus glaucus) and purple needlegrass (Nassella pulchra) as well as solstitialis. Burn, herbicide, and mow treatments were applied in spring 2004. After one year, solstitialis cover was less than 2% in all treatments that included spraying and in two years, solstitialis was 2% or less in all treatments except burned plots (8%) and control plots (16%). By the end of two years, percent cover and activity (i.e., growth and dormancy) of native perennial grasses were significantly greater for management treatments that included at least two of the tested vegetation control techniques. This study suggests that a combination of vegetation control techniques is necessary to nearly eliminate solstitialis and increase late summer cover and activity of native perennial grasses.
43441298|Hawaiian dry forests currently occupy a small fraction of their former range, and worldwide tropical dry forests are one of the most human-altered systems. Many small-scale projects have been successful in restoring native dry forests in abandoned pastures and degraded woodlands by outplanting after invasive species removal, but this is a costly approach. In this project we tested forest restoration techniques involving broadcasting seeds pretreated to enhance germination and applying herbicide to reduce non-native grass competition. We compared three treatments: broadcast seeding, herbicide, and broadcast seeding combined with herbicide. After two years our study results suggest that broadcast seeding and the favorable microclimate created by eliminating invasive grasses through herbicide application may increase native seed germination and survival and promote higher species diversity.
43440718|This article describes the natural re-establishment of south Florida slash pine (Pinus elliottii var. densa) on former farmlands within Everglades National Park. Restoration of these farmlands involves removal of all existing vegetation and underlying disturbed soils, followed by natural recruitmentthere is no planting or seeding. Four years after restoration, 3,013 seedlings greater than 4 inches (10 cm) in height occurred on the 31-acre (12.5-ha) site. The majority of seedlings were within 82 feet (25 m) of an undisturbed rockland pine habitat and at elevations of 3.5 feet (1.1 m) or higher. Ground elevation affected both mortality rates and growth. Seedlings at lower elevations had higher mortality rates and slower growth rates during the first three years. Hydrological conditions, which are related to ground elevation, appear to affect pine seedlings in two ways. First, surface water tends to cause higher mortality of recently germinated pine seedlings at lower ground elevations and slow the initial growth of the surviving seedlings. Second, at higher elevations, the depth to the water table appears to limit germination.
43441296|The Palo Verde marsh restoration was performed in Costa Rica to reduce invasive Typha domingensis stands. The invasion of this cattail in the 1980s decreased the habitat quality, and thousands of waterbirds that used this seasonal marsh were not returning. In 2002, the Organization for Tropical Studies decided to manage the marsh using a tractor with angle-ironpaddle wheels to crush cattail. We evaluated the land cover changes in response to the prescribed management activities through GIS and vegetation-assessment analysis. Crushing activities started in July 2002. We defined three management plots: A and B) with crushing activities for different lengths of time and C) the control plot with passive management. We evaluated wetland cover changes, richness, and dominance of plant species in the three plots. We found that owing to management activities 1) cattail cover area decreased from 35% to 9% (Plot A) and from 62% to 7% (Plot B), while in Plot it remained almost constant (always greater than 60%); 2) the area of total live vegetation including cattail decreased, giving way to open water and bare ground; 3) plant species richness was higher in the crushed plots than in the control plot; 4) cattail dominance decreased and more species were sharing the marsh area in managed plots than in the control plot; and 5) cattail cover was negatively related to species richness. We recommend continuing the control of cattail by crushing in order to rehabilitate the marsh and conserve its biodiversity.
43440698|The differences between ecological restoration and other conservation and landscape management practices can be subtle or dramatic. I examine the basic tenets of ecological restoration and discuss ways that other practices could begin to achieve the goals of an ecological restoration projectthe use of native species in an ecological community setting; recontouring of land to original site conditions; an emulation of historic reference sites; the use of local, natural materials for hardscaping; and many others. I also strongly encourage the use of the Society for Ecological Restoration International's Primer on Ecobgical Restoration and their Guidelines for Constructing and Managing Ecological Restoration Projects. Finally, I point out that there are numerous situations in which ecological restoration is impossible and should not be attempted. The best thing to do in these cases is to accept that fact, do the best job you can, and describe the project for whatever it isjust don't call it ecological restoration.
43443037|Choosing plant materials for each desired species is often one of the most difficult steps in developing a restoration plan. The Restoration Gene Pool concept was developed to clarify the options available to the ecological restoration practitioner in terms of plant materials. We present a decision-making flowchart incorporating the issues delineated in the Restoration Gene Pool concept. We intend to provide practitioners with a framework to make objective and defensible plant materials choices in keeping with the objectives and philosophy of the restoration project. The flowchart consists of a series of boxes with single or multiple statements to be judged as true or false. The statements deal with issues such as genetic identity, plant metapopulation, functional guild, ecoregion, invasive weed presence, site soil and climate, endangered species presence, commercial seed availability, seed contracting potential, and availability of material bred for improved stress tolerance. Implementing the flowchart is a straightforward way to apply the Restoration Gene Pool concept to a particular project, but we encourage each practitioner to personalize the flowchart to make it as practical as possible for the situations that she or he most often encounters.
43443112|A New England salt marsh undergoing tidal restoration was manipulated to improve halophyte seed dispersal and encourage the expansion of salt marsh plant communities. I created ten openings (150 m) in an area of dead freshwater shrubs and common reed (Phragmites australis), which had been killed by saltwater inundation during tidal restoration. The dead plants presented a physical barrier to the upstream movement of waterborne seeds from halophyte species. Five of the openings were extended to the edge of the adjacent recovering salt marsh, providing a clear passageway into the plots cleared of barrier vegetation. Another five remained as isolated clearings and five uncut plots served as controls. The establishment of salt marsh plants was greatly enhanced by removing the barrier vegetation. While plots directly connected to the salt marsh yielded the highest numbers of new halophytes, isolated clearings also had a beneficial effect. These responses suggest that barrier vegetation removal can facilitate seed dispersal, colonization, and succession in a salt marsh habitat, and provides an effective alternative to standard restorative approaches such as artificial seeding and plantng.
43443232|We describe the process leading to the creation of the Cooperative of Reforestation Workers of Far Southern Bahia (COOPLANTAR), a cooperative that specializes in restoration of the Atlantic Forest in the Monte Pascoal-Pau Brasil Ecological Corridor in southern Bahia, Brazil, and provides job and income for members of local impoverished communities. We discuss the achievements of the cooperative, difficulties it has faced, and its prospects for future sustainability and expansion.
43443056|Interactions among component plant species during establishment can affect restoration outcomes. In a seven-year study, I tested the effect of seed mixes of varied species identity and richness on the rate of establishment and spread of four native prairie species: little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium), Canada wildrye (Elymus canadensis), purple prairie clover (Dalea purpurea), and purple coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia). Percentage cover of species differed among years, but there were no effects of seeding as monocultures vs. treatments of 115 additional native prairie species. By the sixth year, mean cover of little bluestem peaked at 39 percent and Canada wildrye cover peaked at 25 percent,, but purple prairie clover and purple coneflower never exceeded 4 percent cover. Canada wildrye, however, showed a treatment by year interaction in which its cover was lower within the most species-rich treatments in years five through seven. For some prairie species, the number of species added to the seed mix may make no apparent difference to establishment and persistence. For others, Canada wildrye, for example, sowing the species in species-rich mixtures may negatively effect establishment.
43443070|Long-term reductions in invasive plant species are few, and studies documenting the response of plant communities to such reductions are equally rare. We quantified plant species richness and cover during a nine-year period at a grassland site in central Colorado where the introduction of biological control insects reduced the invasive non-native forb diffuse knapweed (Centaurea diffusa). This reduction opened up 25 percent of the relative plant cover for other plant species. Based upon repeated inventories of plant species from four transects at the site we found no changes in native or nonnative plant species richness. Although we documented a modest increase from 2.4 percent to 8.6 percent in the relative cover of native forbs as knapweed declined, we observed no significant shifts in the relative cover of total native and total non-native vegetation. Two introduced grasses, field brome (Bromus arvensis [= B. japonicus]) and intermediate wheatgrass (Thinopyrum intermedium) showed significant increases. Native warm-and cool-season grasses at the site were unable to exploit the vacuum left by the decline of the knapweed. We found little evidence of native grassland restoration following the reduction of a non-indigenous, invasive plant. Our findings support the conclusion that the reduction of a regionally abundant, non-native plant species alone is not sufficient to promote restoration of the formerly dominant native plant species, and that further management activities are necessary.
43443269|Although tropical deciduous forest (TDF) is the most widespread tropical forest in Mexico, knowledge on its regeneration and restoration ecology is still scarce. Here, we compare the diversity of TDF trees and shrubs having published propagation protocols with the total diversity of tree and shrub species recorded in a survey of 20 sites in Mexico, and we review data on survival of plants transplanted to disturbed sites. A large proportion of propagated species are leguminous, with few or no published reports on 11 diverse and widespread families, which account for 264 species. Data are insufficient for plant performance on disturbed sites, and therefore it is not possible at present to discuss if the large variations in survival are related to different disturbances regimes, climatic variations, soil characteristics, or plant quality. Research on these topics must be encouraged and made available to improve the extent and achievements of ecological restoration programs. Aunque el bosque tropical caducifolio (BTC) es el bosque tropical con mayor distribucin en Mxico, el conocimiento sobre su regeneracin y ecologa de la restauracin es an escaso. En este artculo comparamos los protocolos de propagacin publicados de rboles y arbustos de BTC con la diversidad de stos registrada en un estudio de 20 sitios de BTC en Mxico; revisamos tambin datos de supervivencia de plantas trasplantadas a sitios perturbados. Una alta proporcin de las especies propagadas son leguminosas, con muy pocos o ningn reporte publicado de 11 familias muy diversas y con una amplia distribucin, que contienen 264 especies. Los datos de desempeo de plantas en sitios perturbados son insuficientes y no permiten discernir si las grandes variaciones reportadas en la supervivencia se relacionan con diferentes regmenes de disturbio, variaciones climticas, caractersticas del suelo o calidad de las plantas. La investigacin en estos tpicos debe ser fomentada y difundida para mejorar la extensin y los logros de los programas de restauracin ecolgica.
43443194|Whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) has been declining across much of its range in North America because of the combined effects of mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae) epidemics, fire exclusion policies, and widespread exotic blister rust infections. Whitebark pine seed is dispersed by a bird, the Clark's nutcracker (Nucifraga columbiana), which caches in open, pattern-rich landscapes created by fire. This study was initiated in 1993 to investigate the effects of various restoration treatments on tree populations, fuel dynamics, and vascular plant cover on five sites in the U. S. northern Rocky Mountains. The objective of this study was to restore whitebark pine ecosystems using treatments that emulate the native fire regimeprimarily combinations of prescribed fire, silvicultural cuttings, and fuel enhancement cuttings. The main effects assessed included tree mortality, fuel consumption, and vegetation response measured just prior to the treatment, one year after the treatment(s), and five years posttreatment. While all treatments that included prescribed fire created suitable nutcracker caching habitat, with many birds observed caching seed in the burned areas, there has yet to be significant regeneration in whitebark pine. All burn treatments resulted in high mortality in both whitebark pine and subalpine fir (> 40%). Fine woody fuel loadings marginally decreased after fire, but coarse woody debris more than doubled because of falling snags. Vascular species decreased in cover by 20% to 80% and remained low for five years. While the treatments were successful in creating conditions that favor whitebark pine regeneration, the high level of blister rust mortality in surrounding seed sources has reduced available seed, which then forced the nutcracker to reclaim most of the cached seed. Manual planting of whitebark pine seedlings is required to adequately restore these sites. A set of management guidelines is presented to guide restoration efforts.
43443169|In 1999, McHenry County Conservation District returned 2.5 km of Nippersink Creek to its original meandering course, after the stream had been channelized in 1951. The District graded the banks to an average slope of 7:1, and used coconut fiber matting and large rock to slow bank erosion. Natural Resource Management crews installed over 150,000 wetland plants along the stream edges and lower banks. Using cross-sectional elevation surveys, we followed four years of change in this newly meandered channel. In addition, we investigated the relationship of the modern stream to relict meander scars left in the nearby stream valley. We found that, despite erosion control measures, the stream continues to undercut its banks. Rates of lateral migration are much less than in unaltered sections of stream. Even so, bank erosion remains a problem because the modern stream is entrenched about 60 cm below the relict meanders. As the stream migrates laterally, the tall cut banks collapse into the water, reducing water quality. In response to these findings, McHenry County Conservation District installed two gravel riffles to raise the water level by approximately 60 cm over a 0.8 km reach of the stream.
43443267|We established a forest restoration project at the Lagunas de Montebello National Park (LMNP), Chiapas, southern Mexico, a biologically important area severely impacted by surrounding human settlements. In September 2003, 3,030 saplings of 16 tree species were planted in eight 2,500 m plots. Survival and growth were assessed regularly and analyzed as a function of soil conditions, vegetative cover, and successional group of planted species (early, mid-, and late successional). After 36 months of evaluation, the highest survival was recorded in early (66.4%  4.7%) and mid-successional species (65.1 %  3.2%); survival of late successional species was considerably lower (24.1 %  4.7%). Plant growth varied among successional groups and between response variables (maximum height and basal stem diameter). In all species, growth was positively related to basal stem diameter; in nine of the planted species, we observed considerable leaf/branch loss or stem death. Forest restoration with native trees at LMNP is still at an early stage, yet it appears feasible using fast-growing species, such as sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua), oaks (Quercus spp.), and candleberry (Morella cerifera). The establishment of late-successional species like wild cherry (Prunus brachybotrya, P. lundelliana), pajalt (Synardisia venosa), and estoraque (Styrax magnus) is more limited and requires preexisting plant cover that can be provided by pioneer species. Establecimos un proyecto de restauracin forestal en el Parque Nacional Lagunas de Montebello, Chiapas, Mxico (PNLM), un rea de alta importancia biolgica y marginacin humana. En septiembre de 2003 se plantaron 3,030 individuos de 16 especies de rboles en ocho parcelas de 2,500 m. Se evaluaron peridicamente su supervivencia y crecimiento en funcin de la calidad del suelo, la cobertura vegetal y la afinidad sucesional de las especies (tempranas, intermedias o tardas). Despus de 36 meses de evaluacin, la mayor supervivencia se registr en las especies tempranas (66.4%  4.7 %) y en las sucesionales intermedias (65.1 %  3.2 %), y en menor grado en las especies tardas (24.1 %  4.7%). El crecimiento de las plantas vari de acuerdo con la afinidad sucesional y entre las variables consideradas (altura o dimetro). En todas las especies el crecimiento se relacion positivamente con el dimetro basal de las plantas; en nueve de las 16 especies plantadas se observ prdida de hojas y ramas o muerte de los tallos. El restablecimiento de la diversidad de rboles nativos en el PNLM es an limitado, pero se facilita con la incorporacin de especies pioneras de rpido crecimiento como Liquidambar styraciflua, Quercus spp. y Morella cerfera. El establecimiento de las especies tardas, tpicas del bosque mesfilo como Prunus brachybotrya, P. lundelliana, Synardisia venosa y Styrax magnus es an precario ya que requieren de la cobertura proporcionada por las especies tempranas.
43443054|We observed and manipulated habitat for a remnant population of the eastern regal fritillary (Speyeria idalia idalia), at Fort Indiantown Gap, an Army National Guard installation in Pennsylvania. Three years of study indicate that the key elements of regal fritillary habitat (larval host plants, adult nectar sources, and adult resting sites) depend on severe disturbance to soils and vegetation. Army training activity (military tracked vehicles and fire) maintained populations of larval host plants (violets) more effectively than combinations of light soil scarification, mowing, and removal of mowed biomass. In addition, plantings of nectar species (milkweeds and thistles) grew best on wetter sites after applying a non-selective herbicide (glyphosate), although herbiciding may be unnecessary on uplands. Because the required larval food and adult nectar and resting sites persist only with recurring disturbance, a practical, biologically effective, and essentially permanent program of disturbance is needed to sustain the population at Fort Indiantown Gap.
43443011|Isolated wilderness ecosystems with a history of frequent, low-severity fires have been altered due to many decades of fire exclusion and, as a result, are difficult to restore for philosophical and logistical reasons. In this paper, we describe the successional conditions of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) communities along the South Fork of the Flathead River in the Bob Marshall Wilderness following decades of fire suppression, and then summarize the first-year effects of the 2003 fires on these communities. We found that at least 34 percent of the large ponderosa pine trees were dead or dying as a result of the fires, with much of this mortality due to cambial girdling following the burning of duff and litter buildup around the base of the trees. We explore possible strategies for, and barriers to, the restoration of deteriorating ecosystems in wilderness and other similarly managed natural areas that historically depended on frequent, low-intensity fires. We also discuss the complexity of managing fire-dependent ecosystems in wilderness.
43441152|We evaluated direct transplantation of the sensitive California adolphia (Adolphia californica) in southern California and relocation of this species by means of container plants propagated from similar genetic sources. Three years after planting, container plants had significantly higher rates of survival and only slightly lower rates of growth. The higher survival rate combined with the significantly lower cost of container plantings (transplantation is ten times more expensive owing to the labor and heavy equipment required to transplant mature plants) suggests that container propagation is a cost-effective technique for relocating deep-rooted Mediterranean climate shrub species. The author also shares general guidelines for relocating Mediterranean shrub and tree species.
43443036|Revegetation of degraded shrub-steppe often fails due to intense competition from weeds, highly variable environmental conditions, and limited soil moisture. The objective of this study was to test whether a commercially available seed coating and a water-retaining acrylamide copolymer hydrogel would increase seedling emergence and establishment of crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum) under three watering frequencies and two soil textures. Pots were filled with one of four soil treatments: field soil, two parts field soil mixed with one part sand, field soil plus hydrogel, or field soil plus sand plus hydrogel. We seeded the pots with coated or uncoated seed and placed them in a greenhouse for 66 days. The pots were assigned one of three watering treatments: 4.5 oz (150 ml) applied one time per week, 1.5 oz (50 ml) applied three times per week, or 0.9 oz (30 ml) applied five times per week. We recorded seedling emergence at three and six weeks. At the end of 66 days, the numbers of seedlings that survived were counted and aboveground biomass was collected, dried, and weighed. We found that uncoated seed had 1.6 times greater seedling density than coated seed. Incorporation of the acrylamide copolymer hydrogel into the potting medium conferred some benefit to emergence, biomass, and survivorship of crested wheatgrass seedlings. However, it was watering frequency that produced the most consistent influence on seedling emergence, survival, and biomass. Watering three or five times per week increased emergence more than watering one time per week, but watering one time per week generally led to greater survivorship and biomass. This suggests that the use of water-retaining hydrogels may help to overcome soil moisture limitations and improve seedling establishment during revegetation of degraded shrub-steppe.
43441301|Over the next century, climate change will dramatically alter natural resource management. Specifically, historical reference conditions may no longer serve as benchmarks for restoration, which may foster a "why bother?" attitude toward ecological restoration. We review the potential role for riparian restoration to prepare ecological systems for the threats posed by climate change. Riparian ecosystems are naturally resilient, provide linear habitat connectivity, link aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, and create thermal refugia for wildlife: all characteristics that can contribute to ecological adaptation to climate change. Because riparian systems and the projected impacts of climate change are highly variable geographically, there is a pressing need to develop a place-based understanding of climate change threats to riparian ecosystems. Restoration practitioners should consider how they can modify practices to enhance the resilience of riparian ecosystems to climate change. Such modifications may include accelerating the restoration of private lands, participating in water management decisions, and putting the emerging field of restoration genetics into practice.
43443268|We reviewed ecological and ethnobotanical information on forests and agroforestry systems of the Tehuacn Valley, central Mexico, to analyze the usefulness of traditional management techniques for ecological restoration of semiarid zones of Mexico. Agroforestry systems of the region involve the use of multiple plant resources by local people, promoting conservation of biological diversity in agricultural systems. We found that these systems retain 57% of the species of columnar cacti communities and nearly 94% of the dominant columnar cacti's genetic variation. Other species include shrubs and trees with cultural and economic value that are also recognized by ecologists as nurse plants crucial for seedling recruitment of numerous native plant species. Retention of native elements of vegetation in general, and nurse plants in particular, favors conservation of biodiversity and biotic interactions important for restoring vegetation and soil fertility in both natural and transformed ecosystems at the landscape level. Se revis informacin ecolgica y etnobotnica sobre bosques y sistemas agroforestales del Valle de Tehuacn, en el centro de Mxico, con el fin de analizar la utilidad de las tcnicas de manejo tradicional para la restauracin de zonas semiridas de Mxico. Los sistemas agroforestales de la regin involucran el uso de mltiples recursos vegetales por la gente del rea, promoviendo la conservacin de la diversidad biolgica en los sistemas agrcolas. Estimamos que estos sistemas mantienen en promedio 57% de las especies presentes en las comunidades de cactceas columnares, y cerca del 94% de la diversidad gentica de las especies de cactceas columnares dominantes. Entre las especies mantenidas en estos sistemas se incluyen algunas especies de rboles y arbustos de valor cultural y econmico, los cuales son adems reconocidos por eclogos como plantas nodrizas cruciales para el reclutamiento de plntulas de numerosas especies de plantas nativas. El mantenimiento de elementos nativos de la vegetacin en general y de plantas nodrizas en particular favorece la conservacin de la biodiversidad y de interacciones biticas importantes para la restauracin de la vegetacin y de la fertilidad del suelo tanto en ecosistemas naturales como transformados a nivel de paisaje.
43441331|Prescribed burning is a common management tool used in grassland restorations to improve conditions for plant growth. At a grassland restoration in Maryland, we studied the impacts of sequential prescribed burning on near-surface soil chemistry of a highly weathered soil. We hypothesized that soil pH and base cations in the surface soil would increase in the nutrient-poor soils after the burning from char hydrolysis and that cations would be retained in the surface soil between the burns. We collected soil cores 12 days and one year after a fall burn and 12 days after a subsequent spring burn. After the fall burn, we observed that soil pH, extractable cations, and organic matter (OM) were elevated in the soil profile in comparison to soil conditions before initiation of any burning, suggesting an impact of the dissolution of char (the mineral-containing carbonaceous residue of burning), increased root productivity since restoration, and leaching of soluble constituents from aboveground litter in the case of soil K. One year after the second burn, only cations remained elevated. After the third burn, soil pH, OM, Ca, and Mg were greater in the depths below 10 cm in comparison to conditions prior to initiation of burning. We conclude that the net change over time in soil pH, extractable cations, and OM of grassland restorations in the first few years of prescribed burning will depend primarily on the input of new char, the presence of residual char, and the timing and magnitude of leaching events. As the grassland restoration ages, belowground productivity will likely contribute more significantly to changes in soil chemistry.
43441297|Mechanical tree thinning and prescribed fire have been widely proposed for restoring ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests in the southwestern United States. However, these restoration activities often result in intensely disturbed sites, such as landings for equipment and temporary roads, which managers may need to revegetate. Managers may also wish to augment the forest understory through revegetation after thinning and burning treatments. We present five planting trials conducted as part of restoration projects in northern Arizona ponderosa pine forests in order to assess survival of 11 species and the influence of various microsites created by restoration activities. In one trial, five-year survival of four transplanted graminoid species ranged from 1% to 23% among species and from 0% (unthinned forest) to 22% (unburned slash) among microsites. Also illustrating microsite effects, over three times more Fendler's meadow-rue (Thalictrum fendleri) survived when outplanted below Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii) than in openings created by restoration pine thinning. Only 4% of purple locoweed (Oxytropis lambertii) survived in an unsuccessful attempt at revegetating a decommissioned road on dry cinder soils. Conversely, two years after outplanting on a different road on moister soil, mountain muhly (Muhlenbergia montana) survival was 72% (89% of which were fruiting), and 40% of plants of the biennial ragleaf bahia (Bahia dissecta) were surrounded by new seedlings. Results illustrate that successes occurred without supplemental watering even in dry years; outcomes hinged on species or planting microsite; and heavy mortality occurred in some contexts. Owing to financial costs and logistical constraints, revegetation may be most suited for localized disturbances caused by restoration activities or for creating revegetated islands for understory augmentation.
43441299|To conserve or restore culturally significant plants, one must consider the important role that indigenous land management techniques have played in maintaining habitats of those species. Beargrass (Xerophyllum tenax) is a basketry plant used by Native Americans and is reportedly declining in traditional gathering sites. Many low-elevation beargrass sites on the Olympic Peninsula in Washington were maintained as savannas and wetland prairies through anthropogenic burning prior to European settlement. This study measures short-term (1 and 2 y) effects of reintroducing prescribed burning (both low and high severity) and manual clearing on beargrass growth and reproductive successflowering, vegetative reproduction, and seedling establishment. High-severity fire led to a significant increase in beargrass seedling establishment and vegetative reproduction over two years but a decline in beargrass cover. Low-severity fire also decreased beargrass cover, but did not significantly affect shoot production or seedling establishment. In areas where vegetation and coarse woody debris were manually cleared, beargrass cover decreased, while shoot production and flowering increased. Neither low-severity fires nor clearing plots affected beargrass seedling establishment. Results indicate that fire is a useful tool for enhancing low-elevation beargrass populations in this region.
43441154|We describe a proposed large-scale restoration and land use management project planned for a portion of the Drakensberg Mountains in South Africa. Some 250,000 ha of high-lying land in the Drakensberg range are a protected conservation area and also a World Heritage Site. Bordering this conservation enclave is another 250,000 ha of increasingly degraded land subject to a variety of competing land uses. Conflicting land use objectives could, in theory, be mitigated and reconciled by identifying and developing a market for the delivery of ecosystem services such as water use and quality, carbon sequestration, erosion and siltation reduction, combating desertification, and the promotion of biodiversity conservation. The project we describe here can serve as an example of how long-term investment in the restoration of natural capital (RNC) will benefit both developed and developing countries, with payment for ecosystem services as a key way to finance the restoration work. International investments in the Drakensberg project are being sought in emerging markets for carbon, water, and biodiversity creditsthe so-called "umbrella ecosystem services." Food, water, energy, and income security for local people, however, remain top priorities. We argue that this kind of RNC project is a way to simultaneously pursue the objectives of the global conventions on Biodiversity, Climate Change, and Desertification arising from the United Nations' Rio Summit of 1992, and to help meet the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals for alleviating poverty.
43441334|Precision Prairie Reconstruction (PPR) is a site-specific application for enhancing native species richness (specifically, native forbs) in old fields dominated by a few non-native grass species. The method consists of establishing microcommunities of native grasses and forbs in an existing grass matrix. The microcommunities are created by broadcast seeding simulated small-scale disturbances (8.06 m) installed over a percentage of the site. The PPR results were compared with two standard restoration techniques: herbicide/drill-seeding and rototill/broadcast seeding. A PPR design that disturbed only 25% of the area resulted in total species richness, native grass frequency, and native forb richness, stability, and density over the entire plot that were similar to what was found in the conventional rototill/broadcast method and produced better results than the herbicide/drill-seeding method. The PPR technique involved less cost and less overall disturbance than traditional herbicide application/drill-seeding or rototill/broadcast seeding methods. PPR offers an alternative approach for increasing native grass and forb diversity in old fields dominated by a few non-native grass species.
43443233|University of Wisconsin-Madison Arboretum's Earth Partnership for Schools program works with students, teachers, and citizen volunteers to restore schoolyards and natural areas and to address diversity, pollution prevention, and ecological literacy across age, ecosystem, discipline, and culture. A ten-step restoration education process with more than 100 activities that address multiple learning styles is integrated with school curricula. The RESTORE ("Restoration Education, Science Training and Outreach for Regional Educators") program has trained teams to bring Earth Partnership for Schools to a variety of ecosystems in 17 states and Puerto Rico, and has included more than 400 schools, 1,600 teachers, and 160,000 students. Key supporters and collaborators include the U.S. National Science Foundation, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Forest Service, and other public and private agencies, universities, arboreta, botanic gardens, and environmental organizations. Earth Partnership is inspired by Aldo Leopold's "land ethic" that sees land as a community to which we belong, and was articulated so clearly in his beloved Sand County Almanac in 1949.
43441332|The vast dune system that once dominated the entire western half of the San Francisco peninsula in California has been reduced to a few fragments that conserve locally threatened plant and animal species. We measured the effects of ongoing restoration efforts on wildlife abundance and diversity on one of the largest of these fragments, Fort Funston in the Golden Gate National Recreation Area. Efforts included removal of non-native species, active restoration of native dune vegetation, and restricted visitor use. We collected data regarding the composition and abundance of vegetation, birds, and ground-dwelling vertebrates on four treatments including an actively restored area with restricted visitor use, an unrestored area where visitor use had been restricted for ten years, an unrestored area where visitor use had been restricted for two years, and an unrestored area with unrestricted visitor use. Results indicated that the diversity and abundance of wildlife species, as well as the richness and cover of native plant species, were greater in the restored area than in all other sampled areas. Restricted visitor use alone had only modest positive effects on the abundance and diversity of wildlife and the richness and cover of native plant species.
43443191|A recent survey of state environmental regulators revealed that natural resource injuries caused by oil pollution are a major concern, yet few respondents reported pursuing compensation for damages on a regular basis. It appears that their reluctance is due to the fact that many view natural resource damage assessments (NRDA) as a costly, time-consuming and legally risky undertaking. This article presents a case study of Florida's approach to this type of regulation, which relies on the combination of a standardized arithmetic formula and an interactive GIS. Once compensation is obtained, dollars enter a trust fund from which withdrawals can be made when the balance is sufficient to conduct needed restorations. This approach is suggested as a model for jurisdictions interested in pursuing damages for natural resource injuries because it has proven to be a quick, inexpensive, and defensible mechanism for generating damage estimates, even for small spills. Like any real-world application, Florida's methodology is not perfect but shortcomings are discussed here in depth and potential solutions presented.
43442990|We conducted a programmatic assessment of ecological restoration within the United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National Estuarine Research Reserve System (NERRS). The NERRS encompasses a network of 26 protected areas in 20 coastal states and Puerto Rico, representing a broad diversity of aquatic and terrestrial habitat types among pristine and disturbed settings. Nearly all of the reserves provide opportunities for habitat restoration and enhancement, and for research in restoration ecology. While the political, scientific, and management issues affecting restoration among the reserves vary, general restoration priorities are similar. The reserves provide a fertile arena for the development and standardization of restoration monitoring protocols and for the development of innovative restoration technologies and applications.
43442994|The largest roseate tern (Sterna dougalii) colony in the Northern Hemisphere, which is located on Great Gull Island, is no pristine haven. Indeed, Great Gull Island is an ecology ical anomalya weed-ridden 17 acres (6.8 ha) of scrubby grass, tall blinds for bird watching, and crumbling military infrastructure. Invasive and other weedy plants have threatened tern-nesting habitat throughout the past decades, despite admirable attempts at rehabilitating the island's ecosystem. A new restoration project that integrates historical lessons with expanded resources, promises the best chance yet for successful restoration of the island and its unique roseate and common tern (S. hirunda) populations.
43440695|People who undertake river remediation projects have a variety of goals, both ecological and social, that they seek to fulfill. Practical examples of river remediation projects implemented in Israel in recent years illustrate how conflicting goals can be balanced in the actual implementation of such projects. While restoration, in terms of rehabilitating riparian landscapes and ecosystems, was one of the key aims of Israel's river remediation program, it has not been the dominant outcome in individual river basins. Instead the program has produced a variety of environmental conditions depending on the situation at hand. While these environmental conditions may or may not have the same ecological value as the original river environments prior to significant human impacts, the anthropocentric value of these remediated environments is now undoubtedly many times greater than it was prior to the remediation program. The pragmatic approach taken by the Israelis in effect acknowledged that the full restoration of past riparian environments was impossible and that a balance between ecological and human goals needed to be struck to achieve a sustainable outcome.
43441234|As on many other islands, most of the seabird species breeding in Portugal's Azores archipelago are now restricted to tiny remnants of their former nesting range, owing in large part to the introduction of mammals by humans. Praia Islet, 0.12 km in size, is home to five seabird species, four of which fall under the European listing of "conservation concern." Introduced rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) on Praia had accelerated soil erosion through overgrazing, destroyed seabird nests, and competed for burrows with petrels. Restoration of seabird habitat on the islet began in 1995 and involved rabbit eradication, control of soil erosion, native plant reintroduction, and installation of artificial nests for common terns (Sterna hirundo), roseate terns (Sterna dougallii), and Madeiran storm-petrels (Oceanodroma castro). Rabbits were eradicated in 1997 using broadcast pellets containing poison. Since then, soil erosion has decreased, many of the reintroduced native plants have started to spread, and tern and Madeiran storm-petrel breeding numbers on the islet have increased by 1,548% and 43%, respectively. However, Praia Islet seabirds remain vulnerable owing to human recreational activities. This case study highlights the need to consider local conditions carefully when assessing restoration options to effect rapid mammal eradication. It also confirms the value of combining measures aimed at restoring native vegetation and improving seabird habitat quality with alien herbivore eradication.
43441153|Glossy buckthorn (Frangula alnus) is an exotic invasive shrub within many Midwestern wetlands and adjacent ecotones, including those found in several National Wildlife Refuges. Where glossy buckthorn becomes established, it can form a dense homogenous monoculture, outcompete native shrubs, and alter other ecosystem processes. Active management of glossy buckthorn is critical to minimize the spread of this species, and to restore or rehabilitate those areas presently impacted. We tested the efficacy of herbiciding and scorching on glossy buckthorn survival. Treatments were implemented in concert with management efforts currently practiced at Seney National Wildlife Refuge in Upper Michigan. One year after applying 20% glyphosate to cut buckthorn stumps, we found no difference in resprout density between this concentration of herbicide applied by sponge to stumps, scorching stumps with a propane torch, or untreated controls (p > 0.05). Additional low-volume spraying of 5% glyphosate to resprouts the following year significantly (p < 0.001 ) reduced resprout density as compared to scorching and controls, with no difference between scorch treatments and the controls. Low-volume herbicide spraying reduced seedlings by 96% and 91% one and two years following treatment, with no difference in seedling density between scorching treatments and controls. The most effective management option for reducing glossy buckthorn appears to be repetitive herbicide application, possibly for more than two years.
43441270|Cliffs and cliff-edges are often attractive places to humans, and therefore may become damaged through recreational activities. Restoring cliffs and cliff-edges, which can be important sites of biodiversity, is challenging in part because of insufficient knowledge about native plant restoration techniques for these ecologically distinct areas. The cliff-edge at Shovel Point in Tettegouche State Park, Minnesota, has been damaged by heavy visitor use. We propagated 450 threetoothed cinquefoil (Potentina tridentata) and 450 poverty grass (Danthonia spicata) plants from locally obtained seed to test revegetation techniques. We seeded plots with cinquefoil and poverty grass seeds for comparison with transplanted plots, we monitored survivorship and seedling recruitment for three seasons, and we counted the number of new shoots produced at 3 and 24 months after transplantation. Visitor access to planted areas was restricted during the study. Overall survival rates at 3, 13, and 24 months were 87.3%, 76.9%, and 68.9% for three-toothed cinquefoil and 98.7%, 96.7%, and 63.8% for poverty grass. The grand mean number of new shoots produced per plant was 0.37 and 2.11 (SE = 0.227, 0.365) at 3 and 24 months respectively for three-toothed cinquefoil and -0.2 and -3.15 (SE = 0.584, 0.295) at 3 and 24 months respectively for poverty grass. Only one seeded plot had a single poverty grass plant by the end of the study. One-way ANOVA tests revealed no statistically significant differences among treatments within species for survival or number of new shoots produced. We conclude that when transplanted, three-toothed cinquefoil and poverty grass are useful species for revegetation of damaged outcrops such as Shovel Point.
43443137|In recent years, national forest managers have increasingly practiced ecological restoration in collaboration with local communities. However, in communicating with the public about proposed projects, U.S. Forest Service employees tend to use the technical language of silviculture. Such language is difficult for lay audiences to understand; moreover, because it originated in a timber culture, it can cause confusion about a restoration project's true purpose. For collaboration to work and restoration to succeed in public lands, a new kind of language is needed; one that more clearly communicates the intended purpose of ecological restoration. In this article, we explore the kind of language typically used in national forest management and the need for something new.
43441239|Streams on western rangelands are sometimes degraded to the point that reestablishing lost ecological values requires rebuilding their physical structure, shape, and form. We evaluated the biological response to reconstruction of a small rangeland stream channel through comparisons of aquatic invertebrate communities before and after engineering activities and in relation to local and regional reference stream conditions. We measured geomorphic and riparian habitat features along with benthic macroinvertebrates for two years prior to restoration actions and for two years afterward. Stream restoration activities included the construction of a new channel to replace an incised meadow stream reach (including addition of coarse rock substrate, erosion control fabric, and willow planting) and the rehabilitation of gullies and roads in the meadow and its watershed. In postproject monitoring, we found statistically significant changes in the macroinvertebrate community and trophic structure at the restored site. These were exhibited as increases in EPT taxa (mayflies, stoneflies, caddisflies) and the proportion and diversity of sensitive taxa, decreased tolerant taxa, and an increase in consumers of riparian organic matter (shredders) and decrease in fine organic particle filter-feeders. A site monitored downstream of the restoration activities exhibited increased deposition of fines and sand one year after project construction, but was similar to preproject conditions in the second year, and the macroinvertebrate community was unchanged. Improved biological integrity at the restored site showed that rapid recovery can occur in rebuilt streams within rehabilitated watersheds, but neither degraded nor enhanced conditions were transferred to downstream habitat, at least over the initial postproject period.
43443291|To prepare for the ecological impacts of climate change, a landscape approach is needed in which existing protected areas are enlarged and secured and ecological corridors between areas are protected and restored, thus establishing a real ecological network that is resilient to future change. This article reviews the EU Birds and Habitats Directives and shows that restoration is a central objective of the Natura 2000 network of protected areas created by the directives, at least where intense human activity and development is taking place within or nearby Natura 2000 sites. However, the current legal provisions fall short of meeting the requirements necessary to help biodiversity adapt to climate change. The good news is that these shortcomings do not hinder government authorities that want to take action. The bad news is that this will always be on a voluntary basis. The article recommends a few small amendments to the Natura 2000 scheme that would require member states to develop robust restoration plans that will help nature adapt to a changing climate.
43443039|We conducted a floristic ordination and gradient analysis of plant communities extending from prairie through graminoid-dominated wetlands in the Chicago region of northeastern Illinois. Data represented about 450 species from 103 stands sampled across a gradient of six soil moisture classes ranging from dry to hydric, and included sand, gravel, dolomite, and loam prairies as well as fen, sedge meadow, floating mat, marsh, and bog. As found in other Midwestern grassland studies, vegetation aligned most strongly along a soil moisture gradient with individualistic species distributions forming a hierarchical continuum, and lower species richness at the dry and wet extremes of the moisture gradient. Most species were infrequent, with about 70 percent occurring at less than 20-percent frequency and present in less than five communities. Species that were more frequent within communities were also more widespread among communities, fitting the niche-based model of species distribution. Moreover, less than 20 percent of all species sampled were significant indicators of soil moisture gradient classes, with most representing mesic and hydric habitats. Dominant prairie grasses extended from dry to wet habitats, merging with wetland species in graminoid fen, calcareous seep and sedge meadow habitats. Hydric habitat, represented by calcareous floating mat, marsh and bog, had fewer dominant prairie species and was dominated by a wetland flora. These results provide compositional and structural models for managing and restoring vegetation across the prairie-wetland vegetation gradient of the Chicago region.
43443262|Cogongrass (imperata cylindrica) is a globally recognized invasive weed; it has caused land management problems and threatened critical habitat in the southeastern United States as well as on most continents. We tested four rates of imazapyr (1.17, 2.34, 3.51 and 4.68 L/ha), the most effective active ingredient available for cogongrass control, as two formulations (Chopper and the new generation Chopper known as Chopper GEN2) on cogongrass cover over a 27-month period in central Florida. One month after the June treatment, Chopper GEN2 provided significantly greater cover reduction than the original Chopper formulation. Twelve months after treatment, cogongrass top regrowth cover was similar among all herbicide treatments, ranging from 1% to 3%. However, 15 months after treatment, cogongrass cover was significantly higher at the lowest rates of Chopper treatments than for the Chopper GEN2 treatments, and this trend continued throughout the experiment. Overall, Chopper GEN2 provided immediate control (one month after treatment) that continued to 27 months after treatment.
43443228|In the context of a new international master's degree program, "Biodiversity in Tropical Areas and its Conservation," we led a two-week module on ecological restoration in Ecuador for 34 future conservation professionals from nine nations, including seven from Latin America. One week was spent in the cloud-forest life zone, a second in the lowland tropical forest. The ranges of biomes and socioeconomic and historical settings that commonly occur in tropical regions were discussed. We saw these students as future communicators engaged not only in management of protected areas, but also as deeply involved in outreach, negotiation, and consensus-building among stakeholders. Students were introduced to concepts and techniques for evaluating a degraded landscape in order to determine past and present land uses and conflicts of interest among stakeholders. They were instructed on how to select a reference model using sequential reference sites and to incorporate nine attributes of satisfactorily restored ecosystems into restoration plans. In nine small groups, the 34 participating students prepared proposals to obtain funding for a restoration project in their home countries or in one of the two regions of Ecuador that were visited in the module. For this purpose, each group developed a schematic model showing how the target ecosystems were degraded and landscapes fragmented. In a second schema, they proposed a program to restore or rehabilitate different landscape units and to reintegrate fragmented landscapes. Highlights and lessons learned from this modular exercise are presented and discussed.
43443190|This paper examines the historical origins of ecological restoration in the arid and semiarid deserts of the southwestern USA. Scientific knowledge and aesthetic valuations both emerged during a period of acute environmental degradation between 1893 and 1905, strongly influencing subsequent debates and practices. In science and aesthetics alike, the historical nature of southwestern landscapes was occluded: Clementsian ecology and range science posited a climax condition and an "original capacity" for livestock, while aesthetic treatments such as those of John Van Dyke saw transcendent and timeless beauty in the dramatic dynamics of actively degrading landscapes. In recent decades, southwestern ecologists have renounced Clementsian ecology and its implied telos of "pristine" presettlement conditions. But aesthetic ideals continue to influence broader debates and practices of ecological restoration in the region, specifically with regard to grasslands, riparian areas, livestock grazing, and fire.
43443193|In addressing land degradation, a number of watershed rehabilitation programs have been carried out in Ethiopia. This study aims to financially quantify watershed rehabilitation in a way that incorporates major costs and returns. We also construct scenarios to portray cost-benefit information about the future. The data were obtained from a physical survey and supplemented with secondary sources. Total cost and return values for the watersheds were compared monetarily through cost-benefit analysis and these values were extrapolated to the future. The results indicate that the benefit was Ethiopian Birr 918,049 and 4,651,167 (US$73,821 and US$374,008) for the smallest and largest of the rehabilitated watersheds, respectively, while the expenditure was Birr 154,178 and 205,712 (US$17,701 and US$23,620). Under optimal management in the future, these benefits can reach up to Birr 19,334,643 and 76,699,254 (US$2,219,821 and US$8,805,884), while the costs remain the same. The results clearly indicate that investment in watershed rehabilitation may be an economically viable short-term and long-term proposition. Hence there is a strong case for sustainable management of rehabilitated watersheds in view of the very high economic benefits from the rehabilitation.
43441125|In recent years residents of the intermontane West have experienced a series of expensive and high-profile fire seasons. One result is that the concept of ecological restoration has moved squarely into public view. As scientists and practitioners continue to refine the definition of ecological restoration as a practical matter, citizens are forming their own perceptions of how restoration should be applied to local forests. We used a recent public opinion survey in north-central Arizona to assess public views of restoration. Our findings indicate broad support for restoration although portions of the population, particularly those in rural areas, see restoration primarily as a means to protect human lives and property from fire. Most importantly, our findings suggest that a majority of the public in this region have a view of restoration beyond fire risk reduction, but vary in their willingness to accept dramatic changes to forest conditions.
43443165|The Huachuca water umbel (HWU, Lilaeopsis schaffneriana ssp. recurva) is a federally endangered aquatic perennial plant endemic to southeastern Arizona and northern Sonora, Mexico. The species was listed because of threats posed by the degradation and loss of wetlands throughout its limited range. Although the species is easily grown in a greenhouse, information regarding specific requirements that allow long-term persistence of HWU in natural habitats is lacking, and few efforts to reintroduce this species have been attempted. Using greenhouse-propagated material, we introduced 128 individual HWU plugs into four spring-fed wetland sites near Elgin, Arizona. The sites represent a range of habitat conditions. After two years, overall survival of transplanted plugs was 60% and the area occupied had increased by 845%. This study documented the response of transplanted HWU to periodic drying, disturbance due to scouring and trampling, and sediment deposition. We also examined the number of viable seeds incorporated into a seed bank at the study location in the first season after transplanting. This case study offers a model for watershedwide reintroduction efforts of endangered plants. It also illustrates the importance of low-level disturbance and the necessity of long-term monitoring and maintenance of competing plant species in establishing viable species reintroductions.
43440696|The historical implementation of large river engineering projects in China highlights an inconsistency between humans resource needs and the integrity of rivers on which humans depend. Currently, China's massive water projects have the attention of international media and the global scientific community, while a series of smaller, local projects designed to enhance the quality and function of rivers across China remains largely undocumented. The implementation of such smallscale restoration efforts signals an important paradigm shift related to environmental values and awareness in China, as national funding is diverted in a progressive campaign to support local restoration practices. Because of China's substantial role in directing the health of the planet (Shapiro 2001), and with many developing countries struggling to manage limited supplies of clean water, it is important to highlight the successes and failures of China's efforts to enhance the condition of its degraded riverine systems. The challenges and successes of these projects have important implications for global efforts, particularly in developing countries, to improve the quality, vitality, and utility of river systems.
43441269|Invasive perennial species are frequently a barrier to native plant establishment in fertile sedge meadow wetland restorations. Amending soils with high carbon-to-nitrogen (C:N) materials may deplete nitrogen (N) and limit the establishment of invasive species, although the effectiveness of such amendments at depleting soil N in restored wetlands is largely unknown. Therefore we incorporated four high C:N materials (cedar, white pine, and red oak sawdust, as well as sucrose) into the soils of nonvegetated plots in a restored sedge meadow wetland and measured soil ammonium-N and nitrate-N in relation to nonamended control plots over a 25-week period. All amendments depleted nitrate-N concentrations equivalently (67%-100%), although both the timing and the duration of this depletion varied among amendments. White pine sawdust was most effective, depleting nitrate-N for the entire 25 weeks. Sawdust from red oak and cedar depleted nitrate-N after 5 and 13 weeks, respectively. Lowered nitrate-N concentrations then persisted for the remaining 20 weeks in the red oak treatments, while the effects of cedar were short-lived (8 weeks). Sucrose depleted nitrate-N for 13 weeks. No amendment depleted ammonium-N concentrations, although cedar sawdust caused initial ammonium-N concentrations to increase by 300%-700%. Based on our findings, white pine sawdust will be more likely to deplete N effectively during the establishment of sedge meadow wetlands. It is unknown, however, if this depletion will suppress invasive perennials long enough to allow desired native species to establish a closed canopy and take up nitrogen, thereby limiting the chances of future invasions.
43443138|In the montane grasslands of Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, non-native plant species are affecting the distribution and cover of native plant species. Two exotic nitrogen-fixing Eurasian sweetclover species (Melilotus officinalis and M. alba) occur in patches that have less available nitrogen (N) and a species composition different from surrounding grassland patches. I tested whether burning sweetclover-invaded patches would increase native grass and perennial diversity and available soil nitrogen at this elevation. I burned 24 sweetclover-invaded and noninvaded field plots with a propane torch in May 1999. Burning increased species richness and ground cover. Specifically, one year later native, grass, and perennial species increased in previously invaded patches and sweetclover or other exotic species associated with sweetclover did not increase. Soil ammonium (NH) levels increased immediately after the burn in May, and nitrate (NO) levels increased later in July and August. New species appeared only in burned plots. While other methods to reduce sweetclover might remove resources, fire increases light, space, and nutrient availability for native species that, in turn, suppress the exotic species.
43441295|Purple milkweed (Asdepias purpurascens) is a relatively rare member of the flora of oak savannas and open oak woodlands. It is endangered in several states and has been the subject of special conservation efforts. A number of native populations of this species arose spontaneously at Pleasant Valley Conservancy State Natural Area in south-central Wisconsin after oak savanna restoration was initiated in 1997. Ecological observations of permanently marked stands made over a ten-year period have shown that growth is highly variable from year to year, and flowering and seed set are sporadic and unpredictable. Germination studies have determined that seed viability is very high. Greenhouse-raised plants have been successfully transplanted to the field and followed for three years. Transplants have also been used in a forbs garden, where plants could be monitored more effectively. Pod formation and seed set are highly variable, both in the field and in the forbs garden, and may partly explain the rarity of this species.
43443109|Oregon white oak (or Garry oak, Quercus garryana) woodlands and savannas of the coastal Pacific Northwest are legacies of an anthropogenic fire regime that ended with European settlement in the mid-1800s. Historically, these oak stands had a sparse overstory and an understory dominated by fire-tolerant grasses and forbs. Post-settlement fire suppression resulted in widespread invasion and subsequent overstory dominance by conifers, causing mortality of shade-intolerant oak trees and shifting understory plant communities to shade-tolerant species. In a study on four southwestern Washington sites, our objective was to determine the effects of overstory conifer removal, primarily Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), on microclimate, native and non-native understory cover, and sapling growth. Overstory conifer removal created a warmer, drier understory microclimate during summer months. Conifer removal had little effect on native understory cover during five years post-treatment; however, cover of non-native plants, primarily grasses and woody understory species, increased significantly during the same period. Height growth of Oregon white oak and Douglas-fir saplings exhibited a delayed, but positive, response to overstory conifer removal, although the treatment response of Douglas-fir was 133% greater than that of oak. Increases in non-native understory cover and the rapid growth of young Douglas-fir indicate the importance of pre- and post-treatment understory management to control undesirable plants and promote native species such as Oregon white oak.
43443266|The Xochimilco wetland in Mexico City is threatened by reductions to the aquatic system area, overexploitation of water resources, and widespread pollution. The introduced carp (Cyprinus carpio) and Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) compete with endemic species such as the axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum). The Restoration Ecology Laboratory of the Institute of Biology, Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mexico together with local fisher groups, with funding from local government, implemented a project to reduce non-native fish by drawing on local fishing expertise. To improve project management, project coordinators established a participatory monitoring and evaluation scheme, which provides a basis for understanding local livelihood strategies and stakeholder priorities. Recognizing that there are differences among stakeholders and establishing institutional arrangements that account for these differences can result in more inclusive projects based on mutual understanding and cooperation. This, in turn, yields better results. However, group dynamics, local political alliances, and powerful actors turn participation into an intricate social process. Restoration practitioners who are serious about participation should bear in mind that a participatory approach may add complexity to project implementation, but the outcome may be more sustainable restoration projects. El humedal de Xochimilco en la Ciudad de Mxico est amenazado debido a la reduccin del sistema acutico, la sobreexplotacin y contaminacin de las fuentes de agua. Las especies introducidas, carpas (Cyprinus carpio) y tilapia del Nilo (Oreochromis niloticus), compiten con las especies endmicas, como el ajolote (Ambystoma mexicanum). El Laboratorio de Restauracin Ecolgica del Instituto de Biologa, Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico junto con grupos locales de pescadores y con financiamiento del gobierno local, la Delegacin de Xochimilco, han implementado un proyecto de pesca intensiva para reducir las poblaciones de peces exticos con base en la experiencia pesquera local. Los ejecutores del proyecto establecieron un esquema de monitoreo y evaluacin participativos que brinda una base para comprender los medios de vida locales y las prioridades de los actores interesados a la vez que coadyuva en el mejoramiento de la gestin de proyectos. El reconocimiento de que existen diferencias entre los diversos actores y el consecuente establecimiento de arreglos institucionales que ayuden a tomarlas en consideracin pueden dar como resultado un proyecto ms incluyente con base en el entendimiento comn y la cooperacin. A su vez, esto genera mejores resultados. Sin embargo, la dinmica grupai, las alianzas polticas locales y los actores relativamente ms poderosos pueden tornar a la participacin en un proceso social intricado. Los expertos en restauracin que deseen adoptar un enfoque participativo con seriedad deben tomar en cuenta que ste puede aadir complejidad en la implementacin de proyectos, pero el resultado bien puede ser una mayor sustentabilidad.
43443229|Croups in society interested in restoring disturbed landscapes range from self-motivated community groups to big commercial enterprises. While restoration goals are generally identified, the initial starting position for many projects is often characterized by too small a knowledge base and hence the selection process for choosing a restoration technique is not rigorous. Landscape Function Analysis (LFA) is an n-the-field, indicator-based procedure that allows rapid assessment of how well a landscape works as a biophysical system. The rapid conversion of raw field data into useful information is a key design feature. This enables restoration planners and practitioners to understand the effect of disturbances and their drivers, so that appropriate techniques can be devised and implemented to attain restoration goals. The same procedure can be used to monitor restoration progress, once significant and relevant milestones are identified that can be monitored over time. I will describe how I teach this technique in the field and recount how this has enabled restoration practitioners to focus on the underlying disturbances.
43443167|We describe ten years of restoration work on a 56-ha tract of former ranchland. The historical characterization of this area at the time of the displacement of indigenous people by settlers initially formed the basis for our restoration decisions. Today, a higher human population density and a change in climate preclude a return to the presettlement state, necessitating the formulation of other restoration goals and methods. The methods employed, metrics to determine the results of restoration, and the results of bird, butterfly, and plant surveys are listed. Changes in vegetation due to the restoration are illustrated and future plans are discussed.
43443072|Small mammals in restored and native grassland plots were monitored at Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge in Colorado from 1997 to 2005 in order to measure the effects of restoration on small mammal communities. Variation in small mammal metrics (total captures, total biomass, and species richness) were related to both restoration efforts and interannual variation in weather. We compared remnant native grassland sites with restored grasslands and found that restoration plots experienced declines in the above measures following the initial alteration of soil and vegetation. However, abundance of some species and species richness also declined in control plots, probably owing to recent drought. We observed partial recovery of small mammals three to five years post-restoration. These findings suggest that timing and scale of restoration are both important considerations in maintaining small mammal communities.
43443057|Wetlands, uplands and turtle habitat were targets for a 1995 restoration of 488 m of a lakeshore in Flushing Meadows Corona Park in New York City. Approximately 25,000 plants (native species of grasses, herbs, shrubs, and trees) were introduced and intensively monitored through 1997 and monitored periodically until 2003. Vegetation was not managed during this time. While biodiversity and habitat complexity goals were achieved for wildlife, few elements of the initial plantings persist. Invasive species (common reed [Phragmites australis], purple loosestrife [Lythrum salicaria], common wormwood [Artemisia vulgaris]) are abundant in both uplands and wetlands. The larger upland parcels and larger (and deeper) wetlands supported more planted species and were more resistant to the spread of invasive species. Many of the original plantings were destroyed due to arson, theft, and lack of management.
43440694|Bottomland hardwood ecosystems, important for their unique functions and values, have experienced considerable degradation since European settlement through deforestation, development, and drainage. Currently, considerable effort is underway to restore ecological functions on degraded bottomland sites. Restoration requires a better understanding of the biological components, especially plants, and their interactions with other biotic and abiotic components of the ecosystem. Previous experimental approaches have focused on the effects of stress on floodplain plant species in controlled, small-scale studies or large, uncontrolled ecosystem-scale studies. We describe a facility, named the Flooding Research Facility (FRF), where hydrologic regimes can be manipulated to study ecophysiology of floodplain species. Key features of the FRF include the ability to establish experiments on a scale larger than would be possible in a greenhouse, but small enough to control key abiotic variables, such as flood frequency, duration, and light availability on native bottomland soil. Design of the FRF allows for random and replicated treatment applications. Additionally, we provide an example of ongoing research on the effects of flooding and light availability on pondberry (Lindera melissifolia), a federally endangered shrub found in the southeastern United States.
43443270|The riparian vegetation along many rivers is so modified by farming and grazing that forest restoration targets are far from obvious, and initial steps are hard to plan. The Ayuquila River in southern Mexico offered the opportunity to test an approach that integrates ecological data and ethnobotanical information to identify reference sites that could serve as restoration targets and prioritize woody species for initiating restoration. In this case study, data from 12 sites along a 90 km section of the river included 125 herbaceous species (98 genera, 47 families in a total sampling area of 120 m) and 77 woody plant species (58 genera, 36 families in a total sampled area of 6,000 m). Of the woody plants, 37 were known to have one or more human uses. We employed one ranking protocol to select reference sites (based on diversity, forest structure, and ethnobotanical use) and another to prioritize the woody plants for potential reintroduction (based on five species attributes). The latter protocol yielded 15 species that deserve further testing for their ability to establish in restoration sites. The site/species selection protocol proved useful in selecting restoration targets and prioritizing speciestwo early steps in projects designed to conserve biodiversity, maintain associated cultural values, and catalyze community involvement in riparian ecosystem restoration. La vegetacin riparia frecuentamente se encuentra tan perturbada por la prctica de agricultura y ganadera que las metas de restauracin no son obvias, y los pasos iniciales son difciles de planificar. El Ro Ayuquila, en el Sur de Mxico, nos ofreci la oportunidad para probar un mtodo que integra datos ecolgicos y etnobotnicos con el fin de identificar sitios de referencia que podran servir como metas de restauracin, y priorizar especies leosas para iniciar el proceso de restauracin. En este estudio de caso, datos de 12 sitios (a travs de una seccin del ro de 90 km) incluyen 125 especies herbceas (de 98 gneros y 47 familias en un rea total de muestreo de 120 m) y 77 especies leosas (58 gneros y 36 familias en un rea total de muestreo de 6,000 m). De las especies leosas, 37 se conocen por su potencial para uno o ms usos humanos. Empleamos un protocolo de clasificacin para escoger sitios de referencia (basado en diversidad, estructura del bosque, y uso etnobotnico) y otro protocolo para priorizar especias leosas segn la potencial de reintroduccin (basado en cinco atributos de las especies). El segundo protocolo revel 15 especies que merecen ms estudio para verificar la potencial de establecer en sitios de restauracin. El protocolo para escoger sitios y especies result til para escoger metas de restauracin y priorizar especies. Estos son dos pasos iniciales para proyectos con el fin de conservar la biodiversidad, mantener valores culturales, y catalizar la participacin comunitaria en la restauracin de ecosistemas riparias.
43441235|Land managers frequently thin small-diameter trees and apply prescribed fire to reduce fuel loads and restore ecosystem structure, function, and process in forested areas. There is increasing concern that disturbances associated with these management practices can facilitate non-native plant invasions. Cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum), an annual grass from the Mediterranean, has invaded large areas of the interior West and has become the dominant species in many of these areas. In 2003, a ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) ecological restoration site on Mount Trumbull in the Uinkaret Mountains of northern Arizona experienced a large increase in cheatgrass. Thinning and burning projects had been conducted on this site since 1996. Cheatgrass cover increased 90-fold on the thinned and burned plots between 1996 and 2003. While cheatgrass also increased on thinned plots that were not burned and the untreated control plots, the cover of cheatgrass remained low. There were two additional factors that may have influenced the cheatgrass invasion. In 2002, the region experienced the most extreme drought recorded in the past 100 years. Substantial rainfall returned to the area in September 2002, coincident with the timing of cheatgrass germination. Additionally, cattle were reintroduced to the study area in August 2002 after a four-year hiatus in grazing. We present data suggesting that the interaction of prescribed fire and small-diameter tree thinning, potentially exacerbated by cattle grazing and drought, was the primary cause of the spread of cheatgrass. Furthermore, we offer management recommendations for reducing the risk of non-native plant invasion on ecological restoration projects.
43443296|The dry deciduous forest of Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary in the Western Ghats of India is home to two indigenous groups, the Hill-pulayas and the Muthuvas. These groups have traditionally depended on the plant wealth of the area for food, medicine, and shelter. The establishment of a wildlife sanctuary in the area in 1984 and overharvesting in some areas by indigenous and other local people has reduced availability of plant resources, and many indigenous people have become farmers or laborers. In an attempt to restore populations of some of the more exploited plant species, and also to preserve the indigenous knowledge and lifestyle, an internationally funded project worked with local indigenous groups between 1996 and 2000 to restore oonjal (Albizia amara), pulivaka (Albizia odoratissima), venga (Pterocarpus marsupium), puli (Tamarindus indica), and neermaruthu (Terminalia arjuna). These five species were selected by forest inhabitants because the plants are heavily exploited, mainly as firewood. With the participation of local indigenous groups, seedlings were planted in three pit types: namely conventional square pits and experimental ring and saucer pits. Seedling survival results showed that the seedlings planted in the non-conventional ring and saucer pits fared better than those planted in conventional square pits. This paper describes the ethnobotanical aspects of the ecosystem and efforts to develop a participatory project to restore the forest's natural capital, to sustain indigenous knowledge, and to evaluate different pit planting types.
43443294|Little attention has been focused on evaluating river restoration projects. Postproject assessments commonly identify improvements in biological or physical conditions, but opportunities for understanding the interactions between such processes are often missed. This study assesses the linkages between geomorphological and ecological responses in three stream channels in Austin, Texas, restored since 1998 with riffles and steps and riparian planting along graded banks. Prerestoration topographic surveys and data for habitat and macroinvertebrate characteristics enabled comparisons with postrestoration conditions in 2007. Results showed increased channel widths and depths, leading to larger cross-sectional areas and inferred lowered velocities and unit stream power. Improvements in habitats included greater bank stability, less channel alteration, and more diverse velocity-depth regimes. Changes in functional feeding groups of macroinvertebrate communities were reflected in metrics of the Benthic Index of Biotic Integrity, including greater percentages of grazers, filterers, and collector-gatherers in the restored streams. A multivariate statistical model, redundancy analysis, linked improvement in key ecological response variables (taxa richness, % EPT, % grazers, and % chironomids) to better conditions in habitats (lower embeddedness, greater epifaunal cover, greater riparian vegetative width, and more velocity-depth regimes). Key explanatory changes in physical characteristics were increased cross-sectional area and decreased average velocity, which were attributed to restoration designs. These results suggest that although the main restoration goals were to stabilize eroding channels, improvements in physical characteristics could nevertheless lead to positive ecological outcomes. These findings suggest the potential of integrated approaches to target both physical and biological improvements in future restoration projects
43443231|The rea de Conservacin Guanacaste (ACG, Guanacaste Conservation Area) in northwestern Costa Rica in Central America was created to protect in perpetuity the rich natural diversity found there. The ACG contains an entire range of interconnected ecosystems from the Pacific coastal-marine zone, through dry and cloud forests, to the Caribbean rain forest. Generations of human pressures on the area, including ranching, agriculture, fires, timber extraction, and hunting, have degraded these ecosystems, which are now in a process of regeneration through protection from destructive human use. Although protection is an important part of conservation, the ACG's most potent tool for the long-term conservation of its natural resources is the "biocultural restoration" of its neighbors. The ACG's Programa de Educacin Biologica Biological Education Program) promotes the bioliteracy of local students, parents, and teachers through field-oriented workshops in its different ecosystems. Through the education of the surrounding community about its natural resources, PEB is restoring the biological understanding of its neighbors with the aim of creating a community that can make better-informed environmental decisions in the future.
43443139|As North American cities become increasingly diverse, urban ecological restoration needs to adopt a culturally inclusive framework. Using a review of urban ecological restoration literature, inclusive planning literature, and primary research collected from research in the City of Toronto, I examine ecological restoration efforts and offer recommendations for how urban ecological restoration can become responsive to the increasing racial diversity in North American cities.
43443260|In addition to their critical role in food crop production, pollinators keep natural plant communities healthy by assisting with plant reproduction. Currently, forest conditions in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests of the Intermountain West appear to be unfavorable for most insect pollinators. In an effort to reduce fire hazards and regain forest health in these forested landscapes, overstory thinning and prescribed burning are increasingly being applied. These treatments also have the potential to improve habitat for pollinating taxa. In this article, I focus on the potential effects of forest thinning, prescribed burning, and the accompanying incidental introduction of non-native species, as well as the potential impacts of herbivory by wild and domestic ungulates, on plant-pollinator interactions at sites undergoing restoration treatments. Lastly, I make management recommendations regarding how to mindfully conduct forest restoration for the benefit of insect pollinator assemblages despite the current lack of data.
43441263|Ecological restoration in North America traditionally has strived to return ecosystems to some semblance of the early historic (post-Columbian) condition. Emerging alternative paradigms recognize the large impacts exerted by pre-Columbian peoples, the ever-changing nature of ecosystems regardless of anthropogenic effects, and the possibility of using other benchmarks. Recently, the Turner Endangered Species Fund (TESF) initiated a project to restore the endangered bolson tortoise to an area in southern New Mexico within its late Pleistocene, but not historic, range. Justifications included the likelihood that prehistoric humans extirpated it from New Mexico, the presence of habitats similar to those in its current range in Mexico, and escalating threats to the species there. Thirty tortoises long kept captive outdoors in Arizona, another part of its prehistoric range, formed the basis for the restoration effort. The TESF and the Living Desert Zoo and Gardens State Park near Carlsbad, New Mexico, maintain the adults in outdoor enclosures, and incubate eggs and rear young in smaller facilities. The TESF is initiating studies to assess whether the species can persist in the wild in New Mexico. Restoring imperiled species to prehistoric ranges has some precedent in North America and, we believe, merits increasing consideration as historic ranges of some species offer increasingly less security.
43443166|Seeding of non-native species following wildfires to stabilize soils and prevent erosion has become a controversial practice because it risks inhibiting tree regeneration, introducing noxious weeds, and permanently replacing native species. This paper reports the fate of non-native seeded species during 31 years of postfire forest succession in northcentral Washington state, USA. In that region, catastrophic wildfires in grand fir (Abies grandis)/pinegrass (Calamagrostis rubescens) associations characteristically result in a flush of lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) regeneration that creates a dense tree monoculture. In the study, seven grass cultivars were broadcast seeded to prevent erosion, limit tree regeneration, and increase forage production for wildlife and livestock. Tree regeneration, native and non-native species cover, and aboveground biomass were evaluated in 1971,1975, 1980, 1989, and 2001. The seeded species quickly established dominant cover with levels of biomass production two to three times the level of native species. Density of tree regeneration was inversely correlated with perennial grass cover during the first 10 years. Between 1980 and 1989, the seeded grasses disappeared, long before tree canopy closure. Within 15 to 20 years native species had regained dominance, and after 30 years the last remnants of the non-native cultivars were replaced in the seeded areas by a diverse mixture of native graminoids, forbs, shrubs, and trees. In contrast, a monoculture of lodgepole pine dominated the unseeded areas. This study showed that non-native grasses seeded after wildfires do not always persist and can serve as a transition to restoring a more diverse serai community.
43443140|The Lower Passaic River (LPR), from the Dundee Dam to its confluence 17 miles (26 km) downstream with Newark Bay, has suffered severe degradation as a result of extensive urbanization and industrialization. A variety of restoration opportunities for the LPR have been posited by private and government entities; however, a comprehensive understanding of the LPR's ecological system is a necessary prerequisite to effective restoration planning. Key to restoration of an urban system are an understanding of the constraints imposed by the urban environment and a commitment to integrate this knowledge into restoration planning. The goal of our work was to characterize and quantify the physical and ecological attributes, referred to as "benchmarks," of various wetland and aquatic habitats that exist in the LPR. Ecological benchmarking allows restoration planners to comprehensively assess the environmental conditions of the system, analyze the physical and ecological factors influencing habitat development within the system, and learn from habitats that have succeeded despite prevailing constraints and conditions. Benchmarking provides an effective method for evaluating the potential scope for restoration within the system and for developing achievable criteria for success, taking into account both the ecological qualities of the watershed and the limitations of the urban setting. By including historical conditions as well as information from other ecosystems in the region, benchmarking can also be expanded to capture a larger universe of potential restoration objectives. Our work included a combination of literature reviews and field reconnaissance conducted in October 2005. From these activities, a preliminary conceptual framework and habitat matrix were developed to provide a foundation for evaluating potential restoration projects proposed for the LPR.
43441266|There is general consensus that ecological restoration of southwestern ponderosa pine systems is necessary and there exists ample ecological science suggesting that it is physically attainable. However, the pace of restoration has been noticeably slow and is far from approaching the landscape level. We conducted a review of published journal articles, book chapters, and proceedings on the restoration of ponderosa pine forests in the Southwest in order to identify and examine the primary socioeconomic barriers that are impeding the progress of ecological restoration in the region. The role of small-diameter wood utilization in the southwestern United States is highlighted as an example of broader, divergent socioeconomic contexts needing reconciliation if restoration is to expand to the ecosystem scale. A synthesis of opportunities for overcoming barriers and furthering the progress of forest restoration is provided.
43440717|We investigated the influence of three aggressive non-native invasive plants (pale swallowwort [Vincetoxicum rossicum], kudzu [Pueraria lobata], and Chinese privet [Ugustrum sinense]) on arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF). Our findings from central New York and southeastern Alabama forest habitats confirm that each species formed symbiotic associations with native AMF populations. Mycorrhizal dependency of kudzu was high when grown in invaded (85 percent) and non-invaded (83 percent) soil. The results indicate that invasion into new areas by non-native plant species may alter the occurrence of AMF in the resident soil. Evidence for a possible alteration in the AMF community was obtained largely from a Mycorrhiza Infection Potential bioassay. The bioassay indicated that root colonization levels by AMF of bait plants grown in soil collected from areas where the non-native plants formed pure stands were in general significantly greater than root colonization levels in soils collected from adjacent areas where the invasive plants were not present. Furthermore, the number of AMF spores in soil collected from areas invaded by pale swallow-wort was significantly higher than for nearby non-invaded soil. High colonization levels of pale swallow-wort roots with hyphae were observed during most of the growing season. The presence of arbuscules in pale swallow-wort roots was most evident in July and corresponds with the pre-flowering period of this species.
43443071|The highly urbanized Rahway River watershed in New Jersey suffers from frequent flooding due to extensive development and destruction of riparian wetlands and floodplains. A diverse group of stakeholders worked together to restore a 1.8 ha site on the floodplain to riparian wetland with the goals of providing wildlife habitat, filtering pollutants from stormwater runoff, providing stormwater retention to minimize flooding, and providing public access for passive recreation as well as education about wetlands and watershed management. This wetland restoration site has been incorporated into the Union County Parks System as the Michael S. Bezega Wetlands Observation Area. Due to the urban setting (14 houses were removed from the site), the project design and implementation were very complex. Developing the water budgets required analyses of the tidal Rahway River as well as stormwater runoff from local drainage areas. Funding was obtained from six different funding agencies, and the project was constructed largely with city and county public works personnel. Native plants were installed by volunteers who continue to do invasive species management at the site. Key factors contributing to the success of this project include extensive involvement of a diverse partnership of stakeholders, a multi-disciplinary project team, thorough up-front design and engineering analyses, careful selection of vegetation palettes based on analyses of reference wetlands, and extensive on-site supervision of the construction crews by personnel who could make design decisions in the field.
43443264|Antelope grass (Echinochloa pyramidalis) is an African grass species used for cattle grazing in Mexican wetlands. It has been introduced because of its tolerance to flooding and is now a widespread invasive. In this work, we present the advances of a freshwater marsh restoration project represented by bulltongue (Sagittaria lancifolia) but invaded by antelope grass. This project began in 2007 with the goals of eliminating antelope grass and other problematic species, increasing the cover of the native vegetation, and recovering habitat for waterfowl. Two sets of controls were established (in the remaining marsh and the inundated grassland) along with three other managed sites (variations of clipping by hand, drowning the cut plants, burning, covering with black plastic, or selectively applying herbicide). With two years of restoration activities, the antelope grass was almost completely eliminated, remaining only in one control set. The dry conditions of 2009 have favored the resprouting of the invader, but it still has low cover values. Pickerelweed (Pontederia sagittata), cattail (Typha domingensis), and bulltongue have appeared with high cover values in most of the quadrats in almost all sites. Plant species richness has increased with time. Amphibians and reptiles have varied through time but are showing a slight increasing trend. El zacate alemn (Echinochloa pyramidalis) es una gramnea de origen africano que se utiliza para el pastoreo de ganado bovino en humedales del sureste mexicano. La introduccin de esta especie en estos ecosistemas es debida a su tolerancia al exceso de agua y a su adaptacin al forrajeo, caractersticas que le han conferido la capacidad de invadir los humedales. El presente trabajo presenta los avances de un proyecto de restauracin de un humedal herbceo de agua dulce representado por Sagittaria lancifolia pero invadido por zacate alemn. Este proyecto inici en el ao 2007 con los objetivos de eliminar a la especie invasora y a otras especies problemticas, incrementar la cobertura de la vegetacin nativa y recuperar hbitat para fauna acutica. Se establecieron dos sitios control (uno en el popal-tular remanente y otro en el pastizal inundado) y tres sitios manejados (corte selectivo de la vegetacin, incremento del nivel de inundacin o disminucin del nivel topogrfico, incendios controlados, colocacin de plstico negro sobre la vegetacin o aplicacin selectiva de herbicida sistmico). Dos aos despus de iniciadas las actividades de restauracin se ha logrado la eliminacin casi completa del zacate alemn, quedando slo presente en el control del pastizal inundado. El ao 2009 ha sido muy seco, favoreciendo la presencia de rebrotes de la especie invasora. Se han detectado valores de cobertura elevados de especies nativas como Pontederia sagittata, tule (Typha domingensis) y Sagittaria lancifolia en la mayora de los cuadros de monitoreo de casi todos los sitios manejados. La riqueza de especies vegetales se ha incrementado con el tiempo. Asimismo, se ha detectado que el nmero de especies de anfibios y reptiles ha tenido una fluctuacin a lo largo del tiempo con ligera tendencia a aumentar hacia el final del periodo de estudio.
43441236|The Sunshine Coast of Queensland, Australia, is facing increasing pressure from rapid urban expansion. Because of the area's high biodiversity, developers are facing pressure to translocate rare, endangered, and vulnerable plants to more protected areas. Translocation of turves, comprising sections of soil and intact aboveground vegetation, has been used as a strategy for reintroducing understory species where establishment from seed is difficult. Moving populations spatially can change levels and direction of gene flow. In what appears to be one of the largest reported translocations of a rare species, this study uses allozymes, which are variant forms of enzymes, to investigate the genetics of a population of the rare heath species Boronia rivularis, which is to be translocated to compensate for an urban development. The population on the development site was found to be significant due to its large size and high genetic diversity and distinctiveness. Diversity and inbreeding levels were not evenly distributed across the development site; inbreeding was highest where density was highest. It was found that retention of a significant portion of the population on the development site reduced the potential loss of connectivity. However, we found that ecological assessments based on density could have led to the loss of the most genetically diverse and least inbred parts of the population.
43441126|Curtis Prairie, renowned as the world's earliest ecological restoration site, was invaded by reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea) after urban stormwater inflows cut a creek and inundated a 2000-m floodplain. We evaluated the edaphic conditions directly downstream from a stormwater retention pond to determine if sedimentation, nutrients, or elevated groundwater might have favored growth of this wetland weed. A definite signature of urban stormwater influence on reed canary grass expansion is strongly indicated by enriched nutrients (bioavailable phosphorus, nitrate-nitrogen), salt (sodium), and metals (copper and zinc), each of which was significantly elevated in the invasion area and downstream in a sedge meadow. Sodium could have dispersed clays and reduced the soil's infiltration capacity, thereby impounding water. We evaluated soil and hydrologie conditions in order to develop a conceptual model of the invasion process in Curtis Prairie. We suggest that 1) stormwater outflow from the retention pond initiated erosion; 2) reed canary grass established alongside the eroded creek and expanded vegetatively into the prairie as native plants succumbed to flooding; 3) contaminants were continuously delivered onto the floodplain, degrading soil structure and promoting aggressive growth of reed canary grass; and 4) fine-grained sediments and organic matter were transported downstream to the sedge meadow, possibly contributing to future reed canary grass expansion into this area.
43440716|The silphium borer moth (Papaipema silphii), a rare endemic insect in midwestern prairies, completes one life cycle per year and has a short dispersal distance. The moth eggs are presumably laid in the duff near host Silphium plants. Silphium species distributions are primarily restricted to fragmented prairie patches, commonly in upland habitats that can burn more intensely than lowland patches. Thus, these moths must cope with existence in a fire-prone environment. Currently, there is controversy regarding how prescribed fire affects the sustainability of prairie invertebrate populations. We counted larval densities of silphium borer moths within thirty-four 0.1-ha plots in three isolated southern Wisconsin prairies with different burn patterns. The median density of larvae was significantly lower in the rotationally burned prairie than in one of the prairies that has been repeatedly burned edge-to-edge. Larval densities did not differ significantly between recently burned and recently unburned plots. These findings suggest that prescribed fires are not endangering the silphium borer moth, regardless of burn method, at least at these three sites. However, more studies at more locations are needed. We still recommend burning only two-thirds of isolated prairies every year.
43441330|Since being introduced for rangeland improvements in the early to mid-20th century, several non-native grass species have spread beyond their initial planting sites in the American Southwest. Many of these species, especially those that have infiltrated desert ecosystems, can alter fire regimes, which in turn threatens native plant species. In Arizona desert ecosystems, buffelgrass (Pennisetum ciliare) increases fire frequency and intensity, which may create a positive feedback loop, resulting in a shift from native fire-sensitive plant communities to non-native grasslands. Although control efforts are currently underway, a more comprehensive ecosystem approach will be required to treat buffelgrass invasions in southeastern Arizona's deserts. Here, we evaluate the species and environmental factors that may contribute to plant invasion success. We highlight empirical buffelgrass literature as it pertains to invasion, integrate basic invasion ecology theory and restoration ecology to examine potential practical approaches for controlling buffelgrass invasions in southeastern Arizona, and use this information to provide the basis for comprehensive restoration and management. We also briefly discuss public policy related to buffelgrass control in the southwestern United States.
43443051|Funding for ecological restoration efforts sometimes ends prematurely and exacerbates problems that originally were the rationale for the project. In our test of methods to manage exotic species, we mimicked this real world situation and compared management after one year with no ecological restoration with exotic species management continued yearly for five years and followed by ecological restoration (transplanting adult plants of four native species) in year five. Our study site in Ontario, Canada consisted of eight fragmented woodlots dominated by sugar maple (Acer saccharum) and American beech (Fagus grandifolia) that supported dense populations of the exotic species garlic mustard (Alliaria petiolota), dame's rocket (Hesperis matronalis), and celandine (Chelidonium majus). In 1998, we quantified the impact and duration of one-time use of glyphosate, hand-pulling, inflorescence clipping, and mulch on the seedbank and shoots of three exotic species, native herbaceous species, and (for shoots, non-adult) native species of shrubs and trees. By 2006, above-and belowground densities of exotic species significantly increased and native species significantly decreased with one-time treatments of glyphosate and hand-pulling (ANOVA). The exotic species recovered quickly from one-time application of glyphosate, and hand-pulling disturbed the soil and increased relative emergence of exotic species from seed. As expected, inflorescence clipping and mulching were ineffective as one-time treatments but did not worsen the exotic species problem or decrease native species' densities. The repeated management plus ecological restoration was more successful in all cases, with similar results by 2006, while one-time application of glyphosate and hand-pulling worsened problems. We caution that initiating exotic species management can be risky if funding is not secure enough to support longer term efforts.
43441121|An effort to restore wet tropical forest in Costa Rica began in 1993 with plantings of native trees in abandoned pasture land. We compared understory plant species richness in three sites planted with a mix of native tree species with understory species in two monoculture plantations and in two secondary growth (unplanted) areas. Understory species in nearby primary forest remnants are also reported for comparison. We identified 356 understory species, ranging from 46 to 134 understory species per plot. Woody species were predominant (50-80%), as were plant species relying on animals for seed dispersal (60-80%). Our data indicate that substantial progress toward understory species richness can be obtained in the first decade of wet tropical forest restoration.
43443012|Previous studies of vegetation establishment in dam removal sites have shown that natural vegetation community establishment is highly variable and frequently includes species often considered undesirable in restorations. In this article, we examined two case studies where dam removal sites were planted with native species following dam removal in an effort to promote native species establishment and exclude invasive species. Some planted species established soon after the dam removals, but surveys four years later showed a decline in planted species and an increase in non-native species. In both cases, reed canarygrass (Phafons arundinacea) became well established in the interval between surveys. A seedbank analysis of sediments from four intact reservoirs with similar physical characteristics to the removal sites showed that reed canarygrass is not active in the seedbank. This suggests that there may be an opportunity to exclude it from dam removal sites if management actions are taken after removal. However, in these two cases, planting following removal did not exclude reed canarygrass and few of the planted species persisted four years after planting.
43441300|Predicted changes in climate present unusual challenges to conservation planners, land managers, and restoration efforts directed toward preserving biodiversity. Successful organisms will respond to these changes by persisting in suitable microsites, adapting to novel conditions, or dispersing to new sites. We describe three general categories of strategies for restoring and managing natural systems in light of likely changes in future climate that collectively embrace many of the approaches that The Nature Conservancy is applying or considering in the state of Washington. Component redundancy suggests that in natural systems greater ecosystem resilience, despite changing climates, may be achieved by increasing species and community redundancy. Functional redundancy is the idea that different components of a system can fulfill the same functions, thereby producing the same result. Restoration projects and managers of natural systems can introduce ecologically equivalent species or novel associations of species, which may help avoid losses in biodiversity. Increased connectivity suggests that success is achieved by ensuring that suitable habitats are always within easy reach of one another. This includes conservation approaches that provide linkages, corridors, or other mechanisms to facilitate the movement of organisms as they respond to climate changes. We acknowledge that these approaches are not without risk, nor do they necessarily ensure success. However, we propose them as potential solutions among a growing suite of alternative strategies for incorporating climate change into conservation actions.
43440693|Land managers in North America have battled leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), an invasiveexotic plant introduced from Eurasia, for more than half a century. We chronicle a ten-year adaptive management project by The Nature Conservancy to control leafy spurge on a prairie preserve in the Prairie Coteau region of South Dakota. We documented the effectiveness of three biological control agentsdomestic goats (Capra hircus), domestic sheep (Ovis aries), and flea beetles (Apthona czwalinae, A. lacertosa, and A. nigriscutis)in the control of this noxious plant. In addition, we measured the response of the native plant community to control treatments and to competition with leafy spurge in untreated areas. Vertebrate grazers failed to reduce the cover of leafy spurge after five years, although goats prevented its expansion. In contrast, flea beetles dramatically reduced the cover and expansion of leafy spurge. Species richness declined in untreated plots during the first five years of the study in comparison with actively managed plots. The decline in native species richness in unmanaged plots demonstrated the consequences of leaving invasive species populations unchecked, even for relatively short periods of time.
43443074|The Kings Bay, Crystal River complex, located in Citrus County, Florida, is one of the world's largest spring-fed ecosystems and a critical warm-water refuge for endangered Florida manatees. Unfortunately, large areas of Kings Bay are currently in a state of ecological degradation characterized by smothering mats of the filamentous cyanobacterium Lyngbya wollei. The causes of this ecosystem shift are not well understood, although it is often suggested that human-caused nutrient loading into the Bay combined with intermittent saltwater intrusions from storm surges may be responsible. In this article, we present results from interviews with local citizens, a review of aquatic plant literature, and research into the history of ecological change in Kings Bay. Our work indicates that management efforts to eradicate invasive exotic aquatic species may also have played an important role in the dominance of L wollei. We suggest that future restoration efforts should follow a logic of "alternative stable states" that focuses primarily on the recovery of desired ecosystem functions and relaxes the assumption that exotic plants should be minimized. The Kings Bay case study points toward a more adaptive conception of ecological restoration, one informed by local knowledge and open to the utilization of established exotic plants as a tool for maintaining or restoring important ecological attributes.
43443261|Reed canarygrass (Phalaris arundinacea) is a widely distributed invasive species that dominates many natural areas and restoration sites. Cost-effective suppression and restoration strategies need to be developed for plant communities affected by this species. Pretreatments designed to disrupt rhizome apical dominance may augment herbicide performance by making reed canarygrass rhizomes more susceptible to herbicide applications. I tested whether coupling pretreatment disking or kinetin application to herbicide application would enhance chemical control relative to only solitary herbicide application. I also evaluated the relative performance of two grass-selective herbicides, sethoxydim and fluazifop. All treatments suppressed reed canarygrass and indirectly led to improvements in existing native species abundance compared to the untreated control. In terms of reed canarygrass suppression, non-reed canarygrass aboveground biomass, and species diversity (Shannon's diversity), fluazifop performed as well as sethoxydim. Reed canarygrass biomass was consistently lower in plots where either disking or kinetin pretreatments were coupled with herbicide application than in plots receiving only herbicide treatment, though the degree of additional suppression varied with choice of herbicide. When sethoxydim was used for follow-up herbicide applications, disking reduced reed canarygrass biomass more than the kinetin pretreatment, but when fluazifop was used, kinetin pretreatments and disking were similar in their suppressive effect. Results of this study suggest that coupling these pretreatments with herbicide application can improve grassselective herbicide performance on reed canarygrass.
43441329|In many regions and across many different types of forest ownership, there is an increasing emphasis on developing a more holistic approach to forest ecosystem management, one that is more focused on emulating the outcomes of natural disturbance patterns. However, the complexity involved in such an approach, both ecologically and socioeconomically, presents many decisionmaking challenges. This study was a first step in a structured decisionmaking approach aimed at encouraging more informed management choices. The goal was to identify fundamental management objectives and alternatives for management through open-ended interviews with 13 land managers of mixed-pine forest ecosystems in eastern Upper Michigan. The results indicate that where mixed-pine forest ecosystem management is concerned (including management with a restoration emphasis), ecologically motivated objectives such as restoring ecosystem integrity take precedence over socioeconomically motivated objectives like providing forest products. The reverse is true for fire management, where socioeconomic objectives like protecting public safety take precedence over ecological objectives. Despite interest in restoring fire, or using fire as one of many management tools to help emulate natural disturbances, land managers felt their options were limited by uncertainty about the potential risks to their management objectives. They also faced difficult trade-offs between achieving short-versus long-term objectives, as well as significant external barriers such as institutional mandates. These results highlight the need for decision-support tools that will assist managers in balancing competing objectives and making difficult trade-offs in highly complex decision contexts.
43443141|Planning is the first step toward efficient ecosystem restoration. Friends of the John Heinz National Wildlife Refuge near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, was awarded funding through the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation's Delaware Estuary Grant Program to develop a restoration plan for the lower reaches of Darby Creek, which runs through the refuge. Managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the refuge was established by an act of Congress in 1972 to protect the last 81 hectares of freshwater tidal marsh in Pennsylvania. The Delaware Riverkeeper Network was hired in 2005 to carry out an integrated planning effort. The resulting Restoration Management Plan for the Lower Darby Creek, completed in May 2006, combined historical research, aerial photo and map analysis, personal interviews, stakeholder feedback, field research, and data management. The creation of the plan offers a case study to inform other restoration planning efforts for large, diverse areas.
43440719|Many calcareous fen meadows in central Europe have been destroyed in the last two centuries, but now there are several projects to restore them. Unfortunately, excessive establishment of volunteer willows (Salix spp.) can considerably inhibit the establishment of the plant species to be re-introduced, especially when the sod is not yet closed. To control willow establishment, we experimentally tested the influence of sowing times for fen species (autumn, spring), soil cover treatments (straw layers, plastic), and tilling on the establishment of goat willow (Salix caprea) and the fen species themselves. Plastic covering or a thick layer of straw at 3.7 pounds/yd (2.0 kg/m) during the willows' germination time in May almost completely inhibited the establishment of the willows. Fen species sown after removing these layers became established at intermediate levels of roughly 50 individuals/yd (60 individuals/m). Fen species had the highest establishment with no cover (119 individuals/yd,142 individuals/m); however, willows establishment was also highest in those plots (about 3 individuals/yd,4 individuals/m). Tilling showed intermediate results for both willows and fen species. We suggest the use of a thick straw layer (more than 3.0 lbs/yd) or plastic cover in May to reduce large numbers of willows. These layers have to be removed before sowing the fen species. If the presence of willow seeds is low, straw can be reduced to 1.0 lb/yd, which will be low enough to allow the establishment of fen species with the straw remaining on the soil.
43443040|Forest restoration in southwestern ponderosa pine forests often consists of tree thinning and prescribed fire. Understanding the effects of thinning treatments on soil integrity is important due to the potential negative effects on soil properties and plant composition and abundance. We investigated the effects of harvest severity levels (control, low, intermediate, high) and harvest systems (machine, hand, whole-tree) on soil profile disturbance, soil bulk density, and dead woody biomass. There were no significant differences in soil profile disturbance, soil bulk density, or dead woody biomass among harvest severity levels. The whole-tree harvest system produced significantly larger areas with high levels of soil profile disturbance and significantly smaller areas with no soil disturbance than either the machine-or handharvest systems. There were no significant differences in soil bulk density due to insufficient sampling design. Dead woody biomass was significantly lower in the whole-tree harvested areas than the hand-or machine-harvested areas. Dead woody biomass can play an important role in providing microsites for plant reestablishment following disturbance. Our results illustrate that the type of harvest system used in forest restoration treatments is an important factor that needs to be incorporated into forest restoration design to insure compatibility with overall restoration goals.
43443263|Pine-oak forests cover 14.2 million hectares in Mexico, a country that has the richest pine and oak diversity in the world. These diverse forests are a source of goods and services for rural and urban society, but they are being degraded and deforested. A cause of degradation is the alteration of the fire regime caused by fire exclusion or excessive burning. Little information is available on how to restore ecologically appropriate fire regimes in Mexican pine-oak ecosystems. Less is known about the fire ecology of the oak species. To determine which of these pine-oak and oak forests are firemaintained and which are sensitive to fires, and to provide insight into the restoration of appropriate fire regimes, this paper categorizes oak species according to the following characteristics: climate and type of vegetation, environment and succession, fire regime, growth form, vegetative regeneration, regeneration niche, acorn size, foliage type, bark thickness, subgenus, and understory. Frequent low-intensity surface fires are recommended for the restoration and maintenance of many of these forests and to reduce the ecological, economic, and firefighting impacts that result from large-magnitude wildfires, although it is recognized that for some species of pine and oak, periodic high-intensity fires are required. Because the source of more than 40% of the wildfires in Mexico is agricultural and grazing activities, it is essential to consider the needs of rural communities who use fire for their livelihood, and how burning might help restore and maintain these ecosystems. Los bosques de pino-encino cubren 14.2 millones de hectreas en Mxico, pas que cuenta con la mayor diversidad de pinos y encinos en el planeta. Estos bosques son fuente de bienes y servicios para la sociedad rural y urbana, pero estn siendo degradados y deforestados. Una fuente de degradacin es la alteracin de los regmenes de fuego ocasionada por la exclusin del fuego o por incendios excesivos. Existe poca informacin relativa a la restauracin de regmenes de fuego ecolgicamente adecuados en los ecosistemas de pino-encino mexicanos. Hay todava menos informacin sobre la ecologa del fuego en encinares. Para determinar cules de esos bosques son mantenidos por los incendios, cules son sensibles y proveer informacin para la restauracin de regmenes de fuego adecuados, este trabajo categoriza las especies de encinos acorde con las siguientes caractersticas: clima y tipo de vegetacin, ambiente y sucesin, rgimen de fuego, forma de crecimiento, regeneracin vegetativa, nicho de regeneracin, tamao de la bellota, tipo de follaje, grosor de corteza, subgnero y sotobosque. El fuego frecuente, de baja intensidad, es recomendado para la restauracin y mantenimiento de muchos de estos bosques y para reducir los impactos ecolgicos, econmicos y de combate que resultan de incendios de gran magnitud, aunque se reconoce que para algunas especies de pino y encino se necesita fuego peridico de alta intensidad. Debido a que la fuente de ms de 40 por ciento de los incendios en Mxico son las actividades agropecuarias, es esencial considerar la necesidad de la gente en las comunidades rurales, quienes utilizan el fuego en sus sistemas de produccin, y cmo el uso del fuego puede ayudar a restaurar y a mantener estos ecosistemas.
43443136|Ecological restoration is a cultural choice. I understand our world to be in a crisis of perception: we see ourselves as separate or somehow independent from the natural world. As an artist and a restoration ist, I have always sought to foster a sense of reconnection between human culture and the natural world. I try to help people see how, even in the face of dramatic ecological damage, our individual actions will make a difference. Part of the answer is to return to the source with the tools of the future. Through my art, and specifically the imaging of biodiversity, I work to let the life forms of nature express their own beauty, their character, diversity, adaptation, and resilience. For me, this is also work to restore the role of art as visionary vehicle in human civilization.
43443192|We combined burning and rotational grazing in an effort to promote persistence of recently established native grasses. The experiment took place on a farm in south-central Wisconsin on a cool-season grass pasture that was drill seeded with native warm-season grasses: big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii), Indiangrass (Sorghastrum nutans), and switchgrass (Panicum virgatum). We used a split-plot experimental design to assess native grass persistence undervaluing disturbance treatments (burned, burned-grazed, and grazed). We used a paired t-test to determine if the difference between 2006 and 2007 native grass density was significantly different from zero. Native grass tiller density increased under the burned (202%) and grazed (186%) treatments, but not the burned-grazed (29%) treatment. However, the actual native grass tiller numbers in 2007 were much higher in the burned-only than the grazed-only treatment (80  10 tillers/m and 2  1 tillers/m, respectively). We found no loss to native grass tiller density when rotational grazing was applied to plots in the first year after two years of grazing exclusion with burning. In addition, we found that native grass cover was greatest in the burned treatment but not significantly different in the burned-grazed and grazed treatments. Our results suggest that the combined use of burning and grazing as a management tool for native grass persistence in pastures may be possible with deferred grazing during the establishment phase, but alternative timing, intensity, and types of grazing animals should be tested.
43443038|Investigations into the causes of variation in native bunchgrass distributions in California are constrained by the rarity of extant populations, their highly invaded nature, and their diverse and often unknown historical backgrounds. In addition, the correlates of success in California grassland restoration projects are rarely monitored. While controlling for seeding densities, we investigated correlates of establishment success for a mix of native bunchgrasses seeded into a non-native annual grassland with a history of agriculture and grazing in Yolo County, California. Six native grass speciesblue wildrye (Elymus glaucus), big squirreltail (Elymus multisetus), Idaho fescue (Festuca idahoensis), California melicgrass (Melica californica), purple needlegrass (Nassella pulchra), and Sandberg bluegrass (Poa secunda)were drill seeded in the fall of 1999. In order to minimize recruitment of non-native annual grass seed, the land was prepared with a spring burn and fall application of glyphosate prior to seeding. Through the third growing season, the cover of planted native grasses was significantly greater on north-facing slopes than on slopes with southern aspects. This was likely due to more mesic conditions on such sites rather than reduced competition with non-native plants. In the first growing season, distinct dense patches of filaree (Erodium botrys) became apparent. Native bunchgrasses overall, non-native grasses, and non-native forbs all had significantly less cover inside these patches of filaree. Purple needlegrass was an exception to both of these trends, being insensitive to both aspect and filaree patches. These results reinforce the reputation of purple needlegrass as a species with wide ecological tolerance and excellent restoration potential.
43443293|The removal of non-native species is often an important restoration goal in natural areas, including national parks. There is often a positive correlation between non-native and native plant species richness, so that areas with the greatest number of native species support the greatest number of non-natives. This pattern may create both challenges and opportunities for restoration. Native species may be inadvertently damaged or killed during mechanical or chemical treatments targeted toward non-natives. However, greater numbers of native species may better colonize subsequent openings. We used data from an ongoing active management project in Grand Canyon National Park to test three predictions of plant community response to invasive tamarisk (Tamarix spp.) removal. We investigated patterns of native and nonnative species abundance and richness, compositional shifts, and the relationship between native and non-native species before and after treatments. In general, native species richness and abundance did not increase, but species composition following tamarisk removal tended to become more similar to that in uninvaded stands. Native and non-native species richness and abundance were positively correlated before tamarisk removal. While treatment successfully reduced cover of tamarisk after one to three years, our results suggest that it may not increase richness of native species during the same period. Furthermore, investigating native and non-native species relationships may be a useful tool for exploring hypotheses and consequences of restoration via invasive species removal.
43441124|Exotic plants are invading federal lands at an estimated rate of 1,862 ha each day, reducing the natural diversity many of these places were set aside to protect. Effective invasive species management must be based on thorough knowledge of these species' locations and distributions, modes and rates of spread, potential and known effects, and control methods. We mapped the location and distribution of 50 exotic plant species in two Arizona national monuments using state-ofthe-art GIS and GPS technologies. The Alien Plants Ranking System was used to prioritize species for management and develop an exotic plant management plan for the park units. Other project goals included testing the efficacy of roaming surveys for exotic plant mapping using standards suggested by the North American Weed Management Association and creating a basis for future monitoring of weed populations. Mapping weeds digitally offers many advantages including increased speed and accuracy, enhanced data sharing capabilities, and easy updates, all of which aid in establishing management priorities and providing a baseline for future monitoring efforts.
43440697|Environmental resource gradients affect plant establishment during invasive weed management and ecological restoration. We investigated how hydrology and nitrogen (N) availability influence establishment of native and invasive species along a dry-wet gradient. We hypothesized that 1) emergence and growth would be higher in subirrigated environments than in saturated or dry environments; 2) annuals and invasive exotics would respond more to N availability than late-successional perennials; and 3) N effects would be greatest in subirrigated environments. In the greenhouse, seedling emergence was uniform across dry to subirrigated pots for upland species and across subirrigated to saturated, but not flooded, pots for riparian species. Seedling biomass was greatest in subirrigated environments. Seedling emergence in the field was at or near zero for most species in subirrigated sites. In the greenhouse, biomass increased with N availability, and responses to N were greatest in subirrigated pots. In both experiments, the upland invasive, spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa), responded more to N availability than bluebunch wheatgrass (Agropyron spicatum). However, such differences were not found for the riparian species, possibly due to low emergence. Possible explanations for low emergence in subirrigated field sites include predation by small rodents, which were more active in the transition than upland or wetland areas. Establishment of spotted knapweed and Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense) in riparian sites was limited by poor germination and seedling survival. Once established, growth was good in subirrigated environments, indicating that weeds may invade riparian sites in spite of poor initial establishment, which suggests caution when contemplating ecological restoration practices that increase N availability.
43441335|Lantana (Lontana camara), one of the world's most troublesome invasive weeds, has become a menace in most of the protected areas located in tropical and subtropical belt of India. The lantana-infested landscapes not only are impoverished as habitats of wildlife but also contribute to human-wildlife conflicts owing to diminished ecosystem services. This paper is a case study of successful eradication and restoration of two lantana-invaded sites in Corbett Tiger Reserve, India. A method for eradicating lantana was developed using knowledge about its ecology, and, subsequently, weedfree landscapes were restored to productive grasslands and mixed woodlands using native species. The restoration of these areas to grassland communities has successfully prevented secondary invasions by lantana and other weeds and has enhanced the habitat quality for herbivores whose populations are vital for the survival of top carnivores such as tiger (Panthera tigris corbetti).
43443111|Near the Paricutn volcano in the state of Michoacn, Mxico, agricultural lands were covered with volcanic ash when the volcano erupted multiple times between 1943 and 1952. These lands persist today as barren and mostly devoid of vegetation. Restoration of these lands is limited by high ground surface temperatures during the dry season (close to 70C at noon) and other factors such as damage by herbivores and storm run-off. We used mulch to overcome the main barrier represented by the high ground surface temperatures, which allowed for the reintroduction of the dominant native pine species. When we did not mulch, and particularly during dry years, pine mortality was close to 100%. This led to the unanticipated consequence of a shrub, hierba de golpe (Eupatorium glabratum), establishing in the sites where the planted trees had died. The shrub, although native, precludes the establishment of other native plant species and creates conditions that are even more of a challenge to restoration. The most efficient measure for restoring sites invaded by hierba de golpe is the elimination of the shrubs and with them the layer of volcanic ash. This case study illustrates the importance of approaching restoration as an adaptive management practice because unexpected outcomes are unavoidable, particularly in sites with complex histories of disturbance.
43441304|We consider potential impacts of global climate change for restoration practitioners in Wisconsin through a discussion of restoration and land management at the University of Wisconsin-Madison Arboretum. Created to provide an outdoor research and teaching laboratory for university faculty, staff, and students, the Arboretum has been restoring and managing dynamic examples of the native plant communities of Wisconsin for 75 years. We discuss how climate change might influence historical restoration goals, as well as contemporary issues such as stormwater, extreme precipitation events, and changes in the effectiveness of restoration techniques.
43443110|At 460 hectares, the Paul Sarbanes Environmental Restoration Project at Poplar Island, Talbot County, Maryland, represents the largest "beneficial use" dredged material project of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (a cooperative project with Maryland Port Administration). Begun in 1998, the 15-year restoration project will ultimately consist of roughly 220 ha of uplands and 220 ha of tidal wetland habitats, with limited areas of dike roads, perimeter riprap, and unvegetated mudflats. Wetland restoration began in one small section (or "cell") in 2002, but not all cells will be filled with dredged material until at least 2013. As a major objective of the restoration, six species of waterbirds were identified as "priority species" for Chesapeake Bay: American black duck (Anas rubripes), snowy egret (Egretta thula), cattle egret (Bubulcus ibis), osprey (Pandion haliaetus), common tern (Sterna hirundo), and least tern (5. antillarum). Monitoring of nesting activities of these species from 2002 to 2005 indicated that all species except black ducks colonized the site rapidly. More than 800 pairs of common terns nested in 2003 to 2004. Because of prdation by red fox (Vulpes vulpes) and great horned owl (Bubo virginianus), reproductive success was very low for the terns. Trapping was effective in removing the foxes, and other controls have been applied to opportunistic nesting species including herring gulls (Larus argentatus) and Canada geese (Branta canadensis). An effective public education program on the island has helped address concerns about animal control.
43443164|Intensive campground use at the Grant Grove area of Kings Canyon National Park, California, has compacted the soil and left areas without understory vegetation or tree recruitment. To better inform the restoration of these sites after closure, we tested natural regeneration potential and planting and soil restoration methods. The tested methods included planting with container stock and direct seeding, fencing, and soil treatments of tilling, mulching, and gypsum and humus additions. Container stock had high survivorship (69-100%), while germination and survival from direct seeding was low (0.6-4.1%). Wood chip mulch was beneficial to planting woody species, but detrimental to resident herbaceous species. Plots treated with tilling and gypsum, and humus amendments exhibited highest growth rates of container stock and greatest herbaceous species richness and cover. However, tilling without the other soil treatments reduced herbaceous cover and seedling recruitment (natural and sown). In tilled plots, gypsum treatments and humus treatments often had neutral or detrimental effects individually, but their combination greatly increased the success of direct seeding, growth of container stock, and herbaceous cover and richness. Fencing increased volunteer tree recruitment tenfold compared to outside the plots. Some treatments in this study were beneficial to species of one morphological group but detrimental to another.
43443053|A 0.5-ha Illinois prairie was restored in 1988. By 2005 the site increased in traits indicative of high quality remnant prairies. Weighted Mean Fidelity and the proportion of native species increased over time. Exotic weeds (e.g. smooth brome [Bromus inermis], dandelion [Taraxacum officinale], black medic [Medicago lupulina], and Kentucky bluegrass [Poa pratensis]) became less frequent and high quality species (purple coneflower [Echinacea pallida], purple prairie clover [Dalea purpurea], stiff goldenrod [Solidago rigida], and rattlesnake master [Eryngium yuccifolium]) increased in frequency. After deer hunting began in 1994, stiff goldenrod and rosinweed had smaller proportions of their stems browsed by deer. Mean Coefficient of Conservatism was similar to a local high quality remnant prairie.
43443014|We studied the effect of two years of sawdust addition on the growth of native perennial grasses in a site where we manually removed two introduced nitrogen-fixing shrubs, French broom (Genista monspessulana) and Scotch broom (Cytisus scoparius) in central coastal California. We tested the hypothesis that sawdust addition to soil would reduce plant-available nitrogen levels, and thereby decrease the competitive effect of fast-growing exotic annual grasses on slower-growing native perennial grasses. Sawdust did not alter the competitive interaction between annuals and native perennials: native perennial grass seedlings were greatly suppressed by the presence of annuals and this was not changed by sawdust addition. In the absence of competition with annuals, we observed both direct stimulation and suppression by sawdust on native species. Annual grass biomass did not respond to sawdust addition. Nitrogenxarbon ratios of leaf tissue were similar across all species, suggesting that both annuals and perennials responded similarly to depletion of soil resources. Our results confirm that although it is possible to use sawdust to reduce nitrogen availability in broom-invaded soils, it is difficult to target the species that will benefit.
43441237|In the northern Great Plains, native prairies managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) can be pivotal in conservation of North America's biological diversity. From 2002 to 2006, we surveyed 7,338 belt transects to assess the general composition of mixed-grass and tallgrass prairie vegetation across five "complexes" (i.e., administrative groupings) of national wildlife refuges managed by the Service in North Dakota and South Dakota. Native grasses and forbs were common (mean frequency of occurrence 47%-54%) on two complexes but uncommon (4%-13%) on two others. Conversely, an introduced species of grass, smooth brome (Bromus inermis), accounted for 4 5% to 49% of vegetation on two complexes and another species, Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) accounted for 27% to 36% of the vegetation on three of the complexes. Our data confirm prior suspicions of widespread invasion by introduced species of plants on Service-owned tracts of native prairie, changes that likely stem in part from a common management history of little or no disturbance (e.g., defoliation by grazing or fire). However, variability in the degree and type of invasion among prairie tracts suggests that knowledge of underlying causes (e.g., edaphic or climatic factors, management histories) could help managers more effectively restore prairies. We describe an adaptive management approach to acquire such knowledge while progressing with restoration. More specifically, we propose to use data from inventories of plant communities on Service-owned prairies to design and implement, as experiments, optimal restoration strategies. We will then monitor these experiments and use the results to refine future strategies. This comprehensive, process-oriented approach should yield reliable and robust recommendations for restoration and maintenance of native prairies in the northern Great Plains.
43441265|Summer farewell (Dalea pinnata) is a legume found in upland ecosystems throughout the southeastern United States. Often used in seed mixes for restoration purposes, it represents an opportunity for the emerging native seed industry in this region. Yet its germination characteristics are not well known. Our objective was to assess the germination timing and potential dormancy mechanisms of summer farewell. We specifically addressed the following questions: 1) to what extent do seeds germinate after shedding? 2) do seeds possess physical dormancy? and 3) can germination be enhanced using dormancy-breaking treatments? Summer farewell seeds germinated to a limited extent upon shedding, and most seeds (> 75%) in the population were shed with water-impermeable coats, or physical dormancy. Germination occurred equally well in light or darkness. Remaining ungerminated seeds displayed a high degree of viability (> 90%) after one year of burial. Thus summer farewell seeds are capable of forming soil seed banks. Scarification followed by incubation at constant temperatures yielded high germination. Germination of mechanically scarified seeds was superior to seeds scarified in acid for 5 or 10 minutes and unscarified seeds. However, incubation at 35C may be deleterious. We discuss recommendations for restoration practitioners and seed producers.
43443142|Blue mussels (Mytilus edulis) were transplanted into South Mill Pond, a degraded tidal salt pond in Portsmouth NH. As part of a larger community-based project volunteers helped create three mussel reefs in each of two locations within the pond in May 2001. Restoration project methodology and success were evaluated during the summer of 2001 and again in May 2002 by 1) assessing reef population dynamics (size frequency distribution, density, and movement) and 2) comparing faunal utilization (finfish species and abundance) within the reefs to that in adjacent reference areas. Created reefs showed declines in density after the first month but then increased and showed new recruitment the following year. Reef footprints were dynamic and probably influenced by mussel density as well as local hydrology. Four finfish species were observed: Atlantic silverside (Menidia menidid), mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus), four-spined stickleback (Apeltes quadracus), and three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus). The most common fish in reef and reference areas (silverside and mummichog, respectively) are highly mobile species. Reef areas had greater species diversity per sampling effort than reference areas, but no difference in overall fish abundance was found between adjacent reef and reference areas. Information collected to date indicates that mussel reefs constructed at the pond appear to be functioning as a natural system, acting to improve water quality and provide shelter for small fish and other nektonic and epibenthic invertebrates. In addition, volunteer action garnered city involvement and increased local awareness of the pond as an ecosystem rather than a sewage lagoon. Community awareness along with habitat improvements will increase the long-term prospects for rehabilitation of South Mill Pond.
43441151|The landscape has a dramatic effect on a site's ecological and social function. Landscape context and pattern are important considerations in ecological restoration for their effects on rehabilitation design and ecological function. In Ontario, Canada, there are more than 5,300 active aggregate mining sites, equivalent to a total area of over 70 square kilometers. Rehabilitation of inactive pits is required by law, but rehabilitation efforts rarely attempt to restore ecological function to a site, and even more rarely consider the ecological implications of landscape context. The size, spatial extent, and nonrandom distribution of aggregate extraction sites in Ontario offer opportunities to restore ecological functions through cooperative rehabilitation, where landowners and licensed aggregate extractors try to achieve better ecological outcomes. In order to illustrate how landscape context can make a meaningful contribution to rehabilitation design and ecological restoration of pit and quarry sites in Ontario and in other settings, we review methods of assessing critical aspects of landscape context, including patterns of habitats (mosaics), interpatch movements and dispersal (connectivity and permeability), and the heterogeneity of microclimates (niche diversity). We illustrate the potential of this approach with the example of the Karner blue butterfly. The described project may inform restoration approaches for other land uses and landscape contexts.
43443230|Since 2006, an innovative, multiinstitutional Spanish Master in Ecosystem Restoration (MER) is jointly offered by four major public universities in Madrid. In view of the high student demandabout 900 applications this academic year for only 30 places, a remarkable 75% rate of professional poststudy employment in a period of economic crisis, and the high number (> 40) of prestigious organizations involved in the program, we consider the MER program, although still young, to be very promising for the long term. We explain the process to create the MER and achieve the results obtained thus far. We describe its organization, report its vital statistics in terms of students, and identify some strengths and weaknesses observed to date. The MER program has evolved as a network of knowledge and experience that links universities, lecturers, researchers, students, private and public companies, NGOs, and administration centers. Our aim is to help other groups that may want to launch similar graduate-level ecological restoration degree programs.
43443168|Forest stand diversification in terms of plant species and spacing of plantings is critical to restoring components of native forests, reducing risks of insect and disease outbreaks, and providing a variety of habitats for native birds and other forest animals. We share the results of experimentation with reforestation practices to achieve more diverse upland forests in northeastern Minnesota. We also share the results of a study to determine the impact of site preparation (rock raking) and seedling "release" (removing competing surrounding vegetation after two years) on survival and height of 19 native trees and shrubs. After five years, seedling survival across the 19 species ranged from 31% to 94%, with mean of 72%. Survival was higher for sites receiving the preparation treatment (76%) than for those not receiving the treatment (68%). Site preparation significantly increased seedling height for eight species. In year three of the study we removed nearby competing vegetation (release treatment), which resulted in significantly greater seedling height for two species and less height growth for three species after two years. We discuss the value of increases in survival and height in the context of overall forest management objectives and other management strategies to diversify forest species and structure.
43441267|Public support plays a critical role in the completion and long-term success of ecological restoration projects. However, gaining this support has been a challenge in some cases. Local citizens have not always responded positively to restoration despite its touted benefits. In this article, I apply a theory of human behavior, motivation, and cognition called the Reasonable Person Model (RPM) in order to show how participation can be an effective part of restoration efforts. Using two case studies from Chicago, I discuss some of the issues that arise in restoration projects and how RPM may address them. This model identifies three important human needs, which when met contribute to more cooperative, reasonable behavior: cognitive map-building, meaningful action, and being effective. I demonstrate how RPM can be used to explain people's reactions to restoration efforts and why participation works better in some cases than in others. I also present strategies based on RPM to promote more effective participation in restoration efforts.
43443108|We undertook a restoration project on 1.5 ha of a vegetated sand dune leveled in order to build an airstrip for an oilfield on the Arctic Coastal Plain of northern Alaska. We seeded Nortran tufted hairgrass (Deschampsia caespitosa), a relatively non-palatable native grass, to rapidly develop a ground cover that would stabilize the sandy substrate but not attract wildlife. We transplanted 4,400 willow (Salix spp.) cuttings and 11,500 sprigs of American dunegrass (Leymus mollis) and seeded two forb species to increase species diversity and the vertical structure of the plant canopy. Total live cover increased to 73.9% after three years, limiting wind erosion to less than 5% of the treated area. The seeded and transplanted grasses and the naturally colonizing wideleaf polargrass (Arctagrostis latifolia) accounted for most (66.2%) of the plant cover. Survivorship of transplanted willows after 3 years was 26-34%, and we observed annual incremental increases in cover of willows, seeded forbs, and other naturally colonizing species. We identified 31 vascular plant species in the treated area after three years. Of these, 15 were present before the airstrip was constructed, and 19 occurred in natural sand dune ecosystems in the region. These results demonstrated the feasibility of cultivating locally collected native plant materials to control erosion of a disturbed sand dune in the Arctic and to initiate a longer-term process of ecological restoration.
43443073|Invasive exotic plants often threaten the establishment of desirable plants in vegetation restoration projects. There is little understanding of the role of intraspecific genetic variation in resident natives in allowing or resisting invasions. Spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa [= C. stoebe]) is one of the most abundant invaders in western North American grasslands. We hypothesized that there was genetic variation in local populations of bluebunch wheatgrass (Agropyron spicatum [= Pseudoroegneria spicata]), a dominant native, for resistance to spotted knapweed and that we could identify resistant wheatgrass plants by locating isolated survivors in knapweed-infested grasslands. We planted clones of 12 "survivor" wheatgrass plants, four haphazardly chosen "unexposed" plants from uninvaded grasslands, and one cultivar (Goldar) selected for vigorous growth in a knapweed-dominated field and followed survival, growth, and reproduction for three years. We also raised clones of these same families in pots with knapweed in a complete randomized block design. Size, growth, and reproductive effort of wheatgrass plants varied among families in the field study where canopy cover of knapweed was more than 30 percent. Much of the variation among wheatgrass families was attributed to the superior performance of Coldar, which had greater growth, fecundity, and knapweed suppression compared with unexposed families in the field and garden studies. Our strategy for identifying knapweed-tolerant genotypes was ineffective; survivor families did not grow better than unexposed controls in the field or garden study. Our conclusion: developing local cultivars similar to Goldar by selecting for vigor and productivity among wild, local collections may be the best way to develop restoration cultivars that tolerate and suppress invasive weeds.
43443265|Mangrove loss in Mexico led to the development of different recovery programs focused on building and maintaining greenhouses, reforestation, and the construction of drainage systems along coastal roads to reestablish surface water flows. However, these recovery strategies have not been as successful as expected because they were not based on an evaluation of environmental characteristics required for mangrove development in the context of new hydrological and sedimentary conditions. The studies performed over the last ten years by the mangrove group at Centro de Investigacin y de Estudios Avanzados (CINVESTAV), in collaboration with other institutions, resulted in a conceptual framework that we present here as a methodological approach for the ecological restoration of mangroves in the Yucatn Peninsula. The conceptual framework is based on the relationships among the geomorphology, hydrology, and structural and functional characteristics of mangroves that are associated with the environmental services offered by these ecosystems. The methodological approach is fundamentally concerned with the particular characteristics of the karstic environmental setting of the Yucatn Peninsula as well as social and economic aspects of restoration. This approach to mangrove restoration includes stages for planning, implementing, and monitoring mangrove restoration programs in karstic environments. La prdida de manglares en Mxico ha llevado al desarrollo de diferentes programas para abordar su recuperacin. En la Pennsula de Yucatn estos programas se han centrado principalmente en la construccin y mantenimiento de invernaderos, la reforestacin y la construccin de sistemas de alcantarillas en las carreteras costeras para restablecer los flujos de las aguas superficiales. Sin embargo, estas estrategias de recuperacin no tuvieron el xito que se esperaba, principalmente porque no se basaron en la caracterizacin ambiental como un criterio para identificar las condiciones hidrolgicas y de sedimentos necesarias para el desarrollo de manglares. Los estudios realizados durante los ltimos diez aos por el grupo manglares en el Centro de Investigacin y de Estudios Avanzados (CINVESTAV), en colaboracin con otras instituciones, han dado lugar a un marco conceptual que se presenta aqu como un enfoque metodolgico para la restauracin ecolgica de los manglares en la Pennsula de Yucatn. El marco conceptual se basa en las relaciones que hay entre la geomorfologia, la hidrologa y caractersticas estructurales y funcionales de los manglares, y que estn asociados con los servicios ambientales que ofrecen estos ecosistemas. El enfoque metodolgico es fundamentalmente relacionado a las caractersticas particulares del entorno krstico de la Pennsula de Yucatn, as como aspectos sociales y econmicos de la restauracin. Este enfoque de la restauracin de manglares incluye las etapas de la planificacin, implementacin y seguimiento de los programas de restauracin de manglares en ambientes krsticos.
43443055|Recovery of a "green corridor" in the lower Tarim River is underway, following extensive agricultural development and irrigation beginning in the 1950s that lowered water tables in the river basin and killed native willow poplar or Euphrates poplar (Populus euphratica) trees. In 2000, a groundwater recharge project began to restore vegetation in the green corridor. After seven water discharges (diverted from a nearby lake), groundwater rose from 6 meters to 2 meters near Taitema Lake and vegetation began to recover. The overall restoration of the green corridor and the Tarim River depends on long-term, comprehensive management of the river basin. The main hydrological challenges are to mitigate water loss through seepage and evaporation by improving structures such as dikes, water gates, and irrigation canals. Management efforts should also consider river regulation, optimal water allocation, water conservation, water price policy, and grassland improvement, rather than just water transfers.
43443013|I report on previous research and the results of several multi-year projects that point to the effectiveness of using deep 1-gallon container plantings rather than liner, 1-gallon or 15-gallon container plantings for habitat restoration of deep/tap-rooted species in xeriphytic Mediterranean climatic areas. I highlight two recent projects to demonstrate the higher survival and growth resulting from the use of deep 1-gallon plantings for three deep/taprooted specieslemonadeberry (Rhus integrifolia), laurel sumac (Malosma laurina), and California live oak (Quercus agrifolia)  when compared with liner and 15-gallon plantings. Less expensive chaparral shrub liner plantings are shown to produce low field survival rates that negate initial cost savings when compared with deep 1-gallon plantings. Oak seedlings grown in 15-gallon containers, while much taller at planting than deep 1-gallon oak plantings, are shown to not justify their substantial additional production time and planting costs since deep 1-gallon plantings can surpass 15-gallon container growth rates in less than two years. While no long-term comparisons are made between standard and deep 1-gallon plantings of deep/tap-rooted species, I make a case for the greater likelihood of conventional 1-gallon tap-rooted plants developing detrimental root-binding under standard nursery growing conditions.
43441264|With shrinking habitats, weed invasions, and climate change, repeated surveys are becoming increasingly important for rare plant conservation and ecological restoration. We often need to relocate historical sites or provide locations for newly restored sites. Georeferencing is the technique of giving geographic coordinates to the location of a site. Georeferencing has been done historically using verbal descriptions or field maps that accompany voucher collections. New digital technology gives us more exact techniques for mapping and storing location information. Error still exists, however, and even georeferenced locations can be uncertain, especially if error information is not included with the observation. We review the concept of uncertainty in georeferencing and compare several institutional database systems for cataloging error and uncertainty with georeferenced locations. These concepts are widely discussed among geographers, but ecologists and restorationists need to become more aware of issues related to uncertainty to improve our use of spatial information in field studies.
43441123|In this study, we assessed the restoration of a riparian wetland in a moderately incised glacial till valley of the Midwest where drainage pipes were either removed or disabled in 2000 and 2004. The study determined whether wetland hydrology was restored at the site and whether former drainage pipe locations still influenced wetland hydrology after restoration ended. Water table level measurements in 2004 and 2005 indicate that wetland hydrology has been restored in areas of the riparian zone with poorly drained loamy soil. These areas are characterized by an average water table depth of 10 cm below ground surface (BGS) for approximately six months of the year and a water level above 30 cm BGS for at least 14 consecutive days during the growing season. High-resolution water table measurements during and after precipitation events did not indicate that former drainage pipe locations affect the hydrology of the site either by allowing a quick water table drawdown or by acting as preferential conduits for groundwater during precipitation events. Overall, data indicate that wetland hydrology was restored and that the technique of cutting the drainage pipes into several sections or removing them by hand and compacting the disturbed soil back into place without adding any extra material was an appropriate restoration technique for this site.
43440720|Understanding the historic fire regime is essential before restoring fire to an ecosystem. Historical ecology provides a means to use both quantitative and qualitative data from different disciplines to address questions about how the traditional ecological management practices of indigenous peoples influenced prairie and savanna ecosystems in the past. In this article, we evaluated paleoecological, archaeological, ethnographic, and ethnobotanical information about the Upper Chehalis River basin prairies of southwestern Washington to better understand the extent to which influenced prairie distribution, composition, and availability of wild plant food resources. We also surveyed areas that had been burned at differing frequencies to test whether frequent fires increase camas (Camassia quamash) productivity. Preliminary results support the hypothesis that camas productivity increases with fire-return intervals of one to two years.
43443295|Over the past couple of decades, 2,200,000 ha of wetlands and grasslands have been restored in the prairie pothole region, USA. However, many restored and remnant wetlands in the region are dominated by two invasive plant species, reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea) and cattail (Typha spp.), which form dense monotypic stands. These restorations are usually evaluated as habitat for waterfowl and other birds; however, there is a need to evaluate their success for invertebrates. Odonata (dragonflies and damselflies) are ideal organisms to include in our evaluations of restored wetland habitat quality for both ecological and practical reasons. To examine the association between vegetation structure and odonate assemblages in shoreline vegetation of prairie pothole wetlands, we compared odonate richness and abundance in dense, monotypic stands to that of vegetation with diverse vertical structure. We also observed the use of these two different habitats by odonate species classified as "of conservation concern" in Iowa. Odonate species richness was substantially greater in the mixed-structure vegetation than in monotypic stands. A similar trend was found in odonate species with a "vulnerable" or "uncommon" conservation status. The number of occurrences of species of conservation concern was four times greater in mixed than in monotypic vegetation. A comparison of our data to those collected in the 1990s for one monotypic vegetation site further supported this conclusion. Many odonate species are targets for conservation and can readily benefit from wetland restoration and reconstruction if the sites are managed for proper vegetation structure.
43443258|One of the emerging motivations for community engagement in ecological restoration is the recovery of plant and animal species, subspecies, and stocks historically utilized as foods. New alliances of conservation biologists, ecological restorationists, native food activists, and chefs are joining forces for these collaborative conservation and restoration initiatives. The Renewing America's Food Traditions (RAFT) Alliance is one such collaboration, and it is engaged in identifying and recovering wild foods that have historically been depleted by a variety of pressures. It has identified at least 267 wild species, subspecies, stocks, or ecotypes of place-based foods at risk in North America. Of these, 43 may be broadly classified as wild game (including 12 birds, 20 mammals, and 10 reptiles), 82 as wild-foraged plants, 40 as shellfish, and 103 as fish. Of 267 place-based heritage foods in the RAFT database, fewer than a dozen have been extirpated as species, subspecies, or populations, but 45 (17%) are the subjects of genetic recovery and habitat restoration as noted in previous articles and abstracts featured in this journal. Taking into account all the restoration efforts for place-based foods at risk that have been reported in this journal and in recent oral communications, a minimum of 38% of North America's wild foods at risk may be on the way to recovery at one or more sites. We also discuss four cases studies of collaborative efforts toward gastroeconomic and biocultural restoration.
43441333|Grassland birds are one of the most endangered taxa in temperate North America. Because many species declines have been linked to habitat fragmentation and loss, large-scale prairie restoration projects have the potential to provide critical habitat for these declining species. We examined how the structure of restored grassland habitat changes through time and how diversity and community composition of grassland birds respond to these changes. Our study was completed at Neal Smith National Wildlife Refuge, a large-scale prairie restoration in central Iowa. Vegetation composition and structure were measured at 42 restored grassland plots throughout the refuge in 2007. Birds were surveyed at these locations from 1994 to 2007. Survey points were sorted into five categories (out of crop rotation for 1, 2, 3, 4-6, and > 6 y). In the initial phases of restoration, species such as horned larks, red-winged blackbirds, and killdeer were abundant. Other species such as common yellowthroats and dickcissels were more common in established restored points. Henslow's sparrows appeared only at survey points that were out of crop rotation for more than 6 years. Diversity peaked in survey points that were 2-3 years out of crop rotation and points that were more than 6 years out of rotation. Community composition shifted through the chronosequence of prairie plantings. Changes in diversity and shifts in community composition can be explained by changes in vegetative structure. Our results suggest that managing for a variety of restored prairie stages will best maintain the highest levels of avian diversity and abundance.
43441238|Haymaking and seed-stripping are frequently utilized methods of obtaining seeds for use in ecological restoration. We sought to measure the efficiency of these two techniques in different grassland types in terms of the seed mix obtained compared to the seed present in the vegetation. Haymaking and harvesting with a pull-type seed stripper were compared in two different types of eastern Italian Alp meadows: a tall oats (Arrhenatherum elatius) meadow (grass height 70-100 cm) and a low fescue-bentgrass (Festuca nigrescensAgrostis capillaris) meadow (grass height 35-65 cm). The percentage of seed obtained from haymaking was similar to that obtained from seed-stripping (about 50% of the seed in the standing vegetation). Nevertheless, haymaking efficiency differed less among the two grassland types (with reference to the harvested seeds number per fertile stem, 39% in the tallgrass and 60% in the shortgrass vegetation) compared to the efficiency of seed-stripping (20% and 73%, respectively). With haymaking, the seed mix obtained in both meadows was similar to that present in the standing vegetation before harvesting. With seed-stripping, the similarity was high only in the shortgrass meadow, where the stripping action of the brush affected the whole herbaceous layer, and the downward motion of the brush allowed for effective harvesting. Both techniques were more efficient in the shortgrass meadow than in the tallgrass vegetation.
43443195|As our understanding of the importance of natural lakeshores in providing wildlife habitat and water quality protection has grown, so too has interest in restoring degraded lakeshore. Advances in lakeshore restoration practice have been hindered by a lack of field-based evaluations to guide decisionmaking and by gaps in our knowledge of how to revegetate littoral and shoreline areas. To understand how the choices practitioners are making affect restoration outcomes, we surveyed 22 lakeshore restoration projects in the Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota (USA), metropolitan area that ranged in age from 1 to 6 years. We conducted comprehensive, floristic surveys of the vegetation found on each site and investigated site maintenance practices. We found that 29% of species planted in the upland zone of the lakeshore reliably established; long-term protection of the site from adjacent land uses improved the likelihood that planted vegetation would endure. The greatest revegetation failure occurred along the shoreline; 44% of species planted did not establish at this land-water transitional zone. Approximately 30% of the aquatic zone restorations did not contain any planted vegetation, although ten aquatic plant species were found to establish dependably on at least some of the remaining sites. In aquatic and transition zones, vegetative composition was most clearly related to exposure to wave activity. This survey suggests two restoration practices that should be improved to increase the likelihood of lakeshore restoration success: 1) choosing plants so they match the prevailing light and flooding conditions within sites; and 2) providing both upland and aquatic protection.
43443226|With the loss, fragmentation, and degradation of natural wetlands, habitat restoration and management are becoming increasingly important tools in the conservation of many turtle species. The rare Blanding's turtle lives primarily in wetlands but requires well-drained and sparsely vegetated soil for nesting. If traditionally used nesting habitat becomes unsuitable due to vegetation overgrowth, females may travel farther with an increased risk of collection, predation, and mortality from cars. At a habitat creation site in Dutchess County, New York, we examined the success and cost-effectiveness of three methods of nesting habitat managementtilling, mowing, and weedingon replicated 5 m  7 m plots. Using radiotelemetry, we followed female turtles throughout the 2006 and 2008 nesting seasons. Nesting turtles preferred tilled plots to weeded or mowed plots. Our work suggests that tilling plots can be a successful and cost-effective means of managing nesting habitat.
43443069|The continuing development of the science of restoration is muddled by unclear and inconsistent use of the term "success." In recent issues of two journals, Restoration Ecology and Ecological Engineering, 116 papers employed the term to predict outcomes, judge outcomes, describe criteria for judging projects, or refer to an ecosystem attribute, all in the restoration context. Only ten papers used "failure." In this article I argue that ecologists can communicate with greater clarity and objectivity by omitting or clarifying the word success when publishing in the scientific literature. Many uses can easily be dropped (for example, compliance success can become compliance, and establishment success can be establishment). A common term, "restoration success" would be clearer if replaced with more specific terms (for example, project completion, achieving dense plant cover, supporting high species richness, or colonization by target species). At minimum, authors can define the term and use it consistently. When meant as a value judgment, it would help to say, "In my opinion, the project was a success" (or failure) and then specify on what basis the judgment was made. Thus, I recommend abstinence, substitution, and clarification of the term success to aid communication and help restoration ecology mature as a science.
43443292|We evaluated the ecological success of the manual removal of Carpobrotus species, a putative hybrid complex of a South African perennial mat-forming plant, by comparing treated, noninvaded, and invaded plots across coastal Andaluca in southern Spain. As a measure of the management effectiveness, we quantified the density of Carpobrotus seedlings and resprouts in treated plots one year after treatment. Response of the plant community to removal was assessed by comparing native species richness, cover, diversity, and species composition among treatments. Removal greatly reduced to a great extent Carpobrotus density. However, successful control will require repeated hand-pulling treatments. Treated plots had a significant increase in species richness, especially annual plants, compared to invaded plots, but both had the same native plant cover and diversity. We found similar species composition between removal and noninvaded plots, indicating that revegetation is not necessary. Long-term monitoring is necessary to determine whether these observed patterns of community response are transient or stable through succession.
43443227|Models have become a key tool for effectively forecasting the benefits of restoration projects, yet they are often too complicated and inaccessible to resource managers for practical use. A desktop numeric model was developed for resources managers to estimate the benefits of nutrients and sediments introduced into coastal marshes in Louisiana and to improve the predictability of coastal restoration alternatives. In the model, nutrient benefits are based on the cumulative volume of water introduced by an average annual flow  rate, the average total nitrogen and phosphorus concentration of the source water, the nutrient requirements of the plants based upon the annual plant production rate per unit area, and the proportion of nutrients retained in the system. Sediment benefits are based upon the cumulative volume of water introduced by the average annual flow, total suspended solid concentration, bulk density of the receiving marsh area, average depth of the receiver area, and the retention of material introduced into the system. The sum of nutrient and sediment benefits represents a gross change that is then applied to adjust the annual land change rate. Model applications indicate that volume, concentration, and retention of materials tend to be the most important factors in determining the efficiency of marsh building. Sites closest to the main flow of a river, where material concentrations are highest, are capable of forming land at higher rates; however, off-river sites with more than 50% preexisting marsh vegetation can potentially rebuild at comparable rates because of higher retention efficiencies. Lowest rates of land development are in off-river sites with highly degraded marsh, and new delta formations in deep open water.
43443170|The ecological benefits of a roadside native perennial grass stand are compromised when invasive species become established. We evaluated the potential to regenerate existing native perennial grass stands populated with yellow starthistle (Centaurea solstitialis) on a roadside planting in the lowland hills of the interior Coast Range of northern California. The experiment was designed to determine the effects of mowing, burning, or herbicide spraying, alone and in combination, on the vegetative cover and density of native perennial grasses and C. solstitialis. The study site contained blue wildrye (Elymus glaucus) and purple needlegrass (Nassella pulchra) as well as solstitialis. Burn, herbicide, and mow treatments were applied in spring 2004. After one year, solstitialis cover was less than 2% in all treatments that included spraying and in two years, solstitialis was 2% or less in all treatments except burned plots (8%) and control plots (16%). By the end of two years, percent cover and activity (i.e., growth and dormancy) of native perennial grasses were significantly greater for management treatments that included at least two of the tested vegetation control techniques. This study suggests that a combination of vegetation control techniques is necessary to nearly eliminate solstitialis and increase late summer cover and activity of native perennial grasses.
43441298|Hawaiian dry forests currently occupy a small fraction of their former range, and worldwide tropical dry forests are one of the most human-altered systems. Many small-scale projects have been successful in restoring native dry forests in abandoned pastures and degraded woodlands by outplanting after invasive species removal, but this is a costly approach. In this project we tested forest restoration techniques involving broadcasting seeds pretreated to enhance germination and applying herbicide to reduce non-native grass competition. We compared three treatments: broadcast seeding, herbicide, and broadcast seeding combined with herbicide. After two years our study results suggest that broadcast seeding and the favorable microclimate created by eliminating invasive grasses through herbicide application may increase native seed germination and survival and promote higher species diversity.
43440718|This article describes the natural re-establishment of south Florida slash pine (Pinus elliottii var. densa) on former farmlands within Everglades National Park. Restoration of these farmlands involves removal of all existing vegetation and underlying disturbed soils, followed by natural recruitmentthere is no planting or seeding. Four years after restoration, 3,013 seedlings greater than 4 inches (10 cm) in height occurred on the 31-acre (12.5-ha) site. The majority of seedlings were within 82 feet (25 m) of an undisturbed rockland pine habitat and at elevations of 3.5 feet (1.1 m) or higher. Ground elevation affected both mortality rates and growth. Seedlings at lower elevations had higher mortality rates and slower growth rates during the first three years. Hydrological conditions, which are related to ground elevation, appear to affect pine seedlings in two ways. First, surface water tends to cause higher mortality of recently germinated pine seedlings at lower ground elevations and slow the initial growth of the surviving seedlings. Second, at higher elevations, the depth to the water table appears to limit germination.
43441296|The Palo Verde marsh restoration was performed in Costa Rica to reduce invasive Typha domingensis stands. The invasion of this cattail in the 1980s decreased the habitat quality, and thousands of waterbirds that used this seasonal marsh were not returning. In 2002, the Organization for Tropical Studies decided to manage the marsh using a tractor with angle-ironpaddle wheels to crush cattail. We evaluated the land cover changes in response to the prescribed management activities through GIS and vegetation-assessment analysis. Crushing activities started in July 2002. We defined three management plots: A and B) with crushing activities for different lengths of time and C) the control plot with passive management. We evaluated wetland cover changes, richness, and dominance of plant species in the three plots. We found that owing to management activities 1) cattail cover area decreased from 35% to 9% (Plot A) and from 62% to 7% (Plot B), while in Plot it remained almost constant (always greater than 60%); 2) the area of total live vegetation including cattail decreased, giving way to open water and bare ground; 3) plant species richness was higher in the crushed plots than in the control plot; 4) cattail dominance decreased and more species were sharing the marsh area in managed plots than in the control plot; and 5) cattail cover was negatively related to species richness. We recommend continuing the control of cattail by crushing in order to rehabilitate the marsh and conserve its biodiversity.
43440698|The differences between ecological restoration and other conservation and landscape management practices can be subtle or dramatic. I examine the basic tenets of ecological restoration and discuss ways that other practices could begin to achieve the goals of an ecological restoration projectthe use of native species in an ecological community setting; recontouring of land to original site conditions; an emulation of historic reference sites; the use of local, natural materials for hardscaping; and many others. I also strongly encourage the use of the Society for Ecological Restoration International's Primer on Ecobgical Restoration and their Guidelines for Constructing and Managing Ecological Restoration Projects. Finally, I point out that there are numerous situations in which ecological restoration is impossible and should not be attempted. The best thing to do in these cases is to accept that fact, do the best job you can, and describe the project for whatever it isjust don't call it ecological restoration.
43443037|Choosing plant materials for each desired species is often one of the most difficult steps in developing a restoration plan. The Restoration Gene Pool concept was developed to clarify the options available to the ecological restoration practitioner in terms of plant materials. We present a decision-making flowchart incorporating the issues delineated in the Restoration Gene Pool concept. We intend to provide practitioners with a framework to make objective and defensible plant materials choices in keeping with the objectives and philosophy of the restoration project. The flowchart consists of a series of boxes with single or multiple statements to be judged as true or false. The statements deal with issues such as genetic identity, plant metapopulation, functional guild, ecoregion, invasive weed presence, site soil and climate, endangered species presence, commercial seed availability, seed contracting potential, and availability of material bred for improved stress tolerance. Implementing the flowchart is a straightforward way to apply the Restoration Gene Pool concept to a particular project, but we encourage each practitioner to personalize the flowchart to make it as practical as possible for the situations that she or he most often encounters.
43443112|A New England salt marsh undergoing tidal restoration was manipulated to improve halophyte seed dispersal and encourage the expansion of salt marsh plant communities. I created ten openings (150 m) in an area of dead freshwater shrubs and common reed (Phragmites australis), which had been killed by saltwater inundation during tidal restoration. The dead plants presented a physical barrier to the upstream movement of waterborne seeds from halophyte species. Five of the openings were extended to the edge of the adjacent recovering salt marsh, providing a clear passageway into the plots cleared of barrier vegetation. Another five remained as isolated clearings and five uncut plots served as controls. The establishment of salt marsh plants was greatly enhanced by removing the barrier vegetation. While plots directly connected to the salt marsh yielded the highest numbers of new halophytes, isolated clearings also had a beneficial effect. These responses suggest that barrier vegetation removal can facilitate seed dispersal, colonization, and succession in a salt marsh habitat, and provides an effective alternative to standard restorative approaches such as artificial seeding and plantng.
43443232|We describe the process leading to the creation of the Cooperative of Reforestation Workers of Far Southern Bahia (COOPLANTAR), a cooperative that specializes in restoration of the Atlantic Forest in the Monte Pascoal-Pau Brasil Ecological Corridor in southern Bahia, Brazil, and provides job and income for members of local impoverished communities. We discuss the achievements of the cooperative, difficulties it has faced, and its prospects for future sustainability and expansion.
43443056|Interactions among component plant species during establishment can affect restoration outcomes. In a seven-year study, I tested the effect of seed mixes of varied species identity and richness on the rate of establishment and spread of four native prairie species: little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium), Canada wildrye (Elymus canadensis), purple prairie clover (Dalea purpurea), and purple coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia). Percentage cover of species differed among years, but there were no effects of seeding as monocultures vs. treatments of 115 additional native prairie species. By the sixth year, mean cover of little bluestem peaked at 39 percent and Canada wildrye cover peaked at 25 percent,, but purple prairie clover and purple coneflower never exceeded 4 percent cover. Canada wildrye, however, showed a treatment by year interaction in which its cover was lower within the most species-rich treatments in years five through seven. For some prairie species, the number of species added to the seed mix may make no apparent difference to establishment and persistence. For others, Canada wildrye, for example, sowing the species in species-rich mixtures may negatively effect establishment.
43443070|Long-term reductions in invasive plant species are few, and studies documenting the response of plant communities to such reductions are equally rare. We quantified plant species richness and cover during a nine-year period at a grassland site in central Colorado where the introduction of biological control insects reduced the invasive non-native forb diffuse knapweed (Centaurea diffusa). This reduction opened up 25 percent of the relative plant cover for other plant species. Based upon repeated inventories of plant species from four transects at the site we found no changes in native or nonnative plant species richness. Although we documented a modest increase from 2.4 percent to 8.6 percent in the relative cover of native forbs as knapweed declined, we observed no significant shifts in the relative cover of total native and total non-native vegetation. Two introduced grasses, field brome (Bromus arvensis [= B. japonicus]) and intermediate wheatgrass (Thinopyrum intermedium) showed significant increases. Native warm-and cool-season grasses at the site were unable to exploit the vacuum left by the decline of the knapweed. We found little evidence of native grassland restoration following the reduction of a non-indigenous, invasive plant. Our findings support the conclusion that the reduction of a regionally abundant, non-native plant species alone is not sufficient to promote restoration of the formerly dominant native plant species, and that further management activities are necessary.
43443269|Although tropical deciduous forest (TDF) is the most widespread tropical forest in Mexico, knowledge on its regeneration and restoration ecology is still scarce. Here, we compare the diversity of TDF trees and shrubs having published propagation protocols with the total diversity of tree and shrub species recorded in a survey of 20 sites in Mexico, and we review data on survival of plants transplanted to disturbed sites. A large proportion of propagated species are leguminous, with few or no published reports on 11 diverse and widespread families, which account for 264 species. Data are insufficient for plant performance on disturbed sites, and therefore it is not possible at present to discuss if the large variations in survival are related to different disturbances regimes, climatic variations, soil characteristics, or plant quality. Research on these topics must be encouraged and made available to improve the extent and achievements of ecological restoration programs. Aunque el bosque tropical caducifolio (BTC) es el bosque tropical con mayor distribucin en Mxico, el conocimiento sobre su regeneracin y ecologa de la restauracin es an escaso. En este artculo comparamos los protocolos de propagacin publicados de rboles y arbustos de BTC con la diversidad de stos registrada en un estudio de 20 sitios de BTC en Mxico; revisamos tambin datos de supervivencia de plantas trasplantadas a sitios perturbados. Una alta proporcin de las especies propagadas son leguminosas, con muy pocos o ningn reporte publicado de 11 familias muy diversas y con una amplia distribucin, que contienen 264 especies. Los datos de desempeo de plantas en sitios perturbados son insuficientes y no permiten discernir si las grandes variaciones reportadas en la supervivencia se relacionan con diferentes regmenes de disturbio, variaciones climticas, caractersticas del suelo o calidad de las plantas. La investigacin en estos tpicos debe ser fomentada y difundida para mejorar la extensin y los logros de los programas de restauracin ecolgica.
43443194|Whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) has been declining across much of its range in North America because of the combined effects of mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae) epidemics, fire exclusion policies, and widespread exotic blister rust infections. Whitebark pine seed is dispersed by a bird, the Clark's nutcracker (Nucifraga columbiana), which caches in open, pattern-rich landscapes created by fire. This study was initiated in 1993 to investigate the effects of various restoration treatments on tree populations, fuel dynamics, and vascular plant cover on five sites in the U. S. northern Rocky Mountains. The objective of this study was to restore whitebark pine ecosystems using treatments that emulate the native fire regimeprimarily combinations of prescribed fire, silvicultural cuttings, and fuel enhancement cuttings. The main effects assessed included tree mortality, fuel consumption, and vegetation response measured just prior to the treatment, one year after the treatment(s), and five years posttreatment. While all treatments that included prescribed fire created suitable nutcracker caching habitat, with many birds observed caching seed in the burned areas, there has yet to be significant regeneration in whitebark pine. All burn treatments resulted in high mortality in both whitebark pine and subalpine fir (> 40%). Fine woody fuel loadings marginally decreased after fire, but coarse woody debris more than doubled because of falling snags. Vascular species decreased in cover by 20% to 80% and remained low for five years. While the treatments were successful in creating conditions that favor whitebark pine regeneration, the high level of blister rust mortality in surrounding seed sources has reduced available seed, which then forced the nutcracker to reclaim most of the cached seed. Manual planting of whitebark pine seedlings is required to adequately restore these sites. A set of management guidelines is presented to guide restoration efforts.
43443169|In 1999, McHenry County Conservation District returned 2.5 km of Nippersink Creek to its original meandering course, after the stream had been channelized in 1951. The District graded the banks to an average slope of 7:1, and used coconut fiber matting and large rock to slow bank erosion. Natural Resource Management crews installed over 150,000 wetland plants along the stream edges and lower banks. Using cross-sectional elevation surveys, we followed four years of change in this newly meandered channel. In addition, we investigated the relationship of the modern stream to relict meander scars left in the nearby stream valley. We found that, despite erosion control measures, the stream continues to undercut its banks. Rates of lateral migration are much less than in unaltered sections of stream. Even so, bank erosion remains a problem because the modern stream is entrenched about 60 cm below the relict meanders. As the stream migrates laterally, the tall cut banks collapse into the water, reducing water quality. In response to these findings, McHenry County Conservation District installed two gravel riffles to raise the water level by approximately 60 cm over a 0.8 km reach of the stream.
43443267|We established a forest restoration project at the Lagunas de Montebello National Park (LMNP), Chiapas, southern Mexico, a biologically important area severely impacted by surrounding human settlements. In September 2003, 3,030 saplings of 16 tree species were planted in eight 2,500 m plots. Survival and growth were assessed regularly and analyzed as a function of soil conditions, vegetative cover, and successional group of planted species (early, mid-, and late successional). After 36 months of evaluation, the highest survival was recorded in early (66.4%  4.7%) and mid-successional species (65.1 %  3.2%); survival of late successional species was considerably lower (24.1 %  4.7%). Plant growth varied among successional groups and between response variables (maximum height and basal stem diameter). In all species, growth was positively related to basal stem diameter; in nine of the planted species, we observed considerable leaf/branch loss or stem death. Forest restoration with native trees at LMNP is still at an early stage, yet it appears feasible using fast-growing species, such as sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua), oaks (Quercus spp.), and candleberry (Morella cerifera). The establishment of late-successional species like wild cherry (Prunus brachybotrya, P. lundelliana), pajalt (Synardisia venosa), and estoraque (Styrax magnus) is more limited and requires preexisting plant cover that can be provided by pioneer species. Establecimos un proyecto de restauracin forestal en el Parque Nacional Lagunas de Montebello, Chiapas, Mxico (PNLM), un rea de alta importancia biolgica y marginacin humana. En septiembre de 2003 se plantaron 3,030 individuos de 16 especies de rboles en ocho parcelas de 2,500 m. Se evaluaron peridicamente su supervivencia y crecimiento en funcin de la calidad del suelo, la cobertura vegetal y la afinidad sucesional de las especies (tempranas, intermedias o tardas). Despus de 36 meses de evaluacin, la mayor supervivencia se registr en las especies tempranas (66.4%  4.7 %) y en las sucesionales intermedias (65.1 %  3.2 %), y en menor grado en las especies tardas (24.1 %  4.7%). El crecimiento de las plantas vari de acuerdo con la afinidad sucesional y entre las variables consideradas (altura o dimetro). En todas las especies el crecimiento se relacion positivamente con el dimetro basal de las plantas; en nueve de las 16 especies plantadas se observ prdida de hojas y ramas o muerte de los tallos. El restablecimiento de la diversidad de rboles nativos en el PNLM es an limitado, pero se facilita con la incorporacin de especies pioneras de rpido crecimiento como Liquidambar styraciflua, Quercus spp. y Morella cerfera. El establecimiento de las especies tardas, tpicas del bosque mesfilo como Prunus brachybotrya, P. lundelliana, Synardisia venosa y Styrax magnus es an precario ya que requieren de la cobertura proporcionada por las especies tempranas.
43443054|We observed and manipulated habitat for a remnant population of the eastern regal fritillary (Speyeria idalia idalia), at Fort Indiantown Gap, an Army National Guard installation in Pennsylvania. Three years of study indicate that the key elements of regal fritillary habitat (larval host plants, adult nectar sources, and adult resting sites) depend on severe disturbance to soils and vegetation. Army training activity (military tracked vehicles and fire) maintained populations of larval host plants (violets) more effectively than combinations of light soil scarification, mowing, and removal of mowed biomass. In addition, plantings of nectar species (milkweeds and thistles) grew best on wetter sites after applying a non-selective herbicide (glyphosate), although herbiciding may be unnecessary on uplands. Because the required larval food and adult nectar and resting sites persist only with recurring disturbance, a practical, biologically effective, and essentially permanent program of disturbance is needed to sustain the population at Fort Indiantown Gap.
43443011|Isolated wilderness ecosystems with a history of frequent, low-severity fires have been altered due to many decades of fire exclusion and, as a result, are difficult to restore for philosophical and logistical reasons. In this paper, we describe the successional conditions of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) communities along the South Fork of the Flathead River in the Bob Marshall Wilderness following decades of fire suppression, and then summarize the first-year effects of the 2003 fires on these communities. We found that at least 34 percent of the large ponderosa pine trees were dead or dying as a result of the fires, with much of this mortality due to cambial girdling following the burning of duff and litter buildup around the base of the trees. We explore possible strategies for, and barriers to, the restoration of deteriorating ecosystems in wilderness and other similarly managed natural areas that historically depended on frequent, low-intensity fires. We also discuss the complexity of managing fire-dependent ecosystems in wilderness.
43441152|We evaluated direct transplantation of the sensitive California adolphia (Adolphia californica) in southern California and relocation of this species by means of container plants propagated from similar genetic sources. Three years after planting, container plants had significantly higher rates of survival and only slightly lower rates of growth. The higher survival rate combined with the significantly lower cost of container plantings (transplantation is ten times more expensive owing to the labor and heavy equipment required to transplant mature plants) suggests that container propagation is a cost-effective technique for relocating deep-rooted Mediterranean climate shrub species. The author also shares general guidelines for relocating Mediterranean shrub and tree species.
43443036|Revegetation of degraded shrub-steppe often fails due to intense competition from weeds, highly variable environmental conditions, and limited soil moisture. The objective of this study was to test whether a commercially available seed coating and a water-retaining acrylamide copolymer hydrogel would increase seedling emergence and establishment of crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum) under three watering frequencies and two soil textures. Pots were filled with one of four soil treatments: field soil, two parts field soil mixed with one part sand, field soil plus hydrogel, or field soil plus sand plus hydrogel. We seeded the pots with coated or uncoated seed and placed them in a greenhouse for 66 days. The pots were assigned one of three watering treatments: 4.5 oz (150 ml) applied one time per week, 1.5 oz (50 ml) applied three times per week, or 0.9 oz (30 ml) applied five times per week. We recorded seedling emergence at three and six weeks. At the end of 66 days, the numbers of seedlings that survived were counted and aboveground biomass was collected, dried, and weighed. We found that uncoated seed had 1.6 times greater seedling density than coated seed. Incorporation of the acrylamide copolymer hydrogel into the potting medium conferred some benefit to emergence, biomass, and survivorship of crested wheatgrass seedlings. However, it was watering frequency that produced the most consistent influence on seedling emergence, survival, and biomass. Watering three or five times per week increased emergence more than watering one time per week, but watering one time per week generally led to greater survivorship and biomass. This suggests that the use of water-retaining hydrogels may help to overcome soil moisture limitations and improve seedling establishment during revegetation of degraded shrub-steppe.
43441301|Over the next century, climate change will dramatically alter natural resource management. Specifically, historical reference conditions may no longer serve as benchmarks for restoration, which may foster a "why bother?" attitude toward ecological restoration. We review the potential role for riparian restoration to prepare ecological systems for the threats posed by climate change. Riparian ecosystems are naturally resilient, provide linear habitat connectivity, link aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, and create thermal refugia for wildlife: all characteristics that can contribute to ecological adaptation to climate change. Because riparian systems and the projected impacts of climate change are highly variable geographically, there is a pressing need to develop a place-based understanding of climate change threats to riparian ecosystems. Restoration practitioners should consider how they can modify practices to enhance the resilience of riparian ecosystems to climate change. Such modifications may include accelerating the restoration of private lands, participating in water management decisions, and putting the emerging field of restoration genetics into practice.
43443268|We reviewed ecological and ethnobotanical information on forests and agroforestry systems of the Tehuacn Valley, central Mexico, to analyze the usefulness of traditional management techniques for ecological restoration of semiarid zones of Mexico. Agroforestry systems of the region involve the use of multiple plant resources by local people, promoting conservation of biological diversity in agricultural systems. We found that these systems retain 57% of the species of columnar cacti communities and nearly 94% of the dominant columnar cacti's genetic variation. Other species include shrubs and trees with cultural and economic value that are also recognized by ecologists as nurse plants crucial for seedling recruitment of numerous native plant species. Retention of native elements of vegetation in general, and nurse plants in particular, favors conservation of biodiversity and biotic interactions important for restoring vegetation and soil fertility in both natural and transformed ecosystems at the landscape level. Se revis informacin ecolgica y etnobotnica sobre bosques y sistemas agroforestales del Valle de Tehuacn, en el centro de Mxico, con el fin de analizar la utilidad de las tcnicas de manejo tradicional para la restauracin de zonas semiridas de Mxico. Los sistemas agroforestales de la regin involucran el uso de mltiples recursos vegetales por la gente del rea, promoviendo la conservacin de la diversidad biolgica en los sistemas agrcolas. Estimamos que estos sistemas mantienen en promedio 57% de las especies presentes en las comunidades de cactceas columnares, y cerca del 94% de la diversidad gentica de las especies de cactceas columnares dominantes. Entre las especies mantenidas en estos sistemas se incluyen algunas especies de rboles y arbustos de valor cultural y econmico, los cuales son adems reconocidos por eclogos como plantas nodrizas cruciales para el reclutamiento de plntulas de numerosas especies de plantas nativas. El mantenimiento de elementos nativos de la vegetacin en general y de plantas nodrizas en particular favorece la conservacin de la biodiversidad y de interacciones biticas importantes para la restauracin de la vegetacin y de la fertilidad del suelo tanto en ecosistemas naturales como transformados a nivel de paisaje.
43441331|Prescribed burning is a common management tool used in grassland restorations to improve conditions for plant growth. At a grassland restoration in Maryland, we studied the impacts of sequential prescribed burning on near-surface soil chemistry of a highly weathered soil. We hypothesized that soil pH and base cations in the surface soil would increase in the nutrient-poor soils after the burning from char hydrolysis and that cations would be retained in the surface soil between the burns. We collected soil cores 12 days and one year after a fall burn and 12 days after a subsequent spring burn. After the fall burn, we observed that soil pH, extractable cations, and organic matter (OM) were elevated in the soil profile in comparison to soil conditions before initiation of any burning, suggesting an impact of the dissolution of char (the mineral-containing carbonaceous residue of burning), increased root productivity since restoration, and leaching of soluble constituents from aboveground litter in the case of soil K. One year after the second burn, only cations remained elevated. After the third burn, soil pH, OM, Ca, and Mg were greater in the depths below 10 cm in comparison to conditions prior to initiation of burning. We conclude that the net change over time in soil pH, extractable cations, and OM of grassland restorations in the first few years of prescribed burning will depend primarily on the input of new char, the presence of residual char, and the timing and magnitude of leaching events. As the grassland restoration ages, belowground productivity will likely contribute more significantly to changes in soil chemistry.
43441297|Mechanical tree thinning and prescribed fire have been widely proposed for restoring ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests in the southwestern United States. However, these restoration activities often result in intensely disturbed sites, such as landings for equipment and temporary roads, which managers may need to revegetate. Managers may also wish to augment the forest understory through revegetation after thinning and burning treatments. We present five planting trials conducted as part of restoration projects in northern Arizona ponderosa pine forests in order to assess survival of 11 species and the influence of various microsites created by restoration activities. In one trial, five-year survival of four transplanted graminoid species ranged from 1% to 23% among species and from 0% (unthinned forest) to 22% (unburned slash) among microsites. Also illustrating microsite effects, over three times more Fendler's meadow-rue (Thalictrum fendleri) survived when outplanted below Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii) than in openings created by restoration pine thinning. Only 4% of purple locoweed (Oxytropis lambertii) survived in an unsuccessful attempt at revegetating a decommissioned road on dry cinder soils. Conversely, two years after outplanting on a different road on moister soil, mountain muhly (Muhlenbergia montana) survival was 72% (89% of which were fruiting), and 40% of plants of the biennial ragleaf bahia (Bahia dissecta) were surrounded by new seedlings. Results illustrate that successes occurred without supplemental watering even in dry years; outcomes hinged on species or planting microsite; and heavy mortality occurred in some contexts. Owing to financial costs and logistical constraints, revegetation may be most suited for localized disturbances caused by restoration activities or for creating revegetated islands for understory augmentation.
43441299|To conserve or restore culturally significant plants, one must consider the important role that indigenous land management techniques have played in maintaining habitats of those species. Beargrass (Xerophyllum tenax) is a basketry plant used by Native Americans and is reportedly declining in traditional gathering sites. Many low-elevation beargrass sites on the Olympic Peninsula in Washington were maintained as savannas and wetland prairies through anthropogenic burning prior to European settlement. This study measures short-term (1 and 2 y) effects of reintroducing prescribed burning (both low and high severity) and manual clearing on beargrass growth and reproductive successflowering, vegetative reproduction, and seedling establishment. High-severity fire led to a significant increase in beargrass seedling establishment and vegetative reproduction over two years but a decline in beargrass cover. Low-severity fire also decreased beargrass cover, but did not significantly affect shoot production or seedling establishment. In areas where vegetation and coarse woody debris were manually cleared, beargrass cover decreased, while shoot production and flowering increased. Neither low-severity fires nor clearing plots affected beargrass seedling establishment. Results indicate that fire is a useful tool for enhancing low-elevation beargrass populations in this region.
43441154|We describe a proposed large-scale restoration and land use management project planned for a portion of the Drakensberg Mountains in South Africa. Some 250,000 ha of high-lying land in the Drakensberg range are a protected conservation area and also a World Heritage Site. Bordering this conservation enclave is another 250,000 ha of increasingly degraded land subject to a variety of competing land uses. Conflicting land use objectives could, in theory, be mitigated and reconciled by identifying and developing a market for the delivery of ecosystem services such as water use and quality, carbon sequestration, erosion and siltation reduction, combating desertification, and the promotion of biodiversity conservation. The project we describe here can serve as an example of how long-term investment in the restoration of natural capital (RNC) will benefit both developed and developing countries, with payment for ecosystem services as a key way to finance the restoration work. International investments in the Drakensberg project are being sought in emerging markets for carbon, water, and biodiversity creditsthe so-called "umbrella ecosystem services." Food, water, energy, and income security for local people, however, remain top priorities. We argue that this kind of RNC project is a way to simultaneously pursue the objectives of the global conventions on Biodiversity, Climate Change, and Desertification arising from the United Nations' Rio Summit of 1992, and to help meet the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals for alleviating poverty.
43441334|Precision Prairie Reconstruction (PPR) is a site-specific application for enhancing native species richness (specifically, native forbs) in old fields dominated by a few non-native grass species. The method consists of establishing microcommunities of native grasses and forbs in an existing grass matrix. The microcommunities are created by broadcast seeding simulated small-scale disturbances (8.06 m) installed over a percentage of the site. The PPR results were compared with two standard restoration techniques: herbicide/drill-seeding and rototill/broadcast seeding. A PPR design that disturbed only 25% of the area resulted in total species richness, native grass frequency, and native forb richness, stability, and density over the entire plot that were similar to what was found in the conventional rototill/broadcast method and produced better results than the herbicide/drill-seeding method. The PPR technique involved less cost and less overall disturbance than traditional herbicide application/drill-seeding or rototill/broadcast seeding methods. PPR offers an alternative approach for increasing native grass and forb diversity in old fields dominated by a few non-native grass species.
43443233|University of Wisconsin-Madison Arboretum's Earth Partnership for Schools program works with students, teachers, and citizen volunteers to restore schoolyards and natural areas and to address diversity, pollution prevention, and ecological literacy across age, ecosystem, discipline, and culture. A ten-step restoration education process with more than 100 activities that address multiple learning styles is integrated with school curricula. The RESTORE ("Restoration Education, Science Training and Outreach for Regional Educators") program has trained teams to bring Earth Partnership for Schools to a variety of ecosystems in 17 states and Puerto Rico, and has included more than 400 schools, 1,600 teachers, and 160,000 students. Key supporters and collaborators include the U.S. National Science Foundation, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Forest Service, and other public and private agencies, universities, arboreta, botanic gardens, and environmental organizations. Earth Partnership is inspired by Aldo Leopold's "land ethic" that sees land as a community to which we belong, and was articulated so clearly in his beloved Sand County Almanac in 1949.
43441332|The vast dune system that once dominated the entire western half of the San Francisco peninsula in California has been reduced to a few fragments that conserve locally threatened plant and animal species. We measured the effects of ongoing restoration efforts on wildlife abundance and diversity on one of the largest of these fragments, Fort Funston in the Golden Gate National Recreation Area. Efforts included removal of non-native species, active restoration of native dune vegetation, and restricted visitor use. We collected data regarding the composition and abundance of vegetation, birds, and ground-dwelling vertebrates on four treatments including an actively restored area with restricted visitor use, an unrestored area where visitor use had been restricted for ten years, an unrestored area where visitor use had been restricted for two years, and an unrestored area with unrestricted visitor use. Results indicated that the diversity and abundance of wildlife species, as well as the richness and cover of native plant species, were greater in the restored area than in all other sampled areas. Restricted visitor use alone had only modest positive effects on the abundance and diversity of wildlife and the richness and cover of native plant species.
43443191|A recent survey of state environmental regulators revealed that natural resource injuries caused by oil pollution are a major concern, yet few respondents reported pursuing compensation for damages on a regular basis. It appears that their reluctance is due to the fact that many view natural resource damage assessments (NRDA) as a costly, time-consuming and legally risky undertaking. This article presents a case study of Florida's approach to this type of regulation, which relies on the combination of a standardized arithmetic formula and an interactive GIS. Once compensation is obtained, dollars enter a trust fund from which withdrawals can be made when the balance is sufficient to conduct needed restorations. This approach is suggested as a model for jurisdictions interested in pursuing damages for natural resource injuries because it has proven to be a quick, inexpensive, and defensible mechanism for generating damage estimates, even for small spills. Like any real-world application, Florida's methodology is not perfect but shortcomings are discussed here in depth and potential solutions presented.
43442990|We conducted a programmatic assessment of ecological restoration within the United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National Estuarine Research Reserve System (NERRS). The NERRS encompasses a network of 26 protected areas in 20 coastal states and Puerto Rico, representing a broad diversity of aquatic and terrestrial habitat types among pristine and disturbed settings. Nearly all of the reserves provide opportunities for habitat restoration and enhancement, and for research in restoration ecology. While the political, scientific, and management issues affecting restoration among the reserves vary, general restoration priorities are similar. The reserves provide a fertile arena for the development and standardization of restoration monitoring protocols and for the development of innovative restoration technologies and applications.
43442994|The largest roseate tern (Sterna dougalii) colony in the Northern Hemisphere, which is located on Great Gull Island, is no pristine haven. Indeed, Great Gull Island is an ecology ical anomalya weed-ridden 17 acres (6.8 ha) of scrubby grass, tall blinds for bird watching, and crumbling military infrastructure. Invasive and other weedy plants have threatened tern-nesting habitat throughout the past decades, despite admirable attempts at rehabilitating the island's ecosystem. A new restoration project that integrates historical lessons with expanded resources, promises the best chance yet for successful restoration of the island and its unique roseate and common tern (S. hirunda) populations.
43440695|People who undertake river remediation projects have a variety of goals, both ecological and social, that they seek to fulfill. Practical examples of river remediation projects implemented in Israel in recent years illustrate how conflicting goals can be balanced in the actual implementation of such projects. While restoration, in terms of rehabilitating riparian landscapes and ecosystems, was one of the key aims of Israel's river remediation program, it has not been the dominant outcome in individual river basins. Instead the program has produced a variety of environmental conditions depending on the situation at hand. While these environmental conditions may or may not have the same ecological value as the original river environments prior to significant human impacts, the anthropocentric value of these remediated environments is now undoubtedly many times greater than it was prior to the remediation program. The pragmatic approach taken by the Israelis in effect acknowledged that the full restoration of past riparian environments was impossible and that a balance between ecological and human goals needed to be struck to achieve a sustainable outcome.
43441234|As on many other islands, most of the seabird species breeding in Portugal's Azores archipelago are now restricted to tiny remnants of their former nesting range, owing in large part to the introduction of mammals by humans. Praia Islet, 0.12 km in size, is home to five seabird species, four of which fall under the European listing of "conservation concern." Introduced rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) on Praia had accelerated soil erosion through overgrazing, destroyed seabird nests, and competed for burrows with petrels. Restoration of seabird habitat on the islet began in 1995 and involved rabbit eradication, control of soil erosion, native plant reintroduction, and installation of artificial nests for common terns (Sterna hirundo), roseate terns (Sterna dougallii), and Madeiran storm-petrels (Oceanodroma castro). Rabbits were eradicated in 1997 using broadcast pellets containing poison. Since then, soil erosion has decreased, many of the reintroduced native plants have started to spread, and tern and Madeiran storm-petrel breeding numbers on the islet have increased by 1,548% and 43%, respectively. However, Praia Islet seabirds remain vulnerable owing to human recreational activities. This case study highlights the need to consider local conditions carefully when assessing restoration options to effect rapid mammal eradication. It also confirms the value of combining measures aimed at restoring native vegetation and improving seabird habitat quality with alien herbivore eradication.
43441153|Glossy buckthorn (Frangula alnus) is an exotic invasive shrub within many Midwestern wetlands and adjacent ecotones, including those found in several National Wildlife Refuges. Where glossy buckthorn becomes established, it can form a dense homogenous monoculture, outcompete native shrubs, and alter other ecosystem processes. Active management of glossy buckthorn is critical to minimize the spread of this species, and to restore or rehabilitate those areas presently impacted. We tested the efficacy of herbiciding and scorching on glossy buckthorn survival. Treatments were implemented in concert with management efforts currently practiced at Seney National Wildlife Refuge in Upper Michigan. One year after applying 20% glyphosate to cut buckthorn stumps, we found no difference in resprout density between this concentration of herbicide applied by sponge to stumps, scorching stumps with a propane torch, or untreated controls (p > 0.05). Additional low-volume spraying of 5% glyphosate to resprouts the following year significantly (p < 0.001 ) reduced resprout density as compared to scorching and controls, with no difference between scorch treatments and the controls. Low-volume herbicide spraying reduced seedlings by 96% and 91% one and two years following treatment, with no difference in seedling density between scorching treatments and controls. The most effective management option for reducing glossy buckthorn appears to be repetitive herbicide application, possibly for more than two years.
43441270|Cliffs and cliff-edges are often attractive places to humans, and therefore may become damaged through recreational activities. Restoring cliffs and cliff-edges, which can be important sites of biodiversity, is challenging in part because of insufficient knowledge about native plant restoration techniques for these ecologically distinct areas. The cliff-edge at Shovel Point in Tettegouche State Park, Minnesota, has been damaged by heavy visitor use. We propagated 450 threetoothed cinquefoil (Potentina tridentata) and 450 poverty grass (Danthonia spicata) plants from locally obtained seed to test revegetation techniques. We seeded plots with cinquefoil and poverty grass seeds for comparison with transplanted plots, we monitored survivorship and seedling recruitment for three seasons, and we counted the number of new shoots produced at 3 and 24 months after transplantation. Visitor access to planted areas was restricted during the study. Overall survival rates at 3, 13, and 24 months were 87.3%, 76.9%, and 68.9% for three-toothed cinquefoil and 98.7%, 96.7%, and 63.8% for poverty grass. The grand mean number of new shoots produced per plant was 0.37 and 2.11 (SE = 0.227, 0.365) at 3 and 24 months respectively for three-toothed cinquefoil and -0.2 and -3.15 (SE = 0.584, 0.295) at 3 and 24 months respectively for poverty grass. Only one seeded plot had a single poverty grass plant by the end of the study. One-way ANOVA tests revealed no statistically significant differences among treatments within species for survival or number of new shoots produced. We conclude that when transplanted, three-toothed cinquefoil and poverty grass are useful species for revegetation of damaged outcrops such as Shovel Point.
43443137|In recent years, national forest managers have increasingly practiced ecological restoration in collaboration with local communities. However, in communicating with the public about proposed projects, U.S. Forest Service employees tend to use the technical language of silviculture. Such language is difficult for lay audiences to understand; moreover, because it originated in a timber culture, it can cause confusion about a restoration project's true purpose. For collaboration to work and restoration to succeed in public lands, a new kind of language is needed; one that more clearly communicates the intended purpose of ecological restoration. In this article, we explore the kind of language typically used in national forest management and the need for something new.
43441239|Streams on western rangelands are sometimes degraded to the point that reestablishing lost ecological values requires rebuilding their physical structure, shape, and form. We evaluated the biological response to reconstruction of a small rangeland stream channel through comparisons of aquatic invertebrate communities before and after engineering activities and in relation to local and regional reference stream conditions. We measured geomorphic and riparian habitat features along with benthic macroinvertebrates for two years prior to restoration actions and for two years afterward. Stream restoration activities included the construction of a new channel to replace an incised meadow stream reach (including addition of coarse rock substrate, erosion control fabric, and willow planting) and the rehabilitation of gullies and roads in the meadow and its watershed. In postproject monitoring, we found statistically significant changes in the macroinvertebrate community and trophic structure at the restored site. These were exhibited as increases in EPT taxa (mayflies, stoneflies, caddisflies) and the proportion and diversity of sensitive taxa, decreased tolerant taxa, and an increase in consumers of riparian organic matter (shredders) and decrease in fine organic particle filter-feeders. A site monitored downstream of the restoration activities exhibited increased deposition of fines and sand one year after project construction, but was similar to preproject conditions in the second year, and the macroinvertebrate community was unchanged. Improved biological integrity at the restored site showed that rapid recovery can occur in rebuilt streams within rehabilitated watersheds, but neither degraded nor enhanced conditions were transferred to downstream habitat, at least over the initial postproject period.
43443291|To prepare for the ecological impacts of climate change, a landscape approach is needed in which existing protected areas are enlarged and secured and ecological corridors between areas are protected and restored, thus establishing a real ecological network that is resilient to future change. This article reviews the EU Birds and Habitats Directives and shows that restoration is a central objective of the Natura 2000 network of protected areas created by the directives, at least where intense human activity and development is taking place within or nearby Natura 2000 sites. However, the current legal provisions fall short of meeting the requirements necessary to help biodiversity adapt to climate change. The good news is that these shortcomings do not hinder government authorities that want to take action. The bad news is that this will always be on a voluntary basis. The article recommends a few small amendments to the Natura 2000 scheme that would require member states to develop robust restoration plans that will help nature adapt to a changing climate.
43443039|We conducted a floristic ordination and gradient analysis of plant communities extending from prairie through graminoid-dominated wetlands in the Chicago region of northeastern Illinois. Data represented about 450 species from 103 stands sampled across a gradient of six soil moisture classes ranging from dry to hydric, and included sand, gravel, dolomite, and loam prairies as well as fen, sedge meadow, floating mat, marsh, and bog. As found in other Midwestern grassland studies, vegetation aligned most strongly along a soil moisture gradient with individualistic species distributions forming a hierarchical continuum, and lower species richness at the dry and wet extremes of the moisture gradient. Most species were infrequent, with about 70 percent occurring at less than 20-percent frequency and present in less than five communities. Species that were more frequent within communities were also more widespread among communities, fitting the niche-based model of species distribution. Moreover, less than 20 percent of all species sampled were significant indicators of soil moisture gradient classes, with most representing mesic and hydric habitats. Dominant prairie grasses extended from dry to wet habitats, merging with wetland species in graminoid fen, calcareous seep and sedge meadow habitats. Hydric habitat, represented by calcareous floating mat, marsh and bog, had fewer dominant prairie species and was dominated by a wetland flora. These results provide compositional and structural models for managing and restoring vegetation across the prairie-wetland vegetation gradient of the Chicago region.
43443262|Cogongrass (imperata cylindrica) is a globally recognized invasive weed; it has caused land management problems and threatened critical habitat in the southeastern United States as well as on most continents. We tested four rates of imazapyr (1.17, 2.34, 3.51 and 4.68 L/ha), the most effective active ingredient available for cogongrass control, as two formulations (Chopper and the new generation Chopper known as Chopper GEN2) on cogongrass cover over a 27-month period in central Florida. One month after the June treatment, Chopper GEN2 provided significantly greater cover reduction than the original Chopper formulation. Twelve months after treatment, cogongrass top regrowth cover was similar among all herbicide treatments, ranging from 1% to 3%. However, 15 months after treatment, cogongrass cover was significantly higher at the lowest rates of Chopper treatments than for the Chopper GEN2 treatments, and this trend continued throughout the experiment. Overall, Chopper GEN2 provided immediate control (one month after treatment) that continued to 27 months after treatment.
43443228|In the context of a new international master's degree program, "Biodiversity in Tropical Areas and its Conservation," we led a two-week module on ecological restoration in Ecuador for 34 future conservation professionals from nine nations, including seven from Latin America. One week was spent in the cloud-forest life zone, a second in the lowland tropical forest. The ranges of biomes and socioeconomic and historical settings that commonly occur in tropical regions were discussed. We saw these students as future communicators engaged not only in management of protected areas, but also as deeply involved in outreach, negotiation, and consensus-building among stakeholders. Students were introduced to concepts and techniques for evaluating a degraded landscape in order to determine past and present land uses and conflicts of interest among stakeholders. They were instructed on how to select a reference model using sequential reference sites and to incorporate nine attributes of satisfactorily restored ecosystems into restoration plans. In nine small groups, the 34 participating students prepared proposals to obtain funding for a restoration project in their home countries or in one of the two regions of Ecuador that were visited in the module. For this purpose, each group developed a schematic model showing how the target ecosystems were degraded and landscapes fragmented. In a second schema, they proposed a program to restore or rehabilitate different landscape units and to reintegrate fragmented landscapes. Highlights and lessons learned from this modular exercise are presented and discussed.
43443190|This paper examines the historical origins of ecological restoration in the arid and semiarid deserts of the southwestern USA. Scientific knowledge and aesthetic valuations both emerged during a period of acute environmental degradation between 1893 and 1905, strongly influencing subsequent debates and practices. In science and aesthetics alike, the historical nature of southwestern landscapes was occluded: Clementsian ecology and range science posited a climax condition and an "original capacity" for livestock, while aesthetic treatments such as those of John Van Dyke saw transcendent and timeless beauty in the dramatic dynamics of actively degrading landscapes. In recent decades, southwestern ecologists have renounced Clementsian ecology and its implied telos of "pristine" presettlement conditions. But aesthetic ideals continue to influence broader debates and practices of ecological restoration in the region, specifically with regard to grasslands, riparian areas, livestock grazing, and fire.
43443193|In addressing land degradation, a number of watershed rehabilitation programs have been carried out in Ethiopia. This study aims to financially quantify watershed rehabilitation in a way that incorporates major costs and returns. We also construct scenarios to portray cost-benefit information about the future. The data were obtained from a physical survey and supplemented with secondary sources. Total cost and return values for the watersheds were compared monetarily through cost-benefit analysis and these values were extrapolated to the future. The results indicate that the benefit was Ethiopian Birr 918,049 and 4,651,167 (US$73,821 and US$374,008) for the smallest and largest of the rehabilitated watersheds, respectively, while the expenditure was Birr 154,178 and 205,712 (US$17,701 and US$23,620). Under optimal management in the future, these benefits can reach up to Birr 19,334,643 and 76,699,254 (US$2,219,821 and US$8,805,884), while the costs remain the same. The results clearly indicate that investment in watershed rehabilitation may be an economically viable short-term and long-term proposition. Hence there is a strong case for sustainable management of rehabilitated watersheds in view of the very high economic benefits from the rehabilitation.
43441125|In recent years residents of the intermontane West have experienced a series of expensive and high-profile fire seasons. One result is that the concept of ecological restoration has moved squarely into public view. As scientists and practitioners continue to refine the definition of ecological restoration as a practical matter, citizens are forming their own perceptions of how restoration should be applied to local forests. We used a recent public opinion survey in north-central Arizona to assess public views of restoration. Our findings indicate broad support for restoration although portions of the population, particularly those in rural areas, see restoration primarily as a means to protect human lives and property from fire. Most importantly, our findings suggest that a majority of the public in this region have a view of restoration beyond fire risk reduction, but vary in their willingness to accept dramatic changes to forest conditions.
43443165|The Huachuca water umbel (HWU, Lilaeopsis schaffneriana ssp. recurva) is a federally endangered aquatic perennial plant endemic to southeastern Arizona and northern Sonora, Mexico. The species was listed because of threats posed by the degradation and loss of wetlands throughout its limited range. Although the species is easily grown in a greenhouse, information regarding specific requirements that allow long-term persistence of HWU in natural habitats is lacking, and few efforts to reintroduce this species have been attempted. Using greenhouse-propagated material, we introduced 128 individual HWU plugs into four spring-fed wetland sites near Elgin, Arizona. The sites represent a range of habitat conditions. After two years, overall survival of transplanted plugs was 60% and the area occupied had increased by 845%. This study documented the response of transplanted HWU to periodic drying, disturbance due to scouring and trampling, and sediment deposition. We also examined the number of viable seeds incorporated into a seed bank at the study location in the first season after transplanting. This case study offers a model for watershedwide reintroduction efforts of endangered plants. It also illustrates the importance of low-level disturbance and the necessity of long-term monitoring and maintenance of competing plant species in establishing viable species reintroductions.
43440696|The historical implementation of large river engineering projects in China highlights an inconsistency between humans resource needs and the integrity of rivers on which humans depend. Currently, China's massive water projects have the attention of international media and the global scientific community, while a series of smaller, local projects designed to enhance the quality and function of rivers across China remains largely undocumented. The implementation of such smallscale restoration efforts signals an important paradigm shift related to environmental values and awareness in China, as national funding is diverted in a progressive campaign to support local restoration practices. Because of China's substantial role in directing the health of the planet (Shapiro 2001), and with many developing countries struggling to manage limited supplies of clean water, it is important to highlight the successes and failures of China's efforts to enhance the condition of its degraded riverine systems. The challenges and successes of these projects have important implications for global efforts, particularly in developing countries, to improve the quality, vitality, and utility of river systems.
43441269|Invasive perennial species are frequently a barrier to native plant establishment in fertile sedge meadow wetland restorations. Amending soils with high carbon-to-nitrogen (C:N) materials may deplete nitrogen (N) and limit the establishment of invasive species, although the effectiveness of such amendments at depleting soil N in restored wetlands is largely unknown. Therefore we incorporated four high C:N materials (cedar, white pine, and red oak sawdust, as well as sucrose) into the soils of nonvegetated plots in a restored sedge meadow wetland and measured soil ammonium-N and nitrate-N in relation to nonamended control plots over a 25-week period. All amendments depleted nitrate-N concentrations equivalently (67%-100%), although both the timing and the duration of this depletion varied among amendments. White pine sawdust was most effective, depleting nitrate-N for the entire 25 weeks. Sawdust from red oak and cedar depleted nitrate-N after 5 and 13 weeks, respectively. Lowered nitrate-N concentrations then persisted for the remaining 20 weeks in the red oak treatments, while the effects of cedar were short-lived (8 weeks). Sucrose depleted nitrate-N for 13 weeks. No amendment depleted ammonium-N concentrations, although cedar sawdust caused initial ammonium-N concentrations to increase by 300%-700%. Based on our findings, white pine sawdust will be more likely to deplete N effectively during the establishment of sedge meadow wetlands. It is unknown, however, if this depletion will suppress invasive perennials long enough to allow desired native species to establish a closed canopy and take up nitrogen, thereby limiting the chances of future invasions.
43443138|In the montane grasslands of Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, non-native plant species are affecting the distribution and cover of native plant species. Two exotic nitrogen-fixing Eurasian sweetclover species (Melilotus officinalis and M. alba) occur in patches that have less available nitrogen (N) and a species composition different from surrounding grassland patches. I tested whether burning sweetclover-invaded patches would increase native grass and perennial diversity and available soil nitrogen at this elevation. I burned 24 sweetclover-invaded and noninvaded field plots with a propane torch in May 1999. Burning increased species richness and ground cover. Specifically, one year later native, grass, and perennial species increased in previously invaded patches and sweetclover or other exotic species associated with sweetclover did not increase. Soil ammonium (NH) levels increased immediately after the burn in May, and nitrate (NO) levels increased later in July and August. New species appeared only in burned plots. While other methods to reduce sweetclover might remove resources, fire increases light, space, and nutrient availability for native species that, in turn, suppress the exotic species.
43441295|Purple milkweed (Asdepias purpurascens) is a relatively rare member of the flora of oak savannas and open oak woodlands. It is endangered in several states and has been the subject of special conservation efforts. A number of native populations of this species arose spontaneously at Pleasant Valley Conservancy State Natural Area in south-central Wisconsin after oak savanna restoration was initiated in 1997. Ecological observations of permanently marked stands made over a ten-year period have shown that growth is highly variable from year to year, and flowering and seed set are sporadic and unpredictable. Germination studies have determined that seed viability is very high. Greenhouse-raised plants have been successfully transplanted to the field and followed for three years. Transplants have also been used in a forbs garden, where plants could be monitored more effectively. Pod formation and seed set are highly variable, both in the field and in the forbs garden, and may partly explain the rarity of this species.
43443109|Oregon white oak (or Garry oak, Quercus garryana) woodlands and savannas of the coastal Pacific Northwest are legacies of an anthropogenic fire regime that ended with European settlement in the mid-1800s. Historically, these oak stands had a sparse overstory and an understory dominated by fire-tolerant grasses and forbs. Post-settlement fire suppression resulted in widespread invasion and subsequent overstory dominance by conifers, causing mortality of shade-intolerant oak trees and shifting understory plant communities to shade-tolerant species. In a study on four southwestern Washington sites, our objective was to determine the effects of overstory conifer removal, primarily Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), on microclimate, native and non-native understory cover, and sapling growth. Overstory conifer removal created a warmer, drier understory microclimate during summer months. Conifer removal had little effect on native understory cover during five years post-treatment; however, cover of non-native plants, primarily grasses and woody understory species, increased significantly during the same period. Height growth of Oregon white oak and Douglas-fir saplings exhibited a delayed, but positive, response to overstory conifer removal, although the treatment response of Douglas-fir was 133% greater than that of oak. Increases in non-native understory cover and the rapid growth of young Douglas-fir indicate the importance of pre- and post-treatment understory management to control undesirable plants and promote native species such as Oregon white oak.
43440695|People who undertake river remediation projects have a variety of goals, both ecological and social, that they seek to fulfill. Practical examples of river remediation projects implemented in Israel in recent years illustrate how conflicting goals can be balanced in the actual implementation of such projects. While restoration, in terms of rehabilitating riparian landscapes and ecosystems, was one of the key aims of Israel's river remediation program, it has not been the dominant outcome in individual river basins. Instead the program has produced a variety of environmental conditions depending on the situation at hand. While these environmental conditions may or may not have the same ecological value as the original river environments prior to significant human impacts, the anthropocentric value of these remediated environments is now undoubtedly many times greater than it was prior to the remediation program. The pragmatic approach taken by the Israelis in effect acknowledged that the full restoration of past riparian environments was impossible and that a balance between ecological and human goals needed to be struck to achieve a sustainable outcome.
43441234|As on many other islands, most of the seabird species breeding in Portugal's Azores archipelago are now restricted to tiny remnants of their former nesting range, owing in large part to the introduction of mammals by humans. Praia Islet, 0.12 km in size, is home to five seabird species, four of which fall under the European listing of "conservation concern." Introduced rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) on Praia had accelerated soil erosion through overgrazing, destroyed seabird nests, and competed for burrows with petrels. Restoration of seabird habitat on the islet began in 1995 and involved rabbit eradication, control of soil erosion, native plant reintroduction, and installation of artificial nests for common terns (Sterna hirundo), roseate terns (Sterna dougallii), and Madeiran storm-petrels (Oceanodroma castro). Rabbits were eradicated in 1997 using broadcast pellets containing poison. Since then, soil erosion has decreased, many of the reintroduced native plants have started to spread, and tern and Madeiran storm-petrel breeding numbers on the islet have increased by 1,548% and 43%, respectively. However, Praia Islet seabirds remain vulnerable owing to human recreational activities. This case study highlights the need to consider local conditions carefully when assessing restoration options to effect rapid mammal eradication. It also confirms the value of combining measures aimed at restoring native vegetation and improving seabird habitat quality with alien herbivore eradication.
43441153|Glossy buckthorn (Frangula alnus) is an exotic invasive shrub within many Midwestern wetlands and adjacent ecotones, including those found in several National Wildlife Refuges. Where glossy buckthorn becomes established, it can form a dense homogenous monoculture, outcompete native shrubs, and alter other ecosystem processes. Active management of glossy buckthorn is critical to minimize the spread of this species, and to restore or rehabilitate those areas presently impacted. We tested the efficacy of herbiciding and scorching on glossy buckthorn survival. Treatments were implemented in concert with management efforts currently practiced at Seney National Wildlife Refuge in Upper Michigan. One year after applying 20% glyphosate to cut buckthorn stumps, we found no difference in resprout density between this concentration of herbicide applied by sponge to stumps, scorching stumps with a propane torch, or untreated controls (p > 0.05). Additional low-volume spraying of 5% glyphosate to resprouts the following year significantly (p < 0.001 ) reduced resprout density as compared to scorching and controls, with no difference between scorch treatments and the controls. Low-volume herbicide spraying reduced seedlings by 96% and 91% one and two years following treatment, with no difference in seedling density between scorching treatments and controls. The most effective management option for reducing glossy buckthorn appears to be repetitive herbicide application, possibly for more than two years.
43441270|Cliffs and cliff-edges are often attractive places to humans, and therefore may become damaged through recreational activities. Restoring cliffs and cliff-edges, which can be important sites of biodiversity, is challenging in part because of insufficient knowledge about native plant restoration techniques for these ecologically distinct areas. The cliff-edge at Shovel Point in Tettegouche State Park, Minnesota, has been damaged by heavy visitor use. We propagated 450 threetoothed cinquefoil (Potentina tridentata) and 450 poverty grass (Danthonia spicata) plants from locally obtained seed to test revegetation techniques. We seeded plots with cinquefoil and poverty grass seeds for comparison with transplanted plots, we monitored survivorship and seedling recruitment for three seasons, and we counted the number of new shoots produced at 3 and 24 months after transplantation. Visitor access to planted areas was restricted during the study. Overall survival rates at 3, 13, and 24 months were 87.3%, 76.9%, and 68.9% for three-toothed cinquefoil and 98.7%, 96.7%, and 63.8% for poverty grass. The grand mean number of new shoots produced per plant was 0.37 and 2.11 (SE = 0.227, 0.365) at 3 and 24 months respectively for three-toothed cinquefoil and -0.2 and -3.15 (SE = 0.584, 0.295) at 3 and 24 months respectively for poverty grass. Only one seeded plot had a single poverty grass plant by the end of the study. One-way ANOVA tests revealed no statistically significant differences among treatments within species for survival or number of new shoots produced. We conclude that when transplanted, three-toothed cinquefoil and poverty grass are useful species for revegetation of damaged outcrops such as Shovel Point.
43443137|In recent years, national forest managers have increasingly practiced ecological restoration in collaboration with local communities. However, in communicating with the public about proposed projects, U.S. Forest Service employees tend to use the technical language of silviculture. Such language is difficult for lay audiences to understand; moreover, because it originated in a timber culture, it can cause confusion about a restoration project's true purpose. For collaboration to work and restoration to succeed in public lands, a new kind of language is needed; one that more clearly communicates the intended purpose of ecological restoration. In this article, we explore the kind of language typically used in national forest management and the need for something new.
43441239|Streams on western rangelands are sometimes degraded to the point that reestablishing lost ecological values requires rebuilding their physical structure, shape, and form. We evaluated the biological response to reconstruction of a small rangeland stream channel through comparisons of aquatic invertebrate communities before and after engineering activities and in relation to local and regional reference stream conditions. We measured geomorphic and riparian habitat features along with benthic macroinvertebrates for two years prior to restoration actions and for two years afterward. Stream restoration activities included the construction of a new channel to replace an incised meadow stream reach (including addition of coarse rock substrate, erosion control fabric, and willow planting) and the rehabilitation of gullies and roads in the meadow and its watershed. In postproject monitoring, we found statistically significant changes in the macroinvertebrate community and trophic structure at the restored site. These were exhibited as increases in EPT taxa (mayflies, stoneflies, caddisflies) and the proportion and diversity of sensitive taxa, decreased tolerant taxa, and an increase in consumers of riparian organic matter (shredders) and decrease in fine organic particle filter-feeders. A site monitored downstream of the restoration activities exhibited increased deposition of fines and sand one year after project construction, but was similar to preproject conditions in the second year, and the macroinvertebrate community was unchanged. Improved biological integrity at the restored site showed that rapid recovery can occur in rebuilt streams within rehabilitated watersheds, but neither degraded nor enhanced conditions were transferred to downstream habitat, at least over the initial postproject period.
43443291|To prepare for the ecological impacts of climate change, a landscape approach is needed in which existing protected areas are enlarged and secured and ecological corridors between areas are protected and restored, thus establishing a real ecological network that is resilient to future change. This article reviews the EU Birds and Habitats Directives and shows that restoration is a central objective of the Natura 2000 network of protected areas created by the directives, at least where intense human activity and development is taking place within or nearby Natura 2000 sites. However, the current legal provisions fall short of meeting the requirements necessary to help biodiversity adapt to climate change. The good news is that these shortcomings do not hinder government authorities that want to take action. The bad news is that this will always be on a voluntary basis. The article recommends a few small amendments to the Natura 2000 scheme that would require member states to develop robust restoration plans that will help nature adapt to a changing climate.
43443039|We conducted a floristic ordination and gradient analysis of plant communities extending from prairie through graminoid-dominated wetlands in the Chicago region of northeastern Illinois. Data represented about 450 species from 103 stands sampled across a gradient of six soil moisture classes ranging from dry to hydric, and included sand, gravel, dolomite, and loam prairies as well as fen, sedge meadow, floating mat, marsh, and bog. As found in other Midwestern grassland studies, vegetation aligned most strongly along a soil moisture gradient with individualistic species distributions forming a hierarchical continuum, and lower species richness at the dry and wet extremes of the moisture gradient. Most species were infrequent, with about 70 percent occurring at less than 20-percent frequency and present in less than five communities. Species that were more frequent within communities were also more widespread among communities, fitting the niche-based model of species distribution. Moreover, less than 20 percent of all species sampled were significant indicators of soil moisture gradient classes, with most representing mesic and hydric habitats. Dominant prairie grasses extended from dry to wet habitats, merging with wetland species in graminoid fen, calcareous seep and sedge meadow habitats. Hydric habitat, represented by calcareous floating mat, marsh and bog, had fewer dominant prairie species and was dominated by a wetland flora. These results provide compositional and structural models for managing and restoring vegetation across the prairie-wetland vegetation gradient of the Chicago region.
43443262|Cogongrass (imperata cylindrica) is a globally recognized invasive weed; it has caused land management problems and threatened critical habitat in the southeastern United States as well as on most continents. We tested four rates of imazapyr (1.17, 2.34, 3.51 and 4.68 L/ha), the most effective active ingredient available for cogongrass control, as two formulations (Chopper and the new generation Chopper known as Chopper GEN2) on cogongrass cover over a 27-month period in central Florida. One month after the June treatment, Chopper GEN2 provided significantly greater cover reduction than the original Chopper formulation. Twelve months after treatment, cogongrass top regrowth cover was similar among all herbicide treatments, ranging from 1% to 3%. However, 15 months after treatment, cogongrass cover was significantly higher at the lowest rates of Chopper treatments than for the Chopper GEN2 treatments, and this trend continued throughout the experiment. Overall, Chopper GEN2 provided immediate control (one month after treatment) that continued to 27 months after treatment.
43443228|In the context of a new international master's degree program, "Biodiversity in Tropical Areas and its Conservation," we led a two-week module on ecological restoration in Ecuador for 34 future conservation professionals from nine nations, including seven from Latin America. One week was spent in the cloud-forest life zone, a second in the lowland tropical forest. The ranges of biomes and socioeconomic and historical settings that commonly occur in tropical regions were discussed. We saw these students as future communicators engaged not only in management of protected areas, but also as deeply involved in outreach, negotiation, and consensus-building among stakeholders. Students were introduced to concepts and techniques for evaluating a degraded landscape in order to determine past and present land uses and conflicts of interest among stakeholders. They were instructed on how to select a reference model using sequential reference sites and to incorporate nine attributes of satisfactorily restored ecosystems into restoration plans. In nine small groups, the 34 participating students prepared proposals to obtain funding for a restoration project in their home countries or in one of the two regions of Ecuador that were visited in the module. For this purpose, each group developed a schematic model showing how the target ecosystems were degraded and landscapes fragmented. In a second schema, they proposed a program to restore or rehabilitate different landscape units and to reintegrate fragmented landscapes. Highlights and lessons learned from this modular exercise are presented and discussed.
43443190|This paper examines the historical origins of ecological restoration in the arid and semiarid deserts of the southwestern USA. Scientific knowledge and aesthetic valuations both emerged during a period of acute environmental degradation between 1893 and 1905, strongly influencing subsequent debates and practices. In science and aesthetics alike, the historical nature of southwestern landscapes was occluded: Clementsian ecology and range science posited a climax condition and an "original capacity" for livestock, while aesthetic treatments such as those of John Van Dyke saw transcendent and timeless beauty in the dramatic dynamics of actively degrading landscapes. In recent decades, southwestern ecologists have renounced Clementsian ecology and its implied telos of "pristine" presettlement conditions. But aesthetic ideals continue to influence broader debates and practices of ecological restoration in the region, specifically with regard to grasslands, riparian areas, livestock grazing, and fire.
43443193|In addressing land degradation, a number of watershed rehabilitation programs have been carried out in Ethiopia. This study aims to financially quantify watershed rehabilitation in a way that incorporates major costs and returns. We also construct scenarios to portray cost-benefit information about the future. The data were obtained from a physical survey and supplemented with secondary sources. Total cost and return values for the watersheds were compared monetarily through cost-benefit analysis and these values were extrapolated to the future. The results indicate that the benefit was Ethiopian Birr 918,049 and 4,651,167 (US$73,821 and US$374,008) for the smallest and largest of the rehabilitated watersheds, respectively, while the expenditure was Birr 154,178 and 205,712 (US$17,701 and US$23,620). Under optimal management in the future, these benefits can reach up to Birr 19,334,643 and 76,699,254 (US$2,219,821 and US$8,805,884), while the costs remain the same. The results clearly indicate that investment in watershed rehabilitation may be an economically viable short-term and long-term proposition. Hence there is a strong case for sustainable management of rehabilitated watersheds in view of the very high economic benefits from the rehabilitation.
43441125|In recent years residents of the intermontane West have experienced a series of expensive and high-profile fire seasons. One result is that the concept of ecological restoration has moved squarely into public view. As scientists and practitioners continue to refine the definition of ecological restoration as a practical matter, citizens are forming their own perceptions of how restoration should be applied to local forests. We used a recent public opinion survey in north-central Arizona to assess public views of restoration. Our findings indicate broad support for restoration although portions of the population, particularly those in rural areas, see restoration primarily as a means to protect human lives and property from fire. Most importantly, our findings suggest that a majority of the public in this region have a view of restoration beyond fire risk reduction, but vary in their willingness to accept dramatic changes to forest conditions.
43443165|The Huachuca water umbel (HWU, Lilaeopsis schaffneriana ssp. recurva) is a federally endangered aquatic perennial plant endemic to southeastern Arizona and northern Sonora, Mexico. The species was listed because of threats posed by the degradation and loss of wetlands throughout its limited range. Although the species is easily grown in a greenhouse, information regarding specific requirements that allow long-term persistence of HWU in natural habitats is lacking, and few efforts to reintroduce this species have been attempted. Using greenhouse-propagated material, we introduced 128 individual HWU plugs into four spring-fed wetland sites near Elgin, Arizona. The sites represent a range of habitat conditions. After two years, overall survival of transplanted plugs was 60% and the area occupied had increased by 845%. This study documented the response of transplanted HWU to periodic drying, disturbance due to scouring and trampling, and sediment deposition. We also examined the number of viable seeds incorporated into a seed bank at the study location in the first season after transplanting. This case study offers a model for watershedwide reintroduction efforts of endangered plants. It also illustrates the importance of low-level disturbance and the necessity of long-term monitoring and maintenance of competing plant species in establishing viable species reintroductions.
43440696|The historical implementation of large river engineering projects in China highlights an inconsistency between humans resource needs and the integrity of rivers on which humans depend. Currently, China's massive water projects have the attention of international media and the global scientific community, while a series of smaller, local projects designed to enhance the quality and function of rivers across China remains largely undocumented. The implementation of such smallscale restoration efforts signals an important paradigm shift related to environmental values and awareness in China, as national funding is diverted in a progressive campaign to support local restoration practices. Because of China's substantial role in directing the health of the planet (Shapiro 2001), and with many developing countries struggling to manage limited supplies of clean water, it is important to highlight the successes and failures of China's efforts to enhance the condition of its degraded riverine systems. The challenges and successes of these projects have important implications for global efforts, particularly in developing countries, to improve the quality, vitality, and utility of river systems.
43441269|Invasive perennial species are frequently a barrier to native plant establishment in fertile sedge meadow wetland restorations. Amending soils with high carbon-to-nitrogen (C:N) materials may deplete nitrogen (N) and limit the establishment of invasive species, although the effectiveness of such amendments at depleting soil N in restored wetlands is largely unknown. Therefore we incorporated four high C:N materials (cedar, white pine, and red oak sawdust, as well as sucrose) into the soils of nonvegetated plots in a restored sedge meadow wetland and measured soil ammonium-N and nitrate-N in relation to nonamended control plots over a 25-week period. All amendments depleted nitrate-N concentrations equivalently (67%-100%), although both the timing and the duration of this depletion varied among amendments. White pine sawdust was most effective, depleting nitrate-N for the entire 25 weeks. Sawdust from red oak and cedar depleted nitrate-N after 5 and 13 weeks, respectively. Lowered nitrate-N concentrations then persisted for the remaining 20 weeks in the red oak treatments, while the effects of cedar were short-lived (8 weeks). Sucrose depleted nitrate-N for 13 weeks. No amendment depleted ammonium-N concentrations, although cedar sawdust caused initial ammonium-N concentrations to increase by 300%-700%. Based on our findings, white pine sawdust will be more likely to deplete N effectively during the establishment of sedge meadow wetlands. It is unknown, however, if this depletion will suppress invasive perennials long enough to allow desired native species to establish a closed canopy and take up nitrogen, thereby limiting the chances of future invasions.
43443138|In the montane grasslands of Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, non-native plant species are affecting the distribution and cover of native plant species. Two exotic nitrogen-fixing Eurasian sweetclover species (Melilotus officinalis and M. alba) occur in patches that have less available nitrogen (N) and a species composition different from surrounding grassland patches. I tested whether burning sweetclover-invaded patches would increase native grass and perennial diversity and available soil nitrogen at this elevation. I burned 24 sweetclover-invaded and noninvaded field plots with a propane torch in May 1999. Burning increased species richness and ground cover. Specifically, one year later native, grass, and perennial species increased in previously invaded patches and sweetclover or other exotic species associated with sweetclover did not increase. Soil ammonium (NH) levels increased immediately after the burn in May, and nitrate (NO) levels increased later in July and August. New species appeared only in burned plots. While other methods to reduce sweetclover might remove resources, fire increases light, space, and nutrient availability for native species that, in turn, suppress the exotic species.
43441295|Purple milkweed (Asdepias purpurascens) is a relatively rare member of the flora of oak savannas and open oak woodlands. It is endangered in several states and has been the subject of special conservation efforts. A number of native populations of this species arose spontaneously at Pleasant Valley Conservancy State Natural Area in south-central Wisconsin after oak savanna restoration was initiated in 1997. Ecological observations of permanently marked stands made over a ten-year period have shown that growth is highly variable from year to year, and flowering and seed set are sporadic and unpredictable. Germination studies have determined that seed viability is very high. Greenhouse-raised plants have been successfully transplanted to the field and followed for three years. Transplants have also been used in a forbs garden, where plants could be monitored more effectively. Pod formation and seed set are highly variable, both in the field and in the forbs garden, and may partly explain the rarity of this species.
43443109|Oregon white oak (or Garry oak, Quercus garryana) woodlands and savannas of the coastal Pacific Northwest are legacies of an anthropogenic fire regime that ended with European settlement in the mid-1800s. Historically, these oak stands had a sparse overstory and an understory dominated by fire-tolerant grasses and forbs. Post-settlement fire suppression resulted in widespread invasion and subsequent overstory dominance by conifers, causing mortality of shade-intolerant oak trees and shifting understory plant communities to shade-tolerant species. In a study on four southwestern Washington sites, our objective was to determine the effects of overstory conifer removal, primarily Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), on microclimate, native and non-native understory cover, and sapling growth. Overstory conifer removal created a warmer, drier understory microclimate during summer months. Conifer removal had little effect on native understory cover during five years post-treatment; however, cover of non-native plants, primarily grasses and woody understory species, increased significantly during the same period. Height growth of Oregon white oak and Douglas-fir saplings exhibited a delayed, but positive, response to overstory conifer removal, although the treatment response of Douglas-fir was 133% greater than that of oak. Increases in non-native understory cover and the rapid growth of young Douglas-fir indicate the importance of pre- and post-treatment understory management to control undesirable plants and promote native species such as Oregon white oak.
