24113971|In accordance with the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934, the United States government granted land to Native American tribes. As a result, the Southern Ute Indian Tribe received title to land and the right to mine coal on privately owned territory. The United States gained this right pursuant to the Coal Lands Acts of 1909 and 1910 which enabled the government to issue land patents while still maintaining a public right to the coal contained in those lands. Today, technology enables coal miners to capture the gases released by coal and create valuable energy. In Amoco Production Co. v. Southern Ute Indian Tribe, the United States Supreme Court determined that upon enacting the Coal Lands Acts in 1909 and 1910, Congress intended to reserve the coal to the government, but not the released gases. Therefore, the Southern Ute Indian Tribe has no right to produce the energy from the gas. This Note describes the Supreme Court's analysis and discusses alternative methods of statutory interpretation. In particular, if the Court had interpreted the statute dynamically, it could have considered the statute in light of present circumstances, thus benefitting today's society.
24114332|Like many other areas of law, the development of environmental law has been strongly influenced by notions of fairness. This should not be surprising, since environmental law has been developed by lawyers, who are self-selected to be fairness-oriented and trained to think in terms of fairness. While large environmental gains have been achieved in the thirty-year history of environmental law, progress seems to have reached a plateau. Partisanship has poisoned the debate on how best to proceed in making further environmental progress. I attribute the failings and the current stalemate in environmental law to our obsession with fairness. Fairness-thinking has created a culture where stakeholders are conditioned to make self-serving arguments, not considered judgments about the public interest. While this is true in many areas of law, this has become especially troubling in environmental law. I propose that environmental law and policymakers pay more attention to efficiency arguments and efficiency-thinking. While I do not propose a tyranny of economists to supplant fairness-thinking, I argue that efficiency-thinking can provide an important complement to the fairness-thinking that has dominated environmental law and policy. This article explores the theoretical arguments for fairness-based and efficiency-based programs, and examines the empirical support for some of these arguments. The theoretical arguments for an increased role for efficiency-thinking are quite clear. The evidence for more efficiency-based environmental regulation is somewhat thin, but with some important caveats, vindicates the economic theory in support of efficiency-based regulation.
24115126|This Article identifies and analyzes the obstacles that presently bar the rise of renewables, evaluates the role of the current policy favoriteemission pricingand offers design recommendations for a comprehensive U.S. renewables policy. Successful climate change mitigation requires a timely shift to renewable sources of energy, such as sunlight, wind, or tides, to decarbonize today's high-carbon electricity sector. But market pull alone is not strong enough. This Article discusses the most widely cited economic barriers and identifies and evaluates additional obstacles related to the electricity sector's market structure and regulatory framework. Emission pricing is largely considered the most efficient policy to drive the timely transition to a renewables-based electricity sector. This Article argues that, for political, conceptual, and, most of all, regulatory reasons, emission pricing will not fuel the rise of renewables at the speed necessary for successful climate change mitigation. Rather, a comprehensive renewables policy is required to address each and every one of the existing barriers. Drawing on the policy experience of other sectors and nations, I offer recommendations for the design of a comprehensive U.S. renewables policy. Many of the proposed policy recommendations aim at non-economic barriers, which can be overcome through regulatory intervention. Once these barriers have been removed, policy support for renewables can focus on the remaining economic barriers and, hence, becomes far less costly. In light of the plethora of obstacles to a timely transition to renewables, this Article calls for concerted policy action by scientists, engineers, economists, lawyers, marketers, and educators to fuel the renewables revolution.
24112344|Noiseunwanted soundis an unobtrusive form of environmental pollution. Unlike air or water pollution, there is no residue to accumulate in the environment; and people are able, to some extent, to adapt unconsciously to noise. These characteristics have obscured the fact that environmental noise is an increasingly serious source of physiological and psychological stress. While noise pollution is not at present as critical a problem as air and water pollution, there is evidence that if environmental noise is not controlled, today's children may become partially deaf adults. A number of legislative bodies, with commendable foresight, have recently enacted noise control statutes intended to prevent such a development. The author suggests that the Federal Noise Control Act of 1972, together with local ordinances loosely patterned after the New York City Noise Control Code, will provide a comprehensive statutory scheme for noise abatement. The interpretive, regulatory, and enforcement problems which will likely confront the Environmental Protection Agency and the New York City Bureau of Noise Abatement in the administration of this statutory scheme are also analyzed in this Comment.
24114608|When Congress amended the federal Superfund statute in 1986, it closed the door to most litigation regarding the adequacy of cleanup at hazardous waste sites at any point before a cleanup action is complete. While this timing-of-review provision successfully blocked potentially responsible parties from avoiding or delaying cleanup costs, it has also sometimes prevented citizen suits that challenge EPA response actions that would allegedly exacerbate irreparable environmental harm. The courts, with few exceptions, have read the timing-of-review provision as an absolute bar to judicial review despite the circumstances. In Frey v. Environmental Protection Agency, plaintiffs sought judicial review of a long-running cleanup that they claimed would increase releases of toxic chemicals. EPA argued that the timing-of review provision barred such review until the matter was completed. The Seventh Circuit clarified how "completeness" should be evaluated, agreeing with plaintiffs that the action was effectivelyif not officiallycomplete. This Note argues that although the court did not expressly base its decision on the existence of an irreparable harm claim, it gave citizens a new opportunity to raise these claims in the future. However, the Note concludes that the court should have gone further to explain its reasoning and scope.
24115003|In its en banc decision in National Cotton Council v. EPA, the Sixth Circuit decided that EPA could not exempt pesticide users from the requirements of the Clean Water Act. The court found that persons using pesticides in or near water must apply for a permit under the Clean Water Act, even if the pesticide had been approved for use by EPA under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act. EPA must now create a new rule on aquatic pesticide use. This new rule should contain monitoring requirements, public participation, and best available technology standards. The best approach would be a watershed permitting scheme, which concentrates on the regional use of pollutants to balance competing interests. The flexibility of a watershed-based permitting scheme would be particularly useful if agricultural pesticide users are required to apply for Clean Water Act permits.
24114273|In 2001, the Supreme Court decided Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook County v. United States Army Corps of Engineers (SWANCC). In this five-to-four decision, the Court held that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) lacked the authority under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA) to regulate "isolated" intrastate wetlands and waters that serve as habitat for migratory birds. The Court found the FWPCA's jurisdiction is limited to navigable waters and non-navigable waters that have a "significant nexus" to navigable waters, such as wetlands adjacent to navigable waters. However, the Court did not clearly define which adjacent wetlands and tributaries are within the scope of the FWPCA, generating considerable uncertainty about the FWPCA's jurisdiction. Some courts and commentators read SWANCC broadly to limit the FWPCA's application to only navigable waters and non-navigable wetlands and tributaries that immediately abut navigable waters. Other courts read SWANCC narrowly to mean that the FWPCA does not reach isolated, non-navigable waters that have no connection to navigable waters, but that its jurisdiction does reach inland waters or wetlands that have any hydrological or ecological connection to navigable waters. This Article proposes an intermediate position that requires that non-navigable waters contribute more than a mere hydrological connection or drop of water to navigable water to come within the FWPCA's jurisdiction, but also rejects the view that adjacent wetlands and tributaries must directly abut navigable waters to constitute "waters of the United States." The Article concludes that courts should interpret the Act to include any non-navigable waters, wetlands, or tributaries that possess a significant hydrological nexus with navigable waters.
24113614|What, is truly "environmental" about environmental law? This Article is the first attempt to answer this question by integrating Law & Literature scholarship with the study of environmental law. I argue that competing narratives of nature and culture common to the American environmental imagination play a more significant role in environmental law and litigation than previously acknowledged. These competing narratives, communicated through a known set of environmental stories and tropes, are used by attorneys to establish, frame, narrate and argue their cases, and they are absorbed, reimagined, reframed and retold by judges in their written opinions, making environmental law a kind of expressive, literary event. To illustrate this process, the Article examines two important and highly visible case studies: the reintroduction of gray wolves into the Northern Rocky Mountains and the public nuisance climate change lawsuit that culminated in the Supreme Court's decision in Connecticut v. American Electric Power. A close reading of the pleadings, legal briefs and judicial opinions in these case studies demonstrates that courts respond to and reinforce traditional environmental stories, such as wilderness tales and the environmental apocalyptic, but evince a strong preference for a less well-known story, which I call the Progressive Management Machine. The Progressive Management Machine promises reconciliation of competing environmental narratives through administrative process and science-driven decision making, but, in so doing, masks its own contravention of those same narratives. The approach developed here launches a larger project exploring the dynamic relationship between environmental law, literature and narrative. This Article, like the larger project, seeks to elucidate not only various litigators' and judges' rhetorical strategies but also the purposes, content and significance of environmental law.
24114227|In Sierra Club v. EPA the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit held that the EPA had acted within the Clean Air Act's statutory mandate in promulgating the Mobile Source Air Toxics Rule despite the fact that the rule did not actual require any reduction in emission levels. By allowing an excessive consideration of cost, a continued deferral of rulemaking, and a perpetual search for more information, the court failed to ensure that emissions be reduced through technological innovation as the statue directs. The decision is insufficient in its scrutiny of the rule's relation to the statutory mandate, and thereby establishes a dangerous erosion of technology forcing standards.
24114758|States and localities increasingly recognize the need to link land use and water supply planning. As the populace grows and sprawl continues, the strain on available natural resources, particularly water, makes this recognition all the more important. This Article addresses an increasingly common type of this planning link"assured supply" laws that require developers to prove they have secured adequate water stock before commencing construction. The Article performs a qualitative analysis of the potential benefits and costs of such laws and finds that, on balance, assured supply laws provide at least five significant benefits: consumer protection, greater holistic project- and agency-level planning, improved efficiencies in water rights allocation, and increased water conservation. Notably, however, these laws appear to do very little to diminish sprawl and, if designed incorrectly, may actually exacerbate it. The Article then extracts five dimensions around which localities might design their assured supply laws to maximize their benefits and minimize possible costs, concluding that such laws are most likely to deliver optimal benefits when they are (1) mandatory, (2) stringent, (3) statewide, (4) broadly applicable, applying to more than only large projects, and (5) interconnected with broader land-water and environmental planning mechanisms.
24114990|Anglo-American whalemen in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries used customs largely of their own creation to resolve disputes at sea over contested whales. These customs were remarkably effective: litigation was rare and violence even rarer. Legal scholars such as Professor Robert Ellickson have correctly pointed to these customs as an example of how close-knit communities settle disputes without recourse to formal legal institutions or even knowledge of the applicable law. However, Ellickson's belief that these whaling customs were universally followed at sea and were in turn adopted by courts is not entirely accurate. While courts often deferred, in part, to whaling practices, judges and lawyers were also active participants in creating the property law of whaling. The British whaling cases of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries were part of a discussion dating back to Justinian's Digest about the actions necessary to secure possession and ownership of ferae naturae. British courts at the turn of the nineteenth century did much to advance one whaling custom over a competing practice: several late eighteenth century cases accepted the norm of "fast-fish, loose-fish" as the universal custom of whaling, while the competing practice of "iron holds the whale" was ignored by British courts and was, thereafter, abandoned by whalemen in the Greenland fishery. However, in the 1820s, British lawyers and judges applied the emerging action of interference with trade to whaling disputes, thereby reintroducing aspects of the previously rejected custom of iron holds the whale.
24114534|Contemporary debates over the worldwide trend toward privatization of water systems and supplies have a historical precedent in the controversies that raged in Gilded Age America over the control of irrigation-canal systems by eastern- and foreign-owned corporations. This Article shows how the law developed in Colorado in this period advanced the agrarian ideal of wide distribution of property in water by applying the principles behind the appropriation doctrine to water corporations claiming ownership of this crucial resource. The involvement of corporations funded by outside capital in Western water projects was seen as a threat to the contemporary yeoman ideal of small, family farms, an ideal that many hoped would solve the social and economic ills of the time. This Article discusses several concrete legal issues that arose in Colorado in the 1880s and '90s, demonstrating how the principle of public ownership of water and the use requirement were applied to curtail the power of water corporations and preserve the profits of irrigated agriculture for small-scale farmers. In conclusion, the Article discusses several implications of this early western water-corporation law. First, it calls into question the view of Gilded Age law as primarily serving the interests of the wealthy and powerful. Second, it challenges the common typology of property, in which private property is opposed with public, demonstrating that these two ideas can be in harmony, with the more important dichotomy distinguishing between widespread, diffuse ownership and concentrated ownership. Finally, the Article briefly points to several implications of this history for today's water-privatization controversies.
24111415|Space is a place, and can include the bottom of the sea or the center of the earth as well as the atmosphere and so-called empty outer space.
44320325|How should courts balance conflicting national security and environmental protection interests? The Supreme Court gave a fact-specific answer in Winter v. Natural Resources Defense Council, finding that the interests of the military outweighed the interests of environmental plaintiffs in this case. Winter is hardly revolutionarycourts have long balanced competing interests when determining equitable relief and that is precisely what the Court did in Winter, based on the unique circumstances presented. The Supreme Court gave greater deference to military commanders than the lower courts in reviewing a preliminary injunction issued to remedy the Navy's failure to prepare an environmental impact statement pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). In doing so, the Winter Court substituted its own judgment regarding the public interest among competing national priorities and unmoored itself from traditional standards of appellate review. While saying very little about the underlying merits of the case, the Court majority held that the district court abused its discretion, and on that basis it vacated two of six mitigation measures imposed under the preliminary injunction.
24114757|Railroads are operating waste transfer stations in their rights of way without any governmental oversight, despite the fact that solid waste management and disposal has long been regulated at the state and local level. This incongruous situation is the result of railroads' aggressive litigation campaign to preempt generally applicable laws under a federal statute designed to deregulate rail economics. This phenomenon illustrates new uses of preemption doctrine by regulated entities, and some agencies, as a shield against state regulation even when there is no effective federal regulation to fill the gap. Restrained preemption jurisprudence is a necessary counterweight to regulatory voids, as Congress cannot anticipate all creative legal arguments that urge preemption based on unclear statutory language, is often imprecise when defining the scope of preemption provisions, and does not readily revise statutes to correct erroneous judicial interpretations. Courts must therefore have a primary role to ensure that preemption is not unintentionally overextended to the detriment of health and safety regulations. However, the courts' declining use of a presumption against preemption of police power laws has upset the delicate balance between federal and state interests. With a view towards restoring the presumption against preemption, this Article criticizes past attempts to ground it upon historical areas of state regulation, and suggests grounding it upon a line of Supreme Court cases that use regulatory gaps to mark the plausible limits of congressional intent to preempt. This proposed revival of the presumption against preemption also draws support from constitutional limitations on Congress's powers to veto state laws. George Parisek wonders what's in the dust clouds that spew from the giant trash heap near his home in North Bergen. "There are times it looks like a fire, there's so much dust, " says Parisek, a retired mechanic. "Igrow tomatoes and peppers, and this stuff is all over them. This drives me crazy." He and the neighbors constantly hose down their houses, their cars and their gardens to wash away the grime. And they wonder: Is it dangerous to breathe this stuff? Should they let their kids play in the yard? Should they eat the vegetables they grow in their gardens?
24112699|Recently, the Department of the Interior filed civil complaints against mercury polluters under an obscure section of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899. Little is known of the history of "the Refuse Act" or of its applicability to the modern problem of water pollution. This Comment attempts to define the scope of the Act through examination of its legislative, judicial and administrative history and furthermore, explores possible modes of action and remedies available under it. The author feels that use of the Refuse Act as a complement to existing federal water quality legislation, essentially embodied in the Water Quality Act of 1965, will contribute to attainment of the goal of comprehensive and effective control of water pollution.
24115041|Since its construction in 1940, the All-American Canal (AAC) could hardly be considered "All-American." Instead, for over sixty years a substantial portion of the AAC water seeped from the canal into the ground and crossed the border into northern Mexico. In the mid-1990s, the United States Bureau of Reclamation developed a project to replace a portion of the AAC with a parallel, concrete-lined canal, which will prevent this water-seepage loss and recover the water for use by hundreds of thousands of Southern Californians. At the same time, however, the lining project is expected to cut off the water supply to farmers in the Mexicali Valley who have been using the water for irrigation for decades, and will also dry up a flow of seepage water that has been sustaining wetlands habitat in the Colorado River Delta. In 2006, a coalition of community and environmental groups in the United States and Mexico brought suit in federal court against the Bureau of Reclamation to halt further construction on the project. Yet their claims were ultimately precluded by a 1944 treaty that fixed the apportionment of Colorado River water between the United States and Mexico and intervening legislation passed in December of 2006 mandating that the project proceed "without delay." The rigid terms of these acts provided no room for the courts to devise a flexible or equitable remedy for those harmed by the unilateral lining project. This Note argues that the disposition of the CDEM litigation, while perhaps proper as a legal matter, is unsatisfying. The material and social investment the people of the Mexicali Valley expended on reliance of the seepage water from the AAC, whether or not buttressed by a viable legal claim, should not be so easily disregarded. Instead, bordering nations should develop legal regimes that can adapt to changed circumstances and adjust obligations over time. This would encourage parallel rather than unilateral action by riparian states, and prevent private parties from needing to resort to litigation to advocate for their rights to shared resources.
24114040|This Article makes two contributions to the debate over how best to promote compliance with international environmental law. First, it builds a bridge between two popular models of compliance: supranational adjudication, which allows private parties to bring claims against states to international tribunals; and the managerial model, which tries to persuade states to comply by, inter alia, monitoring their actions. Proponents of both models have overlooked the way in which complaint-based monitoringthat is, monitoring by independent experts based on complaints from private partiescan be a form of evolving or quasi-supranational adjudication as well as part of a managerial regime. Second, the Article evaluates the submissions procedure created by the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation, a pioneering example of complaint-based monitoring in international environmental law. I conclude that the procedure has the potential to be effective in both supranational and managerial terms and that it is an important precedent for other international environmental agreements.
24114644|This Essay shows how combining Professor Frischmann's infrastructure commons concept with Economic Dynamic Theory can help analyze normative questions about how to manage commons resources that serve as infrastructure. Economic Dynamic Theory focuses on analyzing how various institutional choices can influence change over time. This approach can work even when we cannot quantify many of the important benefits associated with infrastructure commons, such as its capacity to encourage future innovations or maintain healthy ecosystems. This Essay shows that sophisticated theorists, such as Lawrence Lessig, have tacitly applied this sort of analysis to infrastructure commons problems. Economic Dynamic Analysis provides a means of building on Professor Frischmann's insights to better manage the infrastructure commons.
24114764|Recent scientific reports demonstrate that despite more than thirty years of environmental regulation, bird and wildlife species as well as ecosystem services, are in unprecedented decline. Pesticides are at least in part to blame for these profound declines. U.S. pesticide law has failed to carry out its mission of environmental protection. A number of recently-filed lawsuits assert that the registration of certain pesticides violates the federal Endangered Species Act. One of the great ironies of environmental law is that the ecological consequences of pesticide use, which fueled the environmental movement of the late 1960s and early 1970s, largely have been ignored for the past thirty years. Only recently has interest renewed in the ecological (as opposed to human health) risks posed by pesticides. Moreover, the explosion of pesticidalgenetically modified organism (GMO) use in agriculture raises concerns regarding the novel risks to biodiversity posed by these new pesticides. Surprisingly, however, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) has not changed significantly with regard to ecological matters since 1972 and remains primarily a consumer protection statute not wellsuited for ecological protection. The Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) implementation of FIFRA has not kept pace with our developing understanding of the uncertainty, complexity, and changing nature of ecological systems. This Article breaks new ground by being the first to use the new legal discipline of "eco-pragmatism" to analyze, and then reinvent, U.S. pesticide law to better protect ecological resources. For years, environmental legal scholars have sought a middle ground between absolutist risk-based approaches to environmental regulation and cost/benefit analysis approaches. In the past several years, scholars have begun exploring the emerging field of eco-pragmatisma dramatic new framework for environmental decision-making developed by Professor Daniel Farberto achieve a workable middle ground. Although a number of prominent legal scholars have analyzed ecopragmatism in a general sense, none have applied an eco-pragmatic framework to any environmental pollution control law. This Article is the first to do so. This Article builds on Farber 's work and others by first bolstering eco-pragmatism through consciously incorporating principles of ecological science and then applying the strengthened eco-pragmatism to a long-overlooked area, pesticide law. As the first application of ecopragmatism to a field of environmental pollution control law, this Article is an important step in the development of this area of legal theory. By analyzing current pesticide law as well as EPA's implementation of such law through an eco-pragmatic lens, this Article identifies areas of the law in need of revision and proposes revisions based on eco-pragmatic principles, which if implemented would greatly enhance our ability to protect critical ecological resources.
44321074|Originally introduced in the United States through the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969, environmental assessment requirements are now incorporated in the environmental laws of countries worldwide. These requirements are viewed with ambivalence by some developing country governments, which see them at best as a nuisance, and at worst as a barrier to progress. For citizens in these countries, however, environmental assessments and their rigorous judicial enforcement may provide the only mechanism available to hold governments accountable for their decisions on major infrastructure projects. This Article describes the legal battle over one such project, the Chalillo dam in Belize. Plans by a Canadian-owned utility to build the hydroelectric facility on Belize's Macal River sparked a national and international debate and culminated in the first environmental lawsuit to reach the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in London, the highest court of appeal for Belize. Belizean environmental groups argued, inter alia, that the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the dam was fundamentally flawed, containing errors in the geological description of the dam's foundation. In an unusually divided 3-2 ruling, the Privy Council upheld Belize's decision to allow construction of the dam. The majority judgment discounted the geological flaws in the EIA, ruling that the decision to build the dam was essentially a sovereign one for Belize to make. The dissent, meanwhile, maintained that the geological flaws could not be ignored, and that Belizean authorities should be held to the same standards as those in the developed world. To do any less, the dissent reasoned, would undermine good governance and the rule of law. This Article argues that the trajectory of the case itself, as well as its aftermath, demonstrate the wisdom of the minority view.
24115005|The goal of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 is to conserve and recover species. The first step in species conservation and recovery is listing of the species as threatened or endangered under section 4 of the Act, a task charged to the Fish and Wildlife Service. In order for a species to be listed, its status must be evaluated with reference to five enumerated factors in section 4 across "all or a significant portion of [the species'] range." In this phrase, "range" and "significant" have ambiguous meanings. Due to these inherent ambiguities, the phrase has been the source of much litigation and listing headaches for the Fish and Wildlife Service. Recently, courts have become involved in deciphering the meaning of this phrase and its application to section 4 listing decisions. In Defenders of Wildlife v. Norton and Tucson Herpetological Society v. Salazar, the Ninth Circuit announced its recent interpretation of the phrase. According to the court, "range" means historic, not merely current, range, and the Fish and Wildlife Service must justify any determination that a species' historic range is insignificant. The meaning of"significant," in contrast, is ambiguous, and its interpretation is thus left to the Fish and Wildlife Service. However, the Ninth Circuit did suggest that a species' chance of persistence is a good indicator of the significance of portions of the species' range, and therefore whether the species should be listed in those portions of its range. This Note defends the Ninth Circuit's opinion that "range" refers to a species' historic range. It also argues that persistence is indeed a good indicator of significance, although it advocates the use of a more stringent conception of persistence than the Ninth Circuit suggested. It argues that any measurement of persistence intended to reflect the significance of portions of a species' range under the Endangered Species Act must account for the three factors encompassed in the term "significant": the size of the range, the biological importance of the range to the species, and the cultural importance of the species' continued presence in that range.
24114620|This Article proposes a new framework for analyzing certain claims for pesticide damages. With the Supreme Court's recent decision in Bates v. Dow Agrosciences, plaintiffs in many pesticide cases can now bring a much larger range of state law claims to recover damages for fraud, improper testing, and other claims unrelated to pesticide labeling. This Article argues that by expressly allowing such state law claims while reaffirming the importance of uniform labeling, Bates should encourage litigants and judges to rely more heavily on the label language in litigating negligence claims against pesticide users and to look more broadly to nuisance and trespass claims to obtain relief for pesticide use that complies with the label but nevertheless results in harm. Finally, this Article suggests greater emphasis be placed on new and existing state and federal statutes to obtain relief for pesticide related harm.
44321072|Property right advocates welcomed the Supreme Court's 1992 decision in Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council. Justice Scalia's opinion for the Court established a categorical taking when all economic value is lost as a result of regulation. Advocates of unconstrained environmental and land use regulation were quick to suggest (wishfully) that Lucas's impacts would be minimal since most regulations do not destroy all economic value. Fifteen years later, some who saw only dark clouds on the regulatory horizon as a consequence o/Lucas now see a rainbow with a pot of gold at its end. This newly optimistic understanding of Lucas stems from Justice Scalia's reference to "background principles" of common law nuisance and property. These background principles serve not only as an exception in categorical takings, but also as an affirmative defense that immunizes government from virtually all takings claims. In this Article, I argue that there is nothing extraordinary in Justice Scalia's statement that background principles of the common law are relevant to the definition of property rights. What is extraordinary is the claim that, consistent with the historic evolution of the common law, these principles are almost infinitely malleable in the hands of courts and legislatures. It is this claim that creates the deception of a pot of gold at the end of the Lucas rainbow, and it reflects a misunderstanding of the common law process, a distortion of Justice Scalia's meaning in Lucas, and disregard for the requirements of the Fifth Amendment takings clause.
24114133|In Good v. United States the Federal Circuit tried to clarify the parameters of the reasonable investment-backed expectations test. In ruling against Good's regulatory takings claim, the court held that Good had actual and constructive knowledge of the regulations limiting the use of his property. The court's holding expands prior analyses in two important ways. First, it inquired into Good's expectations after he had already acquired the property. Second, it imputed knowledge of growing public environmental awareness to Good. Given the facts, the court's holding unnecessarily broadened prior case law and did not define its limits for future courts to follow.
44321175|Chemicals and their attendant risks are ubiquitous in modern life. The certainty with which exposure to a chemical can be linked to a suspected harm often determines whether liability against a manufacturer (and therefore recourse for a victim) is warranted. Problematically, for many chemicals that are suspected toxins, certainty is a nuanced and difficult construct for science and law. The resulting knowledge gap enhances the possibility of legal failurelegitimate victims suffering real harms will go uncompensated, and phantom risks will subject faultless corporations to potentially ruinous liability. Many courts consider epidemiological studies to be the "gold standard" for linking exposure to allegedly toxic substances with harm, but these studies are not always available or favorable to one party. Expert witnesses may therefore attempt to reanalyze existing epidemiological studies. Trial courts, exercising their Daubert-mandated gatekeeping role, generally exclude these reanalyses. However, this Note argues that the premises for this restrictive view of epidemiological-study reanalyses are problematic, and, therefore, the strong judicial presumption of exclusion is ripe for review. For example, in 2011, the First Circuit implicitly endorsed this less restrictive view in Milward v. Acuity Specialty Products Group, Inc. when it found the trial court abused its discretion by excluding an expert's causation opinion that contained epidemiological-study reanalyses.
24112400|Many of us are upset about pollution and concerned that environmental values too often take second place to monetary considerations, but too few of us take action to protect the values we think are important. In California, the field of water pollution control is open to the citizen who wants to get involved in making his government work better. This Comment attempts to explain, to the lawyer and layman alike, the California system of water pollution control and how the concerned citizen can act to improve water quality in his area.
24111317|Judicial review of environmental impact statements prepared in accordance with the mandate of the National Environmental Policy Act has become increasingly comprehensive. Courts have recognized their responsibility both to enforce federal agency compliance with the procedural requirements of NEPA and to review, at least to a limited extent, substantive agency decisions. In both of these capacities one of the most important issues confronting the courts is NEPA's command that agencies discuss alternatives to proposed projects being evaluated. This article examines various means by which courts and agencies deal with the "alternatives" issue, and suggests novel procedural devices to facilitate effective but reasonable enforcement of NEPA.
24114448|In this Article, the authors challenge the conventional wisdom in the legal, economics, and policy literature that unilateral (as opposed to collective) action by individual countries to restrain despoliation of the global commons is presumptively irrational. The conventional view flows from Garrett Hardin's classic "Tragedy of the Commons" analysis, in which commons preservation, though collectively desirable, is economically irrational when undertaken by individuals, hence the tragedy. Motivated by the unexpected actions of many individual nations and states to address climate change (a classic global commons problem) even in the absence of an unambiguous global framework, the authors show that the market imperfections that characterize some global commons problems, including those of climate change, can diverge from those underpinning the standard "Tragedy of the Commons." The authors argue that this divergence makes room for significant rational unilateral action towards commons preservation, and that this has been underappreciated by many scholars who instinctively disparage unilateral action. In place of the conventional wisdom, the authors suggest that short of the ideal "full glass" of optimal collective action, there exists a "glass half full" of suboptimal unilateral action by larger subglobal governments that is better than no regulation (and hence no benefits) at all, and, indeed, the evidence shows that some larger subglobal governments, the United States in particular, should actually be doing more to address climate change. Furthermore, action by both large and small subglobal governments may function as a mechanism by which individual governments can help trigger the implementation of the preferred solution of an international framework for collective action.
24115035|In United States v. Atlantic Research Corp., the Supreme Court declared that a potentially responsible party can sue other parties under CERCLA for recovery of costs associated with the cleanup of a contaminated site without first being sued by the government. This decision increased the incentives for a party to undertake voluntary cleanup, for it secured the ability to recover costs of remediation from other PRPs at the site. However, the decision simultaneously reduced the incentive for early settlement with the government by removing protection against suit by other PRPs for parties who settled with the government for claims at a particular site. Since CERCLA was first passed in 1980, through the addition of the SARA amendments in 1986 and subsequent Supreme Court decisions, there have been evolving tradeoffs between the incentives to voluntarily clean a contaminated site and the incentives for early settlement with the EPA. In this note, I will discuss those changing tradeoffs, and the state of the incentives as they have come to rest after Atlantic Research Corp. Finally, I will recommend that a legislative amendment protecting parties who have settled with the government from contribution claims would best serve to maximize incentives for both early government settlement and voluntary cleanup at contaminated sites.
24112433|The first Scenic Hudson decision by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in 1965 may be described as the grandfather of most of today's environmental litigation. Its order that all relevant environmental factors must be considered in the Federal Power Commission's licensing proceeding was the direct forerunner of the environmental impact statement requirement of NEPA. The grant of standing to numerous environmental groups to challenge controversial agency action opened the doors of the federal judiciary to the environmental movement. This Note suggests that the Second Circuit recently missed a further opportunity to expand the scope of review of agency action when it affirmed the FPC's new decision to license the Cornwall power plant. Confronting arguments that factual determinations by the FPC should be subject to broadened review in light of the important policy questions involved, the court instead applied the traditional substantial evidence test in upholding agency findings. After discussing the merits of the case, the author examines the arguments for and against expanded review and concludes that the narrow ambit of the substantial evidence test is likely to remain controlling in judicial review of agency decisions involving environmental fact-finding.
24113490|Since the 1970s, articles on the public trust doctrineas articulated in judicial opinions, constitutional provisions, and statuteshave been replete in legal literature. Yet, few articles discuss the actual implementation of the doctrine, and none are informed by qualitative research interviews with water managers. This Article explores this missing dimension through an empirical study of the "on the ground" trustees of Wisconsinits water managers. Wisconsin's legal framework is an example of a cutting-edge articulation of the public trust doctrine. Because Wisconsin has been on the forefront of developing the legal doctrine, and its water managers face budgetary constraints and conflicts between public rights and private property rights not unique to the state, this empirical study illustrates for those working in other states the tensions and structures that impede or enhance public trust protections. After exposing the systems that prevent water managers from fully carrying out their trustee duties, this Article provides several modest policy proposals for moving forward in a way that empowers water managers to satisfactorily meet their duties as trustees.
44321161|The Bay-Delta, the largest estuary in the western United States, is home to more than 750 plant and animal species and is home to California's greatest source of water. For more than a decade however, the Bay-Delta has also been home to a battle between agriculturalists, environmentalists, and urban water users. The Bay-Delta's ecosystem health, levee stability, and water supply and quantity is in a state of continual decline, and these interest groups have become entangled in disputes over how to address these problems. In 1994, CALFED, a group of state and federal agencies, was created in an effort to address the daunting problems facing the Bay-Delta. CALFED prepared a Program Environmental Impact Statement/Report (PEIS/R), detailing its proposed program to address what it defined as the four main problems facing the Bay-Delta: water supply instability, poor water quality, declining ecosystem health, and levee instability. Believing that all problem areas needed to be addressed concurrently, CALFED did not consider any alternatives to the program that did not satisfy all four areas. In 2000, before CALFED's program was implemented, a group of interested parties brought suit in district court, claiming that CALFED's PEIS/R was deficient and did not satisfy the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The plaintiffs asserted that under CEQA, not every goal or problem must be addressed in a single PEIS/R. Therefore, plaintiffs claimed that CALFED should have included alternatives to the program that did not address every problem. Specifically, the plaintiffs asserted that CALFED should have considered reducing water exported from the Bay-Delta, as although it would not solve the water supply instability problem, it would reduce environmental impact. Ultimately, the California Supreme Court decided that CALFED's PEIS/R met CEQA's requirements and that the agency was correct when it decided that it did not need to consider alternatives that did not meet each of the four goals. This Note argues that the California Supreme Court was correct in its decision, despite the fact that the decision seemingly goes against CEQA's purpose and rules. The Note will also explain why CEQA's procedural requirements are crucial and must be followed if the statute has a chance to effect substantive change. CEQA's requirement that an agency consider program alternatives that are less environmentally harmful is one way to reach major substantive change, but this Note will explain that this alternatives analysis is dependent on two other procedural requirements. First, the preparation of an EIR and its labeling as a program or project EIR affects the alternatives analysis in that programs and projects require different levels of detail in their discussion of alternatives. Second, how the goal of the EIR is narrowed will similarly affect the alternatives considered.
24111300|A reliable supply of natural resources is essential to a modern society. The importance and finiteness of these resources require that they be consumed at rational rates and for their best purposes. Oil is one of the most vital of these resources. This Comment uses oil as a case study of the impact of tax rules on resource consumption rates, arguing that existing tax rules encourage far too high a rate of consuming limited oil supplies.
24113967|Section 7(a)(1) of the Endangered Species Act (ESA), the duty to conserve provision, has been underutilized as a tool for species protection. In Sierra Club v. Glickrnan, the Fifth Circuit found that the USDA did not meet its 7(a)(1) obligations regarding its subsidies to irrigated agriculture in central Texas. The court found that federal agencies have an "affirmative duty" to "conserve each species listed pursuant to [the ESA]." This Note argues that the court correctly extended the scope of the duty to conserve and properly found that the Club had standing with regard to 7(a)(1).
44321162|Airborne pollutants from electricity generation, such as sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, may travel long distances from their sources and routinely cross state boundaries. It is difficult for individual states to control the harmful health and environmental effects of these emissions, and often they are unable to meet ozone and particulate matter national ambient air quality standards mandated by the Clean Air Act. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) attempted to resolve this interstate pollution problem by promulgating the Clean Air Interstate Rule, which established a cap-and-trade system for sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions originating in many eastern states. However, the District of Columbia Court of Appeals, in its recent decision North Carolina v. EPA, found the rule inconsistent with the Clean Air Act and surprised all interested parties by vacating the rule. In this Note, I first discuss the regulatory history behind CAIR, including previous sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions reductions programs established by Congress, EPA, and a group of northeastern states, respectively. I then explain the relevant aspects of CAIR and summarize why the D.C. Circuit invalidated it. Next, I explore the theory of using market-based approachessuch as cap-and-trade systemsas compared to traditional command-and-control approaches to achieve emissions reductions, focusing on the context of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions. Finally, I recommend design features for the future revision of EPA's rule.
24114135|The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, in Beanal v. Freeport-McMoRan, affirmed the dismissal of a suit brought under the Alien Tort Claims Act (ATCA) by an Indonesian citizen against a U.S.-based transnational corporation for environmental violations in Indonesia. The court found that the allegations of international environmental torts were not cognizable torts under the ATCA, a statute which gives federal district courts jurisdiction over civil actions brought by aliens for torts committed in violation of the law of nations. This Note examines the potential importance of the ATCA in bringing suits against international environmental violations and suggests that under the current state of law, the approach most likely to succeed in such claims is to frame environmental damages as a human rights violation.
44321184|When interstate water disputes come before it, the U.S. Supreme Court can order states to pay large damage awards or to forfeit use of a significant amount of water. The high stakes in these original jurisdiction cases make the Court's use of and deference to Special Masters problematic for states, which need litigation to produce reasonably predictable outcomes so that litigation is as a viable alternative to negotiated agreements. The Court does states a great disservice by handling cases involving interstate water disputes in a seemingly unpredictable and unstructured manner. The Court's deference to the Special Master in Montana v. Wyoming is the latest example of a pattern of judicial abdication in interstate water disputes. This Note presents several specific recommendations, proposes a rule for analyzing exceptions to a Special Master's report, and discusses the potential for instituting a two-person panel of Special Masters that includes an Article III judge. If the Supreme Court is unwilling to make changes to better address states' substantial interests in original jurisdiction cases, future Special Masters should exert their considerable influence to encourage the Court's comprehensive engagement with interstate water disputes.
24112475|The forum in which environmental lawsuits are tried is an element of increasing importance. For a number of reasons environmental attorneys prefer to bring suit in the District Court for the District of Columbia. Government defendants, however, are seeking to have such cases transferred to other forums with significantly increasing frequency. The resulting conflict over venue is the subject of this paper. The author draws extensively from his experience as an attorney for one of the parties to the "Four-Corners" Southwest power plant controversy, contributing valuable insights to the difficult issue of venue transfer. He calls attention to an emerging judicial interpretation of the venue statutes and advises environmental litigants on how to avoid the venue pitfall.
24114046|The twenty-first century is likely to see the stabilization of the human population. However, meeting even the most basic needs of a population at least half again as large as today's implies greater production and consumption of goods and services, increased demand for land, energy, and materials, and intensified pressures on the environment and living resources. A deep challenge, therefore, faces political leaders, institutions, and the law: can this also be a transition to sustainability, in which the people living on Earth over the next half-century meet their needs while nurturing and restoring the planet's life support systems? The symposium's speakers and panels outline the scientific and social envelope of a Sustainability Transition, posing the question of how today's practitioners and legal scholars may facilitate the reconciliation of today's transformative human economy and the economy of nature upon which all life depends.
24115072|Congress enacted the Rivers and Harbors Act in 1899 to ensure free and open navigability across the nation's waterways. Administered by the Corps of Engineers, the Act has not received much attention from legal scholars. In particular, few scholars have analyzed the Act as a means of providing environmental protection. The Ninth Circuit's decision in United States v. Milner, however, suggests that the Rivers and Harbors Act has significant potential to address environmental challenges created by sea level rise. In Milner, the Ninth Circuit ruled that six coastal property owners had violated the Act because they refused to remove structures intended to protect their homes from erosion by rising sea levels. The structures were originally erected lawfully on the homeowners ' property, but once the sea rose to the point where it intersected with the structures, they obstructed navigability of open waters, in violation of the Act. This Note argues that Milner provides a means by which private property owners can be forced to adapt to the inevitable changes of sea level rise. The Rivers and Harbors Act, as implemented in Milner, allows the government to regulate private property in furtherance of environmental protection while withstanding challenges by property owners.
24111299|The virtual irreversibility of the loss of open space makes it a particularly critical area of environmental concern. To inhibit this loss, the public easement restricting development of private land has evolved as a novel and promising variation of an old legal tool. This Comment examines and evaluates the easement as a device to protect open space, especially within California's statutory framework authorizing local government acquisition of easements. Special emphasis is placed on the easement's flexibility as a preservation device. Since conservation of open land is a concern of state and national, as well as local, governments, the Comment analyzes the financial burden of open space easement programs, exploring actual and potential sources of local, state, and federal funding.
24114255|In Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook County u. United States Army Corps of Engineers, the United States Supreme Court ended the ability of the Corps to rely on the Migratory Bird Rule in asserting its jurisdiction over intrastate, non-navigable waters. The Court limited the jurisdiction of the Corps in regulating waters that are not "navigable" in the traditional sense of the word, and lefi unanswered how far the Commerce Clause extends in allowing federal regulation of the environment. The Court's holding illustrates that navigability is poorly suited for determining the appropriate scope of federal regulatory jurisdiction. Instead, linking federal jurisdiction to the environmental value of the resource at issue, through an ecosystem services assessment, would dispense with the current disconnect between environmental protection and "navigability" under the Clean Water Act.
24113728|While conflicts between energy development and environmental protection are rarely subdued, perhaps nowhere does this tension run higher than in the context of public lands. The Third Circuit Court of Appeals faced precisely such a conflict in Minard Run Oil Co. v. U.S. Forest Service, which involved the exercise of privately owned oil and gas rights in the Allegheny National Forest. This case illuminated the problems that arise in determining the boundary of the federal government's authority over private drilling operations on "split estates, " where the federal government owns the surface of the land, but private parties own the underground oil and natural gas reserves. At issue in this case was the interpretation of two federal statutes: the Weeks Act, which governed the acquisition of much of the National Forest System, and the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), which requires the federal government to consider the environmental impacts of certain decisions. This Note argues that the court adopted an unnecessarily narrow reading of the Weeks Act and a similarly constrained view of agency discretion under NEPA, presenting environmental concerns not only for the National Forest System but also for other public lands as well. This Note concludes that the federal government's ability to condition drilling operations on NEPA review is particularly important given the limitations of other federal statutes in curbing the environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing.
24114743|Rapanos v. United States is the third in a series of important cases addressing the extent to which the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers may regulate wetland areas under the Clean Water Act. Although no opinion commanded a majority of the Court, the decision revealed deep divisions among the justices regarding approaches to statutory interpretation. Justice Scalia's text-based approach contrasts sharply with the more traditional techniques applied by Justices Kennedy and Stevens. Justice Scalia's application of textualism, however, serves to constrain the Clean Water Act in a manner that undermines its purpose. The Rapanos decision, therefore, exemplifies the way in which comprehensive environmental laws are particularly susceptible to hamstringing if subjected to a purely textualist interpretive approach.
24115125|Given the high levels of greenhouse gases already in the atmosphere and the likelihood of growing emissions in the future, even aggressive limits on greenhouse gas emissions might ultimately fail to prevent dangerous climate disruptions. To prepare for this risk, some scientists have started to explore techniques that directly influence or control global and regional climatic systems to offset climate change effects. As climate engineering research expands, U.S. environmental law could become an important forum for efforts to control nascent climate engineering technologies. Federal and state agencies should start now to map out regulatory strategies and guidance for potential requests to authorize climate engineering experiments or to control objectionable projects. Climate engineering will also offer an unprecedented test of the scope of federal judicial power and the institutional competence of U.S. courts to review environmental projects designed to have a global impact. Prior climate change tort actions have tested the ability of courts to ascribe responsibility or assign liabilities to individual parties for damages caused by widely dispersed global activities. Climate engineering presents the mirror image of climate change public nuisance actions: rather than affixing responsibility for a share of a global phenomenon, lawsuits against climate engineering projects can pursue a clearly identifiable small number of parties who expressly and intentionally attempt to create global climate effects. To properly decide these disputes, federal courts in particular will need to understand how cornerstone U.S. environmental laws and key doctrines, including political question, standing,
24115043|South Coast Air Quality Management District v. EPA is emblematic of the EPA's failure to put in place air quality standards deemed necessary to protect public health over a decade ago. In a unanimous ruling, the D.C. Circuit rejected the agency's 2004 rule meant to implement those standards because it largely ignored the Clean Air Act's strict regulation of ground level ozone, a pollutant that continues to exact unacceptable tolls on the environment, the economy, and public health. The result was not surprising. The D.C. Circuit had previously vacated a 1997 EPA rule that also employed a discretionary framework in place of the strict scheme called for by the Clean Air Act. On appeal, the Supreme Court disagreed that the exclusive use of the strict regulatory approach was unambiguously mandated by the language of the statute, but affirmed that the EPA's neglect of the scheme was unreasonable. The Court remanded to the agency to produce a sensible rule. Despite the Court's emphasis on the singular importance of the strict approach, the EPA used the opportunity to craft a rule that once again attempted to largely avoid the congressional mandate. In South Coast, the D.C. Circuit predictably rejected this abuse of discretion. The language of the Clean Air Act prevailed, but only after regrettable and unnecessary delay.
44321154|In this Note I argue that although the Ninth Circuit ultimately reached the correct conclusion in Navajo Nation v. United States Forest Servicethat the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 ("RFRA") does not provide any more religious protection for sacred site claims than the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendmentthe case reflects the pressing need for clarification as to how injury or burden should be analyzed under the Act. Despite RFRA's lofty goal of repairing the damage to religious liberty caused by the United States Supreme Court's decision in Employment Division v. Smith, as the Act is purposely ambiguous concerning the meaning to be supplied to all of its critical terms, such as what types of governmental action "substantially burden" the free exercise of religion, Congress simply returned a number of intractable issues to the courts. This lack of formal guidance in RFRA has resulted in pervasive confusion over how the term "substantial burden" should be defined and analyzed, conflict between appellate courts, and ultimately, profound limitation of the statute's success. In advance of possible Supreme Court review of Navajo Nation, this article provides a frame of reference for understanding why interpretation of the term "substantial burden" has generated so much confusion and discord by examining ambiguities in RFRA's operative provisions and tensions in the Supreme Court's free exercise decisions over what constitutes a burden on the free exercise of religion.
24111376|Construction of a reservoir project often has far-reaching impact upon the surrounding natural and human environment. Such projects usually are designed to serve a number of purposes, including flood control, water supply storage, recreation, and water quality. Because of its responsibility for the planning and construction of reservoirs, the Army Corps of Engineers has been involved in some of the most important environmental controversies of the past several years. Some of these controversies might have concluded more beneficially or have been avoided entirely, had those opposing the Corps' plans become active at an earlier stage or had they known more about the Corps' decision-making process. In this article the Oakley reservoir project of the Army Corps of Engineers is studied in detail from its inception in 1939, through significant alterations in design and purposes, to its present status as a matter of legal and political controversy. The historical treatment elucidates the process by which a governmental agency's decisions evolve through interplay with other governmental entities and with private interests. The decision-making process followed by the Corps of Engineers in the planning of reservoir projects is analyzed critically. Special attention is given to the factors hindering adequate consideration of alternatives, to the problems of benefit-cost analysis, and to the grounds for judicial review of Corps planning decisions. The Corps' formulation and evaluation of the Oakley project is found to have been deficient in many respects, producing inaccurate estimates of benefits and costs and failing to satisfy the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act.
24114300|In Nathan Kimmel, Inc. v. DowElanco, the Ninth Circuit expanded the federal preemption power by allowing the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) to preempt a claim for intentional interference with a prospective economic advantage. Kimmel claimed that DowElanco provided fraudulent labeling information to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the agency responsible for approving pesticide labels under FIFRA, which prevented Kimmel from selling a pesticide product. The court held that Kimmel's state tort claim would interfere with the EPA's administration of FIFRA, and was therefore preempted. The ruling enlarges FIFRA's preemptive scope, making it more difficult for plaintiffs to recover from pesticide-related claims.
24112380|As problems of environmental pollution and resource allocation become increasingly international in scope, those concerned with these issues must become more aware of the efforts of other nations to protect their environments. This study of environmental law in the German Democratic Republic may prove useful both in facilitating understanding of the East German administrative structure and in providing a comparative model for criticism of American environmental protection efforts. The Article also offers detailed references to specialized works concerning various aspects of environmental and natural resource administration in the GDR.
24114298|In Carson Harbor Village v. Unocal Corporation the Ninth Circuit held that "disposal" under CERCLA does not encompass passive migration of contaminants. This Note suggests that the decision can be understood in the context of widespread criticism of CERCLA's liability provisions. It proposes that the court attempted to infuse a concept of fairness into the statute that is antithetical to its broad remedial purpose. It claims, finally, that it would have been preferable for the court to hold, as the dissent did, that "disposal" does encompass passive migration.
24114763|Voluntary cleanups are essential to addressing the hundreds of thousands of contaminated sites that still require remediation in the United States, as government agencies lack the resources to conduct these cleanups themselves or to file thousands of lawsuits compelling private party cleanups. Most sites have been contaminated by the acts of more than one potentially responsible party (PRP). For two decades, PRPs voluntarily cleaned up sites assuming they could then seek cleanup cost contribution from other PRPs under CERCLA (the "Superfund" statute). The December 2004 U.S. Supreme Court decision in Cooper Industries, Inc. v. Aviall Services, Inc. caused a sea change in environmental law, upsetting the reliance interests of regulatory agencies and PRPs by holding that a PRP in most situations cannot sue other PRPs for their fair share of cleanup costs under CERCLA 's contribution provision. After Aviall, federal law may no longer play any role in most private cleanup cost disputes. This Article examines the federalism consequences of the Aviall decision. The Article explores whether federal or state law should serve as the primary rule of decision in private cleanup cost disputes, concluding that a uniform federal rule of decision remains superior to the incoherent patchwork quilt of current state law remedies as a tool for facilitating voluntary cleanups, ft further concludes that a private CERCLA cleanup cost remedy should provide a "safety net" assuring the availability of cleanup cost contribution rights to PRPs in every state without broadly preempting potentially available state law remedies.
24113683|Environmental credit markets have been established to offset impacts to wetlands, endangered species habitat, water quality, and the global climate system. As these markets mature, participants are exploring the concept of credit stacking, whereby a conservation project or parcel produces different types of mitigation credits for multiple markets (such as wetland and endangered species credits or water quality and carbon sequestration credits). If these stacked credits are unbundled, they may be sold in different credit markets to offset impacts from different activities. Such transactions raise concerns about additionality, interagency coordination, verification of ecological improvements, monitoring and management, and transparency. This Article examines eight different credit stacking scenarios and the emerging rules that govern the sale of credits. Generally, there is diversity in how different federal and state agencies handle credit stacking, and they have not issued clear rules on when unbundling stacked credits is permissible. The Article closes with considerations that agencies could take into account in developing a credit stacking protocol to avoid double counting and ecological loss. The credit stacking scenario where it may be most appropriate to consider unbundling is when the accounting units are pollutant-specific, such as is the case with water quality and carbon markets.
24113489|Soil is the foundation of life, yet the international community has all but ignored it in conservation efforts and legal reforms. Right under our feet we are losing topsoil at rates that far outpace nature's ability to keep up. Erosion, salinization, desertification, nutrient depletion, contaminationthese and other threats have conspired to take away the land that feeds us. But they have done so largely at our own command. Like most environmental crises, human decisions have played a critical role in the degradation of Earth's soils. To remedy this situationor at least generate change that moves us in the right directionI argue that we need a new global treaty specifically designed to address the soil crisis. After explaining the nature of the threat and its causes, I canvass the social and legal responses that have been launched to address the problem. Through this discussion, we see that the international community has failed to meet the soil crisis with the construction of an adequate legal regime. As an extension of this failure, the international community has also failed to recognize the other problem that comes along with land degradation: cultural erosion. As we convert valuable farmland to urban sprawl and lose fertile spaces to expanding deserts, we also witness the loss of small-scale farming and the communities it supports. I reveal the link between these two crises by emphasizing a common cause: the rise of industrial agriculture. With its emphasis on short-term profit margins, mechanization, product specialization, division of labor and capital, and economies of scale, industrial agriculture profits at the expense of ecology and rural communities. To save our soils and the communities that work them, I argue that a global treaty addressing soils should also address agrarian culture andin the way of responding to both issuesshould implement reforms in support of sustainable farming.
24115008|The parens patriae doctrine provides an alternative route for a state to establish standing when it seeks to protect its quasi-sovereign interests. Parens patriae suits are particularly appropriate for environmental cases where the injury is inflicted on the general population and individuals bringing separate suits cannot obtain the proper relief. This doctrine inherently recognizes a state's entitlement to "special solicitude," a concept articulated by the Supreme Court in Massachusetts v. EPA. This Note argues that tribal governments should also be entitled to special solicitude when seeking to protect their quasi-sovereign interests. This need is particularly pressing in environmental cases, because Native Americans are uniquely vulnerable to environmental issues such as climate change. Like states, tribal governments should also be permitted to bring parens patriae suits against the federal government, because they are often preempted by federal regulation and the only recourse is to sue the relevant federal agency.
24114127|The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit largely upheld an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rule mandating that twenty-two states and the District of Columbia revise their state implementation plans (SIPs) to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions in order to mitigate nonattainment of ozone standards in downwind states. Although ostensibly a major legal victory for the EPA, the decision may in fact be a mixed blessing for the agency. The court's approval of EPA's consideration of emissions reduction costs in formulating the rule, coupled with the court's failure to adequately address the federalism concerns raised by the rule, may ultimately undermine the agency's ability to protect public health and the environment.
24114296|In 2001, the Fourth Circuit addressed the permit shield provision of the Clean Water Act and found it to provide broad-scale protection for polluters. In Piney Run Preservation Association v. County Commissioners of Carroll County, the Fourth Circuit held that facilities with discharge permits are protected from lawsuits even when discharging pollutants not contained within their permits. Under this ruling, permit holders may discharge, without fear of penalty, any disclosed pollutant within the reasonable expectation of the permitting authority. This decision is worrisome because it does not protect the goals of the Clean Water Act and deprives the public of information about what pollutants are in their environment.
24115044|Water supply has long been a pivotal issue in California land use, and is now more critical than ever. With growing strains on the state's water supplies, Californians are faced with the consequences of the state's rapid urbanization and agricultural development and the challenge of ensuring adequate water supply in the long run. In addressing these issues, two of the major questions are how much and in what form the availability of water should direct land use development. The California Supreme Court entered into this complicated debate in its recent decision, Vineyard Area Citizens for Responsible Growth, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cordova, by setting standards for water supply analyses done in environmental impact reports under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). In this Note, I argue that the court's decision in Vineyard will spawn increasing reliance on urban water management plans (UWMPs) in CEQA water supply analyses. And, with some important caveats, increasing reliance on UWMPs should have the concomitant effect of deepening the connection and communication between land use planners, water providers, and developers. However, UWMPs are by no means a panacea. Many additional measures are necessary to ensure sustainable land use that does not outstrip California's limited water supplies, including a policy of mandating curtailment of new development where water supplies are shown to be unavailable or sufficiently uncertain.
24114048|Efforts to arrest biodiversity depletion are hampered by a number of factors beyond low public salience. These include uncertainty as to how to measure "biodiversity" and its loss, and as to the costs and benefits of various responses. Moreover, an ideal response requires widespread multilateral cooperation, which, in the light of diverging national priorities, is difficult to achieve. This paper therefore presents a menu of possible reforms in the relevant legal-institutional framework that could be deployed to temper the rate of biodiversity decline. The strategic variables include, among others, subsidy practices, real property protection, intellectual property laws, trade laws, host nation ownership rights, land use restrictions, and taxes.
24113730|This Note examines the recent Texas Supreme Court case Severance v. Patterson, which held that Texas does not recognize "rolling easements" easements that move with physical shifts of the shoreline. The court limited this holding to "avulsive" weather events, such as hurricanes, allowing easements to move with less perceptible erosion. This meant that plaintiff Severance's house was allowed to stand after Hurricane Rita washed the beachfront inland to surround her house, since the public beach easement did not move with the sand and the surrounding land was thus still privately controlled. The Note first explains how the Texas majority could have found that rolling easements do exist by eschewing the avulsion/erosion distinction. The Note next explores the takings implications of rolling easements, advocating for a different taking test than the one used by the dissent. Finally, the Note explores additional legal mechanisms that can be used to achieve fairness between private and public property owners in the case of rolling easements.
24115030|Brazil's policies affecting its land in the Amazon region have assumed global significance, in part due to the pressing realities of deforestation and climate change. Domestically, the allocation and utilization of Amazonian land has important implications for Brazil's social and political stability, economic development, environmental conservation efforts, and cultural preservation efforts. The area known as the "legal Amazon" for planning purposes comprises more than 57 percent of Brazil's national territory; the manner of settlement and occupation of land in this region is a contentious issue. This Note explores the history of public land settlement in the Brazilian Amazon and the recent debates in Brazil over a federal law that enables about 300,000 current occupants of public land in the legal Amazon to acquire legal title. For perspective, the Note compares the potential consequences of this law to those of a series of retrospective titling laws passed in the United States during the half century leading up to the Homestead Act. The U.S. preemption laws sought to provide the opportunity for squatters on the U.S. public lands to acquire title without competition from moneyed speculators or corporate interests. Yet the U.S. preemption laws engendered severe criticism due to their inability to differentiate between bona fide settlers needing agricultural land to sustain a livelihood, and speculative interests taking advantage of the settlement laws purely for pecuniary gain. This Note demonstrates that a desire for the settlement laws to benefit bona fide settlers over speculators dominated the policy discourse and may have been a key element in the United States' transition from its early, limited preemption laws to a broader set of forward-looking preemption laws and eventually the Homestead Act. Similarly, the question of whether Brazil should embrace continued settlement in the Amazon region by awarding squatters with land ownership must be assessed in light of the policy preference to support land acquisition by poorer squatters, known as posseiros, as opposed to large-scale land speculators or land grabbers, known as grileiros. Some 35 percent of land in the legal Amazon is registered to private owners; yet a significant portion of these lands are presumed to be illegal landholdings of grileiros. The Brazilian government has reviewed thousands of these large land claims and has suspended title for those suspected to have been fraudulently or illegally claimed. Meanwhile, the vast number of small-scale occupations of public land in the legal Amazon by squatters or posseiros has fueled a grassroots movement for land reform and government recognition of the right to acquire title to occupied public land. The continued pressure to limit illegitimate, private claims to the public lands by grileiros raises the question of whether a contemporaneous policy that rewards encroachment on the public lands with the right to ownership will prove counterproductive to Brazil's goals. This Note suggests that in order for Brazil's public land distribution and land reform program to be successful, the law must contain mechanisms that protect the interests of its preferred beneficiaries, the posseiros. So long as ambiguities exist in the public land titling laws affecting the legal Amazon, sophisticated speculators will continue to take control of large areas of Amazonian land, endangering Brazil's goals for land reform, environmental conservation, and other objectives such as the demarcation of indigenous land and the creation of extractive reserves.
24115038|The citizen suit provision is a key component of the 1976 amendments to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, known as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), since it provides individuals with the means to initiate proceedings to protect themselves even when the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) fails to do so. Maine People's Alliance v. Mallinckrodt, Inc. involved a citizen suit against an industrial facility that dumped mercury-laden waste into the Penobscot River over a fifteen-year period. The First Circuit held in favor of Plaintiffs, despite the limited evidence of an "imminent and substantial endangerment. " This is an important decision because it continued the trend set by four previous circuits of broadly interpreting RCRA's citizen suit provision. Under the existing regulatory framework for hazardous pollutants, there are two scenarios in which a citizen may wish to sue a polluter. The first is where the EPA has not initiated a lawsuit, as in Maine People's Alliance, and the second is where the EPA has initiated a lawsuit, but is inadequately protecting the interests of citizens. This Note focuses on the latter scenario and proposes that courts should further strengthen RCRA by embracing the logic of Maine People's Alliance and apply only a minimal burden test when assessing citizens' rights to intervene in an EPA-initiated RCRA enforcement action. This would only require a limited showing that the EPA inadequately represents the citizens ' interests. Just as it is important for citizens to be able to bring suit where environmental harm is not being addressed, it should also be easy to intervene in ongoing RCRA suits.
24113485|The California Bay-Delta is in need of extensive ecological restoration. This article highlights the accomplishments of the Yolo Bypass Wildlife Areaa unique, grassroots project that reconciled potentially competing land uses to restore an important segment of the Pacific Flyway in northern California. The Bay Delta Conservation Plan proposes more expansive ecological restoration, calling into question the continued viability of the multi-use balance struck at the nearly 17,000 acre Wildlife Area. This article distills lessons from the conflict and argues that input from local governments is indispensable for future restoration success.
24114615|The use of conservation easements has risen dramatically over the past twenty years, resulting in the protection of millions of acres of conservation land and historic properties. The land trust communitya diverse collection of thousands of individual land trusts, big and smallhas helped drive this success. Unfortunately, a wave of scandals threatens to jeopardize these accomplishments. A recent series of articles by the Washington Post exposed abuses by the world's largest land trust, The Nature Conservancy (TNC), including the apparent exploitation of tax benefits garnered from donation of conservation easements that involved excessive easement appraisals or land with dubious conservation value. Subsequent investigations by Congress and the Internal Revenue Service revealed additional problems, including insufficient monitoring and enforcement of conservation easements, and sounded calls for broad legislative and regulatory reform. The Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation proposed draconian restrictions on tax deductions for gifts of land that could lead to a sharp reduction in donated conservation easements. In an effort to ameliorate these concerns and avoid federal intervention, the Land Trust Alliance (LTA)the umbrella organization for the nation's land trustslaunched a new accreditation program for individual land trusts. The accreditation program aims to restore the public confidence, assure long-term protection of conservation easements, and deter governmental intrusion. This Comment discusses the concern among some in the land trust community that top-down oversight will drive smaller land trusts out of existence and erode or destroy the grassroots nature of land trusts that has led to much of their success. Nevertheless, a strong accreditation program by LTA is essential to stem current abuses and further erosion of the public trust, and to prevent severe regulatory backlash. As the use of conservation easements becomes more common, and more actors outside the environmental mainstream become involved, institutional protections that were not required in the past may become necessary. To that end, this Comment provides options for refining the accreditation program to help LTA achieve its goals.
24115007|Two recent cases, Vigil v. Leavitt and Latino Issues Forum v. EPA, demonstrate that the Environmental Protection Agency and the courts have failed to mandate the adoption of best available control measures as required by the Clean Air Act. San Joaquin Valley, California, and Phoenix, Arizona, were each designated as serious nonattainment areas for particular matter pollution and, therefore, were each required to adopt best available control measures. The states designed menu of options schemes to provide regulated agricultural actors a flexible list of control choices to choose from. The Environmental Protection Agency and the Ninth Circuit ruled that the menus satisfied the Clean Air Act's statutory requirement. This Note argues that no reasonable interpretation of the word "best" leads to that conclusion. While best available control measures is not defined by the Clean Air Act, the statute, case law, and the Environmental Protection Agency's own internal guidance documents all clearly articulate that best technology-based standards require "maximum" emissions reduction. The menus fail to maximize emissions reductions. As a result, the Environmental Protection Agency and the courts have contravened the intent of the Clean Air Act and have authorized an imprudent new regulatory approach.
24114256|In Bragg v. West Virginia Coal Association, the Fourth Circuit held that the Eleventh Amendment to the U.S. Constitution bars a private citizen from suing in federal court to enjoin a state regulator from issuing surface mining permits in violation of stateadministered regulations approved under the federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA). The decision, which relegates challenges to state regulators by both environmentalists and industry to state courts, represents an instance of woefully bad statutory construction and misapplication of Supreme Court precedent. If its reasoning is widely adopted or extended to other environmental statutes, it could cripple citizens' ability to hold state regulators accountable for their environmental regulatory obligations.
24113686|The environmental review and initiative processes are two key tools used in land use decision making. The environmental review process protects communities from unintended adverse consequences of land use decisions, while the initiative process allows voters to assert direct control over planning decisions when lawmakers have failed to uphold their interests. However, there is a tension between the two processes: the environmental review process deliberately imposes constraints on decision makers enacting laws, while the initiative process is intended to eliminate constraints on voters' ability to directly enact laws. As a result, states have made a trade-off: either land use decisions can be made by initiative but environmental review laws do not apply, or environmental review laws apply to land use decisions but those decisions cannot be made by initiative. This Article contends that both versions of the trade-off are problematic. The first results in a double standard: a land use regulation passed via ballot initiative is entirely exempt from state environmental review laws, even though the exact same regulation, with the exact same potential adverse impacts, would be subject to those laws if passed legislatively. The second form of the trade-off results in voter disenfranchisement: environmental review is preserved, but at the cost of barring voters from using the initiative for land use issues that may be literally in their backyards. Using the contrasting approaches of California and Washington as a lens to focus the analysis, this Article provides a comprehensive analysis of the textual, structural, and policy justifications underlying the trade-off between environmental review and the initiative. The Article challenges the assumptions about the incompatibility of the two processes, and argues that the expertise necessary for effective environmental review and the public participation at the heart of the initiative process are not irreconcilable goals. Modifying each process to accommodate the other not only would better reflect the balancing of interests at the core of land use law, but can also serve to correct underlying weaknesses of each.
24114226|Friends of the Earth v. Environmental Protection Agency explores two important jurisdictional questions that help clarify the Clean Water Act's Judicial Review Provision. The case was brought as a challenge to the Environmental Protection Agency Administrator's approval and establishment of Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs) standards, which are used to help control water pollution levels, for the Anacostia River. The central issue for the District of Columbia Circuit Court was whether appellate courts have original jurisdiction to hear such a case. First, the court held that there is original appellate jurisdiction only for those actions by the EPA Administrator that are specifically enumerated in the CWA's Judicial Review Provision. As a consequence, the court held that federal circuit courts may not directly review the Administrator's acts of establishing or approving TMDLs. This Note argues that the holding is proper because it maintains the plain language interpretation of the statute, promotes judicial economy, and provides uniformity among the circuit courts on this issue. However, this Note concludes that Congress should amend the Judicial Review Provision to provide for direct circuit court review of the EPA Administrator's establishment or approval of TMDLs. This amendment would uphold the goals Congress intended to achieve with the Judicial Review Provision, in addition to upholding the broader policy goals of the CWA and the court system in general.
44321155|In managing the nation's forests, the Forest Service relies on complex scientific information to make decisions about timber harvesting, wildlife habitat, recreational opportunities, and other activities. Courts have struggled to find the proper level of deference owed to the agency in making such decisions, in part because of the difficulties that science poses to the court. Judges are hesitant to overrule decisions based on the perceived scientific expertise of administrative agencies. However, the Forest Service faces constraints in its structure, mission, and culture that tend to bias agency decision making toward resource extraction. In Lands Council v. McNair, an en bane panel of the Ninth Circuit forcefully returns the court to a highly deferential standard of review. This Note argues that this highly deferential standard may encourage the Forest Service to engage in a "science charade," where the agency disguises policy judgments as scientific decisions, in order to avoid both stringent judicial review and political accountability. Such a charade has negative implications for the agency, the courts, the environment, and the public has a whole.
24112396|Recent oil spills in the Santa Barbara Channel, the Gulf of Mexico, San Francisco Bay, and the Hudson River have made the entire country aware of the problem of oil pollution. Laws have been passed, agencies created, and numerous hearings held in a national attempt to halt destructive oil accidents, but the crisis continues as the nation's demand for petroleum accelerates. In this article, Malcolm Baldwin of the Conservation Foundation, attempts to show that environmental problems caused by petroleum and its ultimate scarcity are far more complex than most of us realize. The oil policy of the United States has not reflected the ecological ramifications of oil production and consumption. Furthermore, the governmental decisionmakers do not presently have sufficient information to make sound environmental policies concerning oil. In analyzing several of the most important ecological effects of oil, and the present legal response, the author raises some of the most difficult issues of the future. His recommendations for change represent an important first step in meeting the challenge these issues present.
24114216|In the drought summer of 2001, a dramatic event occurred in the obscure Klamath region of northern California and Southern Oregon: the Bureau of Reclamation closed the headgates of the Klamath Project, halting irrigation deliveries in order to protect endangered fish. For the first time, the Endangered Species Act had caused a large-scale curtailment of water delivery from a federal project. Several months later, a National Academy of Sciences/National Research Council committee issued a report critical of the scientific basis for the decision to cut off water deliveries, fueling controversy in the already deeply polarized region. The Klamath crisis and its continuing aftermath provide an important case study of the key challenges facing many communities in the arid West: how to move beyond a long history of inefficient irrigation, remedy the ecosystem degradation that system has produced, and make the transition from a colonial commodity-production economy to a modern, globally integrated one. The Klamath is a classic degraded, unsustainable basin, exhibiting all the environmental and economic woes of the "new" West. It is also a place where the ESA, which has been widely regarded as an important tool for forcing states and local populations to take into account new social realities, has been aggressively applied. This article explores the choices that led to the Klamath crisis, the crisis itself, and its aftermath. Although there are many ways to tell the Klamath story, the narrative we find most compelling is one of a clash of cultures that must be resolved as the arid West confronts its future. Farmers, environmentalists, and Indians are all fighting to protect their ideal of the landscape and their relationship to it. A similar culture war is played out within the federal government, as the Bureau of Reclamation and the wildlife agencies fight for supremacy in the Basin. We draw several lessons from the Klamath experience, all of which we believe apply more broadly. First, the pressing question, one that is complex from both a social and a scientific perspective, is how to manage the transition to a sustainable landscape in a fair and equitable manner. The deep cultural divide between groups affected by the use of water and lands in the region, and the pervasive uncertainties about the legal rights and responsibilities of those groups, have made the transition extremely difficult. Second, overemphasis on science as the arbiter of the legal, and indirectly of the cultural, disputes has deepened the cultural divide. Science plays a major role in the resolution of environmental disputes; it is often seen as the only potential unifying standard among parties with very different world views. Unfortunately, because of data gaps, uncertainties, and disagreement about values rather than facts, science frequently does not eliminate disagreement among opposing parties. In those circumstances, the intense battle for the high scientific ground that typically results is ultimately counter-productive, diverting attention from the difficult social choices that must be made. Third, solving conflicts with deep cultural implications over water (or other limited resources) is difficult and painful, so delay and avoidance have been common tactics. The Klamath experience teaches us that delay only serves to make the conflicts sharper, and therefore more difficult to resolve, when they can no longer be avoided. That lesson goes for irrigators as well as the government agencies. Finally, a more comprehensive ecosystem-based approach than is currently available is needed to encourage and support the transition to sustainability. State and federal agencies must work toward common solutions, and resource use issues (such as water allocation) must not be treated as separable from pollution issues (such as water quality control). The ESA can catalyze, but ultimately cannot force, a move to a more comprehensive approach. We offer the process that led to the current Florida Everglades restoration experiment as one possible model for that transition.
24114631|The Supreme Court held in Lingle v. Chevron U.S.A. Inc. that challenges to the validity of land use regulations for failing to advance governmental interests must be brought under the Due Process Clause, rather than the Takings Clause, and must be evaluated under a deferential standard. This Article analyzes and evaluates the probable course of such judicial review, and concludes that federal courts will resist due process review of land use decisions for good reasons but not always with an adequate doctrinal explanation. However, state courts can use due process review to provide state level supervision of local land use decisions in the absence of other legislative or administrative checks on local discretion. Such judicial review should focus on decisions reflecting distortions in the local political process.
24113970|As natural resources become scarcer, conflicts often arise between Indian treaty rights and state conservation management policies. The Supreme Court resolved one such conflict in Minnesota v. Mille Lacs Band of Chippewa Indians, where the Court upheld treaty rights to hunt and fish to the extent allowed by a "conservation necessity" standard. This Note argues that federal agencies, not the judiciary, should be more active in enabling cooperative co-management of natural resources by states and Indian governments. Increased federal involvement, while potentially intrusive into Indian and state autonomy, mitigates the need for federal courts to serve as micromanaging "fish masters", and decreases the danger that the courts will create ad hoc conservation policies.
24114281|Hardrock mining has caused significant harm to the environment, particularly in the West. Mining laws enacted in the 19th Century sought to encourage mineral production and the transfer of mineral lands to private interests and were largely unconcerned with environmental protection. Federal regulation of hardrock mining, although increasingly effective in recent decades in mitigating the environmental effects of mining, remains heavily influenced by these laws and unable to fully prevent degradation of western watersheds. Federal land managers often have resorted to their authorities under CERCLA to recover response costs or compel cleanup at contaminated mining sites nation-wide. Mining companies have, in turn, sought contribution from the United States arguing that federal ownership of lands subject to hardrock mining, and federal regulation of hardrock mining sites, make it a responsible party and liable for clean-up. Courts have, in the main, rejected these arguments, looking to the history of hardrock mining and comparing the broad rights and interests granted to mining companies with the more circumscribed rights retained by the United States. CERCLA litigation, however, is expensive, retrospective, and fruitless at many "orphaned" sites where viable corporate entities no longer can be found. Statutory and regulatory reforms to the regulation of hardrock mining are necessary to more effectively protect public health and the environment.
24111319|Environmental impact statements often cover only small fragments of federal activity and are frequently filed after the important policy alternatives have been foreclosed. In this Comment, the author suggests that narrowly focused, post hoc analysis in impact statements is inconsistent with the purposes of NEPA and was not intended by Congress. Case analysis indicates how judicial decisions encouraged the present state of affairs by appearing uniformly to require highly detailed impact statements and by failing to police impact statement procedures vigorously with respect to timing and project definition. The author examines some of the problems that will arise if more policy-level impact statements are filedin particular the precedential effect of policy-level statements and the effects of limitations on agency authority.
24113488|This Article considers three fairness issues relating to a cap-and-trade system: fairness to industry, fairness to communities disproportionately impacted by pollution, and fairness to low-income energy consumers. First, assuming any compensation of industry is warranted, free allowances would overcompensate firms for the cost of achieving emission reductions; industry should not receive effective ownership of the atmosphere at the public's expense. Second, environmental justice advocates argue that cap-and-trade systems generate pollution hot spots and encourage dirtier plants to continue operating to the detriment of certain disadvantaged communities. However, cap and trade has no intrinsic tendency to produce increased emissions in disadvantaged communities. Designers of cap-and-trade systems nevertheless should be alert to possible hot spots, particularly in low-income and minority communities. If hot spots are expected or emerge during the operation of the program, responses could include creating geographic grading zones, imposing ceilings on emissions in addition to the cap-and-trade scheme, or prohibiting certain sources from purchasing allowances. Third, any regulation of emissions raises costs, which has a disproportionate impact on low-income consumers. This effect can be greatly ameliorated through adroit use of revenue from emissions allowance auctions to offset the additional burden on low-income consumers from increased energy costs. The bottom line is that fairness issues are not a deal-breaker for cap and trade, but they do deserve thoughtful consideration in designing a system.
24115009|In Casitas Municipal Water District v. United States, the Federal Circuit again grappled with the difficult question of how to analyze Fifth Amendment just compensation claims arising out of endangered species protections. Currently, the doctrine distinguishes between physical and regulatory takings, with numerous per se tests created to classify especially problematic situations. However, by simply focusing on the classification of particular government actions while ignoring their consequences, the jurisprudence continues to move away from the underlying concerns of fairness that motivate the Fifth Amendment, leaving the government, private landowners, and the courts with remarkably little guidance in specific cases. I argue that the nexus and rough proportionality tests articulated by the Supreme Court in Nollan v. California Coastal Commission and Dolan v. City of Tigard provide a better means of achieving fair results and should be extended from the context of development exactions to endangered species takings claims. Applied to the fish ladder construction mandated to protect the West Coast steelhead trout in Casitas, the Court's exaction tests would redirect the focus in takings cases to the fairness of the government action, while also providing a strong incentive for cooperation between the government and private parties at the initial permitting stage. These benefits increase the transparency of judicial decisions and reduce the difficulty in classifying hard cases concerning endangered species protections.
24114211|This article explores the consistency of Antiquities Act authority with democratic values in the context of President William Clinton's designation or expansion of twenty-two national monuments. The article concludes that, contrary to the views of some of the Act's detractors, neither the Antiquities Act, nor the manner in which President Clinton exercised its authority, can accurately be described as undemocratic. The Act provides for resource-protective decisions to be made by the elected leader of the American people, subject to further debate and disposition by the people's elected representatives in Congress. Although the chief executive's ability to act quickly in emergency situations to protect resources on the public lands does not by itself provide a satisfying justification for his broad powers under the Act, his distinction as the one leader elected by all the American people places him in a unique position to exercise long-term and broadscale judgments regarding the national and historical significance of public lands.
24114128|Nonpoint source pollution threatens to erase much of the progress achieved by the Clean Water Act (CWA) in restoring the nation's water resources. The most promising and controversial tool the CWA offers to address this growing problem is contained in the Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) provisions of Section 303(d). This Note summarizes EPA's final rule implementing Section 303(d) and the TMDL program, places Section 303(d) in the context of other regulatory approaches to pollution abatement, and discusses several challenges the program faces.
24112383|Environmentalists have found the National Environmental Policy Act to be an effective litigation tool in their efforts to prevent environmental degradation, and the decision-making processes of nearly all federal agencies have been afftectedin form if not in substanceby NEPA. Ironically, the only agency which has escaped NEPA's procedural clutches is the institution charged with implementing the nation's major environmental improvement programsthe Environmental Protection Agency. With increasing frequency but with universal futility, industry has cited the agency's noncompliance with NEPA in challenging EPA's Clean Air Act programs. All courts which have considered the issue have agreed with EPA and held the Clean Air Act exempt from NEPA. Thus, EPA has managed to avoid the institutional headaches which NEPA has caused other agencies. But while the Clean Air Act has accordingly been immunized from this potential source of industry challenge, the question must be asked, "At what cost?" In this article, the author examines the policy reasons for and against such an exemption.
44321178|In this Note, I argue for expanding the principles behind a recent D.C. Circuit decision into a common law ''Sunshine Rule" that would require disclosure of political influences in agency decisions. The Note proceeds in three parts. First, I review the D. C. Circuit's opinion and note the principles behind it. Next, I assess the potential sources of political influence on agency decisions. Finally, I conclude that a Sunshine Rule would help curb improper intragovernmental political influence in agency decisions, and that the judiciary is in the best position to establish it.
24111379|No single piece of legislation has had as great an impact on environmental improvement as the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. Requiring administrative agencies to weigh the environmental consequences of major federal actions has begun to give environmental values a secure footing in their competition with more traditional, development-oriented factors. This Note analyzes a recent decision by the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals that promises to accelerate this movement. In holding that final agency decisions could be reviewed on the merits, the court insured that adverse environmental effects disclosed by impact studies will be considered on an equal basis with economic and technical benefits in reaching final decisions to initiate specific government projects. The opinion also implies that agencies must clearly state their reasons for such decisions, thereby providing public interest groups and courts a more sound basis for comment and review. Since substantive review is an uncharted area, the author concludes by suggesting three criteria compliance with the section 101 standards, agency objectivity, accuracy of cost-benefit analysisthat may be examined by courts in evaluating agency decisions on the merits.
24114225|The inadequacies of the federal and state hazardous waste cleanup statutes are almost as renowned as the high-profile incidents of pollution that spurred those laws' creation. Fireman's Fund v. City of Lodi gave the Ninth Circuit the chance to review a community's attempt to address those deficiencies. In that case, when its sole source of drinking water was contaminated, the City of Lodi supplemented federal and state law with a town ordinance that allowed more stringent cleanup. The plaintiff insurance companies, who were the target of the ordinance, challenged the ordinance on preemption grounds. Although the Ninth Circuit acknowledged municipalities' police powers to protect their community by holding that federal and state laws do not preempt the field, it limited that holding by determining that local enactments that enforce a more stringent cleanup standard are invalid because they conflict with the existing regulations' goals. This Note asserts three arguments suggesting that the Ninth Circuit's conflict preemption holding was erroneous: first, the ruling is inconsistent with CERCLA; second, it violates Supreme Court precedent; and third, it is contrary to the court's own rationale. The Note concludes that the Fireman's Fund ruling contravenes Congress's intent to allow lower levels of government to improve upon existing regulations. Instead, the decision entrenches the status quo by restricting municipalities' ability to protect their residents' health and safety; under Fireman's Fund, local legislation can only require polluters to clean up contamination to levels at or below those required by federal and state law, which are publicly recognized as inadequate.
24111286|The arid Southwest is experiencing tremendous population growth and economic development. An examination of population and density statistics lends itself to the superficial conclusion that this area can sustain many times the development it has already undergone. This paper explores the present and future supply and demand of water resources in order to determine whether water supply will set an upper limit on this growth. The paper sets forth the current law governing water rights in relation to its effect on water consumption and growth patterns. It focuses on the prospects for maintaining consumption and the present growth rates by increasing the water supply, or, in the alternative, by altering the current water rights system to prevent the exhaustion of water resources, putting a brake on increasing consumption and restoring equilibrium between supply and demand.
44321152|States have relied upon interstate compacts to solve issues crossing jurisdictional lines since the early years of the republic. The interpretation of one such agreement, written in 1905 to resolve a fishing dispute between Delaware and New Jersey, was presented to the Supreme Court in New Jersey v. Delaware. Deciding a case with significant energy implications for the Mid-Atlantic region, the Court held that the 1905 Compact did not give New Jersey authority to build a liquid natural gas terminal on its shore of the Delaware River without permission from Delaware. This case highlights the difficulties in relying on a static document to solve complex interstate disputes. Because litigation is often ill-suited to resolve these controversies, restructuring interstate compacts to allow for greater flexibility would allow signatory states to adapt to future developments without an expensive and time consuming original jurisdiction lawsuit before the Supreme Court.
24114597|Climate change presents a choice for public policy: mitigate our contribution to it or attempt to adapt to a changing world. In its most radical form, adaptation accepts as a given fundamental changes to our environment caused by a warming climate and consequently demands similarly fundamental adaptations in our ways of life. Those adaptations could entail widespread and severe environmental impacts, complementing and enhancing the primary environmental consequences of climate change. While environmental law has, if haltingly, moderated our environmental impacts in the recent past, this Article suggests that we should not assume that its successes will be repeated in a warmer world. Climate change threatens to exacerbate some of the problems of capacity that have limited environmental law, particularly the inability to plan comprehensively to minimize environmental effects. Climate change may also undermine the public support that has been integral to the creation and sustenance of environmental law by reorienting human relationships with the natural world. The environmental changes caused by a warming climate may convert "the environment" from an endowment to be protected to a hostile and unpredictable force to be controlled and from which we demand protection. Although pessimistic about the prospects for environmental protection in a world of unchecked climate change, the Article concludes with some optimism about our ability to avoid the worst of adaptation's consequences through a policy of climate change mitigation.
24112343|Compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act's (NEPA) substantive and procedural requirements has been almost nonexistent in federal policy-level decisionmaking. In this Perspective, the author examines instances of policymaking, including the 1973-74 winter fuel shortage and the Prototype Oil Shale Leasing Program, where the requirements of NEPA were disregarded. The author then considers reasons for the agencies' failure to comply with NEPA and concludes with suggestions for changes both within and outside the agencies that would lead to NEPA compliance in federal policy-level decisionmaking.
24114275|This Comment explores the concept of the "wildlife corridor" as a means of protecting biological diversity in California. The works of prominent conservation biologists are described, along with the efforts of Southern California conservationists to preserve biodiversity in the Whittier-Puente-Chino Hills, by connecting large swaths of open space with corridors through which various species can migrate. The Comment poses that the scientific community accepts the veracity of wildlife corridors, but that conservationists, despite having various legal means of protecting open space at their disposal, are still at a disadvantage when it comes to protecting wildlife species. The Comment further suggests that the conservation of biological diversity is a policy goal under the California Environmental Quality Act. It then proposes that an amendment to the CEQA Guidelines mandating consideration of impacts to wildlife corridors, defining those impacts, and suggesting mitigation measures is legally justified to meet this policy goal. Finally, the Comment proposes exact language (reviewed by leading biologists in the field) for such an amendment, and demonstrates how that amendment would benefit the Whittier-Puente-Chino Hills. Let's start indoors. Let's start by imagining a fine Persian carpet and a hunting knife. The carpet is twelve feet by eighteen, say. That gives us 216 square feet of continuous woven material. Is the knife razor-sharp? If not, we hone it. We set about cutting the carpet into thirty-six equal pieces, each one a rectangle, two feet by three. Never mind the hardwood floor. The severing fibers release small tweaky noises, like the muted yelps of outraged Persian weavers. Never mind the weavers. When we're finished cutting, we measure the individual pieces, total them upand find that, lo, there's still nearly 216 square feet of recognizably carpetlike stuff. But what does it amount to? Have we got thirty-six nice Persian throw rugs? No. All we're left with is three dozen ragged fragments, each one worthless and commencing to come apart. Now take the same logic outdoors...
24114750|For almost ninety years Teck Cominco Metals, Ltd., a Canadian company, discharged hazardous substances into a stretch of the Columbia River located in Canada which then migrated downstream and caused environmental harm in northern Washington State. Considering a Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) claim brought against the company, the federal district court found the case required an extraterritorial application of CERCLA; that to have held it involved a domestic application of the statute would have required dependence on a "legal fiction." The Ninth Circuit affirmed the decision, but reversed the reasoning. It held the facts only triggered a domestic application of the remedial statute. There was nothing technically erroneous in the Ninth Circuit's reasoning. What the court failed to address, however, was the logical gap left by a notoriously poorly worded statute. CERCLA 's ambiguities have long frustrated practitioners and judges, and one can imagine few other statutes that render the identity of the defendant and the location of his conduct completely irrelevant for purposes of establishing jurisdiction. Characterizing the case as domestic side-stepped its actual effect. Furthermore, the Ninth Circuit's reasoning for this disjuncture relied upon the fact that, as a remedial statute, CERCLA is unconcerned with party behavior. However, this reasoning is contradicted by the fact that the personal jurisdiction underlying the case involved a test that required intentional action by the defendant. In addition to adhering more closely to the ordinary meaning of "extraterritoriality," had the Ninth Circuit adopted the district court's reasoning it would have resulted in valuable case law clarifying the presumption against extraterritorial applications of U.S. law and its exceptions. Both analyses were permissible under the ambiguously worded statute, and this author believes that policy considerations should have tipped the balance in favor of finding an extraterritorial rather than domestic application of CERCLA. Such an application might have proven complementary, rather than detrimental, to notions of comity, ideas of reciprocity, and other international dispute mechanisms.
24115042|The Supreme Court's split decision in Rapanos v. United States left the lower courts with the question of whether to apply the plurality's restrictive test for determining which waters are protected under the Clean Water Act (CWA), or whether to use Justice Kennedy's more flexible, policy-based test. For those courts intending to follow Kennedy's concurrence, the parameters of his "significant nexus" test were far from explicit. In Baykeeper v. Cargill Salt Division the Ninth Circuit relinquished its first opportunity to apply the significant nexus test expansively in order to keep the CWA potent as a tool for environmental protection. The best remaining approach for litigants seeking to establish CWA coverage of non-navigable-in-fact waters that are not wetlands is to proceed under the theory that such waters are tributaries with a significant nexus to navigable waterways, pressing this language into service in the broadest array of hydrological scenarios possible.
24113961|The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held the Environmental Protection Agency in violation of the long-defunct nondelegation doctrine for failing to limit its own discretion under Section 109 of the Clean Air Actwithout striking down the Act itself. The court thus transferred the requirement of limited delegation from Congress to regulatory agencies, effectively creating an entirely new agency limitation that has vast and long-lasting implications for administrative law and environmental protection. This new limitation purports to extend the traditional nondelegation doctrine, but it lacks the constitutional and philosophical foundations of the earlier principle, and vests substantial, unrestrained power in the judiciary.
24115002|In New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection v. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Third Circuit found that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is not required under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to examine the environmental impact of possible terrorist attacks on a nuclear power facility before renewing the facility's license. This Note argues that, contrary to the Third Circuit's holding, NEPA requires an Environmental Impact Statement because the relationship between a terrorist attack and the relicensing of a power plant is not too attenuated. This Note will first provide background on nuclear power facilities and terrorism concerns. Next, this Note will provide an overview of NEPA and a circuit split over whether the Nuclear Regulatory Commission must consider the environmental impact of a possible terrorist attack against nuclear facilities. Finally, this Note will argue that NEPA does, in fact, require consideration of the environmental impact of such an attack. Contrary to the Third Circuit's decision, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission maintains some control over the extent of the environmental impact of a terrorist attack and is not cleared of responsibility to consider environmental impacts in its licensing decisions simply because a terrorist attack against a nuclear facility is a third-party criminal act.
24113727|Montana 's famously rugged rivers provide for a variety of recreational opportunities on the state's waterways. In addition, many of Montana's rivers are highly conducive to hydroelectric power generation. Recently, certain parties challenged a power company's ownership of several riverbeds supporting the company's hydroelectric facilities. This question of streambed ownership cast a shadow upon the future use of Montana's waterways for power generation, as well as the public's right to access Montana's streambeds for recreational use. In PPL Montana v. Montana, the United States Supreme Court clarified its approach to determining navigability for purposes of ascertaining riverbed title. The decision drew attention to the disparate public stream access laws of various western states, and will likely require certain states to reconsider their existing laws. This Note suggests that western states should develop stream access laws that carefully balance the competing interests of public recreationists and private riparian landowners. While this Note suggests that these western states should liberalize their stream access laws regardless of title to the land, such states must also continue to protect their natural resources and landowners ' property rights through various mechanisms.
24114232|Current ocean governance in the United States is in part a product of a 1969 U.S. congressional commission report on the status of the nation's oceans and how best to manage marine resources. The Pew Oceans Commission recently issued a report addressing the state of our nation's marine resources and recommended major changes in ocean governance at the federal level. Recommendations include the creation of a new independent ocean agency that would coordinate and oversee all ocean agencies and activities through the creation of regional ocean ecosystem councils focused on the goal of marine conservation. The Pew Commission also recommends specific changes in the current regional fishery management scheme. Large scale changes in governance structure would create a more coordinated and cohesive ocean management system. Smaller scale changes in fishery management would result in stripping much of the power away from regional fishery management councils, but could result in a more opaque system that would lack the necessary support of the fishing community. In spite of these potential problems, the Pew Commission report provides a comprehensive evaluation of the ocean's living resources and valuable recommendations that should be considered when determining how best to conserve and protect our fisheries and other ocean resources.
24111339|Prosecution of polluters by officials of the various levels of government has not kept pace with the increasingly felt need for environmental protection. This Perspective presents reflections of a former prosecutor who represented the people of Illinois in the beginning stages of enforcing the new environmental laws of that State through government-sponsored litigation. The author does not attempt an exhaustive analysis of the various subjects discussed, rather he presents his views of the general principles and policies involved and indicates the concerns that prosecutors should bear in mind.
24114745|Divergent interpretations of "daily" in the context of the Clean Water Act's "total maximum daily load" program have created a circuit split between the D.C. Circuit and the Second Circuit. In 2006, the D.C. Circuit decided in Friends of the Earth v. EPA that "daily" means "every day." Several years earlier the Second Circuit in NRDC v. Muszynski had decided "daily" could mean "seasonally" or "annually." The D.C. Circuit's opinion should ultimately govern because the holding applies Chevron properly and promotes the policy goals of the Clean Water Act. The circuit split and EPA's subsequent revision of its own interpretation of "daily" present questions about the future of this potentially far-reaching and controversial Clean Water Act regulatory program. EPA's recent reinterpretation of "daily" craftily incorporates the Friends of the Earth ruling while maintaining the flexible regulatory structure that allows for less rigorous environmental standards. If challenged, the agency's recent interpretation of "daily" will likely be given deference under Chevron. In light of EPA's actions, policymakers must now consider reforming the TMDL program to better apply pollution standards equitably to major polluters, including the agriculture industrythe nation's largest water polluter.
24113969|The Central and Southern Florida Project Comprehensive Review Study lays the blueprints for a massive ecological restoration of the Florida Everglades. The restoration's ambitious scope required the planning agencies to incorporate recent technological and managerial innovations into the plan. This Note summarizes those innovations and discusses the challenges and advantages that new technology and management styles will provide for Everglades restoration.
24113620|Led by Michael Pollan, the fast-growing food movement has changed the way many Americans think about what they eat. Increasingly, the movement is focusing on issues of national policy, which makes sense in such a highly regulated field. Yet, to date, legal scholarship has done little to explore how the goals of this nascent movement relate to the current system of food regulation in the United States. This Article begins to fill that void. The Article focuses on one aspect of the greater food movement: the "eat-food movement, " which encourages the consumption of "real, " unprocessed food. Upon juxtaposing the philosophy of the eat-food movement with the structure and mission of FDA and USDA, the Article concludes that certain types of command-and-control regulation pose unique threats to the movement's integrity. On the other hand, disclosure-based regulation, used in combination with twenty-first century information and communication technologies, holds particular promise for this movement. The idea that the relative merits of different types of regulation should be assessed in light of a given movement's specific goals and a given agency's specific structure has implications for administrative law more broadly.
24113972|The Mining Law of 1872 has traditionally been interpreted as granting miners a near-carte blanche right to develop federal lands for mining. In fact, however, the Mining Law contains several important provisions that, taken together, impose serious limitations on the ability of modern miners to operate on federal lands. The Departments of Interior and Agriculture recently recognized these limitations and applied them to the Crown Jewel mine proposal in Washington statea move that stands to dramatically alter the status of modern mining. This Note provides a brief overview of the Mining Law, an analysis of the Crown Jewel decision, and an explanation of its ramifications.
24114132|Defining the "property interest" at stake in takings claims presents an ongoing challenge for the courts. Judicial outcomes may vary depending on whether a court adopts an expansive or fragmented view of the plaintiff's holdings. In Tahoe-Sierra, the Ninth Circuit soundly rejected the abstract splintering of property interests known as "conceptual severance." The court refused to allow the plaintiffs to characterize their fee parcels as limited "slices in time," thwarting their efforts to prove that a 32-month development moratorium had destroyed "all economically beneficial or productive use" of their land. This Note explores why the court's rejection of conceptual severance makes well-grounded contributions to takings law and public policy. It also sets forth rationale for why temporary development moratoriums should not be equated with the "temporary takings" found deserving of compensation by the Supreme Court in First English.
24111282|The law of public nuisance as a tort is increasingly being used in environmental litigation. In this Article the authors review the position of the American Law Institute with respect to the tort of public nuisance as it is represented in the Tentative Drafts leading to the Restatement (Second) of Torts. The development of the American Law Institute's position is analyzed by considering the various elements of public nuisance actions. The case law is evaluated to identify the trends that the Restatement (Second) emphasizes and to expose some weaknesses in the conclusions reached by the drafters. Finally, the use of public nuisance theories in various types of environmental litigation such as water, air and noise pollution is scrutinized and those areas identified where public nuisance law may most appropriately be used. In the last three years the American Law Institute (ALI), in its Restatement (Second) of Torts, has, for the first time, addressed itself to the tort of public nuisance.1 Public nuisance has long been a quagmire
24114749|In Central Delta Water Agency v. Bureau of Reclamation, the Ninth Circuit implicitly applied a narrowly-focused finality standard that hindered interested parties' access to judicial review in the policing of environmental laws. California Delta farmers sought an injunction against a water allocation plan because they feared that the Federal Bureau of Reclamation (Bureau) would reserve water for instream uses to maintain local fisheries at the expense of their water supply. To support their contentions, the farmers provided hydrological models demonstrating that a drought would likely challenge the Bureau's ability to meet both agricultural and instream uses of water under its current plan. The court held that the evidence provided by the plaintiffs was too speculative to prove that the farmers faced imminent injury. The Ninth Circuit implicitly premised its denial on the lack of finality of Bureau's current water distribution plan. In doing so, the Ninth Circuit accorded substantial deference to the Bureau's authority to revise its current water distribution plan as circumstances demanded. This barrier to judicial review not only frustrates attempts of interested parties to encourage the Bureau to form an emergency water allocation plan for shortages in the California Delta, but it also frustrates California's interests in adjudicating potential public trust violations. Most striking, it can prevent judicial review of the Bureau's actions until an environmental harm is unavoidable. Such an ex post standard frustrates the goals of environmental law. If the court could check the Bureau's decisions when it becomes apparent that the Bureau's plans are essentially final, the court could encourage the Bureau to enact better emergency water distribution plans before the harm is unavoidable. In contrast to the narrowly-focused finality standard implicitly applied by the Ninth Circuit, ripeness inquiries are broader in scope and consider environmental hardships resulting from the failure to grant review. Such an analysis provides a more comprehensive model that would address the potential harms faced by both the farmers and the fish if the Bureau's water distribution plan fails in an emergency.
24115006|Although conservation groups and fishing industries alike have relied on salmon hatcheries to slow the dramatic decline in salmon and steelhead species since the nineteenth century, the proper place of hatchery-raised salmon under the Endangered Species Act remains uncertain. When the hatchery and wild fish intermix, genetic and behavioral differences between the two groups can harm wild fish populations, the precise group the Endangered Species Act is intended to protect. In 2009, the Ninth Circuit upheld a hatchery listing policy that groups hatchery and wild fish and allows an abundance of hatchery fish to effectively prevent wild populations from receiving needed Endangered Species Act protection. Because of ample scientific evidence indicating that hatchery and wild fish should be placed in separate Conservation Units, changing the way that current classification policies are applied to salmon and steelhead species would allow the National Marine Fisheries Service and the Fish and Wildlife Service to formulate a hatchery listing policy that is more closely in line with the goals of the Endangered Species Act.
24112698|Nearly every major economic or social problem today, whether national or international, can be shown to have a causal link with the unprecedented increase in human numbers which has gone unchecked since the Industrial Revolution. Increasing awareness of the implications of this uncontrolled growth, as well as dissatisfaction with present overcrowding, has raised the possibility of governmental regulation in family size in the future. This Comment examines the arguments in favor of such regulation and analyzes possible conflicts with presently existing constitutional restrictions of government power.
24114306|This Comment evaluates a set of conditions enacted by the United States Congress in a 2002 appropriations act to mitigate the harmful impacts of U.S.-sponsored aerial pesticide spraying of coca plants in Colombia. It finds that the conditions are somewhat novel in that they explicitly apply U.S. environmental law to joint U.S.-Colombian activities taking place in Colombia. The State Department's compliance with Congress's conditions, however, is the subject of criticism. Yet, this Comment finds that the adequacy of this compliance is unlikely to be subject to judicial review. For this reason, lack of an explicit enforcement mechanism in the statute greatly weakens its potential to mitigate the human health, environmental, and human rights impacts of the spraying program.
24115078|While the term "precautionary principle" is much used, its status, its applicability, and even its definition are not clear. The International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea has applied the precautionary principle in environmental cases. The World Trade Organization has refused to apply the principle, but, in dicta, has suggested that it should be applied in environmental cases. The International Court of Justice has traditionally been reticent on the issue. However, in its recent Pulp Mills decision, the court strongly limited, if not eviscerated, the principle. The court did not allow the precautionary principle to reverse the burden of proof or even to affect the standards of proof.
24114126|The Environmental Protection Agency has increasingly used overfiling as a tool to ensure that state agencies enforce environmental laws adequately. In Harmon Industries, Inc. v. Browner, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals held overfiling under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act to be an invalid practice. The court rested its decision on two alternative grounds, both specific to the statutory language of RCRA. While this decision significantly limits EPA's enforcement authority under the RCRA, it should not be extended to invalidate EPA's overfiling ability under the Clean Air Act or the Clean Water Act.
24114052|Decisionmakers disregard scientific findings regarding environmental conditions, despite recommendations of the 1992 "Earth Summit" in Agenda 21 that science should provide a foundation for sustainable development. Although environmental degradation trends continue to exacerbate, decisionmakers address only selected issues. This Article examines an analytic paradigm for evaluating when decisionmakers are ready to address a problem and describes the catalytic role that scientific information can serve in prompting remedial action. Unless systematic procedures require evaluation of environmental scientific findings in the normal course of decisionmaking, science will continue to be ignored. One hallmark of Environmental Law has been to fashion such procedures, as illustrated by integrative systems developed in international environmental law institutions, environmental impact assessment processes, licensing procedures for nuclear electrical generating facilities, and corporate environmental management.
24114605|The Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA) requires that facilities disclose routine emissions of chemicals listed on the Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). EPA may add a chemical to the TRI if the chemical meets one of three listing criteria, which all focus on the "adverse effects" the chemical causes. EPA has long maintained that it can list chemicals whose adverse effects are felt indirectly, such as by helping to form another chemical that has adverse effects. In American Chemistry Council v. Johnson, the D.C. Circuit held that EPA had no such authority. Under its holding, a chemical can only be listed if it causes harm through direct exposure. This holding, however, is of questionable validity. The court reached this result by reading a "toxicity" requirement into the listing criteria and by refusing to honor either the statutory definition or EPA's definition of "toxicity." Moreover, the court's singular focus on exposure is too simplistic given the myriad ways manufactured chemicals adversely affect human health and the environment. Indeed, the court's holding in theory would require that EPA remove chemicals from the TRI that fit traditional notions of "toxicity," many of which Congress placed on the list when it wrote the statute.
24113926|Farms are one of the last uncharted frontiers of environmental regulation in the United States. Despite the substantial environmental harms they causehabitat loss and degradation, soil erosion and sedimentation, water resources depletion, soil and water salinization, agrochemical releases, animal wastes, nonpoint source water pollution, and air pollution environmental law has given them a virtual license to do so. When combined, the active and passive safe harbors farms enjoy in most environmental laws amount to an "anti-law" that finds no rational basis given the magnitude of harms farms cause. This Article comprehensively documents the environmental harms farms cause and the safe harbors they enjoy in environmental law, then argues for a core federal statute that blends regulation, information, tax, incentive, and trading instruments to address several of the major sources of harm. This Article shows that conventional prescriptive regulation simply will not effectively fit the geographic, economic and political demographics of farms, but that the proposed blend of instruments could achieve significant gains in farming's environmental performance without excessive administrative or compliance complexities and costs.
24115039|Despite the failure of Congress to explicitly provide for corporate successor liability in CERCLA, circuit courts have held that Congress did not intend to allow corporations to "evade their responsibility by dying paper deaths, only to rise phoenix-like from the ashes, transformed, but free of their former liabilities." The circuits are divided, however, as to when a company nominally reorganized but continuing its predecessor's line of business inherits also the predecessor's liability. This Note examines the case law surrounding one exception to the common law rule against successor liability and argues for expanded corporate successor liability as a means to encourage voluntary remediation by successor corporations.
24112398|Open space lands are a limited resource. Once virgin lands are committed to a developed use, even an agricultural use, they can never be returned to their natural state. In California, in the Westside region of the San Joaquin Valley, federal and state water and highway projects have stimulated such development, with no corresponding government programs or controls to protect adequately land resources from wasteful developments. Local discretion, favoring development for its purely local benefits, defeats the interests of our entire population in saving open areas. Statewide intervention and regional agencies are a means of injecting a wider spectrum of interests into the local processes affecting land use, thereby saving vanishing open space.
24113611|Geoengineering, a set of unconventional, untested, and risky proposals for responding to climate change, has attracted growing attention in the wake of our collective failure so far to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. Geoengineering research and deployment remain highly controversial, however, not only because of the risks involved, but also because of concern that geoengineering might undermine climate mitigation and adaptation efforts. The latter concern, often described as a moral hazard, has been questioned by some but not carefully explored. This Article examines the critical question of whether geoengineering presents a moral hazard by drawing on empirical studies of moral hazard and risk compensation and on the psychology literature of heuristics and cultural cognition. The Article finds it likely that geoengineering efforts will undermine mainstream strategies to combat climate change and suggests potential measures for ameliorating this moral hazard.
24114210|This is what is threatened today: the ancient, living, sacred sea. A sea which provides the primary source of protein for millions of poor people throughout the world. A sea which has deeply spiritual, as well as practical, importance. Our children may inherit an impostor ocean, a sickly ghost, drained of animal life and crowded with pathogens.
24114591|In order to prevent the avoidable environmental degradation that often accompanies new development, the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires state and local decision makers to consider the potential environmental impacts of their discretionary approvals, even when they are voting on entitlements for purely private development projects. Virtually any proposed development in most California cities can add to local traffic congestion and air pollution, and for this reason, can be rejected under CEQA. Because of California 's staggering population growth, projects rejected at one location are likely to find their way to another site. Does CEQA demand that before voting to approve, reject, or reduce the density of a project, a local government entity consider the environmental impacts at the site where the displaced development is likely to arise? Two recently decided appellate court cases reached opposite answers to this question. After examining Muzzy Ranch Co. v. Solano County Airport Land Use Commission and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. City of Turlock, this Article concludes that local governments should evaluate the environmental consequences of a project at both the proposed project location and at the likely displaced location (if the project is denied). Regrettably, this added requirement joins an already extensive list of topics covered in California's environmental review process, and could provide yet another basis for courts to set aside local government decisions. Yet, local government officials disregarding the consequences of displaced development risk reducing the density or rejecting a proposed development that is more environmentally benign than the likely alternatives.
24115037|In Massachusetts v. EPA, the United States Supreme Court attempted to relax the standing requirements for states that are suing the federal government. The decision is based on a new and confusing rule that a state should be given special considerationor "special solicitude"when courts consider whether it has standing to sue the federal government. The majority relied on the parens patriae doctrine, which gives a state the right to sue on behalf of its citizens to protect its quasi-sovereign interestssuch as "the health and comfort of its inhabitants " and the "earth and air in its domain. " This Note argues that states should have the right to sue the federal government on behalf of their citizens, and that the Court should extend the parens patriae doctrine to permit this kind of lawsuit.
24114607|It is well established that the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency has broad policy-making discretion when responding to uncertain environmental risks. Yet there are important limitations to that principle. An agency can exercise policy judgments only to the extent that Congress delegates such power, and only where doing so furthers the regulatory process. A useful analytical tool for evaluating whether agency policy-based decisions meet this test is the risk assessment/risk management framework. Risk assessment and risk management represent two phases of the regulatory process, each entailing a different set of relevant policy considerations. Where an agency bases its decisions on considerations relevant to the wrong phase it may thwart the regulatory scheme developed by Congress as well as exceed the scope of its delegated authority. A 2005 climate change litigation case, Massachusetts v. EPA, provides a case in point, illustrating the importance of the risk assessment/risk management framework to judicial review of agency policy-making. There, the court held that the Administrator may look to both science and general policy concerns when judging whether a pollutant poses a threat to public health and welfare. Interpreting the provision of the Clean Air Act at issue in that case in view of the risk assessment/risk management framework, this Note argues that the court misconstrued the range of policy factors the Administrator may cite as a basis for such a finding.
24112697|In this Article, Professors Heyman and Twiss discuss possible reshaping of legal and administrative systems to consider the environmental implications of actions taken by land management agencies. By focusing on the Forest Service, and particularly its activity of timber harvesting, a methodology is proposed for dealing with the extraordinary complexity of problems that must be faced in order to make environmentally sound planning and management decisions. In evaluating this agency's activites in terms of the developed criteria, the authors conclude with a number of suggestions for strengthening the systems used by the Forest Service and other federal land management agencies.
24113974|Transboundary management of Pacific salmon is governed by the Pacific Salmon Treaty. In 1999, the United States and Canada negotiated several long-term Annexes to the Treaty regarding specific management regimes. The Annexes address the previous failure to provide adequately for conservation by adopting an abundance-based allocation mechanism, by creating two Restoration and Enhancement Funds, and by adopting declarations of intent regarding scientific cooperation and habitat restoration. The new agreement does not, however, address the perennial lack of cooperation among the stakeholders. This potential weakness poses a threat to the stability of the Treaty and to the health of the Pacific salmon.
24115127|International carbon offset schemes allow industrialized countries and private entities to offset domestic greenhouse gas emissions by financing climate change mitigation projects in the developing world. Large multinational corporations profit from the sale of surplus credits and carbon derivatives on the international carbon market. The Clean Development Mechanism is a compliance-offset scheme established by the Kyoto Protocol and administered by the Clean Development Mechanism Executive Board. Despite the mechanism's stated objective that projects contribute to sustainable development, corporate investors pursue low-cost emission reductions while imposing a range of environmental and socioeconomic costs on developing countries. Poorly implemented projects damage local biodiversity and displace vulnerable communities. In spite of these concerns, the parties to the Kyoto Protocol are currently considering the proposal for a Clean Development Mechanism appeals procedure. The proposal, if implemented in its current form, would favor project developers by allowing them to appeal adverse decisions of the Executive Board. This Article presents an empirical critique of the Clean Development Mechanism's regulatory framework, focusing on access to information, public participation, environmental impact assessment, and access to justice. It argues for strengthened procedural requirements that would boost the mechanism's contribution to sustainable development and would enable non-governmental organizations to adequately scrutinize projects. The parties to the Kyoto Protocol should also grant local stakeholders and non-governmental organizations standing to appeal the registration of projects and the issuance of carbon credits to the impending Clean Development Mechanism Appellate Body. Without such reforms, the United Nations will continue to subsidize the destruction of biological diversity and the marginalization of the poorest communities in the developing world in the name of climate change mitigation.
24115004|In California v. U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Ninth Circuit held that the Bush administration improperly promulgated the 2005 State Petitions Rule in violation of the National Environmental Policy Act and the Endangered Species Act, and reinstated the Clinton administration's 2001 Roadless Rule. The August 2009 ruling is only the latest decision in a nearly decade-long litigation battle over the fate of roadless areas. This battle began shortly after the Clinton administration promulgated the Roadless Rule, which sought to protect administratively 58.5 million acres of roadless lands from development. These roadless lands were initially identified as a result of the 1964 Wilderness Act, which directed the Forest Service to study such areas for potential inclusion into the wilderness system. This Note goes back to the root of the roadless area debatethe Wilderness Act itselffor insight into the issues surrounding roadless-area management. Roadless areas share many of the characteristics of wilderness, and often serve as precursors to wilderness designation. The value of roadless areas and their connection to wilderness have animated much of the modern struggle over roadless area management, including the Forest Service's roadless area reviews, the administrative rules promulgated by the Clinton and Bush administrations, and the ensuing litigation. California v. U.S. Department of Agriculture, the most recent decision concerning the Roadless Rule, signals a need for change. This Note argues that managing roadless areas through administrative rulemaking is not viable because it lacks the permanence necessary for lasting resource conservation. Additionally, it might conflict with the Wilderness Act and appears to be creating "de facto wilderness." In keeping with the Wilderness Act, Congress should provide more legislative guidance. It could codify the Roadless Rule into law, amend the Wilderness Act to provide for different levels of protection, or amend the National Forest Management Act to require the Forest Service to take roadless values into account.
24112763|Lake Biwa is the world's third oldest lake. Its surface area of 685.49 kilometers and volume of 27.5 billion cubic meters make it [Japan's] largest lake. The rich waters of Lake Biwa have from antiquity been the source of life for people living along her shore and downstream, both as water for agriculture and for drinking.... Seafood from the fertile waters of Biwa has been feeding the people of Kinki throughout history. The annual catch now averages from 6,000 to 8,000 tons and as such is our country's second largest source of fresh water fish. Trout from Biwa are used to stock rivers and lakes all over Japan and represent 50% of the national total. Biwa is important culturally as well. The topology and geology of the shoreline which dates from the ice age, its rare flora and fauna, and its fossils of mammoths and other prehistoric animals may hold the secret to the riddle of the formation of the Japanese archipelago and are extremely important to geologists and paleontologists. On the floor of the lake are archeological ruins, and in the waters of the lake itself are over 1,000 species of plants and animals, about 50 of which live only in Lake Biwa.
24115064|The Supreme Court has labeled Penn Central Transportation Co. v. City of New York the "polestar" of its regulatory takings doctrine. Yet Penn Central's three-part balancing test has been widely criticized as offering nothing more than an amorphous, ad hoc framework that provides little guidance for litigants or courts reviewing takings claims. In the absence of a well defined and predictable takings doctrine, the lower courts are left grasping to make sense of Penn Central, and to extrapolate an intelligible standard from its framework. In this article, we examine the origins and interpretations of Penn Central, and identify some of the difficulties raised in its application. We explore some of the latest issues the lower courts have been struggling with in fleshing out the doctrine, which may warrant a grant of certiorari if the Roberts Court is willing to bring clarity and cohesion to regulatory takings law.
24115028|This Article explores the history of natural resources law and pollution control law to provide insights into current efforts by states to create solar easements, wind easements and other property rights in renewable resources to help achieve climate change and energy independence goals. One challenge for developing theoretical and policy frameworks in this area is that property rights have played an important role in both natural resources law and pollution control law, and while climate change invokes both fields, the role of property rights in each is quite different. Early natural resources law was based significantly on conveying property rights in natural resources to private parties to encourage westward expansion and economic development. By contrast, pollution control law as it first developed in the 1970s was based on placing limits on such rights and creating government permit systems to meet environmental protection goals. This Article proposes that as scholars and policymakers consider approaches to developing solar and wind energy on private lands, it will be important not to rely too heavily on a traditional natural-resource development approach. Instead, this Article argues that an approach that integrates resource access into state and local permitting and land use planning frameworks may better meet development and environmental protection goals without creating new entrenched and potentially problematic property rights in natural resources. Moreover,
24113621|The consequences of global warming and associated climate changes are now apparent. No longer can there be any doubt that anthropogenic (human-caused) warming of the Earth is happening, caused mainly by greenhouse gas emissions, primarily carbon dioxide, from burning fossil fuels. Climate change poses a grave threat to humankind. The world is already experiencing the consequences of global warming: more frequent and prolonged droughts, increasingly severe and more frequent storms, rising sea levels worldwide threatening coastal and vulnerable island populations, the melting of mountain glaciers and polar ice sheets, increased intensity of tropical cyclones and hurricanes, and more frequent and widespread fires. Without immediate action to curb greenhouse gas emissions, climate change can only get worse. In the period since the issue of global warming was brought to the attention of the general public in the late 1980s, both the legislative and the executive branches of the United States government have launched a number of initiatives to assess the threat and formulate policies to address it. Nevertheless, two decades later the United States government has failed to take effective measures to address climate change domestically or to assert international leadership on achieving meaningful carbon emission reductions. It is now well-documented that a shift in public opinion and failure of political will on climate change took place at the turn of the millennium, a change which can be largely attributed to a sophisticated, nationwide public relations campaign designed to conceal the dangers of burning fossil fuels from the American public by deceiving it as to the true state of climate science. Yet this deception is arguably punishable as criminal fraud under several United States statutes: first, as defrauding the public under the generic mail/wire fraud statute; and second, as defrauding the United States government under the "conspiracy to defraud the United States " statute. This Article examines whether it can be regarded as a crime based not just upon the unethical motives of its perpetrators, but on its effects: the catastrophic, global devastation which is the likely outcome of its success.
24113734|In 2005, Hurricane Katrina devastated New Orleans, Louisiana. Residents sued the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for negligently constructing and maintaining of a Gulf of Mexico shipping channel that caused the levee breaches that flooded their homes and destroyed their property. The Army Corps asserted immunity under the Flood Control Act, which exempts government flood-control projects from liability, and the Federal Tort Claims Act, which blocks suit where the government's action involved the exercise of a discretionary function. In In re Katrina Canal Breaches, the Fifth Circuit unanimously held that sovereign immunity did not bar the suit. But the same Fifth Circuit panel reversed its previous decision just months later, holding that the Army Corps was immune because its management of the channel involved discretionary policy considerations. The Fifth Circuit's reversal underscores an important issue: courts interpret these sovereign immunity provisions expansively and unpredictably. The historical and practical justifications for sovereign immunity fail to warrant this broad grant of immunity in the disaster context. Holding the government accountable for its negligence would encourage federal agencies to internalize the environmental externalities of its developments and reframe disaster policy to strengthen infrastructure before the next hurricane hit.
44320324|This Article proposes that any individual should have standing to challenge government action that exposes her to an increased lifetime risk of death or serious injury that is one in one million or greater. Because most regulation involves statistical probabilities of harm, a plaintiff challenging a government regulatory action or inaction as insufficiently protective cannot demonstrate that he or she likely would be harmed by the allegedly inadequate regulation, but merely that a different regulation might reduce the probability of risk The beneficiaries of a suit seeking better government regulation are, therefore, statistical persons rather than identifiable persons. By contrast, current standing law is largely based on the assumption that only identifiable persons with specific injuries can sue in Article III federal courts, although some decisions have explicitly or implicitly allowed "statistical standing" based on a probability of future injury. In Natural Resources Defense Council v. EPA, the District of Columbia Circuit recognized standing in a case involving probabilistic future risk where there was evidence demonstrating that two to four members of the Natural Resources Defense Council's nearly half a million members would develop skin cancer during their lifetimes as a result of an Environmental Protection Agency rule. Professor Heather Elliott has recently argued that the Natural Resources Defense Council v. EPA decision has the troubling implication that large public interest organizations have greater standing rights than small organizations or individuals because it is statistically more likely that one of their members would be harmed by a government regulation that allegedly is insufficiently protective of public safety. Under this Article's proposed one in one million standard, an individual or a member of a small association would have the same rights as a large organization. The proposed test would reduce the inconsistencies in how different judges or judicial circuits apply today's vague standing test. Additionally, Congress could overrule this presumptive standard and impose a different standard in a statute whenever it chose to do so.
24114643|This Essay comments on and develops Professor Brett Frischmann's concept of infrastructure commons, a theory which suggests that a variety of public and social resources (including information, transportation, environmental, and intellectual property resources) should be managed through open access regimes. Infrastructure theory remains underdeveloped, as it does not identify under which circumstances public and social infrastructure should be managed as commons or how the commons should operate for such resources. Differentiating the developmental stage of an infrastructure resourcewhether it is yet to be conceived, yet to be produced, or needs to be managedcan help to fill this gap. Infrastructure at different stages of development poses different challenges for optimizing social value, and the nature and strength of rationales supporting open access vary significantly across the different infrastructure stages. This Essay is based on a presentation at a panel on infrastructure commons at the Law & Society Annual Conference in Berlin, Germany.
24114752|Potentially thousands of miles of federal public land are burdened with outstanding right-of-way claims under a single sentence taken from a Civil War era mining statute, Revised Statute 2477 (R.S. 2477). R.S. 2477 seemed simple, in that it provided self-executing grants of easements over unreserved public lands. Nearly a century and a half later, though, resolution of these claims has become a complex issue, rife with uncertainty about which access routes are valid and which areas of land are affected. This is an especially salient issue in Utah, a public land state; Utah is comprised primarily of federal land, and it is riddled with an estimated 10,000 local R.S. 2477 roads. The Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals' extensive opinion in Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance v. Bureau of Land Management (SUWA) culminated a legal battle among several rural Utah counties and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) over the "improvement" of rights-of-way through federal land in southern Utah. While the court upheld the agency's ability to regulate changes to existing rights-of-way,5 it rejected BLM authority to determine the initial validity of R.S. 2477 claims.6 This Note contends that case-by-case adjudication of claims, pursuant to SUWA, is insufficient. It advocates for a proactive national plan to settle outstanding R.S. 2477 claims. To date, Congress has not only failed to devise such a plan, but it has also hindered resolution by placing a moratorium on agency rulemaking. Legislators need to reach a compromise between "states' rights" and "federal rights" and develop a rational solution that balances the protection of federal public lands against the transportation needs of rural residents in public land states.
24114254|The Nondelegation Doctrine has not presented a viable barrier to administrative agency rulemaking in over sixty years. In Whitman v. American Trucking, the Supreme Court ensured that the doctrine will maintain its defunct status when it held that EPA's National Ambient Air Quality Standards did not violate the doctrine. Alternatively, the Court directed lower courts to ground their judicial review of agency actions in more sound principles of administrative law. This holding provides the judiciary with the tools it requires to check agency actions without limiting agencies' necessary flexibility in carrying out their congressional mandates.
24112429|Originally aimed solely at protecting surface and underground sources of drinking water, water pollution control has become an increasingly complex and difficult environmental problem. In California the State Water Resources Control Board has been given a broad authority to control pollution and preserve the quality of the State's water resources. A primary aspect of the Board's responsibilities relates to the administration in the public interest of appropriative water rights, both existing and to be created. In this Article, the current Vice-Chairman of the Board offers insights into the extent of the Board's authority and suggests several avenues for its future use.
24111342|The Mexican law has been consistently ignored as a source of law in the western United States. Yet, one of the basic precepts of international law is that upon the succession of sovereign nations the law of the former continues in effect. Although in many cases the Mexican law will have been superseded by legislation or by judicial adoption of common law principles, in many others, where for instance proprietary or trust interests under the Mexican law existed at the time of cession to the United States, the Mexican law may still be applicable today. The effect of the Mexican law is anticipated to be especially great in relation to land held by the government in trust for the public. In the formerly Mexican western states, recognition of our Mexican law heritage may require a redefinition of the government's obligation for former Indian lands and of the compass of our own public trust lands. The subject of this paper will be this latter aspect of the Mexican law: the influence of the Mexican law upon the public trust doctrine and its application to a current problem in Californiathat of providing public access to public tidelands.
24115053|This Article takes up the increasingly important land use question of siting for renewable energy. As concern over climate change grows, new policies are being crafted at all levels of government to support renewable energy as a way of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. These policies are driving the need to site and construct new power plants that will utilize renewable resources. Historically, power plant siting has been the province of state and local governments, so the regulatory context into which renewables are being integrated varies, sometimes significantly, jurisdiction by jurisdiction. To examine this regulatory context, this Article focuses on Florida, a state which consumes the third-most electricity in the United States but which generates less than 2 percent of that electricity from renewable resources. The Article first provides an overview of Florida's power supply sector and sets out the existing regulatory context for terrestrial siting of energy facilities. It then situates Florida's most promising renewable resources within that context, identifies regulatory barriers that implicate siting, and considers the siting issues unique to each resource. As the article explains, we now have a window of opportunity in which state and local governments can plan for and guide renewable energy sitingan approach that contrasts with utility-driven planning and siting that has long been standard practice.
24114998|The Clean Water Act (CWA) was passed in response to increased pollution in the nation's navigable waters caused by industrial actors and others. Congress sought to achieve two goals with the CWA: eliminate pollution discharges into the nation's waters, and achieve national uniformity in a water pollution control scheme. However, Congress recognized that complete elimination of all pollution discharges was not immediately achievable. As a result, it created a dual-permitting scheme under the CWA, authorizing the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to issue permits for the discharge of pollutants into navigable waters, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) to issue permits for the discharge of "dredged or fill" material into navigable waters. The 2009 Supreme Court decision in Coeur Alaska, Inc. v. Southeast Alaska Conservation Council reveals that the line separating the EPA's and the Corps' respective permitting authority has become blurred. In this case, the Court upheld the Corps' issuance of a "fill" permit to a gold mining project seeking to discharge mining waste into a nearby lake. The Court held that the Corps, and not the EPA, possesses the authority to issue permits for the discharge of fill material, regardless of whether the fill is also considered a pollutant under the CWA. Additionally, the Court held that the strict EPA-promulgated effluent discharge limitations for new sources of discharge do not apply to Corps permits. The Court's opinion threatens to undermine the two goals of the CWA because it opens the door for industrial actors to circumvent the stricter EPA permit requirements by simply ensuring their waste disposal contains a sufficient amount of fill. The EPA's uniform, technology-based permit requirements are stricter than the Corps', which evaluates permit applications on a case-by-case basis with no governing effluent limitations. After Coeur Alaska, the CWA could be upended by industrial actors seeking to avoid a stricter EPA permit in favor of a Corps permit. Although the EPA may veto any Corps permit, this power is rarely used. I propose multiple solutions to ensure both of Congress's goals of the CWA are met, ultimately advocating for an amendment to the CWA that would force Corps permits to comply with EPA-promulgated effluent pollution standards. This solution would have prevented the Corps permit issuance in the Coeur Alaska case, and it would uphold the integrity of the CWA into the future.
24114533|Twenty years ago Glacier National Park was considered the park most at risk from external threats, such as mining and timber harvesting on adjacent lands. This finding led to an earlier Article that examined whether Glacier officials were effectively defending the park from these external threats. We concluded that the park's non-confrontational strategies were tenuous at best, but that some protection had been achieved by strong laws enforced by environmental advocates. We also noted the park's early efforts to promote a regional management vision. Since then, the concept of a regional ecosystem that must be protected across formal borders has progressed significantly, though still imperfectly. This Article, based on detailed interviews and documents, is a twenty-year reassessment of resource management in the Glacier region, revisiting controversies from our earlier study and examining several new ones too. It also evaluates the actual forces that driveand that impedeefforts to manage land in accord with habitat and watershed realities, rather than boundary lines drawn on a map.
24113615|Among the major emissions trading schemes in operation around the world, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) stands alone: this CO2 cap-and-trade program among nine northeastern states is the only such scheme to rely primarily on auctions to distribute emissions allowances. The standard practicedistributing allowances for free on the basis of historical emissionselicits begrudging but politically crucial support from some regulated emitters. Like carbon taxation, allowance auctioning has long been considered economically superior to its alternatives but politically infeasible. How did the RGGI states manage to defy conventional wisdom and institute a program so reliant on auctions? Existing analyses of RGGI's origins credit entrepreneurial state-level bureaucrats with converting a promising theory into policy reality. These analyses, however, are incomplete and cannot explain why RGGI-state legislatures overwhelmingly supported auctioning in spite of concentrated industry opposition. This Article suggests that the politics of auctioning in RGGI cannot be understood apart from recent fundamental changes in the structure of electricity regulation. In the Northeast, restructuring has entailed the creation of competitive regional wholesale electricity markets and the breakup of electric utilities. Together, these changes have remade the political economy of energy policy. The newly transformed utility sector now includes industry players who do not oppose auctioning. State legislators, fearing RGGI-induced wholesale rate increases, have embraced auctions as a source of revenue to offset adverse rate effects. The story of RGGI thus demonstrates that received political wisdom can be upset by policy developments in adjacent fields and reminds us of the political contingencies that undergird even the most carefully crafted regulatory interventions.
24114262|In Metalclad Corp. v. United Mexican States, an arbitration panel found the Mexican government to have violated the North American Free Trade Agreement's (NAFTA) investor protection provisions. Concluding that a local government in Mexico wrongly blocked Metalclad, an American company, from opening a hazardous waste facility, the panel ordered Mexico to pay the company $16.7 million as compensation for its lost investment. The arbitration panel's broad interpretations of NAFTA's investor protection provisions and its disregard of environmental factors elevate foreign investors' rights over the right of governments to protect human health and the environment. Metalclad's analysis may be especially regrettable if it is applied in future Chapter 11 cases or its policy of subverting environmental values is replicated in future international trade agreements.
24112428|Farmworkers, growers, and consumers have become increasingly aware of potential environmental hazards posed by intensive and extensive pesticide use. These hazards have been translated into significant external costs, necessitating further examination of present pest control philosophy and governmental controls. In this Article, the author uses the fertile Imperial Valley of California, the source of innovative local programs of pest control, as the basis for such an examination. After describing the Imperial Valley's experience, Professor Dunning stresses the desirability of an integrated approach to pest control. As a basic construct, this method requires independent decision making and individualized governmental supervision. It excludes sole reliance on chemical, biological, or cultural control unless best suited to solve a particular pest problem.
43920934|This Note analyzes climate change impacts on Arctic fisheries and governance structures, and examines the role of science, policy, and law in minimizing future repercussions of such impacts. The Arctic is currently undergoing unprecedented shifts in marine species, and climatic conditions in the region are changing at a rate nearly twice as fast as those at lower latitudes. In addition, long-term climatic changes present entirely new challenges. These ecological and socioeconomic alterations will have a significant effect on fisheries governance structures and interactions between Arctic countries and could potentially destabilize existing management regimes. Positive changes to fishery stock compositions and distributions may also lead to conflicts between Arctic nations due to overlapping jurisdictional claims, unregulated fishing, and a lack of multiregional agreements. The current Arctic regulatory and governance framework is not sufficient in scope and flexibility to adequately address future fishery changes brought on by climate change. This Note suggests that the region needs a new, dynamic management regime in order to successfully negotiate the uncertainties inherent in climate change predictions and anticipate the effects such climatic changes will have on fisheries stocks. I propose four primary components of such a regime: (1) increased overlap of nation-state actors and scientists, (2) institutional nesting, (3) division and management of resources (both in terms of jurisdictional concerns, as well as conservation and utilization principles), and (4) non-political measures. I integrate these components into specific governance options for the future, including the creation of an Arctic regional treaty, an overhaul of the Arctic Council, and the formation of an Arctic-wide Regional Fisheries Management Organization. This Note concludes that although a regional treaty or agreement is currently unrealistic, overhauling the Arctic Council and establishing a new Arctic Ocean Regional Fisheries Management Organization may be feasible options to create an effective governance regime.
24114505|The use of tax incentives to encourage private landowners to donate conservation easements has become increasingly popular as policy makers search for ways to combat the growing problem of urban sprawl. The tax incentives have worked remarkably well to encourage private landowners who have both the will and the means to shoulder a significant percentage of the economic cost of protecting their land through the donation of conservation easements. However, the success of the tax incentive program should not blind its proponents to its inevitable inefficiencies and limitations. Continually increasing the tax incentives in an effort to make them attractive to a broader class of landowners  including, in particular, so-called "land rich, cash, poor" landowners  could have unintended consequences. Thus far, the land trust community has been able to recognize and respond to the challenges presented by the acquisition and long-term stewardship of conservation easements. However, the capacity of land trusts (and the often less well-equipped government agencies) to respond to such challenges is not unlimited. Some easement holders could be overwhelmed if Congress and the states adopt policies that result in a sudden surge in easement donations. Moreover, exploitation and abuse of the tax incentives by profit motivated "donors" could imperil the very existence of the tax incentive program and call into question both the credibility of the land trust community and the use of conservation easements as a private land protection tool. This article undertakes a much-needed critical analysis of the tax incentives designed to encourage conservation easement donations and proposals to increase those incentives. The article ultimately concludes that a responsible approach to increasing the tax incentives is called for: Congress should increase the incentives only if some assurance can be had that the increase will be efficient, that land trusts and government agencies have the expertise and resources to appropriately screen and steward the anticipated additional easements, and that the increase will not encourage exploitation and abuse.
24114303|In Biodiversity Legal Foundation v. Badgley, the Ninth Circuit held that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service cannot delay the initial finding to list a species as threatened or endangered beyond the mandatory deadline for making a final determination to list the species. The court held that under the Endangered Species Act, both decisions must be made within twelve months of receiving the listing petition. The court rejected the Service's arguments that funding constraints prevent timely final determinations. However, the decision failed to elucidate permissible reasons for delaying the initial finding for up to a year. It also failed to determine whether the agency's Listing Priority Guidance, which relegates new listing petitions to the bottom of the Service's priority list, is valid. Moreover, while the decision will clearly benefit species' advocates by reining in agency delay, it may actually harm at-risk species that lack petitioners vying for their listing.
44321160|In Defenders of Wildlife v. Chertoff, the D.C. District Court upheld the constitutionality of an extraordinarily broad waiver provision in the REAL I.D. Act of 2005. That provision, section 102, allows the Secretary of Homeland Security to waive all laws he deems necessary to ensure expeditious construction of border fencing along the United States-Mexico border. While Defenders of Wildlife confirms the legality of waiver provisions like section 102, it also raises the interesting question of what drives legislative decisionmaking in the face of uncertainty. Behavioral science research shows that in the post-9/11 world, our ability to objectively perceive risk is altered by our knowledge of terrorist attacks and by our exposure to media coverage of the terrorist threat the United States faces. This diminished ability to objectively perceive risk can negatively affect the deliberative process when Congress must legislate around uncertain risks, like the risk of environmental harm and the risk of future terrorist attachs. I consider several options that might minimize the effect of this phenomenon on the crafting of legislation, including the creation of a standing risk assessment council, the inclusion of traditional waiver provision elements that limit the effects of potentially irrational legislative behavior, and drafting legislation that requires waiver-invoking officials to accurately characterize the risks to be considered.
24113965|The Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia limited the ability of the U.S.E.P.A. and Army Corps of Engineers to regulate excavation of wetlands with the 1998 holding of National Mining Association v. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The court invalidated and enjoined enforcement of the Tulloch Rule which would have required a Corps permit under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act for any dredging activity in a wetland that produced "incidental fallback." The court reasoned that incidental fallback is not a regulable discharge under Section 404, ignoring the Chevron Rule of deference to agency interpretation of statutes, the damaging effects of dredging on wetlands, and language of the Clean Water Act showing that Congress intended to regulate wetland excavation under Section 404.
44321159|Since its passage in 1970, section 112 of the Clean Air Act (CAA) has regulated the health risks associated with exposure to hazardous air pollutants (HAPs). Risk managers at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) entrusted with implementing section 112, however, often know little about the relationship between exposure to HAPs and the incidence of disease. Partly because of this uncertainty, EPA struggled to implement section 112, prompting Congress to revamp the regulatory approach in 1990. Technology-based controls now provide the first line of defense, but health-based controls similar to those in the 1970 CAA continue to govern any leftover, or residual, risk. The "residual risk" provision is found in section 112(f)(2)(A), which affords EPA discretion to set standards so long as they leave "an ample margin of safety to protect public health." But that section also directs EPA to promulgate standards whenever lifetime excess cancer risks from exposure to a HAP exceed one-in-one million ("the trigger"). The issue of EPA's obligations under section 112(f) recently came before the D.C. Circuit in Natural Resources Defense Council v. EPAthe agency contended the trigger only required that it evaluate risk in a rulemaking, while environmental groups argued the trigger required EPA to eliminate all risks above the one-in-one-million mark. The court sided with EPA, holding that the agency had reasonably interpreted its obligations under the statute. This Note explores the impact of the court's decision on future EPA residual risk rulemaking. It contends that EPA's reading of section 112(f)(2)(A), while not confidence-inspiring, does provide a workable framework for addressing the core concerns posed by the scientific uncertainty underscoring HAP regulation. However, to safeguard against EPA defaulting to a risk-management approach that ignores source-specific variation, this Note concludes that courts must take a particularly hard look at EPA residual risk standards.
24111337|Private citizen litigation has often been mentioned as the most direct method of allowing citizens actively to pursue a quality environment. A variety of proposals have been introduced and attempted both in state legislatures and in Congress. With the proposed House and Senate legislation in mind, this Article warns that the major proposals presently being considered may ultimately prove to be detrimental rather than beneficial to the cause of environmental preservation.
24113616|Voluntary standards, certification and labeling systems are one of many forms of private governance institutions that have been developed in recent years to permit communities to govern without government. These institutions enhance efficiency by internalizing externalized social costs and by meeting consumer preferences associated with risk. This Article advances the existing literature in four ways. First, drawing from Calabresi and Melamed's seminal article, Property Rules, Liability Rules and Inalienability Rules: One View of the Cathedral, the Article explains how these institutions are "Rule 4" institutionsthey facilitate the trade of entitlements by lowering steep transaction and information costs. Second, the Article observes that these systems are developed primarily in response to government void and government failure and identifies the rules and structures these systems supply to regulate in the absence of government. The institutions pose interesting implications for the Coase-theorem premise that the main obstacle to internalizing externalities through private sector solutions is the lack of properly defined property rights; these institutions have no authority to define or allocate property rights, and yet they facilitate the exchange of entitlements. Third, the Article identifies the strengths and weaknesses of the systems and suggests ways to support them. Finally, the Article suggests that where governments have adopted voluntary standards, certification and labeling systems to counteract their own allocation of entitlements, an overhaul of existing law to change the original allocation may be in order.
24114614|Our understanding of ecosystems has drastically changed since the advent of modern environmental law. Initially, ecosystems were thought of as systems in balance that, without human disturbance, would form stable equilibria. The environmental protection laws of the 1970s were enacted during a time when we believed that the exact state of nature to be preserved or reestablished through environmental protection could be easily defined. In the last few decades, however, a new understanding of ecosystems has evolved. We now understand ecosystems to be in constant flux from the influences of both natural phenomena and human disturbances. Because ecosystems' responses to disturbances are uncertain, fixed baselines indicating a healthy environment are no longer knowable, and disturbances due to human activity or natural fluxes are not always distinguishable. This new awareness of uncertainty regarding the source and extent of environmental harms calls for a more flexible approach to environmental regulation. One such innovative approach to environmental management is the concept of "adaptive management," which recognizes the utility and necessity of experimentation and flexibility in identifying how complex ecosystems respond to disturbances. This Comment looks at how modern ecological theory has undermined the foundational assumptions of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), challenging the notion that we can establish fixed baselines to identify an "undisturbed" ecosystem, and explores whether and how adaptive management can work under the existing NEPA structure.
24115027|This Article examines the role local governments play in four states that have constitutional rights to a healthful environmentIllinois, Pennsylvania, Montana, and Hawaii. Scholars such as John R. Nolon and Patricia E. Salkin have long noted that local governments work as quiet yet integral third partners with state and federal government by addressing environmental issues through land use regulation. For local governments in environmental rights states, environmental protection is not just an aspiration, but a constitutional mandate. Indeed, environmental rights cannot be fully protected without the strong engagement of local government. This Article describes the constitutional provisions of Illinois, Pennsylvania, Montana, and Hawaii, and summarizes how the environmental rights case law intersects with the land use law in each state. Here, the Article updates much earlier comparative scholarship on environmental rights, using a land use lens. It also builds on the observations of Barton "Buzz" Thompson and other environment rights scholars who have noted a gap between the constitutional right to a healthful environment and its regulatory implementation. It is local government that can fill much of this gap. Next, this Article combines the theoretical with the practical by presenting a checklist of topics that local governments can consider in designing regulations that protect environmental rights. Even in states lacking a constitutional right provision, local governments can benefit from the practical suggestions offered here. By stepping up to meet their constitutional obligation, local governments in environmental rights states are poised to become leaders in creating and implementing robust environmental land use provisions.
24114125|Citizen suits seeking to enforce environmental regulations have previously been of very little use to environmental group plaintiffs. The United States Supreme Court has traditionally interpreted constitutional standing requirements narrowly to deny such actions to most citizen suit plaintiffs. The Court's recent Laidlaw decision signifies a lowering of this bar. The decision is significant because it offers a somewhat broader definition of constitutional standing requirements and illustrates the Court's willingness to look to Congress' intent when authorizing citizen suit enforcement. In the wake of this decision, citizen suit plaintiffs should have an easier time achieving the standing that Congress intended.
24114055|The environmental challenges of the twenty-first century will arise from the interaction of many different human activities. The coalescence and interaction of multiple environmental problems in specific locations call for new research and management approaches. For water resources and atmospheric quality issues, management strategies that account for the influences of multiple human activities in interaction with the dynamic natural system are being developed and evaluated. What is still needed are strategies that deal not just with water or air resource issues separately, but with multiple resource issues as they interact with each other in specific places at specific times.
24112700|Stationary source air contaminant emissions, primarily industrial, have been and continue to be major contributors to air pollution. Congress and the California Legislature have created various regulatory agencies to control these emissions. This Comment discusses the legislation creating these agencies and the authority currently delegated to them. It encompasses all legislation through the 90th Congress and the 1970 California legislative session. The author points out weaknesses in the administrative structure and suggests specific ways in which it could be improved.
24114742|The U.S. Supreme Court's 2006 ruling in S.D. Warren v. Maine Board of Environmental Protection affirms that releases of water from hydroelectric dams constitute a "discharge" under the federal Clean Water Act (CWA). This means that hydropower relicensing will trigger section 401 of the CWA, requiring federal licensees to obtain state certifications that their operations will comply with state water quality standards. While for the most part the S.D. Warren opinion is a narrow exercise in statutory interpretation, it is also a landmark in the shifting balance of federal and state power in hydropower regulation. The Federal Power Act of 1920 (FPA) originally granted the Federal Power Commission (later the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC) sole, preemptive authority to license nonfederal hydroelectric dams. Later amendments to the FPA and new statutes such as the CWA have eroded that sole, preemptive FERC role, elevating the importance of environmental considerations and the influence of state and federal resource protection agencies in the dam relicensing process. By affirming that dam releases are "discharges" under the CWA, S.D. Warren turns back an attempt to severely curtail the role of states in hydropower regulation. Furthermore, in declining to consider an FPA-based preemption challenge to the states' CWA section 401 authority, the S.D. Warren ruling gives states a green light to forcefully assert their environmental goals in the hundreds of hydropower relicensing proceedings that will be taking place in coming years. In particular, I argue that under section 401, the state role need not be limited to the traditional one-time, prospective review that locks in license conditions for thirty to fifty years. Adaptive management, with its emphasis on longterm monitoring, contingency planning and responsiveness to new information, is better suited to the dynamic nature of river ecosystems. S.D. Warren leaves open the opportunity for states to use section 401 to impose adaptive management requirements on hydropower licenses. Doing so would allow states to improve the responsiveness of dam regulation to changing knowledge and environmental conditions.
24115069|The U.S. Forest Service and other federal agencies often face tough choices about how to reconcile competing congressional mandates for multiple use and environmental protection of public lands. The balance they achieve will determine the long-term health of many of our nation's ecosystems and the sustainability of the invaluable services they perform. Providing agency scientists and managers with the flexibility and systemic incentives to intelligently address the questions they face is therefore crucial. As the Forest Service actively reworks its planning rule, past failures provide valuable lessons about where improvements to biodiversity protections are needed and what forms they should take. The 2010 decision by the Ninth Circuit in Native Ecosystems Council v. Tidwell highlights some of the problems inherent in the current system, including a management indicator species mandate that lacks scientific support, front-loaded environmental analysis which fails to facilitate learning and perpetuates unsuccessful practices, and a lack of transparency in Forest Service decision making that can render the National Forest Management Act's biodiversity mandate judicially unenforceable. The new planning rule should address these deficiencies with strong requirements for native species viability, use of the best available science (including full disclosure of uncertainties), and a truly adaptive management framework based on ongoing monitoring, frequent rvaluation, and changed practices when failures occur. While the draft rule issued in February 2011 takes tentative steps in this direction, it does not achieve the meaningful, enforceable changes needed.
24115128|The United States has been slow to take steps to mitigate the effects of climate change. Yet climate change is impacting many of its citizens in the form of rising sea levels, increased storm intensity, deeper droughts, and more frequent wildfires. Several plaintiff groups filed public nuisance and other tort claims against automakers and electric power companies for injuries the plaintiffs incurred from climate change. Unfortunately, district courts dismissed these cases under the political question doctrine, failing to reach the merits of the case. The application of the political question doctrine to these climate change cases, which were in essence complex tort cases, was erroneous. These cases demonstrate that the political question doctrine in its current form lacks definition in terms of scope and principle. This Note examines the principles upon which the doctrine is based and the role of the courts in United States to argue for a re-articulated political question doctrine that is narrowed in scope, such that it would not be applied to complex yet justiciable cases.
24114513|The Miccosukee Tribe of Indians and Friends of the Everglades brought suit against a water management district in southern Florida, alleging that it was in violation of the Clean Water Act for failing to obtain a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit for a pump which propels polluted water from a drainage canal into the Everglades. On appeal, the United States Supreme Court remanded the case for further development of the record on whether the canal and water conservation area are "meaningfully distinct" bodies of water for permitting purposes. On remand the defendants will be able to pursue the "unitary waters theory" advanced by the United States as amicus curiae late in the stages of litigation, which posits that all navigable waters of the United States are one, and that movement of water (and pollutants) from one navigable water body to the other does not require an NPDES permit. This note explores the potential implications of the unitary waters theory and concludes that the lower court will reject it on remand. It also discusses the related but discrete issue of whether the two water bodies in question are "meaningfully distinct." Finally, it argues that an NPDES permit for the pump will not actually solve what is at the heart of this dispute - pollution of the Everglades, and that efforts should instead be focused the state and federal projects already working to decrease the nonpoint source pollution that is poisoning this national treasure.
24115034|Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act requires federal agencies to avoid jeopardizing endangered species. Although the plain text of the statute asserts that the consultation duty applies to "any action, " the United States Supreme Court reread the statute and its implementing regulations to limit that duty to only discretionary actions in National Association of Home Builders v. Defenders of Wildlife. In considering the conflict between this consultation duty and a mandatory duty to transfer administration of the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) to Arizona, the majority determined that section 7 consultation does not apply to mandatory actions. This holding rests on a poorly crafted Chevron analysis in which the majority began by misapplying the canon against implied repeals in an overbroad and inconsistent way. The canon against implied repeals has typically operated to push judges to reconcile statutes where possible, reading an implied repeal only where no such reconciliation is possible. However, the court used it here to manufacture ambiguity in otherwise straightforward language, eventually working a repeal of the later-enacted section 7. Building on the shaky ground of its Chevron analysis, the majority then erected a contrived interpretation of the federal regulation governing section 7 consultation that is wholly inconsistent with the history and structure of the regulation. Given the logical and legal inconsistency underlying the holding, the decision looks less like a careful analysis of the legal issues surrounding section 7 consultation and more like a policy determination to limit environmental protections. At a minimum, this holding returns United States biodiversity policy to the incoherent and ineffective state Congress expressly rejected in passing the Endangered Species Act in 1973. At worst, this holding may in fact render section 7 almost entirely without legal effect.
44321153|In Environmental Conservation Organization v. City of Dallas, the Fifth Circuit creates obstacles for environmental citizen suits by imposing a "realistic prospect" standard for the mootness test. The realistic prospect standard shifts the burden of proof in a mootness test from the defendant to the citizen group filing suit, requiring the citizen group to prove that there is a "realistic prospect" that a defendant will continue to violate the statute in question. This Note argues that the Fifth Circuit erred in its decision to impose the "realistic prospect" standard and also in its application of the standard to the facts of that case. This Note concludes that the Fifth Circuit's decision exacerbates existing ambiguity in the Clean Water Act's citizen suit provision and could ultimately undermine the utility of citizen suits as supplemental enforcement mechanisms within the field of environmental law.
24111285|In seeking means of dealing with pollution of interstate waters, the states have traditionally turned to the mechanism of the interstate compactand continue to do so. The success or failure of the interstate compact commissions clearly has serious implications for the future of water pollution control, particularly along the multi-jurisdictional river basins of the eastern half of the United States. This study of the compact mechanism first examines the features of interstate compacts in general, and then treats in some detail the provisions of the fourteen interstate compacts listed in the Appendix, which deal expressly with water quality control. The Article's treatment is instructive in pointing out both the inherent weaknesses in the compact approach, as well as the many avoidable pitfalls which often are not, in fact, avoided.
24114231|Major structural changes in government since national security became a dominant priority threaten to undermine regulatory protections of the nation's environment. One troubling environmental threat is the introduction of invasive species, especially those introduced by ballast water discharged from ships arriving in U.S. ports. In 2003, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) denied a petitionfour years after receiving itthat sought to repeal an EPA rule exempting ballast water from regulation under the Clean Water Act (CWA). Despite having authority to regulate ballast water under the CWA, the EPA decided that the Coast Guard should regulate ballast water. Yet the Coast Guard is no longer able to tackle the problem due to its focus on national security in the wake of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. As the ballast water issue suggests, courts should not defer to an agency decision about its role relative to other agencies. Instead, courts should consider the legislative concept underlying the agency's authorizing statute and determine whether the agency's rationale is reasonable. Without this review by the judiciary, an agency might simply defer unpleasant or undesired regulatory tasks to a sister agency with no real power, leading to under-regulation.
24112830|In 1969, Union Carbide built a small pesticide plant outside of Bhopal, India. The plant was located in a deserted area outside the city limits, but by the time the plant was expanded six years later, large numbers of squatters had settled near the facility. The squatters were attracted by employment opportunities and the new roads and water lines that had accompanied the plant. Union Carbide uses methyl isocyanate, an extremely potent tear gas, to produce relatively toxic pesticides. At the Bhopal plant, the methyl isocyanate was stored in refrigerated underground tanks to keep the volatile gas in a liquid form. In November 1984, the Bhopal plant was temporarily closed for maintenance repairs on the storage tanks, connecting pipes, and a scrubber (a safety device designed to neutralize any escaping gas). On the night of December 3, 1984, the temperature in one of the storage tanks began to rise, causing the pressure in the tank to increase. A safety system, designed to relieve excessive pressure in the tank automatically, failed to operate. Workers were unable to manually operate mechanisms to relieve the pressure in the tank, and many of the workers fled from the facility. A critical control panel failed and prevented the leak from appearing on monitors that could have provided an earlier warning. Two safety devices also failed: the scrubber, which should have neutralized the escaping gas, and another mechanism, which should have ignited the gas and burned it off harmlessly in the outside air. Within an hour the tank was finally sealed by the plant manager aided by engineers sent in by local authorities. Within that hour, though, the damage had been done. Much of the gas had escaped and spread in a thick cloud over Bhopal. The Bhopal plant had one manual alarm system (in contrast to a computerized four-stage alarm system used at a sister plant in Institute, West Virginia), which was sounded, but few surviving residents recalled hearing it. Many of those who did hear the alarm did not understand what it meant, and, in fact, many people ran toward the plant thinking it was a fire alarm. Within hours, hundreds of residents were dead or dying. By the end of the week, an estimated 2500 people had died as a result of the gas leak, and thousands more were critically ill. Medical authorities remain concerned about the long-term effects of exposure to isocyanate, including blindness, liver and kidney damage, mental retardation, and severe respiratory ailments. Prior to the tragedy at Bhopal, some officials in the Indian government had questioned the propriety of permitting factories to produce and store chemicals in the midst of densely populated areas. In July of 1984, India's Department of the Environment proposed stringent guidelines banning plants that produced hazardous chemicals from locating within fifteen miles of the outer limits of any city. As of December 1984, the guidelines had not been approved by other government departments or the Indian Cabinet, primarily because local governments which wanted to encourage industrial growth opposed the proposed safety restrictions. Even if India had adopted the proposed law, it may not have applied to plants already built, and the tragedy at Bhopal might still have occurred.
24111361|DDT and other pesticides are among the most powerful weapons used by the agricultural industry in its continuing war against insects and other "pests" which may threaten crops. During the past three decades the new varieties of such chemicals and the extent of farmers' reliance upon them have greatly increased. While pesticides significantly contribute to agricultural productivity, it has become apparent that their benefits may not outweigh the danger they create for man and his environment. The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act and its amendments in the recent Federal Environmental Pesticide Control Act are the primary means by which the federal government controls the sale and use of pesticide products. This Comment examines these statutes in the context of recent pesticide litigation and analyzes their potential for facilitating environmental challenge to pesticides, for preventing indiscriminate pesticide use, and for reducing the threat which pesticides pose to public health and environmental welfare.
24112397|If eternal vigilance is the price of liberty, it is also the price of environmental quality. During the past several years, conservationists have turned to the courts with increasing frequency seeking an unbiased forum for review of environmentally undesirable government actions. But too often these representatives of the public interest find that the legal doctrine of standing to sue blocks their legal action against the offending agency. This Comment analyzes the effect of two recent Supreme Court cases, concerning the complex and confused area of standing to sue, in an attempt to show that granting standing to conservationists is both desirable and consistent with the present trend toward a liberalized law of standing.
24113736|The tension between advancing water science and the outdated legal regimes underlying water allocation produces thorny issues for courts, which must apply rules based on outdated assumptions, and water managers, who are tasked with understanding water's physical behavior, allocating supplies fairly, and preserving the resource for future generations. Texas is legendary for its long-standing commitment to the common law "rule of capture, " which allows landowners to keep as much groundwater as they can pump without liability to nearby landowners whose supplies are depleted. Texas recently took this property rights scheme a step further in Edwards Aquifer Authority v. Day, in which the state Supreme Court concluded that common law provides Texas landowners vested rights in groundwater while it is in place beneath their land, prior to capture. Although the decision has been criticized for expected deleterious effects on groundwater management, this Note argues that the court provided a path supporting more aggressive regulation. Therefore, this flawed ownership doctrine is not determinative of Texas's ability to manage its groundwater moving for the future. Rather, this Note concludes that Texas must expand its legislative scheme because modern management goals demand more comprehensive, flexible, and expert management than an adjudicatory strategy can produce.
24111360|Growing public concern and awareness of air pollution dangers has led to increasingly comprehensive state and federal legislation directed at the air quality problem. While legislative attention to air pollution has largely been confined to the direct regulation of pollution sources, studies of air quality control long have recognized that land-use planning and control are necessary to achieve and maintain clean air. Since 1970 the federal Clean Air Act has authorized both land-use and transportation controls as part of the state plans for implementing federal air quality standards. This article reviews the role that land-use controls can play in achieving the air quality levels mandated by the federal statute, and considers the extent to which land-use controls have been and are likely to be used for this purpose. It will first discuss the regulatory system introduced by the 1970 federal legislation, with special attention directed to the role of land-use controls prescribed in that act. The article then analyzes ways in which land-use controls at the state and local level might be used as an air pollution control strategy, discussing implementation of the federal land-use controls provision by the Environmental Protection Agency. The present role of land-use controls in a federal air pollution strategy is contrasted with other enacted and pending federal statutes which require national land-use policy implementation at state and local levels. Finally, the article suggests a role for land-use controls in regulating air pollution.
24111298|The AEC administrative process regulates nuclear power plants in two stages: the first stage results in a construction permit, and the second, an operating license. The commitment of resources at the construction stage is so great, however, that the AEC and the industry become increasingly unable to modify the proposal. Thus, the final decision to license normally becomes almost perfunctory. This case-study first analyzes the industry's decision to build a nuclear power plant. It then illustrates how the AEC process of granting approval of construction permit fails to consider environmental objections except for the most serious hazards to public health. This Article also notes that those objections submitted by governmental agencies, as well as those of concerned citizens, may be ignored.
24112474|Pollution is a global phenomenon, its effects showing no respect for political boundaries. The environment is at once both the most challenging and the most international issue facing the world community today. The first and most important question is how the international community can best organize itself for environmental action. This Article proposes a classification of areas in which international environmental regulation is inevitable: activities physically affecting other states, activities affecting shared resources, and international regulation of national environmental standards. The author discusses the current law within these categories and urges that governments abandon their narrow, piecemeal approaches to the problem in favor of consolidating these areas of environmental regulation into an integrated framework. The United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, held during June in Stockholm, Sweden, represented the first serious attempt to cope with the environmental crisis on a global scale and stands to be the most important environmental event of 1972. This Article suggests a framework that might form the basis for future action.
24114604|In Kelo v. City of New London, the Supreme Court upheld the traditionally broad definition of "public use" and the use of judicial deference to legislative decisions to exercise the power of eminent domain. This holding was appropriate: governments at all levels need the flexibility to exercise the power of eminent domain in the face of changing social needs, without the judiciary second-guessing each decision. Political and fiscal limitations already constrain the exercise of eminent domain. At the same time, the Kelo decision may have opened the door to future changes in the level of judicial scrutiny applied in eminent domain decisions by implying that comprehensive planning could help justify a project. The immediate aftermath suggests that the Kelo decision may catalyze a dramatic change in property rights as state legislatures have acted quickly and decisively to limit the definition of public use. Thus the petitioners in Kelo may have lost the battle, but they seem to be winning the war as laws around the county change in the direction they sought.
44321183|In Wilderness Society v. Kane County, the Tenth Circuit held that The Wilderness Society, a nonprofit focused on preserving wilderness, did not have standing to sue the county for infringing on the federal government's property rights. The county asserted a right of way over the Grand Staircase Escalante National Monument and opened up that land to off-road vehicles in conflict with the Monument's management plan. The Tenth Circuit held that The Wilderness Society had run afoul of the prudential standing prohibition on third party standing because it was suing to enforce the federal government's property rights rather than its own. The issue of when an environmental organization has standing to represent the government's rights on public land deserves a deeper analysis than the court's brief summary. This Note will investigate the argument that The Wilderness Society and other environmental organizations can actually satisfy the requirements of third party standing to sue on the federal government's behalf for violations on the public land resulting in environmental harms. These requirements include a genuine hindrance to the right-holder bringing suit and a close relationship between the right-holder and the party bringing suit. The Note will consider these requirements in the context of Revised Statute 2477 claims and through violations of oil and gas leases and grazing permits on the federal public land. The Note will argue that, although courts may not find third party standing in all such situations, the issue deserves a thorough analysis when it is implicated.
24115001|In Summers v. Earth Island Institute, the Supreme Court held that an organizational plaintiff could not establish standing based on the likelihood of having among its members an injured individual. The standing requirement was not met until that individual and his or her injury were specifically identified. The move apparently reined in the development of "probabilistic" theories of injury. However, the concept of probabilistic injury has not been well defined, and consequently the case law and commentary on probabilistic injury suffer from imprecise and inconsistent reasoning. To clarify the doctrine, this Note proposes that probabilistic injury can be divided into three categories: "uncertain injury" cases, "uncertain plaintiff" cases, and "increased-risk-as-injury" cases. Reading Summers with these categories in mind permits a clearer picture of how Summers affects the concept of probabilistic standing. Summers restricts, or maintains the restrictions on, uncertain injury and uncertain plaintiff cases. Meanwhile, the theory of increased risk as injury survives Summers. Increased risk injuries should be recognized by the Court as cognizable injuries for standing purposes.This recognition is not only constitutionally permissible but also desirable to ensure that meritorious claims are not barred. Increased-risk-as-injury cases, which survive Summers, should continue to survive.
24115073|Since the inception of the Endangered Species Act, litigants from both sides of the political spectrum have challenged the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's critical habitat designations, with development interests typically arguing to limit the designation of critical habitat and environmental interests arguing to expand it. For much of the Act's history, the Fish and Wildlife Service and the courts linked protecting critical habitat to preventing the jeopardy or extinction of a species. Yet, even after multiple circuit courts of appeals invalidated this approach in favor of connecting critical habitat to the conservation or recovery of a species, the deficient status quo of preventing harm instead of promoting recovery endures. Arizona Cattle Growers is one example. At first glance Arizona Cattle Growers' Association v. Salazar, a recently decided Ninth Circuit case about the critical habitat designation of the Mexican spotted owl, appears to be just another addition to the litigious history of the Endangered Species Act. While the case may be counted as a conclusive victory for the environmental groups that intervened to ensure the preservation of the Mexican spotted owl's critical habitat, the focus of the court's discussion on whether the Fish and Wildlife Service designated unoccupied areas as occupied critical habitat highlights a less promising aspect of the decision: the ESA's ineffectiveness at promoting species recovery instead of merely preventing their extinction.
24113964|This Note describes the mobile source regulatory scheme under the Clean Air Act and examines two circuit court decisions addressing the issue of state adoption of zero emission vehicle (ZEV) sales mandates. The Note analyzes the very different approaches to the issue taken by the First and Second Circuits, including the First Circuit's use of the primary jurisdiction doctrine to remand the ZEV issue to EPA. The Note evaluates EPA's well-crafted response and concludes that the agency correctly maintained the underlying policy and balance of power established by Congress in the mobile source provisions of the Clean Air Act.
24114603|The federal government in late 1999 sued thirty-six electric power facilities to enforce several of the Clean Air Act's New Source Review (NSR) and New Source Performance Standard (NSPS) provisions. As these cases have slowly churned through the courts, the government has simultaneously tinkered with these rules through various rulemaking initiatives. Taken together, these actions have clouded the meaning of critical NSR and NSPS provisions, and generated many additional civil and legislative battles. This Article focuses on the U.S. Supreme Court's review of one such civil battlethe Fourth Circuit's decision in United States v. Duke Energy Corp. and EPA's subsequent rulemaking response. The Article first dissects the Fourth Circuit's opinion, argues that it was wrongly decided, and urges the U.S. Supreme Court to reach a different conclusion. Then, the Article outlines EPA's proposed regulatory solution to the Fourth Circuit's decision and proposes two vastly different regulatory responses. Unlike EPA's proposal, this Article's proposals unify the NSR and NSPS provisions and provide greater regulatory flexibility without significantly weakening the NSR program. Regardless of what the U.S. Supreme Court decides, this Article takes the position that Congress or EPA should adopt one of its proposals because the proposals ease industry burdens, provide greater environmental protection, and simplify the entire NSR and NSPS process.
24115040|The purpose of the federal Endangered Species Act (ESA) is to conserve and recover populations of endangered and threatened species to a point at which legal protection is no longer necessary. One of the main tools employed by the ESA to accomplish this goal is its section 7 consultation mandate, which ensures that federal agency actions do not "jeopardize the continued existence of" listed species, or destroy or adversely modify listed species' critical habitat. However, Congress's failure to define key concepts within the ESA, including jeopardy, recovery, and survival, as well as the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's (FWS) (collectively "Services") inconsistent interpretation of such directives, has led to a semantic conundrum as to what it means for a species to "recover" versus merely "survive" under the ESA. The Ninth Circuit's holding in National Wildlife Federation v. National Marine Fisheries Service (NWF) furthers an evolving trend by federal courts of requiring the Services to consider both recovery and survivability standards in their section 7 consultations. Most notably, the Ninth Circuit was the first federal appellate court to integrate a recovery standard into the jeopardy analysis prong of section 7, rather than solely focusing on the adverse modification consideration. This Note argues that as a result of the NWF decision, the Services' jeopardy analysis mandate under section 7 must incorporate a recovery standard rather than simply a survivability standard. Although the judiciary has not provided clear guidance on what a recovery standard entails, this Note proposes that a recovery standard ensures a much more rigorous form of protection and ultimately serves as a blueprint for the conservation of a species. Although the court in NWF held that NMFS's regulation requires analyses of the effects of proposed actions on recovery, the court did not address the question of whether the ESA itself requires the Services to consider both survival and recovery. As a result, it is now up to NMFS and FWS to determine how to move forward from the NWF decision. This Note attempts to provide an ecological and legal framework under which a sufficient recovery standard may be attained in future jeopardy analyses in order to achieve the ESA 's ultimate mandate of species recovery and conservation.
24114991|This Note addresses the potential for corruption in the emerging program to cut greenhouse gas emissions by averting deforestation. Reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation (REDD) was a main component of the bargain struck between major emitters at Copenhagen in December 2009. REDD has tremendous potential to engage developing nations in making meaningful reductions in greenhouse gas emissionsharvesting the world's forests generates 20 percent of annual global warming pollutionwhile simultaneously easing the path for Annex I states to meet their binding emissions commitments. Unfortunately, REDD's promise could also be derailed by graft and misaligned incentives, issues that have dogged the constituent pieces of a REDD program. The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), the major existing emissions offsets market, has come under fire for failing to promote real reductions in aggregate emissions while facilitating massive wealth transfers. Further, forestry management in the developing world has long been fraught with corruption. This Note takes up the challenges the CDM and forest agencies have faced, both to uncover the sobering difficulties awaiting REDD and to discern possible solutions to those vexing problems. It concludes by suggesting institutional design and enforcement measures to craft a system that is both corruption resistant and effective at delivering the significant climate and political benefits that REDD promises.
24114638|Perpetual conservation easements are intended to protect the particular land they encumber for the conservation purposes specified in the deed of conveyance "in perpetuity"or at least until circumstances have changed so profoundly that continued protection of the land for those purposes is no longer feasible. To protect the public interest and investment in perpetual conservation easements, and, at the same time, permit adjustments to be made to respond to changing conditions, such easements should be treated like any other form of charitable asset acquired by a government or charitable entity for a particular charitable purposei.e., as subject to equitable charitable trust principles. This Article outlines the considerable support for applying charitable trust principles to perpetual conservation easements, including uniform laws, the Restatement of Property, federal tax law, and case activity on this issue to date. This Article cautions that perpetual land protection is not appropriate in all circumstances and recommends a more considered use of perpetual conservation easements as a land protection tool. This Article also explores the possible use of a number of nonperpetual conservation easements to accomplish land protection goals.
24114131|In Gibbs v. Babbitt, the Fourth Circuit upheld the Endangered Species Act's take provision against a Commerce Clause challenge. The court found that federal regulation of the take of red wolves on private land was consistent with the precedents set by the Supreme Court in U.S. v. Lopez and U.S. v. Morrison and described a range of ways in which endangered species may be connected to interstate commerce. While connections between wolves and commerce were particularly strong, Gibbs, in combination with several other similar cases, may signal that Congress' Commerce Clause power allows regulation of all take of endangered species.
24114274|In 2001, the California legislature passed AB-1493, a law requiring substantial reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from cars and trucks. AB-1493 is the latest in California's long history of pioneering regulations to reduce motor vehicle emissions, a leadership role that Congress encouraged by granting California a unique waiver to the Clean Air Act's preemption of state vehicle emissions laws. Yet automakers intend to challenge AB-1493 as preempted by the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA). EPCA sets federal fuel economy standards and preempts state fuel economy regulations with no exception for California. Even though reducing vehicular GHGs will likely affect fuel economy, this Comment argues that AB-1493 should be upheld against an EPCA preemption challenge. Because every California emissions law has some impact on fuel economy, there is no logical way to apply EPCA preemption to California without eliminating California's CAA flexibility to pass its own emissions laws. Constricting California's autonomy would directly conflict with Congress's intent and would impede the kind of state innovation that should be favored by an administration and a Supreme Court friendly to federalism.
24112345|The state of Oregon recently enacted legislation that requires deposits on nonreturnable beverage containers and bans containers with disposable pop-tops. The beverage industry immediately challenged the statute's constitutionality on, inter alia, commerce clause, due process, and equal protection grounds. In American Can Co. v. Oregon Liquor Control Commission, the legislation was held constitutional. After discussing the mechanics of the bill, this Note examines the validity of the constitutional challenges, and concludes with an application of a commerce clause balancing test to the Oregon statute.
24113732|The 2001 Forest Service Roadless Area Conservation Rule (Roadless Rule) prohibits road construction, reconstruction, and timber harvest on approximately one-third of National Forest System lands. In 2011, the Tenth Circuit upheld the Roadless Rule in Wyoming v. USDA after a decade of litigation. Subsequently, in October 2012, the Supreme Court refused to take up challenges to the Tenth Circuit's ruling. Given the Forest Service's new focus on managing for climate change and the importance of Inventoried Roadless Areas (IRAs) protected by the Roadless Rule, this Note examines whether management for climate change adaptation and mitigation is feasible, necessary, and defensible in IRAs. As background, Parts I and II describe the history and terms of the Roadless Rule and the projected effects of climate change on forest ecosystems. This Note explains the benefits of purely passive management of IRAs in light of climate change effects and discusses arguments against active management in IRAs, but because the Rule explicitly allows some level of active management in IRAs, Part III summarizes the relevant scientific literature on climate change mitigation and adaptation strategies that may be extended to IRAs. Part IV examines the Rule's language, the case law, and the Forest Service's statutory framework to analyze the extent to which the Agency may implement active management in IRAs, including strategies that do not adhere to historical conditions. This Note concludes that: 1) if the Agency seeks to actively manage IRAs, it needs a comprehensive set of criteria for prioritizing roadless areas for climate change mitigation and adaptation treatments, and 2) the Agency may benefit from modifying the Rule's language if it deems that management outside of the historical range of variability is necessary.
24113685|Unlike other natural resources, water is generally priced at cost, rather than at a market rate. Indeed, in California, the state's constitution mandates "at cost" water pricing. Under a 1996 initiative known as Proposition 218, municipally owned water suppliers may not allow water rates to exceed the proportional cost of delivering water to a particular parcel. "At cost" water pricing, however, fails to communicate water's real value to consumers. For example, since it often costs water suppliers the same amount to deliver available water during a drought as during more abundant times, consumers do not receive pricing signals about water's relative scarcity in a given year. Overall, "at cost" pricing leads to waste, unnecessary environmental degradation, and inefficient allocation among competing uses. Water suppliers, however, can send consumers pricing signals, consistent with Proposition 218, by broadening the notion of "costs" beyond the traditional financial costs incurred for water system infrastructure and operations. At a minimum, "at cost" pricing should include a charge to represent the costs of avoiding, mitigating, or restoring environmental impacts. Beyond the minimum, it could include a charge to reflect the opportunity costs of using the public's resources. In effect, "at cost" pricing should include a charge to represent the value of the use of the public's "natural capital." While such an expanded notion of "cost" should apply across the country, it is particularly germane to California. Under California's "public trust" doctrine, water suppliers have an affirmative duty to protect public values in watercourses "wherever feasible. " This Article explores the interplay between California's "at cost" pricing restrictions and the public trust doctrine. It concludes that an expanded notion of "at cost" pricing is both compatible with Proposition 218 and mandated by the public trust doctrine.
24113731|For nearly forty years, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps ' of Engineers have relied heavily on administrative compliance orders to enforce the Clean Water Act (CWA). The Supreme Court's decision in Sackett v. Environmental Protection Agency will likely affect drastic changes in this traditional enforcement strategy. Contrary to the unanimous consensus of federal courts, Sackett decided that compliance orders issued by the EPA under the CWA are subject to judicial review on the underlying question of jurisdiction even before EPA brings an enforcement action. Even this narrow holding is a dramatic departure from decades of CWA enforcement. Moreover, it is unclear from Sackett whether the opinion's effect will remain so narrow or whether every compliance order issued by the Agency under the CWA faces the specter of pre-enforcement judicial review. This Note argues that federal courts should take a narrow reading of Sackett and limit pre-enforcement judicial review of compliance orders to the special issue of establishing CWA jurisdiction. Only a narrow interpretation of Sackett will allow federal courts to avoid the unfortunate ecological consequences of the Court's hostility to water quality regulation.
44321180|At its crux, environmental law is about forcing potential polluters to act in ways they would not otherwise. To do this, environmental law attempts to make noncompliance more costly than compliance. Without doing so, potential polluters would pollute regardless of its legality, a theory known as efficient breach of public law. Academics and judges alike have increasingly accepted this theory, resulting in courts struggling to prevent efficient breaches. But that has proven a difficult task. In Pakootas v. Teck Cominco Ltd., the Ninth Circuit sought to prevent efficient breach by barring citizen suits to enforce Environmental Protection Agency penalties, thereby concentrating enforcement power in the Environmental Protection Agency. This Note argues, however, that the Ninth Circuit ruling will generally make efficient breach more likely, even if it ensured compliance in Pakootas v. Teck Cominco Ltd The Environmental Protection Agency has repeatedly failed to protect the environment due to lack of oversight, a lack of resources, or a lack of desire. Citizen suits are powerful tools to counteract the Environmental Protection Agency's failure and should not be uniformly discarded. Contrary to the Ninth Circuit's rule, I argue for a case-by-case approach to determine whether a citizen suit for Environmental Protection Agency penalties would increase or decrease the likelihood of compliance in each particular case. Even beyond the realm of citizen suits, environmental protection powers should be broadly shared among potential enforcers, including the Environmental Protection Agency, citizens, states, and Native American tribes, so that the probability of paying for pollution and the cost of noncompliance both rise.
24111394|Frequently legislation creating government agencies is narrow in purpose and may exclude environmental considerations. Moreover, many government agencies have become sympathetic with the goals of the industries that they regulate. Using the AEC as his example, the author shows how hearings tend to exclude considerations of public interest unless they are vigorously asserted by citizens as intervenors: the agency's restrictive rules may make a traditional victory for the intervenor nearly impossible. Inaction, however, is not the answer. Even though an excellent environmental claim can be shattered in the agency proceedings because of the heavy agency bias for industry, the environmentalist intervenor can use the agency procedure for the benefits he can reap from it, namely, education of the public and consequent public support.
24113619|Before the nuclear core meltdowns at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear reactors in Japan restoked public anxiety about nuclear energy, Vermont's Senate used Vermont Act No. 160 to vote to block continued operation of the Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant after the expiration of its forty-year operating license. This Article examines whether a state can legislatively override a permit issued by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission extending the license of a power plant. The author places this question within a broader federalism contextone where states assert their sovereign rights to regulate the environment in the shadow of federal mandates. She finds the absence of language mandating the use of nuclear power and of an express preemption provision in the Atomic Energy Act persuasive of a lack of preemption for a state's legislative override of this type of permit. Equally convincing is the Atomic Energy Act's reservation of state authority over the generation, sale, and transmission of energy produced by nuclear power plants, and the passage of environmental laws giving states regulatory authority over some aspects of nuclear power plant operation. Additionally, the author argues that policy arguments favoring preemption, such as the need for uniformity and coordination of shared resources, superior federal resources and technical knowledge, and prevention of spillover effects do not apply to this situation; while arguments against preemption, such as preserving states as robust centers of governance and regulatory experimentation and as checks on federal government excesses and errors, and avoiding regulatory gaps and regulatory capture, do apply here. Even collective action problems, which often favor preemption, are weak. The argument that Vermont's initiative may derail recent national efforts to "restart" the nuclear power industry as a way to reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil and its global carbon footprint also fails as applied to Vermont's legislation. Thus, the author concludes that Vermont Act No. 160 should withstand a preemption challenge.
24113684|The Dietary Guidelines for Americans, and all federal programs and activities that flow from them (for example, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children, and the National School Lunch Program), should integrate environmental sustainability considerations into policy development and on-the-ground implementation. While federal dietary advice is nonbinding on the American public, it is a policy vehicle intended to have specific, significant effects on the food choices of several hundred million people. These effects translate into significant foreseeable environmental impacts that should be taken into consideration under the National Environmental Policy Act in deciding what advice to give and precisely how to frame it. Currently, this does not happen, and the result is nutritional recommendations that are blindered to their actual impacts. For example, the 2010 Guidelines recommend that Americans more than double their average intake of seafood but fail to include guidance aboutor even to acknowledgethe relative environmental impacts of different seafood choices. This is both irresponsible and, in the slightly longer term, self-defeating: Overfishing and habitat destruction today contribute to seafood scarcity and food insecurity tomorrow. We cannot afford to continue to ignore the unintended environmental consequences of federal dietary advice.
24111396|Private citizen control over the quality of his own and his childrens' lives is a truly democratic goalone not yet achieved with respect to the citizen's opportunities to protect and preserve the environment. Paradoxically, private citizen litigation to promote environmental quality is virtually unavailable at a time when environmental protection is critical and citizen interest is at its peak. This Comment argues that the traditional barriers to private citizen standing should no longer prevent citizens from suing on behalf of the public interest in the environment. It offers a complete analysis of the need and precedent for, and objections to Congressional adoption of Senate Bill No. 1032, a proposal designed to expand the role of citizens, courts, and legislatures in solving the country's environmental problems.
24114134|In 1999, Australia and New Zealand sued Japan for its overfishing of the southern bluefin tuna, in violation of the Convention for the Conservation of Southern Bluefin Tuna (CCSBT) and the United Nations Convention for the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). The International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS), in the first case of this kind, found for Australia and New Zealand and issued protective provisional measures while an ad hoc arbitral tribunal was formed. The arbitral tribunal, however, found it and ITLOS lacked jurisdiction as the case fell primarily under the CCSBT, to the exclusion of UNCLOS. The decision strikes a blow to the environmental movement, as well as throws the compulsory jurisdiction of the United Nations Convention for the Law of the Sea into jeopardy.
44321181|In April 2011, Congress passed a rider ordering the Fish and Wildlife Service to reissue a rule removing the gray wolf in Montana and Idaho, overturning an earlier court decision invalidating the rule. The rider was part of a wider effort by conservative lawmakers to reduce the protections that the Endangered Species Act affords to species whose continued survival is in doubt. While the biological justification for the delisting is debatable, the rider revealed a weakness of the Endangered Species Act: limited state participation in endangered species management reduces its political popularity, leaving it open to challenges and possibly harming conservation outcomes. While certain programs for state involvement have been implemented by the Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service, section 6 of the Endangered Species Act provides for more robust state authority in endangered species management. After discussing the history of the gray wolf in the Northern Rocky Mountains, this Note asserts that fuller utilization of section 6 to increase state involvement in endangered species management would increase political favor ability of the Endangered Species Act and thereby improve conservation outcomes. The Note then considers how a fuller use of section 6 could have affected the gray wolf in the Northern Rockies.
24111378|The Wilderness Act of 1964 was an important achievement in a lengthy national campaign to preserve open space. The Act set forth a procedure whereby existing government agencies would review primitive areas for recommendation as permanent wilderness. In Parker v. United States, a citizens' group successfully challenged a Forest Service decision to permit a lumber harvest on the grounds that it would have permanently destroyed the primitive character of the area. This Note discusses the provisions of the Wilderness Act, the implications of the Parker decision, the Forest Service's interpretation of Parker, and the need for further legislative action.
24111397|Capitalist economics rely upon corporations as a means of allocating resources. Factories, products, and developments that pollute our environment are the result of this process. Restrictions upon corporate conduct can control a major portion of society's environmental ills. Furthermore, these restrictions can be imposed expediently by concerned courts without the necessity of cumbersome legislative processes. Courts can utilize their common law powers over corporate fiduciary duties to create duties of social responsibility, and such duties can be enforced through the writ of quo warranto.
24111338|The increasing concern for protection of the environment from marine oil pollution has resulted in international, federal, and state action on the subject. But in American Waterways, a Florida statute was held invalid due to the requirement of uniformity in maritime law. This Article criticizes that decision, arguing that the uniformity principle is not constitutionally mandated. Other challenges to the statutethat it violates the commerce clause, or is preempted by the Federal Water Quality Improvement Actare also discussed. The author concludes that the preventive provisions of the statute should be upheld by the Supreme Court when it hears the case.
24114636|The holding of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in American Pelagic Fishing Co. v. United States points to the conclusion that the government will almost never be liable, under the Takings Clause, when fisheries regulations reduce the value of commercial fishing permits, vessels, or gear. From the perspective of natural resource economics, this is a healthy result. Economists suggest that solving commons problems requires that natural resources be under the complete control of a sole owner who makes self-interested decisions about resource use, and if the Fifth Amendment required the government owner to compensate fishermen when it tightened regulations, it would hamper the government's ability to regulate optimally. One problem with the economic theory of commons solution, however, is that it does not distinguish between sole private ownership and sole government ownership in terms of their application. In this Article, I argue that government ownership is fraught with problems that do not occur in the private ownership context. To the extent that government resource owners rely on entrepreneurs to capture and sell natural resources, the government must play two roles: regulator and facilitator. These roles frequently come into conflict, inevitably compromising the effectiveness of regulation. Furthermore, entrepreneurs have incentives to lobby against long-term conservation. The poor condition of United States fisheries is proof that these two problemsgovernment's dual role and fishermen's lobbyingare preventing the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act from achieving its goal of sustainable fisheries. Until the Act is changed to reduce both fishermen s incentive to lobby against conservation and the likelihood that regulators will accede to their demands, it will probably not succeed.
24115075|Environmental statutes frequently include criminal provisions as a means of enforcing their regulations. However, these provisions often include little if any mens rea requirement. As with any form of criminal liability that approaches strict liability, courts must therefore somehow insure that convictions satisfy constitutional due process concerns. During the last century, and accompanying the rise of regulatory statutes, the court developed the public welfare doctrine as a method of justifying the lack of a mens rea requirement for certain types of crimes. These crimes, known as public welfare offenses, involve regulations so potentially dangerous to public health and safety that the court was willing to presume that the allegedly criminal actor had knowledge of his wrongdoing, thus satisfying due process. United States v. Apollo Energies, Inc.'s interpretation of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act demonstrates another method of ensuring due process despite the lack of a mens rea requirement. While these crimes do not fall under the coverage of the traditional public welfare doctrine, the Tenth Circuit borrowed several elements of the traditional doctrine, including foreseeability of regulation and of harm. The Tenth Circuit's willingness to use these elements outside of the public welfare setting illuminates when courts might find liability for future environmental regulatory crimes.
24113973|This Note argues that in Environmental Defense Fund v. Environmental Protection Agency, the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit correctly overturned a set of EPA regulations that undermined the conformity provision of the 1990 Clean Air Act (CAA). The Note explores the policy implications of rigorous enforcement of the 1990 CAA conformity requirement combined with complementary changes in federal transportation law under the Intermodal Surface Transportation and Efficiency Act (ISTEA). The newly created Georgia Regional Transportation Authority (GRTA) is discussed as a case study of the type of regional planning innovation "catalyzed" by conformity. The Note concludes that conformity and ISTEA are encouraging much-needed institutional changes at the state and regional level.
24114621|Today, federal environmental policy is experiencing two separate yet related crises. The first is a legal crisis wherein the constitutional foundation of such policy is being brought into question and challenged before an increasingly conservative bench sympathetic to such challenges. The second is an ethical crisis wherein present-day federal environmental policy, built upon the Commerce Clause, fails to properly express the environmental ethic that that policy seeks to embody. These two crises each independently commend a constitutional amendment to empower Congress to directly preserve, protect, and promote the environment. Taken together, they render undeniable the need for such an amendment, which, given its structure, content, and broad public acceptance, stands a good chance at ratification.
24112695|Lake Tahoe's natural attributesthe lake and the surrounding Sierrasand its artificial attributegamblingattract numerous vacationers the year around. This influx has created a threat to the lake's purity and clarity which, in turn, has provoked extensive public response. Professor Ayer analyzes the threats of sewage, sedimentation, solid waste, fertilizer, and shoreline construction and describes the legal and extra-legal responses of the private and governmental institutions involved. He concludes that while not all of the problems have been permanently solved, and while the costs have been high, the lake has been kept fairly clean. As a chronicle of some successful and some not so successful approaches and solutions, his analysis should prove useful in the continuing effort to save our natural resources.
44321157|In Crown Point Development, Inc. v. City of Sun Valley, the Ninth Circuit removed a bar to bringing substantive due process land use claims before the court. Despite this development, substantive due process claims in the land use context remain largely unavailable at the federal level. This Note examines the historical and continued resistance to substantive due process at the federal level and argues that two major obstacles facilitate deference to local government decision making. Given trends of a decreasing scrutiny of such claims at the state level, this Note argues that statutory changes could strengthen safeguards against arbitrary and irrational decision making in land use decisions.
24113987|Provisions of the Endangered Species Act have come under attack by critics who believe that Congress overstepped its constitutional authority. Because underlying treaties do not support the view that the Endangered Species Act can be justified under the Treaty Power, the vitality of the Act rests on the Commerce Clause. The combination of the commercial importance of biological diversity and federalism concerns counsels against finding that any provisions of the Endangered Species Act are unconstitutional. In order to ensure that courts will arrive at this conclusion, Congress should modify the language defining the findings and purpose of the Act to clarify the connections with the Endangered Species Act's connection to commerce.
24114593|Privatization of traditionally governmental functions, from police work to education, has been a contentious topic in recent years. Popular debates treating the decision as all-or-nothing overlook the plethora of extant models of privatization that depart from the familiar paradigms of contracting out or selling assets entirely. This Comment examines one such under-the-radar model in the context of environmental regulation, both to highlight an approach that deserves attention and to show the connection between an initiative's design and its results. The model, which this Comment nicknames "rent-a-regulator," transfers regulatory decisionmaking to licensed professionals who directly serve regulated "clients." Rather than contracting out regulatory functions or privatizing them entirely, the government licenses professionals, just as it would doctors or plumbers, to make compliance decisions. A case study of Massachusetts' program reveals systematic regulatory violations in this system. At the same time, it suggests that the program's failings are likely due to specific structural shortcomings, such that the program might be redesigned rather than abandoned. Careful attention to design and structure thus helps establish middle ground between privatization supporters and opponents. Refining existing privatization strategies may provide the most promising way forward.
24112382|The urban environment is presently an "unchartered wilderness in the field of environmental protection." Few attempts have been made to identify, evaluate, or quantify urban factors which should be subject to environmental review during the approval process for public and private development. This Comment focuses on on aspect of this problem, urban design regulation, in reference to one city's attempt to establish sound environmental planning policies. After discussing the attributes of the new urban design component of San Francisco's master plan, the author turns to the perennial legal problem of how a city translates lofty policy statements of general plans into ordinances and regulatory controls. Specific attention is given to implementation efforts involving administrative planning procedures, zoning, and regulation of aesthetic factors in development. This case study of San Francisco's recent experience indicates that full achievement of the Urban Design Plan's goals will require formal and informal actions within the planning process, effective application of the state environmental quality act, and appropriate invocation of judicial review.
24112431|Few government activities have as many environmental ramifications as the construction of freeways. It is thus not surprising that the largest number of impact statements filed under NEPA since 1970 have issued from the Department of Transportation, and that highway cases predominate amongst the reported judicial decisions construing NEPA. Highway opponents have recently broadened their attacks by including allegations under state environmental protection statutes, the Federal-Aid Highway Act, and the Uniform Relocation Act. The court in Keith v. Volpe was the first to confront each of these issues in a freeway suit. This Note analyzes the lengthy court opinion in that case. After explicating the significant issues raised under the governing statutes, the author examines the standards used by the court to resolve each conflict with a view towards assessing their viability in future freeway litigation.
44321177|Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations produce a large portion of the United States animal-based food supply at an arguably low price. However, Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations produce incredible amounts of manure that, if mismanaged, can end up in our drinking water, thereby harming humans and animals alike. While the Environmental Protection Agency has authority to regulate Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations' discharges under the Clean Water Act, it has yet to promulgate regulations that successfully prevent pollution from entering our navigable waters. Instead, the agency has been embroiled in litigation since the late 1980s, culminating in the most recent case in this saga: National Pork Producers v. Environmental Protection Agency. Since 1989, the Environmental Protection Agency has promulgated two sets of Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations regulations, both of which have been struck down by the courts. At the same time, the political climate has become increasingly hostile toward the agency. Additionally, the Environmental Protection Agency does not have complete information on Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations in the United States. As a result, its enforcement of Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations Clean Water Act violations has varied from state to state. In the face of all these challenges, I propose a new approach: the Environmental Protection Agency should first collect information on Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations in the United States, organize this information by watershed area, select the worst offenders, and then pursue enforcement actions against them using the Clinton Administration's 1999 Clean Air Act New Source Review litigation as a model This process will help establish a more effective national enforcement strategy to reduce ongoing Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations Clean Water Act violations.
24115309|The California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 (AB 32) commits California to reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. The transportation sector is the top GHG emitter in California, contributing roughly 40 percent of all California emissions. Poor fuel efficiency and high vehicle miles traveled (VMT) are primary contributors to transportation sector GHG emissions. Meeting California's GHG emissions reduction goals requires reductions in both per-mile emissions and vehicle miles traveled. Fuel efficiency has been addressed historically by federal Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards, and California has passed its own legislation regulating GHG emissions from vehicles. Vehicle miles traveled, however, have historically not received legislative attention, and have been growing at a much faster rate than population or the economy. There is consequently a "VMT gap" in the current regulatory structure for GHG emissions reductions envisioned under AB 32. This Article addresses how AB 32 's developing market-based GHG emissions reduction policy, allowing for carbon offsets, could interact with implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) to support emissions reductions from transportation-related land use projects. Allowing carbon offsets for CEQA land use projects requires the California Air Resources Board (CARB) to acknowledge that the degree of GHG mitigation required for transportationrelated land use projects is discretionary under the CEQA process; otherwise, CARB would face the legal conundrum of allowing industry to claim offset credits for mitigation considered compulsory under a separate legal statute. Carbon offsets for CEQA mitigation should be recognized as being additional to emissions reductions that would otherwise take place without offset investment dollars. This is because significant land use changes are necessary to meet California's long-term GHG reduction goals and it should be a legal priority to facilitate these changes. This outcome would be most consistent with the existing CEQA regime and would increase incentives and funding available to implement GHG emissions reductions from land use-related projects. Further, we recommend that a regional transportation authority (also known as a Metropolitan Planning Organization or MPO)the same agency charged with modeling the impacts of future development plans on GHG emissions under recent legislation designed to address vehicle miles traveled (under SB 375)facilitate quality offset projects and coordinate offset investment dollars for CEQA mitigation. We argue that such a carbon offset program under AB 32 will prove to be more significant than SB 375 in addressing vehicle miles traveled by promoting increased investments in transportation-related land use projects.
24114765|Property law regimes have a significant impact on the ability of individuals to engage in freedom of expression. Some property rules advance freedom of expression, and other rules retard freedom of expression. This Article examines the inhibiting effects on expression of public land use regulations. The focus is on two types of aesthetic regulations: (1) landscape regulations, including weed ordinances, that regulate yards; and (2) architectural regulations that regulate the exterior appearance of houses. Such regulations sometimes go too far in curtailing a homeowner's freedom of expression. Property owners' expressive conduct should be recognized as "symbolic speech" under the First Amendment. The Supreme Court developed the symbolic speech doctrine in contexts other than land use, but the rationale for the doctrine supports its extension to aesthetically based land use regulations. The clearest case of protected speech is a homeowner's conduct that conveys a political message, such as a yard display that protests a decision made by a local government. Other conduct, however, that is nonpolitical in nature can convey a particularized message, and thus can merit First Amendment protection. Examples are a homeowner's decision to plant natural landscaping, motivated by ecological concerns, or to install a nativity scene at Christmas. A regulation that restricts an owner's protected speech is unconstitutional unless the government proves both that the regulation is narrowly tailored and that it protects a substantial public interest. If the public interest is solely based on the protection of aesthetic values, ordinarily it is not substantial enough to justify the restriction on speech. The government must come up with a plausible justification other than aesthetics to prevail. When the justification consists of an interest in addition to aesthetics, the balancing rules developed by the Supreme Court for symbolic speech should apply. If the regulation restricts expressive conduct, it may survive scrutiny only if it protects the community from conduct that causes significant economic or other non-aesthetic harm, while minimizing infringement on expression.
44321182|The 2012 presidential nomination process highlights a widespread perception among presidential candidates, congressional leaders, legislative advocacy groups, and regulated industries that the Environmental Protection Agency is overly aggressive with its regulations, causing serious economic harm. Examining recent federal appellate decisions involving challenges to Environmental Protection Agency regulations reveals a much different picture. Courts often strike down Environmental Protection Agency regulations, but not because those regulations go too far. Rather, in the vast majority of cases, courts have found Environmental Protection Agency regulations did not go far enough in regulating activity for which Congress had mandated more vigorous regulation. Thus, the common perception that the Environmental Protection Agency is overregulating is largely a counterfactual narrative.
24114543|The National Research Council's 2002 "Interim Report on Endangered and Threatened Fishes in the Klamath River Basin" and 2004 "Endangered and Threatened Fishes in the Klamath River Basin: Causes of Decline and Strategies for Recovery" have become the collective cornerstone of what is arguably the most controversial scenario in the history of the Endangered Species Act. The Klamath Project, a federal irrigation venture that conflicts with the needs of three threatened or endangered species of fish in the upper Klamath Basin, is now the poster child for a congressional movement to reform the Endangered Species Act. This movement has acquired much of its perceived validity from misinformed interpretations of the two National Research Council reports  interpretations which the National Research Council has not challenged. To alleviate some of the confusion surrounding the reports, this Comment provides a basic introduction to the scientific method, engages in a review of the analytical process that the National Research Council used, accounts for several key sources of scientific uncertainty in the Klamath Basin, and remarks on the potential effects of the so-called "Endangered Species Data Quality Act of 2004." In particular, the Comment demonstrates why there is little evidence to suggest the Klamath Project is harming listed fishes, but even less evidence to suggest that it is not. And, it explains how the orthodox standards of scientific peer review can be, sensu stricto, incompatible with the proactive objectives of the Endangered Species Act.
24114512|On the fortieth anniversary of the Wilderness Act, the Supreme Court refused to enforce a statute that sought to protect the wilderness qualities of public lands. Recognizing the intrinsic value of wilderness, Congress ordered the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to prevent impairment to lands awaiting wilderness designation. In Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, citizen groups challenged BLM's failure to prevent off-road vehicle damage to public lands. In a unanimous opinion, the Supreme Court declared the case unreviewable. The decision expanded unreviewability doctrine under the Administrative Procedure Act and presented a setback for environmental protection. The Court also limited citizen enforcement of environmental laws and restricted supplemental environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act. Meanwhile, wilderness destruction continues, thus undermining congressional intent to preserve wilderness.
24112342|Solutions to air polluction problems in metropolitan areas are often frustrated by the competing and conflicting interests of the political subdivisions within those areas. These conflicts are exacerbated when the urban region includes more than one state. In this Article, the author suggests that regional agencies must be established to deal with regional environmental problems and that the interstate compact device should be employed in the multistate, metropolitan setting. In noting both the advantages and disadvantages of the interstate compact, the author reviews the history of the device, analyzes deficiencies that frequently have prevented such compacts from operating successfully, and suggests remedies for those deficiencies. The Article concludes with a detailed model for an interstate compact capable of dealing with multistate, metropolitan air pollution problems.
44321075|Water transfers, the human-induced movement of water from one place to another, have historically sustained development of vast areas of otherwise uninhabitable land in the western United States, and have recently become a popularmethodfor alleviating water allocation problems and scarcity in the eastern United States. As demands on water resources continue to grow, however, critical questions have arisen regarding how best to provide adequate water quantity while preserving water quality. On June 7, 2006, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) published its National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Water Transfers Proposed Rule. The proposed rule codified the Agency's position that the NPDES provision of the Clean Water Act (CWA) is inapplicable to water transfers, and that the movement of water during the transfer does not constitute an "addition" of a pollutant under the CWA, even when the source water contains pollutants the receiving water does not. The EPA asserts that its proposed rule will facilitate the implementation of water transfers by exempting them from certain requirements under the Clean Water Act. The proposed rule was a response to the 2004 Supreme Court decision, South Florida Water Management District v. Miccosukee Tribe of Indians, wherein the Court left open the critical question of whether a permit would be required when a water transfer results in the addition of pollutants into the receiving water. To explore the context and evaluate the implications of the proposed rule, this Comment examines the development of water transfer case law preceding the rule, analyzes the proposed rule in light of this precedent and the Miccosukee case, and evaluates its viability based on the plain meaning of applicable CWA provisions, statutory construction, and congressional intent.
24114257|For the first time, plaintiffs used EPA regulations that prohibit disparate impact discrimination to block the siting of a pollutant-producing facility in an environmentally burdened, minority community. In a ruling with the potential to radically alter the way in which siting decisions are made in this country, a federal district court in New Jersey found for the South Camden plaintiffsdespite the fact that the facility would have complied with the applicable environmental standards. While the Supreme Court eliminated the cause of action under which the plaintiffs had proceeded, the district court subsequently allowed the plaintiffs to proceed under a different cause of action. In the most important civil rights case of the past year, the Third Circuit reversed, holding that agency regulations alone could not create rights enforceable under Section 1983. The South Camden litigation curbs effective enforcement of civil rights law, leaves state programs free to violate federal funding conditions, and, in some circuits, leaves prospective environmental justice plaintiffs unable to remedy a violation of their right to be free from disparate impact discrimination.
24114329|This article critiques the Court's attempt to cabin the Lucas "per se" takings rule by limiting it to real property. It argues that the distinction between real and personal property cannot be justified by history or the differing expectations of property owners. It then applies five theoretical frameworks (libertarian, personhood, utilitarian, public choice, and Thomistic-Aristotelian natural law) and finds that none of them supports the jurisprudential distinction between real and personal property. As a result, the article argues that "because the distinction between personal and real property is an unprincipled one, it cannot save the Court from the unpalatable implications of its Lucas holding for broader economic legislation." While acknowledging the rationale for the Court's attempt to create a bright line rule in the area of regulatory takings, Pealver concludes that this is an area of law that is "unsuitable for such inflexible standards."
24114302|United States v. Shell Oil Company sheds new light on the courts' interpretation of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). In this war pollution case, the Ninth Circuit clarified the scope of the statute's sovereign immunity provision. Moreover, the court, for the first time, analyzed the arranger liability provision as applied to the federal government in a war pollution context, and defined the meaning of the act of war defense. Despite its significant contributions to the courts' understanding of CERCLA, however, the court falls short of drawing a bright line for the government's arranger liability, and thus, the ambiguity surrounding this provision remains unresolved after this case.
24114960|Almost half the U.S. states have begun to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases and global warming, given that the federal government has not acted. However, these leading states are implementing carbon regulatory measures that, if challenged, may be found to violate the Supremacy Clause and/or Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution. If so, these state initiatives, as the lead edge of U.S. policy on global warming, will require time-consuming legal revisions that could affect fundamental allowance allocation in lieu of auction, use of government garnered revenues from state carbon restrictions, and the degree to which states can change wholesale generation prices using carbon regulations as a means to alter the power generation queue and profile. This issue is so important from both an environmental and energy perspective that it is imperative that care is used initially to sculpt a legally sustainable regulatory regime. This Article examines these constitutional issues, focusing on the legal initiatives regarding carbon of the leading ten East Coast states and the State of California.
24113484|The water resources of the American Westespecially the Southwestare at risk from climate change, as an already arid region grows even drier, warmer, and more prone to drought. The dual threat of drought and climate change is a particular challenge for the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (USBR), which operates hundreds of federal water projects throughout the region. USBR has some authority to deal with these problems under the 2009 SECURE Water Act (for climate change) and the 1992 Drought Relief Act (for drought). This Article considers USBR's climate change and drought programs, examining both the authorities and the implementation. It concludes with recommendations on how USBR could better use the Drought Relief Act to help reduce the impacts of future water shortages.
24111395|Wildlife is one of our most precious resources. Although men usually cherish exotic, endangered species as a source of wonder and delight, many of these species are essential to the continued balance and survival of the world's ecosystems. As a resource, wildlife is more vulnerable than most, for once a species disappears from the earth it is irretrievably lost. Man's blunders and wanton destruction have already wiped out an alarming number of species and more will follow them unless immediate corrective measures are taken. This Comment, after reviewing the dimensions of the problem, examines past, present and possible future legislative solutions to the problem of endangered species and appraises current efforts at international cooperation in this sensitive field.
24111340|Sierra Club v. Morton is a landmark case in the conservation field, but it presents much broader problems than the legal issues before the courts. This Comment explores the history of the decision to develop the Mineral King Valley to determine the nature of the administrative decison-making process and its inadequate reflection of a diversity of public interests. The structure of the Forest Service is laid out as a framework for understanding how the decision to develop was made. The Comment discusses improvements in the decision-making process that could be made to allow for a cross-section of public input. It then analyzes the legal issues presented by the Sierra Club and argues that judicial review is inadequate to reach the policy issues involved in the decision to develop. To remedy this, it concludes that the Forest Service administration must be opened to full public input and review at the crucial stages in the decision-making process.
24114282|We made from water every living thing. This Comment explores the content, legal forms, and implications of recognizing an international human right to water. The concept of water as a human right developed from the recognition that treating the right to water as an economic good may result in an affordability problem for some communities, depriving them of access to water. To counter these effects, a human right to water is being developed. This human right to water, though not fully defined by existing international law or practice, has been protected as necessary to secure other human rights, such as those to health, well being, and life. Given the structure of international law, State obligations depend upon which human right a right to water is found to support or whether such a human right to water is ultimately found to be a separate and independent human right from other recognized human rights. Whether a human right to water is ultimately established as a right subordinate to other human rights or as an independent human right, recognition of a human right to water will have far-reaching effects. This Comment analyzes legal developments in South Africa, India, and Argentina to illustrate some of the ways in which States have implemented a legal right to water. The Comment then identifies some of the key challenges and development constraints in ensuring a right to safe water within reasonable distance for all persons. These challenges include modifying riparian and prior-appropriation systems of water rights, defining and limiting impacts upon other legal doctrines, and making economic adjustments associated with providing water to meet the "basic needs" of all persons. The Comment concludes that while recognition of a human right to water is necessary, its implementation is fraught with difficulties.
24114747|In Citizens Coal Council v. EPA, an en banc panel for the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals considered a challenge to EPA regulations promulgated pursuant to the Clean Water Act (CWA). The EPA promulgated the regulations in an attempt to incentivize coal companies to remine once abandoned mine sites. Petitioners, two nonprofit environmental organizations, claimed that the regulations violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedure Act by allowing coal companies to remine without adhering to any enforceable pollution limitations. The EPA countered that more remining would improve water quality at abandoned sites. The Sixth Circuit rejected Petitioners' claims, finding that the EPA's regulations were reasonably consistent with the CWA's goal of restoring the integrity of the nation's waters. In so holding, the court struggled to understand the meaning of the CWA's complex procedural and technical language, and allowed the EPA to justify the rule based on the CWA's broad statement of purpose. Such superficial judicial review sets a dangerous precedent in environmental law, because it exacerbates the risk of agency capture. A captured agency promulgates regulations that benefit industry, not the environment. Without the judiciary acting as a meaningful check against agency capture, the public loses a valuable tool in the fight against major industrial polluters like the domestic coal industry. Citizens Coal Council therefore stands as a cautionary tale, a warning sign that the judiciary may be unable to identify agency capture where the regulations at issue are promulgated pursuant to a complex statute like the Clean Water Act.
24111284|By virtue of their sovereign or quasi-sovereign status, states have the potential to play an active and influential role in the current campaign against environmental degradation. A state may bring an action as parens patriae in federal court against another state or party outside its jurisdiction to enforce its right to be free from pollution from sources outside its boundaries. The concept of such a "state's right" has until recently received little attention. The United States Supreme Court ruled only this year that a state does have a right, guaranteed by federal common law, to be protected against pollution arising outside its own borders. This Article analyzes this "state's right," examines its early precedents, discusses the unique characteristics of an action brought by a state to enforce this right, and indicates ways in which the courts could fashion a meaningful definition for this relatively new concept.
24111414|Since the early part of this century, many corporations have been spending considerable portions of their advertising budgets on attempts to project favorable public images. In recent years much of this image advertising has been focused on mammoth campaigns designed by many of the largest industrial concerns to portray themselves as leaders in the fight for a clean, healthy environment. This Article, written by an attorney for the Federal Trade Commission, describes and categorizes the nature, extent, and effects of corporate image advertising, especially that dealing with environmental issues. The author discusses the applicability of the first amendment guarantee of free speech to this advertising, delving into the "commercial speech" exception delineated by the Supreme Court. Pointing out the need to control such advertising, he outlines a possible regulatory role for the Federal Trade Commission.
24115000|The role of economics in environmental regulation lies at the heart of the Supreme Court's 2009 decision in Entergy Corporation v. Riverkeeper. In Riverkeeper, the Supreme Court determined that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has the authority to conduct cost-benefit analysis when promulgating technology standards for cooling water intake structures at existing power plants pursuant to the Clean Water Act. Like many environmental regulations, the Clean Water Act is silent on the use of such analysis. Writing for the majority, Justice Scalia interpreted the Act to permit the EPA's reliance on cost-benefit analysis. As Justice Breyer posits in his concurrence, in times of limited resources and dire environmental problems it is wasteful to force an industry to spend billions to save one more fish while those resources may be more wisely spent resolving other environmental woes. This Note argues that such an approach can only work when the environmental woes are properly defined. In the case at hand, the EPA grossly oversimplified the environmental problem and financial burdens and thus miscalculated the environmental and financial benefits of the best technology available. By ignoring the environmental harm caused by power plant water use and consumption, the EPA did not factor in the potentially huge environmental benefits of restoring instream flows and the financial and social benefit of averting a crisis in the energy-water nexus.
24114514|After discovering that diesel exhaust generated by mobile sources caused 70 percent of the airborne cancer risk in California's South Coast Air Basin, the South Coast Air Quality Management District promulgated a set of rules designed to reduce the output of these toxic emissions. The rules imposed purchase restrictions on certain fleet owners that prevented them from purchasing a diesel powered vehicle if a clean-fueled alternative vehicle was commercially available. In Engine Manufacturers Ass'n v. South Coast Air Quality Management District, the Supreme Court held that such purchase restrictions were expressly preempted by the Clean At Act. In contrast with the Court's traditional insistence that congressional intent is the critical inquiry in preemption cases, the majority based its decision solely on what it considered to be the "plain-meaning" of the text of the statute and abandoned the long-standing presumption against preemption. This Note scrutinizes the reasoning of the Court's opinion and finds its holding unsupported by either the text or the history of the Clean Air Act. It argues not just that the Court erred in finding the terms of the statute unambiguous, but that the "plain meaning" approach to statutory interpretation, which presupposes a degree of verbal precision and stability our language has not attained, has no proper place in preemption analyses. Finally, as the decision has important implications for the future of federal preemption and the continued viability of local control, especially in the context of environmental law, this Note attempts to predict the circumstances under which the Court will fail to apply the presumption against preemption in the future.
44321158|In Florida Key Deer v. Paulison, the Eleventh Circuit held that federal agencies cannot meet the Endangered Species Act's (ESA's) command to "carry[] out programs for the conservation of endangered species" with programs of "insignificant effect." Since the enactment of the ESA, courts have taken a variety of approaches to this requirement, which is found in section 7(a)(1) of the ESA. While some prior interpretations have rendered section 7(a)(1) effectively unenforceable, the Florida Key Deer decision belongs to a line of cases that reads meaningful procedural requirements into the section. Although the Eleventh Circuit has made an important contribution to the jurisprudence of ESA section 7(a)(1) by establishing a "significant effect" benchmark for compliance, this Note argues that effective conservation programs cannot be implemented as the result of litigation alone. The ESA's goals cannot be realized without executive leadership because of the unique competencies of the executive branch.
24113491|Legal scholars have begun to treat the exclusion of residents of unincorporated urban areas from basic urban services such as sewer and clean water delivery as a distinct environmental injustice. Current law and historical practices of city governments have thrown these communities, many of which are in California's Central Valley, into poverty and disenfranchisement, with little legal recourse. At the same time, activists fighting climate change are stymied at the international and national levels, with the 2009 Copenhagen conference and President Obama's campaign proposals leading nowhere. But lawyers have found a way to tie the California Environmental Quality Act to California's land use planning laws in a way that gives them leverage to impel local governments to enact climate action plans that employ the principles of smart growth. These two efforts on unincorporated urban areas and climate change can unite. As part of a highly collaborative process, lawyers and community residents can weave principles of fair growth, especially the provision of vital services to disadvantaged unincorporated areas, into the smart growth arguments. This will benefit both groups, each supplementing the other's political heft to enact their unified vision. This solution is only half legal in nature; the rest will call for deft grassroots organizing and institutional coalition-building. As such, it requires not a commentary, but a proposal, which is presented herein.
24115054|In recent years the federal agencies that administer the Endangered Species Act have increasingly relied on genetic data to decide which species and populations merit protection. Because the analysis of genetic data is highly technical and unfamiliar to the majority of those concerned with the Act, agency decisions are in danger of becoming less transparent, insulated by the language of genetics and the seeming surety of its associated statistics. In this paper, I attempt to provide a resource for lawyers and other non-biologists faced with understanding the genetics that underlie many modern claims under the Endangered Species Act. I do so by describing the types of data federal agencies routinely use and the analyses those data drive. I then scrutinize the agencies' treatment of the primary data in two particular agency decisions under the Act, and conclude with suggestions to improve the accessibility of this kind of data, making public input more effective. As technical data inform an ever larger percentage of decisions about species protection, this paper provides basic information to improve citizens' ability to understand and engage in the administration of the Endangered Species Act. The continued legitimacy of the agencies and the Act itself depend in part on such citizen engagement, and on the continued transparency of agency decisions.
24115055|This Note has three goals: to describe the Environmental Protection Agency's 2003 delegation of National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permitting authority to the State of Maine under the Clean Water Act, to critique the Agency's decision based on principles of federal Indian law, and to propose solutions to the resultant problems faced by Maine's Indian tribesnamely, an inability to safely pursue their cultural tradition of subsistence fishing due to insufficiently protective state water quality standards. The Note describes the history of the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act and the Maine Implementing Act, and the problems those Acts pose with regard to State authority in tribal lands for purposes of National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permitting. It then details the Environmental Protection Agency's decision in favor of the State's authority to regulate water quality in tribal waters, and the First Circuit's affirmation of that decision. Those decisions, the Note argues, were not made with the proper appreciation for the basic interpretive canons of federal Indian law. Finally, the Note offers and provides normative justifications for three potential solutions to the basic problems posed by the delegation and the Settlement Acts: first, the Environmental Protection Agency could reject state water quality standards as inadequately protective, based on the federal trust responsibility to Indian tribes; second, the tribes could assert their own regulatory authority over the waters at issue; and, third, the Settlement Acts could be amended to explicitly allow for concurrent state and tribal authority over water pollution regulation within tribal territories.
24114519|In 2004, the Department of Defense (DOD) introduced federal legislation proposing exemptions from the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, and the Clean Air Act. This proposal was the last of a three-part legislative package called the Readiness and Range Preservation Initiative, through which DOD sought exemptions from several federal environmental statutes in order to ensure military readiness in the face of environmental compliance requirements. While Congress granted earlier exemptions from the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the Marine Mammal Protection Act, and the Endangered Species Act, it declined to grant exemptions from the hazardous waste and clean air laws in 2004. The DOD, however, will propose these exemptions again in 2005. Public interest groups, representatives from local and state governments, scientists and community advocates raised several concerns regarding the proposed hazardous waste law exemptions, most notably that these exemptions were dangerous to the public health, redundant, and founded in exaggerated concerns. Arguably, the current statutory scheme provides DOD with sufficient flexibility to avoid liability while still ensuring unyielding protection for the environment and public health. If the exemptions were to be granted, DOD would not face liability or mitigation responsibility for munitions-based toxic contamination until there was an "imminent and substantial endangerment" to the public health; at that point, mitigating the hazardous waste and protecting the public health would present tremendous and possibly insurmountable challenges.
24114953|This Article addresses puzzles relating to the allocation of grandfathering rights. First, when a government wishes to distribute grandfathering rights to societal actors who currently engage in a behavior that will soon be restricted, the societal actors may engage in inefficient behavior to secure additional property rights. To minimize that incentive, the government may employ a "retrospective allocation" based on activities that predate the limitations on resource access. Legal uncertainty makes it more difficult for societal actors to modify their behavior. Such systems have become increasingly common in the context of environmental and natural resource regulation. Second, assuming societal actors act in anticipation of retrospective allocation, the criteria for winning allocations must change over time for retrospective allocation to maintain effectiveness on an ongoing basis. Third, why should the government employ grandfathering, yet also wish to cabin the ability of societal actors to engage in rent-seeking under grandfathering? Even under retrospective allocation, the legislature still can reward rent-seeking. Strong community norms also may convince the legislature to devolve authority to a regulatory body that is not beholden to any interest group. The arguments here are important for several reasons. First, the Article illuminates the growing, yet under-examined, "retrospective allocation" device. Second, retrospective allocation provides an important caveat to the law and economics literature presumption against legal transition relief. Third, retrospective allocation may apply beyond the allocation of grandfathered rights to natural resource access, such as the granting of amnesty for illegal immigrants, the assessment of academic actors and institutions, and the measurement of countries' conformity with international legal treaties.
24114295|In W.R. Grace & Co. v. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Third Circuit ruled that an EPA emergency order to clean up an ammonia plume in a public water system was arbitrary and capricious although the agency based the order upon the recommendations of a technical study team that included representatives from Grace and the EPA. This unsavory result lends support for modification of the unpredictable "arbitrary and capricious" review standard that governs judicial review of agency decisions.
24114229|In Lockheed Martin Corp. v. Superior Court, the California Supreme Court rejected certification for a proposed medical monitoring class, but declined to set a per se bar against class treatment of such claims. The court held that individual issues predominated because the class members had not provided substantial evidence that they could resolve dosage issues with common proof. In rejecting certification, the court improperly focused on the substantive merits of the case and raised a manageability concern for future classes of medical monitoring claimants. Although the decision expressly allows for class treatment of medical monitoring claims under certain circumstances, it limits class-wide adjudication of environmental pollution and chemical exposure claims because it requires excessive scrutiny of the merits for certification.
24114610|In Headwaters Inc. v. United States Forest Service, the Ninth Circuit reversed a lower court finding of claim preclusion due to virtual representation of the plaintiffs in a prior case, thus allowing a citizen suit challenging the Forest Service's decision to allow logging in national forests in Oregon and California to advance. Although this decision appears to promote environmental interests, analysis of the case reveals an important negative impact on civil procedure doctrine. The Ninth Circuit interpreted Supreme Court precedent broadly to reject preclusion by virtual representation, furthering the implicit policy of allowing every person to have a "day in court." The court supported its policy-based decision with a seemingly straightforward doctrinal analysis, although an alternative result founded in legal theory and precedent was available. In so doing, the court missed an opportunity to identify a public rights exception in the determination of adequate representation under preclusion doctrine based on the significant difference between conventional cases that focus on individual interests and citizen suits that consider effects on public interests. Citizen suits, such as Headwaters' challenge to the Forest Service's decision-making process under the National Environmental Policy Act, National Forest Management Act, and the Administrative Procedures Act, usually involve disputes over public rights or public goods that affect communities as a whole. Had the court chosen, instead, to outline the parameters for the proper application of preclusion by virtual representation in a citizen suit, it could have advanced the judicial goals of efficiency and finality, while balancing and protecting the interests of the courts, the parties, and the public. Instead, the Ninth Circuit expressly declined the opportunity to expand virtual representation theory to include a presumption of adequate representation where public rather than private rights are at stake. This Note argues that by choosing a cautious approach, the court missed an opportunity to acknowledge the unique aspects of statutory citizen suits in environmental litigation, and to open the door for change in this area of civil procedure. This Note proposes an expansion in preclusion doctrine, to extend the application of virtual representation in cases involving public rights or goods, potentially balanced by a corresponding reduction in the harm requirement for standing in such cases.
24114596|This Article analyzes the Supreme Court's most recent foray into redevelopmentthe controversial case of Kelo v. City of New London. Over vehement dissents by the Court's conservatives, an unenthusiastic Justice Stevens validated New London's condemnation of single-family homes for a mixed-use commercial development. The case ignited a firestorm of opposition. Property rights advocates, moving beyond the dissenters' arguments, introduced legislation in most states and in Congress which would terminate the use of condemnation to assist economic redevelopment for any purpose. This Article critiques both the majority opinion and dissents in light of the modern practice of public-private economic redevelopment. It argues that the majority opinion fails to elucidate the economic and social activity involved, and that the facts in Kelo are unrepresentative of modern redevelopmenta productive and necessary cure for land use market failure in center cities. This public-private collaboration catalyzes the revitalization of downtowns, facilitates infill development, and produces much of the nation's affordable housing. Where such redevelopment requires the use of eminent domain, its exercise is essential against economically motivated owners who refuse to participate in the redevelopment and hold out for untenable prices. The exercise of eminent domain rarely involves condemnation of residential uses, and when so directed, now requires relocation and produces compensation that usually exceeds fair market value. This Article proposes that modern public-private economic redevelopment commingles public and private uses, public and private ownership, and public and private gain in ways that renders inapposite and un-administrable both the majority's view of land use and the dissenters' proposed litmus tests for acceptable use of eminent domain. Finally, this Article contends that Justice O'Connor's dissent clashes inexplicably with principles of deference she herself articulated in the Court's last pronouncement on redevelopment, that the dissenters' policy complaints are decades out-of-date, and that the landscape of uses and municipal financing the Justices would reinstate lies in the irretrievable past.
24114635|"The State can no more abdicate its trust over property in which the whole people are interested...than it can abdicate its police powers...." "The proprietors were men who understood their rights, and were fearless in the defence of them, ff those who twice purchased New Jersey; who braved the dangers of an immense ocean; shared in the toils, sufferings, and privations of the first settlers; who claimed all strays by land, and wrecks by sea, in virtue of their grants, and never for a moment conceived that these grants swallowed up what, by the law of the land they left, had ever been considered the common rights of Englishmen; shall we, after a lapse of almost three centuries, insult the memory of men who were an ornament to the human race, whose virtues have highly exalted their names, and whose labours have been a blessing to the world, by saying, they knew nothing of their privileges, and that their birthrights were lost forever in the forests of New Jersey; that their boasted Magna Charta was a farce from which they could derive no benefit; and that liberty, which they so highly valued, was confined to the grants and concessions? or that our legislatures, from time to time taking upon them to regulate fisheries of oysters as well as of floating fish for the public benefit, were totally ignorant of their powers, overstepped the bounds prescribed by the constitution, to the destruction of the rights and interests of individuals? I think not." "That generations of trustees have slept on public rights does not foreclose their successors from awakening."
24111318|Finding solutions to the world's pollution problems through international cooperation is an approach often discussed, but seldom implemented. In this Perspective the author proposes the establishment in Japan of a public interest center linked in a network with other centers around the world through cooperation on domestic and international environmental problems. The author explores the social, cultural, environmental, and legal-technical setting in Japan and suggests an organizational model for a public interest center that might overcome barriers to effective public interest representation in Japan.
24113985|The Kyoto Protocol is designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, while allowing Parties to implement trading mechanisms to achieve such reductions. A compliance regime is necessary for the success of the Protocol. Given the Protocol's complexity and expected participation by non-state actors, any dispute settlement mechanism designed for such a compliance system must be flexible and provide predictability to its participants. This Article draws on existing dispute settlement models to recommend a suitable settlement mechanism. It suggests a three-tiered dispute settlement system combining aspects of an enforceable dispute resolution process, strong sanctions for noncompliance, and opportunities for arbitrating disputes that arise between private entities.
24112430|As water resources become increasingly scarce, allocations must be made between competing demands for environmental and consumptive uses. In the Delta Decision the California Water Resources Control Board was called upon to make such an allocation. This Note evaluates that decision by analyzing applicable case law and statutory policy prescriptions. The author argues that, while the Delta Decision appears to contravene certain precedent applicable to the federal Central Valley Project, there are overriding policy considerations which ought to compel compliance by the appropriate federal, as well as state, agencies.
43920932|One of the principal, if unexpected, results of the Supreme Court's 1992 decision in Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Commission is the rise of background principles of property and nuisance law as a categorical defense to takings claims. Our writings on the background principles defense have provoked Professor James Huffman, a devoted advocate for an expanded use of regulatory takings to protect landowner development rights, to mistakenly charge us with arguing for the use of common law principles to circumvent the rule of law, Supreme Court intent, and the takings clause. Actually, ours was not a normative brief at all, but instead a positivistic explanation of takings cases in the lower courts since Lucas, which include judicial recognition of statutory background principles. In this Article, we respond to Huffman, examining the continuing importance of the background principles defense and explaining the trouble with his vision of libertarian property and his peculiar notion of the rule of law. We focus especially on wetlands regulation, which Huffman thinks is a recent development when in fact its origins date to medieval England, and therefore is particularly suited to the background principles defense. We conclude that background principles, as "the logically antecedent inquiry" into the nature of a claimant's property interest, are now a permanent feature of the takings landscape.
24113729|In recent decades, new theories in resource management have emerged that have been specifically designed to account for the uncertainties and complexities inherent in ecosystem processes and structures. Adaptive management is one such theory and has become the dominant approach used by resource managers where degrees of scientific uncertainty are high. Adaptive management has been particularly recognized for its usefulness in addressing the impacts of climate change on wildlife species due to the high degree of complexity and scientific uncertainty climate change entails. Although adaptive management enjoys widespread support among resource managers and academics, guidance has been lacking in how to implement adaptive management plans effectively. The absence of clear statutory authority and regulatory standards has made the development, implementation and review of adaptive management plans challenging. The lack of adequate funding and personnel resources has often also greatly restricted an agency's ability to implement adaptive management plans effectively. This Note explores challenges to the use of adaptive management as a resource management approach with emphasis on challenges that have arisen in the context of managing the impacts of climate change on protected species. The recent decision by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in Greater Yellowstone Coalition v. Servheen, 665 F.3d 1015 (2011) provides a backdrop for discussion. In Greater Yellowstone Coalition, the Ninth Circuit rejected an adaptive management plan for removal of a population of grizzly bears from the ESA 's list of threatened species where ample scientific evidence indicated that the bear was adversely affected by climate change and the effects of climate change were not adequately addressed in the plan. The case is noteworthy not only because it established that climate change impacts must be addressed in adaptive management plans where adaptive management is the selected management approach, but also because it highlights difficulties agencies and courts have in developing, implementing and reviewing adaptive management plans where statutory authority, regulatory standards and funding for the plans are lacking. The Note then considers the possible role of the National Fish Wildlife and Plants Climate Adaptation Strategy (FWP Strategy) recently developed under the direction of the Council for Environmental Quality and authorized by Executive Order. The FWP Strategy strongly endorses the development and implementation of adaptive management plans for U.S. species affected by climate change. While the FWP Strategy is still in its early stages of development and adaptive management plans devised under its guidance have yet to be tested, the Strategy appears to address several of the problems that have plagued agencies in obtaining judicial approval of adaptive management plans. On its face, the FWP Strategy stands to benefit the many species of fish, wildlife and plants in the United States whose survival is threatened by climate change, and may ultimately provide a viable solution for resolving current management issues involving these species that were raised in Greater Yellowstone Coalition.
24114263|2001 was a critical year in climate change negotiations. Despite U.S. withdrawal, 178 countries agreed upon a text that would allow developed countries to move forward with ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. The agreement elaborates the means by which an industrialized country may go about meeting the greenhouse gas emissions reduction requirements established by the Kyoto Protocol in 1997. The Kyoto Protocol represents the only serious effort by the international community to address the deleterious effects of climate change on humankind and the environment.
24114041|The authors propose a framework for analyzing the broad class of problems that fall within the "tragedy of the commons," the dominant metaphor for understanding environmental problems. The Article applies industrial organization theory to the issue of how to solve tragedies of the commons, developing a conceptual analysis built around the various forms of property rights (common, public, private, regulatory) used. It then examines how technology affects the appropriateness of different solutions. Finally, the Article expands the notion of technology to include the legal institutions that implement the various forms of property, uncovering an important set of incentive effects.
24114542|The water-law doctrine of prior appropriation, developed in Colorado in the late 1800s, has received much scholarly attention, due to the claimed efficiency advantages of the system of private property rights it is supposed to have instituted. Supporters and critics alike have associated the doctrine with values such as the preference for private over common property, the privatization of the public domain, and the facilitation of markets in natural resources. This article relies on analysis of previously unexamined historical sources to demonstrate that the appropriation doctrine actually was intended to express contemporary radical, agrarian ideals of broadly distributed property and antimonopolism. The unofficial codes of the Colorado mining districts, conventionally thought to be the source of the doctrine's "first in time, first in right" principle, focused primarily on rules designed to ensure wide distribution of property. Similarly, the statutes of the Colorado Territory, the water-rights provisions of the state constitution of 1876, and early judicial decisions culminating in the leading case of Coffin v. Left Hand Ditch Co., were mainly concerned to prevent control of water by capitalists, and did so by breaking the common-law monopoly of riparian owners and opening access to the resource to all bona fide users. This historical analysis raises the broader question of whether distributive justice has been adequately considered, alongside efficiency and public choice, as a factor in explaining the evolution of property-rights regimes.
24114611|In ARC Ecology v. United States Department of the Air Force, the Ninth Circuit rejected the extraterritorial application of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) for Filipino residents that requested a preliminary assessment of two former U.S. military bases under CERCLA section 105(d). This Note explores the court's decision and argues that in rejecting CERCLA's application abroad in this case, the court's use of section 111(1) actually opens new ground in allowing CERCLA's extraterritorial application. Apart from section 111(1), this Note also explores the other general tests used for justifying the extraterritorial application of a statutethe amount of U.S. control over the land in question, and the resulting harm to the United States if a court refuses to apply the statute abroadto provide further support for CERCLA's extraterritorial application even for claimants that do not meet the section 111(1) standard.
24113966|In Iverson, the Ninth Circuit upheld a corporate officer's criminal conviction under the Clean Water Act (CWA), applying the Responsible Corporate Officer (RCO) doctrine that allows mens rea to be inferred from the defendant's position and/or level of responsibility. Significantly, Iverson employs the RCO's broad "authority to control" test for corporate officer liability in the face of Bestfood's narrow "actual control" ruling for parent corporation liability. At the very least, Iverson demonstrates the Ninth Circuit's willingness to aggressively enforce the CWA with an unpopular doctrine which may or may not actually repudiate the traditional mens rea requirement necessary for criminal convictions.
24114060|This Article addresses the evolution of legal rules to govern the global environment. It traces the "borrowing" of legal ideas from national law into international law, in particular the borrowing of emissions trading and the comprehensive approach into the Rio and Kyoto climate change treaties. The Article argues that such "vertical legal borrowing" is related to, yet importantly different from, the pervasive "horizontal legal borrowing" across national legal systems that has been much studied by comparative law scholars. The Article develops both positive and normative assessments of vertical legal borrowing, arguing that it is often suppressed but increasingly essential to the success of global environmental law. Yet vertical legal borrowing must be undertaken with care, adapting the borrowed national law concept to the very different institutional framework of international law. The Article suggests that the major flaw in the Kyoto Protocolthe omission of developing countriesderives from an attempt at vertical legal borrowing without such adaptation. More generally, the Article suggests that whether legal rules evolve towards efficiency depends on the institutions of lawmaking and legal education.
24115308|Sustainably managing marine ecosystems has proved nearly impossible, with few success stories. Ecosystem management failures largely stem from the traditional sector-by-sector, issue-by-issue approach to managing ocean-borne activitiesan approach that is fundamentally unable to keep pace with the dynamics of coupled human, ecological and oceanographic systems. In the United States today there are over twenty federal agencies and thirty-five coastal states and territories operating under dozens of statutory authorities shaping coastal and ocean policy. Among marine ecologists and policy experts there is an emerging consensus that a major overhaul in U.S. ocean governance is necessary. This Article suggests that the public trust doctrinean ancient legal concept that is already incorporated in U.S. state coastal lawscan uniquely provide a unifying concept for U.S. federal ocean governance. Though the public trust concept can be located in the legal systems of many countries, it robustly manifests in the United States, where it has historically protected the public's rights to fishing, navigation, and commerce in and over navigable waterways and tidal waters. In its most basic form, the doctrine obliges governments to manage common natural resources, the body of the trust, in the best interest of their citizens, the beneficiaries of the trust. Today the public trust doctrine is integral to the protection of coastal ecosystems and beach access in many states and has even made its way into state constitutions. It would be simple, and seemingly logical, to assume that the same fiduciary responsibility of states to protect public trust uses of their waters extends to all marine resources within the United States' 200-mile Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). However an artificial line has been drawn around state waters, and the legal authority and responsibility of the U.S. government to protect public trust resources in the vast space of its EEZ (the largest of any country on earth) have never been fully and expressly established. Securing the place of the public trust doctrine in U.S. federal oceans management would be valuable, given the immense pressure to exploit EEZ resources, the failure of the current regulatory approach, improved scientific understanding of the interconnected nature of ocean ecosystems, and the growing demandfor sustainable management of ocean resources. This Article will outline the development of states' public trust doctrines; discuss the expansion of U.S. sovereignty over its neighboring ocean waters during the twentieth century; analyze possible avenues for expanding the doctrine to federal waters; and consider how a federal public trust doctrine could clarify some specific emerging issues in U.S. oceans management. At the heart of our analysis lie three questions: (1) does a federal public trust doctrine exist; (2) if so, can we rightfully extend it to include the entirety of the U.S. ocean waters; and (3) could the doctrine provide the missing catalyst for federal agencies to manage the use of U.S. ocean resources in a coordinated, sustainable fashion?
24114230|The U.S. wildfire problem is currently a volatile issue due to the highly destructive nature of forest fires that have occurred over the past few years. The Healthy Forests Restoration Act seeks to solve this wildfire problem through prescribed burning and hazardous fuel reduction projects. Many proponents of the Act were legislators from states severely affected by fires, with a profound personal interest in finding a solution. However, inadequate funding means that the areas in actual need of thinning, the forests neighbored by and affecting communities, will not be treated. Instead, timber companies will be able to harvest valuable old growth from isolated forests, in reality worsening the effects of fires on communities. Overall, HFRA is an ugly, imperfect solution that may cause more harm than good.
44320323|With the global growth of public concern about environmental issues over the last several decades, environmental legal norms have become increasingly internationalized. This development has been reflected both in the surge of international environmental agreements as well as the growth and increased sophistication of national environmental legal systems around the world. The result is the emergence of a set of legal principles and norms regarding the environment, such that one can arguably describe it as a body of law. After exploring the diverse forces that are contributing to the emergence of what we call "global environmental law," this Article considers the implications of this emergence for the implementation, practice, and development of environmental law worldwide.
24113609|Common accounts of federalism and preemption do not envision states as supreme. According to the conventional view, states may share regulatory space with the federal government, carry out federal programs, or operate independently and even exclusively. But in two provisions in federal law, states play a role of supremacy: they are given extraordinary powerwhat we call "reverse preemption"to veto federal agency decisions that conflict with state policy. One provision allows states to override federal actions that conflict with state coastal management; another gives states the power to reverse or condition federal licensing decisions that impede state water quality goals. We examine these reverse preemption provisions in this Article and explore their ramifications. We suggest that reverse preemption provisions enhance the power of states with strong environmental preferences through an unexpected form of federalism. We describe the ways in which the provisions allow Congress to check executive branch decision making that could undermine environmental protection, particularly when Congress and the Presidency are held by different political parties. Thus, reverse preemption provisions play an important function in bolstering separation of powers values. Finally, we explore reverse preemption as a mechanism for checking agency capture by regulated parties and make preliminary suggestions for the use of reverse preemption provisions in other policy areas.
24113984|A transnational legal process approach enhances understanding of instrument choice in international environmental law. International allowance trading depends upon international transactions and therefore requires detailed international legal rules. Since enacting these rules generally requires unanimous consent, agreement to a well-designed international trading program will prove difficult. Because key countries may either oppose trading as inequitable or not agree to good design criteria, international allowance trading may discourage effective participation in international agreements. An approach that relies upon national compliance using nationally chosen methods merits consideration as an alternative to international selection of environmental instruments.
24112477|Recent efforts to abate noise have generally overlooked or excluded the United States military as a major source of pollution. Military aircraft operations have become a significant threat to the health of individuals and their environment. Judicial remedies of inverse condemnation, nuisance, and negligence, often brought under the Federal Torts Claim Act or the Military Claims Act, are inadequate in dealing with the present scope and level of noise pollution. The severe repercussions of noise and the contributing role that the military plays mandate a change in legislative policy and judicial interpretations. This paper examines the problem posed by military aircraft noise, urges the necessity of change, offers underlying reasons to support this change, and suggests directions that future policy and decisions should take.
24113927|This Article responds to a series of class action suits filed against railroads, telecommunication companies, and the federal government claiming that once railroads abandon their corridors, all property rights shift to adjacent landowners. This Article reviews the state law on this matter and offers a theory of how courts should handle these cases. After discussing the history of nineteenth-century railroad land acquisition practices, we analyze the scope of the easement limited for railroad purposes. We then discuss the role abandonment plays in affecting the rights of third-party users of these corridors as well as successor trail owners. We conclude with a theory of railroad easements that interprets the railroad's powers based on the public participation that helped create and establish these corridors and the tenuous claims of adjacent landowners.
24114506|More people, less water: this is the widely anticipated future of the state of California. As the state's population grows to 46 million by the year 2020, California will strive to meet water demand with a reduced water supply from the Colorado River, and struggle with the devastating impacts to the Sierra Nevada snow pack caused by global warming. Yet is California preparing for this future today? Does the law direct land-use planners on the city and county levels to work in concert with their water planning counterparts to prepare for these significant challenges? As concern over these issues has grown, recent judicial and legislative action has added new substantive requirements for land-use and water planning, as well as adding procedural requirements that ask land use and water planners to communicate with one another more consistently. In addition, both the Governor's Office of Planning and Research (OPR) and the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) are currently updating influential reference documents for land use and water planning professionals. This Comment seizes this timely juncture to analyze the legal requirements for long-term land use and water planning in California. It also evaluates a proposal to add a water element as the eighth element of the general plan process for cities and counties. It concludes by offering an opinion to both the OPR and DWR on the efficacy of a water element in the general plan process as a means of improving the connection between land use and water planning.
24115077|Air pollutants from coal-fired power plants frequently cross state borders, which can impact a receiving state's ability to meet and maintain the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) mandated by the Clean Air Act (CAA). North Carolina asserted that such interstate air pollution was responsible for its nonattainment of certain NAAQS. After engaging in a protracted and circuitous petitioning process under the CAA, which failed to compel large electric utilities in thirteen states to reduce emissions of certain pollutants, North Carolina then looked to the common law of public nuisance for relief. Under public nuisance law, a defendant is liable for unreasonably interfering with a right common to the general public. In North Carolina ex rel. Cooper v. Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), North Carolina sued the TVA, contending that the air pollution from the agency's eleven coal plants in three surrounding states crossed North Carolina's borders in unreasonable amounts, creating a public nuisance under the nuisance laws of each source state. This Note argues that, in overturning the lower court's finding that four of the plants created a public nuisance, the Fourth Circuit missed an important opportunity to use source state nuisance law as a gap-filler and provide relief where the CAA provided none. It explains how, in reaching its decision, the Fourth Circuit muddled the application of nuisance law, in contravention of the goals of public nuisance and the CAA, and misconstrued and misapplied Supreme Court precedent. This Note advances the popular contention that the common law of nuisance rightfully co-exists with, complements, and fills the gaps in, statutory regimes. Specifically, it defines the proper edges of the gap public nuisance actions may fill in the interstate air pollution context and advises the courts to adopt such a conception.
24114517|In Home Builders v. Norton the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) argued that the Arizona pygmy-owl should be listed endangered as a distinct population segment simply because it is the taxon's sole remaining domestic population. Ruling against the FWS, the Ninth Circuit held that based upon the FWS policy a population of a species can not be listed as endangered simply because it is found within the United States. The court explained that international boundaries can be considered in the first prong of the policy recognizing distinct population segments but not in the second prong ofthat policy  the "significance" prong. While the Ninth Circuit's interpretation of the FWS policy was correct, the case highlights one of the policy's flaws. As it stands it does not accord sufficient weight to domestic populations of species. International boundaries should be considered beyond the first prong of the DPS policy if the domestic population of a species is endangered. In some circumstances an endangered domestic population should be listed primarily because it is domestic.
24114307|California recently adopted a Renewable Portfolio Standard in hopes of stabilizing its energy market and promoting a stronger renewable energy industry. Senate Bill 1078 aims to achieve these elusive goals by mandating a significant increase in the procurement of renewable energy by retail electricity sellers. The law as written, however, poses several hurdles that must be overcome by careful implementation. If the Energy Commission can establish a workable benchmark pricing methodology, avoid preemption by the federal Public Utility Regulatory Policy Act, and create an effective enforcement mechanism, California could once again become the national leader in pursuing a renewable energy future.
24114253|Supreme Court takings jurisprudence contains few bright-line rules. The Court has traditionally rejected such rules in favor of balancing tests in its analysis of regulatory takings claims. The Court's recent decision in Palazzolo continues this pattern. In Palazzolo, the Court rejected a rule barring regulatory takings claims by property owners who acquire property after the enactment of regulations. The Court also relaxed a rule to determine when takings claims meet ripeness requirements. This decision makes it easier for property owners to bring regulatory takings claims, and gives the courts greater leeway for the exercise of fairness.
24114999|The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) imposes joint and several liability on parties responsible for a single and indivisible incident of hazardous substances contamination. Joint and several liability may be avoided, however, by proving that there is a reasonable basis for determining the contribution of each party to a single harm. While there is no consensus as to what constitutes "a reasonable basis," courts that have analyzed the "reasonable basis" question have rarely apportioned harm. However, in the Supreme Court's recent decision in Burlington Northern & Santa Fe Railway Co. v. United States, the Court appears to have made it easier to obtain apportionment, and to avoid joint and several liability. Making apportionment easier to justify, and thereby making recovery of cleanup costs harder to obtain, contravenes CERCLA's objective of placing the cost of cleanup on parties whose activities contributed to the contamination. Thus, Burlington Northern sets a bad precedent for future courts. In response, this Note proposes a four-part test as a normative alternative for determining whether a basis for apportionment is "reasonable." Based on this proposed test, this Note concludes that the basis for apportionment in Burlington Northern was unreasonable.
24114297|In Entergy Arkansas, Inc. v. Nebraska, perhaps the most significant decision regarding the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act since New York v. United States, the Eighth Circuit held that Nebraska was not entitled to sovereign immunity protections from suit arising from its obligations under the Central Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact. On remand, the district court entered a judgment against Nebraska in excess of $150 million. The regulation of low-level radioactive waste disposal has been particularly difficult due to the delicate balance of power between the states and the federal government, and also because of "Not in My Backyard" syndrome. It remains to be seen whether this financially devastating judgment against Nebraska will encourage other states to comply with the obligations in their respective regional compacts. The Entergy decisions will likely provide guidance to courts when determining sovereign immunity rights in litigation over other low-level radioactive waste compacts. Additionally, this case illustrates that the federal government has not yet achieved its goal of a national system of regional low-level radioactive waste disposal sites, and it is time for Congress to revisit the problem.
24115045|The California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 (Assembly Bill 32, or A.B. 32) represents the nation's first sweeping effort to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. The law sets an aggressive goal for reducing emissions, but leaves open the question of how to reach that goal. Therefore, A.B. 32 will only be a transformative piece of climate change legislation if it results in regulations as sweeping as the law itself. Since a regulatory regime of this scope will encompass the broadest possible spectrum of activities that generate emissions, A.B. 32's implementation will inevitably collide with prior policymaking paradigms that fail to consider climate. One of the most difficult challenges will be the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the transportation sector. Powering more efficient cars with lower carbon fuel stocks will not necessarily be enough to meet A.B. 32's goals of reducing greenhouse gases to 1990 levels by 2020Californians must drive less. Managing the demand-side of transportationtypically measured in vehicle miles traveled (VMT)implicates land use as a major indirect source of greenhouse gas emissions. While a general plan or a zoning ordinance is not commonly considered equivalent to a smokestack or a tailpipe, development patterns wield tremendous influence over the transportation choices people make, the vehicle miles they travel, and therefore, the emission of greenhouse gases. The transportation-land use connection suggests that the California State Air Resources Board (CARB or "the state board"), the primary state regulator of greenhouse gas emissions, must confront the infirmities in local land use decision-making to curb the rising rates of VMT per capita. The necessary collision between state environmental goals and local land use authority will test the legal limits of A.B. 32 and CARB's administrative authority, as well as the political capacity of a growing coalition of climate action advocates to break a decades-old stalemate between developers and state and local governments. The near exclusive authority of cities and counties over general planning and zoning combined with their inability (or unwillingness) to internalize the costs of broad environmental externalities associated with auto-centric development patterns are undermining the state's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Political and economic factors, manifested through state and local laws and regulations, have left California with a system that deters density and promotes sprawl. The logic of land use has historically been dictated by self-interest; individual cities and counties make decisions based on insular, local demands, which may or may not align with broader state goals. But because A.B. 32 does not explicitly equip CARB with preemptive authority to regulate local land use, it is unlikely that this landmark law will alone be capable of aligning land use decision-making with California's push to mitigate the impacts of the climate crisis.
24114629|This Article examines the line drawn by the U.S. Supreme Court in Tahoe-Sierra Preservation Council, Inc. v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency between physical and regulatory takings. Justice Stevens, writing for the Court, asserted that the two types of takings are entirely distinct, that no analogies should be drawn between them, and that physical and regulatory takings claims should be analyzed in a completely different manner from one another. This Article challenges Stevens' approach, arguing that analogies have been and should be drawn between physical and regulatory takings, and that there is no basis for using different principles to analyze physical and regulatory takings claims. Moreover, this Article asserts that in resolving takings claims, courts should focus on why the government deprived the claimant of property, regardless of whether the alleged taking involved a physical invasion or a regulatory use restriction, since the fundamental issue is whether fairness requires the payment of compensation.
24112399|In January, 1970, Cal-Standard announced a major breakthrough in pollution control technologya gasoline additive given the name F-310. Since January, government agencies, ecology groups, and the media have disputed Cal-Standard's implied ecological claims. This Comment explores the legal issues involved whenever a business enterprise chooses to raise issues of public concern in an attempt to increase its profits. Specifically, the fairness doctrine, the public interest standard, and the first amendment are examined to determine whether an ecology-oriented organization may be able to require provision of free reply time when controversial environmental issues are presented from only one point of view in commercial messages.
24114744|In New York v. EPA, the D.C. Circuit Court evaluated the process by which electrical power companies may make modifications to their plants without installing pollution controls. In 2002, EPA implemented new regulations that allowed electrical power companies to update their facilities without installing pollution controls so long as the total cost of the modifications did not exceed 20 percent of the value of the entire plant. The court held that the 20 percent cutoff violated the plain language of the Clean Air Act. The holding rejected EPA's attempt to exempt the majority of power plants from upgrading their pollution control technology when making modifications. However, in light of the current presidential administration, the holding may be less than significant from an environmental standpoint, and other steps should be taken to improve air quality.
24114305|The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 ("2002 Farm Bill") is the latest in a long succession of federal legislation designed both to provide income security to American farmers and to address the environmental consequences of agriculture. The 2002 Farm Bill represents an advance in agricultural environmental policy, both in program design and resource allocation. Unfortunately, as in previous iterations, the Bill's farmer income support provisions unnecessarily create additional environmental harm, while the Bill's environmental provisions suffer from a lack of comprehensiveness and from their predominantly voluntary nature. This Comment concludes by recommending changes to address these limitations when the Bill comes up for reauthorization in 2007.
24115065|In Stop the Beach Renourishment v. Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the Supreme Court considered without resolving whether a judicial decision interpreting property law could violate the Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment. This Note focuses on ripeness and other procedural implications of the judicial takings concept because they present practical and doctrinal problems. First, ripeness is important on a practical level because it presents a threshold justiciability hurdle for potential judicial taking claims. Second, the judicial takings concept appears fundamentally at odds with the judicial federalism principles that underpin the Court's special ripeness and preclusion rules for takings claims. The Court has essentially forced all federal takings claims into state courts on the premise that they offer an adequate forum, but now the judicial takings theory would reopen federal courthouse doors to check purported state court abuses. This Note concludes that, until the Supreme Court reconsiders Williamson County Regional Planning Commission v. Hamilton Bank, lower courts should strictly apply the state litigation requirement and limit judicial takings claims to state courts, with the possibility of certiorari review when parties properly raise those claims below. This approach would achieve the desired outcomes of a judicial takings doctrine forcing state courts to recognize the risk of altering property rules and to improve the quality of their decisionswhile remaining faithful to the practical requirements and policy rationales of the Court's current ripeness jurisprudence.
24114600|The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act (FDCA) and the Coordinated Framework for the Regulation of Biotechnology are the primary federal tools for oversight of the products of genetic modification. Since their enactment, tremendous advancements in biotechnology have resulted in the creation of novel transgenic organisms, significantly unlike any pre-existing life form. The innovative nature of these transgenic products challenges fundamental assumptions of the FDCA and the Coordinated Framework. The first of these key assumptions is that the categories of "foods" and "drugs" are cleanly separable, and thus can be regulated through entirely different pathways. The FDCA and the Coordinated Framework also assume that genetically modified products do not pose inherent risks of environmental harm requiring regulatory oversight. On this basis, the United States has established a bifurcated system for the regulation of foods and drugs, in which drugs are subjected to much more rigorous scrutiny than food or industrial products. However, basing risk assessment for a novel transgenic organism on this classification places far too much weight on a distinction that is oblivious to the innate features of the transgenic product that present potential risk. Many transgenic organisms will present multiple usage possibilities, whether food, drug, or industrial, creating a strong potential for duplicative regulatory efforts, and for widespread unapproved uses of a product once it becomes commercially available. This focus on classification as a prerequisite for regulatory review by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) also leaves the door open for creatures and products intended for industrial use, or as pets, to enter the marketplace without regulatory scrutiny. In addition, experience with transgenic organisms demonstrates the inadequacy of containment measures for both genetically modified plants and animals, highlighting real risks to ecology, to native species, and to other life forms posed by the unintended introduction of novel creatures into the wild. Twenty years of regulation has shown that the Coordinated Framework's regulatory structure is too inflexible, and the existing laws are too weak, to adequately address the challenges of biotechnology regulation today. To address faults in the existing regulatory structure, this Comment considers the FDA's creation of the Office of Combination Products to coordinate the regulation of interrelated classes of conventional medical products as a model for the development of a similar office overseeing the growth and marketing of genetically modified organisms and their derivative products. In addition, this Comment proposes amendments to the FDCA and the Coordinated Framework that identify and address the previously unforeseen risks presented by evolving advances in genetic engineering. Only by casting off the blinders of the Coordinated Framework and allowing federal regulators to seek out and consider the entirety of the risk potential of each novel transgenic organism can there be real confidence in the FDA's ability to broadly protect public health and safety in this amazing technological arena.
24114518|In Safe Air For Everyone v. Meyer, a three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit upheld an Idaho district court's dismissal of a citizen suit under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) that had challenged grass growers' practice of conducting open field burns of crop residue. This note argues both that the court was wrong to conclude that RCRA did not cover the plaintiffs' claim and that its dismissal of the case on summary judgment was not warranted because disputes of material fact between the parties still existed. The note explains why the Clean Air Act did not provide a basis for plaintiffs to halt grass growers' open field burning and why they had to resort to RCRA in order to make out a federal claim. The note contends further that RCRA allows citizens to bring suit for air pollution caused by crop residue burning and, therefore, that the court should have at least permitted the case to proceed beyond summary judgment and be decided on the merits after a complete hearing. Finally, the note suggests that conduct that creates pollution that crosses state boundaries ought to be treated as a federal issue and, thus, that a federal remedy ought to be available. If open field burning may not be enjoined under any federal statutes, then the persistence of un-redressed harms caused by the resulting pollution signals a gap in the set of federal laws designed to protect human health and the environment.
24111362|The most pressing environmental problems in America and throughout the world are attributable in significant part to rapid and continuing increase in population. Many have looked to the reform of abortion laws as a means of controlling population growth. In January 1973 the United States Supreme Court, in Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton, abruptly overturned restrictive abortion laws throughout the United States. This Comment analyzes these decisions, particularly their public health and demographic aspects. The author concludes that the nation's medical facilities will readily adjust to the increased demand for abortions and that the primary effect of legalization will be an improvement in the quality of abortion operations, rather than an increase in the quantity of operations performed.
24114748|As national security issues have become increasingly more important and urgent in the United States, the imprint of national security has correspondingly grown more apparent on the landscape of environmental regulation. This Note examines how enforcement of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) is at risk of being compromised by the encroachment of national security concerns. The Ninth Circuit's recent ruling in San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace v. Nuclear Regulatory Commission considered whether NEPA requires the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to evaluate, in an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), the potential of a terrorist attack on a proposed storage facility for nuclear material. The NRC claimed that it was not appropriate to address sensitive national security information in an EISa public document. The court, in keeping with Supreme Court precedent, ruled against the NRC and refused to waive NEPA's requirements even though the federal action dealt with classified subject matter. Nonetheless, the court did not provide clear guidelines on how NEPA should be applied in order to resolve the tension between security issues and NEPA's goal of public involvement in environmental decisionmaking. This Note considers that tension and attempts to provide a solution by advocating for the use of a special congressional oversight committee and in camera judicial review of classified NEPA proceedings. By establishing an official procedure for overseeing and reviewing classified NEPA proceedings, Congress can ensure that agencies will not be allowed to undermine NEPA's purposes in the name of national security.
24111302|War is an instance of acute environmental degradation. It has progressed in this century from a phenomonon of discrete personal encounters to one of gross undifferentiating devastation made possible by the advent of chemical and biological weaponry. Defoliation is one widely publicized aspect of war's impact on the environment. War's effect on genetics and the potential of life to reproduce itself is just beginning to be recognized. In this Perspective, the authors argue that if there is to be a meaningful attempt to regulate war and to mitigate its effects, then consideration must be given to war as an ecologically and, in particular, genetically destructive process. The authors' argument concerning the control of new technologies with only partially understood effects echoes an issue that is practically universal throughout the environmental field, whether the problem be pesticides or the proliferation of nuclear power plants. Because of its intensity and acuteness, war offers a case-study of an environmental problem, one which those concerned with environmental quality cannot afford to ignore.
24112564|The [National Park Service] shall promote and regulate the use of [national parks]... by such means and measures as conform to the fundamental purpose of the said parks... which purpose is to conserve the scenery and the natural and historic objects and the wild life therein and to provide for the enjoyment of the same in such manner and by such means as will leave them unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations.
24113735|Although hailed as a "model of cooperative federalism, " the Clean Air Act often leaves state governments and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in an uneasy stalemate over the implementation of emissions reductions regulations. As states often face pressure from polluting industries to reduce federally-enforceable Clean Air Act commitments, and as the United States EPA does not have the capacity to closely control state compliance with federal law, there arise instances where states shirk their obligations under the Clean Air Act. For decades, private and non-profit organizations have been able to use the citizen suit provision of the Clean Air Act to enjoin such state implementation failures. This Note challenges the Sixth Circuit's decision to curtail the scope of such suits in Sierra Club v. Korleski. This Note explores the history of the citizen suit provision and finds that it has been consistently used to prevent states from subverting national environmental goals under the Clean Air Act. Contrary to the Sixth Circuit's contention, this Note argues that Endangered Species Act caselaw is inapposite for an analysis of the scope of the Clean Air Act citizen suit provision. This Note concludes by arguing that authorizing private party suits to enjoin states from flouting voluntary Clean Air Act obligations does not offend the Tenth or Eleventh Amendments of the United States Constitution and instead promotes the legitimacy of the cooperative federalism scheme.
24111283|Air pollution, one of the earliest harbingers of the environmental crisis, is still one of the most widespread, and obvious indications of environmental abuse. Despite early awareness and definition of the problem progress in control and abatement has been markedly slow. The author traces the history of state and federal government roles in control of stationary source air pollution through the Air Quality Act of 1967 and the Clean Air Amendments of 1970. The standard-setting and enforcement provisions of the federal legislation have gradually become more effective as the delays of previous legislation have been eliminated and the enforcement provisions, increasingly placed in federal hands, have become stronger. Although addressed narrowly to stationary source air pollution, this review of regulation attempts provides a case-study of environmental regulation and of those common problems that beset regulation efforts throughout the environmental field.
24113962|Nuclear waste policymaking evokes heated debate. The 1990 designation of Yucca Mountain, Nevada as the sole site to be considered for a nuclear waste repository instigated a fierce and continuing political war between the state of Nevada and the Department of Energy. In the most recent battle, Nevada v. Department of Energy, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals found for the Department of Energy on a funding issue. This case is significant, not simply because of the issue that it decided, but because it represents the latest in a long line of decisions testing the constitutional viability of federal nuclear waste policies.
24114746|The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer successfully halted the destruction of the earth's ozone layer by banning the production of most ozone-depleting chemicals. Some of these chemicals, however, are not yet replaceable and have been deemed "essential" and qualify for "critical use exemptions." One such chemical is methyl bromide, an important product for agriculture. Each year, countries requiring methyl bromide for agricultural purposes must submit a critical use nomination to the signatory parties of the Protocol. The parties as a whole then approve a certain quantity of methyl bromide use for each nominating country. This Note evaluates the litigation that arose out of the United States' first methyl bromide critical use petition and exemption. The EPA violated specific terms of a Decision of the Montreal Protocol Parties by allowing farmers to use more methyl bromide than allowed by the Protocol signatories. The Natural Resources Defense Council sued the EPA, claiming that the United States violated international law by violating the treaty. The EPA argued that the document detailing the methyl bromide critical use exemption process is not part of the Protocol, and thus should not be taken into consideration by the court. The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with the EPA, holding that the matter is a political issue, and thus not within its realm of interpretation. The decision, Natural Resources Defense Council v. Environmental Protection Agency (NRDC v. EPA), is particularly notable in two respects. First, the court admitted that the United States used more methyl bromide than allowed by the Protocol Parties. Second, the court considered the possibility that a multilateral treaty can be unconstitutional by virtue of excessive delegation to an international organization. The NRDC v. EPA decision marked the first time that a court has examined the constitutionality of international delegations of legislative power, even though it has been a topic of academic debate for years. This Note argues that the court's finding of nonjusticiability was the best decision under the circumstances, but that the EPA, which is charged with protecting the environment, did not conduct itself reasonably in its interpretation of the critical use exemption. However, the relevant portions of the Montreal Protocol and the accompanying portions of the Clean Air Act should be left as they are, eliminating any temptation of a future court to find the Protocol's structure and procedures unconstitutional, however unlikely that outcome may be.
24111417|Many environmental laws such as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and the Clean Air Act rely heavily on state agencies for their enforcement. In California, the State Water Resources Control Board is currently involved in a dispute with the federal government over the proper allocation of California's water resources. In this dispute the federal Bureau of Reclamation contends that it has the sole right to determine how water from its projects is used. Its argument is grounded in interpretation of the legislative intent manifested in the various reclamation statutes. In this Comment the author discusses the history of California's reclamation projects and argues that the State Water Resources Control Board is the appropriate agency to control the water made available by these projects.
24114645|This Comment analyzes a small town's efforts to regulate its municipal water supply by enacting a moratorium on new connections. The Comment relates the history of the policy, discusses the legal underpinnings of a water moratorium, and explores the effects of the moratorium. The Comment then discusses attributes of the moratorium, especially as it concerns the use of a formal governmental body to apportion rights, and queries why the moratorium has remained in place for nearly four decades. Finding that the moratorium represents a rational but imperfect response to scarcity of a critical natural resource, the Comment proposes a regime of tradable rights in water as a means of increasing efficiency in resource allocation while overcoming the institutional, legal, and societal deadlock perpetuated by the moratorium.
24112476|In this Article on the state regulatory systems controlling the production of crude oil in the United States, Professor Vafai asserts that this vital, nonrenewable natural resource is being wasted by unscientific production policies. Focusing primarily on Texasthe leading oil-producing statehe examines the regulation of production through market-demand prorationing, and shows why this technique fails in its purported goal of petroleum conservation. He also examines a more efficient scientific technique for oil production control, but indicates why the present confused statutory framework of incongruities, exemptions, and special rules prohibits effective implementation of this needed conservation mechanism.
44321156|Prior to 2005, the Environmental Protection Agency had a long-standing policy that the statutory exemption from regulation of oil and gas facilities did not include the emission of sediment from related construction activities. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 changed the definition of "oil and gas facilities" to include these related activities. Essentially reasoning that such expansion of the Clean Water Act would be meaningless unless it applied to the most common emission from construction activitiessedimentEPA changed its policy to exempt some types of sediment from regulation. The Natural Resources Defense Council challenged this new policy, arguing that this change was arbitrary and capricious due to the long-standing nature of the previous policy, such that the new policy was an "impermissible interpretation." In NRDC v. EPA, the Ninth Circuit agreed in a split decision. This Note suggests that the Ninth Circuit did not properly apply Chevron deference and overstepped its bounds by becoming a policy-making body. While EPA's rule may not be environmentally optimal, EPA is a political branch. Where, as here, the mandate from Congress is ambiguous, EPA should be held accountable by the voters, not by the courts. Since the interpretation was reasonable on its face, it should have been upheld.
24113483|Numerous laws and policies claim to further the environmental right to know, and demands for disclosure of environmental information are made on the basis of this putative right. But although the right is often asserted, it is rarely scrutinized. In this article, I draw on the interest theory of rights to identify the interests underlying various manifestations of the environmental right to know in law and policy. I argue that the importance of the right can only be explained by its connection to more fundamental values and interests, such as interests in intellectual freedom, personal liberty, self-government, and human health. By investigating the interests that justify the right, we can better understand its implications in two respects. First, an interest analysis clarifies the various disclosure obligations of both government and industry. It can also lead to some surprising conclusions. For example, in some cases, interests in personal liberty and self-government may provide stronger support for disclosure of environmental information than health and environmental interests. Second, the assessment of right-to-know interests in particular contexts helps resolve conflicts created by competing claims to nondisclosure of environmental information. In the final section of the article, I analyze two such conflicts: free-speech objections to state labeling laws requiring disclosure of environmental information and trade secret objections to public disclosure of information concerning chemical substances.
24112341|The Michigan Environmental Protection Act was the first statute to provide for citizen suits to protect the environment from degradation by either public or private entities and to provide a broad scope for court adjudication. The federal Clean Air Act and Water Pollution Control Amendments, as well as several state statutes, have followed the Michigan Act's lead. The Act's success or failure is an important harbinger of the fate of the environmental movement, because the breadth of its mandate tests the utility of the judicial process as an instrument for environmental protection. In this Article the draftsman of the Michigan Act reviews the first three years of its implementation. The authors find that the Act has received relatively little substantive interpretation, but that a considerable volume of litigation has occurred without the dire consequences which some had predicted. Encouraging developments discussed include the unexpected frequency with which public agencies have invoked the Act and the able and concerned efforts of many judges to protect the public interest in the environment.
44321073|Much of the risk perception literature relies on the important but unstated assumption that manipulating public opinion to conform to scientific assessments of risk could help the public and, in turn, policymakers make better decisions about whether and how to regulate. This Article argues that the assumption fails in the context of certain "multilayered" risks, or risks that pose tiered policy choices, for which the question is not just whether to regulate, but how to respond to derivative risks arising from the first set of regulatory changes. Examining the debate about the role of nuclear power in the United States' response to climate change, the Article observes that firstand second-tier risks often differ in character, or require different types of regulatory solutions (market-based versus command-and-control). Due to these variations, the public may hold starkly different views about regulation of each tier, and those views may be differently "sticky"that is, differently susceptible to persuasion. In the context of the nuclear power debate, this tiering of opinion has perverse implications. The first-tier risks of nuclear power are those associated with individual reactors, including the risks of accident or terrorist attack; the second-tier risks are those associated with mining, transport, processing, storage, and disposal of radioactive materials. Recent work asserts that despite entrenched public fear of nuclear power, it may be possible to induce people to support construction of low-emissions reactors as a strategy for mitigating climate change. But even if policymakers could employ the risk education strategies discussed in the literature to shift public opinion in favor of nuclear reactor development, there is no reason to think such strategies would be equally effective at changing attitudes toward the second-tier risks of radioactive materials and the command-and-control regulations necessary to address those risks. To the contrary, many people would likely continue to oppose certain types of government action on these derivative problems, even assuming complete success of the hypothetical first-tier education strategy and resulting support for expansion of nuclear facilities. As a result, the United States could find itself with a thriving nuclear power sector, but without the political will to address the grave collateral risks. These observations lead to two conclusions, one related to the nuclear power example, and one to risk regulation more broadly. First, differently sticky public attitudes toward first-and second-tier nuclear risks and their regulatory solutions may defeat any effort to respond to climate change via an increase in U.S. reliance on nuclear power. Second, efforts to change public risk perceptions may not advance a regulatory agenda, and may even prove counterproductive. Specifically, where multiple risk layers exist, a successful first-tier education effort and consequent policy changes could create or expose second-tier risks that defy regulatory solution, leaving policymakers stranded at the abrupt and unexpected end of a half-built bridge. Depending on the gravity of the second-tier risks, this regulatory dead end could be one that neither policymakers nor the public would have chosen beforehand.
24111341|The current debate over standing doctrines has focused attention on the procedural techniques available to assist environmentalists in obtaining judicial review of both public and private acts having environmentally degrading effects. This Comment analyzes the usefulness of class actions under rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in accomplishing this task. After noting some abuses of this procedural device in early environmental actions, the author assesses its viability from the standpoint of both economic theory and practical litigation strategy. Examination of the results of recent environmental class actions indicates the pitfalls that environmental attorneys must avoid in order to maintain class suits successfully. The author concludes by advocating wider use of the class action in environmental suits because of its public policy attributes.
24115061|This Article, part of a larger project analyzing how far public and private contracting arrangements should go in constraining democratic decisionmaking, examines whether the United States should be liable under the Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment when its actions have the effect of destroying or impairing private contract rights. In the Omnia Commercial case, decided ninety years ago, the Supreme Court ruled that private contract rights represent "property" within the meaning of the Takings Clause, and that the courts should resolve the issue of whether such property has been "taken " by assessing whether the government has "appropriated" the contract interest (resulting in a taking), or merely "frustrated" it (not resulting in a taking). While Omnia Commercial reflects a sound intuition that private contract rightss deserve special treatment under the Takings Clause, the appropriation versus frustration standard has no principled foundation and is irreconcilable with modern takings standards. In place of the Omnia Commercial standard, this Article suggests that the Supreme Court should adopt a two-part analysis. First, rather than treat all private contract rights as a form of "property, " the Court should only treat the direct contractual commitments between the parties as property. Accordingly, only when the government has inserted itself into the parties ' contractual relations, by taking over the contract benefits of one of the parties, or by transferring the benefits to some new party, should the government be regarded as having impinged on "property" in a fashion that could potentially support a taking claim. Second, the Court should conclude that a government action impinging on contract-based property generally results in a taking only when the action imposes a net economic burden on the contracting parties, considered together as a single unit. On the other hand, a taking claim should fail if the government action does not impose a net economic burden on the parties. This standard will avoid conferring a taxpayer-financed windfall on private contracting parties and preserve democratic prerogatives, while placing on the parties the responsibility to negotiate ex ante over how to allocate between themselves the risk of an
24114545|The precautionary principle is included in many international environmental laws, but there is little consensus regarding its meaning and how it should be incorporated into governmental decisionmaking. With a focus on a landmark lawsuit in Brazil that prevented the federal government from approving the use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in commercial agriculture, this article analyzes how national courts should apply the precautionary principle. The article argues that the precautionary principle is best understood to mean that decisionmakers should identify and consider risks with caution when faced with scientific uncertainty about potentially serious environmental harms and that courts should apply the precautionary principle as a procedural requirement when they review governmental decisions. The article contributes to a growing literature about compliance with international environmental norms and the role of national courts in the international legal system.
24115311|It is likely that environmental groups will view the Endangered Species Act as a legal tool for forcing action on climate change. This Comment examines the standard for proving causation under section 7 and section 9 of the ESA, and analyzes potential barriers to proving that an entity has violated section 7 or section 9 by contributing to climatic changes that harm a listed species. Plaintiffs face two hurdles under section 7. Given the current models of climate change, defendants have ample evidence to argue that the present concentration of greenhouse gases is such that climate change will occur for many years. As a result, defendants can argue that past actions, not present actions, cause climate change. Furthermore, a defendant can argue that the emissions from a proposed action do not contribute significantly to climate change, and thus do not result in jeopardy. Proving causation under section 9 is also problematic. First, the sheer number of sources of greenhouse gas emissions poses a problem because of the traditional requirement that an entity be liable for harm only if its conduct is a substantial factor in bringing about the harm. Further, the persistence of greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere makes it even more difficult to establish that any given emitter's emissions are a substantial factor in causing climate change harm. Third, it is nearly impossible to trace the lifecycle of greenhouse gas emissions from a particular source, which renders it virtually impossible to trace particular emissions to particular climate change harms. Despite these obstacles, and in the aftermath of Massachusetts v. EPA, a plaintiff may still be able to make a reasonable argument that an action causes harm to a listed species. The question remains, howeverhow much greenhouse gas emissions are enough to satisfy a court's legal standard for causation under the ESA?
24114751|The 2006 Ninth Circuit decision Northern Alaska Environmental Center v. Kempthorne held that the Bureau of Land Management could move forward with a plan to issue oil and gas leases on the largest tract of untouched federal land in Alaska without conducting a site-specific Environmental Impact Statement. The court held that site-specific analysis could be deferred until the actual sites where oil and gas drilling would take place are known. This Note argues that Kempthorne misapplies prior National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) caselaw and subverts the core purposes of NEPA. Prior caselaw and NEPA itself dictate that environmental impacts must be assessed before a government agency irreversibly and irretrievably commits resources. The decision undermines the purposes of NEPA by discouraging agencies from taking an actual "hard look" at environmental impacts; by not requiring a holistic analysis of such impacts; and by limiting the role of public input in the process.
24114613|On August 10, 2005, Congress passed the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), the largest public works bill in U.S. history. SAFETEA-LU provides almost $300 billion to fund six years of highway and public transit projects sponsored by the U.S. Department of Transportation, and it includes the planning, technological, environmental, and safety policy goals for the U.S. transportation system. SAFETEA-LU also represents the successful culmination of the push to "streamline" the environmental review process for transportation projects. "Streamlining" supporters claim the new procedures will speed the often-lengthy time from project initiation to project completion without compromising environmental protection. While some of the streamlining changes enacted in SAFETEA-LU may improve efficiency while still protecting the environment, this Comment argues that most of the changes will either sacrifice the environment and public participation to move projects faster, or fail to improve timeframes and environmental protection by ignoring the true reasons for delay. Streamlining impacts the procedures transportation agencies use to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), which requires all federal agencies to document the environmental impacts of their projects, and section 4(f), a law specific to transportation agencies for protection of historic sites and parklands. Changes that create new limits on judicial review, redefine how transportation agencies interact with natural resource agencies, and limit the involvement of the public in determining project alternatives all undercut the goals of environmental protection. Overall, the streamlining in SAFETEA-LU reflects the largely negative attitude toward environmental review prevalent among project developers, who feel that the NEPA and section 4(f) review processes add little to a project. This stance ignores the positive effects environmental review can provide, such as increased public support and a more environmentally-sensitive project. SAFETEA-LU was an opportunity for Congress to mandate streamlining changes to environmental review that would make environmental review more meaningful for project developers and more beneficial for communities. Techniques such as context sensitive solutions, adaptive management, and environmental management systems all have the potential to improve the process from both a development and an environmental perspective. Integrating planning and environmental review would address potential areas of conflict early in the processes, allowing projects to move forward with less opposition and with more built-in environmental mitigation. While Congress missed the chance to advance these procedures in SAFETEA-LU, some transportation agencies have already begun to implement them. This Comment concludes by advocating that future streamlining efforts focus on making environmental review a useful instrument for both developers and the public: a tool that protects the environment without causing unnecessary delays.
24111303|The present governmental approach toward solving the pollution crisis is inadequate for several reasons. The costs of eliminating pollution entirely are astronomical, and many of these costs must be borne by private industry. In this Perspective, the author maintains that some degree of cooperation among industrial competitors is essential to keep the cost to a manageable level and to prevent duplication of efforts. The existing governmental policy of using antitrust law to inhibit cooperation in antipollution research and development is detrimental to the public interest and therefore must be re-evaluated in light of the realistic possibilities of pollution elimination.
24111413|Appropriate environmental controls depend partially on the public choice of control jurisdiction. The ability and desire of local and state jurisdictions to implement and maintain appropriate environmental controls has generally been underestimated. Many arguments against local control are misleading, including arguments based on the competition of localities for industry, and the economic transport of pollution damage effects outside a local jurisdiction. Arguments for national control on the basis of technical arguments for a uniform national pollution tax may be misleading. But agency authority should be broad enough to encompass important interjurisdictional pollution, and to realize scale economies in pollution control. To achieve these ends, a considerably greater integration and expansion of agency control of water resources is required. However, in important cases an appropriate reformation of the property right system for water resources can reduce the number of required agency tasks. More generally, the nature of property rights questions is shown to be of considerable importance to the efficiency of any resource control program and inseparable from jurisdictional questions in general. Legislation and agency regulations have a tendency to be overly uniform. Undue uniformity can result in increased abatement costs. Pressure group imbalances can also produce regulations or legislation that are overly lenient or unduly severe. The present federal automobile emission control program results in both equity and efficiency losses. A two car standard, under which different standards would be set for urban and rural areas, is administratively feasible. Such a system would generate considerable cost saving as well as greater equity. In addition, the 1975 and 1976 clean air emission standards for automobiles may be unwarranted at the present time. The final section develops the theoretical and empirical framework of the earlier sections into a series of consistent jurisdictional recommendations for both water and air resources. Finally, the political realism of these recommendations is examined.
24111416|The world is running out of fish. The law which is supposed to govern the world's ocean fisheries has nearly collapsed and shows few signs of early regeneration. Still, despite the current paralysis of regulation by international law, the problems of marine fisheries are not beyond all help. The fisheries situation is a good example of an area where an International Sea Service, as proposed by the government of Malta, could play a valuable role. This Comment surveys some of the legal difficulties frustrating fisheries management and then discusses the Sea Service as a means of helping to overcome them, both under present law and under the Maltese proposals, scheduled for consideration at the 1974 Law of the Sea Conference in Caracas.
24115062|The National Trails System Act permits railroad companies and trail managers to preserve unwanted railroad corridors in perpetuity by converting them into recreational trails. If railroad use ever became desirable againdecades or centuries into the futurethen a railroad may request permission to restore these linear parks back to a railroad corridor. Oftentimes, the railroad originally received only an easement to cross private or public lands for railroad purposes. In Preseault v. Interstate Commerce Commission, Justice O'Connor explained that if the original railroad interest was an easement limited to railroad purposes, the Trails Act does not merely delay a landowner's right to claim his property, but effectively defeats his property rights, which implicates the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. And the Federal Circuit in Preseault v. United States held that the intended use of running locomotives for the transportation of people and commerce is simply and fundamentally different from establishing linear parks for hiking, biking, picnicking and horseback riding. Accordingly, when implementing the Trails Act and authorizing trail use on private property, the United States must pay just compensation to the landowner. This Article sets out the courts' well-settled reasoning for finding the United States liable in a rails-to-trails takings case, and further explains why the United States' most recent effort to reformulate the settled analysis is misguided under established precedent.
24111377|Land use controls loom large among suggested solutions to a variety of environmental problems. Numerous states and the federal government are presently considering the adoption of comprehensive regulatory schemes to limit uncontrolled development of remaining open areas. In the past three years, California has enacted several new statutes designed to make local jurisdictions more attentive to the environmental ramifications of their land use planning and decisions. This Comment examines the current debate on land use controls by focusing on the particular problem of mountain subdivisions. The common law has proved unable to provide remedies for this type of development, and analysis of the recent regulatory devices adopted in California indicates that they are only a partial answer. The author recommends regional and statewide controls as the only realistic solution to the land use crisis.
24114304|The Eleventh Circuit case Tennessee Valley Authority v. Environmental Protection Agency offers prudential standing to third-party power companies who claim that an economic interest of theirs has been affected by an EPA action in connection with enforcement of the Clean Air Act. This economic interest is not listed in the statute as an interest to be considered in the course of Clean Air Act enforcement decisions; however, because economic interests are mentioned as a viable consideration at some point in the Act, the threat of injury to those interests is sufficient to confer standing to sue over an action taken in the course of enforcement of a different part of the Act.
24114224|Since its enactment in 1973, the Endangered Species Act (ESA) has enjoyed considerable judicial deference, yet attacks on its constitutionality have arisen recently in the wake of Lopez and Morrison. In the latest cases, Rancho Viejo and GDF Realty, the D.C. and Fifth Circuits considered Commerce Clause attacks on the ESA. While both upheld the ESA, the courts used different rationales, diverging in their definition of the "regulated activity" for the purpose of ascertaining the impact on interstate commerce. This note concludes that Congress does and should have the authority to regulate intrastate species pursuant to its Commerce Clause powers, under the theory that deleterious effects on biodiversity substantially affect interstate commerce. Furthermore, Congress has the authority to regulate when a "race to the bottom" between states is likely to occur.
24112381|While the Clean Air Act is now the subject of heated congressional debate, and relaxation of some of its provisions appears likely, regulation of air pollution sources undoubtedly will continue. Although public pressure to date has focused largely upon formulating proper regulations and structures to enforce those regulations, the future of air pollution control will be determined in large part by the the effectiveness with which applicable rules are enforced. In this Article, the authors present an empirical study which may provide a model for citizen groups to use in monitoring air pollution control in the coming years.
24114258|In Defenders of Wildlife v. Norton, the Ninth Circuit addressed what meaning should be attributed to the phrase, "throughout all or a significant portion of its range," contained in the Endangered Species Act's definition of endangered species. While the court rejected the interpretations proposed by the parties, it declined to identify a precise definition for the term. How the Secretary of the Interior construes this term will have important consequences for species' ability to gain protection under the ESA. An appropriate reading will be heavily grounded in the context of the surrounding statutory language, and will allow a certain amount of leeway for ESA listing decisions to account for the biological and ecological needs of individual species.
24114609|The Clean Water Act has been one of the most successful keystone environmental statutes of the past three decades. Much of the Act's effectiveness in cleaning up the nation's waterways can be attributed to its public participation and citizen suit provisions, which have filled gaps in the often reluctant enforcement capabilities of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies. Despite the importance of public participation to the Act, the EPA has gradually cut back on citizen input at the same time it expands its regulatory scheme to important sources of pollution such as storm water runoff. In Texas Independent Producers & Royalty Owners Ass'n v. EPA, the Seventh Circuit created a circuit split on this emerging issue when it departed from the holdings of the Second and Ninth Circuits that required public notice and comment on individual operator's permits despite the existence of an overarching "general permit" system. This Note explores the circuit courts' conflicting analyses, the larger context of the public participation debate surrounding pollution regulation, and also suggests potential middle ground for the Court and policy makers to consider for the resolution of a question critical to the continued success of the Clean Water Act.
24114642|Brett Frischmann's 2005 Economic Theory of Infrastructure argues that certain important resources should be governed not by a property regime but by a regime that incorporates open, nondiscriminatory access. His theory works well for information and the Internet, as well as for some aspects of antitrust, and has received a warm reception by scholars in these fields. It is not as apt for natural resources and environmental services. Unlike information, most natural resources are congestible. Managing congestible resources requires more than a principle of nondiscriminatory access, and must account for negative externalities, in a complex and resource-specific analysis. In the Essay published in this volume, Frischmann's theory has been refined to account for environmental infrastructure in more detail; the principle of open, nondiscriminatory access gradually recedes behind the complex considerations of managing competing uses of each resource. The original kernel of Frischmann's theory remains helpful in some other ways, however. By stressing the pervasive uncertainty of downstream benefits from the use and reuse of information, Frischmann's theory suggests that the environmentalists' project to quantify the value of ecosystem services and create markets in ecosystem services cannot be applied to information, as some advocates of cultural environmentalism appear to assert. At the same time, Frischmann's focus on the importance of making vital renewable resources available to downstream users, including users in subsequent generations, corresponds in a perhaps surprising way to feminist and communitarian theories of interpersonal obligations about sharing resources. Frischmann's theory may therefore help to lay the groundwork for a feminist analysis of intergenerational environmental obligations.
24114130|The United States Supreme Court invalidated the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) attempt to regulate tobacco under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA). The significance of this decision for environmental purposes is in the Court's altered application of the long-standing two-step Chevron Doctrine. Rather than turn to the plain meaning of the statute, the Court expanded Chevron's first step to include the "context" of the regulatory scheme. By expanding the interpretive tools under Chevron's step one, the Court could determine Congressional intent without having to reach the "reasonableness" of the FDA's decision under step two. Without the deference principle typically afforded under Chevron's second step, attempts by environmental agencies to assert authority in uncharted areas of regulation may be significantly jeopardized.
24114299|In Babbitt v. Sweet Home Chapter of Communities for a Great Oregon, the United States Supreme Court held that indirect injury to an endangered or threatened species through habitat modification could constitute a "take" for purposes of the Endangered Species Act. In Arizona Cattle Growers Association v. U.S. Fish & Wildlife, the Ninth Circuit robbed this holding of much, if not all, of its significance. The U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (FWS) had determined that cattle grazing on certain federally managed range lands would indirectly take listed species through disruption of stream flows, sedimentation, destruction of foraging area, and other habitat degradation. It therefore issued incidental take statements (ITSs) for species in those areas, and set terms and conditions on the cattle ranchers' use that would halt or limit the destruction. The Ninth Circuit, stepping into the shoes of FWS biologists, invalidated the statements, finding no rational connection between the scientific data and the conclusion that takes would occur as a result of the cattle grazing. According to the Court of Appeal, FWS had acted arbitrarily and capriciously, both in issuing the ITSs, and in broadly defining the conditions and terms of use. The court's opinion suggest three new limitations on FWS's ability to demonstrate takes: (1) the listed species' presence on the land under review at the time the ITS is issued must be documented; (2) the species must be immediately and directly susceptible to injury from the proposed activity; and (3) the terms of the ITS must provide a specific, directly quantifiable standard for determining compliance. This Note suggests that these three conditions will prevent FWS from issuing ITSs in instances of habitat degradation, will undermine its scientific authority in general, and will lead to a further erosion of the protections envisioned by Congress when it passed the Endangered Species Act.
24114759|This Comment explores the role played by various types of international tribunals in resolving natural resources disputes. After an examination of four disputes in Latin America, the Comment concludes that the current international system, in which multiple tribunals may have jurisdiction over the same issue, is a net benefit for the environment and society.
24114260|In 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments, Congress mandated the addition of an oxygenate to gasoline in an attempt to improve air quality. However, using methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE), the most frequently added oxygenate, has created another environmental problem: water contamination. Private individuals and public water utilities are suing oil companies to remedy MTBE water contamination, and some oil companies have successfully raised preemption arguments to escape liability for contamination. This comment argues that judges should not be persuaded by these preemption arguments; oil companies should be responsible for remedying MTBE contamination.
24112384|Experience with administrative law suggests that agencies regulate most effectively only when public attention is focused on their activities. Recognizing this, environmental activists have thus far relied extensively on public pressure to urge regulation, although environmental preservation involves a complex blend of technical disciplines. This Comment discusses aircraft emissionsa problem whose engineering and scientific complexities often contradict common-sense conclusions. In surveying this little-understood part of the national air pollution problem, the author indicates how ineffective public pressure has been in formulating a complete solution and how it initially aggravated the problem, only later to succumb to a clean-air masquerade. The author analyzes both legal and technological progress and problems in controlling aircraft emissions, discusses weaknesses in the current enforcement scheme, and suggests alternatives for future regulation that are consistent with air pollution reduction and fuel conservation.
24114959|Over the past decade, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and states have developed environmental leadership programs (ELPs), a type of voluntary environmental program designed to recognize facilities with strong environmental performance records and encourage all facilities to perform better. Proponents argue that ELPs overcome some of the limitations of traditional environmental regulation by encouraging managers to address the full gambit of environmental problems posed by their facilities, reducing the costs of environmental regulation, easing adversarialism, and fostering positive culture change. Although ELPs have been in place for much of the last decade at the federal and state level, these programs have been subject to little empirical evaluation. In this Article, we chart a course for assessing whether ELPs achieve their goals. Drawing on archival research and interviews with government officials who manage these programs, we provide the first comprehensive analysis of the characteristics of these programs, describing program goals, activities, communication strategies, and data collection practices. We find that EPA and many states have established ELPs to improve the environment and to achieve various social goals such as improving relationships between business and government. When it comes to collecting data that could be used to assess these programs' successes, however, government efforts fall short. Even when agencies collect reliable data, these data usually cannot be aggregated sensibly and are insufficient to draw inferences about the true impact of these programs. They also cannot help answer the question of whether ELPs are actually prompting pollution reductions or improving regulatory relationships. These general data weaknesses are significant, even surprising, given the aspirations for ELPs to facilitate policy learning and advocates' claims that these programs are delivering important environmental benefits.
24114136|The 1989 Basel Convention Treaty regulates the transboundary movement and disposal of hazardous wastes. In 1999, the Parties to the Convention negotiated and reached agreement upon a significant new Protocol on Liability and Compensation. The Protocol is the first mechanism in international environmental law to assign liability and provide adequate and prompt compensation for damages resulting from hazardous waste trade. The Protocol lacks teeth, however, and has yet to enter into force. The United States remains a non-signatory to both the initial Treaty and the liability Protocol largely because industry and environmental criticism of the Treaty and Protocol and a current lack of political will create disincentives for U.S. ratification. This lack of support from the world's leading generator of hazardous wastes poses a clear threat to the potential success of the Basel Treaty and Protocol.
24115070|Environmental review statutes like the National Environmental Policy Act and the California Environmental Quality Act require that an agency review a proposed action for significant environmental impacts. In order to do so, agencies must choose a baseline or "status quo" that serves as a basis for comparison, allowing the agency to assess the existence and importance of any potential environmental impacts. In March 2010, the California Supreme Court held that under the California Environmental Quality Act existing conditions set the baseline, and permits to develop or emit at a certain level cannot set the baseline, absent other evidence. Federal courts should apply the existing conditions rule to the National Environmental Policy Act and prohibit baselines based on permitted rights. The existing conditions rule is consistent with National Environmental Policy Act precedent and the environmental purpose of National Environmental Policy Act, and promotes critical accuracy and transparency in the review process.
24114641|This essay explores how my recent work on infrastructure and commons applies to environmental resources. Part I briefly describes the core idea, which is developed extensively elsewhere. Part II suggests how it might apply to the natural environment, touching on a number of interesting implications in need of further exploration. Specifically, Part II (a) frames the difficult environmental valuation and management problems; (b) applies the infrastructure criteria and delineates environmental infrastructure; (c) offers a few insights regarding environmental management and regulation; and (d) considers how infrastructure theory relates to the literatures on ecosystem services and multiple use management.
24113482|Health, safety, and environmental regulation in the United States are saturated with risk thinking. It was not always so, and it may not be so in the future. But today, the formal, quantitative approach to risk provides much of the basis for regulation in these fields, a development that seems quite natural, even necessary. This particular approach, while it drew on conceptual and technical developments that had been underway for decades, achieved prominence during a relatively short timeframe; roughly, between the mid-1970s and the early 1980sa time of hard looks and regulatory reform. Prior to this time, formal conceptions of risk were rarely invoked in the effort to regulate the increasingly complex set of hazards associated with industrial society and quantitative risk assessment was considered too uncertain to serve as a basis for regulatory decision making. With few exceptions, safety, hazard, and endangerment provided the dominant framings, drawing on different conceptual and normative tendencies and leading to different regulatory outcomes. This Article investigates the emergence and development of formal approaches to risk in health, safety, and environmental law during the twentieth century. It focuses specifically on the concepts, tools, and practices that have underwritten risk thinking in these fields, developing a perspective on health, safety, and environmental regulation that seeks to historicize risk and situate the contemporary debate regarding the merits of risk versus precaution in its proper historical context. In doing so, the Article demonstrates how both approaches struggled to address the much more vast and complicated world of potential environmental harm brought into view as a result of substantial advances in analytical techniques during the 1960s and early 1970s, thereby revealing the contours of a more fundamental clash over environmental law's distinctive problem of knowledge. The Article covers the formative period from the New Deal through the 1970s, showing how efforts to operationalize safety in the middle decades of the twentieth century led to many of the foundational concepts and techniques that would structure risk thinking in subsequent decades, highlighting the critical role of analytical advances in pushing toward a redefinition of safety as acceptable risk and a corresponding move toward quantitative risk assessment, and revealing how earlier precautionary impulses were ultimately subsumed under an emerging administrative law of risk.
24114961|Emissions trading schemes for the regulation of GHG emissions have captured much attention in the United States and in many other countries. New Zealand's national scheme is arguably the most ambitious in the world to date. It takes a pioneering approach to coverage, linkage into the international markets, allocation of emissions units, and speed of implementation. In a world-first, it covers both the agriculture and forestry sectors. This Article describes the New Zealand scheme in its context and analyzes its advantages and pitfalls. It also investigates the broader implications of the New Zealand example as a model for climate change regulation elsewhere.
24114259|The development of the Public Trust Doctrine in the United States has led to varying state obligations with regard to water and other natural resources. The State of Hawai`i's Public Trust Doctrine jurisprudence recognizes an unusually broad range of public interests in water. The Hawai`i State Supreme Court's decision In re Water Use Permit Applications (Waihole) stands as a milestone in the long legal battle over water on O`ahu, and has resulted in a broad articulation of the Public Trust Doctrine. In Waihole, the Court applied the doctrine to all fresh waters, including ground water, and furthermore required the State to account for domestic and native uses in administering the water trust. Although this decision does mandate a doctrine with a greater reach than in any other jurisdiction, and is distinguishable from other jurisdictions because of its basis in Hawai`i's unique legal history, Waihole does not radically deviate from Hawai`i's Public Trust Doctrine jurisprudence, and may influence the Public Trust Doctrine in other states.
24114047|The protection of biodiversity is necessary to preserve Earth's life support system. Adoption of land use policies to achieve such protection arguably constitutes the greatest environmental challenge to this problem, nearly invisible to the public and refractory to traditional regulatory approaches, that the world will face this century. Although multiple reasons, both practical and moral, exist for caring about the accelerating rate of species and habitat loss, intrinsic characteristics of ecosystem degradation render environmental protection. The U.S. Endangered Species Act, along with public land protection, is necessary but not sufficient to preserve biodiversity. Private lands are a public value, requiring landscape-scale planning to preserve the public interest.
24114228|Defenders of Wildlife v. Hogarth illustrates the conflict over domestic and international efforts to address dolphin mortalities associated with the Eastern Pacific tuna fishery. In upholding a rule promulgated by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), the court effectively contravened the International Dolphin Conservation Program Act (IDCPA), a duly enacted Congressional statute. As a dissenting judge stated, this holding "permits a new form of uneasy and illegitimate partnership between Congress and executive agencies that has previously been rejected by the United States Supreme Court." An analysis reveals that the decision does not follow canons of traditional statutory interpretation or the Supremacy Clause. The effects of this decision are to allow agency interpretations to trump their enabling statutes and to weaken the domestic dolphin protection regime.
24115124|The reservoir created by damming a river and the dam itself contribute to a host of adverse environmental effects. These environmental harms would not occur in the same quantity or quality but for the existence of the dam-reservoir construct. In many cases, these environmental harms manifest in the form of pollutants that may be discharged by dam operations to the downstream waters. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permits should therefore be required for dam discharge. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, however, has refused to regulate dam discharge under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, relying on a 1982 D.C. Circuit opinion, National Wildlife Federation v. Gorsuch. More recent court opinions, scientific studies, and the Environmental Protection Agency's own water quality regulations have undermined Gorsuch. The time has come, therefore, to follow the statutory requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System by regulating dam discharge accordingly.
24115036|The EPA is shifting its air quality regulation platform from traditional "command and control" to market-based "cap and trade." Environmental Defense v. Duke Energy Corp. opens a window on this changing agenda. Duke Energy asked whether EPA had the flexibility to interpret the same term ("modification ") differently in two sections of the Clean Air Act, where the term was defined by cross-reference between the two uses. The Court found in favor of EPA, ruling that a term could be interpreted differently, depending on the context. Yet despite that holding, EPA promoted a policy that disregarded the Court's decision. Instead of using the two separate interpretations of "modification" that the Court upheld, EPA attempted to unify the interpretations by proposing a less stringent rule. This Note suggests that EPA's action was more accurately an attempt to marginalize the Clean Air Act's Prevention of Significant Deterioration program, as it applies to modified sources, and instead rely solely on cap and trade regulations to govern power plant modifications. As such, EPA's rule was an attempt to use agency regulations to override congressional intentthat PSD apply to power plant modifications. That action would have exceeded the authorization granted in Duke Energy and not withstood judicial review.
24111393|Industrial societies cannot easily eliminate dependency on oil as an energy source, but they can mitigate the harmful results of fossil fuel addiction. Besides air pollution and major oil spills, a prime environmental cost of oil consumption is improper disposal of waste oil. Slow acting bureaucracies and red tape contribute to the problem and provide little incentive for proper regulation. In this article, the authors note some of the hazards of improper disposal of waste oil and describe Germany's attempt to alleviate the problem. The Federal Republic of Germany has developed a fairly efficient system of waste oil regulation which includes government financial support for proper disposal of used oil and tax incentives to use regenerated oil. They also note some of the law's defects and suggest improvements. Although the idea of such regulation is known to other industrial nations, to date few have acted on it.
24114590|Conservation activists and scientists agree that loss and alteration of habitat are the leading threats to biodiversity in America. Suburbs and exurbs, though, are only beginning to acknowledge that they are a problem in the struggle to stem the tide of "sprawl" and other economic processes producing ecosystem-wide habitat degradation today. Recently, academics and activists have begun to reconsider local governments in America as viable solutions to this problem. But most of this dialogue is based upon a mistaken conception of local governance. Much of the legal scholarship on local environmentalism has ignored the reality of our localism and its role in creating the ever-expanding built landscape in America. This Article argues that this lack of realism in the current debate about local environmental law renders the debate blind not only to the vices of local governments and some of their sham conservation measures, but also to their counterintuitive virtues and possibilities for real conservation progress. Although local government's deep connection to private property entrepreneurialism is what has made it so practically powerful in resisting many state and federal environmental initiatives, it may well be this dimension of our localism that renders it uniquely fit to the tasks of real habitat protection and restoration in the twenty-first century.
24111363|In the past four years state environmental legislation has often been overshadowed by more publicized federal enactments. However, much environmental degradation takes place beyond the reach of federal regulation. Several states have sought to fill this void by adopting legislation incorporating the environmental impact procedure of the National Environmental Policy Act. California did so in 1970, but its Environmental Quality Act remained quiescent until the state supreme court interpreted the Act to cover significant private as well as public projects. This Comment examines that controversial opinion and the subsequent legislative amendment of the California Environmental Quality Act. Based on the strong policy justifications favoring environmental protection advanced by the court, the author argues that the Act's new provisions must be given a liberal judicial and administrative interpretation.
24114261|As part of his administration's efforts to preserve environmentally valuable national areas for future generations, President Clinton issued two Executive Orders in late 2000 to begin the process of designating a vast tract of oceans and reefs in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands as a National Marine Sanctuary, and Congress lent some support to this effort in the National Marine Sanctuaries Amendments Act of 2000. A sanctuary of this scale is unprecedented. Clinton's use of Executive Orders as the vehicle for the creation of this Reserve, however, has left these marine resources vulnerable, and the environmental statutes cited in the EOs provide little real power to preserve the coral reefs. As a vision, the NHICRER is an important development in marine protection, but as a reality, it is far from home free.
24114516|In Wilderness Society v. United States Fish & Wildlife Service, the Ninth Circuit en banc evaluated the appropriateness of a sockeye salmon stocking project in the Kenai Wilderness of Alaska. The court held that the project violated the Wilderness Act because its purpose and effect were to aid the commercial fishing industry. The Wilderness Act explicitly prohibits commercial enterprise within wilderness areas, and so the Fish & Wildlife Service's decision to grant a special use permit was not given deference. This decision is important because it places the Wilderness Act's mandate for preservation beyond judicial deference to federal agency's land management decisions whenever there is an arguably commercial enterprise in a wilderness area. The holding also creates a presumption that activities with commercial overtones will violate the Wilderness Act even if they are benign to wilderness values.
24114129|Before Pronsolino v. Marcus, agricultural operations, timber companies, and other nonpoint source polluters were largely able to evade regulation under the Clean Water Act. As a result of this decision, all water bodies, even those polluted exclusively by nonpoint sources, now warrant Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs), state-set caps on the maximum amount of pollutant loading a waterway can tolerate and still meet water quality standards. Nevertheless, the court's conclusion will likely have little effect on the condition of the nation's waters because the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) lacks enforcement power over state TMDL programs, and state sovereignty issues preclude any efforts by EPA to compel TMDL implementation. To overcome these limitations, EPA must make the successful attainment of TMDLs a condition of federal grants to state nonpoint programs, and should prioritize funding based on a state's willingness to implement effluent trading programs or other innovative mechanisms for achieving nonpoint source reduction.
24114288|Abandoned industrial sites known as "brownfields" have created severe environmental problems across the United States, affecting public health and the livability of urban neighborhoods. This article starts from the basic proposition that citiesnot private parties, not states, and not the federal governmentare in the best position to cleanup contaminated properties within their borders. It explores the disincentives that federal Superfund law gives cities to cleanup these sites and the trouble cities have under this law recovering costs of cleanup from responsible parties. Absent congressional overhaul of Superfund, this article recommends state law solutions to supplement federal law. It shows how California's Polanco Redevelopment Act has given redevelopment agencies the ability to recover all their costs of cleanup from responsible parties and how it has enabled cities in California to cleanup brownfields within their borders.
24113963|In City of Monterey v. Del Monte Dunes, the Supreme Court passed up the opportunity to untangle takings law from substantive due process. Its decision allowed an improper act of government to stand simply by requiring payment to a landowner. By removing the substantive due process-like language and test from Agins v. City of Tiburon from the law of takings, the Court could have separated the issues of government propriety and compensation. In so doing, validity according to the Due Process Clause would become a threshold question for reaching the issue of compensation for a taking. The two areas of law, then, could function as separate, free-standing constitutional doctrines.
24112716|Historic conservation is but one aspect of the much larger problem, basically an environmental one, of enhancingor perhaps developing for the first timethe quality of life for people.
24115052|This Article examines the history of Canadian environmental law to explain why it has become a laggard in both legal reform and environmental performance. Canadian environmental law has long been of interest to scholars worldwide, yet its record is often poorly understood. The Article contrasts recent developments with the seemingly progressive initiatives of the 1970s, and analyzes these trends in light of their political, economic, and governance context, as well as the wider critiques of environmental law. It argues that there is considerable room for Canadian governments to adopt more robust methods of environmental law, including following pioneering reforms advanced in other countries. However, even with such steps, further environmental degradation might not be averted unless Canadians are prepared to accept more fundamental changes to their economic systems and social values.
24113610|Wildfire is on the rise. The United States is witnessing a spectacular increase in acres lost to catastrophic wildfires, a phenomenon fed by the generally hotter and dryer conditions associated with climate change. In addition to losses in lives, property, and natural resources, wildfires contribute thousands of tons of air pollution each year. Ironically, one of the most effective tools to reduce the incidence and severity of unplanned wildfires is fire. Prescribed, or controlled, burning reduces the buildup of vegetation resulting from years of wildfire-suppression policy. At present, the number of acres subject to prescribed burns falls far short of the optimal number needed to restore natural ecosystems and reduce damages from unplanned wildfires. Air-pollution law and policy is an important factor contributing to the under-provision of prescribed fire that has so far escaped in-depth treatment in the law and policy literature. After setting forth the relevant air quality framework, this Article argues that decisions regarding planned wildfire are marred by an anachronistic and inaccurate distinction between "natural" and "anthropogenic" fire. Rationalizing that unplanned wildfires are "natural," the federal government excludes pollutants from such fires from air quality compliance calculations at the same time it encourages states to vigorously control pollutants from "anthropogenic," prescribed fires. The result contributes to an undervaluation of necessary, planned wildfire. Wildfire air pollution policy is also hindered by governance structures that place air quality and resource agencies at odds with each other, and by state nuisance authorities that enable narrow local interests to shut down prescribed fire, all of which trump the broader public interest in reduced wildfire risk and healthier forests. This Article suggests several solutions to remove these distortions, including adopting a default rule whereby all wildfire smoke, of whatever origin, "counts" for purposes of air quality compliance. Together with adopting mechanisms to require air pollution and resource agencies to both participate in planned burning decisions and de-emphasize the influence of nuisance standards, this "smoke is smoke" rule will ensure that the air pollution policy better reflects the true costs and benefits of prescribed fire.
24112478|Preservation of the land occupies a central position in the value system of the American Indian, and the effects upon Indian tribes of the historical taking and environmental degradation of Indian lands have been profound. The Indian, however, has unique legal remedies available to recover some of his lands. This Perspective reviews the importance of land in American Indian cultures and then argues that a land patent annulment suit can be used to revoke certain early land patents, allowing recovery of the land rather than monetary damages.
24115029|The global fisheries crisis has made its way into the mainstream consciousness. Scientists, economists, fishermen, fisheries managers, environmental lawyers, and policy makers are joining forces in the search for sustainable fisheries management techniques that will more optimally align species' ecological characteristics with economic circumstances, legal constraints, and social and political landscapes. In this Article, I discuss the potential use of a spatial, property rights-based fisheries management technique called "territorial use rights in fisheries," or "TURFs." I consider how notions of marine property rights may affect the implementation of TURFs, with a focus on California. I analyze several possible avenues for TURF implementation in California, including fee simple ownership, submerged lands leases, the Marine Life Protection Act, and the Marine Life Management Act. I conclude that many of the policy rationales undergirding existing California law and regulation support the general idea of TURF management. However, they do not expressly provide for TURF implementation, and there exists no straightforward path to instituting TURFs in California. If California chooses to move forward with TURFs as a fisheries management tool, it may be necessary for the state to craft TURF-specific regulations. I close my discussion with a description of various ecological, economic, social, and political considerations that California policymakers and fisheries managers might take into account in crafting TURF policy.
44321176|California's struggles with air pollution are well known, particularly in the South Coast Air Basin. Since the ports of Long Beach and Los Angelesboth located in the Basinhandle 40 percent of the nation's imports, the shipping industry contributes heavily to the pollution in the South Coast Air Basin. Specifically, the shipping industry is the heaviest emitter of sulfur dioxide and fifth-largest emitter of nitrogen dioxide in the area. To combat the shipping industry's contribution to the area's air pollution problems, in 2008 the California Air Resources Board enacted Vessel Fuel Rules requiring ships to use low-sulfur fuels while within twenty-four miles of California's coast and when stopping at California ports. The Vessel Fuel Rules were challenged as preempted by the Submerged Lands Act in Pacific Merchant Shipping Association v. Goldstene (Pacific Merchant II). The Ninth Circuit upheld the Vessel Fuel Rules against the Pacific Merchant Shipping Association's motion for summary judgment by, in part, applying a presumption against preemption. The Ninth Circuit held that application of a presumption against preemption was appropriate because the Vessel Fuel Rules fell under an area of traditional state control by targeting the prevention of air pollution. Although applied in Pacific Merchant II, the presumption against preemption doctrine is unclear and the application of the presumption appears inconsistent at best. This Note uses the circumstances in Pacific Merchant II to illustrate that, in determining whether a presumption against preemption applies, courts should examine the strength of the state's interests, whether subsequent legislation has further explained the relative weight of federal interests in the area, whether federal regulations are insufficiently protective and only serve as a regulatory floor, and whether the level of decision making enforces political accountability. In the environmental law context, these factors will show that applying a strong presumption against preemption is favorable and will serve to protect state implementation of environmental protections that are necessary to protect the health and safety of the state's residents.
24114958|The European Union's newly enacted comprehensive regulation for industrial chemicals, known as REACH, draws heavily on three decades of experience in the United States under the Toxic Substances Control Act. Much of that experience has been negativeTSCA is widely regarded as a disappointment among U.S. environmental lawsand so REACH deliberately reverses many of the legislative choices that Congress made in TSCA. REACH also takes advantage of important new regulatory devices that were not available to the framers of TSCA thirty years ago. The passage of REACH has sparked renewed interest in reforming TSCA, and the reformers will undoubtedly look to REACH for ideas. This Article contends that, while many aspects of REACH can fairly be understood as the Anti-TSCA, on closer examination, REACH follows many of TSCA's fundamental approaches to chemical regulation. These similarities offer a unique opportunity to develop a synthesis of the two regulatory regimes, which could form the practical basis for updating TSCA. While reform based on a synthesis of TSCA and REACH would be evolutionary rather than revolutionary, it could nevertheless greatly improve chemical regulation in the United States. The basis for such reform is likely to remain a risk-based, chemical-based, and cost-sensitive system. Nevertheless, a stronger commitment to progressive improvement could be obtained by a consistent effort to eliminate the most dangerous chemicals, the development of safety plans for the remainder, and consistent incentives to find safer substitutes. Chemical regulation should be more truly precautionary by relying primarily on available information with less demand for information that does not yet exist; regulators must be able to act in advance of full certainty; and, in contrast to the present procedural complexity of TSCA, the regulatory system should be simplified and include heavy reliance on providing information to the public. The Article concludes with a brief discussion of the global impact of national regulatory systems like REACH.
24114059|Human activities are steadily changing the trace gas composition of the Earth's atmosphere. Synthetic chlorofluorocarbon compounds eventually decompose in the stratosphere, releasing ozone-depleting chlorine atoms. The 1987 Montreal Protocol has controlled the further atmospheric release of CFCs, but depleted ozone levels will persist throughout the twenty-first century. Accumulation of carbon dioxide, methane, and other "greenhouse gases" impedes the escape of terrestrial infrared radiation, causing a warming of Earth's surface. The release in urban environments of hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides, usually from automobiles, creates smog. Emission regulations for greenhouse gases and smog will be major problems in the twenty-first century.
24114612|Rising natural gas prices and flattening North American natural gas production have led many to conclude that liquefied natural gas (LNG) development is urgently needed to sustain near-term growth of energy capacity in California and across the United States. To streamline and accelerate this development, Congress granted exclusive jurisdiction over the siting, construction, and operation of LNG terminals to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct), thereby transferring this aspect of intrastate natural gas regulatory authority from the state to the federal government. While this aspect of EPAct is wholly within Congress' constitutional power, this Comment describes why EPAct's preemption of state authority may not have been the best action to encourage LNG development and national energy independence. This issue is analyzed by examining the controversy between FERC and the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) over jurisdiction of a proposed LNG terminal in Long Beach, California. The Comment argues that the states must play a prominent role in LNG development to properly address economic, environmental, and local safety concerns. Furthermore, innovative state energy policies that encourage renewable energy development and investments in energy efficiency could be less effective without state authority over energy development, to the detriment of national energy independence goals. The Comment concludes that in spite of EPAct, the states retain tools needed to obstruct LNG development, and that the federal government and industry developers should therefore work cooperatively with the states to accelerate responsible development of LNG facilities. In recognition of this, FERC should ensure that their LNG regulations reserve a central and meaningful role for state participation.
24114451|The Bush administration has been heavily criticized by scientists for its use of science in the policy arena generally, including in natural resource management. The most widely circulated criticisms have accused the administration of politicizing science. The fundamental problem, though, is the opposite, the scientizing of politics. Political actors are often tempted to describe their decisions as scientific, but science is not, and cannot be, the primary driver of most regulatory decisions. The long history of scientific leadership within the conservation community has produced a sense in that community that emphasizing the scientific aspects of natural resource management necessarily works to their advantage. The current administration, however, has shown that the rhetoric of science can also be used defensively, as a barrier to regulation. This Article details several key methods the administration has used to pursue its strategy of defensive science in natural resource management. It concludes with the suggestion that a more normatively defensible, and perhaps also a more politically effective, strategy for conservationists would emphasize the need to bring two key procedural aspects of scientific practice, transparency and a commitment to updating, more strongly into the regulatory arena.
24113733|The appropriate way to value damage to a natural resource is constantly a contentious point in litigation, in particular with regards to nontangible environmental harms. A commonly used method of assessing the value of intangible environmental damages is contingent valuation. Contingent valuation uses a survey to poll the general public and place value on the natural resource in question. However, other areas of the law which value intangible harms (most notably pain and suffering damages) do not require a valuation of any type; instead pure jury discretion is used. Given the similar rationale for awarding damages for both pain and suffering and intangible environmental harm, a pure jury determination of the damages seems appropriate. This Note examines the recent Ninth Circuit Decision United States v. CB & I Constructors, Inc., which upheld a jury determination of the value of damage caused by a wildfire in a national forest. While jury determinations of intangible environmental harms should be allowed, the opinion lacked discussion of why jury determinations are appropriate. In response to the case, the California legislature passed a bill limiting damages from wildfires. Because this bill forces litigators to use problematic valuation methods such as contingent valuation and more or less forbids pure jury determinations, it is a step in the wrong direction.
24113968|Environmentals won an important battle in Oregon Natural Resources Council Action v. United States Forest Service when Judge Dwyer of the Western District of Oregon temporarily enjoined nine federal timber sales, representing over 100 million board feet of timber. In addition to the victory on the environmental front, Oregon Natural Resources exposes the danger of blind application of the substantial deference standard to agencies' interpretations of their own regulations. The substantial deference standard almost requires the court to give controlling weight to these types of interpretations. In order to come to the most appropriate decision in this case, Judge Dwyer applied the substantial deference standard lightly and utilized what appeared to be a more common-sense standard of review. This case exemplifies the problems underlying the foundation of the substantial deference standard and strengthens the argument that the Supreme Court should revisit the issue of blind deference to agency regulatory interpretation.
24114223|Congress enacted CERCLA in 1980 to encourage the fair and timely cleanup of hazardous waste. Yet, more than twenty years later, thousands of sites remain contaminated. One barrier to redeveloping these sites is uncertainty over who is responsible for their cleanup, particularly when the waste has spread throughout the property and onto neighboring land, a situation known as passive migration. Since CERCLA does not specifically address passive migration, courts compare it with "disposal" and "release," both elements of liability in CERCLA. Most of the passive migration cases have dealt with interim owners of land where previous owners disposed waste, and these cases adopted a narrow definition of "disposal. " Yet, two recent cases address owners of neighboring properties contaminated by passive migration. This Note argues that these cases demonstrate the flaw in adopting a narrow definition of "disposal." While neighbors should not ultimately bear the cost of cleaning up hazardous waste they never controlled, they do have a responsibility to respond to the waste on their property once it is discovered, which is required by the affirmative defenses to liability under CERCLA. Broad definitions of "disposal" and "release," combined with the many affirmative defenses provided by Congress, would achieve both fairness for neighbors and encourage the prompt cleanup of hazardous waste.
24114042|The northeast states are facing significant ozone nonattainment problems because of long-range transport of pollution from utilities in the Midwest. The States and EPA have made several attempts to control the pollution through rulemakings under the Clean Air Act, interstate transport commissions, voluntary negotiations, and litigation. Although some of these efforts have met with varying degrees of success, all have been fraught with complications and delay. This Note examines the effectiveness of these multiple efforts and concludes that the answer to the ozone transport problem lies in Congressional enactment of comprehensive federal electricity restructuring legislation.
24115310|Numerous laws direct federal land management agencies to consider the impact of their decisions on sites sacred to American Indians. These laws require agencies to consult with tribes and practitioners in order to locate sacred sites and understand how land use affects them. But for a variety of religious, historical, and practical reasons, tribes and individual practitioners hesitate to disclose this information to federal land managers. As a result, agencies find themselves directed to protect sacred sites but unable to get relevant information from the people who possess it. Meanwhile, practitioners question the value of federal laws requiring sacred site consultation when such consultation may violate their religious beliefs and expose their sacred sites to overuse and misuse. To reduce the communication barrier, land management agencies may promise confidentiality to those with sacred site information. But once in an agency's possession, the information may be subject to disclosure if it is requested under the Freedom of Information Act, or if the National Environmental Policy Act requires it to be included in a publicly available analysis. This Comment explores this interaction between the Freedom of Information Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, and land management laws favoring tribal consultation, and analyzes the degree of confidentiality agencies can promise those with sacred site information. It analyzes options for agencies and tribes, and concludes a legislative solution would be both beneficial and appropriate.
24114606|In New York v. Environmental Protection Agency, the D.C. Circuit upheld most of EPA's changes to the Clean Air Act's New Source Review program. Despite widespread public criticism that the new rule would make it easier for existing sources to avoid installing pollution control technology when they make modifications, the D.C. Circuit deferred to EPA's judgment that the new rule would have compensating environmental benefits. However, the court did vacate the rule's Clean Units and Pollution Control Projects provisions, and remanded to the agency to provide a more reasoned explanation of how less stringent reporting requirements would not undermine EPA enforcement practices. The court also deferred two potentially critical questions as unripe: whether EPA can compel states to adopt the new rules and whether EPA's approval of state implementation plans containing the new rules would violate the Clean Air Act's anti-backsliding provisions. After examining the court's entire decision, this Note will focus on these two deferrals and argue that they were prudent given the very detailed factual records necessary to decide these claims. By leaving these claims unsettled, the decision allows for further analysis of the new rule's environmental and health effectsanalysis that might improve the rule's clarity, practicability, and environmental sustainability.
24114056|Sustainable development (SD) is premised on the inescapable and integral role played by humans in shaping and impacting the natural world and has been recognized as a foundational norm of international environmental law and policy. Ecologicalisman outlook that embraces a comprehensive approach to interdependent natural and human systemsprovides the conceptual underpinnings for a creative and integrated environmental management philosophy for implementing SD. This Article argues that the daunting task of defining and applying such an integrated approach and philosophy to the multiple interacting changes affecting planetary life support systems can benefit from the U.S. experience in addressing the need for integrated pollution control (IPC). It also contends that the relatively new discipline of Industrial Ecology (IE) that pairs industry with ecology offers a promising new system paradigm for analyzing human activity within the biophysical environment. By entwining humans and their needs with ecosystems, IE does in fact aspire to become the "science of sustainability."
24114952|This Article analyzes the role that linkage between emission trading systems could play in a future international climate policy architecture. Cap-and-trade systems, regional, national, and international in scope, are emerging as a preferred instrument for addressing global climate change throughout the industrialized world, and the Clean Development Mechanisman emission-reduction-credit systemhas also developed a significant constituency. Because links between tradable permit systems can reduce compliance costs and improve market liquidity, the possibility of linking cap-and-trade systems to each other and to emission-reduction-credit systems such as the Clean Development Mechanism has generated considerable interest. We consider whether linkage could pave the way for a future international agreement, play a role as part of a future agreement, or substitute for an agreement. We argue that linkage could promote the near-term goals of participation and cost-effectiveness, while helping to build the foundation for a more comprehensive future agreement to address global climate change.
24115076|On May 13, 2010, the Environmental Protection Agency issued the Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule. Known as the Tailoring Rule, this regulation makes key adjustments to the statutory thresholds for permitting requirements in order to finally bring stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions under federal regulation. This Note argues that the Tailoring Rule demonstrates how agencies serve a critical function in the context of public policy. Where the inherent characteristics of "wicked problems" like climate change prevent Congress from passing legislation, delegation to agencies provides renewed potential for government action that reflects the public interest. The classic advantages of administrative power, such as insulation, flexibility, and expertise, are particularly important in the context of "wicked problems" in two ways. First, delegation to agencies can ensure action where politics would otherwise prevent new legislation. Second, it can ensure that the public interest is prioritized over economic interests, providing more effective regulation.
43920933|Few areas of law are as deeply implicated with science and technology as environmental law, yet we have only a cursory understanding of how science and technology shape the field. Environmental law, it seems, has lost sight of the constitutive role that science and technology play in fashioning the problems that it targets for regulation. Too often, the study and practice of environmental law and governance take the object of governancebe it climate change, water pollution, biodiversity, or deforestationas self-evident, natural, and fully-formed without recognizing the significant scientific and technological investments that go into making such objects and the manner in which such investments shape the possibilities for response. This Article seeks to broaden environmental law's field of vision, replacing the tendency to naturalize environmental problems with an exploration of how particular scientific and technological knowledge practices make environmental problems into coherent objects of governance. Such knowledge practices, or ways of seeing, are instrumental in shaping regulatory possibilities and must be interrogated directly as key constituents of particular forms of governance. The argument is developed through a case study of how tropical deforestation, which accounts for some 15 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions but which was expressly excluded from the Kyoto Protocol, has recently become a viable object of climate governance, demonstrating the fundamental importance of conceptual advances in carbon cycle research, the synoptic view of global land cover change made possible by remote sensing, and new carbon accounting techniques in rendering the problem comprehensible for climate policy. Building on the case study, this Article identifies and elaborates on three general ways of seeingkind-making, calculability, and equivalencethat operate through particular scientific and technical practices to shape and inform the substance of environmental law, with specific attention to the implications of the overall approach for a comprehensive theory of the field.
24112696|"What experience and history teach is thisthat people and governments never have learned anything from history or or acted on principles deducted from it." Undaunted by Hegel's pessimism, Professor Barnes demonstrates that our current concern for the environment is not as new as we might suppose. The most considerable, continuous, and best documented experiment in environmental control in the Common Law tradition was conducted before the middle of the seventeenth century. An almost accidental circumstance determined that this experiment would become a lost opportunity.
24114988|The resolution of multiple use conflicts through place-based (national forest-specific) legislation has recently received increased interest. Most of these proposals combine wilderness designation, restoration objectives, economic development, funding arrangements, and other provisions, in a conservation package to be considered by Congress. Interest in the place-based legislative approach is precipitated by numerous factors, including perceptions of agency gridlock, problems related to forest planning, unresolved roadless and wilderness issues, and the embrace of collaboration. Though the national forests have a more unified governing framework than other federal land systems, the U.S. Forest Service has implemented place-based legislation in a few cases. This Article reviews these cases, and then presents a short case study focused on the Beaverhead-Deerlodge Partnership in Montana, which has proposed a place-based bill currently being debated. A brief review of other place-based proposals is also provided. We neither endorse nor oppose these proposals at this point. Instead, we ask a series of questions that we hope will help structure future analysis and debate of place-based national forest legislation. We ask questions pertaining to governance, conflict resolution, precedent, wilderness designation, and funding.
24114051|This Article discusses the challenges and opportunities facing efforts to shape a transition toward more sustainable relations between humans and their planet. It begins with a review of international goals for human development and environmental conservation, past trends in interactions between the Earth's social and natural systems that set the stage for contemporary efforts to meet those goals, and some of the foreseeable problems that will have to be addressed in the years ahead. Arguing that the successful strategies for navigating a sustainability transition will necessarily be knowledge intensive, the Article discusses strategies for social learning about sustainability. It closes with a review of the institutional reforms that will be necessary to implement such strategies.
24114515|This Note explores the significance of the Supreme Court's 2004 decision in Department of Transportation v. Public Citizen, commonly referred to as "The Mexican Trucking Case. " The case drew attention as an example of the tension between trade liberalization and environmental protection. The Supreme Court's decision interprets the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) and the Clean Air Act as not requiring environmental review of the consequences of opening American borders to the Mexican fleet of trucks and buses, which is older and more polluting than the American fleet. This Note explores the consequences of the judiciary's continuing hostility toward NEPA and the growing irrelevance of NEPA in an era of increased international trade. NEPA's substantive provisions are aspirational rather than prescriptive, which makes the statute highly vulnerable to judicial narrowing. This Note argues that there was room in this case for a different interpretation, but admits that the Court's narrow interpretation was predictable given prior judicial reluctance to give force to NEPA's grand vision. Furthermore, NEPA turns out to be particularly weak in the trade context. This Note argues that we cannot ignore this statutory failure. The Note concludes with some proposed judicial and legislative solutions to both the specific problem of the truck pollution and the larger problems of statutory inadequacy.
24114598|This Article explains the continuing problems with protecting human health under the Clean Air Act's hazardous air pollutant program, in particular, the difficulty of protecting the public from residual health risks when all sources have put maximum technological controls into place. The Article traces the causes of these problems to flaws in the statutory implementation and the enforcement regime concerning residual health risks. In seeking to resolve these lingering flaws in the federal program, this Article surveys twelve states that have stricter protections than the federal government for residual risk from air toxics, and analyzes these states' success in reducing air toxic concentrations. Commonalities between the most successful states programs reveal potential solutions for improving regulation of hazardous air pollutants at the federal level.
24111364|The depletion of the Alaska salmon fishery has reached critical proportions. This Comment initially discusses the fishery's historical development and the biological and economic factors that are causing the depletion. A solution is proposed that will enable the fishery both to recover its biological equilibrium and to provide economic support for those fishermen most dependent on the resource. Since the proposed gear reduction program will necessarily exclude some present and future fishermen from the fishery, the potential legal challenges to this form of state regulation are also analyzed.
24114989|This companion Article to the fall 2007 A Comparative Guide to the Eastern Public Trust Doctrines explores the state public trust doctrinesemphasis on the pluralin the nineteen western states. In so doing, this Article seeks to make the larger point that, while the broad contours of the public trust doctrine have a federal law basis, especially regarding state ownership of the beds and banks of navigable waters, the details of how public trust principles actually apply vary considerably from state to state. Public trust law, in other words, is very much a species of state common law. Moreover, as with other forms of common law, states have evolved their public trust doctrines in light of the particular histories and the perceived needs and problems of each state. This Article observes that, in the West, four factors have been most important in the evolution of state public trust doctrines: (1) the severing of water rights from real property ownership and the riparian rights doctrine; (2) subsequent state declarations of public ownership of fresh water; (3) clear and explicit perceptions of the scarcity of water and the importance of submerged lands and environmental amenities; and (4) a willingness to consider water and other environmental issues to be of constitutional importance and/or to incorporate broad public trust mandates into statutes. From these factors, two important trends in western states' public trust doctrines have emerged: (1) the extension ofpublic rights based on states ' ownership of the water itself; and (2) an increasing, and still cutting-edge, expansion of public trust concepts into ecological public trust doctrines that are increasingly protecting species, ecosystems, and the public values that they provide.
24113928|Under Montana law, state officials may kill bison that migrate out of Yellowstone National Park and onto public lands in Montana. Despite scientific evidence to the contrary, Montana fears that these bison may spread the disease brucellosis to domestic cattle. Montana's policy brings into question whether ecosystem management is possible in greater Yellowstone. This paper reviews bison management policies in greater Yellowstone, and explores the extent to which the Park Service and Forest Service can protect bison on federal lands outside the Park notwithstanding Montana law. This paper proposes the establishment of special management zones on federal lands outside the Park where bison are allowed to roam.
44321179|In enacting the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Congress granted enforcement authority to the Environmental Protection Agency and state governments as well as to ordinary citizens under the citizen suit provision. These enforcement mechanisms often overlap and sometimes conflict, especially in circumstances of dual-track enforcements that occur simultaneously. Federal circuit courts rarely review such cases; however, three separate circuits recently addressed citizen suits in a manner that may significantly affect the balance between citizen and state enforcement under the statute. All three courts refused to dismiss citizen suits despite previously filed state agency actions. Each court also overturned lower court decisions to abstain from exercising federal jurisdiction that would have allowed state agencies to handle the matter in state court. This trend solidifies the power of the statute's citizen suit provision and may have tremendous implications on a state's ability to set and maintain its own waste disposal policy. This Note argues that courts must be mindful of the enforcement mechanisms set up by the statute and thus must leave open the opportunity for state agencies to foreclose dual-track enforcements to ensure that citizen suits do not supplant governmental action. In particular, state agencies should be able to maintain the ability to request that courts abstain from exercising jurisdiction over citizen suits in those cases in which the state agency is truly diligent in pursuing its own enforcement action. States can protect this option by enhancing the process for citizen input during enforcement policy decision making. In particular, states should require that agencies expand consideration of citizen perspectives before filing suit in agency enforcement actions.
24114592|The legal process school's "institutional competence" idea produced administrative standards of technical expertise and political independence that evolved to undermine Environmental Era visions of a fundamental normative shift in the exercise of political authority over public policy. Supreme Court decisions in Overton Park, Vermont Yankee and Baltimore Gas expanded agencies' authority over the role of science in environmental law to the detriment of normative concerns. The Chadha-Chevron duo produced a substantial, unintended shift in the institutional competence theme's development in law by insulating agencies' legislative power from meaningful deliberative adjustment. Legal process themes of efficiency and rational order combined with agencies' broad authority to support the integration of economics into the environmental regulatory system's institutional structure. The institutional competence theme's substantive and structural foundationsefficiency, expertise, and independenceevolved to support the institutional conversion of environmental law into a regulatory architecture dominated by economic discourse.
24112278|Part One of this article describes the biological characteristics of whales, dolphins, and porpoises and the history of whaling and whaling regulation, including the formation and history of the International Whaling Commission. Part One also includes analyses of the ethical and biological issues involved in cetacean management. This, the concluding part of the article, examines the economic and legal issues of cetacean management.
24114954|California's over-the-fence rule prevents the distribution of excess power from a solar energy producer to more than two nearby properties or to any neighboring property that is not adjacent to the property where the electricity is generated. This investment-choking regulation stunts the growth of renewable and distributed electricity. The over-the-fence rule's purpose is to protect utilities from competition, guard consumers from unfair practices, and promote grid reliability. However, each of these justifications is insufficient to warrant the existence of a rule that restricts investment in California's distributed generation potential. The over-the-fence rule protects a regulatory consensus that no longer exists, is redundant in its prevention of consumer abuses, and makes grid reliability worse instead of better. California should ease the over-the-fence rule's grip on electricity generators to a point that neither allows investor-owned utilities to escape regulation nor limits essential investments in distributed generation.
24114301|In Pronsolino v. Nastri, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a 'landmark' district court decision interpreting Section 303 of the Clean Water Act to apply to nonpoint source pollution. The Pronsolino decision affirms EPA's authority to enforce Total Maximum Daily Loads(TMDLs) in waters polluted exclusively by nonpoint sources. While this decision affirms EPA's ability to regulate nonpoint source pollution, the Clean Water Act itself still lacks effective enforcement provisions. There is little in the Act to compel either the agency or the states to implement TMDLs, and the current Bush Administration has put on hold EPA rules designed to strengthen TMDL implementation. Until EPA is authorized to enforce TMDLs, environmental advocates must employ other legal, political, and economic strategies to address nonpoint source pollutionthe major, and still largely unregulated, source of pollution tainting the nation's waters.
24113986|The public trust doctrine is rooted in ancient Roman law and the Wisconsin Constitution. Ancient Roman jurists believed that the natural law concept that the waters are common to all was not subject to the changing whims of legislatures. Similarly, modern theorists assert that a constitutionally-based doctrine will be more insulated from politics. This Comment demonstrates the limits of these theories. The trust doctrine is not immutable. Based on interviews with the trustees of Wisconsin's water resources, this Comment uncovers the constraints on the trustees. It shows that trust resources are at risk due to politically-motivated decisions and lax enforcement.
24115063|The Supreme Court's 2005 Kelo decision prompted much activity by the property rights movement, leading many states to reevaluate and alter the eminent domain powers granted to their agencies and subdivisions. Approximately forty states have enacted post-Kelo limiting legislation to curtail governments' use of eminent domain. In some states, courts have also played a role in limiting situations in which states and municipalities can "take" private property. Although many states have changed their eminent domain laws since Kelo, the content of the amendments in many states has not effectively narrowed states' eminent domain powers. This summary of eminent domain law five years after the Kelo decision delineates states ' responses to Kelo into four categories: "strong limitations, " which significantly limit states ' eminent domain powers; "intermediate limitations, " which impose some limits on eminent domain powers, but which have exceptions through which a state or local government can likely maneuver to maintain some of its power; "weak limitations, " under which states' eminent domain powers remain largely unchanged; and "Status Quo Plus, " where states' eminent domain power has either remained the same or become stronger since Kelo. Within each category, this summary details several notable examples, reviewing legislative and judicial responses. The following Part presents the federal responses to Kelo. Finally, this Article summarizes general trends in amendments of eminent domain law and briefly discusses possible explanations for these trends.
24114957|This Article addresses administrative law principles that apply to interpretive rules and guidance documents. Agencies today often rely heavily on the development of such documents. With the widely-touted "ossification" of the rulemaking process and the need for agencies to adapt to new circumstances, new court decisions, and changing administrations, interpretive rules and guidance documents are increasingly necessary, particularly for agencies implementing environmental and natural resource programs. Yet, administrative law principles governing the treatment of such documents are too vague. The long-standing difficulty of distinguishing between legislative (substantive) rules and non-legislative rules, when coupled with the doctrines of finality, ripeness and deference to agency interpretations all converge to demonstrate the need for clarity to ensure that new administrations will enjoy sufficient flexibility to modify such documents and change course.
24115071|In Monsanto Co. v. Geertson Seed Farms, the Supreme Court reversed the Ninth Circuit's permanent injunction against partial deregulation and planting of genetically engineered alfalfa. The Court held that a four-factor test applies when a plaintiff seeks a permanent injunction to remedy a National Environmental Policy Act violation. Even though the only remedy available to the plaintiffs was an injunction, the Court reasoned that it was overbroad because irreparable harm to the environment was not certain. This Note argues that the Monsanto decision cuts away at the longstanding judicial approach of granting near automatic injunctions for environmental harms by requiring judges to instead follow a balancing test to determine whether an injunction should issue. Further, it discusses how the Monsanto decision fits into established trends of the conservative Supreme Court. Finally, this Note analyzes the implications of the four-factor balancing test, focusing on how it affects the availability of judicial remedies and the standards of judicial review.
24114622|Federal law requires the removal of offshore oil and gas platforms from the seafloor at the end of production. An exception to this rule allows a platform to stay on the seafloor if it is incorporated into a state artificial reef program. These "rig-to-reef" projects have been promoted as innovative public-private partnerships that address the dual problems of costly platform removal and disappearing fishing opportunities. I argue that the current legal framework fails to ensure habitat enhancement and may condone ocean dumping. The problem can be traced to three sources: federal and state competition on the outer continental shelf, lack of a comprehensive long-term federal vision for outer continental shelf development, and interest group pressure in the face of scientific uncertainty. I recommend that we revisit the bargain struck in rig-to-reef conversions. This article identifies the flaws in current law and proposes a more robust experimental model to ensure that public benefit is realized in rig-to-reef programs.
24111301|Administrative agencies exercise substantial discretionary power in performing their delegated legislative functions, often in detriment to the environment. This Comment examines a recent decision of a California appellate court overturning the delegation of legislative authority under the Forest Practice Act which had exclusively regulated the state's forest practices and private logging operations. The court intervened because the Act ignored the fundamental public interest in preventing ecological damage to the state's privately-owned timber resources. The court argued for the necessity of safeguards to prevent the abuse of administrative powers. Its conclusions concerning the legitimate composition of administrative commissions are applicable to regulatory agencies in general, and provide a useful precedent in challenging similar enabling statutes which ignore environmental interests.
24111320|Despite recent United States Supreme Court decisions that have significantly reduced legal restrictions on the availability of abortions and contraceptives, minors have still not been accorded the benefits of these rulings. This Comment examines both the population control impact and the common law and statutory foundation for the present status of minors in this area. The author then reviews the major Supreme Court decisions dealing with the constitutional bases for obtaining contraceptives and abortions and indicates how the reasoning of those decisions can be extended to ensure contraception availability for minors as a matter of constitutional law.
24115060|The plurality opinion in Stop the Beach Renourishment v. Florida Department of Environmental Protection articulated a new doctrine of "judicial takings" and purported to justify it with arguments drawing on text, history, precedent, and "common sense." This Article argues that the opinion makes a mockery of such forms of interpretation, represents raw pursuit of an ideological agenda, and indicates why the regulatory takings doctrine, more generally, should be abandoned or limited.
24114623|Over the past three decades, populations of marine mammals have mysteriously disappeared from the North Pacific, leaving almost no trace and few clues as to the cause. Populations of sea otters, Steller sea lions, northern fur seals, and harbor seals have all plummeted, and although scientists have posited a number of possible explanations for the decline, no smoking gun has emerged. A relatively new theory, however, may solve the mystery. Deprived of food from great whaleswhich were severely depleted by overhunting in the 1950s and 1960skiller whales may have turned to less desirable prey such as sea otters and Steller sea lions, thereby driving down their populations. This cascading ecosystem collapse occurred in the midst of a complex legal regime designed to protect North Pacific ecosystems. The killer whale hypothesis, if true, exposes this legal regime as a series of mere stop-gap measures ill-fitted to the ecological realities of the North Pacific.
24114308|California recently enacted a Climate Law requiring automakers to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in new vehicle fleets. Utilizing a special exception in the Clean Air Act, the Climate Law has the potential to achieve improvements in air quality not only in California, but across the nation. Yet the law will likely draw a challenge from automakers claiming federal preemption under the Clean Air Act. Whether the Climate Law can withstand a preemption challenge will depend in part on the success of the strategic drafting of the law, effort's subsequent to the law's passage, and a narrow reading of whether air quality regulations focused on carbon dioxide emissions "relate to" fuel economy standards. Ultimately, the success of this far-reaching law may depend on politics.
24112432|Federal authority to abate and prevent air pollution is chiefly embodied in the Clean Air Act, strengthened in 1970 by several controversial amendments. As subsequent litigation has revealed, the statute has far more teeth and portends a much wider scope of federal regulatory and enforcement activity than originally believed. This Note analyzes the most significant action brought to date under the new Clean Air Act, Sierra Club v. Ruckelshaus. The ultimate judicial resolution of the question of whether or not the Act mandates a policy prohibiting deterioration of air quality in areas of relatively clean air will have a momentous impact on future economic development throughout the country. If non-degradation is determined not to be a basic requirement of the Act, existing preferences for location of new industries are likely to undergo a radical shift from highly-regulated urban centers to presently rural and suburban areaswith the concomitant result of exporting the air pollution problems of the cities to the rest of the nation. After discussing the initial district court decision this Note analyzes both the legal and political issues involved in the battle over non-degradation.
