4252841|Jojoba plants of the selection 'Vista' were grown for two years in the greenhouse at four levels of soil salinity. All plants reached anthesis with no symptom of major injury because of the treatments. The following changes were noted on treated plants: Leaves were thicker, with larger secretory and palisade cells. They had fewer stomata per unit area, smaller vascular cylinder and vascular cells, and discontinuous layers of secretory cells. Stems were thinner, with smaller pith diameter, smaller pith cells, and smaller vessel elements. Both leaves and stems had a higher moisture content. A higher accumulation of Cl and Na ions was observed in both leaves and stems. Mg ions decreased in leaves but increased in stems. Ca ions increased in leaves only.
4255529| Recent ethnobotanical exploration of henequn (Agave fourcroydes) in the Peninsula of Yucatan, Mexico, finds that inflorescence peduncles are used as emergency food and in the preparation of a fermented drink. Bromatological analysis and determination of total carbohydrates were made for the two length classes (ca. 3.30 m and ca. 0.60 m) which are consumed. The analysis of both the cultivated plant and its putative wild ancestor (Agave angustifolia) suggests that utilization of the inflorescence peduncles as food may have been involved in the initial stages of the history of its evolution under artificial selection, because the wild and the cultivated plants have similar palatability. The subsequent agricultural prevalence of annual crop species in the region was possibly responsible for the abandonment of henequn in the local diet. No significant differences are observed between the bromatological and total carbohydrate values of domesticated and wild plants. The preference for small inflorescence peduncles as a vegetable is a consequence of its significantly minor content of raw fiber and its larger content of total carbohydrates. As a fermented drink, longer peduncles are preferred because they provide more substrate material and because fiber can be eliminated by filtering. This agricultural by-product, almost totally wasted, has potential value as a source of carbohydrates and raw fiber. /// La exploracion etnobotanica reciente de henequn (Agave fourcroydes) en Yucatan, Mexico, indico el uso del pedunculo floral como alimento humano de emergencia y para elaborar una bebida fermentada. El analisis bromatolgico y de carbohidratos totales en las dos longitudes que es consumido (alrededor de 3.30 m y 0.60 m), tanto del cultivado como del presunto ancestro silvestre (Agave angustifolia), indicaron que su uso alimenticio pudo estar involucrado en las fases historicas iniciales de su evolucion bajo seleccion artificial, ya que el silvestre presenta caracteristicas agradables al gusto semejantes a las del cultivado. La posterior prevalencia de especies anuales en la agricultura de la region, posiblemente dejo atras la importancia de henequn en la dieta del area, por lo que no se detectan diferencias significativas entre el domesticado y el silvestre en relacion a su valor bromatologico y azucares totales. La preferencia actual del pedunculo pequeno como verdura de debe a su significativo menor contenido de fibra cruda y mayor contenido de carbohidratos totales. Como bedida fermentada, se prefiere la talla grande, pues asi se dispone de mas material y, como es colada, la fibra no se consume. Este esquilmo agricola, casi totalmente desaprovechado, tiene valor potencial como fuente de carbohidratos y fibra cruda. 
40390470|This paper presents an historical overview of wild mushroom commerce in Italy, with a focus on recent trends in the production of porcini (Boletus edulis and closely allied species). Over the past century, two major trendsnationalization and globalizationhave been apparent in the wild mushroom commerce of Italy. First, a simplified national mushroom menu has emerged through processes of governmental regulation and culinary fashion, but it has come at the expense of differing, localized mushroom traditions which may suffer under the European Union's free trade principles. Second, Italy has emerged as a focal point of a global market for a small number of mushroom speciesparticular porcini. While the name porcini has become synonymous with Italian cuisine, and in spite of a vibrant tradition of recreational mushroom collecting in Italy, most of the porcini commercially available in Italy or exported by Italy are no longer of Italian origin. Porcini and other mushrooms now flow into Italy from all over the worldespecially from China and eastern Europeand are then often exported as "Italian porcini." This globalization of the wild mushroom trade, while offering significant income to rural producers and processors around the globe, has other effects as well, for example, a kind of national branding as "Italian" of globally-produced products, of which porcini is one, that is in direct opposition to some of the European Union's rules for regional denominations. /// Questo articolo presenta una panoramica storica sul commercio dei funghi spontanei in Italia, con particolare riguardo alle recenti tendenze nella produzione dei porcini (Boletus edulis e specie affini). Nello scorso secolo si sono osservate due tendenze principalidi nazionalizzazione e di globalizzazionenel commercio dei funghi spontanei in Italia. In primo luogo si  affermata nel territorio nazionale una tradizione limitata al consumo di un numero contenuto di specie, sia per effetto di alcune normative che di mode culinarie, ma ci  avvenuto a discapito di tradizioni locali pi ricche, che potrebbero ulteriormente risentire dei principi per il libero scambio all'interno dell'Unione Europea. In secondo luogo, l'Italia si  posta in evidenza come un punto nodale per il mercato globale di alcune specie fungine, in particolare dei porcini. Nonostante quest'ultimo termine sia tradizionalmente associato alla cucina italiana, e nonostante esista in Italia una vivace e radicata tradizione nella raccolta amatoriale dei funghi, la maggior parte dei porcini ivi commercializzati (allo stato fresco, essiccati o variamente conservati) o esportati verso altri paesi non sono pi di origine locale. I porcini e altre specie fungine giungono attualmente in Italia da ogni parte del mondoin modo particolare dalla Cina e dall'Europa orientalee sono successivamente spesso esportati come "prodotti Italiani." Questo processo di globalizzazione del mercato dei funghi spontanei, pur offrendo un significativo introito ai raccoglitori e commercianti rurali su tutto il globo,  responsabile di altri effetti, come per l'appunto una sorta di marchio nazionale "Italiano" su alcuni prodotti di provenienza globale, come per l'appunto i porcini, cosa che contrasta con alcune delle regole dell'Unione Europea in materia di denominazioni regionali.
40390391|This paper surveys the use of wild and cultivated plants by local people in Ben En National Park, Vietnam, and analyzes its impact on the conservation status of some of the utilized species. A total of 208 species used for a range of nonmedicinal purposes are listed. See Hoang et al. (2008a) for 230 medicinal plants used in the park. Most species are used for food. The use of plants contributes very significantly to the livelihood of local people in the park, but the current use patterns are not sustainable and would lead to local extinction of rare and endangered species if no additional conservation measures are introduced. Men collect nonmedicinal plants more often than women. A total of 38 useful plant species are commercialized, and contribute 12% of the average income of individual households. Bamboo shoots of Schizostachyum funghomii (Poaceae) are the most important for income generation. The monetary equivalent of noncommercialized useful plants probably far exceeds the value of the traded plant products. Plant use is independent of the ethnicity of the different populations living in the park. Larger households make use of a greater variety of useful plant species than small families. Abundant species in the forest have a higher use index (Ul) than less common species. Out of the 208 useful species, as many as 27 were found to be endangered locally, many more than the 11 or 8 endangered species included in national or global red lists. Currently, useful plants, especially important timber trees, are more abundant in the less disturbed parts of the park, far away from the villages, indicating the pressures of illegal logging and harvesting near villages on the ecosystems.
4287891|The seed of more than 12,000 variations of Indian corn have been collected from many areas in the Western Hemisphere, and are preserved at regional centers to provide genetic factors in the future breeding of agronomically improved, disease-resistant and higher yielding varieties.
4256152| The genius of Indian paintings was first manifested in the Ajantan mural art which spanned a whole millennium from the second century B.C. to the eighth century A.D. This rich tradition, which continued up to the nineteenth century under the patronage of different dynasties in India, declined by the end of that century. But this cultural heritage has been kept alive by a few artists in Kerala who practice even today the methods and techniques of mural paintings similar to those practiced by the Ajantan mural painters. Plant materials and/or plant products used during different phases of a mural painting, from preparation of the base wall to the finishing touches of the creation are identified and processing and application detailed. Ajantan and post-Ajantan murals are reviewed and the materials, methods and techniques used in them are discussed. /// Le gnie des peintures indiennes se rvla pour la premire fois dans l'art Mural d'Ajanta qui couvrit tout un milliaire, du deuxime sicle avant J.C au huitime sicle aprs J.C. Cette tradition riche qui prolongea jusqu'au dix-neuvime sicle sous le patronage des diffrentes dynastis en Inde tomba en dcadence vers la fin du dix-neuvime sicle. Mais cet hritage culturel est encore vivant grce  l'effort de quelques artistes au Krala qui, mme aujourd'hui pratiquent les mthodes et techniques des peintures murales pareilles  celles exerces par les peintres Muraux d'Ajanta. Des matires vgtales et/ou des produits vgtaux utiliss pendant les phases diffrentes de la ralisation d'un mural ds la prparation du mur de base aux finissions de la cration sont identifis. Leurs traitement et opposition sont dtaills. En outre, les muraux d'Ajanta et ceux de la priode suivante sont examins et des matires mthodes et techniques y utilises sont discutes dans une certaine mesure. 
4253090|Sphagnum moss was a better potting medium than sand-peat mixtures. Single-node cuttings from the uppermost part of the stem, just below the leaves, produced larger plants than did cuttings from basal nodes. The height of plants 117 days after planting was directly proportional to the diameters and lengths of cuttings. The time required for emergence was also indirectly proportional to cutting length. Cuttings which were pressed into the potting media until their surfaces were barely visible produced larger plants than cuttings planted 3 inches deep. Dieffenbachia varieties responded similarly to the treatments, but D. amoena grew faster than D. picta, D. picta 'Exotica' and D. picta 'Rudolph Roehrs.'
4255063|All 17 species of conifers (and one taxad) occurring within the traditional territories of the Thompson and Lillooet Interior Salish of British Columbia are known to these peoples and named by them at a restricted level. Of moderate to high cultural significance, most were used many ways in traditional life. Uses included: food-seeds, inner bark, sugar, pitch (for chewing), and boughs (for making beverages); technology-wood for construction and fuel, bark for construction, fibrous materials for weaving, resins for glue and caulking, and, of prime significance, boughs as scents and cleansing agents; and medicine-primarily as tonics, and as remedies for respiratory ailments, stomach and digestive disorders, eye problems, and dermatological complaints. The use of the boughs as scents and agents for cleanliness also made conifers very important in religious and spiritual rituals. Some were also featured in mythology. Thompson and Lillooet peoples continue to use conifers, but to a more limited extent than in the past.
4256831| The purpose of this work is to present a botanical, cultural and historical portrait of sesame use in Southwest Asia, from earliest time to the present. The crop's domestication and subsequent dispersal are reviewed from the archaeological literature and early texts. The introduction of sesame represents an agricultural innovation in Southwest Asia, since as a 'tropical' warm weather crop, sensitive to freezing temperatures, it is successfully grown in the region as a summer crop, by selecting cultivars that mature early. Its seeds are used as food and flavoring. The chief constituent of the seed is its prized oil, 45-60% by weight that resists oxidative rancidity. It is used as a salad or cooking oil, an ingredient in cosmetics, in the manufacture of soaps, pharmaceuticals, and lubricants, and was formerly used as a lamp oil. The press cake remaining after the oil is expressed is a nutritious livestock meal. Information about medieval cultivation practices and evidence of its use in early centuries is extracted from historical manuscripts. Examples of sesame in art, myth, proverb and riddle from Southwest Asia provide a comparative, cross-cultural view of its service as a symbol. A survey of culinary, medicinal and linguistic data is presented. The status of its cultivation in the last century is represented by a rare look at practices in Armenia, Syria and Yemen. /// Ceci est un portrait botanique, culturel et historique d'utilisation de ssame dans le sud-ouest Asie, du temps le plus ancien jusqu'au prsent. La domestication de culture agricules et la dispersion suivante, est passe en revue de la littrature archologique et des textes tau temps jadis. L'introduction du ssame reprsente une innovation agricole, puisqu'elle est une culture de temps chaude, sensitive aux tempratures de conglation, mais est avec succs dveloppe dans la rgion comme culture d't, par le choix des cultivars qui mrissent le plus t. Sa graine est employe comme nourriture et assaisonnement. Le constitutif en chef de la graine est son huile estime, 45-60% en poids qui rsiste  la rancidit oxydante. Il est employ comme une huile salade ou de cuisine, un ingrdient en produits de beaut, dans la fabrication des savons, des pharmaceutiques, et des lubrifiants, et a t autrefois employ comme huile de lampe. Le tourteau restant aprs que l'huile soit exprime, est un repas nutritif de btail. Des informations sur des pratiques culture lles et l'vidence mdivale de son utilisation en sicles tt sont extraites  partir des manuscrits historiques. Les exemples du ssame dans l'art, le mythe, le proverbe et l'a devinette fournissent une vue comparative et transculturelle de son service comme symbole. Un enqute sur les donnes culinaires, mdicinales et linguistiques est prsente. Le statut de sa culture en dernier sicle est reprsent par un regard rare aux pratiques en Armnie, en Syrie et au Ymen. 
4254907|Phaseolin seed protein variability in a group of 8 wild and 77 cultivated common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) accessions was determined using 1-dimensional SDS/PAGE and 2-dimensional IEF-SDS/PAGE. Wild common bean accessions exhibited the 'CH' and 'B' patterns, previously undescribed among either wild or cultivated common beans. The cultivated genotypes showed (in decreasing frequency) the previously described 'S,' 'T,' and 'C' phaseolin patterns as well as the new 'B' pattern similar to the pattern identified in a Colombian wild common bean accession. In the northeastern part of the Colombian bean-growing region, the cultivars exhibited almost exclusively an 'S' phaseolin type, while in the southwestern part, the 'T' and 'C' phaseolin cultivars were more frequent. Seed size analysis indicated that 'T' and 'C' phaseolin cultivars had larger seeds than 'S' and 'B' phaseolin cultivars. Our results suggest that Colombia is a meeting place for Andean and Middle American common bean germplasms, as well as a domestication center for the common bean.
40390485|Berlin's (Ethnobiological Classification: Principles of Categorization of Plants and Animals in Traditional Societies. Princeton University Press, New Jersey, 1992) universal theories of ethnobiological classification have provided an indispensable common rubric to compare data from diverse sources. This paper examines these principles with respect to the naming of mushrooms by the Nuaulu on the eastern Indonesian island of Seram, a people for whom mushrooms have only marginal significance. Concordance to Berlin's principles is noted in some respects, but the small proportion of overall mycological diversity that is treated, the lack of consistently labeled intermediate rankings, the conflation between specific and generic levels, and the importance of utilitarian considerations challenge Berlin's hierarchically ranked "general purpose" (i.e., natural) model of folk biological taxonomy. A comparative review of the literature on other, mostly tropical ethnomycological classifications, is also included.
4256706|Greater than two-fold differences were observed between the lowest and highest means for stolon number and length characteristics. A 60% difference in total length was observed between the longest stolon of accessions. There was a 42% difference between the accessions with the fastest and slowest growing stolons. Accession with the longest and shortest internode differed by 28%. Small differences were observed for leaf length and width. Seed set under selfing was less than 7% indicating high self-incompatibility. Open-pollinated seed set ranged from 37% to 87%. Coefficients of variation for the various characteristics measured indicate that the Chinese accessions should provide more variation for genetic improvement in this species. Data showed that measuring total stolon length at five weeks after transplanting was adequate for evaluating all of the stolon length and number characteristics in this study. The Chinese accession appear to be a valuable source of new germplasm for this species.
4251924|About 20 per cent of the world's table grapes and 40 per cent of the world's raisins are produced in California, but less than 3 per cent of the wines of the world.
4256772|The Acjachemen Indians of San Juan Capistrano, California, have a rich history predating the establishment of the Spanish Missions. The Acjachemen have many uses for the plants indigenous to the area. The Blue or Mexican Elderberry, Sambucus mexicana C. Presl, Caprifoliaceae, continues to be a plant of great importance to the Acjachemen people. Known as the "tree of music," its wood is used in the construction of the capperstick, a percussion instrument used to accompany song. We documented the construction stages of the clapperstick by Acjachemen artisans: harvest, woodworking, and decoration. Tribal elders granted permission to document the process with videotape and photographs. While the methods and tools employed in the process have changed over time, the cultural importance of the clapperstick has not.
4287857|This industry, which may be 3,000 years old, today is first in world production of preserved olives, harvested from over 50,000,000 trees.
4254185|The rural population of the Bhats uses medicinal plants for regulating fertility. A survey was conducted among medicinal plant sellers, healers, priests and local people. Information on 28 plants and 11 recipes for doses from two or more vegetal species are given. Popular names, empirical properties, and manner of using recipies are described.
4252220|Several organic solvent and aqueous extractives were prepared from dried roots of Pleiocarpa mutica Benth. obtained from the Belgium Congo. All aqueous fractions produced a drop in blood pressure when administered to laboratory rats. A moist ethyl acetate extract produced most significant hypotensive activity. Preliminary tests indicate the presence of alkaloids in the active extracts of this species, and that the activity blocks the effect of epinephrine but is not altered by atropine. The active acetate fraction also destroyed adult and larvae stages of the nematode, Panagrellus redivivus (L.) Goody when added to test cultures.
4256645| The use of botanical insecticides based on the neem seed (Azadirachta indica var. siamensis Valeton) shows strong potential in the fight against important agricultural pests. Unfortunately, its use in rural Thailand is extremely limited. This study examines the efficacy of neem extracts processed under rural conditions; identifies factors that influence local farmers' adoption of neem products; and proposes recommendations to promote the use of neem insecticides. The principal findings are: in field trials conducted under typical rural conditions, neem did not adequately control major pests of yard-long beans (Vigna sesquipedalis); and intensity of vegetable production, knowledge of neem insecticides and availability and accessibility of neem products strongly influence farmers' adoption of neem products for pest control. /// Shows starkes Potential im Kampf gegen wichtige landwirtschaftliche Schdlinge. Leider wird seine Verwendung in lndlichem Thailand sehr beschrnkt. Dieses Studium untersucht die Wirksamkeit von neem-Auszgen, die unter lndlichen Bedingungen verarbeitet wird; identifiziert Faktoren, die rtliche Bauern Adoption von neem-Produkten beeinflussen; und schlgt Empfehlungen vor, die Verwendung von neem-Insektengiften zu frdern. Der Haupt Tatbestand ist: in Feld-Versuchen, die unter typischen lndlichen Bedingungen durchgefhrt werden, kontrollierten neem keine bedeutende Schdlinge Yard-langer Bohnen hinreichend (Vigna sesquipedalis); und Intensitt Pflanzen Produktion, Wissen von neem-Insektengiften und Erhltlichkeit und Zugnglichkeit von neem-Produkten beeinflut Bauern stark' Adoption von neem-Produkten fr Schdlingsbekmpfung. 
4287957|Although there is no known medicinal value in ginseng, there is a continuing demand for the root. Two species of Panax are acceptable sources, one Asiatic, the other North American. As a crop, ginseng is no gold mine, but may give a reasonable return to growers willing to wait the five to seven years required for maturation.
4255915| The economic botany of the tree species Borojoa patinoi is presented after consulting all available literature and visiting the region. Borojoa patinoi is a noteworthy species in that it is endemic to the biogeographic Choc region, its fruits have high market value, and it is an understory tree, which means it can be cultivated without clearing the overstory trees. This paper reviews the literature on the taxonomy and phytogeography of the genus, as well as the production ecology of the species. Two net present value models are presented to analyze the species economically. From the models, we conclude that in many areas in the Choc, planting B. patinoi trees is likely to be economically more competitive than planting commercial timber species. Furthermore, monocultures of B. patinoi may not be the economically optimal production system. Besides B. patinoi, some other Choc species with edible fruits are suggested for further research. /// Se presenta la botnica econmica de la especie rborea Borojoa patinoi despus de haber consultado la literatura disponible y haber visitado la regin. Borojoa patinoi es una especie notable porque es endmica de la regin biogeogrfica del Choc, sus frutos tienen un valor alto en el mercado y es un rbol del sotobosque, lo que permite su cultivo sin tener que eliminar los rboles del dosel. Este artculo revisa la literatura sobre la taxonoma y fitogeografa del gnero, as como la ecologa relacionada con la produccin de la especie. Se presentan dos modelos de valores presentes netos para analizar la especie desde un punto de vista econmico. A partir de los modelos concluimos que es probable encontrar muchas reas en el Choc, donde la siembra de rboles de B. patinoi es econmicamente ms competitiva que la siembra de especies maderables comerciales. Adems, los monocultivos de B. patinoi podran ser sistemas de produccin no ptimos econmicamente. Aparte de B. patinoi, se proponen algunas otras especies chocoanas con frutos comestibles para mayor investigacin. 
4251953|Russia, Poland and the Baltic countries account for about 90% of the world's production of fiber flax, and prior to 1940, 90% of the raw fiber used in the United States was imported from Europe. Today domestic production in the Willamette Valley of Oregon represents a $3 million dollar industry.
4255446| The manufacture of edible starch products from sago palms of the genus Metroxylon is common to indigenous people throughout Melanesia but is unknown in Polynesia, even in areas where Metroxylon species occur. We here report the use of Metroxylon as a starch source in the isolated Polynesian island of Rotuma. In Rotuma, Metroxylon warburgii (Heim) Beccari grows wild, but is likely the result of an aboriginal introduction from Melanesia. Samoan ethnohistorical accounts indicate that Metroxylon warburgii was introduced to Samoa from Rotuma. Rotuman manufacture of starch from M. warburgii appears to date from pre-European times as indicated by written accounts of early visitors to Rotuma and Rotuman oral histories. We provide details of the process of starch manufacture in Rotuma and speculate on possible means by which this technology was transferred from Melanesia to Rotuma. /// Die Herstellung ebarer Strkeprodukte aus Sagopalmen der Gattung Metroxylon ist unter den Einheimischen in ganz Melanesien bekannt, whrend sie in Polynesien sogar in den Gebieten unbekannt ist, wo Metroxylon Spezies vorkommen. Wir berichten hier ber die Verwendung von Metroxylon als einer Strkequelle auf der entlegne Insel Rotuma. Auf Rotuma wchst Metroxylon warburgii (Heim) Beccari wild, aber es ist anzunehmen, da sie von Ureinwohnern auf der Insel eingefhrt worden ist. Ethnohistologische Berichte aus Samoa zeigen an, daB Metroxylon warburgii von Rotuma aus in Samoa eingefuhrt worden ist. Die Strkeproduktion aus M. warburgii auf Rotuma scheint auf die voreuropaische Zeit zurckzugehen, wie man aus den Berichten von Besuchern aus der Zeit auf der Insel und mndlich berlieferten Darstellungen ersehen kann. Wir bringen Einzelheiten ber den Proze der Strkeherstellung in Rotuma und wir stellen Vermutungen ber Moglichkeiten wie diese Methode von Melanesien nach Rotuma gelangt ist. 
4253746| Soluble proteins, representing 18% of total plant protein, were extracted from freshly harvested alfalfa. Two fractions based on solubility in one-half saturated
4255135| The known and potential uses of New Zealand native plants and the products obtained from them are reviewed. Introduced species are not included. /// Der wirtschaftliche Wert, actuel und potentiell, von der einheimischen Flora aus Neu Seeland wird berprft. 
4254350|The legume plant family and its present role in agriculture are described. Critical agricultural problems in the immediate future may center about the maintenance of soil nitrogen supplies, a consequence of spiraling costs of fertilizers, and the need to improve the quantity and quality of protein in high-population countries. Unexploited legumes, if developed through research, may be of major importance in agriculture's response to this challenge.
4251888|An even greater use of the tomato as a food plant than at present may be possible through the breeding of more productive varieties having higher nutritive value and vitamin-C content. Such varieties might be developed by incorporating in the cultigen, Lycopersicon esculentum, certain desirable genes found in closely related species. For this purpose further genetic studies are necessary, and the development of suitable plant-breeding methods.
4255209| The fluted pumpkin (Telfairia occidentalis), an important cucurbitaceous leaf and seed vegetable, is indigenous to the west tropical rain forest area from Bendel to Cross Rivers states of Nigeria (c. longitude 7-8 E and latitude 5-6 N). Though endemic to southeastern Nigeria, Telfairia is of local ethnobotanical importance in the folklore and the dietary and cropping systems of Igbos and their neighbours. There is no reported definitive ethnobotanical study relating to this cucurbit. Telfairia has long been important in the internal food trade of Igbos. Like other leaf vegetables, it is of low commercial value, but can in some cases provide an appreciable cash income to small farm families. Its leaves, succulent shoots, and seed kernels constitute the usual ingredients that are popular and regularly consumed in Igbo soups. Soups made of leaf vegetables are essential for consumption of starchy pastes of yam, cassava, or cocoyam, which are frequently consumed in the humid areas of Nigeria. Many good attributes account for the increasing importance of this chief vegetable among 30-35 million people in Nigeria. 
4251859|A staple food since ancient times for countless Pacific island natives, taro may today be entering a new era of utilization by way of the baker's flour manufactured from it and other comestibles such as poi and paiai derived from its corm.
4252080|Such starches are not produced in the United States but are imported. Tapioca, from cassava roots, constitutes about 86% of them and is particularly valued in the food and adhesive industries. Sago from the pith of palm trees and cycads is used primarily as an adhesive; arrowroot from a rhizome as a food starch.
4256646|Many of the edible wild plants that are included in local food baskets have both therapeutic and dietary functions. Such medicinal foods have been part of Eastern medicinal theories since ancient times and have recently received attention in the USA and Europe within the fields of functional foods, neutraceuticals and phyto-nutrients. This paper provides an example from Vietnam of the continued use of a multitude of edible wild vegetables. Vietnamese traditional medicine also holds an important position within the health care system and many of the plants that are used have both dietary and medicinal functions. Using a combination of qualitative and quantitative techniques (Rapid Rural Appraisal and Food Frequency Questionnaires), information on over 90 species of edible wild plants was obtained from 4 villages in the Mekong Delta and the Central Highlands. About a third of the plants also had therapeutic roles, forty percent were used also as livestock feeds and one fifth were used as food/livestock feed/ medicine. From a nutrition viewpoint it is important to pay attention to this group of traditional foods for several reasons. Their direct nutritional contribution is often significant but neglected. Very little is known about the health benefits of regular consumption of small quantities of medicinal foods and an important "medicinal role" of traditional plant medicines may be the contribution of small quantities of trace minerals and vitamins. The parallel functions as livestock feeds make animal products more accessible to poor households and help improve the quality of their diets.
4253886|Ethnohistorically, wild and domesticated teparies (Phaseolus acutifolius: Leguminosae) are significant native food crops in southwestern North America. Their value rests in adaptations to arid environments, and high protein content and productivity. Use of wild teparies appears to be discontinued, but certain domesticated varieties are still grown by local commercial and subsistence farmers. The recent subsidence of tepary cultivation is related to breakdown of traditional economies and land use, and to the introduction of energy-intensive irrigated agriculture. An earlier and unsuccessful attempt to introduce teparies into modern agriculture was poorly timed. Teparies have considerable potential for low maintenance agriculture in arid and semi-arid lands.
4256157| We quantitatively examined the relationships between Sorghum landrace diversity at the field level and environmental factors and farmers' selection practices in north Shewa and south Welo regions of Ethiopia. Surveys were conducted on 260 randomly selected farmers' fields. The altitude and size of each field were recorded. Sorghum plants at 5 m intervals along transect lines spaced 10 m apart over each field were identified by the farmers and the owner of each field was asked why she/he decided to grow each plant. Soil samples were collected from all of the fields and analyzed for pH, organic content, and sand, silt and clay content. Simple and polynomial regressions and multiple regression analyses showed that Sorghum landrace diversity at the field level had significant relationships with the number of selection criteria used by the farmers, field altitude, field size, pH and clay content. As the number of selection criteria increased, landrace diversity in the fields increased. This relationship was not a result of the correlation between selection criteria and the environmental factors, because it was significant after statistically correcting for the effects of the environmental variables. This study quantitatively confirms the role of traditional farmers in the maintenance of sorghum landrace diversity in north Shewa and south Welo regions of Ethiopia. /// Wir untersuchten quantitative Zusammenhnge zwischen der Diversitt von Sorghum (Anzahl der Getreidevariationen) im Feld sowie Umweltfaktoren und Auswahlkriterien von Farmern im nrdlichen Shewa und im sdlichen Welo in thiopien. Die Untersuchung wurde an einer Stichprobe von 260 Feldern durchgefhrt. Fr jedes Feld wurden Hhenlage und Gre erfat. Sorghum Pflanzen wurden an den Schnittpunkten eines 5  10 Meter Rasters ber jedes Feld von Farmern identifiziert und jeder Eigentmer wurde nach dem Grund des Anbaus der Pflanze befragt. Wir entnahmen Bodenproben von jedem Feld, welche auf PH Wert, Gehalt von organischem Material, Sand, Schlick und Lehm analysiert wurden. Einfache, polynomische und mehrfache Regressionsanalysen zeigten signifikante Beziehungen zwischen der Diversitt von Sorghum und der Anzahl von Auswahlkriterien der Farmer-Hhenlage, Feldgre, PH und Lehmgehalt. Mit Zunahme der Auswahlkriterien erhhte sich die Diversitt von Sorghum im Feld. Dieser signifikante Zusammenhang war nicht das Ergebnis der Korrelation zwischen den Auswahlkriterien und Umweltfaktoren, da wir vorher den Effekt der Umweltfaktoren ausgeglichen hatten. Diese Studie quantifiziert die Bedeutung traditioneller Farmer fr die Diversitt von Sorghum im nrdlichen Shewa und im sdlichen Welo in thiopien. 
4287805|Biblical peoples of the Holy Land and adjacent parts of the Old World were as dependent upon plants for food, spices, cosmetics, drugs, medicines, textiles and other products as is modern man, and more than 125 such plants are recognizably referred to in the Scriptures.
4256988|Despite its local use as a fiber and international trade in thaumatin, the intensely sweet protein derived from its fruit, little ecological information about Thaumatococcus daniellii (Benn.) Benth. is in the public domain. Here, we combine systematic studies of the local knowledge of plant collectors and cultivators in Ghana with a thorough evaluation of the plant's natural distribution in order to explore possibilities for increasing the contribution that it makes to sustaining rural livelihoods in West and Central Africa. The natural range goes well beyond where commercial collection and cultivation have been previously reported. Local knowledge was found to be detailed and explanatory. Its acquisition has refined our understanding of the ecology of the plant, although some significant gaps remain, particularly with respect to pollination. The market for thaumatin is ripe for expansion, and the plant has untapped potential as an intercrop for rubber and cocoa. Further domestication needs to be accompanied by consideration of impacts on the livelihoods of those who presently collect fruit from the wild, and of opportunities for increasing the value that accrues within Africa through the development of local processing capacity.
4251839|There are 5,000 trees in various parts of the State, planted at various times, and recent experimental strippings of the largest have yielded 600 to 1,000 pounds of high quality cork per tree. Does this presage an American cork industry?
4255736| Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) loci were used to investigate the origin and genetic relationships of the domesticated sunflower and its wild relatives. A total of 13 primers was employed for the PCR amplifications, from which 68 polymorphic loci were scored. Analysis of RAPD data supports the origin of the domesticated sunflower from wild H. annuus. The high RAPD identity between wild and domesticated H. annuus (I = 0.976 to I = 0.997) is concordant with a progenitor-derivative relationship. However, the identities are very high and therefore provide little information regarding the geographic origin of the domesticated sunflower. Nonetheless, some inferences concerning relationships among domesticated sunflower accessions can be made. The native American varieties and old landraces form a genetically cohesive group based on RAPD evidence, probably due to their origin prior to the use of interspecific hybridization in the development of sunflower cultivars. In contrast, the modern cultivars are not genetically cohesive, perhaps due to the extensive use of intraspecific and interspecific hybridization in the development of modern sunflower varieties. Likewise, little concordance was observed between the geographical origin and genetic clustering of wild populations-an observation probably best explained by the weedy, human dispersed nature of wild H. annuus populations. The information presented here may be a reliable indicator of genetic relationships among wild and domesticated sunflower accessions. However, the processes generating the observed relationships are complex, and the occurrence of unexpected groupings or absence of predicted ones will probably remain difficult to understand. /// Los loci obtenidos de Polimorfismos de ADN Amplificados al Azar (RAPDs) fueron usados para investigar el origen y las relaciones genticas del girasol domesticado y de sus parientes silvestres. Un total de trece sequencias primarias fueron utilizadas para las amplificaciones de PCR, de los cuales 68 loci polimrficos fueron muestreados. El anlisis de identidades utilizando RAPDs entre H. annuus domesticados y silvestres (de I = 0.976 a I = 0.997) es concordante con el modelo de progenitor-derivado. Sin embargo, los valores de identidad son altos y por lo tanto proveen poca informacin en relacin al origen geogrfico del girasol domesticado. Por otro lado, alguna informacin acerca de las relaciones entre las poblaciones domesticadas pueden hacerse. La evidencia de RAPDs indica que las variedades Americanas nativas y las razas antiguas forman una agrupacin genticamente cohesiva, debido probablemente a que se originaron antes del uso de hibridacin interespecfica en el desarrollo de cultivares de girasol. En contraste, los cultivares modernos no se presentan genticamente cohesivos, debido quizs al extenso uso de hibridacin intraespecfica e interespecfica en el desarrollo de las variedades modernas de girasol; de otra manera, la poca concordancia observada entre el origen geogrfico y el agrupamiento gentico de las poblaciones silvestres-una observacin que probablemente puede ser mejor explicada por la naturaleza malezoide y de dispersin humana que las poblaciones de H. annuus poseen. La informacin presentada aqu quizs sea un indicador confiable de las relaciones genticas entre las poblaciones silvestres y domesticadas. Los procesos que han generado las relaciones observadas son complejas. La presencia de agrupaciones inesperadas o la ausencia de agrupaciones predichas en particular pobablemente ser dificil de entender. 
4252215|Several million dollars are lost in the United States each year as a result of post harvest diseases of crops. Claim costs to railroads alone in 1958 amounted to $11 million. This work demonstrates that it is possible to extend the shelf-life of fresh fruits and vegetables at room as well as at refrigeration temperatures by gamma radiation, by surface pasteurization, sprout inhibition, and also by retarding the ripening processes. The information presented should be useful to researchers, shippers, packers, and processors.
4255776| We have identified additional underground storage organs belonging to 17 species in 12 families that are being sold as medicinal in the market # 4 of Asuncin currently known as "Pettirossi." All of them grow wild in Paraguay. These organs are used locally to combat ulcers, gastritis, cough, tonsillitis, bronchitis, pharyngitis, cancer, syphilis, amenorrhea and rheumatism. They are also used as abortives, hemostatics, hypotensives, expectorants, diuretics, and as refreshing beverages. / Hemos identificado rganos subterrneos adicionales pertenecientes a 17 especies en 12 familias, que se expenden como medicinales en el Mercado # 4 de Asuncin comnmente conocido como "Pettirossi." Todas ellas crecen silvestres en Paraguay. Estos rganos se usan para combatir lceras y gastritis, tos, amigdalitis, bronquitis y faringitis, cncer, sfilis y reumatismo, y como abortivo, emenagogo y hemosttico, hipotensor, expectorante, diurtico y refrescante. 
4256962|This paper examines the abundance and Aboriginal use of botanical non-timber forest products in the Gwich'in Settlement Area in the Northwest Territories, Canada. Informants indicated that wild berries are important to Gwich'in diets and an important factor in culture and traditional land use. People collected mostly cloudberries (Rubus chamaemorus), blueberries (Vaccinium uliginosum), and lingonberries (Vaccinium vitis-idaea). The total quantities collected were estimated to be greater than other published accounts of berry gathering by northern Aboriginal peoples in North America. The total collected by the 450 households in the year 2000 was about 16,000 L. Inventories of wild berries on the landscape suggest that substantial quantities could be collected for commercial production, although the between-year supply can show considerable variation.
4255640| Lantana, or red sage (Lantana camara, Verbenaceae) is an aromatic shrub with rough, opposite or whorled leaves and four-angled, prickly or smooth stems, showy heads of small flowers (usually pink-and-yellow changing to red-and-orange) and dark-blue or blackish fruits. Native from tropical America north to lower Texas and southern Georgia, the bird-distributed plant has become naturalized in the Caribbean area, the Pacific islands, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and southern Asia. Hundreds of cultivars are grown as ornamentals in temperate climates. In warm regions, L. camara is a pest in farms, pastures and forests, providing breeding places for diseases, detrimental animals and insects, including the tsetse fly. Of 29 named races in Australia, 19 are toxic or gravely pestiferous. Active principles are the triterpenes lantadene A and B. Ingestion of 340-453 g of leaves causes liver and kidney damage, photosensitization, intestinal hemorrhage, paralysis of the gall bladder, and death in 1-4 days in horses, cattle and sheep (not goats). Ripe fruits are edible, but green, unripe fruits have caused illness and one known fatality in children in Florida. Leaves and roots are popular folk remedies. Stems are used as toothbrushes, and the leaves for polishing wood. Prickly races are grown as protective hedges around forest dwellings. /// La lantana o salvia roja (Lantana camara- Verbenaceae-) es un arbusto aromtico con speras hojas, opuestas y en forma de vertilicio, con tallos espinosos o suaves, vistosos grupos de pequeas flores (generalmente de color rosado y amarillento que cambian a rojo y anaranjado), y frutos de azul oscuro o negruzcos. Es originaria de a Amrica tropical hasta la parte baja de Tejas y el sur de Georgia, pero ha sido distribuida por los pjaros y ostros aves y sen ha aclimatado en el area del Caribe, las islas del Pacfico, Australia, Nueva Zelandia, Africa del Sur y sur de Asia. En climas templados se cultivan cientos de variedades que se utilizan como adornos. En regiones clidas, L. camara es una plaga para las granjas, los pastizales y los bosques proporcionando lugares adecuados para e desarrollo de enfermedades, animales dainos e insectos, incluyendo la mosca tse-ts. De un total de 29 especies conocidas en Australia, 19 son txicas o extremanente nocivas. Sus agetes activos son el triperpenes lantadene A y B. La ingestin de 3/4 de libra de hojas produce daos a hgado y al rin, fotosensibilidad, hemorragia intestinal, parlisis de la vescula biliar y la muerte en un periodo de 1 a 4 das en caballos, ganado vacuno y ovino (aunque no en el caprino). Los frutas maduras son comestibles, pero los verdes o sin madurar han sido causa de enfermedad y de un caso conocido de muerte infantil en Florida. Las hojas y las races son tradicionalmente remedios populares. Los tallos se utilizan como cepillos de dientes y las hojas para pulir la madera. La variedad espinosa se utiliza como cercado protector (de hasta 2 m o mas) alrededor de viviendas forestales. 
4254901|While frankincense and myrrh have been harvested from a multitude of species, certain species have predominated in history. Boswellia carteri and B. frereana are the main sources of frankincense today, while B. papyrifera was the principal source of antiquity and B. sacra was the principal species of classical times. Commiphora myrrha is the chief source of myrrh today, but C. erythraea was the principal source of ancient and classical times. Each of these oleo-gum-resins has a characteristic odor that is predominately due to a mixture of complex sesquiterpenes.
4256805| Two semi-cultivated Solanum species (S. sessiliflorum Dunal and S. stramonifolium Jacq.) are utilized by the Amazonian Indians of the Upper Orinoco Basin in Venezuela. The manner in which they have become partially domesticated by the Piaroas and other native tribes of this rain forest region is elucidated in the following text. Both species have two varieties, with and without prickles, the latter being the result of human selection. Patterns of indigenous utilization of these species brought to the selection of morphologic forms and to the differentiation of karyotypes of varieties, and exploitation of the species also reflects in the perception of them among users. S. sessiliflorum is cultivated in swiddens and has an economic role, whereas S. stramonifolium is grown in dooryards. This difference is detectable to the Piaroas, as they recognize in their folk taxonomy three different varieties of S. sessiliflorum and one of S. stramonifolium, according to the stage of domestication of the species and the way in which they are utilized. /// Este documento examina el proceso de domesticacin de dos especies de Solanum (seccin Lasiocarpa: Solanum sessiliflorum Dunal; Solanum stramonifolium Jacq.) semi-cultivadas y utilizadas por muchos pueblos indgenas de la Amazonia venezuelana, evidenciando estos aspectos entre los indgenas Piaroa del Alto Orinoco. Ambas especies presentan dos variedades, con y sin espinas, siendo aparentemente la ltima el resultado de la seleccin del ser humano respecto a la forma silvestre. Los modelos de utilizacin de estas especies por los pueblos indgenas causaron la seleccin de formas morfolgicas y la differenciacin de los cariotipos de las variedades, y la explotacin de las mismas tiene reflexo en sus percepcin entre los que las utilizan. S. sessiliflorum es cultivado en huertos en la foresta, tenendo un valor econmico, mientras que S. stramonifolium es prevalentemente dejado crecer en los corrales. Esta diferencia se puede apreciar en la importancia que las especies tienen en la cultura Piaroa, ya que ellos reconocen tres variedades de la primera especie y solamente una de la segunda, desarrollando la taxonoma local en funcin de la diferencia de utilizacin y del estadio de domesticacin de las plantas. 
4252358|Although the five southern coastal states constitute only about 11% of the total area of Brazil, the core of the country's agricultural activities, the principal commercial centers, and a high proportion of the population are concentrated within their boundaries. This article discusses the vegetation, some of the research institutions, agricultural and forest crops, and other economic features of those states.
4253375|This endemic plant of India and Ceylon is used in various ways. Besides being the source of Indian ebony, its wood is also utilized for making boxes, combs, ploughs and beams. The fruits are eaten and sold commercially. The bark is burnt by tribals to "cure" small-pox. The seeds are prescribed as cure for mental disorders, palpitation of heart and nervous breakdown. Above all, the leaves of this plant constitute one of the most important raw materials of the "Bidi" (Indian cheap smoke) industry.
4256173| Ancient texts provide an extensive list of purported medicinal benefits for Cyrenaic silphium but omit reference to this extinct, unidentified species of Ferula (Umbelliferae) as an aphrodisiac. The plant may have been so regarded since ithyphallic and testicular imagery are evoked via stylized representations of the silphium plant and seed pod on the mintage of Greek Cyrenaica in North Africa. These numismatic motifs play to an imitative principle. Whether by calculation or serendipity, commodity marketing likely drew on more subliminal communications through an association between phallus-like renderings of the plant and apotropaic function and through possible association of the geography of a love philtre with a philosophical product of Cyrene, Aristippus' uninhibited hedonism. Other circumstantial evidence draws on the writings of Avicenna, who attributed aphrodisiacal qualities to a recognized substitute for Cyrenaic silphium, and to the poetry of Catullus whose art linked silphium to carnal pleasures. /// Les textes anciens font tat d'une longue liste de prtendus bienfaits mdicinaux attribus au silphion, mais omettent toute rfrence, en tant qu'aphrodisiaque,  l'espce, disparue et non-identitie de frule Ferula (Umbelliferae). Pourtant, la plante a pu tre considre sous cet angle puisque des imageries ithyphalliques et testiculaires sont voques au travers de reprsentations stylises de plantes et de cosses de silphion dans la frappe de la monnaie en Cyrnaque grecque (Afrique du nord). Ces motifs numismatiques apparaissent comme relevant d'un principe d'imitation. Que ce soit d'une faon fortuite ou prmdite, la promotion de la denre se nourrissait probablement d'une communication subliminale qui s'appuyait sur une double association: entre une interprtation phallique de la plante et sa fonction conjuratoire, d'une part, et entre la gographie d'un philtre d'amour et un produit philosophique de Cyrne, l'hdonisme libre de toute inhibition d'Aristippe, d'autre part. D'autres indications indirectes sont issues des crits d'Avicenna, qui attribuait des proprits aphrodisiaques  un substitut reconnu du silphion et de la posie de Catullus dont l'art associait le silphion aux plaisirs charnels. 
4287834|These products are commercially obtained in the United States to the extent of about 80,000 pounds annually by extraction of about 32,000,000 pounds of alfalfa, for the most part by only three concerns. They are finding increasing use, not only in the manufacture of popular deodorants but also in medicinal preparations for treating anemia and hypertension, as a healing agent and in oral hygiene.
4251933|A potential oilseed crop in the western States
4255159| Singapore is one of the leading countries in orchid cut-flower export. Considering the size of the country, it has done remarkably well. This achievement is supported by local interest in orchid hybridization producing new hybrids, in the strategic location as a center of air transport, and in the efforts of growers and exporters. Although the pressure on land use has reduced the acreage of orchid farms in recent years, the future prospects of this export cut-flower trade are still good. /// Singapur es uno de los paises ms avanzados en la exportacin de orquidias cortadas. Considerando su poco espacio, Singapur ha avanzado mucho. Este avance est soportado por inters local en la hibridacin de orquidias en lugares estratgicos como centros de transportacin aerea y por el trabajo de los agricultores y exportadores. Aunque las fincas para la agricultura de orquidias han reducido, debido a poco espacio en el territorio de Singapur en estos ltimos aos, el futuro de el comercio de estas orquidias cortadas est muy bueno. 
4253803|Fresh samples of 16 wild edible plants were assayed for Ascorbic Acid and 10 plants were assayed for Vitamin A. Many of the plants were found to be rich sources of these vitamins when compared with some common garden fruits and vegetables.
4287839|In this comparative study of cultural, morphological and histological characteristics of species of Mentha growing in that State, it is concluded that extensive cultivation of the herb there would not be commercially profitable.
4251994|These seaweed products are finding so many industrial uses that not any one listing of those uses appears to be complete.
4288012|An extensive literature survey on seed proteins has been made, with attention given to both amino acid composition of various seed proteins and the total quantity of protein produced by the seeds. Data have been grouped according to botanical classifications and correlations drawn where possible. The various plant families have been rated according to their protentialities as protein-producing seed crops in the United States. As a beginning towards filling in some obvious gaps in amino acid composition data, amino acid assays have been carried out for the first time on nine species of seeds.
4252277|Ashwagandha, the root of Withania somnifera Dunal, is an ancient drug used in India by practitioners of Ayurvedic mediicne and as a household remedy. The drug is now official in the Indian Pharmacopoeia. Results of a survey regarding the cultivation, collection and marketing of this drug are described.
4254400|Cultivated plants are cited by anthropologists as important indicators of man's past. Medicinal species, to a large extent, have been overlooked even though in some cases these plants represent some of the social and cultural traditions of the people who use them. A number of cultivated plants have been traced from the Old World to the New World and are generally believed to have been carried there by European explorers and early settlers. However, some evidence has been accumulating to indicate that there may have been contacts other than by European colonists. One trade route that has been neglected is that of the slave trade from west Africa to the Caribbean. Three plant species, Citrus aurantifolia, Ricinus communis and Abrus precatorius, may exemplify the role and use of this route. They also indicate the migration and assimilation of west African Fulani, Hausa, and Mandingo cultures and Obeah religion into Caribbean society.
4256362| Although prohibited by law, fish poison plants are still widely used by indigenous tribes in Guyana. The latest ethnobotanical collections date from the first half of the 20th century and, from recent anthropological studies, it cannot be deduced whether the same species are still used today. The present study attempts to clarify the taxonomy and ethnobotany of the fish poisons, in particular those containing rotenone, currently used by Amerindians in northwest Guyana. Specimens were collected from 11 species known to be ichthyotoxic, both from wild and cultivated sources. It was found that fish poisons not only serve as a quick method of providing food in times of shortage, but also play an important role in magic rituals and traditional medicine. Particularly striking was the use of Lonchocarpus spp. and Tephrosia sinapou in the treatment of cancer and AIDS. Further ethnobotanical and pharmacological research should focus on the medicinal applications of rotenone-yielding plants. /// Aunque prohibidos por la ley, los barbascos an son usados ampliamente por las tribus indgenas de Guyana. En dicha regin, las colectas etnobotnicas ms recientes datan de la primera mitad del siglo XX y desafortunadamente los estudios antropolgicos contemporneos no sealan los nombres cientficos de las especies utilizadas. Este artculo tiene por objetivo aclarar la taxonoma y etnobotnica de los barbascos empleados actualmente por los amerindios del Noroeste de Guyana. Se colectaron muestras de once especies, cultivadas y silvestres, reconocidas como ictiotxicas. Se encontr que los barbascos no solo proporcionan un mtodo rpido para obtener alimento en tiempos de escasez, tambin son ingredientes importantes en rituales mgicos y como plantas medicinales. En particular es sorprendente el uso de Lonchocarpus spp. y Tephrosia sinapou en el tratamiento del cancer y SIDA. Las investigaciones etnobotnicas y farmacolgicas futuras deben enfocarse a las aplicaciones mdicas de las plantas que contienen rotenoides. 
4257139| Giesta (Cytisus) is the dominant or only woody plant on about one-quarter of the land area of the high granite mesas of interior Beira Alta, Portugal, where for at least the past 800 years the main cereal crop has been rye. During this time, a substantial fraction of this crop has been sold and taken to cities to feed the urban population, carrying with it nitrogen in the proteins of the grain. These farms have remained sustainable for nitrogen in the face of this outflow because farmers have allowed and even encouraged giesta, which is a nitrogen fixer, to occupy a substantial fraction of the land area, from which it is harvested and buried in the cultivated soil to restore its fertility. Stable N15 analysis and ecological techniques estimate quantitatively the importance of this practice. /// As giestas (Cytisus spp.) so as plantas lenhosas dominantes em cerca de um quarto das reas montanhosas granticas do interior, nomeadamente na Beira Alta (Portugal), onde durante os ltimos 800 anos, o principal cereal cultivado era o centeio. Nessa altura, uma fraco substancial deste cereal era vendida e enviada para as cidades, para alimentar a populao urbana, transportando consigo nitrognio nas protenas dos gros. Estes campos cerealferos mantinham um fluxo sustentvel em nitrognio, porque os lavradores permitiam e at auxiliavam o crescimento das giestas, que sendo fixadoras de nitrognio e ocupando uma grande parte dessa rea, cortavam-nas e enterravam-nas no solo de cultivo, mantendo, assim, a respectiva fertilidade. Anlises "Stable" N15 e tcnicas ecolgicas confirmam quantitativamente a importncia desta prtica camponesa. 
4253835|A fungus known as Cytosphaera mangiferae Died. was isolated for the first time from the diseased tissues of standing trees of Aquilaria agallocha Roxb. Irregular patches of diseased wood, a result of natural infection, are found in the trunks of standing A. agallocha trees, which are of great economic importance. A fragrant perfume locally known as 'attar' is obtained from the diseased wood by steam distillation. Incomplete or partially diseased wood is employed in the preparation of a joss-stick locally known as 'agarbatee,' which gives out fragrant fumes on burning. The fungus colonised wood blocks of A agallocha when these were inoculated artificially. There is a possibility of commercial exploitation for the production of diseased wood by artificial infection.
4253484| Peter Kalm (1716-1779), a student of Linnaeus and later Professor of Economy at the University of bo, Sweden, was sent to North America in 1748 by the Swedish Academy of Science to obtain seed and other planting stock of New World herbs, shrubs and trees for possible use in Sweden. Kalm was a close, objective observer of things botanical and cultural and had a distinct sense of the utilitarian. His Travels into North America; containing its Natural History, and a circumstantial Account of its Plantations and Agriculture in general, with the Civil, Ecclesiastical and Commercial State of the Country, the Manners of the Inhabitants, and several curious and Important Remarks on the various Subjects were, as the English title of the 1770 translation of John Reinhold Forster suggests, wide ranging in interests and observations. Kalm's own title, En Resa til Norra America, in its conciseness better reflects the student of Linnaeus. In the Travels there are a number of references to maize and maize growing. From 1749 to 1778 Kalm contributed seventeen articles on North American subjects to the Kongliga Svenska Vetenskap-Academiens Handlingar. "Beskrifning om Mays," published in two parts, in 1751 and 1752, has not previously been available in English translation. Kalm's keen observations on maize culture and utilization in the late colonial period should prove of interest to students of maize and of the history of North American agriculture. 
4254827|A germplasm collecting trip to Malawi was launched during March/April 1979, resulting in the collection of 260 traditional cultivars of pearl millet (Pennisetum americanum), 11 intermediate forms, and 6 accessions of wild Pennisetum. Most of the cultivated pearl millet samples were obtained from the hot lowlands of the lower Shire Valley, with a few samples from the cool highlands of Mulanje and Mangochi. A mixture of different types that varied in plant height, maturity, and spike characters were observed in farmers' fields. In the south, early types with loose, thin, cylindrical spikes and in the north, late-maturing types producing many tillers with stout spikes having long bristles were found. The grain is used to prepare a thick porridge, nsima, or to brew local beer, chimera. When the collection was evaluated at ICRISAT Center, Patancheru, considerable variation was observed for days to 50% flowering and plant height, but not for spike and grain characters. During the rainy season, the majority of the accessions flowered early (70 days), grew very tall (250 cm), and produced thin (22 mm), short (22 cm) spikes with small, obovate to elliptical, corneous grey grain. In the postrainy season, most of the accessions flowered a week earlier accompanied by reduction in plant height. Millet germplasm from Malawi belongs to the race typhoides and serves as a good source of genes for earliness, tillering, and corneous endosperm.
4255961| Traditional drugs used in the east Anatolia including Erzurum, Erzincan, Ari, Kars, Idir, and Ardahan provinces have been surveyed. In this report, 169 remedies obtained from 87 plant species belonging to 38 families and 10 animal species are listed with their vernacular names, parts used, methods of preparing drugs, and traditional usages. /// Bu alimada tespit edilen 38 familyaya ait 87 bitki ve 10 hayvan trnden elde edilen 169 halk ilaci hakkinda u bilgiler tablo halinde verilmitir; kullanilan materyalin mahalli isimi, Latince tam adi, tedavideki kullanili amaci, kullanilan kismi ve ilacin hazirlani ekli. 
4254486|The uses of saffron through the ages are discussed. Originally prized both as a medicament and as a dyestuff, these applications have declined in modern times; it has also been used as a perfume. The primary market now is as a food spice-by far the world's most expensive.
4256552|Primitive upland cultivars (Oryza sativa L.) were collected in northern Laos. One-hundred-thirty-two cultivars were collected in upland fields at 27 sites. Morphological and physiological traits were recorded. The materials were classified into indica and japonica types based on isozyme genotypes. We classified 106 japonica, 16 indica, two intermediate, and eight heterozygous cultivars. The japonica cultivars were characterized by glabrous hulls and sticky grains. Only two out of 16 indica cultivars were glabrous. The heterozygotes were estimated to be generated by out-crosses between japonica and indica cultivars in upland fields. The intermediate type would be the progeny of such heterozygotes. Higher polymorphism was found at two isozyme loci-Amp1 and Est2-among the japonica cultivars. Genotypic frequencies differed between populations collected from upland fields along roads and along a branch of the Mekong river. Such differences would be caused by different origins of these two populations. In this report, isozymes were indicated as valuable markers to recognize the cultivars to be of independent stock. / [Abstract in chinese]
4254294|Current agricultural realities dictate that crops be developed which can be grown with fewer petroleum inputs and on marginal croplands. A palm tree native to the Amazon Valley, Jessenia bataua, found in both swamplands and upland forests has been studied. The fruits of this tree have long been exploited by indigenous peoples as a source of oil and a milk-like drink. Chemical analyses of the oil show it to be similar to olive oil. Chemical and biological assays of the mesocarp pulp protein reveal its quality to be comparable to that of good animal protein and considerably better than most grain and legume proteins. Rats fed diets containing Jessenia bataua mesocarp oil and pulp showed normal weight gains when compared to those fed diets with similar quanities of corn oil and casein. Jessenia bataua is an example of a little-known wild plant that could provide a new source of food protein and oil for combating world hunger.
4256252| The intellectual property rights debate focuses on the flow of germplasm from developing tropical countries to developed temperate nations. Few investigators have addressed the converse. We discuss the abundance and importance of introduced plants in pharmacopoeias of northern South America. Introduced species commonly are employed as medicines throughout the region and include at least 216 Eurasian, North American, African, and Pacific species. Among the Shuar of lowland Ecuador, four introduced plants (Citrus aurantium, Cymbopogon citratus, Saccharum officinarum, and Zingiber officinale) are included in their most commonly prescribed remedies. The widespread use of introduced plants is due, in part, to the medicinal value of plants whose primary use is for food (e.g., Musa  paradisiaca). Similarly, many introduced ornamentals also have therapeutic value (e.g., Hedychium coronarium). Other species have been introduced specifically as medicines (e.g., Aloe vera). Restrictions on the flow of germplasm and plant knowledge may protect the economic interests of governments and national industry. If applied bilaterally, however, constraints on the movement of plants will limit the continued evolution of traditional medicinal systems in areas where they are most needed. / El debate sobre los derechos de propiedad intelectual se enfoca principalmente en el movimiento de germoplasma desde los paises en vias de desarrollado de las regones tropicales hacia los paises desarrollados de la zona templada. Pocos investigadores han examinado lo contrario. Discutimos la abundancia y la importancia de plantas introducidas en las farmacopeas del norte de Amrica del Sur. El uso medicinal de plantas introducidas es mu comn y incluye por lo menos 216 especies de Europa, Asia, Amrica del Norte, Africa, y la regin Pacfica. Entre las Shuaras de las tierras bajas de Ecuador, cuatro plantas introducidas (Citrus aurantium, Cymbopogon citratus, Saccharum officinarum, and Zingiber officinale) estan incluidas en sus remedios ms comunes. El extenso uso de plantas introducidas, es en gran parte, debido al valor medicinal de plantas que tienen su uso primario como alimento (e.g., Musa  paradisiaca). Muchas plantas ornamentales tambin tienen valor teraputico (e.g., Hedychium coronarium). Otras especies han sido introducidas especficamente como medicinas (por ejemplo, Aloe vera). Restricciones en el movimiento de germoplasma y conocimiento respecto a plantas quizs protejan el inters econmico de gobiernos y industrias nacionales. Sin embargo, si se aplica en una manera bilateral, restriciones en el movimiento de plantas limitar la evolucin continuada de sistemas tradiconales de medicina en los regiones en donde son ms necesarias. 
4255391| It is concluded that the botanical origin of scented myrrh (bissabol or habak hadi), a major article for export from Somalia since ancient times, is Commiphora guidottii (Burseraceae) and not C. erythraea as generally has been presumed. The reasons for the previous confusion are discussed, and an updated synonymy and distribution map for C. guidottii are given. /// Die Stammpflanze der ssse Myrrhe (scented myrrh, bissabol oder habak hadi), ein wichtiger Ausfuhrartikel aus Somalia seit alters her, ist Commiphora guidottii (Burseraceae) und nicht C. erythraea als allgemein vermutet ist. Die Grnde der eher Verwirrung sind diskutiert, und eine erneuerte Synonymik und Verbreitungskarte fr C. guidottii sind vorgelegt. 
4254113| Four citronella [Cymbopogon nardus (L.) Rendle] selections indigenous to Sri Lanka were grown for 90 days at 27/21 or 32/27C day/night temperatures in controlled environments. Leaves were harvested and oil extracted by steam distillation. Analysis for chemical constituents was carried out by gas liquid chromatography. Growing temperatures affected oil composition with the response to temperature differing among selections. The commercially desired constituent, citronellal, was higher at 27/21C than at 32/27C in all selections, whereas the commercially undesirable constituent borneol was higher at 32/27C than at 27/21C. The production of total monoterpene hydrocarbons was enhanced at 27/21C in selections C-4 and C-8 compared to 32/27C. The level of methyl isoeugenol differed among selections. 
41408260|When financial resources are limited, prioritization of species for conservation becomes essential. Elicitation of local perceptions of threats can be a useful means of prioritizing species and can help strengthen local conservation actions for important plant species. In the neighborhood of Dan forest (southern Bnin), we used quantitative ethnobotany tools to explore: a) how local communities value wild resources, b) if concerns of resource depletion can engender pro-active management to conserve plants and, if so, c) which criteria local people would use to select species deserving conservation. Ethnobotanical knowledge was collected using a range of different techniques. Results indicate that the villagers eat 41 wild plant species belonging to 17 families with the most important being Parkia biglobosa, Vitex doniana, Vitellaria paradoxa, Launaea taraxacifolia, and Prosopis africana. Local criteria against which value is evaluated include: i) the market importance, ii) the nutritive value, iii) the number of complementary uses of species, and iv) the availability of the resource. Additional criteria are species specific and include: v) rapid growth and production, vi) resistance to drought and diseases, and vii) life form. Although there is a real appreciation of threats, there is little evidence of pro-active conservation management by harvesters. The needs for further investigations to promote conservation of wild edible plants through use were explored. En situation de ressources financires limites, la priorisation des espces pour la conservation devient cruciale. Pour ce faire, connatre la perception des communauts locales par rapport aux menaces peut tre un moyen utile pour renforcer les actions de conservation. Dans la zone riveraine de la Fort de Dan (Sud Bnin), nous avons explor: a) comment les communauts locales valorisent les plantes de cueillette, b) si la prise de conscience du dclin des ressources induit des prises d'initiatives pour conserver les plantes; le cas chant, c) quels sont les critres de choix des espces prioritaires. Diffrentes approches sont utilises pour collecter et analyser les informations ethnobotaniques. Nos rsultats indiquent que 41 espces vgtales appartenant  17 familles sont consommes par la communaut, les plus importantes tant Parkia biglobosa, Vitex doniana, Vitellaria paradoxa, Launaea taraxacifolia et Prosopis africana. Les principaux critres utiliss par la communaut pour valuer les espces sont: i) la valeur marchande, ii) la valeur nutritive, iii) le nombre d'usages complmentaires et iv) la disponibilit de la ressource. Des critres additionnels comme la prcocit, la rsistance  la scheresse et aux maladies et la forme de vie sont aussi lists. Cependant, malgr l'apprciation des menaces sur les espces, il y a trs peu d'initiatives de conservation de la part des collecteurs. Au vu de ces rsultats nous avons explor les besoins de recherche pour une conservation durable des plantes alimentaires de cueillette.
4256361| Archaeological specimens of Leucaena (Fabaceae; Mimosoideae) previously published (Tamaulipas, Tehuacan Valley, and Oaxaca Valley) which are housed at the Departmento de Prehistoria, Instituto Nacional de Antropologa e Historia, Mexico City, were reexamined. Selected remains from Tehuacan were observed with scanning electron microscopy and ultrastructural features were compared to material from herbarium specimens. External epidermis near margins of legume valves provided identification characteristics (stomata abundance and morphology, texture, pubescence). In Tehuacan, L. leucocephala subsp. glabrata was found in addition to two previously reported taxa-L. esculenta and L. diversifolia subsp. stenocarpa (L. pueblana). Acacia sericea, a wild tree with edible legumes, was frequently misidentified as Leucaena. In Guil Naquitz, Oaxaca, all samples reported as L. esculenta were identified as another edible, wild legume tree, Conzatia multiflora. Chronology was assigned following published reports and, also for Tehuacan, the field catalogue. Possible use was assigned based upon evidence of chewing and insect damage, indicating ripeness of legumes. No direct evidence of cultivation was found. However, the presence of L. esculenta in Tehuacan (since ca. 4000-1000 B.C.) and of L. 1. glabrata (since ca. 300 B.C.-A.D. 780) suggests their introduction there as a cultivated plant. Se reidentificaron las muestras arqueolgicas asignadas a Leucaena (Fabaceae; Mimosoideae) en estudios previamente publicados (Tamaulipas, valles de Tehuacn y Oaxaca), mismas que se conservan en el Departamento de Prehistoria del Instituto Nacional de Antropologa e Historia, Mxico. Algunas muestras de restos arqueolgicos de Tehuacn se examinaron mediante microscopio electrnico de barrido para comparar sus rasgos ultraestructurales con los de muestras de ejemplares de herbario. La epidermis cercana al margen de las valvas de las legumbres aport las caractersticas diagnsticas (densidad y morfologa de estomas, textura, pubescencia). En Tehuacn, adems de los taxa previamente reportados-L. esculenta y L. diversifolia subsp. stenocarpa (L. pueblana)-se confirm la presencia de L. leucocephala subsp. glabrata. Mezclada con las muestras de Leucaena, se identific a Acacia sericea, un rbol silvestre de legumbres comestibles. Todas las muestras de Guil Naquitz, Oaxaca identificadas como L. esculenta se reidentificaron como Conzatia multiflora-rbol silvestre tambin con legumbres comestibles. La cronologa de las muestras se obtuvo de los resultados publicados y, en el caso de Tehuacn, tambin de una copia del catlogo de campo. Se discute el posible uso de estas plantas mediante indicadores de la madurez del fruto (masticacin y actividad de insectos). No se encontr evidencia directa del cultivo. Sin embargo, la presencia de L. esculenta en Tehuacn desde 4000-1000 a.C., y de L. 1. glabrata desde 300 a.C.-780 d.C., sugiere que se introdujo all como planta de cultivo. 
40390467|In the mountains of northwest Yunnan, China, a valuable mushroom, matsutake or song rong (Tricholoma matsutake) was commodified in the 1980s. Since that time, it has been exported in large quantities to Japan. The sale of matsutake now contributes more to the income of Shangri-la County (Diqing Autonomous Tibetan Prefecture) than any other crop, including timber and livestock. During the 1980s and 1990s, villagers in this remote region used their mushroom earnings to build spacious, beautiful new houses in the traditional local (Kham) style, and in some cases to buy motor vehicles or open businesses. In villages with access to productive matsutake habitat, virtually every household was able to build a new house; entire villages were transformed. During the 1990s, several villages developed locally based management regimes to enhance production and to address the problems and conflicts that arose from the harvest of such a valuable product. More recently, government agencies and NGOs have played a highly visible role in promoting "sustainable" harvest policies. The implications of their involvement are briefly examined and the future of matsutake harvest in Yunnan is discussed.
4255431| The discovery of staminodes within the female inflorescences, or "ears," of some Mexican maize races, and of feminized male inflorescences in annual Mexican teosinte, provides additional support for the theory that the ears of maize evolved from the male primary lateral branch tassels of teosinte by sexual transmutation, and that teosinte is the wild ancestor of maize. /// El descubrimiento de staminodios dentro de las inflorescencias femeninas o mazorcas de razas de maz Mexicana, y de espigas feminizadas en teocintle anual mexicano proporcionan apoyo adicional para la teora que la mazorca de maz evolucion del racimo central de la espiga masculina de las ramas laterales de teocintle por medio de transmutacin sexual y que el teocintle es el ancestro del maz. 
4255851| This paper considers the altitudinal zonation of Ficus on the southern slopes of the Bamboutos Mountains, Cameroon, and attempts to understand how these species have been appropriated by the Bamileke people. Five commonly used species of Ficus are propagated using pole cuttings. This genus contains important species in the farming system which have specific growth and development requirements. They mark the land ownership boundaries, as symbolic trees which give shelter to the lineage gods, and as important parts of fence structure. They are incorporated into and contribute to the management of the territory. The landscape is criss-crossed with hedges which allow the integration of cropping and breeding activities. Their rapid growth also constitutes an important source of firewood and cuttings. The Bamileke's long use of and interest in the Ficus genus is demonstrated by the variety of indigenous names given to its species. The study of these names has provided the structure for guiding this ethnobotanic research. /// Tout en situant les Ficus dans leur distribution altitudinale sur les versants mridionaux des Monts Bamboutos (ouest Cameroun), cet article se propose de montrer comment des espces de Ficus ont t appropries par la population Bamilk. Cinq espces d'usage commun sont multiplies par des techniques de macro-bouturage. Elles ont des qualits de dveloppement spcifiques qui en font des lments dominants des systmes de production Bamilk. Elles ont un rle dans l'appropriation de la terre et dans l'organisation du territoire, avec un maillage de haies qui spare l'espace cultiv et les pturages. Elles fournissent du bois de feu et des boutures grce  leur vitesse de croissance. Et elles peuvent avoir une valeur symbolique et tre un abri aux dieux des lignages. L'intrt que la population Bamilk porte  ce genre, et les usages qu'elle en a, se retrouve dans leur dnomination linguistique locale qui a t le fil conducteur de cette recherche ethnobotanique. 
4255172| Analyses of human coprolites from Dryden Cave, Nevada, indicated that the prehistoric population that inhabited the rockshelter included locally available herbs in their diet. Plant epidermal tissue remains have been identified as fragments from roots of Sagittaria (Alismataceae), a genus of semi-aquatic monocots. Other remains from the coprolites included fish bones, freshwater diatoms, seeds, and pollen. This assemblage supports the hypothesis that this prehistoric population principally exploited the available lacustrine resources of the area; comparisons with other archaeological sites suggests that this pattern had an extremely long history of development in the Great Basin. /// Die Analyse der Versteinerungen menschlicher Exkremente, die in der Dryden-Hhle von Nevada, U.S.A., gefunden wurden, lsst auf die Tatsache schliessen, dass die prhistorische Bevlkerung dieser Felsenhhle rtlich wachsende Pflanzen mit in ihre Ernhrung aufnahmen. Die berreste der Pflanzenfasern wurden als Wurzelteile der Sagittaria (Alismataceae), eine Gattung der einkeimblttrigen Wasserpflanzen, identifiziert. Weiterhin enthielten die berreste (der Exkremente) Fischgrten, Ssswasserkieselalgen, Samen, und Pollen. Diese Zusammensetzung untersttzt die Hypothese, dass jene vorgeschichtliche Bevlkerung in erster Linie die Seeufer der Gegend ausnutzte; Vergleiche mit anderen archologischen Funden zeigen, dass dieses Verhaltensmuster gerade in dem Gebiet des Great Basin bereits eine besonders lange Entwicklungsgeschichte hatte. 
4256914|More than 16 000 grains of small-grained grasses were retrieved at Ohalo II, a submerged 23 000-year-old site on the shore of the Sea of Galilee, Israel. The grains were part of a very large archaeobotanical assemblage, unique for its period and region, as well as its exceptionally good preservation. This paper proposes that these grains were a staple food at Ohalo II, based on several lines of evidence: 1. the large number of grains found; 2. the fact that all grains were fully mature; and 3. ethnographic parallels for the use of small-grained grasses in hunter-gatherers' societies as well as among present-day agriculturalists.
4254875|Cultivars of sesame from 20 countries were sampled for morphological variability. Taximetric methods, including factor, cluster, discriminant, and principal components analyses, established patterns of similarities and were used to generate groupings among the taxa. The complementary results of the analyses indicate that 8 major groups can be discerned. Plants with tetracarpellate capsules have a distinctive form and comprise the initial separation from the entire collection on the dendrogram. The second branch is a group of purple-tinged plants from India that also includes the proposed progenitor. A short, bushy, early maturing genotype consists of predominantly Turkish cultivars. Another group, composed primarily of Korean accessions, consists of unbranched plants with strap-shaped leaves. Other groups are less easily typified. This characterization of the genetic variation in sesame can be used to identify sources of genetic materials for crop improvement, as well as to provide information about the evolution and genetic differentiation of the crop.
4256920|Humulus lupulus (hops) bitter acids, which are well known for their antimicrobial property against Gram-positive bacteria have negligible activity against Gram-negative bacteria. The hop acids are, however, antiprotozoal. Ciliated protozoa were more sensitive to hop acids than amoebae. Plasmodia were also sensitive but at a lower level than to the synthetic anti malarial drugs. Beta resin, tetra iso alpha acid and xanthohumol were studied and the latter was found to be particularly potent against the protozoa. Carbon dioxide enhanced the protozoicidal effect of hop acids. New data were also presented on specific antifungal activities. In agreement with the literature hop had very little antifungal property, however a slight coaction was seen between hop and sorbate on R. nigricans. Carbon dioxide had no enhancing effect on the inhibitory activity of hop against fungi as well as E. coli.
4254534|A time-honored but increasingly less common method of making a molasses from sweet sorghum, Sorghum bicolor, on a Tennessee farm is described. The thin, greenish juice extracted from the stalks is skillfully boiled and attended with specially designed equipment, resulting in a desirable sweet, golden product.
4255505|The contention that objects in the hands of male and female deities sculpted on the exterior of the Kesav Temple at Somnathpur near the city of Mysore, Karnataka State, India, represent maize ears is rejected on linguistic, religious, sculptural, archaeological, agricultural, and botanical grounds. The stone inscriptions associated with the temple list items or commodities used in worship, maize is not included. We find no evidence for maize figuring in any kind of religious ritual or worship. The word for maize used currently in the Kannada language is "Musukin Jola" which refers to a kind of millet resembling sorghum ("jola"). This appellation is of recent origin and does not appear in any literary work contemporary with the period of construction of Somnathpur temple. The wall images do not fully simulate in form and proportion the actual human figures. The beaded ornamentation, likewise, of the hand-held object shows considerable variation and its comparison whether on qualitative or quantitative basis with actual maize kernels of both primitive and modern maize is inappropriate. The variation in form and proportion and stylistic features of these objects is ascribed to their being the work of different sculptors. Maize now grown near the temple comprises modern cultivars, especially hybrids released during the early 1960's. It is inconceivable that none of the primitive and advanced types of maize purported to be represented in the temple sculpture would have been considered worthy of cultivation from the thirteenth century to the present time. We hold that these temple sculptures do not represent maize or its ear but an imaginary fruit bearing pearls known in Sanskrit as "Muktaphala."
4255066|Nipa palm (Nypa fruticans) is a useful, versatile, and fairly common component of mangrove forests of Asia and Oceania. Because of its usefulness, it has been introduced into West Africa. In addition to a host of local subsistence uses ranging from medicines to hats and raincoats, some important commercial uses have led to management efforts and are initiating a new interest in its potential. Sap production from nipa produces an intoxicating beverage, sugar, vinegar, and alcohol that may be used as fuel. The tapping of nipa for sap involves a rather unusual kicking or beating process called "gonchanging." Further research in nipa sap production, together with development of more efficient collection and handling methods, might greatly enhance the usefulness of this palm.
4254773|Local names of vascular plants, accompanied by botanical specimens, were collected in the John Crow Mountains, Portland Parish, Jamaica. Each of the names was volunteered by one local informant; many were independently corroborated by others. We recorded 91 names of forest trees and shrubs, 20 names of climbers, and 33 names of other plants. The uneven distribution of local names among different categories of plants is discussed. The names are mostly of English origin, with a scattering from Spanish, Amerindian and West African languages. Many names are not listed in the standard floras; 20 names are apparently hitherto unrecorded in print. The same name was often found to be applied to a different species from the usage given in the floras, showing the variation in vernacular names from one part of the island to another.
4254571| Prosopis pod production was compared in 3 field trials in southern California, i.e., a typical orchard planting, an irrigation trial, and a heat/drought stress trial. Thirteen species representing North American, South American, Hawaiian, and African germplasm were evaluated. Hawaiian and African accessions were eliminated from the irrigation trial by a minus 5C temperature. The most productive pod producers were P. velutina accessions from southern Arizona. In the fifth season, 5 trees of the most productive accession, i.e., P. velutina 32 had a mean pod production of 7.2 kg/tree with a range of 3.2-12.2 kg/tree. P. chilensis and P. alba trees of the same age were much larger but had less pod production. Trees in the driest irrigation treatment had the greatest pod production. Pod production estimates of 3,000-4,000 kg/ha were obtained in the dry irrigation treatment by P. velutina 20 which received 370 mm rainfall in the year preceding harvest. 
4253432|Of the many edible tuberous legumes that occur wild in the humid tropical-subtropical regions of India - viz., Eriosema chinense, Moghania tuberosa, M. vestita, Pueraria tuberosa and Vigna capensis - only Moghania vestita is cultivated as a minor food crop. It is eaten raw by the tribals of the Khasi and Jaintia hills (Assam, India) and is grown by them in the mountainous tract between 1000 and 1600 m, in a landscape predominantly occupied by Pinus khasya grassland mixed vegetation. Since no significant account of this root crop is available and no mention of it is made even in some of the recent compilations on economic plants (11, 13), a survey of current information dealing with its early history, cultivation, distribution and usage is presented here.
4255087| This paper presents the basic data gathered in a study of plant names, uses, folklore, and cultivation practices among the residents of Tukukan in the central Bontoc region of the northern Philippines. Scientific names and phytogeographic statuses are provided for 325 specimens representing 265 genera and 109 families. In addition to expanding our knowledge of Bontoc ethnobotany, the study has provided insights into past plant use with important implications for understanding agricultural evolution in the region. /// Presentamos en este artculo los datos recopilados en un estudio de los nombres, usos y cultivo de las plantas y su papel en las tradiciones orales de los residentes de Tukukan en la regin Bontoc central en el norte de las Filipinas. Indicamos los nombres cientficos y las categoras fitogeogrficas de 325 ejemplares de herbario que representan 265 gneros en 109 familias. Adems de aumentar nuestros conocimientos de la etnobotnica bontoc, este estudio nos permite profundizar en el conocimiento del antiguo uso de las plantas y sus implicaciones en la evolucin agrcola de la regin. 
4255522|The Knuckles range of forests has been identified as a unique biological resource in Sri Lanka with much biodiversity. It is also important as a watershed which feeds the Mahaweli reservoir system. Having considered the present hazardous land-use practices such as cardamum production and shifting cultivation, the Knuckles range has been declared a national wilderness area. The Forest Department is in the process of preparing the management plan for the area. There are about 48 villages in the vicinity of the forest. This study attempts to estimate the composition of income in the peripheral communities, particularly the extraction of non-timber forest products (NTFP) from this range of forests. Data were collected using structured questionnaires from 60 households in three villages in the vicinity of the forest. The rural economy is described using a farming systems approach and the net income contributed by each activity in the farming system was estimated. Results show that nine components of the farming system use resources from the village and the forest, with at least 47 plant species used by the villagers for different purposes. Cardamum production and shifting cultivation contribute significantly to the total income of the household, but the majority of households in the study depend upon forest resources to supply some portion of their income. Nevertheless, the monetary value of the annual income generated by NTFP is much lower than income from either cardamum production or shifting cultivation. If cardamum production and shifting cultivation are to be restricted under the conservation program, there could be additional pressure put on NTFP. Therefore, we suggest a study of the natural regeneration capacity of selected NTFP; such information should be used in finalizing the management plan in the Knuckles range of forests.
4256225| Wild gathering of the leaves of the submerged marine monocotyledon Zostera marina L. once formed the basis of a vigorous insulation industry in North America. Since European colonization, fishing communities used detached leaves, deposited on the beach by tide and wind, as green manure and domestic insulation, but beginning in the late 1800s, these leaves were utilized in a commercial insulating product. Two companies manufactured seagrass "quilts" that were installed in many buildings of the period including some of the first skyscrapers. We here describe the importance of seagrass gathering for the coastal community of Yarmouth County, Nova Scotia, Canada. Interviews with older residents and analysis of county and company archives facilitate the reconstruction of what was once a seasonally important activity. Our findings have direct application to global seagrass protection initiatives. /// L'assemblage sauvage des feuilles submergs du monocotyledon marine, Zostera marina formait a un moment les bases d'une industrie d'isolation en Amrique du Nord. Depuis la colonisation Europenne, des communauts de pcheurs utilisaient des feuilles dtaches, dposes sur la plage par la mare et le vent comme engrais vert et isolation domestique; mais commenant  la fin des annes 1800, ces feuilles spares furent utilises dans un produit commercial insultant. Deux compagnies manufacturaient des "dredons" de pailleule qui furent installes dans plusieurs btiments de l'poque y compris dans certains des grattes-ciel. Nous dcrirons ici l'importance de l'assemblage de la pailleule pour la communaut ctire de Yarmouth County, Nova Scotia, Canada. Des entretiens avec des rsidents d'un certain ge ainsi qu'une analyse du dpartement et des archives de compagnies, facilitent la reconstruction de ce qui tait  une poque, une activit saisonnire importante. Nos dcouvertes ont une application directes sur les initiatives de la protection globale de la pailleule. 
4253851| Poison scraped from blowpipe darts made by the Mak Indians of the Upper Rio Uneiuxi, Rio Negro basin, and prepared from the latex of Naucleopsis mello-barretoi (Standl.) C. C. Berg, contained ca. 4.4% cardiotonic glycosides; one of the major glycosides present was -antiarin. Latex from N. mello-barretoi yielded ca. 1.3% of a complex mixture of cardiotonic glycosides; the major component was -antiarin and it was accompanied by small amounts of -antiarin, probably antioside, and unidentified glycosides. The bark of the plant had only traces of cardiotonic glycosides; some components appeared to be the same as those in the latex, but the antiarins and antioside were absent. Cardiotonic glycosides were not detected in the leaves. 
4255942|We investigated the weaving of the kato alu, a traditional Tongan basket. Unlike most ordinary baskets which are woven from coconut or pandanus leaves, kato alu are woven from tuaniu (Cocos nucifera, Palmae, midrib of leaf) and alu [Epipremnum pinnatum, Araceae, aerial roots]. Anciently the common people wove and decorated the kato alu and gave them to chiefs, nobles and kings as gifts at wedding and funeral ceremonies. Today, however, the weaving techniques are known to only a few people. It appears that these techniques will likely disappear from Tonga within a generation. Ko e lipooti ko eni na'e vakai'i 'ae ngaahi founga a'ia 'oku kau ki he lalanga 'o e kato faka-Tonga, koe kato alu, pea na'a ku vakai'i foki 'a e tuaniu (Cocos nucifera) mo e akau, ko e alu (Epipremnum pinnatum) a'ia 'oku na kau i he lalanga 'o e kato ia. 'I he ngaahi kuonga kuo hili, na'e lalanga 'a e kato alu 'e he kakai, 'o nau foaki me'a'ofa 'a kato ko ia ki he kau hou'eiki pea mo e Tu'i 'i he taimi na'a nau fai mali mo e fai putu. Ko e 'uhinga 'a e lipooti ko eni, ke fakamatala pe fakailonga 'a e ngaahi founga faka-Tonga ki hono lalanga 'o e kato mahu'inga ko eni, 'a'ai koe kato alu.
4255214| Production of "vino de coyol" (palm sap wine) from Acrocomia mexicana (Arecaceae) was observed in Honduras. Trees are selected, felled, and tapped by cutting a small trough into one section of the crownshaft. The sap is collected, bottled, allowed to ferment for 24 h, and sold. The resulting beverage contains 12.86% alcohol but has little nutritional value. This is an example of a small-scale industry based on the harvest of wild palms. /// La produccin de "vino de coyol" o vino de savia de palma de la especie Acrocomia mexicana ha sido reportada en ciertas regiones de Honduras. La pequea industria local se basa en la cosecha y produccin del vino, obtenido a partir de dicha palma que se encuentra en estado silvestre. Una vez que los rboles son seleccionados y talados, una incisin de tamao y forma variable en la base de la corona de hojas, favorece la salida de la savia que, es posteriormente colectada en botellas. El tiempo de fermentacin del producto as colectado es de 24 horas, una vez listo el vino, este es vendido en los mercados locales. Dicho vino es de escaso valor nutritivo y su contenido en alcohol es del 12.86%. 
4254899| This investigation of the biological and cultural factors determining evolution of the potato in the Andes focused on a hybrid swarm comprising weeds and cultivated forms of Solanum  ajanhuiri. Three species of bee visitors were likely pollinators of potato flowers in altiplano fields. Mapping and statistical analyses of the juxtaposition of weed and cultivated diploid potatoes indicated situations where insect-mediated hybridization between cultivated and noncultivated taxa was likely. Folk belief that a valley in the Department of La Paz, Bolivia, was the source of the important cultivar, ajawiri, is supported by the variety of weeds of S.  ajanhuiri from this site that show cultivated characteristics. Farming practices of Aymara subsistence cultivators should facilitate the introduction of genetic recombinants into cultivated gene pools. Although evidence is presented that humans have directed potato evolution on a small scale, it is most likely that the domestication process has always been passive in its essential aspects. Human intervention may be more deliberate during times of crop failure. 
4256148| 1999. Acacia pennatula is a native tree found commonly on cattle pastures and other disturbed sites in the mid-elevation zone of Veracruz, Mexico. The pods are a favorite food source for free ranging cattle. Pod collection and production has been commercialized at a small scale. The results of this study strongly suggest that the management of acacia trees for pod production has the potential for providing an environmentally sound, locally derived food source for cattle while maintaining tree cover on pasture lands. Soil type has a strong influence on stand structure and pod production; the largest pod crops with the largest and most nutritious pods are found on Andosols and Acrisols, as opposed to the unproductive Regosols. We suggest that the current system could be expanded by promotion and marketing of the pods and improved management of the acacia stands. /// Acacia pennatula es un rbol nativo que se encuentra comnmente en los pastizales y sitios perturbados de la zona de mediana altitud de la regin central del estado de Veracruz, Mxico. Sus vainas son una fuente de alimento para el ganado de libre pastoreo. La colecta y comercializacin de las vainas se ha realizado a pequea escala. Los resultados de este estudio sugieren que el manejo de los rboles de acacia para la produccin de vaina tiene un gran potencial como fuente alimenticia para el ganado, con la ventaja de ser un sistema ambientalmente adecuado y localmente producido, en el que adems se mantiene la cubierta arbrea en los pastizales. Tambin encontramos que el tipo de suelo tiene una fuerte influencia en la estructura de los huizachales y en la produccin de vainas; en los Andosoles y Acrisoles se producen las mayores cosechas y las vainas son de mayor tamao y calidad nutricional que las producidas en los Regosoles. Sugerimos que el sistema actual puede ser expandido a travs de la promocin y mercadeo de las vainas y un sistema mejorado de manejo de los huizachales. 
25568892|This paper treats the identification of modeled images of cucurbits-gourds and squash-in the ceramics of the Late Formative Era (or Chorrera culture) of coastal Ecuador (ca. 900 B.C. to 100 A.D.). These images provide good evidence for the sophisticated cultivation of cucurbits by the native peoples of the coast of South America from very early time periods in Ecuador. Their importance in the iconography of Late Formative cultures certainly demonstrates that the domestication of fruits with both hard and soft rinds must have been well established by the time ceramic production had begun. Depictions of combinations of animals with cucurbit-shaped bodies in the mortuary ceramics of the Late Formative period also demonstrate that cucurbits were an essential part of life (and death) on the coast of Ecuador.
4256096| This paper describes the collection and trade of dry medicinal and aromatic plants (MAPs) from Gorkha District in central Nepal to Delhi in northern India. It is based on two years' field work in Nepal and India. Substantial amounts of MAPs are available and accessible in the northern and middle parts of the district; currently 35 species are traded and further 13 species traded elsewhere are found in the district. Approximately 3700 individuals are engaged in commercial MAP collection; in the northern and middle parts of the district 25-100% of households in a given village participate in the collection. The average daily income is competitive with other income generating activities and commercial MAP collection constitutes from 15-35% of poor households' annual income (households with less than 300 US$ annual income). Commercial MAP collection is generally not important in the southern part of the district. Almost all species are harvested in the wild. The harvested and dried MAPs move southward from the forests and alpine pastures in Nepal to the main Indian markets on the Gangetic plain. Marketing margin analysis of the six main products traded shows that collectors' net margins average 46.6% of the Delhi wholesale price; the overall average net margin for traders is only 3.0% and for Terai wholesalers 31.5%. The main potentials and pitfalls in connection to improving the trade for the collectors are briefly discussed. There are indications that the commercial MAP collection in central Nepal is not unsustainable. /// L'article dcrit le ramassage et le commerce de plantes mdicinales et aromatiques (PMA) en provenance du district de Gorkha au centre du Npal destins au march de Delhi en Inde du Nord. L'article est bas sur une tude de deux annes ralise sur le terrain au Npal et en Inde. Des quantits importantes sont disponibles et accessibles dans les secteurs du nord et du centre du district. 35 espces sont commercialises rgulirement et 13 autres espces commercialises ailleurs poussant galement dans le district. Environ 3700 personnes sont engages dans le ramassage de ces produits. Entre 25 et 100 pour cent des familles d'un village quelconque dans le secteur du nord ou du centre du district participent au ramassage. Le revenu quotidien moyen est comptitif avec d'autres activits productrices d'un revenu et le ramassage commercial des PMA reprsente entre 15 et 35 pour cent des revenus annuels des familles pauvres (familles d'un revenu annuel infrieur  300 dollars US). Le ramassage des PMA  l'chelle commerciale est gnralement peu important dans la partie sud du district. Presque toutes les espces sont recoltes dans des rgions sauvages. Les plantes recoltes et sches sont transportes des forts et alpages du Npal vers les principaux marchs indiens situs dans la plaine du Gange. Une analyse des marges commerciales des six produits principaux vendus montre que les marges moyennes nettes des ramasseurs reprsentent 46,6 pour cent du prix de gros de Delhi. La marge commerciale nette des premiers acheteurs est seulement de 3 pour cent et de 31,5 pour cent pour les grossistes Terai. Les possibilits et piges essentielles en ce qui concerne une amlioration de la situation des romasseurs sont tudis. Certains facteurs semblent indiquer que le ramassage commercial des PMA pourrait tre durable. 
4255845| The Batemi, agropastoralists of north-central Tanzania, inhabit a landscape of savanna and scrub woodland. We identified 61 species of woody plants used by the Batemi for 19 types of items. The reports indicated 39 species are used for construction, 19 species for cultural artifacts, 23 for firewood and 6 live trees for fences, boundaries and shade. The Batemi have extensive knowledge of species habitat and distinctive management strategies for woody vegetation, particularly for the well-forested irrigation channels and spring sources. To date, a total of 90 species of woody plants have been identified as useful to the Batemi. Compared to the total number of species found within the study area, the Batemi use 79% of woody plant species in the area. /// L'utilisation et la conservation de la vgtation boise par les Batemis du cont de Ngorongoro, Centre-Nord de la Tanzanie. Les Batemi, groupes agro-pastoraux du Centre-Nord de la Tanzanie, habitent une rgion de savanne et de broussailles. Nous avons identifi 61 espces de plantes boises utilises par les Batemis pour 19 types d'items. L'tude rvle que 39 espces sont utilises pour la construction, 19 espces pour des accessoires culturels, 23 pour du bois de chauffage et six espces d'arbres vivants sont aussi utilises comme clture, frontire et ombrage. Les Batemis ont une connaissance apprciable de l'habitat de ces espces et des stratgies de gestion distinctes  la vgtation boise, particulirement pour les canaux d'irrigation et d'eau de sources o l'on retrouve une vgtation luxuriante. Jusqu' prsent, un total de 90 espces de plantes boises ont t reconnues utiles pour les Batemis. En comparaison, au nombre total d'espces identifies dans la rgion tudie, les Batemis utilisent 79% des espces de plantes boises dan la rgion. 
4254455|Various agricultural strategies have been tried in swidden areas of tropical rainforest. Some have focused on food production, others on cash crops. Certain strategies have disrupted the ecological balance of the rainforest, while others developed with ecological stability in mind, but rarely have food production and cash cropping been coterminous and maintained ecological stability. Rattan in tropical rainforest swidden of southeastern Borneo is an indigenous system of producing both food and a cash crop without ecological disruption.
4287775|Chilis in Latin American cooking, pimento in stuffed olives, paprika, cayenne pepper, bland bull-nosed peppers stuffed with meat, and the very pungent African chilies are all varieties of Capsicum peppers.
4256429|The history of plant introductions to tropical countries can often be determined by studying the history of their botanical gardens, arboreta, and agricultural experiment stations. Pohnpei has been a center for plant introductions in Micronesia for more than 100 years. Beginning in the 1830s foreign visitors and settlers brought in new crops and ornamental plants. Purposeful introductions to support agricultural development took place during the colonial regimes of Germany, Japan, and the United States. The illustrious history and significant role played by the Pohnpei Agriculture Station-once one of the foremost centers in the world for the study of tropical agriculture-and its current situation are discussed. For the first time ever, a comprehensive list is provided of 433 plant species, hybrids, cultivars, and varieties introduced to the island, including 403 taxa grown at the Station. /// Kawewehpen poadepen kapidelongodohn soangsoangen tuhkekan nan kahndekehkan kalapw wiawi sang petehkpen en wehi pwukan arail wasahn nak en tuhke, kasansal en tuhke, oh ropirop en tuhke. Pohnpei wia wasahn neknek en tuhke kesempwal sangete sohnpar 100 samwalahro. Tepda nan pahr 1830, mehn likihkan oh sohn seilok kan kapidelongodo soangsoangen tuhke en mwenge oh mehn kalingan. Tuhke mehn wia keirdahn wehi pil wiawi nan mwein Sehmen, Sapahn, oh Amerika. Nan daropwe wet mie kawewehpen poadepoad oh pwukoah kesempwal en Pohnpei Agriculture Station-me rahn teio kin wia ehu wasa keieu kesempwal nan sampah ong ni ropirop en tuhke oh ia mwomwen wasa rahn wet. Daropwe wet pil kilelehdi eden soangsoangen tuhke 433 kapidelongodohng Pohnpei iangahngki meh 403 me pweida oh kak diarek nan Agriculture Station en Pohnpei.
4252859|Thirteen species of Hibiscus, grown in southern Florida in 1964, varied significantly in fiber yield, yield components, and fiber quality characteristics. Correlation analyses first included, then excluded, improved varieties of the fiber plant species, kenaf (Hibiscus cannabinus L.) and roselle (H. sabdariffa L.). Certain pairs of traits were positively correlated; others were negatively correlated, whether or not the fiber varieties were included. Other pairs of traits were positively correlated when the fiber varieties were included, but not when they were exluded; these differences suggested significant effects of artificial selection for increased fiber content and more rapid growth. Conversely, still other pairs of traits were positively correlated when the fiber varieties were excluded, but not when they were included. Examination of means showed that this discrepancy could not be attributed to the effects of conscious selection. Strains with a shrubby growth habit had larger stalks and higher fiber percentages, and yielded more fiber than those with a viny growth habit. However, fiber content and quality, and stalk size on the one hand, and ploidy, genome constitution or geographic distribution on the other, showed no evident correlations. The possibility was discussed of transferring the moderate nematode-resistance of a wild strain to a cultivated strain of H. cannabinus, without sacrificing fiber content.
4252804| A collection of maize obtained from the Choc Indian tribe of Darien, Panama, differs from published accounts of maize reported as typical for the area in size and in methods of cultivation. The collection may represent a segregating population from crosses occurring between the races Chococeo and Coastal Tropical Flint. Implications of this hypothesis with regard to problems of introduction, present geographical occurrence, and transportation of these races by nomadic human vectors are briefly discussed. 
4257169|Benincasa hispida, from tropical Asia, is cultivated primarily for its edible fruit. To explore its domestication and ethnobotany, we made collections from two regions where it may have been domesticated: (1) Southern China/Southeast Asia, represented by southern Yunnan Province (China) and northern Laos; and (2) the Indian subcontinent, represented by southeastern Nepal. Domestication has resulted in diverse fruit sizes, shapes, and colors; seed sizes and shapes; and, in some accessions, the loss of tendrils. Modern cultivars have larger fruit, earlier flowers, and lower nutritional content than traditional cultivars. Allozyme diversity was low, divergence between these two regions was low, and these results do not clarify the place of domestication. The greater morphological diversity of plants from Yunnan and Laos, as compared to Nepal, suggests domestication in the former region. In all accessions, male flowers precede females. Benincasa hispida is prominent in some traditional stories and rituals. /// [Abstract in Chinese]
4256118| The nativity of Merremia tuberosa is examined with historical, ecological, linguistic, cladistic, and biogeographic data. All data indicate that the species was originally from southern Mexico and nearby Central America. The closest relatives of M. tuberosa are M. austinii and M. discoidesperma. Merremia tuberosa was first recorded from Mexico as xixicamtic in the middle 1500s by Fr. Bernadino Sahagn; no connection was made between that plant and the Convolvulaceae by subsequent authors. Plukenet later recorded M. tuberosa in Jamaica in 1691. By 1731 or earlier M. tuberosa was cultivated at the Chelsea Physic Garden, London, England. Soon afterward, wood rose had been spread around the world and grown for medicine. The roots contain resins that formerly were used across the tropics and in Europe as laxatives. Now plants are grown for their flowers and ornamental fruits that are used by florists. /// El origen de Merremia tuberosa es examinado por medio de consideracin de datos histricos, ecolgicos, lingsticos, cladsticos y biogeogrficos. Los resultados indican que la especie es originalmente del sudeste de Mjico y cercanias de Centro-america. Los relativos mas cercanos de M. tuberosa son M. austinii y M. discoidesperma. Merremia tuberosa fue inicialmente documentada como xixicamtic a mediados de 1500 por Fr. Bernardo Sahagn. Ninguna conexin fue hecha entre la planta y convolvulaceas por autores subsiguientes. Mas tarde Plukenet document M. tuberosa en Jamaica en 1691. En 1731  antes, M. tuberosa fue cultivada en el "Chelsea Physic Garden" Londres, Inglaterra. Pronto despus, wood rose fue esparcida alrededor del mundo y cultivada con propsitos medicinales. Las raices contienen resinas que anteriormente fueron usadas como laxantes atravez de los trpicos y Europa. Hoy en da, las plantas son cultivadas por sus flores y frutas ornamentales usadas por los floristas. 
4256021| The Hispano-Arabic culture in the Iberian Middle Ages is a major chapter in the history of the use and knowledge of plants. The Andalusi agronomists, botanists and physicians assimilated their heritage of Iberian, Hispano-Roman, and Hispano-Visigothic cultures with North-African and Eastern influences. They developed a profound knowledge of the plant world and managed a high diversity of species. A part of this ethnobotanical and agronomic heritage was transmitted not only to the local cultures and generations that followed, but also to peoples on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean by the Spanish colonists in the New World. This paper presents a study of the principal works of the so-called Andalusi Agronomic School (10th-15th centuries) and their agronomist authors: Arib ben Said, Ibn Wafid, Ibn Hayyay, Abu l-Jayr, Ibn Bassal, al-Tignari, Ibn al-Awwam and Ibn Luyun. We also raise questions about Andalusi ethnobotany, the introduction of Oriental species in the Iberian Peninsula and the prospects for ethnobotanical research through the philological study of Hispano-Arabic writings. /// La cultura hispanorabe que se desarrolla durante el Medioevo Ibrico incluye un captulo destacado relativo al uso y conocimiento de las plantas. Los agrnomos, botnicos y mdicos andalusies asimilan el patrimonio de sus culturas predecesoras (ibrica, hispanorromana, hispanovisigoda) y junto a las influencias orientales y norteafricanas de su poca, alcanzan un gran conocimiento del mundo vegetal manejando una elevada diversidad de especies. Una parte de este patrimonio etnobotnico y agronmico ser transmitido ms all de su mbito temporal y geogrfico, alcanzando incluso el otro lado del Atlntico, a travs de los colonos espaoles en el Nuevo Mundo. Este trabajo nos introduce en el estudio de los principales autores y obras de la llamada Escuela Agronmica Andalus (siglos 10-15). Entre los agrnomos estudiados se encuentran, Arib ben Said, Ibn Wafid, Ibn Hayyay, Abu l-Jayr, Ibn Bassal, al-Tignari, Ibn al-Awwam e Ibn Luyun. Se plantean algunas cuestiones sobre la existencia de una etnobotnica andalus, sobre la introduccin de especies orientales en la Pennsula Ibrica, y sobre las perspectivas de la investigacin etnobotnica a travs del estudio filolgico de las obras y autores hispanorabes. 
4252927|Existence of eight different mold metabolites designated aflatoxins is now recognized. All are of known chemical structure and one has been synthesized. Molds in foods and feeds have been a problem for many years but aflatoxin focused attention on the problem of mold toxins and gave a tremendous impetus to research in this area. Aflatoxin is important because of the potential threat it poses. Of prime importance is the recognition and awareness that the threat exists. The first and best approach is prevention. Much knowledge as to how to reduce molds sharply is available and this should be applied at all stages of culture, harvest, transportation, and processing. Physical separation, by removal of contaminated seed, has proved feasible in some instances. Effective removal of aflatoxins by extraction, e.g., with polar solvents, has been accomplished. Several chemicals including ammonia, methylamine, sodium hydroxide, hydrogen peroxide and ozone have been used with success to reduce substantially, inactivate or destroy aflatoxins in contaminated oilseed meals but there appears to be some reduction in protein quality during most of the treatments.
4287935|Because of the increasing importance of the oil palm in the agriculture of the East Indies, a study of the variations in vegetative and floral characteristics is important. Some varieties have fruit with greater oil-yielding potential than others, and selections for greater yields must begin with these.
4252096|The 29 essential oils described in this article are the backbone of the cosmetics industry and are of great importance also to other industries. Their sources are almost exclusively outside the United States, many of them being in the Old World. To develop more New World sources is of utmost importance.
4287774| Production of Manila hemp, the world's foremost cordage fiber, was a Philippine monopoly from the early nineteenth century, when it was introduced into world trade, until 1930. Since then commercial plantings have been established in several other countries, but over 90% of all abac production still comes from the Philippines. World production of the fiber in 1951 amounted to about 200,000 tons. 
4256227| The essential oil from leaves and branches of cultivated Illicium floridanum is dominated by 22.53  2.23% linalool and 13.93  1.61% linalyl acetate. The essential oil from leaves and branches of cultivated I. parviflorum is dominated by 68.14  0.88% safrole, 13.18  1.01% linalool, and 11.89  0.87% methyl eugenol. Besides the Lauraceae and Piperaceae, the Illiciaceae is another natural source of safrole. /// El aceite esencial de las hojas y las ramas del Illicium floridanum cultivado est dominado por linalool (22,53 + 2,23%) y el acetato de linalyl. El aceite esencial de las hojas y las ramas de I. parviflorum est dominado por safrole (68,14 + 0,88%), linalool (13,18 + 1,01%), y el metilo de eugenol (11,89 + 0,87%). Admas del las familias Lauraceae y Piperaceae, la familia Illiciaceae es otra fuente del safrole. 
4254074|Sixteen populations of Limnanthes alba Bentham are described for variation in plant growth, floral morphology, and reproductive traits in terms of a biosystematic survey of interpopulation differentiation. Earlier discussions of two varieties by other botanists are reviewed in relation to our findings of several overlapping and polymorphic population clusters ("races"). A field evaluation of seed yield at Davis suggested that variability in L. alba be fully described for its use in crop improvement by hybridization and selection.
4255062|Three research trips were made to the Tokelau Islands (including Swains Island), located north of Samoa in Western Polynesia, and a collection of the flora of the islands was made. At the same time, Tokelauan informants were interviewed about native names and uses of plants found there. This information was augmented by a literature review, by data on plant specimens stored at the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, and by interviews with other Tokelauans now living in Samoa. From this information, an account of Tokelauan plant names and their ethnobotanical uses was compiled.
4256457|The economic importance of gaharu is assessed in three villages on the Bahau River in north-central Borneo to gain insights about the incentives for harvesting and management of a valuable nontimber forest product. Three indicators of economic value-level and proportion of income, returns to labor, and proportion of gaharu collecting households per village-are used to demonstrate the multiple incentives that NTFP income can generate. The concept of incentive logic is developed as an analytical technique to show how economic values can be linked to incentives for different types of management actions. The article discusses how incentives from gaharu income were most likely linked to the stake local people had in the resource, their preferences about which forest product to harvest, and their willingness to engage in collective action. These incentives contributed to sustainability to the extent they induced actions that reduce threats to the resource. The article suggests that an understanding of the influence of economic incentives on people's resource management can be improved by recognizing three factors: the multiple incentives created by an income, the logical link of those incentives to a management action, and the influence of other sociocultural and biophysical factors on management.
4256807|This study focuses on the genetic diversity of the cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) grown by the Chibchan Amerindians of Costa Rica. The authors collected cassava in various locations within two Amerindian Reserves: Talamanca, inhabited by Cabecares and Bribris, and Coto Brus, inhabited by Guaymi. Through the use of isozyme electrophoretic techniques we found variation for six out of nine systems analyzed, namely DIA, EST, IDH, MDH, PGI, and SKD. No variation was found in ADH, PGD, and PGM systems. We analyzed the distribution of variation within and between the reserves, and found most of the variation occurred within reserves (Gst = 0.1084). Only low levels of genetic differentiation were found between reserves (Nei's genetic distance = 0.0088). The high levels of genetic variation within reserves that we found concur with results of previous studies on cassava grown by South American Amerindians and farmers. The role of the breeding system of cassava and the agricultural practices of Amerindians in the maintenance of high levels of genetic diversity are discussed.
4256608| Cassava is clonally propagated, but Amerindian farmers also use plants from volunteer seedlings to prepare stem cuttings. Although sexual reproduction plays a role in cassava's evolution it is poorly studied. We examined one aspect of cassava reproductive ecology, seed dormancy and germination. Volunteer seedlings emerge from a soil bank of seeds produced during the previous cycle of cultivation that remain ungerminated through the fallow period, then germinate synchronously after vegetation is slashed and burned. Laboratory experiments showed that germination can be enhanced by mechanical scarification and also by dry heat treatment, suggesting that burning after field clearing could help break dormancy. Germination was also stimulated by high temperatures (35C) that in nature indicate bare soils, and inhibited by temperatures (25C) close to those in soil shaded by vegetation and by light. Seeds of both wild and domesticated cassava exhibit physiological dormancy, an adaptation for germination in periodically disturbed habitats. In addition to these preadaptations, preliminary results also suggest specific adaptations of domesticated cassava to the distinctive disturbance regimes of swidden agriculture. 
4253957|This paper deals with the plants used by aboriginal tribes of Ratan Mahal and surrounding hills. Some of the important food and medicinal plants restricted to these tribes or this region are discussed. Many uses of plants reported here have not been recorded earlier. "What does interest us academically and practically is how to salvage some of the medicobotanical lore before it shall have been forever entombed with the culture that gave it birth...." (6).
4255340|Seeds, bulbs, and cuttings of exotic plant species, including plants cultivated exclusively as ornamentals, were being advertised for sale in printed circulars in the United States by 1800. By the end of the 19th century seed trade catalogs were prolific and often listed dozens of exotic species that were already naturalized in the U.S. or new introductions from foreign suppliers. Among the species routinely offered for sale were many now considered noxious (e.g., Berberis vulgaris, Eichhornia crassipes, Isatis tinctoria) or at least undesirable (e.g., Cannabis sativa, Eleusine indica, Lysimachia nummularia). This commerce was not only responsible for the introduction and spread of some species earlier than previously recognized (e.g., Bryonia alba, Schinus terebinthifolius) but also caused the deliberate distribution of other species assumed to have been spread by accident alone (e.g., Aegilops cylindrica, Bromus briziformis, Bromus mollis). Seedsmen's introduction of substantial genetic variation through repeated introductions, inadvertent directional selection for local races in their gardens, their widespread use of seeds (compared to cuttings or non-fertile plant material), and the sowing of seeds at high density under cultivation all enhanced the opportunity for eventual naturalizations. The largely unrecognized proliferation of this industry in the 19th century and the ready access that consumers had to these species via mail order contributed to the rapid and extensive dissemination of at least 139 alien species throughout the United States. /// Samen, Zwiebeln, und Stecklinge von exotischen Pflanzenarten, inklusive Pflanzen, die man ausschliesslich als Zierpflanzen kultivierte, wurden schon um 1800 durch Rundschreiben in den USA zum Verkauf angeboten. Zum Ende des 19. Jahrhunderts waren Samenhandelskataloge weitverbeitet und fuehrten oft Dutzende von exotischen Arten, die sich schon in den USA heimisch gemacht hatten, oder neues Material von auslaendischen Lieferanten. Unter den Arten, die ueblicherweise zum Verkauf angeboten wurden, befanden sich nun viele, die heute als schaedlich (z. B. Berberis vulgaris, Eichhornia crassipes, Isatis tinctoria) oder wenigstens als unerwuenscht (z.B. Cannabis sativa, Eleusine indica, Lysimachia nummularia) angesehen werden. Dieser Handel war nicht nur verantwortlich fuer die Einfuerung und Verbreitung mancher Arten zu einem frueheren Zeitpunkt als bisher vermutet (z.B. Bryonia alba, Schinus terebinthifolius), sondern verursachte ebenso die absichtliche Verbreitung anderer Arten, von denen man annahm, dass sie lediglich durch Zufall verbreitet wurden (z.B. Aegilops cylindrica, Bromus briziformis, Bromus mollis). Der Anstoss zu wesentlicher genetischer Variation durch wiederholte Einfuhr durch Samenhaendler, unbeabsichtigte natuerliche Auslese von lokalen Arten in ihren Gaerten, der weitverbreiteter Gebrauch von Samen (im Gegensatz zu Stecklingen oder anderen Arten der vegetativen Vermehrung), sowie dem dichten Saeen von Samen im Anbau, dies alles erhoehte die Gelegenheit zur schliesslicher Naturalisierung. Die weitgehend unerkannte Ausbreitung dieser Industrie im 19. Jahrhundert und der leichte Zugang, den Kunden zu diesen Pflanzenarten per Postversand hatten, trugen zur raschen und ausgedehnten Verbreitung von mindestens 139 fremden Arten in den ganzen USA bei.
4256640| Indigenous Peruvians have used totora (Schoenoplectus californicus: Cyperaceae) vessels or caballitos for fishing along the coast of Peru since pre-Inca times. Presently, caballito use and construction are declining in numerous fishing towns. Participant observation techniques were employed to investigate aspects of caballito construction. S. californicus stems were used to make four bundles to serve as the caballito body. The bundles were lashed together with single and double twist rope made from Furcraea andina (Agavaceae) leaves. The stem of Guadua angustifolia (Poaceae) was used as a paddle for the vessel. Caballito construction has varied little through time. We documented a decline in the use of traditional plant materials due to their scarcity. Huanchaco fishermen have played an important role in maintaining the tradition of building caballitos. /// Los habitantes de la costa Peruana han usado embarcaciones de totora (Schoenoplectus californicus: Cyperaceae) o caballitos de totora, para la pesca martima desde la poca pre-Inca. En los ltimos aos, el uso y la construccin de los caballitos de totora ha disminuido en diversos pueblos de pescadores. Se investigaron los aspectos etnobotnicos de la construccin de los caballitos de totora usando tcnicas de participacin y observacin. Se usaron tallos de S. californicus para armar cuatro bultos que sirvieron para construir el cuerpo de la embarcacin. Los bultos fueron amarrados con sogas de tipo simple y doble hechas con las fibras de Furcraea andina (Agavaceae). Para el remo de la embarcacin se uso el tallo de Guadua angustifolia (Poaceae). La tcnica de construccin de caballitos de totora ha cambiado muy poco a travs del tiempo. En este estudio documentamos una disminucin en el uso tradicional de plantas como materiales de construccin. Los pescadores de Huanchaco han tenido un rol muy importante en mantener el uso de los caballitos de totora para la pesca artesanal. 
4254956|Ethnobotanical field notes compiled in the southern Ecuadorian highlands by W. H. Camp and his associates during 1944-1945 are reported. Common (Spanish and Quechua) names, uses, and collection data are given for 317 taxa. Taxa are cross-referenced by common names and uses.
4254708|The horticultural strategies of traditional tropical agriculturists center on the preservation of harvest security. In addition to cultivating simultaneously numerous species of crops, traditional tropical farmers also plant multiple varieties of each crop. These cultivars are frequently distinguished on the basis of color, ranging from white to yellow to red to purple. In addition to varying in appearance and taste and in resistance to environmental stresses, the color-based varieties often differ in length of growing season. By practicing multicolored, intraspecific polyculture, the traditional tropical farmer either provides himself several opportunities to secure a complete single harvest and/or staggers his harvest throughout the year and thus, in either case, preserves his lifestyle. Acceptance of Green Revolution technologies by traditional tropical farmers would accelerate if they were offered multiple, high-yielding varieties of staple food crops of varying color and maturation periods.
41242863|Morels (Morchella spp.) are prized wild edible mushrooms. In the United States, morels are the focus of family traditions, local festivals, mycological society forays, and social media, as well as substantial commercial trade. A majority of the anglophone research on morels has been conducted in Europe and in the U. S. Pacific Northwest and Midwest. This literature provides insights into a diverse and plastic genus, but much of its biology and ecology remains a mystery. In 2004, we initiated a study of morel mushroom harvesting in the U. S. Mid-Atlantic region in response to concerns that morels might be in decline in the national parks in that area. This paper presents results from that research with an emphasis on morel hunters' local ecological knowledge of morel types, phenology, habitat, vegetative associations, and responses to disturbance. We conclude that experienced morel harvesters possess local ecological knowledge that complements scientific knowledge and can increase our understanding of the complex and regionally variable ecology of Morchella and inform conservation efforts.
4254246|This report traces the historical literature on the development of the damask rose industry. It begins with a sadly sparse fossil and archaeologic record and continues to the present. The perfection of methods for the production of attar and rose water from Rosa damascena is reviewed, as are cultural practices and current research programs. The various arguments to explain the evolution of Rosa damascena are presented along with accessory information needed to evaluate them critically. Evidence is presented to support the theory that R. damascena was originally an eastern Mediterranean hybrid between R. gallica and R. phoenicia. It is unfortunate that so few botanists have been willing to study this domesticate, as too many horticulturists have been concerned only with cultivation and higher yields. Most of the current literature on this species is either inaccessible, because of language or general unavailability, or of a popular nature and therefore difficult to evaluate. It is hoped that this review will encourage more research on industrial roses and aid those who wish to search the literature. May it also suggest to crop evolutionists that much work remains to be done on the subject of the domestication of ornamental and medicinal plants.
4256114| Saw palmetto [Serenoa repens (Bartr.) Small] is the most common native palm in the U.S. and, possibly, the most useful. Cattle and wildlife, especially black bears and white-tailed deer, consume the fruits. The flowers are a favorite nectar source for honey bees, and the sprawling, shrubby palm provides excellent cover for birds, reptiles, and small animals. Saw palmetto's edible fruits were a staple in the diet of Florida's pre-contact inhabitants. Vegetative parts of the plant supply fiber, wax, and roof thatch. Current interest in saw palmetto stems from its use in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. An estimated 6 800 000 kg of the fruit are shipped to Europe each year. Preliminary data suggest that the economic value of saw palmetto harvesting may exceed that of cattle grazing, the common use of much saw palmetto habitat. /// Saw palmetto (Serenoa repens) es la palma mas comn en los Estados Unidos y, quizs se puede decir, es la mas utl. El ganado y los animales silvestres, particularmente los osos negros y los venados cola-blanca, comen las frutas. Las flores del saw palmetto son una fuente favorita de nctar para las abejas de miel, y la palma extendido y fruticoso ofrece una cubierta excelente para los reptiles, aves, y animales pequenos. Las frutas comestibles del saw palmetto fueron un alimento principal en la dieta de la gente indgena de la Florida. Las partes vegetativas producen fibra, cera, y hojas para hacer techos. Hoy en da, el inters en saw palmetto resulta del su uso para tratar la inflamacon benigna de la glndula prstata. Se estima que una cantidad de 6 800 000 kg de las frutas es exportada a Europa cada ao. Estudios preliminares sugieren que el valor econmico de la cosecha de saw palmetto excede el valor de ganadera, cual es el uso mas comn de la tierra donde crece saw plametto. 
4252565|Mixed cultures of bacteria anaerobically attacking cellulosic materials produce sufficient acetic, butyric, lactic and formic acids and ethanol and glucose to account for most of the original carbon. These products contain 60 to 90% of the free energy of the cellulose and are all usable as carbon sources for the aerobic growth of yeast.
4252056|This desert shrub of the American Southwest offers an unusual and as yet undeveloped source of a valuable liquid wax. The principal problem in its commercial exploitation is that of cultivating the plants.
4254649|The green leaves of Cassia obtusifolia are fermented to produce a food product, kawal, used by certain tribes of Sudan as a meat substitute. Following fermentation for 2 wk the product is sundried and used when needed. Protein content of kawal is about 20% on dry matter basis. Two microorganisms are most commonly recovered from fermenting as well as dried kawal: the bacterium Bacillus subtilis and a species of the fungus Rhizopus. Other uses of the plant are discussed.
4256490| A monodominant forest of Brosimum rubescens Taub. located in an Indian Reservation was compared with a similar forest located on a farm owned by non-Xavante settlers, in terms of its phytosociology and the patterns of plant use. In both areas, 60 (10  10 m) nested-plots were established in a representative portion of the forest. All woody plants were identified, and their common and scientific names and uses were recorded. The ethnobotanical study was conducted by open-interviews initially and ranking at a later stage for a total of two years of study. The Xavante people use more species, 56% of the 57 species fit in five categories of direct use while the settlers have direct use for 50% of the 44 species found in the forest. The Xavante culture has strong links with the native biodiversity, valuing the multiple use of the species while the settlers use them mostly for timber. The species with higher IVI in the phytosociological study were also the most valued in both communities. Brosimum wood is used for the making of traditional clubs by the Xavante, the fruits are edible and attract wildlife for hunting. The non-Xavante people have been heavily logging these trees for fence posts used in the large farms of the region. 
4254452|Ethnobotanists are frequently involved in the initial documentation of plant remedies used in traditional and popular domestic medicine. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of herbal medicine as actually practiced requires the recording of the variables that can influence the therapeutic outcome. For pharmacological and toxicological testing, the factors controlling the final amount of active compound(s) taken by the patient are especially critical. Since most ethnobotanical studies omit such information, a framework for reporting the major factors is given. Topics discussed, including problems of the literature and suggested formats, are: 1) the plant: common name, scientific name, infraspecific variation, the voucher specimen; 2) preparation of the medicine: plant part, collection, storage, preparation; 3) therapy: general and adjunct, disorder treated, kind of practitioner, dosage regimen, route of administration, response to therapy, status of use; 4) the patient.
4253979|These studies describe the plant inventory and subsistence pattern for occupants of Tell-el-Hesi during the Hellenistic occupation period. Attempts are made to interpret the differences seen in the various areas and loci excavated. Statistical analysis has been used to validate these interpretations.
4254877|Guayule, Parthenium argentatum, is a well-known source of high quality natural rubber. Despite the fact that a wealth of information exists in the literature on polyploidy, aneuploidy, and apomixis of guayule, little is understood of the basis for rubber variation in the native shrub. Selective breeding continues in an attempt to enhance the human use of this economic plant against a background of disappointingly low rubber content in experimental germplasm. Successful economic development of the guayule resource depends, in part, upon the introduction of high rubber-containing diploid plants into the selection process. Other factors contribute to problems relating to human use of guayule. This paper reports high rubber-containing diploid plants from native stands in Mexico. Since our data indicate that ploidy is not related to rubber content per se, we suggest that observed rubber variation among naturally occurring plants may be a consequence of ecological factors, possibly mineral nutrition, water relations, geologic substrate, and clone longevity.
4287885|About eight million pounds of this wax, obtained from wild plants in northern Mexico and adjacent parts of Texas, have been used annually in the United States in recent years-three million of them in the chewing-gum industry, the rest in the manufacture of coating and polishing preparations.
4288011|A review of the seaweed resources of South and East Asia may promote current research on the economic marine algae of this part of the world. The algae have to be regarded as very important in the future economy of a crowded world.
4256878|Huckleberries are major components of the understory vegetation in coniferous Pacific Northwest forests of the United States. Vaccinium species also have a long history of human use. However, little research has been done to ascertain how they respond to common forest management practices. We used data obtained from old-growth, young thinned, and young unthinned Douglas-fir stands in western Oregon to evaluate how forest management could potentially influence species abundance and product supply. Our analysis focused on three species: Vaccinium ovatum, V. parvifolium, and V. membranaceum. Results were variable, but indicate that overstory stand conditions and forest management can affect huckleberry species abundance. However, to assess fully the effects of forest management on these species, studies specifically designed to target areas where people harvest these products are needed. Measuring relevant product attributes such as commercial productivity is also critical.
4251959|This State offers great facilities for domestic production of many vitally important vegetable products, for the supply of which the United States has heretofore been dependent upon foreign sources. This is particularly true of tannin which can be obtained from native tanbark oak and introduced Australian wattle.
4287980|Proceeds from the production of by-products may spell the difference between profit and loss in the citrus canning industry. The three primary by-products of citrus are dried citrus pulp, molasses, and citrus peel oil. The most important utilization of citrus wastes is as stock feed, which consumes large quantities of dried pulp and citrus molasses. Citrus seed oil, alcohol, pectin, bland syrup, and feed yeast have been produced to a lesser extent.
4254296|The genus Glycine has had a stormy taxonomic history. Recent studies of herbarium specimens and cytological and morphological analyses of living collections, coupled with chemotaxonomic investigations, have made it necessary to revise the genus. In the first part of this paper the current taxonomic status of the genus Glycine is reviewed. The soybean was domesticated in China. It is unfortunate that the literature concerned with the antiquity and historical development of the soybean is obscured by legends and myths. In the second section of the paper, the archeological, historical, agricultural and botanical literature is summarized in order to present all the known evidence as to when, where and by whom the soybean was domesticated. The soybean is the world's premier source of dietary vegetable oil and is nutritionally an excellent and inexpensive source of protein for use either as human food or animal feed. In addition, the soybean has numerous industrial uses. In the last section of this paper the traditional uses of fermented and nonfermented soybeans in the East as well as the high-technology-developed uses of soybeans in the West are summarized.
4253987|The aqueous extract of Rhododendron canadensis (L.) Torr. (Ericaceae) has strong biostatic properties, mainly observed on yeast and bacteria. The presence of hydroquinone in a concentration of 0.15% of the dry weight of the flowers is responsible for this action. This product is already known as a good bacteriocide, even against some pathogenic species.
4255447|Grain legumes continue to occupy an important place in human nutrition as sources of protein, vitamins and minerals. From a nutritional point of view chickpea, pigeonpea, mung bean, urd bean, cowpea, lentil, soybean and peanut are the important grain legumes for the millions of people in semi-arid and tropical regions of many Asian and African countries. These legumes are used in various food forms after suitable processing depending on the regions of their production and consumption. Such aspects as production and consumption, processing and food uses, chemical composition, and effects of processing on the nutritive value of these legumes are the important topics of this paper. To enhance their utilization, new potential and diversified food uses have been highlighted. Future research needs and priority areas are listed to improve their utilization and nutritional quality.
4254962|The marama bean, Tylosema esculentum, is a drought-tolerant legume native to southern Africa. Its seeds are comparable to soybeans in protein content and quality, its oil content approaches that of peanuts, and the plants might be desirable as a forage legume. Although the marama bean has great potential as an arid land crop in the United States, studies of the species are extremely limited. The current investigations have demonstrated that the plants can be grown successfully in an arid region of the United States, at least under experimental conditions, and that a healthy seed crop can be expected in about 4.5 years.
4252901| Lebanese-grown seed of Lupinus termis Forsk, was found to contain 2.075-2.34% of total alkaloids calculated as lupanine on the basis of the whole nondefatted seed and 9.19-9.36% of fat. Besides () lupanine, known to be the alkaloid of L. termis seed, the seed was found to contain 13-hydroxylupanine in a small amount and four, possibly six, other unidentified alkaloids in small or trace quantities. 
4255807| Paleoethnobotanical studies in the Zapotitn Valley of north-central El Salvador revealed that a species of grass, Trachypogon plumosus, was in common use as a thatch material at the Cern site, a small mesoamerican farming community inundated by volcanic ash circa A.D. 590. Although the grass must have been common in Precolumbian times, repeated attempts to collect fresh specimens from the modern valley were unsuccessful. A survey of the major herbaria with collections from El Salvador likewise demonstrated a lack of modern specimens from the Zapotitn Valley. The elimination of the T. plumosus from this area and its characteristic savanna habitat probably occurred as a result of the introduction of competing Old World grasses and excessive herbivory. This finding demonstrates why conservationists working in the tropics should be concerned not only with the extinction of rain forest habitats, but with the elimination of other habitats as well. /// Investigacines paleoetnobotnicas en la Valle de Zapotitn del norte-centro de El Salvador han revelado que una especie de csped, Trachypogon plumosus, fue usada como material de paja en el sitio de Cern, una pequea comunidad agricola mesoamericana que fue cubierta con ceniza volcnica cerca A.D. 590. Aunque el csped fue comn en el tiempo Precolombino, numerosos esfuerzos para recoger los espcimenes del herbario del valle actual han sido infructuosos. De igual manera, un reconocimiento de los herbarios mayores con coleccines de El Salvador no han revelado la existencia de este csped en el Valle de Zapotitn. La eliminacin de T. plumosus de esta rea y su sabana caracterstica, probablemente ha ocurrido como resultado competencia de la producida por la introduccin de csped del Viejo Mundo y la actividad ganadera. Estos hallazgos demuestran que los conservacionistas que actualmente trabajan en los trpicos deberan tener en cuenta no solo la extincin de los habitats de bosques hmedos, sino tambien de la eliminacin de los otros habitats. 
4287996|Although the garden tomato is very highly self-pollinated in most regions of cultivation, it is cross-pollinated at much higher rates in the range of its wild relatives-Ecuador, Peru, and northern Chile. Cohabitation of garden tomatoes and an intercompatible species in this region permits extensive gene exchange between them. These factors lead to a high level of variability and promote rapid evolution of new forms.
4251960|This beverage, imbibed by 20 million South Americans in Brazil, Paraguay and Argentina, is prepared by brewing the leaves of a species of holly. Annual production is in excess of 200,000 metric tons of dried leaves, and physiological effects in addition to the stimulation resulting from its caffein content are attributed to the beverage.
4255968| Ethnobotanical information is presented on use, management, folk nomenclature and classification of the "xoconochtli" (Stenocereus stellatus) as well as on the role of this plant in subsistence of the Nahua, Mixtec and Popoloca peoples from the Tehuacn Valley and La Mixteca Baja in Central Mexico. Among all three groups. S. stellatus was used for various purposes but mainly for its edible fruits. Different variants of this species were distinguished, named and classified by indigenous people according to characteristics of the fruit; particularly size, color and flavor of the pulp, spininess and thickness of the peel. Wild plants characteristically had small red sour fruits with many spines and thick peel, while individuals selected for cultivation usually differed in one or more of these characters. Three general forms of interaction between people and this species were found: 1) gathering of useful products from the wild; 2) management of wild populations in situ which involves the sparing and enhancing of individuals with more desirable characteristics and the removal of others during clearance of the land for agriculture; and 3) cultivation, mainly in home gardens, by propagation of vegetative parts from desirable individuals. Fruit yields per individual and per population were measured and compared in wild, managed in situ and cultivated populations from the Tehuacn Valley and La Mixteca Baja. Wild and cultivated individuals from La Mixteca Baja yielded more than wild and cultivated individuals from the Tehuacn Valley. Within each region, fruit yields were similar in wild and managed in situ populations but significantly larger in cultivated populations. Forms of management of this plant species are discussed in terms of availability of products and demand for them in the local economy. /// Se presenta informacin etnobotnica del "xoconochtli" (Stenocereus stellatus) sobre usos, manejo, nomenclatura y clasificacin folk asi como su papel en la subsistencia de la poblacin Nahua, Mixteca y Popoloca del Valle de Tehuacn y la Mixteca Baja, regiones localizadas en la parte central de Mxico. Estos grupos indgenas utilizan al "xoconochtli" de diferentes maneras pero principalmente lo usan por sus frutos comestibles. Distinguen, nombran y clasifican diferentes variantes de esta especie de acuerdo con las caractersticas de sus frutos, especialmente por su tamao, el color y sabor de la pulpa, asi como por la cantidad de espinas y grosor de su cscara. Los individuos silvestres generalmente presentan frutos pequeos, rojos y de sabor agrio, con cscara gruesa y espinosa, mientras que los individuos cultivados pueden diferir en una o varias de estas caractersticas. Se encontraron tres formas generales de interaccin entre la gente y estas plantas: 1) recoleccin de productos utiles en poblaciones silvestres; 2) manejo de poblaciones silvestres in situ, el cual se lleva a cabo durante el aclareo de terrenos para agricultura, y en el cual se dejan en pie y se promueven los individuos con las caractersticas mas deseables y otros son eliminados; y 3) cultivo, principalmente en huertas, a travs de la propagacin de partes vegetativas de individuos con caractersticas deseables. Se evalu y compar la productividad de frutos por individuo y por poblacin en poblaciones silvestres, manejadas in situ y cultivadas del Valle de Tehuacn y de La Mixteca Baja. En los individuos y poblaciones silvestres y cultivados de La Mixteca Baja la productividad de frutos fu mayor que en los individuos y poblaciones silvestres y cultivados del Valle de Tehuacn. Dentro de cada regin la productividad fue similar en poblaciones silvestres y manejadas in situ, aunque significativamente mayor en las poblaciones cultivadas. Se discuten las diferentes formas de manejo en relacin con la disponibilidad de recursos de esta planta y su demanda de acuerdo con su papel en la economa de la gente de la regin. 
4256519| Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is a cyanide-containing root crop used by many indigenous groups in Amazonia. Despite the availability of low-cyanogenic potential (CNP) cassava, the Tukanoans of the Colombian Amazon region and many other indigenous groups in lowland Amazonia cultivate primarily high-CNP cassava as their staple crop. Based on the assumption that the Tukanoan preference for high-CNP cultivars is due, in part, to the ability of these cultivars to consistently produce higher yields, we tested the null hypothesis that low-CNP cassava has yields that are greater than or equal to the yields of high-CNP cultivars in Tukanoan gardens. To do so we compared the yields of low- and high-CNP cassava in 10 Tukanoan gardens and in one control garden. We reject the null hypothesis: high-CNP cultivars yielded more than low-CNP cultivars in both traditional Tukanoan Indian gardens and a control garden. Although there are several possible explanations for the differences in yields, the most plausible inference is that the high-CNP plants are more likely to be disease and/or insect resistant. /// La yuca o mandioca (Manihot esculenta Crantz) es una raz comestible que contiene cianuro, utilizada por numerosos grupos indgenas en la Amazonia. A pesar de que existe una variedad de yuca de bajo contenido en cianuro (CNP), los Tukanos de la regin amaznica colombiana y muchos otros grupos indgenas en las tierras bajas del Amazonas cultivan principalmente la variedad de yuca con alto contenido en cianuro como alimento bsico. Basndonos en la presuncin de que la preferencia de los Tukanos por los cultivos de yuca de alto contenido en cianuro, se debe, en parte, a que esta variedad produce mayores rendimientos, intentamos comprobar la hiptesis de que la yuca de bajo contenido en cianuro logra rendimientos iguales o mayores que los de los cultivos de alto contenido en cianuro que realizan los Tukanos. Para ello, comparamos los rendimientos de la yuca de alto y de bajo contenido en cianuro en diez huertos de los Tukanos y en un huerto de control. Debemos descartar la hiptesis: los cultivos de alto contenido en cianuro rindieron ms que los de bajo contenido, tanto en los huertos tradicionales de los indgenas como un el huerto de control. Aunque existen varias explicaciones posibles para esta diferencia en rendimiento, la ms plausible es que las plantas con alto contenido de cianuro poseen mayor resistencia a los insectos y a las enfermedades. 
4252044|Wheat, sorghum, rice, barley, oat and rye grains are actual or potential raw materials for the industrial production of starch, but only the first three are so used. All six contain about 60% to 70% starch, and yield oil and protein as valuable byproducts of starch manufacture. Successful competition of these grains with the present major industrial sources of starch-corn, potatoes and cassava-depends on a number of factors, including comparative costs of the raw materials, efficiency of processing methods, and value of the byproducts.
4256580| For Australian Aboriginal people plant resins have played an important role in both trade and the manufacture of hafted tools. In particular, the resins of the Xanthorrhoea species were widely distributed and favored resources. The aim of this pilot study was to: (1) determine if starch grains were present in all of the Xanthorrhoea resin samples examined, and (2) determine the feasibility of discriminating between resins of different Xanthorrhoea species by the morphological attributes of their starch grains. The results established that starch grains were present within all of the Xanthorrhoea species resins that were examined. Moreover, for the purpose of identifying resins from within this genus the preliminary results suggest that starch grains have sufficient differences in attributes to allow discrimination between species. The results suggest that further research into the morphological attributes of starch grains in resins may prove to be an efficient and cost-effective means by which species identification could be achieved for small portions of archaeological resin samples. /// Las resinas de las plantas han tenido un papel muy importante para los Aborigenes Australianos en el intercambio y en la manofactura de herramientas con mangos. En particular, las resinas de las especies Xanthorrhoea eran recursos ampliamente distribuidos y preferidos. El objetivo de este estudio piloto fue: 1) establecer si los granos de almidon estaban presentes en todas las muestras estudiadas de resina de Xanthorrhoea y 2) determinar la factibilidad de discriminacion entre las resinas de diferentes especies mediante los atributos morfolgicos de sus granos de almidn. Los resultados establecieron que los granos de almidn se encontraban presentes en todas las especies de resina Xanthorrhoea examinadas. Ademas, para este proposito de identificar resinas desde dentro del genero glos resultados preliminares sugieren que los granos de almidn tienen suficientes diferencias en atributos para permitir la discriminacin entre las especies. Los resultados indican que futuras investitigaciones dirigidas a las caracteristticas morfolgicas de los granos de almidn en las resinas pueden ser un medio eficiente y barato a travs del cual se puede lograr la indentificacion de especies. 
4255110| Domesticated populations of the South American grain chenopod quinua (Chenopodium quinoa subsp. quinoa) have been formally classified on the basis of pigmentation and inflorescence morphology, and informally grouped according to ecotypic variation. Comparative analysis of morphometric and electrophoretic data taken from 98 populations reveals two fundamental elements: a coastal type from southwestern Chile and an Andean type distributed at elevations above 1,800 m from northwestern Argentina to southern Colombia. Andean quinua can be further divided into northern and southern groups, with the northern populations weakly marked by broad, unlobed leaf blades, sharply margined fruit, and relative uniformity. With the exception of allozymes unique to coastal quinua, characteristics that differentiate populations from the Chilean coast and the northern Andes represent a subset of variation present in the southern Andes. This could reflect diffusion from a possible center of origin in the southern highlands. Overall phenetic association places populations from the Altiplano of Peru and Bolivia in a central, linking position. The high genetic identities among all quinua populations argue against a polyphyletic origin for the crop and specific differentiation among cultivar groups. The overall pattern of variation supports the ecotypic approach toward landrace classification of quinua, although congruence between ecological and morphogenetic variation is not complete. While genetic diversity is clearly centered in populations of the southern Andes, conservation efforts should focus on well differentiated quinua populations at the poorly marked northern and southern extremes of distribution. /// Las poblaciones domesticadas de quinua (Chenopodium quinoa subsp. quinoa)-una quenopodicea de grano-han sido clasificadas formalmente por su pigmentacin y morfologa de la inflorescencia; y se han agrupado informalmente de acuerdo a la variacin ecotpica. El analisis comparativo de datos morfomtricos y electroforticos que se tomaton de 98 poblaciones muestran dos elementos fundamentales: un tipo costeo del suroeste de Chile y un tipo andino distribuido in alturas sobre los 1,800 metros que van desde el noroeste Argentino hasta el sur de Colombia. Esta quinua andina se puede subdividir luego en un grupo norteo y otro sureo. Las poblaciones norteas se separan debilmente por sus hojas anchas y sin lbulos, frutos de mrgenes afilados, y una uniformidad relativa. Con la excepcin de alonzimas tpicas de la quinua costea, las caractersticas que diferencian los poblaciones de la costa chilena y de los Andes norteos son un subconjunto de variacin que se encuentra dentro de las quinuas de los Andes sureos. Esto podra reflejar difusin desde un posible centro de origen ubicado en los altos andes del sur. Asociaciones fenticas de las caractersticas coloca a las poblaciones del Altiplano del Peru y Bolivia en un posicin unificadora central. La alta identidad y unidad gentica de todas las poblaciones de quinua argumentan en contra de un origen polifentico del cultivo y de diferenciacin de especies entre grupos de cultivares. El patron general de la variacin favorece la evidencia de una clasificacin basada en ecotipos para las variedades primitivas. La correspondencia entre la variacin ecolgica y la morfogentico no es completa. Los esfuerzos de conservacin deben enfocarse en poblaciones bien diferencidadas de quinua que existen en los lmites pobremente definidos de las extremos sur y norte de la distribucin de la planta aun cuando la variacin gentica est centralizada en las poblaciones de las Andes del Sur. 
4287800|The papaya tree and barley are the only flowering plants now being utilized to any extent for commercial production of enzymes. The papaya fruit yields papain, a protein-digesting enzyme which can be used to eliminate or modify protein in several industries. Barley is germinated to malt, which contains amylase, necessary for the conversion of starchy materials to fermentable sugars. Malt is used to a great extent in the brewing and distilling industries. Other plants, for example, alfalfa, oranges and beans, are used to a minor extent in the preparation of enzymes for specific industrial purposes.
4254768|Cucurbita pepo, represented by cultivated forms of squash, pumpkins, and ornamental gourds, is a morphologically diverse species. Although several classifications of the cultivars have been proposed, none has been fully accepted. In an attempt to clarify the systematics of the C. pepo cultivars, allozyme variation was assayed. Twelve loci representing 6 enzyme systems (GOT, IDH, MDH, PER, PGI, and PGM) were screened. Seven of the loci were polymorphic. Electrophoretic data were collected for 50 accessions representing 14 commercial cultivars and a landrace from Mexico. Statistical analyses of the allozyme data revealed a biochemical basis for characterizing cultivars that agrees with morphology. Principal component analysis and cluster analysis revealed a major subdivision within the species above the level of cultivars. Genetic identities among groups of cultivars were much lower than those usually found among conspecific populations for outcrossing plants, possibly reflecting the influences of populational subdivision, drift, and selection particular to C. pepo.
4251944|Millet and sorghum are important food grains in many foreign countries, but they are almost unknown for this purpose in the United States. World production of these two grains averages almost a third of the production of wheat, almost half of the production of rice, and slightly more than the production of rye. Asia, Africa and the Soviet Union produce most of the millet and sorghum grown in the world.
4255833| World horticultural export markets are growing rapidly. The affluent societies of developed countries are increasingly interested in novel foods, particularly if they have added health value. Nut exports in general are growing rapidly as a convenient snack, nutritious health food, and to be added to confectionery or processed into various subproducts. Gevuina is a little known proteaceous tree nut from southern Chile and Argentina. It is similar in quality to the nut with the fastest export growth: macadamia. Unlike the subtropical macadamia, gevuina prospers in cooler oceanic climates. Attempts are under way to develop gevuina commercially in Chile and New Zealand. We review the present knowledge on gevuina and discuss its limitations and prospects for development. A considerable amount of research is still needed to develop gevuina commercially but it could have a promising future. One of the main limitations to gevuina propagation (infection with Phytophthora) has been identified. /// Los mercados mundiales de exportacin hortcola estn creciendo aceleradamente. Las sociedades prsperas de pases desarrollados estn cada vez ms interesados en comidas novedosas, particularmente si adems poseen valor para la salud. Las exportaciones de nueces en general estn creciendo rpidamente como snacks, alimentos saludables y nutritivos, para ser agregadas a golosinas y procesadas en diversos subproductos. Las poco conocidas nueces de gevuina provienen de un rbol de la familia Proteaceae del sur de Chile y Argentina. Sus cualidades son semejantes a las de la nuez de mayor crecimiento en valor de exportaciones: la macadamia. A diferencia de las macadamias, de origen subtropical, la gevuina prospera en climas ocenicos ms frescos. Se est intentando desarrollar comercialmente la gevuina en Chile y Nueva Zelandia. Este trabajo revisa el conocimiento actual sobre gevuina y discute sus limitaciones y potencial de desarrollo futuro. An queda mucho para investigar para desarrollar la gevuina, pero podra tener un futuro prometedor. Una de las limitantes iniciales ms serias para la multiplicacin de gevuina, la infeccin por Phytophthora cinnamomi, ha sido identificada. 
4256425| The Mapuche communities of Argentina and Chile have a vast knowledge of useful plants from temperate forests of Patagonia. However, present processes of transculturation and uprooting seem to have caused a decline in wild plant gathering. This is a case study of a Mapuche community that now lives far away from the forests that their ancestors inhabited. Nineteen families from the Rams Mapuche community (83% of the total population) were interviewed using a semi-structured questionnaire, with the aim of finding out which edible wild species are known and still used, and what factors, according to the people perception, have caused the decline. People mentioned a total of 49 edible wild plants including four types of resources: Araucaria araucana seeds, the fruits and roots of bushes and herbs, and leaves of edible weeds. Factors such as the difficulty access to forests which no longer belong to them, drought and soil deterioration from overgrazing were indicated by people acting negatively on the preservation of the knowledge of plants in the younger generations. /// Las comunidades Mapuches de la Argentina y Chile poseen un vasto conocimiento sobre las plantas tiles de los bosques templados de la Patagonia. Sin embargo, los procesos actuales de transculturizacin y desarraigo parecen haber propiciado el abandono de la recoleccin de plantas silvestres. Este es un estudio de caso de una comunidad Mapuche que vive actualmente alejada de los bosques que utilizaban sus antepasados. Se realizaron entrevistas semiestructuradas a 19 familias de la comunidad Mapuche Rams (83% de la poblacin) con el objetivo de saber cules especies silvestres comestibles conocen, cules son todava utilizadas, y qu factores segn, la propia visin de los pobladores, genera su abandono. Las familias entrevistadas citaron 49 plantas silvestres comestibles que incluyen cuatro tipo de recursos: las semillas de Araucaria araucana, los frutos y races de arbustos y hierbas, y las hojas de malezas comestibles. La dificultad para acceder a los bosques, que ya no son de su propiedad, la sequa, el deterioro de sus tierras por sobrepastoreo, fueron identificados por la gente como factores que afectan negativamente la conservacin del conocimiento de plantas en las generaciones ms jvenes. 
4255772| Indigenous trees fulfil many subsistence and economic needs in north-central Namibia. Hyphaene petersiana provides a range of products which contribute to most aspects of people's livelihoods. Of particular importance is its income-generating capacity through the use of palm leaves for basket production and the sale of liquor distilled from the fruits. This study investigates the population structure of Hyphaene petersiana in two areas of different human and livestock densities. Data were recorded for height class distribution, basal diameter of mature, stemmed individuals and sex ratios. These parameters of population structure indicate a reduction in the recruitment of mature palms and an increase in single-stemmed, vegetatively reproduced palm suckers of the smallest size class (<0.5 m). This trend is more pronounced in the site with greater human and livestock population densities. It appears to be related to high recorded levels of browsing by livestock of juvenile, unstemmed palms, despite the unpalatability of palm leaves. This acts to prevent recruitment into larger size classes and increase the compensatory growth of palm suckers, the latter being enhanced due to reduced competition through the prior removal by grazing animals of grasses and other herbaceous species. Accompanying this heavy pressure on juvenile palms are destructive uses of mature, stemmed palms, including their felling for construction purposes and tapping for palm wine. With regional human population increase, exacerbated by a recent trend to privatise land and raise pressure on remaining communal resources, it is possible that these destructive uses of mature palms will increase to unsustainable levels. Concern is thus expressed in this study regarding the long-term viability of Hyphaene petersiana populations in this area. / As rvores indigenas satisfazem muitas das necessidades de subsistncia das populaoes de Owambo. A Hyphaene petersiana fornece uma gama de productos que contribuem em muitos aspectos para o sustento das gentes daquela regiao. Cita-se em particular o seu papel na criao de rendimento atravs do uso das folhas da palmeira na confeco de cestos e da utilizao dos frutos no fabrico de 'olambika' (aguardente), produtos que sao depois vendidos. Estas duas actividades sao desempenhadas quase exclusivamente por mulheres. Neste estudo manifesta-se preocupao em relao s modificaoes operadas na populao de H. petersiana desta regiao. A renovaao das palmeiras  reduzida pelo pastar intensivo de rebanhos que comem os rebentos de palmeira. A isto se junta um aumento na utilizao destrutiva das palmeiras maduras e de outras espcies de rvores. A exacerbar este processo cita-se a tendncia recente para a privatizao de terras anteriormente exploradas colectivamente. Isto deu origem a um aumento na explorao das restantes terra comunais que est a causar o colapso dos direitos tradicionais ao usufruto dos recursos vegetais. / Omiti dhomoshitopolwa ohadhi gwanitha po oompumbwe odhidji dhopamahupilo gaakalimo yomOwambo. Omuti gwendhina Hyphaene petersiana (omulunga) ohagu eta po iilikolomwa oyindji mbyoka hayi kwathele moompumbwe odhindji dhomonkalamwenyo yaantu. Omuti nguka agwa simana unene sho gahu etapo po eliko tali zi melongitho lyoombale mokutunga oontungwa, iimbamba, omashungu nuuyanambale, nokelanditho lyolambika ndjoka hayi zi moondunga. Iilikolomwa ayihe ya tumbulwa pombanda ohayi etwa po konyala kaakiintu ashike. Moshinyolwa shika omunyoli ota holola uumbanda tau etwa po komalunduluko ogendji tagi inyenge moshitopolwa ga guma omuti nguka H. petersiana (omulunga). Oludhi nduka otalu shonopala unene sho iiyale hayi liwa po kiimuna manga yi li iishona. Omiti ndhika, osho wo dhilwe ndhoka hadhi longithwa momauhupilo otadhi shonopala neendelelo oshoka odha tamekwa okulongithwa komikalo dhilwe dhi ili, she etwa po keshonopalo lyomaludhi gomiti dhilwe. Omukalo omupe moshitopolwa gwokuninga evi lyaayehe lyopaumwene otagu endeleleke eshonopalo lyomiti ndhika. Iitopolwa yaayehe oya shonopalekwa nevi lyaayehe otali longithwa sha pitilila tashi fala sigo okengushukuluko lyevi. [OSHIWAMBO] 
4254458|Field work in Paraguay, Peru, Colombia and Mexico, including field organoleptic tests and interviews, was carried out in search of sweet-tasting Stevia species. Results of such tests performed on at least 31 species, as well as ethnobotanical data on 9 species, are presented. The data obtained showed that leaves of no other Stevia species studied possessed a potent sweet taste comparable to that of S. rebaudiana leaves. Since only 15% of the approximately 200 known species in this genus were investigated in this study, it is quite possible that further research may reveal additional sweet-tasting Stevia species.
4256427|Dypsis fibrosa is widespread in eastern Madagascar and local people regard it as one of the most important palms due to its use as thatch. In an interview survey 12 different uses of this palm were reported. Most informants knew only one or two uses, but variance was large. How many uses people know and what they use different palm parts for is correlated to socioeconomic factors such as personal wealth and home village. Comparison of data obtained from interviews and observations showed that there is not always a strict correlation between ethnobotanical data elicited in surveys, actual extent of use, and importance accorded to different plant resources. Informants were generally aware of an human-caused decline in D. fibrosa abundance, but viewed it as inevitable and suggested to replace D. fibrosa products by other materials. Although local people view D. fibrosa as very important, motivation for its conservation and sustainable use seems to be low.
4255282|Wild relatives of our present crop plants, although agronomically undesirable, may have acquired many desirable stress-resistant characteristics as a result of their long exposure to nature's stresses. Early U.S. collection activities for wild forms of Beta were conducted by George H. Coons (USDA-ARS) in 1925 and 1935. These collections were mainly wild forms of the section Beta, with major emphasis on leaf spot (Cercospora beticola) resistance. Little was done with this collection until 1976, when John McFarlane (USDA-ARS) transferred it to Salinas, California, to regenerate seed for preservation. Unfortunately, about half of the collection had lost germinability. Immunity to Rhizomania, a devastating root disease discovered in California in 1983, was discovered in several accessions of the Coons' collection by E. D. Whitney. Interestingly, these same accessions subsequently have been found to exhibit Erwinia root rot resistance, sugar beet root maggot tolerance, and moderate leaf spot resistance. The value of wild germplasm is not always apparent immediately. Needs change and the value of wild germplasm may not be realized for years. /// Wilde Verwandte unserer gegenwaertigen Kulturpflanzen, obwohl landwirtschaftlich unerwuenscht, moegen viele erwuenschte Stress-widerstandsfaehige Eigenschaften angenommen haben, als eine Folge ihres langen Ausgesetztseins gegen die Stresse der Natur. Fruehe U.S. Sammulungen von wilden Beta Formen wurden von George H. Coons (USDA-ARS) in 1925 und 1935 durchgefuehrt. Diese Sammlungen waren hauptsaechlich wilde Formen der Abteilung Beta mit Hauptbetonung auf Blattfleck Widerstandsfaehigkeit (Cercospora beticola). Wenig wurde mit dieser Summlung bis 1976 getan, wo John McFarlane (USDA-ARS) sie nach Salinas, CA ueberwies, um Saatgut fuer die Erhaltung zu erneuern. Leider hatte die Haelfte der Sammlung ihre Keimfaehigkeit verloren. Unempfaenglichkeit gegen Rhizomania, eine verheerende Wurzelkrankheit, 1983 in Californien entdeckt, wurde in mehreren Anschaffungen der Coons' Sammulung von E. D. Whitney entdeckt. Interessanterweise zeigten sich anschliessend in diesen gleichen Anschaffungen Erwinia Wurzelfauele Widerstandsfaehigkeit, Zuckerrueben Wurzen Made Toleranz und gemaessigte Blattfleckenkrankheit Widerstandsfaehigkeit. Der Wert der wilden Zellenplasma ist nicht immer sofort sichtbar. Beduerfnisse aendern sich, un der Wert der wilden Zellenplasma mag fuer Jahre noch nicht erkannt sein.
4255403| Of prickly-pear cacti occurring in Sicily, the most widespread and economically important is Opuntia ficus-indica (L.) Miller. In Sicily it has, since its introduction, played an important role in the exploitation of marginal areas. The Sicilian experience is described with reference to the historical outlines and the present intensive production of late fruit. Information on historical and actual uses of the plant and its products (flowers, cladodes, fruits) is given. /// Entre los nopales que se pueden encontrar en Sicilia la mas difundida es la Opuntia ficus-indica (L.) Miller. Esta especie desde hace su introduccon ha sido la mas disfrutada en las explotaciones de las zonas marginales. En este trabajo los Autores refiren sobre la historia y sobre la actual situacion productiva, finalisada a la production de higos de retallo. Se refire tambien sobre su uso y sus productos (flores, cladodios, frutos). 
4255254| Attalea colenda, a palm tree native to the coastal plain of western Ecuador, produces from one to four infructescences per tree every year, each with an average of 5065 fruits. The oil content of the seeds is 56.9% dry weight. Kernel oil production per infructescence is 7-16 kg. A hectare with 50 trees can produce between 0.35 and 3.2 tons of oil per year. The kernel oil is chemically similar to coconut oil and and kernel oil from the African oil palm. The increasing demand for lauric oil on the world market makes A. colenda a potential oil source. /// Attalea colenda es una palmera nativa de la costa Ecuatoriana. Cada planta produce de dos a cuatro infrutescencias anualmente con 5065 frutos por infrutescencia. El contenido de aceite de las semillas alcanza el 56.9% de su peso seco. La produccin de aceite es de 7 a 16 kilogramos por infrutescencia. Una hectrea con 50 rboles puede producir 0.35 a 3.2 toneladas de aceite por ao. El aceite de las semillas es similar al aceite de Cocos nucifera y de Elaeis guineensis. Debido a le demanda existente en el mercado mundial de aceites con cidos laricos Attalea colenda constituye un buen recurso potencial. 
4251949|Pineapples, native to tropical America, have been most extensively produced in Hawaii which accounted for 85% of the 12 1/4 million cases of canned pineapple produced in 1947 by all countries of the world.
4255035|Medicinal plants identified by Miskito informants in Awastara, Nicaragua, were collected in the field. They are listed and botanically identified in this paper. Particularly interesting among the collection of 23 plant species are those used to cure snakebite and athlete's foot, as observed in the field.
4257018|Despite the fact that Manus Province is the most geographically isolated province of Papua New Guinea, research shows that the acculturation process, common among minority indigenous groups around the globe, has had detrimental effects on maintaining knowledge and customs. Analysis of ethnobotanical knowledge among the indigenous population of Manus was undertaken in an attempt to compare, contrast, and draw conclusions regarding factors in maintaining indigenous knowledge of the local flora. Four levels of knowledge (plants recognized, identified, identified as useful, and identified as medicinally useful) were used to examine the relationships between knowledge of the local flora and physical, geographical, and social variables of informants. Results showed significant differences in ethnobotanical knowledge based on informant gender, age, cultural subclass, and habitation locality. Low levels of medicinal plant knowledge were found among the Manus due to acculturation, supporting the theory that medicinal plant knowledge is particularly vulnerable to loss.
4254154|A plant used by the southwestern Alaskan Eskimos for treatment of skin infections, chest colds and arthritis was identified as Artemisia tilesii Ledeb. (Compositae). The volatile constituents of this plant were identified as an 80:20 mixture of thujone and isothujone. Isothujone has codeine-like properties, which may help arthritic pain.
4254425|This report summarizes qualitative information on 5 potential Florida fuelwood species: slash pine, sand pine, melaleuca, eucalypt, and casuarina. The important factors affecting the quality of fuelwood for industrial applications are briefly discussed. Fundamental properties relating to the fuel quality of these 5 potential fuelwoods are synthesized from several published and unpublished reports. Based on the qualitative data shown in this report, it appears that the fuel characteristics of these 5 species are comparable or superior to those of many other woods evaluated in the literature.
4253433|In 1969 senna seymeria [Seymeria cassioides (J. F. Gmel.) Blake], an annual of the figwort family (Scrophulariaceae), was found to be parasitic on roots of slash pine (Pinus elliottii Engelm.). Subsequent tests showed that the plant is an obligate parasite on at least three species of southern pines and is apparently selective for pines only. A southwide survey indicated that senna seymeria is most common on moist, sandy sites of the Lower Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plains.
4254538|Breeding of oilseeds focuses on 3 prime objectives: 1) Selection and breeding needed for the introduction of an established oilseed crop to a new area; 2) oil quantity and quality; and 3) meal quantity and quality. One obvious way of increasing the quantity of both oil and meal is to increase yielding ability of cultivars. Oil content has been increased by reducing the thickness of the ovary wall, where the latter is part of the harvest, and/or the seed coat. Usually, increases in oil content achieved in this way are accompanied by an increase in protein content. Oil quality is measured primarily by fatty acid composition, the ideal fatty acid composition depending on the use of the oil. In rapeseed and mustard species the quality of the oil for edible use has been greatly improved by removing the erucic and eicosenoic acids. In safflower 2 types of oil are available commercially, one with high levels (75-80%) of linoleic acid and another with high levels (75-80%) of oleic acid, the 2 types having different uses. An added component of oil quality is stability of fatty acid composition over a range of environments. Oilseed meals have been improved by increasing protein content, by changing the amino acid profile of the protein, and by reducing levels of toxic compounds.
4256989|There is a range of forest management systems between pure extraction and plantation systems. Such "intermediate systems" range from wild forests modified for increased production of selected products to anthropogenic forests with a high-density of valuable species growing within a relatively diverse and complex structure. These systems, classed here as "Forest Garden Systems" (FGS), have important socioeconomic and ecological benefits, and yet they have been largely overlooked by researchers, development practitioners, and policy makers. Based on case examples and the authors' experience, this paper analyzes the socioeconomic and institutional factors that explain the development, persistence, and decline of FGS. These systems combine productivity and biodiversity values and are important components in the diverse economic systems of their managers. As such, the model warrants increased attention to protect existing values, to support the adaptation of existing systems to changing circumstances, and to inform the development of new models of integrated forest management.
4255286| Resin tappers in Sumatra induce resin flow in Shorea javanica by first opening vertical rows of small (3 cm) holes in the tree trunk. After 6-12 mo, larger (10-15 cm) holes are opened between the rows of small holes for resin harvest. Informants reported that opium applied to trees increased resin yields. Application of 10% 2-chloroethylphosphonic acid to artificial trunk wounds of S. javanica production trees increased resin yields by 110% relative to controls in 72-h trials. Wounds of previously untapped trees exuded no resin in response to the same treatment. /// Les prleveurs de rsine de Sumatra provoquent l'coulement de la rsine du Shorea javanica en pratiquant, d'abord, des ranges verticales de petits trous (3 cm) dans le tronc de l'arbre. Aprs 6  12 mois, des trous plus grands (10-15 cm) sont pratiqus, entre les ranges de petits trous, pour la rcolte de la rsine. Les informateurs ont not que l'application d'opium aux arbres augmentait les rendements en rsine. L'application d'acide 2-chlorothylphosophonique  10% aux plaies artificielles aux tronc d'arbres S. javanica de production augmentait les rendements en rsine de 110% par rapport aux tmoins dans les essais de 72 heures. Les plaies d'arbres non antrieurement saigns n'ont pas exsud de rsine en rponse au mme traitement. 
4254530|Coccinia grandis (Cucurbitaceae), scarlet gourd, is widely distributed throughout the tropics and can be found in both wild and cultivated states on the plains of India. Although the sweet type is extensively cultivated for its edible fruits, C. grandis may have some potential value as a remedy for diabetes. A brief account of the botanical aspects and the food and the potential medicinal value of the different promising cultivars is provided.
4251885|The sweetpotato surpasses the white potato in its content of fat, carbohydrates, fiber, sugar, starch, calories and the vitamins carotene, riboflavin and pantothenic acid. In 1944, of more than a billion bushels produced throughout the world, over 600 million were raised in China, over 68 million in the United States.
4256729| Bursera glabrifolia, a dominant component of the tropical dry forests in southwestern Mexico, is used to illustrate the importance of a broader contextual framework for ethnobotanical studies. The species is currently used as a carving wood to produce small, painted figurines known as alebrijes. Over the past hundred years, however, B. glabrifolia also has been exploited commercially for resin and essential oil, and over-harvesting has pushed the species to the brink of local extinction several times. The destruction of tropical dry forests threatens the ability of the species to recover from the current wave of exploitation. Eight years of study have highlighted two major aspects of the life and times of B. glabrifolia. First, the ethnobotany of the species is extremely complex and, in addition to local artisans and collectors, involves pre-Columbian tributes, resource substitution, NAFTA duty exemptions, and the spread of cattle pastures. Second, a concerted effort to manage the species in its natural habitat would bolster the thriving alebrije market and provide a much-needed incentive for conserving tropical dry forests in Mexico. /// Bursera glabrifolia, un componente dominante de los bosques secos tropicales del sureste de Mxico, se utiliza aqu para ilustrar la impotancia de adoptar un marco conceptual amplio en los estudios etnobotnicos. La madera de esta especie se usa actualmente en la zona de Valles Centrales de Oaxaca para elaborar figuras talladas conocidas como alebrijes. Sin embargo, durante los ltimos cien aos, B. glabrifolia ha sido tambin explotada por su resina y su aceite essecial, y la sobrexplotacin la ha colocado cerca de la extinctin local. La destruccin de los bosques secos tropicales pone en riesgo la capacidad de la especie para recuperarse al ritmo actual de explotacin. Ocho aos de investigacin interdisciplinaria nos han permitado reconocer dos aspectos importantes de la historia de B. glabrifolia. Primero, que la etnobotnica de la especie es extremadamente compleja, ya que adems del uso actual por artesanos e colectores locales, involucra tributos prehispnicos, sustitucin de especies, exencin de impuestos en el marco del TLC y la expansion de la ganadera. Y Segundo, que un esfuerzo concertado por manejar esta especie en su hbitat natural, le dara un impulse al mercado de los alebrijes y significara un incentivo, muy necesario, para la conservacin de los bosques tropicales secos en Mxico. 
4252022|Bacteria and other fungi are industrially cultivated in a variety of ways for the commercial production of some 25 enzymes utilized in many industries ranging from the conversion of starch to fermentable sugars, through chill-proofing of beer to bating of hides.
4252046|Canaigre has been in use on a limited scale as a source of tannin for about 100 years. It is easily grown, requires no special attention, and may be the answer to shortages in natural tannin supplies.
4251900| Despite extensive war-time investigations of other rubber-containing latex plants, the Par rubber tree of Brazil remains, by any measure, the world's foremost source, and only guayule and the Russian dandelion display any possibility of becoming secondary sources of commercial importance. 
4255805|South Korean food markets were examined for the presence of wild-gathered food plants between 1989 and 1995. One hundred twelve species belonging to 83 genera and 40 families were found. Plants used as leafy vegetables were the most common (73.2%), followed by fruits (22.3%), root vegetables (6.2%) and flower foods (4.4%). Nearly half of these plant species belonged to three families: Asteraceae (29) Liliaceae (10) and Apiaceae (7). As of 1992, 19 of these wild foods were also being grown as new crops, a development that involved more than 25 000 farm households. At least eleven of these wild food plants were exported to the United States in 1994, where they are sold by Korean food markets. / [Abstract in Chinese]
4256365|Farmers in Jordan and Syria refer to two weeds in wheat fields as zawan in Arabic. These are Cephalaria syriaca (L.) Schrad. (Dipsacaceae) and Lolium temulentum L. (Poaceae). The Greek word zizanion in the parable in Matthew 13 is translated variously as tares, darnel, and weed. According to the biblical text, tares must have a life cycle like wheat and easily contaminate wheat seed. To better understand which plant is zawan, field and threshing sites in Jordan and Syria were surveyed. Four grain fields and four threshing sites had Cephalaria, one field and one threshing site had Lolium. Early botanical explorers noted C. syriaca as a weed in wheat in Syria. There are few records of C. syriaca as contaminants of grain caches at archeological sites while L. temulentum is common. / [Abstract in Arabica]
4251844|Many theoretical chemists now discount much chemical and botanical work in cell wall research before 1920 and all current work which indicates the presence and importance of non-cellulosic materials in determining cell-wall properties.
4256865| The results of this study confirm the presence of both guanabana and cherimoya in ancient Peru. Our evidence consists of linguistic data and botanical remains of plants that were found in archaeological contexts, as well as ceramic phytomorphic representations of the fruits. /// Con el presente trabajo se demuestra, que tanto la guanbana como la chirimoya han sido conocidas y utilizadas en el antiguo Per. Las evidencias consisten en datos linguistcos y restos botnicos de dichas plantas que han sido encontrados en contextos arqueolgicos y representaciones en cermica de sus frutos. 
4252106|Barley, probably the oldest cultivated cereal, is widely grown in cooler areas of the world. The annual world production of nearly two and a half billion bushels exceeds that of rye but is less than that of rice, wheat, corn and oats, respectively. Most of the annual 300 million dollar crop of the U.S. is fed to livestock, but about one-third is manufactured into malt.
4255692| Over the last twenty-five years, crop genetic resources (CGR) have been preserved in genebanks around the world for use by formal plant breeders. Recently conservation of folk crop varieties for direct use by the farmer-breeders of traditional agricultural communities has been suggested as another purpose for CGR conservation. While both in and ex situ CGR conservation programs have been proposed to meet the needs of formal plant breeders and farming communities, the needs and goals of the two groups are different. Formal breeders seek maximum allelic diversity while farmer-breeders are interested in both diversity and population structure that provide local adaptation. Based on the morphological and phenological data analyzed for this study of two Hopi maize varieties conserved in and ex situ, it appears that both genetic shift and genetic drift have occurred ex situ, and that populations conserved ex situ are different from those maintained in situ. These findings suggest that CGR conservation strategies must be re-evaluated in light of the specific conservation goals that are sought. / Durante los pasados veinticinco aos, los recursos geneticos agricolas (RGA) han sido preservados en bancos de germoplasma alrededor del mundo para su uso por fitomejadores formales. Recientamente, la conservacion de variedades crillolas para su uso directo por agricultores-fitomejsdores de las comunidades agricolas tradicionales se ha sugerido como otro de los propositos para la conservacion de recursos geneticos. Mientras que los programas de conservacion de RGA in situ y ex situ han sido propuestos para satisfacer las necesidades de fitomejoradores formales y cominidades agricolas, las necesidades y objetivos de los dos grupos son diferentes. Los fitomejoradores formales buscan la maxima diversidad genetica, mientras que los agricultores-fitomejoradores estan interesados en diversidad y estructura poblacionalque permita mayor adaptacion local. En bas a datos morfologicos y fenologicos analizados en este estudio de dos variedades de maiz Hopi conservadas in situ y ex situ, al parecer, la conservacion ex situ ha producido seleccion natural (genetic shift) y perdida aleatoria de diversidad (genetic drift), asimismo, parece que la poblaciones conservadas ex situ difieren de las conservadas in situ. Estos resultados sugieren que las estrategias para las conservacion de RGA deben ser reevaluadas conforme a los propositos especificos de conservacion. 
4287855|The sponge gourd has a long history of cultivation in most tropical countries of the world. Its principal uses are based on the closed fiber network that forms a resilient mesh in the walls and core of the fruit, similar in structure to that of a sponge. As oil and water filters in marine engines it was an important item in wartime supplies of the navy. Its early service as food and medicine is almost negligible in contrast to the many more recently found civilian uses ranging from bath sponges to shock absorbers and soundproof linings.
40390471|Cistaceous scrublands dominated by Cistus ladanifer and Halimium lasianthum are widely distributed in northwestern Spain and are known to harbor the popular edible mushrooms Boletus edulis and B. aereus. As commercial harvest of these species is an important activity in Spain's forests, in some cases generating greater revenue than timber production, we tried to determine whether there is commercial potential for bolete harvest in young cistaceous scrublands. Transects of 50 m  2 m were randomly established in cistaceous scrublands and bolete yield was measured. High production of these valuable mushrooms was associated with 3-year-old plants, a much earlier onset than observed for Pinus and Quercus stands. Management recommendations for the studied scrub ecosystems are proposed that take into account the economic value of the mushrooms. /// Grandes masas de Cistaceas dominadas por Cistus ladanifer and Halimium lasianthum estn ampliamente distibuidas por el Noroeste de la peninsula ibrica y es posible encontrar hongos apreciados corno Boletus edulis y B. aereus. Nosotros intentamos determinar el potencial comercial del aprovechamiento de estas especies en matorrales jvenes ya que en muchas zonas puede suponer una actividad econmica que supere los beneficios procedentes de la madera. La production de Boletus se recogi en parcelas de 250 mtros. Se pudo observar una alta produccin de estas especies asociada a plantas de 3 aos, una edad mucho ms temprana que la necesaria en masas de Pinus o Quercus. Finalmente, se proponen alternativas de gestin para estas particulares zonas teniendo en cuenta el valor econmico de los hongos.
4254317|The "natives" at Rio Indio, on the central Caribbean slope of Panama, trap the river fish Brycon chagrensis using leaves of Piper auritum as bait in feeders. The people use this technique because the fish tastes like the leaf after it has fed regularly on the leaf. This technique has potential use in aquaculture. The plant could also be cultivated for marketing as a food-flavoring condiment and fish food.
4254402|Before the rapid development of the petrochemical industry, many feedstocks for manufacturing paints, plastics, fibers, lubricants, adhesives, and a host of other products were derived from agriculture. Good examples are linseed, castor, tung, tall, and soybean oils; natural rubber, gums, starch and cellulose, and many sources of fiber from the plant kingdom, as well as hides, bones, and fats and oils from the animal kingdom. In addition to these traditional agricultural materials, several new plant sources have been developed through new crops research. Also, new ways have been developed for converting existing agricultural products to better chemical intermediates. Availability of farm land, economics of crop production, and competition with petroleum are such that agriculture should be considered seriously as a viable alternative for at least part of our chemical feedstock requirements.
41001173|Bangladesh is often recognized as a secondary center of diversity for jackfruit (Artocarpus heterophyllus Lam.) and is expected to harbor important genetic diversity of this underutilized tree crop. Unfortunately, genetic erosion is occurring before this rich local resource has been documented and utilized for potential crop improvement. The aim of this study was to carry out a village-based survey and make morphological measurements to document and assess jackfruit diversity across trees associated with a gradient of three locations/habitats (homesteads, public lands, and forest or fallow lands). We also tested the hypotheses that cultivated jackfruit found in homesteads exhibited positive selection pressure for characteristics desirable in the market, and that the tree location reflected its history of origin and human selection. This was accomplished using 28 standardized morphological descriptors and represents the first large-scale assessment (900 trees) of jackfruit diversity in multiple locations (nine villages). Among the descriptors studied, those most closely associated with jackfruit marketability showed a trend for selection among the trees located in homesteads. Both fruits and leaves were larger in plants on homesteads compared to plants in forest/fallow lands, and fruit quality was significantly higher in homestead trees compared to the other two location categories. However, 18.7% and 23.7% of the fruits found on public lands and forest/fallow lands, respectively, were still considered to be of excellent fruit quality and tree vigor was significantly higher in jackfruit in forest/fallow lands compared to the other location categories. The combination of high tree vigor and presence of excellent fruit quality among jackfruit in forest/fallow lands suggests that the "wild" Bangladeshi jackfruit germplasm, which is considered inferior for market and is being negatively impacted, has valuable genetic diversity to contribute to jackfruit cultivation. Furthermore, sampling across a gradient of habitats may enable the detection of possible trends resulting from domestication pressures.                                               ''.   ''                                         ( ),   ( )                                                                                                                                                                             
4254244| Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed protein extracts from 1,603 accessions obtained from 15 Asian countries or regions (not including Japan) were analyzed for the presence of alleles of 2 proteins. Three alleles of the Kunitz trypsin inhibitor or
4256833| Gouania polygama (Jacq.) Urban, Smilax domingensis Willd., and Pimenta dioica Merr., are three species widely used within Cuban ethnobotanical traditions and practices. Pru is a traditional refreshment and medicinal drink produced by their decoction and fermentation with sugar. It is claimed to have hypotensive, stomachic, depurative, and diuretic properties. Pru has long been confined to a number of traditional villages in eastern Cuba, and its origin may be traced back to the ethnobotanical knowledge of French-Haitian people that migrated to Cuba from the end of the 1700s. With the economic crisis of the early 1990s that resulted in the disappearance of industrial soft drinks and in the search for new income sources, pru spread across almost the entire island. This has resulted in the commoditization of the drink and related traditional knowledge, and possibly in increasing pressure on the species' wild populations. /// Gouania polygama (Jacq.) Urban, Smilax domingensis Willd. y Pimenta dioica Merr., son tres de las especies ms utilizadas en la cultura etnobotnica de Cuba y de ellas se elabora el pru. El pru es una bebida tradicional, refrescante y medicinal con propiedades hipotensivas, estomaquicas, depurativas y diureticas, que se obtiene del cocimiento y la fermentacin con azcar de estas tres plantas. El pru ha sido por mucho tiempo una estricta tradicin familiar del oriente cubano. Su origen est posiblemente en la sabidura y en las tradiciones de los Francos-Haitianos que migraron a Cuba a partir del final del 1700. Durante la crisis economica de los aos 90, debido a la falta de bebidas industriales y a la bsqueda de fuentes de ingreso alternativas por la poblacin cubana, el pru se ha difundido casi en toda Cuba. Esta difusin comporta una modificacin de los conocimientos tradicionales sobre la bebida y las plantas y posiblemente una presin sobre las poblaciones silvestres de las especies utilizadas. 
4256641| The Sierra Norte de Puebla, Mexico, is a region with biological and cultural diversity, where the use of local natural resources was increased by the relative isolation of the region until recent decades. There are more than 600 useful plants reported. In the Sierra Norte de Puebla at least six Begonia species are used as food. The objective of this paper is to report such species that are utilized for self-supply and for sale in local markets. The management includes gathering among wild populations, transplanting of rhizomes and vegetative propagation by leaves to establish and increase populations in home gardens and in coffee plantations. /// La Sierra Norte de Puebla es un espacio geogrfico diverso desde el punto de vista biolgico y cultural, donde el aprovechamiento de los recursos naturales es muy amplio. Se han reportado mas de 600 especies de plantas usadas por los grupos humanos que la habitan. Entre las plantas tiles, las comestibles son unas de las ms importantes en cuanto a nmero de especies. En la Sierra Norte de Puebla son utilizadas como alimento al menos seis especies de Begonia y el objetivo del presente trabajo es reportar estas especies, cuyos pecolos son utilizados como alimento, con aprovechamiento para auto abasto y para venta en el mercado, con un manejo que incluye recolecta en poblaciones silvestres, trasplante de rizomas y propagacin vegetativa por plantacin de hojas para establecimiento e incremento de las poblaciones en cafetales y huertos familiares. 
4256321| We evaluated the impact of two leaf harvesting methods on the clonal understory palm Geonoma deversa. In the first method only the leaves are cut, in the second the complete crown is severed. Stands representative for each method are compared with unharvested stands. Both methods of harvesting reduce clone size and reproductive output (inflorescence and infructescence per clone), and lower the number of ramets available for the next harvest. Cutting only the leaves represents a better method of harvest because of a lower impact on the residual stock. Economic analysis reveals that the value of this resource (standing leaf value) is low (2 to 26 U.S. $/ha) compared with labor costs that can be between 55 to 86% of palm thatch revenues. Harvesting Geonoma leaves generates a net present value (NPV) that ranges from 3 to 191 U.S. $/ha depending on the stand location, the wage, and the interest rate employed for the calculation. /// Se evalu el impacto de dos metodos para cosechar hojas de Geonoma deversa. El primer mtodo consiste en la corta de las hojas mientras que en el segundo, se corta la copa antes de la remocin de las hojas. Se compara rodales representativos de cada metodo de corta con rodales no cosechados. Los resultados muestran que la cosecha reduce el tamao de los clones, la produccin de inflorecencias e infructecencias pero afecta sobre todo las ramas aptas para la cosecha. El mtodo de cortar slo las hojas es ms ventajoso porque afecta menos las ramas cosechables por clon. La evaluacin econmica muestra que el valor del recurso en el bosque (valor de hoja en pie) es relativamente bajo (2 a 26 U.S.$/ha), comparado con el costo de la mano de obra necesaria para esta actividad. La mano de obra representa entre 55 y 86 por ciento de los ingresos brutos por la venta de paos tejidos. La cosecha de hojas genera un valor presente neto (VPN) que varia entre 3 y 191 U.S. $/ha, lo cual depende de la localizacin del rodal, el valor del jornal y la tasa de inters empleada. 
4254646|Arrowroot biomass and processing residues were evaluated as as a feed, fuel and fiber resource. Ensiled aerial biomass and coarse and fine arrowroot processing residues contained 10.8-21.1% crude protein; 11.1-30.2% crude fiber; 3.8-17.0% ash; and an in vitro dry matter digestibility of 38.5-60.3%. Theoretical yields of 0.27 and 1.60 l of methane at standard temperature and pressure per liter of rhizome wash water and starch-settling water were calculated, respectively. Fuel alcohol production potential from yeast-supplemented aerial biomass and coarse residue were identified. Laboratory pulping of coarse residue was performed. The coarse residue has qualities that may be suited to tear-resistant specialty grade papers, such as wrapping paper and bags. The utilization of arrowroot by-products may lead to increased cultivation of this species as a food, feed, fuel and fiber resource. By-product utilization will also reduce environmental pollution presently resulting from direct discharge of unused by-products.
4254408|Plants constitute a vast cornucopia of chemical substances used for defense from attack by insects. These may be classified as insect attractants, repellents, toxicants, inhibitors of growth and development, sterilants, and feeding deterrents. An overview of the subject and its interrelationships with man is presented.
4254615|Seasonal growth characteristics and biomass yield potential of 3 floating aquatic macrophytes cultured in nutrient nonlimiting conditions were evaluated in central Florida's climatic conditions. Growth cycle (growth curve) of the plants was found to be complete when maximum plant density was reached and no additional increase in growth was recorded. Biomass yield per unit area and time was found to be maximum in the linear phase of the growth curve; plant density in this phase was defined as "operational plant density," a density range in which a biomass production system is operated to obtain the highest possible yields. Biomass yields were found to be 106, 72, and 41 t (dry wt)
4287926|If and when economic conditions and technological advances become favorable, fungi may some day be significant in furnishing human food through their protein-synthesizing capacity. The yeast, Torulopsis, has already been utilized on a commercial scale in this direction in Germany, Jamaica, South Africa, India, California and Wisconsin.
4256738|Tagetes minuta L., syn. T. glandulifera Schrank grows wild in western Himalaya and is one of the important source of essential oils. The crop has been domesticated by our Institute not only in sub-temperate but also in subtropical zones and farmers have opted Tagetes minuta as an essential oil crop in their cropping system. Four cropping systems have been evolved based on variable sowing and harvesting times yielding varying quality of essential oil. All the four crop practices can be practised in sub-temperate regions while one crop practice is recommended for subtropical regions. Tagetes oil contains three major constituents of monoterpene ketones namely ocimenones E&Z, tagetones E&Z and dihydrotagetone and a hydrocarbon ocimene which are important base materials for synthesizing new aroma molecules. Tagetes oil of desired constituents can be produced by adopting selective crop practice based on experimental findings of present investigation. Ocimene rich crop can be harvested in winter (December-January), dihydrotagetone rich crop in autumn (October-November), tagetone rich crop in summer (June) and ocimenone rich crop can be harvested in short duration autumn-winter (December-January) and summer crops.
4256603|Acclimatization trials of the two tropical species Solanum sessiliflorum (cocona) and Solanum stramonifolium (coconilla) from Amazonas Venezuela, were carried out at the Botanical Garden of Padua. S. sessiliflorum exhibited a greater difference between the Botanical Garden and the native environment. Plant growth was reduced and pollination was difficult; despite numerous blooms few fruits were produced. Moreover, some fruit abscised early and the persistent ones were still unripe at the end of the season. On the contrary, S. stramonifolium showed good adaptation to the new environmental conditions. The plants grew well and produced a lot of ripe berries. Self-pollination as well as cross-pollination by bumblebees (Bombus terrestris) and other insects present in the open air succeeded. Thus, this latter species could be regarded as potentially exploitable in temperate climates as well as in Venezuela.
40390476|Seven species of California porcini (Boletus, sect. Boletus) are recognized, including three new taxa that are culturally and economically significant: B. rex-veris sp. nov., B. regineus sp. nov., and B. edulis var. grandedulis var. nov. The three new taxa have been intensively gathered during the last century by Italian immigrants, and B. rex-veris sp. nov. more recently by southeast Asian immigrante as well as by long-time rural residents. B. rex-veris sp. nov. is restricted to inland mountains while the other two are widely distributed, and are abundant in California's heavily populated coastal zone. In the 1990s, reflecting the preservationist policies of mainstream environmental organizations, many park authorities and land management agencies in coastal California closed public lands to mushroom gathering. Organized attempts to establish legal, limited gathering in a few parks were almost entirely unsuccessful. The result is that it is illegal to pick porcini on nearly all public lands over a 6,000-square-mile area, even though they grow prolifically in coastal California. Many of coastal California's porcini are picked anyway by those willing to risk being apprehended and fined. In response to the official intolerance for mushroom gathering, an entire generation of mushroom hunters has grown up practicing the activity in secret.
4255886| The motac palm (Attalea phalerata) is widespread in Bolivia and is an economically valuable species as a source of vegetable oil. In Bolivia it is utilized as construction material, food, medicine, cosmetic, and edible oil. Oil extracted from the kernel (60-70% of dry weight) is high in lauric and myristic oils and compares favorably with other tropical oil crops. The palms reach reproductive maturity in 7-10 years and potential oil production from cultivated stands is 1.1-2.4 tons/ha/yr. /// El motac, Attalea phalerata que es una especie neotropical, est ampliamente distribuda en Bolivia y tiene un importante potencial econmico como fuente para aceite vegetal. En Bolivia es aprovechada para fines de construccin, alimenticio, medicinal y cosmtico: hojas para techos y ebanistera, troncos para viviendas locales, frutos alimenticios y para la elaboracin de aceites. Cerca al 60-70% en peso seco de aceite producido corresponde a la semilla y tiene una produccin potencial de 1.1-2.4 toneladas por hectrea por ao. 
4287995|To the Indians, Malayans, or the Indonesians, betel-nut chewing is as familiar as chewing gum to the Americans. In India the use of arecanut and its cultivation constitute a distinct agricultural practice scarcely less important than that of other economic crops, but little attention has been given to a proper assessment of the fruit either in India or elsewhere.
4255712| Although common throughout Belize in lowland forests and agricultural systems, the cohune palm, Orbignya cohune is relatively little used compared with its historic importance, according to a 1992 survey discussed here. Among uses found to persist are leaves for thatch, fruits for oil, and palm heart as food. Exploitation required only simple technology and was most notable at socio-economic extremes. Areas from which cohunes were exploited rarely coincided with high-density stands of the species. Alternatives exist for all cohune products. It seems unlikely that this palm will be the basis of a large-scale industry in Belize, primarily because of the uncertainty of wild yields and the widespread availability of alternatives. / Aunque es comn en todos los bosques de las tierras bajas y los sistemas agrcolas de Belice, la palma de corozo, Orbignya cohune (Mart.) Dahlg. ex Standl. es poco usada en comparacin con su importancia histrica, de acuerdo con un estudio realizado en 1992. Entre los usos que persisten, se encontr que las hojas fueron usadas para techo, los frutos para aceite y el palmito como recurso alimenticio. La explotacin requeria una tecnologa simple y era mas notable en los extremos socio-econmicos. Las areas donde la coroza era explotada, rares veces coincidieron con las agrupaciones de alta densidad de la especie. Existen alternativas para todos los productos de la coroza. Es poco probable que esta palma sea la base para una industria a gran escala en Belice, principalmente debido a lo caprichoso de la produccin silvestre y la amplia disponibilidad de alternativas. 
4254082|The current position regarding reports in the literature on interspecific hybridization in the pulses is confused. Two major reasons can be advanced in explanation. The first is that frequently conspecific wild and cultivated forms have received different binomials and crosses between such are frequently regarded as interspecific hybrids. The second arises from mistaken interpretation of results of attempted interspecific hybridization when progeny strongly resembling the maternal parent are produced. It is suggested that these progeny might have been produced by failures in emasculation or rare accidental apomixis. All cultigens of the genera Arachis, Cajanus, Cicer, Phaseolus and Pisum are able to some extent to produce viable true interspecific hybrids as are the Asiatic forms of Vigna. True interspecific hybrids have not been produced with Vicia faba nor with Vigna unguiculata the cowpea.
4256293|Brachiaria ramosa is cultivated in pure stands. Its grains are used in preparing at least nine traditional foods in South India. Setaria glauca is cultivated in mixed stands along with little millet (Panicum sumatrense). In Orissa state and in Southern India the grains are used to make at least six traditional foods as a supplementary ingredient. The weedy forms of these were found growing with upland rice and some millets in diverse agro-ecological niches, and are identified by various vernacular names by local farmers. Explorations were conducted to gather information on the evolutionary trends, domestication and ethnobotany of these minor food crops. These findings substantiate the belief that domestication process may have passed through three distinct phases: (i) an associated mimic weed with upland rice and some millets; (ii) a secondary crop mixed with little millet or kodo millet; and (iii) as an independent crop. Also, this process has been promoted as a means of imparting adaptation to an arid climate and in turn related to the diversification of the agriculture basic complex. / [Abstract in Chinese]
4252085|Such plants have provided the natives since pre-Columbian times not only with food but also with shelter, salt, basketry, ornament, cloth, gums, unguents, poisons, medicines and other useful products.
4251906|The breeding of forest trees by means of selection and of hybridization in order to obtain increased disease resistance and improved utilitarian qualities in pulp and timber trees is still in the experimental stage, but long-range planning along these lines offers one means of balancing diminishing timber supplies.
4255112| This study was aimed at elucidating the general effects of harvesting on the growth of reed sweetgrass, Glyceria maxima (Poaceae), an emergent aquatic macrophyte potentially suitable for recovery of nutrients from wastewater. In a natural stand significantly lower amounts of young rhizomes and a lower concentration of nonstructural carbohydrates were observed after the first harvest. This indicated a reduced translocation of carbohydrates to the rhizomes and a depressed rhizome growth. The concentration of carbohydrates increased to the same level as in an unharvested plot within 7 wk. Rhizome biomass at the end of that growing season was
4251996|This woody legume, originally native to Mexico but now naturalized in Arizona, Florida and Texas, has been extensively used in Indonesia for soil erosion control and should be similarly employed in our Southern States.
4288023|The practical economy of the utilization of the xerophytic plants is dependent upon a fairly complete utilization of the extractives of the particular species involved. For example, agaves (century plants) yield fiber, sapogenins, and some miscellaneous extractives, which vary with the species.
4252233|Domestic experimental or case evidence stands behind only about half the names in current U. S. compilations of poisonous plants. A significant number of the remainder rest upon 19th century experience, mainly European sources. Several useful conclusions may be derived from an historical survey of the development of this body of knowledge.
4253577|The distribution in Turkey of filbert, pistachio, chestnut, almond and walnut is discussed in relation to their method of propagation and climatic parameters. The effect of temperature and rainfall severely limits the present production areas of filbert and pistachio, both of which are vegetatively propagated. In contrast, almonds and walnuts are mainly propagated from seed and are more widely distributed throughout the country. Their distribution is discussed in relation to the genetic diversity and the adaptability of local tree populations to varied climatic conditions. Data are presented on the range of variability of nut and kernel weight of almonds and walnuts.
4255565|The importance of spontaneous lac host-trees for preserving the fragile agroecosystem of the main lac producing areas of China, located in the tropical part of Yunnan province, is analyzed. In upland fields, the fire-resistant vegetation consists mainly of these trees. Farmers deliberately preserve young sprouts during the cultivation cycle. This benefits both soil fertility and lac production. Host-trees, mainly Dalbergia and Ficus, form a range of multipurpose trees which although limited to some ten species allows maximum use of the heterogeneities of the village territory. Finally, lac host-trees are associated with some environmental values important to farmers. This circumstance contributes to the sustainability of lac host-tree agroforestry in spite of current problems in the lac market.
4252993|The place of Didelotia idae Oldeman, de Wit & Leonard in the Gola Forest is discussed with regard to forest structure, exploitation and species distributions. At present, it is an important species in the timber economy and in some areas accounts for 50% or more of the trees cut. From examination of a small area, its distribution is shown to be gregarious and discontinuous. It is commonly found with Cryptosepalum tetraphyllum and to a lesser extent with Xylia evansii and Brachystegia leonensis, while Lophira alata and Saccoglottis gabonensis tend not to occur in association with it. The regeneration possibilities of Didelotia are discussed.
4287815|Since the early 1930's it has been known that application of certain chemicals to tapping surfaces on pine trees will stimulate the flow of oleoresin, and industrial use of a 50% sulphuric acid spray for this purpose is increasing. Now, investigations, discussed here, indicate that some stimulation may be achieved by inoculation with a fungus.
4251935|American production of peanuts was greatly stimulated at the beginning of the present century by the depredations of the weevil in the Cotton Belt. A part from their use as food, their industrial utilization is only in its infancy and includes conversion of their protein into textile fibers and other products.
4255188| The cultivated peanut (Arachis hypogaea, Fabaceae) is believed to have originated along the eastern slopes of the Andes in Bolivia and northern Argentina. The crop is now grown throughout tropical and warm temperate regions. Among diseases attacking peanuts, rust caused by Puccinia arachidis and late leaf spot caused by Phaeoisariopsis personata are the most important and destructive on a worldwide scale. Both pathogens, restricted in host range to Arachis, probably originated and coevolved in South America along with their hosts. In recent years there has been much emphasis on screening of peanut germplasm for resistance to these diseases. At the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), India, some 10,000 peanut germplasm accessions were screened for resistance to rust and late leaf spot during 1977-1985 and sources of resistance indentified for either or both pathogens. Of the resistant genotypes, about 87% belonged to A. hypogaea var. fastigiata and 13% to var. hypogaea; 84% originated in South America or had South American connections. A high percentage (75%) had their origin in Peru (believed to be a secondary gene center for var. hirsuta and var. fastigiata), suggesting that resistance to rust and late leaf spot diseases might have evolved in that country. /// L'arachide cultive (Arachis hypogaea, Fabaceae) serait originaire du versant oriental des Andes, en Bolivie et en Argentine du Nord. Cette culture est maintenant pratique dans toutes les rgions tropicales et tempres relativement chaudes du monde. A l'chelle mondiale, la rouille, Puccinia arachidis, et la cercosporiose tardive, Phaeoisariopsis personata, sont les deux principales maladies de l'arachide. Les deux agents pathognes, dont Arachis est l'hte unique, sont probablement aussi originaires de l'Amrique du Sud, o ils se seraient dvelopps avec leurs htes. Au cours des dernires annes, un effort particulier a t fait pour cribler les ressources gntiques pour leur rsistance  ces maladies. A l'Institut International de Recherches sur les Cultures des Zones Tropicales Semi-Arides (ICRISAT), en Inde, quelque 10,000 gnotypes d'arachide ont t cribls, entre 1977 et 1985, pour leur rsistance  la rouille et la cercosporiose tardive, et des sources de rsistance  l'un ou l'autre, ou aux deux agents pathognes ont t identifies. Prs de 87% des gnotypes rsistants appartenaient  A. hypogaea var. fastigiata et 13%  var. hypogaea; 84% d'entre eux provenaient d'Amrique du Sud, ou pouvaient tre apparents  des sources sudamricaines. Un fort pourcentage (75%) provenait du Prou (centre gnique secondaire gnralement reconnu de var. hirsuta et var. fastigiata), suggrant ainsi que les sources de rsistance  la rouille et la cercosporiose tardive se seraient dveloppes dans ce pays. 
4253797|Germination of Dioscoreophyllum cumminsii is inhibited by light. Under shade 80 to 85% germination was achieved after 10 weeks. Pre-treatment with 0.1% to 0.5% giberrilic acid solutions was found to reverse the light inhibition and to accelerate germination. These techniques may enable large-scale cultivation of D. cumminsii from seeds and commercial exploitation of the berries.
4253414|Extractives from, and utilization of, Cactaceae (cacti), Liliaceae (yucca), Amaryllidaceae (agaves), and other desert plants are reviewed. Work is reported in the fields of pharmaceuticals with special reference to an antidiabetic factor, cosmetics, cellulose and fibers, stock feeds, plant growth regulators, sterols, oils and oilseeds, surfactants, waxes, and several miscellaneous extractives. Mesquite, ironwood, and catclaw are considered as artists' woods. Possibilities and problems of cultivation are considered.
4254158|This is a comprehensive review of literature pertaining to the aquatic fern Azolla and its nitrogen-fixing algal symbiont, Anabaena azollae. The preceding decade has witnessed an explosive growth in research on Azolla, and hopefully this paper will facilitate those efforts. The paper is broken into three major categories: botany, physiology and biochemistry, and agriculture. The botany section includes a world distribution map and reference tables for the 6 Azolla species, and includes the first review of literature on Anabaena azollae. The physiology and biochemistry section covers the range of topics from environmental factors to life processes and nitrogen fixation. Tables on the effect of growth regulators and on the rate of nitrogen fixation measured by acetylene reduction are presented. The agriculture section draws extensively from literature published in the People's Republic of China and in the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. The major focus of this section is on the history and management practices for Azolla cultivation as a green manure for rice. The effect of weed suppression, use as a fish food and animal fodder, and the insects and diseases of Azolla are also discussed.
4256648|Fifteen years after a symposium on economic plants projecting to the year 2000, what predictions and remarks of the speakers with reference to ethnobotany and medicinal plants proved prophetic and what others fell short? Certainly they predicted a continuation of acculturation, biodiversity loss, and technology advances. They also foresaw the need for collaborative, multidisciplinary research and major government funding, and changes in regulations governing an expanded industry in botanicals, nutriceuticals, and phytopharmaceuticals, all of which occurred. However, many technologies were in their infancy or unknown, such as gene amplification and recombinant procedures, high-throughput screening, gene chip technology, and combinatorial chemistry, and are only now being used in research and development in the discovery of new therapeutics. Likewise, who would have foreseen worldwide devastating effects of mutant microorganisms resistant to drugs of choice for treating important diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis? Research data involving these two infections illustrate the value of finding activity based on collections specifically targeted by indigenous users (antimalaria) and those generally used medicinally together with chemotaxonomic selections (antituberculosis). A discussion of research beyond 2000 addresses the future of ethnobotanical research, acculturation and biodiversity losses, collaborative research, regulation and/or standardization of pharmaceuticals, nutriceuticals, and phytopharmaceuticals, and new technologies.
40686813|Along the Pastaza and Urituyacu rivers in Peru, 100 informants in four villages knew 17 different uses of the piassaba fiber palm, Aphandra natalia (Balslev and Henderson) Barfod. Human consumption of fruits, extraction of fibers for trade, and harvesting leaves for thatch were the most frequently reported uses. Twenty uses were documented previously in the literature, and eight are reported here for the first time. Knowledge concerning the use of A natalia among villagers varied significantly with ethnicity, village, and gender, but not with education or age; Amerindian informants knew more than non-Amerindian informants, and men knew more than women. Old and young informants knew about the same numbers of uses, and those who had little formal school training knew as many as those who had attended school for a longer time. Although 44% of our informants knew about fiber extraction, trade involving Aphandra fibers was not of great economic importance in our study area. Because fiber extraction has been documented as the most important use in all previous studies of A. natalia, it was surprising to find that people in one of the studied villages did not use A. natalia for that purpose at all. In contrast to previous observations, the extraction of fibers involved the destructive felling of the palms. We recommend implementing non-destructive extraction techniques so that local communities could exploit the fiber resource in a sustainable way. Non-destructive extraction methods involve cutting leaves from standing palms instead of felling the entire tree and leaving a few leaves on each extracted palm. However, given the limited economic incentive to the extractor, market mechanisms may be the greatest barrier to implementing sustainable extraction techniques. A lo largo de los ros Pastaza y Urituyacu en Per, 100 informantes en cuatro comunidades conocan 17 usos diferentes de la palma piasaba, Aphandra natalia (Balslev & Henderson) Barfod. El consumo humano de sus frutos, extraccin de fibras para su venta, y la cosecha de hojas para techar las casas, eran los usos mas frecuentemente reportados. Anteriormente se conocan 20 usos de esta palma y ocho usos estn reportadas por primera vez en esta publicacin. El conocimiento tradicional relacionado con el uso de A. natalia en las comunidades estudiadas fue significativamente variable en cuanto a etnicidad, comunidad, y gnero, pero no en cuanto a educacin y edad. Informantes indgenas saban ms que informantes no-indgenas y los hombres saban ms que las mujeres. Informantes jvenes y de mayor edad conocan el mismo nmero de usos de la piasaba y los que tenan pocos aos de estudios escolares conocan el mismo nmero de usos que los que haban atendido colegio por ms aos. Aunque 44% de los informantes tenan conocimiento de la extraccin de las fibra de piasaba, el negocio con la fibra no era de gran importancia en las comunidades visitadas. En todos los estudios anteriores de A. natalia, la extraccin de fibra ha sido reportada como el uso ms importante. Sin embargo, en una de las comunidades estudiadas ese uso de la palma no era conocido. En contraste a observaciones anteriores, la extraccin de fibra se llev a cabo con mtodos destructivos, tumbando la palma. Recomendamos la implementacin de tcnicas de extraccin no-destructivas para que el uso de este recurso sea sostenible. Las tcnicas no-destructivas dejan 5-6 hojas en la palma cosechada, sin tumbarla. Sin embargo, los incentivos econmicos a los que cosechan la fibra son muy limitados, por lo cual los mecanismos del mercado pueden ser la barrera mas importantes para la implementacin de tcnicas sostenibles de extraccin de este recurso.
4256288| This study examines both edible plants and non-food uses of plants in a limited area to provide clues for archaeologists, to interpret their findings including the reconstruction of former diets. The results are based on an ethnoarchaeological study conducted in 1994-1995 on the traditional subsistence economy of a contemporary village, in close proximity to a pre-ceramic Neolithic site, Aikli, in the Aksaray province of Central Anatolia. As a part of this study, about 600 plant specimens were collected, of which over 300 were considered useful by the villagers. Through this study the floral potential of a limited area, and the richness of the traditional knowledge of plants was documented to provide clues to archaeologists, archaeobotanists, botanists, pharmacologists, economists, and perhaps to the planners of future local development projects. /// Bu alimada, arkeologlara karilatirma malzemesi salamak ve gemite yaami insanlarin gida rejimleriyle yaam biimlerini yeniden oluturabilmelerine yardimci olmak zere, bir kyn 'eriim alani' iindeki yenen ve dier amalarla kullanilan yararli bitkiler aratirilmitir. 1994-1995 yillarinda Orta Anadolu'da Aksaray ilinde, anak-mlek ncesi Neolitik dneme ait Aikli yerlemesine yakin modern bir kyde geleneksel geim ekonomisini konu alan bir etnoarkeolojik alima gerekletirilmi; bu alimanin bir blm olarak 600'e yakin bitki rnei toplanmi ve 300' akin bitkinin kyllerce adlandirildii ve ounun kullanildii saptanmitir. Bu alima, dar bir alandaki bitki kapasitesinin zenginliini ve bitkilere ilikin geleneksel bilginin derinliini gstererek arkeologlara, arkeobotanikilere, botanikilere, farmakologlara, ekonomistlere ve belki yerel kalkinma projeleri hazirlayan planlamacilara nemli ipulari sunmaktadir. 
4254080|Seed protein extracts from 477 Japanese soybean cultivars were analyzed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to determine the distribution of the alleles of the Ti (
4253170| The effect of 2-chloroethylphosphonic acid (CEPA) on GA induction of -amylase in the barley endosperm test was studied. No amylolytic activity could be detected when CEPA was substituted for GA. When CEPA was added simultaneously with GA it inhibited GA induction of -amylase. Inhibition increased as increasing concentrations of CEPA were added. This inhibition is partially due to a direct influence of CEPA on the enzyme-starch reaction. 
4255304| Twenty-eight taxa of Helianthus collected throughout the United States and grown in a field nursery were evaluated for yields of oil, polyphenol hydrocarbon, protein, and ash in above-ground biomass. Hydrocarbons were examined for the presence of rubber, gutta, and waxes. Rubber and gutta were analyzed for weight-average molecular weight (Mw) and molecular weight distribution (MWD). Helianthus ciliaris had the highest oil yield (3.7%) and was analyzed for yield of fatty acids and unsaponifiable matter. Most taxa had low polyphenol yields (<10%), with H. strumosus having the highest (13.9%). Helianthus salicifolius yielded the most hydrocarbon (1.6%) and H. ciliaris had the highest protein content (13.4%). Natural rubber was present in 13 species of wild sunflowers. Helianthus maximiliani had the lowest Mw (
4255778| Traditional medicine in the middle and west Black Sea regions: Amasya, Bilecik, Bolu, ankiri, Samsun, Sinop and Tokat provinces has been studied and 194 remedies obtained from 96 plant and 5 animal species are compiled. Vernacular names, parts used, methods of preparation, and medicinal usages are listed. / Orta ve Bati Karadeniz Blgelerinde Amasya, Bilecik, Bolu, ankiri, Samsun, Sinop ve Tokat illerinde halk tababeti incelenerek, 96'si bitkisel ve 5'i hayvansal olmak zere 194 halk ilaci tespit edilmitir. Kullanilan materyalin mahalli ismi, tedavide kullanilan kisimlari, ilacin hazirlani ekli ve tedavideki kullanili amaci ile ilgili bilgiler liste halinde verilmitir. 
4255800| The results of the first detailed study of the use of medicinal plants by a group of Yanomami Indians are presented. Contrary to previous assumptions, they are shown to possess a substantial pharmacopoeia, including at least 113 species of plants and fungi. The changes in their use and knowledge of plant medicine are discussed in the context of the past and present influences on the Yanomami by the outside world. /// O presente trabalho apresenta os resultados obtidos atravs do primeiro estudo detalhado a respeito do uso de plantas medicinais por um grupo de ndios Yanomami. Ao contrrio do que se acreditava anteriormente, estes ndios possuem uma farmacopia considervel, na qual incluem-se, pelo menos, 112 espcies de plantas e fungos. As mudanas ocorridas no uso e no conhecimento das plantas medicinais so discutidas no contexto das influncias que os Yanomami vm sofrendo atravs do contato com o mundo exterior, tanto no passado como no presente. 
4255187|Cucurbita pepo includes eight groups of edible cultivars-pumpkins, scallops, acorns, crooknecks, straightnecks, vegetable marrows, cocozelles, and zucchinis. The pumpkins, scallops, and possibly the crooknecks are ancient groups that developed along separate lines of domestication in North America. Incipient forms of all the other five groups appeared in botanical herbals of Europe by 1700. Modern forms of the vegetable marrows, cocozelles, zucchinis, and acorns appeared in Europe prior to 1860, and the modern straightnecks appeared in North America by 1896. Divergence among the various groups appears to be increasing under continuing domestication due to the different demands made on cultivars grown for their immature fruits as opposed to cultivars grown for their mature fruits. An association exists between length to width ratio and stage of culinary use of the fruits in Cucurbita pepo.
4251917|The drug scopolamine is important, among other uses, as a pre-anesthetic in surgery and childbirth, in ophthalmology and in prevention of motion sickness. Datura Metel of Asia and Africa has been regarded as the best source of it, but a pharmacognostic study, reported here, indicates that D. innoxia of Latin America is a possible industrial source.
4255888| Participant observation and formal interviews were used to learn what local people understood of palm natural history and how palms were managed. Ecological and ethnographic methods were combined to assess traditional ecological knowledge (TEK) and traditional resource management (TRM). Palm workers understood TEK and TRM for palms. This knowledge was not general in the population, however. Residence, harvester status, and gender were strongly correlated with TEK and TRM. Harvest practices included limiting access, "sparing," controlling harvest times and levels, and choice of leaf age and palm size. "Alpha" management is proposed as practices which maintain populations long-term. In this case, sparing was the single most important practice. "Beta" management is shorter term and important for obtaining good quality product in sufficient quantities. Although the impacts are more subtle, it can affect population structure over time. This study provides one prototype for identifying practices which function as de facto conservation traditions for wild-harvested species. /// Observacin participante y entrevistas formales fueron los mtodos utilizados para aprender cmo la gente local entendi la historia natural y manejo de las palmas. Mtodos ecolgicos y etnogrficos fueron combinados para valorar el conocimiento tradicional de la ecologa (TEK) y el manejo tradicional de los recursos (TRM) para las palmas. Aunque los palmeros entiendieron TEK y TRM para las palmas, este conocimiento no era generalizado entre la poblacin. La residencia, y el estatus y el gnero del palmero fueron correlacionados fuertemente con TEK y TRM. Las prcticas de cosecha incluyeron: acceso limitado a las poblaciones, uso moderado de grandes palmas, tiempos y niveles controlados de cosecha, seleccin del tamao de la palma y edad de la hoja. El manejo "alpha" es un manejo a largo plazo para el mantenimiento de las poblaciones, en este caso a travs del uso moderado de las palmas grandes. El manejo "beta" es un manejo a corto plazo e importante para la obtencin de productos de buena calidad en suficientes cantidades. Aunque su impacto sobre las poblaciones es ms sutil, si puede afectar la estructura poblacional con el tiempo. Este estudio provee un modelo para valorar las especies silvestres e identificar las prcticas tradicionales que de hecho funcionan funcionan en la conservacin de estas especies. 
4255411| A study is presented of the Hospital de la Sangre account books in Seville at the Archivo Hispalense for the period 1546 to 1601, to verify purchases of potatoes (Solanum tuberosum) during that period. Potatoes were bought regularly in the Seville market from 1580 onwards, with the first record appearing in 1573 thus agreeing with Salaman's conclusion that potatoes became established in Spain by about 1570. Purchases were confined almost entirely to December and January each year, lending weight to the hypothesis that these were short day adapted S. tuberosum ssp. andigena, actually grown in Spain and forming tubers in the short days at the end of the year. If potatoes had been imported for direct consumption from South America shipping records indicate that they could have arrived in Seville at all times of the year. A listing of other fruits and vegetables bought in the Seville market shows a wide range of mostly mediterranean crops with some of Near Eastern origin and certain spices imported through Lisbon from the Far East. Surprisingly, very few New World crops are mentioned. /// Se presenta un estudio sobre los libros de contabilidad del Hospital de la Sangre (Archivo Hispalense, Sevilla) del perodo 1546-1601 con vistas a la verificacin de compras de patatas (Solanum tuberosum) durante dicho perodo. Las patatas se comercializaban de forma regular en los mercados de Sevilla a partir de 1580, apareciendo la primera cita en 1573, lo cual confirma las conclusiones de Salaman respecto a que las patatas se establecen en Espaa sobre el ano 1570. Estas adquisiciones aparecen restringidas a Diciembre y Enero, lo cual apoya la hiptesis de que se trataban de plantas de S. tuberosum ssp. andigena ya que las mismas pueden producir tubrculos en las condiciones de da corto de finales del ano. Si se tratase de patatas traidas directamente de Amrica datos del trfico martimo indicaran que las mismas llegaban a Sevilla a lo largo de todo el ano. Un estudio similar con otras frutas y verduras muestra un amplio abanico de cultivos principalmente de origen mediterraneo con algunas especias originarias de Oriente que se importaban, va Lisboa, desde el Lejano Oriente. Sorprendentemente muy pocos cultivos originarios del Nuevo Mundo se mencionan. 
4251893|Citric, gluconic, fumaric and gallic acids, all having industrial applications, are the only ones among 41 known fungus acids that are produced commercially today.
4252107|Fungi are important in the manufacture of two types of cheese-blue-veined cheeses, and Camembert and Brie. Among the former are Roquefort, Gorgonzola and Stilton, dependent on the mold Penicillium roqueforti and the bacterium Streptococcus lactis. Camembert and Brie require Penicillium camemberti and lactic acid-producing streptococci; the mold Oospora lactis and the organism Bacterium linens may also play roles in their manufacture.
4256918|This paper focuses on medicinal plants found on the Caribbean island of Montserrat; however, other plant uses were also documented when found. Two hundred seventy-two taxa from seventy-eight families are listed along with habitat information and ethnobotanical notes when pertinent. Brief treatments of the islands' vegetation and geographical conditions are also included. Montserrat is a tropical island with a diverse flora and a rich heritage of plant folklore, the latter encompassing traditions passed down from Africans, Caribbean Amerindians, and Europeans. Prior to the recent volcanic eruptions, the author did a taxonomic study of ethnobotanically important plants found on Montserrat. Although the main purpose of this study was to gather ethnobotanical information, a number of plants which are not known to be ethnobotanically important to Montserratians were collected in order to augment our knowledge of the flora of the island. The island's recent devastating volcanic eruptions (resulting in the deaths of several informants and obliteration of large tracts of vegetation) have made the data collected in this project all the more significant.
4256392| This study examines the use of Astrocaryum standleyanum for basketry by Wounaan and Ember artisans in Panama. Fibers from the palm are a traditional source of material for baskets, which have become commercial art items within the last fifteen years. Data on palm use were collected over two years, largely from Darin Province. Results indicate that the palm is destructively harvested, usually for a single spear leaf. Artisans remove the fibers from the pinnae and color them with dye plants. Astrocaryum standleyanum strands are sewn around a foundation of Carludovica palmata to make coiled baskets. Wounaan weavers are considered the better artisans, perhaps because of cultural traditions or a longer history with art vendors. The sale of A. standleyanum baskets is an important source of cash income, with both domestic and international sales. The destructive harvesting of palms threatens the industry and suggestions are made for sustainable harvest. /// Este estudio examina el uso de la palma Astrocaryum standleyanum para cestera por artesanos Wounaan y Ember en Panam. Fibras de la palma son una fuente tradicional de material para canastas, las cuales han llegado a ser objetos de arte comercial en los ltimos quince aos. Se colectaron datos sobre el uso de la palma durante dos aos, por la mayor parte en la provincia de Darin. Resultados indican que la palma se cosecha destructivamente, normalmente solo para una nica hoja bandera. Artesanas remueven las fibras de las pinas y las tien con plantas. Se cosen hilos de Astrocaryum standleyanum en vueltas alrededor una fundacin de Carludovica palmata para hacer canastas enrolladas. Tejedoras Wounaanes son reconocidas como las mejores artesanas, tal vez por sus tradiciones culturales o su historia larga con vendedoras de arte. La venta de canastas de A. standleyanum es una fuente importante de ingresos de efectivo, con ventas domsticas e internacionales. La cosecha destructiva de palmas amenaza la industria y se han propuesto sugerencias para la cosecha sostenible. 
4251881|Some of these lowly plants have long served as fodder for the reindeer herds of Lapplanders, while others have been the sources of industrial dyes, as those used in the manufacture of Harris Tweed cloth.
40390477|The prominent golden chanterelle of California's oak woodlands is characterized as a new species, Cantharellus californicus sp. nov. r using molecular and morphological data. Our observations indicate that it is the largest Cantharellus species in the world, with individual sporocraps commonly weighing 1/2 kilogram (kg) (or 1 pound) or more when mature. Other Cantharellus species in California are compared and evaluated, including their known ectomycorrhizal hosts. The California oak chanterelle is an economically valuable species, and some observations on its commercial harvest are presented.
40390393|This paper reports the use of medicinal plants by Nahua women in the state of Veracruz, Mexico. It documents the women's plant knowledge for reproductive purposes, which includes uses such as conception, pregnancy, birth, contraception, menstruation, post-partum, and general reproductive health. The concept of equilibrium is very important in regaining health among the Nahua; consequently, many of the medicinal plants have this as their primary purpose. The introduction of biomdical clinics and hospitals in the region has had a significant effect on the loss of knowledge about medicinal plants. Additionally, the midwives are not taking any new apprentices and laywomen are not passing on their knowledge to future generations. This generational gap contributes to the loss of knowledge about medicinal plants. This research contributes to the study of indigenous ethnobotany by (a) creating a record of the plant knowledge possessed by indigenous women, (b) giving voice to some of their health concerns, (c) indicating how the introduction of biomedicine has affected their plant use, and (d) providing a framework for understanding how marginal peoples around the world respond to the impact that globalization and change has on their health needs and local ethnobotanical knowledge.
41408262|Once European explorers began sending back plants from distant lands, confusion developed regarding their identities. Among these was Ipomoea pandurata, which native peoples in the eastern United States considered to be a purgative. Unfortunately, edible plants like potatoes were confused with 1. pandurata, and by the early 1900s Americans and Europeans began writing that indigenous peoples also ate its roots. The literature for the late 1900s into the 2000s mostly reports that 1. pandurata is edible. Although no documented use for food by pre-European cultures in the Americas has been found, the myth persists that the roots were eaten on a regular basis. Una vez que los exploradores europeos comenzaron a enviar las plantas las Americas, la confusin comenz con respecto a la identidad de las especies. Las poblaciones indgenas en el este de los Estados Unidos consideraban 1. pandurata como una planta medicinal. Lamentablemente, algunas plantas comestibles como la papa tambin se confundan con 1. pandurata, y por principios de los aos 1900 los americanos y los europeos empezaron a escribir que las poblaciones indgenas tambin coman races de la misma. La literatura de finales de los 1900 y principios del 2000 dice en general que 1. pandurata es comestible. Aunque no se ha encontrado documentacin sobre su uso para la alimentacin entre las culturas pre-europeas en las Americas, persiste el mito de que la gente coma las races regularmente.
4255644| The population biology of Aquilaria malaccensis, one source of gharu, and Cinnamomum mollissimum, one source of wild cinnamon, was studied in a 50 ha permanent plot of primary rain forest in Malaysia. Median diameter growth rates of 0.22 cm yr
4256325| This study documents the utilization aspects and distribution of ethnobotanical knowledge of the local people of Morogoro, Tanzania, as a first step towards sustainable utilization and conservation of tropical woodlands. A total of 133 arborescent species in 31 families was identified of which 69% had a variety of uses. These uses were classified into 12 categories and major uses were charcoal, firewood, medicine, and poles. Most tree species have occasional uses, but a few are exceptionally useful and thus their levels of utilization may far exceed their regeneration and production. The questionnaire survey indicated that 62% of the respondents agreed that traditional medical services were more available than modern services. Utilization surveys indicated that wooden poles are the building material used in 98% of the dwellings and storage structures, wild foods were useful for food security especially during drought years, and high quality timber trees have been depleted in the forest because of earlier exploitation by pit-sawing. The distribution of ethnobotanical knowledge indicated that much of the relevant ethnobotanical and utilization information was held by more aged members of the society and hence there is a clear need to capture this knowledge before it is lost. This study has shown that resources are defined by use and culture, and some components of ethnobotanical knowledge have potential for the sustainable management of miombo woodlands. /// L'tude porte sur les diffrentes utilisations, distributions ainsi que la connaissance ethnobotanique de l'ethnie locale du Morogoro en Tanzanie, comme premire tape vers une meilleure utilisation et conservation des rgions forestires tropicales. Un total de 133 espces arborescentes ont t identifie, 69% des 31 familles font l'objet de diverses utilisations. Ces utilisations sont classes en 12 catgories. Les principales utilisations sont le charbon, le bois de chauffe, la mdecine. La majorit des espces d'arbre sont utilises occasionellement mais certaine sont trs utiles et ainsi leur niveau d'utilisation dpasse de loin de taux de production et de rgnration. Le questionnaire indique que 62% des personnes interroges prfrent la mdecine traditionnelle plus accessible que celle moderne. Le bois est surtout utilis comme matriaux de construction dont 98% pour maison et le stockage. La nourriture sauvage a t trs utile pour l'hygine alimentaire, spcialement durant les annes de scheresse et de forte exploitation forestire. La distribution de la connaissance ethnobotanique indique que la majorit des informations sont tenues par les personnes ages de la socit et il est impratif de conserver cette connaissance avant qu'elle ne soit dfinitivement perdue. Cette tude a montr que les ressources sont dfinies par l'utilisation et la culture. Certaines parties de la connaissance ethnobotanique sont alors ncessaire pour une bonne exploitation des rgions boises du miombo. 
4254644|The leaves of Pandanus dubius and P. solomonensis serve as a primary protective cover from the tropical sun and torrential rain in the Solomon Islands. A study of the process of manufacture and the present use was undertaken in 2 distinct geographical and linguistic areas of Guadalcanal to determine what features have enabled this traditional craft to survive relatively unaffected by over 100 yr of European contact. The traditional method of preparation and manufacture is described for the ethnobotanical record.
4256909|Forest-based farmers are faced with rapidly changing economic opportunities due to many factors. In response, farmers are changing their main economic activities and land uses. This study compares the financial costs and benefits of the principal land use options in two sub-districts of East Kalimantan Province, Indonesia. Financial benefits of oil palm plantation, traditional rattan gardens, intensive rubber plantation, and traditional rubber plantation are compared on a land unit basis. Oil palm is by far the most profitable, followed by rattan gardens. Rubber production, at current prices, is not profitable. Benefit-cost ratios and returns to labor, which better reflect the farmer perspective, reveal that rattan is more attractive, with oil palm in a strong second place. Non-financial considerations also help to explain the resilience of the rattan garden system. The conclusions summarize the findings and offer options to counter the strong negative impact of recent events on the rattan farmers.
4256609| This paper presents the results of a survey on the ethnobotany of the wild Mexican Cucurbitaceae. The sources of information were fieldwork in different regions of Mexico, as well as herbarium specimens and bibliographic references. A total of 34 wild species (26.5% of the 128 wild mexican species) of Cucurbitaceae are reported as used in 24 of the 32 states of Mexico. All of the species are called by one or more local names, and 23 are known by names in native languages. The uses comprise 12 categories, including human medicine (18), food (13), soap substitute (12), fodder (4), toy (3), drink (2), ornate (2), insecticide (1), animal medicine (1), handicrafts (2), container (1), and ceremonial (1), and some uses date back to pre-Hispanic and colonial times. /// Este artculo presenta los resultados de una investigacin etnobotnica de las especies mexicanas silvestres de la familia Cucurbitaceae. Las fuentes de informacin fueron el trabajo de campo en diferentes regiones de Mxico, as como tambin ejemplares de herbario y referencias bibliogrficas. Un total de 34 especies silvestres (26.5% de las 128 especies silvestres mexicanas) de Cucurbitaceae son reportadas como tiles en 24 de los 32 estados de Mxico. Todas las especies son conocidas por uno o ms nombres locales y 23 de ellas reciben nombres en lenguas nativas. Los usos registrados abarcan un total de doce categoras, incluyendo medicina humana (18), alimento (13), substituto de jabn (12), forraje (4), juguete (3), bebidas (2), ornato (2), insecticidas (1), medicina animal (1), artesanas (2), contenedores (1) y ceremonial (1), y algunos de los usos parecen remontarse a las pocas pre-Hispnica y colonial. 
4254484|Various solvents were examined for their effectiveness in the extraction of nonpolar and polar compounds from plant materials for obtaining botanochemicals. Cyclohexane extraction followed by methanol gave consistently higher yields than other solvents in current use. Soxhlet extraction was found to give higher yields than shaking/decanting. Yields of nonpolar and polar extractions are reported for 80 species from the southeastern United States and southern Great Plains.
4257015| Tibetan land use near Khawa Karpo, Northwest Yunnan, China, incorporates indigenous forest management, gathering, pastoralism, and agriculture. With field-based GIS, repeat photography, and Participatory Rural Appraisal we quantitatively compare land use between higher and lower villages, and between villages with and without roads. Households in higher elevation (>3,000 meters) villages cultivate more farmland (z = -5.387, P  0.001), a greater diversity of major crops (z = -5.760, P < 0.001), a higher percentage of traditional crops, and fewer cash crops (z = -2.430, P = 0.015) than those in lower elevation villages (<2,500 meters). Villages with roads grow significantly more cash crops (z = -6.794, P  0.001). Both lower villages and villages with roads travel farther to access common property resources. Historical analyses indicate agricultural intensification in valleys, an increase in houses, new crop introduction, hillside aforestation, cessation of hunting, glacial retreat, and timberline advance within the past century. We suggest that Tibetan land use reveals trade-offs between high, remote villages and lower villages near roads. Higher villages offer abundant land and access to natural resources but short growing seasons and little market access; in contrast, lower villages have road and market access, an extended growing season, and modern technology, but limited access to land and many other natural resources. 
4256642| Hippocratea excelsa and Hippocratea celastroides have therapeutic and insecticide applications in Mexican traditional medicine. The toxicity of H. excelsa root cortex has been previously demonstrated against the stored grain pest Sitophilus zeamais. To identify the active compounds, several extracts (petroleum ether,
4256872| This paper reports on the most important non-timber forest products (NTFPs) marketed and used during the dry season in Cinzana, near Sgou, Mali. Data was gathered from villagers through market surveys and interviews with vendors, buyers, and key informants in traditional medicine. In the Sudano-sahelian agricultural region, NTFPs are collected from parklands, comprising of fallows and croplands. Of the 20 species, five were used in handicraft production, 11 yielded human foods, and 11 had medicinal uses. In addition, many tree species have multipurpose value: six of the 20 species were recorded to be food producers in addition to having uses for handicraft production and/or medicine. The contribution of herbaceous species to the NTFPs used and harvested during the dry season is negligible. Only one of the species was non-ligneous, indicating the large significance of tree species for local communities in a region with long seasonal dry periods. /// Cet article prsente une tude sur l'utilisation des produits forestiers non ligneux (PFNL) durant la saison sche dans la rgion agricole Soudano-sahlienne au Mali. Cette tude a t realise  travers interviews auprs de connaisseurs en mdecine traditionelle et de villageois de Cinzana, une municipalit avoisinant la ville de Sgou. Dans cette rgion agricole Soudano-sahlienne, les PFNL sont rcolts dans les jachres et dans les champs. Parmi les 20 espces enregistres, cinq taient utilises dans l'artisanat, 11 dans la nourriture humaine et 11 dans l'usage mdecinal. En outre, de nombreuses essences ont des valeurs multiples avec plus d'un tier des espces tudies pouvant tre utilises dans la nourriture ainsi que dans l'artisanat et/ou dans la mdecine locale. Une seule des espces tait non-ligneuse, ce qui indique l'importance des arbres pour l'installation humaine dans une rgion de scheresse saisonnire longue. 
4287971|Fish stupefaction is practised throughout the year among the Tarahumar of Western Chihuahua, Mexico, but is especially important between March and June, when food reserves are low. In the areas occupied by these people, plants from 13 different families of flowering plants provide either piscicidal or stupefaction properties. The method of use, stupefying principle, parts employed, and potency of the individual plants are quite variable.
4287849|This important plant product, used more extensively, probably, than any other vegetable fibre except cotton, was long a monopoly product of Bengal. Division of that land in 1947 between India and Pakistan created production and employment problems respecting this crop, the solution of which, from the Indian viewpoint, is discussed in this article, along with an account of the fibre itself, of the plants which furnish it, and of the utilization that has made it an item of world-wide importance.
4257172|Echinacea angustifolia DC. (Asteraceae) is a major North American medicinal plant that has been harvested commercially in north-central Kansas for 100 years, making it one of the longest documented histories of large-scale commercial use of a native North American medicinal herb. We have compiled historical market data and relate it to harvest pressure on wild Echinacea populations. Interviews with local harvesters describe harvesting methods and demonstrate the species' resilience. Conservation measures for E. angustifolia also should address the other threats faced by the species and may include restoration and management of its mixed-grass prairie habitat and protection by private landowners.
4255881| Tropical forests represent repositories of medicinal plant species and indigenous ethnomedical knowledge. These biotic and cognitive resources are threatened by forest removal and culture change. It has, however, yet to be demonstrated quantitatively that tropical pharmacopoeias are concentrated in primary as opposed to disturbed forests, nor that folk ethnomedical knowledge is disappearing. I examined these questions by means of a useful species enumeration of l-hectare primary and secondary forest plots, and a survey of the regional plant pharmacopoeia of the Atlantic forests of Bahia, Brazil, a region that has witnessed significant human and biological modification. Healers demonstrated a strong preference for disturbed over primary forest. Second growth forest plots yielded 2.7 times the number of medicinal species identified in primary forest plots. The regional survey likewise elicited an ethnoflora characterized by herbaceous, weedy, cultivated, and exotic taxa. These results may reflect the availability and intrinsic medicinal value of disturbance species, as well as the increasing rarity of the region's primary forests. They may also represent the long term outcome of culture change, cognitive erosion, and reformulation of the region's perceived healing flora. /// As florestas tropicais representam e desempenham a funo de depsitos onde se encontram vrias espcies de plantas medicinais e um grande conhecimento etnobotnico indgena. Devido no entanto ao desflorestamento e  transformao cultural ocorrida, fontes deste deste conhecimento profundo, e tambm dos recursos biolgicos, encontram-se em perigo de futuro desaparecimento. Ao mesmo tempo, ainda no foi demonstrado quantitivamente que as farmacopias tropicais estejam concentradas em floresta primria, nem que a sabedoria popular sobre estas plantas esteja desaparecendo. Uma enumerao de espcies teis foi realizada em terreno florestal na mata atlntica da Bahia, Brasil. Para isso foram usados lotes de um hectare da floresta primria e um hectare da floresta j cultivado anteriormente. Ao mesmo tempo fez-se um recenseamento da farmacopia vegetal da regio. Os resultados destas experincias mostraram que as plantas medicinais so mais abundantes nas reas j pertubadas que nas reas virgens. Um inqurito etnobotnico da regio mostrou tambm que a flora medicinal  fundamentalmente herbcea, ervanria, cultivada e extica. Esses resultados talvez indiqeum a disponibilidade e valor medicinal das plantas que ocorrem nas reas pertubadas. Outro fator  a dificuldade de encontrar matas virgens.  tambm possvel que essa preferncia reflita as mudanas culturais e, ao longo prazo, a destruio de conhecimentos bsicos sobre as propriedades medicinais da floresta primria. 
4256741| The essential oil of Chamaebatiaria millefolium from California is dominated by 24.90  4.46% camphor, 17.36  4.23% borneol, 11.17  4.26% camphene, and 10.95  4.59% -pinene. The essential oil of Chamaebatia australis from California is dominated by no constituent greater than 10% but contains 7.07  0.97% -cadinene, 6.84  1.47% terpinen-4-ol, and 5.46  1.50% linalool. The essential oil of Chamaebatia foliolosa from California is dominated by 12.90  3.67% unidentified sesquiterpene alcohol and 15.96  6.61% viridiflorol. No scientific literature exists to substantiate the medicinal claims for "Chamae Rose." Neither Chamaebatiaria multiflorium nor Chamabatiaria nelleae exist in the scientific literature. /// La composicion qumica del aceite esencial de Chamaebatiaria millefolium de California muestra dominancia de alcanfor (24.90  4.46%), borneol (17.36  4.23%), canfeno (11.17  4.26%), y a-pineno (10.95  4.59%). La de Chamaebatia australis de California no muestra dominancia de ms de 10% de ningn componente; las de ms alta concentracin son d-cadineno (7.07 + 0.97%), alcohol terpinen-4-ol (6.84 + 1.47%), y linalool (5.46  1.50%). En la de Chamaebatia foliolosa de California se encuentra dominancia de un alcohol sesquiterpnico no identificado (12.90  3.67%) y viridiflorol (15.96  6.61%). No existen artculos en la literatura cientfica que den sustento a las pretendidas propiedades medicinales del "Chamae Rose." No existen Chamaebatiaria multiflorium ni Chamabatiaria nelleae en la literatura cientfica. 
4255550| Our goal was to investigate in more detail wild and cultivated common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) accessions from northwestern South America (Colombia, Ecuador, and northern Peru) because prior research had shown this region to be the meeting place of the two major gene pools (Middle American and Andean) of common bean. Explorations were conducted in these countries to collect additional materials not represented in germplasm collections. It was possible to identify wild common bean populations in Ecuador and northern Peru, where they had never been described before. In addition, we were able to extend the distribution of wild common bean in Colombia beyond what was known prior to this study. In all areas, the wild common bean habitat had suffered severely from destruction of natural vegetation. In Colombia, wild common beans were found on the Eastern slope of the Andes (in continuation of its distribution in Venezuela), whereas in Ecuador and northern Peru they were found on the western slope of this mountain range. This geographic distribution was correlated with an ecological distribution in relatively dry environments with intermediate temperatures (known as "dry mountain forest"). Isozyme and phaseolin seed protein analyses of the northern Peruvian and Ecuadoran wild populations showed that they were intermediate between the Middle American and Andean gene pools of the species. Phaseolin analyses conducted on landraces of the Upper Magdalena Valley in Colombia showed that Andean domesticates were grown at a higher altitude than Middle American domesticates suggesting that the former are adapted to cooler temperatures. Our observations and results have the following consequences for the understanding and conservation of genetic diversity in common bean and other crops: 1) Our understanding of the distribution of the wild relative of common bean (and other crops) is imperfect and further explorations are needed to more precisely identify and rescue wild ancestral populations; 2) For crops for which the wild ancestor has not yet been identified, it may be worthwhile to conduct additional explorations in conjunction with genetic diversity studies at the molecular level to guide the explorations; 3) Our study shows the benefit for more efficient germplasm conservation which can be derived from the dynamic interplay between field explorations (and other conservation operations) and molecular analyses to determine genetic distances and diversities; 4) The intermediate materials identified in northern Peru and Ecuador may have basic importance to understand the origin of the common bean and an applied role as a bridge between the Middle American and Andean gene pools; and 5) The differential adaptation to temperature of the two major cultivated gene pools may help breeders select genotypes based at least partially on their evolutionary origin. / Nuestro objectivo fue investigar ms detalladamente las poblaciones silvestres y cultivadas del frjol comn (Phaseolus vulgaris) del noroeste de Suramrica (Colombia, Ecuador, y Per) porque investigaciones previas haban enseado que en esta regin se encuentran los dos acervos genticos mayores (Mesoamericano y Andino) de la especie. Nuevos materiales que no estaban representados an en bancos de recursos genticos fueron recolectados en los tres pases mencionados. Se encontraron poblaciones silvestres en Ecuador y el norte de Per donde nunca se haban reportado antes. Adems, se extendi la distribucin del frjol silvestre en Colombia ms all de lo que se conoca anteriormente. En todas las reas, el habitat del frjol silvestre haba padecido fuertemente de la destruccin de la vegetacin natural. En Colombia, se encontraron formas silvestres en la Cordillera Oriental (a continuacin de su distribucin en Venezuela) mientras que en Ecuador y el norte peruano fueron encontradas en la ladera occidental de la Cordillera. Esta distribucin geogrfica estaba correlacionada con una distribucin ecolgica en ambientes relativamente secos con temperaturas intermedias (conocidos como "bosque seco montano"). Anlisis de isoenzimas y de faseolinas, la proteina mayor de la semilla, mostraron que las poblaciones silvestres de Ecuador y del norte de Per eran intermedias entre los acervos Mesoamericano y Andino. Anlisis de faseolina en variedades criollas del Alto Magdalena en Colombia ensearon que las variedades de orgen andino se cultivaban a ms altitud que las variedades mesoamericanas. Esta observacin sugiere que en promedio variedades andinas son adaptadas a temperaturas ms frescas. Se proponen las siguientes conclusiones: 1) El conocimiento de la distribucin del ancestro silvestre del frjol comn (y de otros cultivos) es incompleto y se precisan otras recolecciones para identificar y salvar poblaciones silvestres; 2) En cultivos para los cuales todava no se ha encontrado el ancestro silvestre, se recomienda recolecciones adicionales junto con anlisis de diversidad gentica al nivel molecular para guiar las recolecciones; 3) Este estudio demuestra la importancia para la conservacin de recursos genticos de una interaccin dinmica entre recolecciones (y otros pasos en le conservacin) y anlisis al nivel molecular para determinar distancias y diversidades genticas; 4) Los materials intermedios que se identificaron en Ecuador y el norte de Per podran tener un papel en la determinacin del origen de la especie y como puente entre los dos acervos; y 5) La adaptacin diferencial a la temperatura de los dos acervos cultivados mayores puede ayudar a los mejoradores a seleccionar genotipos con base parcialmente a su origen evolucionario. 
4255128|Cola acuminata and C. nitida nuts were classified into nut weight classes, and each nut weight class was divided into groups according to the number of nut cotyledons. The nuts in each group were analyzed for inorganic and organic constituents. Statistical analyses showed the effect of nut weight to be significant on nutrient composition in the two species (P = 0.001) while cotyledon number effect was not significant in C. acuminata. Germination percentage and growth performance varied directly with nutrient contents which, parenthetically, were positively and significantly correlated with the nut weights (0.77 < r < 0.99 and 0.1% < P < 5%). Relationship between nut cotyledon number and the nutrient contents was not consistent. The preferential taste for C. nitida by people as compared to C. acuminata is probably because the former contains more free sugar and is more nutritious.
4255041| Dennstaedia glauca is used as a green manure in specific agricultural contexts in Puno, Per. It is applied in conjunction with animal manure and prior to potato cultivation in the first year after a period of fallow. Fronds of D. glauca, while containing average or low amounts of micronutrients, are high in nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium in comparison with other fern species and plant material in general. We suggest this fern contributes to fertility of soil used for tuber crops. The plant grows in abundance along watercourses and may play an important role as a recycler of nutrients leached from terraced fields. 
4256054| Argan (Argania spinosa) is an evergreen tree native to southwestern Morocco appreciated for its edible, high nutritional oil, extracted from the kernels of the drupe-like fruit. Aspects of its reproductive biology were studied with the aim to domesticate the tree as an oil crop. Flowering of fertigated trees cultivated in the Negev Highlands of Israel was confined to the spring months. The flowers were protogynous. Results of different pollination treatments showed that a pollen vector was necessary for pollination and that fruit set was significantly higher in cross and open pollination (7-9%) than in self pollination (0.5%). The lower fruit set obtained in self pollination was related to postzygotic discrimination. Pollen transfer by wind was restricted to short distances. Flies, mainly of the family Calliphoridae, visited the flowers and were found to be covered with argan pollen. Fruits ripened nine months after anthesis, exhibiting bisigmoidal growth curve. /// L'arganier (Argania spinosa) est un arbre endmique du Sud-Ouest marocain apprci pour l'huile comestible et  haute valeur nutritive extraite des graines de son fruit  caractre de faux drupe. Nous avons tudi certains aspects de la biologie reproductive de l'arganier dans le but de domestiquer cet arbre pour son huile. La floraison d'arbres irrigus poussant en Isral dans les hauteurs du Negev est restreinte au printemps. Les fleurs sont protogynes, le style emergeant de la fleur avant l'anthse. Les rsultats de diffrents traitements de pollinisation dmontrent la ncessit d'un vecteur pour la pollinisation, et aussi que le nombre de fruits poss est significativement plus lev dans les cas de croisements et de pollinisation ouverte (7-9%) que dans les cas d'auto-pollinisation (0.5%). La rduction observe dans le nombre de fruits poss par l'auto-pollinisation est attribuable  une discrimination post-zygotique. Le transport du pollen par le vent est restreint  de courtes distances, et l'intervention de mouches (Calliphoridae) dans la pollinisation a t dmontre. Les fruits exhibent une courbe de croissance bisigmode et atteignent l'tat mr neuf mois aprs l'anthse. 
4256990| The late Bronze Age lakeshore settlements of Grsine (French Alps) have yielded archaeobotanical evidence of 14 cultivated and 153 wild plants. Some of the wild taxa may have been collected, but many are probably here by chance. Three criteria are used as evidence for human transport and manipulation of wild plant remains: number of items, fragmentation, and carbonization. Relations between these criteria and known ethnobotanical properties of the identified plants are statistically analyzed. Results display good evidence of the gathering of edible wild fruits and seeds. Other gathering practices are not documented. Edible fruits and seeds seem to have been gathered mainly from ruderal spring weed communities and, possibly, from forest clearances and hedge communities. Fragmentation appears to be less of a discriminating factor than number of plant remains and carbonization. /// Les sites lacustres de l'ge du Bronze final de Grsine (Alpes franaises) ont permis l'attestation archobotanique de 14 plantes cultives et de 153 plantes sauvages. Certains des taxons sauvages ont pu tre cueillis mais nombre d'entre eux sont probablement prsents par accident. Trois critres sont utiliss pour montrer un apport et un traitement de ces plantes par l'homme: la reprsentation quantitative, la fragmentation et la carbonisation. Les relations statistiques entre ces critres et diverses proprits ethnobotaniques sont analyses. Les rsultats convergent pour attester la cueillette de fruits et graines sauvages comestibles. Aucune autre pratique de cueillette n'est mise en vidence. Les semences et fruits alimentaires proviennent plus particulirement des groupements de mauvaises herbes des cultures sarcles ou de printemps ainsi que, peut tre, des frutices, haies, lisires et clairires. Le taux de fragmentation est un caractre moins discriminant que la reprsentation quantitative et la carbonisation. 
4256388|Taro, Colocasia esculenta (Araceae), is a widely distributed and important food crop in the humid tropics and subtropics. Relatively neglected by science, much knowledge of genetic diversity in taro is with farmers. Taro genetic resources managed by five ethnic communities and Han farming villages in diverse ecosystems were sampled and characterized in Yunnan Province, southwest China. This study documented a new type of flowering taro selected by farmers which is widely and intensively cultivated for its edible flower. Samples representing 20 traditional cultivars were grouped into five major morphotypes according to ethnobotanical, agro-morphological, and preliminary genetic characterization. Folk taxonomy and uses tended to confirm the five morphotypes recognized by peoples of Yunnan for their distinctive properties and uses. These major taro morphotypes are key units for assessing how patterns of use maintain genetic diversity and to monitor potential genetic erosion. The morphotype groups also suggest possible evolutionary relationships in cultivated taros.
4256155| Traditional knowledge of grain storage was studied on small farms in Ethiopia. Sixteen of sixty landraces of sorghum collected from small farms in Shewa and Welo regions of Ethiopia were identified by the farmers as being stored sorghum landraces. Farmers were interviewed and asked to rate the storability of these stored-sorghum landraces with respect to the major insect pest of the area, the rice weevil. A farmers' index of storability was then calculated for each landrace. The landraces were then assessed for rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (L.), susceptibility in standardized tests at 70% relative humidity and 27C. The mean farmers' index for the 16 landraces was found to be inversely related with the susceptibility parameters of F
40390390|We present a synopsis of the history and derivation of faraga from its Arabic origin through confusion with the Chinese fajiu. Fagara, or Zanthoxylum, a medicinal spice, has a venerable history of human uses beginning in China, spreading through West Asia to Europe, and finally reaching the New World. /// Nosotros presentamos un resumen de la historia y derivacin de fagara a partir de su origen Arabe pasando por su confusion con el nombre Chino, fajiu. Fagara, o Zanthoxylum, una especia medicinal que tiene una venerable historia de usos humanos que comienzan en China, se propagan a travez del Asia Occidente hacia Europa Ilegando finalmente al Nuevo Mundo.
4254114|Examination of species of Trifolium in the Kentucky collection revealed that annual species generally have simple tap roots, low chromosome numbers (2n = 10-32), are usually self-pollinating and many were introduced from a Mediterranean type climate. Perennial species generally are tap-rooted, stoloniferous, or rhizomatous, possess higher chromosome numbers than annuals (2n = 12-130), are mostly cross-pollinating and do not have specific climate-habitat relationships. Species introduced from Eurasia are more numerous and more diverse in base chromosome number (n = 5-8) than from other origins. Only species with diploid chromosome numbers of 16 or higher are stoloniferous or rhizomatous. Rhizomatous species, mostly cross-pollinated, were introduced from Eurasia, North and South America, but not from Africa, and not often from Mediterranean climates. Self- and cross-pollinated species occur in all origins. Different flower colors and leafmarks are not associated with origins, climates, and other morphological and physiological characteristics.
4251978|This latex of the well known tropical papaya fruit contains protein-digesting enzymes and so finds utilization in digestive medicines and in tenderizing meats. It is valued also in the brewing and tanning industries and in the manufacture of chewing gum.
4255331|In situ conservation of crop genetic resources from centers of agricultural diversity is considered. This strategy has been rejected for several reasons, but other factors make it an important potential contributor to the overall conservation effort. Case studies of potato agriculture in Peru, maize agriculture in Mexico, and rice agriculture in Thailand indicate that farmers frequently engage in de facto conservation of landraces. Five principles should guide planning of in situ conservation: complementarity with off-site conservation, minimal institutional development, continuity with existing programs, meeting the development goals of increasing income and food, and accepting germplasm as an international public good. Four means to implement on-site conservation are presented: the institutional framework; the information base; the policy framework; and the role of grassroots organizations.
4255717| This paper describes the trade of dry medicinal plants in the southwestern area of the state of Puebla, Mexico. Gatherers who collect medicinal plants represent the poorest economic link in the trade chain. The critical socioeconomic situation of the human population is reflected in the state of the wild plants at the zone, as a result of an increase in their use for economic survival. The stock of medicinal plants handled by regional traders is an indicator of the abundance and diversity of the flora present in the zone, and permits a dynamic exchange of these products with regional traders from outside. Tracing the commercial path of six medicinal plants from the field to the market, only 6.17% of the consumer price, on average, was returned to the collectors. Most of the medicinal plants marketed and used in Mexico are wild plants. This fact, combined with the increasing demand that exists for medicinal plants in this region, create a potential environmental threat. Since this threat is a multifactorial one, involving the complex socioeconomic conditions in which rural workers and their families live, conservation programs for the wild flora (including reassessed gathering methods, production of selected medicinal species and protection of wild populations and market regulations of quality and equity) have to be applied within an organizational framework of the gatherers and peasants in the zone. / En la cadena de mercadeo de las plantas medicinales secas procedentes del suroccidente del estado de Puebla, Mxico, los recolectores constituyen el eslabn humano ms desprotegido. Las existencias de plantas medicinales presentes en la zona y manejadas por comerciantes regionales son un indicador de la diversidad florstica en Mxico, la cual permite un dinmico intercambio de stos productos. Al efectuar seguimiento de seis plantas medicinales desde el campo hasta su mercado, encontramos que slo el 6.17% del precio pagado por el consumidor es captado, en promedio, por el recolector. Dado que la mayor parte de las plantas medicinales comercializadas y utilizadas en Mxico son de origen silvestre, el incremento en la demanda existente en regiones como la estudiada implica una amenaza potencial para el medio ambiente. Ninguna solucin es posible si persiste la carencia de oportunidades frente a las adversas condiciones socioeconmicas en que sobreviven los trabajadores rurales y sus familias. 
4254432|Papaver bracteatum, native to Iran and southern Russia, has been grown successfully in many countries. Research in the northwest United States has confirmed the potential for its commercial production as a source of the alkaloid thebaine. Potential for the chemical conversion of thebaine into codeine, one of man's most widely used alkaloidal medicinal agents, is reviewed. Economic and social advantages of growing this species over opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) are discussed. The value of the seed oil for cooking and industrial use is considered.
4252095|Since Indian Podophyllum is very rich in a resin of cathartic action, it has been the subject of several botanical, chemical and pharmacological investigations, and has been admitted to the British Pharmacopoeia but not yet to that of the United States.
4287925|Brazil is richly endowed with oil-yielding plants-dozens of species in abundant supply, especially many kinds of palm. That successful exploitation of these natural and cultivated resources is largely dependent on economic factors and that such exploitation is important in the domestic economy of the country are the principal theses of this article.
4287927|Boron, calcium, copper, iron, manganese, molybdenum, sulphur, zinc, sodium and iodine, beneficial to plants though not all known to be essential for normal development, can influence the vitamin, the protein and the carbohydrate content of food plants. Fertilizing practise, based on this understanding, is one of the great fields of applied botany, the practical agricultural aspects of which are surveyed in this article.
4255225| Chayote (Sechium edule, Cucurbitaceae), a lesser-known member of the gourd family, is gaining in popularity and importance as a food crop worldwide. It is unique among cultivated cucurbits by bearing single-seeded fruits and exhibiting vivipary. Chayote, adaptable to a wide range of climatic conditions, can be grown with relative ease. In addition to its fruits, it yields tender shoots for use as vegetable greens, vines as ornament for fences or as animal fodder, and edible subterranean storage roots. It is worthy of being more widely used because it has good nutritional properties and a firm delectable fruit flesh texture and can be prepared in a variety of ways for consumption. /// Chayote (Sechium edule, Cucurbitaceae) ist einer der weniger bekannten Gattungen der Cucurbitaceae, obwohl sie immer mehr populaer und wichtig weltweit als Nahrungsmittel wird. Die Pflanze ist einzigartig unter kultivierten cucurbits wegen ihrer einsamigen Frchte und ausgeschossene Samen innerhalb einer Frucht (vivipary). Chayote, der sich zu abwechselnden Klimabedingungen anpassen kaun, lsst sich leicht anbauen. Zustzlich zu der geernten Frchten kann man die weichen Triebe als Gemse verwenden, sowie die Rebstcke als Hofschmuch oder als Futtermittel verwerten. Ausserdem sind die unterirdischen Wurzeln, die kohlenhydraten speichern knnen, sind essbar. Die kultivation der Pflanze sollte aufgrund ihrer nahrhaften Bestandteile und ihres schmackhaften Fruchtfleisches, das vielfltig zum Verbrauch zubereitet werden kann, verbreitet werden. 
4255810| The development of M. gale oil as an insect repellent has created a requirement for cultivation of the plant. Botanical evidence indicates that M. gale is likely to thrive on well-aerated acid peatland and could become a valuable crop on land of low agricultural value. Plant growth would be enhanced by the prevention of grazing and could be combined with softwood forestry since the trees would benefit from soil nitrogen enrichment thanks to the symbiotic association of M. gale and Frankia. The economics of oil production would be improved if additional compounds of value such as pharmacologically active flavonoids could be extracted from the by-products. /// Les caractristiques botaniques montrent que M. gale est capable de pousser sur une tourbe bien are et acide. Cette plante pourrait devenir une culture rentable sur des terres de faible valeur agricole. La croissance de la plante scrait favorise par la prvention du pturage. Elle pourrait tre associe  une fort de bois tendre, ainsi les arbres profiteraient de l'enrichissement du sol en azote d  la symbiose entre M. gale et Frankia. La rentabilit de la production d'huile serait amliore si d'autres composs intressants, tels que des flavonoides pharmacologiquement actifs, pouvaient tre extraits des sous-produits. 
4254909|Codeine, medically the most widely used opiate, is mostly derived from morphine, isolated from opium and poppy straw (Papaver somniferum, opium poppy). Morphine, however, is greatly misused by illegal conversion into its diacetyl-derivative: heroin. The discovery of an efficient alternative medicine or a source for codeine other than opium poppy may contribute to a curtailment of the heroin market. No major adverse properties should be present in such a new medicine or codeine source. In this paper the search for the latter is discussed with regards to the natural occurrence of morphinan derivatives and the biosynthetic pathways in available plants. Economic and social problems connected with the introduction of a new biological source for opiates are reviewed.
4256923|The Kucong, a branch of Lahu and an indigenous ethnic group living in Jinping County, Yunnan Province, China, have a very short history of settled village life (about 40 years). According to the data of ethnobotanical investigation, 118 species of medicinal plants belonging to 57 families and 98 genera used by Lahu healers have been inventoried. The characteristics of medicinal plants coming from a great number of families and genera relate to the traditional life-style of the Lahu. The more common the diseases are, the more abundant the related medicinal knowledge is. The most frequently used parts of medicinal plants are the leaf (35.22%) and root (32.08%). The disappearance of environments related to the traditional life-style of the Lahu threatens the existence of their traditional medicinal knowledge, similar to threats facing many other traditional medicines. Collection and inventory should be essential research fields in studies of traditional medicine.
4255271|The genus Cucurbita consists of about thirteen species or species groups. "Squashes" have been domesticated independently from five of these thirteen taxa. The wild ancestor for one domesticated squash was identified in the 1930's, ancestors for two others were determined in the 1980's, but the wild ancestors of the other two domesticates remain unknown.
4254983|Coastal peoples of China are consumers of seaweeds, which rank as favored "vegetables" and are introduced into several kinds of cooking methods in the same way that westerners might use onions (raw, fried, steamed, boiled, used alone, or mixed with other vegetables). Descriptions for preparation of 24 species are provided; a table gives the names of all species known to be used as food in China at this time. Although thousands of workers are involved in growing the seaweed crops of the brown alga Laminaria and the red alga Porphyra, many thousands more become part of the total activity of gathering the 74 species in 36 genera that form an important part of the Chinese diet. These numbers of species of edible algae are larger than those reported for any ethnic group in the world. This report is the first comprehensive one to appear in the west on seaweeds as food in China.
4255967| The results of ethnobotanical fieldwork among two Yanomami communities are presented, and the knowledge of medicinal plants and fungi among those communities is discussed in the light of recent evidence that the Yanomami possess, contrary to previous assumptions, an extensive pharmacopoeia. In addition to the 113 species already known to be used by the group, a further 85 species are documented. Twenty-three species are named and discussed in detail. Considerable overlap is found between the uses of medicinal species by the upland Yanomami and those of the lowland Yanomami, but considerable differences are also apparent. The new data raise the currently recorded total to a level comparable with or greater than that recorded among other Amazonian indigenous peoples. Many of these plants are used in the same way by other indigenous and non-indigenous groups, supporting the hypothesis that their use is based on pharmacological activity. The origins and significance of this knowledge are discussed, with particular reference to the use of plants in the treatment of malaria. /// Apresentam-se os resultados da pesquisa de campo sobre etnobotnica entre duas comunidades yanomami. Descreve-se o conhecimento de plantas e fungos medicinais dessas comunidades  luz de dados recentes segundo os quais os Yanomami, ao contrrio do que se supunha, possuem uma vasta farmacopia. Alm das 113 espcies que j se sabia serem utilizadas pelo grupo, foram documentadas mais 85. Vinte e trs espcies so identificadas pelo nome e discutidas em detalhe. H uma grande sobreposio na maneira como as espcies medicinais so usadas pelos Yanomami da serra e pelos da plancie, mas tambm existem diferenas significativas. Os novos dados elevam o total registrado a um nvel comparvel ou maior do que o documentado para outros povos indgenas da Amaznia. Muitas dessas plantas so usadas do mesmo modo que outros grupos indgenas e no indgenas, o que vem dar suporte  hiptese de que sua utilizao se baseia numa atividade farmacolgica. Discutem-se as origens e o significado desse conhecimento, com especial ateno para o uso de plantas no tratamento de malria. 
4254427|In ancient Samoa, Cordyline roots were prepared for use as a candy and a sweetening agent by baking in large buried stone ovens for several days. In a modern attempt to duplicate this ancient technology, Cordyline terminalis roots collected in the mountains of Upolu, Western Samoa, were baked in both a modern propane oven and in an oven or umu prepared in the traditional manner. The success of this attempt is described, together with its significance for ethnobotanical and archaeological studies in Samoa.
4257113|Two species, Canarium salomonense B. L. Burtt and C. indicum L. were formerly used by Solomon Islands cultures as principal sources of food (seeds), resin, and wood as well as a variety of ceremonial activities. Although the species are botanically quite similar, Babatana and Ririo speakers from Lauru (Choiseul) Island consider C. salomonense superior for many uses, particularly in activities of special spiritual significance. Ethnographic interviews were used to quantitatively evaluate hypotheses about community perceptions of differences between the species. Weighted and unweighted evaluations were made within emic activity categories based upon frequency of interaction with Canarium and importance of species selectivity within the interaction activity. No significant difference was found between the species based upon unweighted frequency of use within activity categories. However, C. salomonese is significantly more important for use in activities when its relative cultural importance was used to weight the comparison. This example supports a broad conclusion that importance of a species to a culture is more complex than its simple usefulness.
4253729|Briza humilis Bieb., a low seed-yielding member of the family Gramineae, showed agronomic promise as a commercial source of galactolipids. The seed lipid contains about 80% galactolipids, compared to little, if any, in other evaluated species of Briza. An obligate winter annual, B. humilis is a small, noncompetitive grass with good seed retention. Seed (caryopsis) yields ranged from 280 to 1,474 kg/ha. Clean threshing of the light-weight seed (0.5 g/1,000) proved difficult. Because yield and plant size varied, agronomic improvement should be possible.
4287868|These fibres, obtained from the leaves of agaves, Manila hemp, New Zealand flax and various bromeliads, are important in the manufacture of cordage and of coarse textiles.
41242925|The Selva Pascuala mural, a work of post-Paleolithic rock art in Spain, contains fungoid figures herein hypothesized to depict neurotropic fungi, especially Psilocybe hispanica, a species that occurs in a neighboring region. This hypothesis is based on features of these figures related to fungal morphology, along with ethnographic analogy, and shamanistic explanations of rock art. If correct, this interpretation would support inference of prehistoric utilization of this fungus in the region. The mural represents the first direct evidence for possible ritual use of Psilocybe in prehistoric Europe. El panel de Selva Pascuala (Villar del Humo, Cuenca, Espaa) conserva pinturas rupestres de cronologia postpaleoltica entre las que se incluyen figuras con apariencia de seta, para las que aqui planteamos la hiptesis de que representan setas de efectos neurotrpicos, en concreto Psilocybe hispanica, una especie que crece en regiones prximas. Esta hiptesis se basa en las caractersticas de estas figuras en comparacin con la morfologa de dichas setas, a lo que se aade la analoga etnogrfica y la teora del chamanismo aplicada al arte rupestre. Si estamos en lo cierto, esta interpretacin apoyara la posible utilizacin regional de estas setas durante la Prehistoria. El panel supone la primera evidencia directa del posible uso ritual de Psilocybe en la Prehistoria europea.
4255646| Astrocaryum standleyanum is a multipurpose palm native to Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Western Colombia and Western Ecuador. In Ecuador fruits are consumed locally and fibers from young leaves are used commercially for hats, hammocks, mats and furniture. Harvest, manufacture and trade are centered around Calceta in the province of Manab. Leaves are harvested in a non-destructive way, using chisels mounted on long bamboo poles. This harvest technique may replace present destructive harvest of leaves from other palm species. Preparation of the fibers (each fiber corresponds to half a pinna) involves: 1. Removal of mid veins and spines from the pinnae; 2. Boiling; 3. Drying and bleaching in the sun; 4. Further bleaching with sulphur; and 5. Cutting fibers into equal width. Following this fibers are braided into bands, from which hats, mats and furniture are made. Astrocaryum standleyanum is commonly maintained as a shade tree in agroforestry systems. Spontaneous regeneration occurs in these systems, but actual cultivation is near absent. / Astrocaryum standleyanum Bailey es una palma de usos mltiples. Es nativa de Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panam, Colombia Occidental y Ecuador Occidental. En el Ecuador las frutas son consumidas localmente y fibras de las hojas jvenes son explotadas comercialmente para sombreros, hamacas, esteras y muebles. La cosecha, la manufactura y el commercio se encuentran centrados alrededor del pueblo de Calceta en la provincia de Manab. Las hojas son cosechadas de una manera no destructiva, usando una cuchilla puesta en un palo de bamb. Esta tcnica de cosecha podra reemplazar a la cosecha destructiva de hojas de otras especies de palmas. La preparacin de las fibras (cada fibra corresponde a la mitad de una pinna) involucra: 1. Remover el nervio principal y las espinas de las pinnas; 2. Hervir las fibras en agua; 3. Secar y blanquear al sol; 4. Blanqueado adicional usando azufre; y 5. Cortar las fibras para que todas tengan el mismo ancho. Despus de esta se trenzan en cintas, y con estas se hacen sombreros, esteras y muebles. Astrocaryum standleyanum es comnmente mantenida comorbol de sombra en sistemas agroforestales. En estos sistemas se observa regeneracin espontnea, pero raras veces se cultiva la palma. 
4255970| In addition to the seeds consumed as a pseudocereal, amaranths provide important edible greens. In the Sierra Norte de Puebla, Mexico, the management and utilization of amaranths occur within a wide variety of environmental, biological and cultural contexts. This paper presents both the results of ethnobotanical exploration in this region and the comparison of different species and races of amaranths used as greens that were grown in common experimental garden plots in Chalco, Mexico. Ethnobotanical exploration, cultural practices and growth analysis suggests that these plants have been selected for their use as leafy vegetables. The experimental data support the divergence of amaranths used for greens from those used principally for edible seed. /// Los amarantos adems de proporcionar semillas para su uso como pseudocereal producen hojas comestibles. En la regin de la Sierra Norte de Puebla, la utilizacin y el manejo de los amarantos tiene lugar dentro de una enorme variedad de condiciones ambientales, biolgicas y culturales. En este trabajo se presentan los resultados obtenidos a partir de la exploracin etnobotnica realizada en la Sierra Norte de Puebla asi como los datos obtenidos a partir de un estudio de anlisis de crecimiento llevadp a cabo en Chalco. Estado de Mxico, en donde se comparan diferentes especies y razas de amaranto que se usan a manera de verdura. La exploracin etnobotnica, las prcticas culturales y el estudio de anlisis de crecimiento sugieren que estas plantas han sido seleccionadas para ser usadas como verdura y que difieren de las que se usan como grano. 
4256778| Eleven species of vine, used in the elaboration of utensils and crafts, were identified and their populations were evaluated. The most demanded species are Plukenetia penninervia Muell. Arg., Cydista aequinoctialis Miers and Monstera deliciosa Liebm. In mature rainforest and in the different successional sites, the availability of usable vine was evaluated; problems of excessive harvest were disregarded. The preferred areas of harvest were the medium and late successional sites. Four types of producers were identified: collectors, collector-artisans, artisans and those who make utensils for personal use. Two basic models of resource destination were distinguished: self-consumption and commercialization. Market value was identified in the elaboration of ornamental crafts that usually represents an economic activity, while the making of utensils reflects the cultural and social value. The main elements of the commercial chain were identified, as well as the problems in order to achieve a fair commercialization. /// Once especies de bejuco empleadas para la elaboracin de utensilios y artesanas fueron identificadas y sus poblaciones evaluadas. Plukenetia penninervia Muell. Arg., Cydista aequinoctialis Miers and Monstera deliciosa Liebm. son las especies ms demandadas. En la selva madura y en los diferentes sitios sucesionales se evalu la disponibilidad de bejuco cosechable; se descartaron problemas de cosecha excesiva. Las zonas preferidas de cosecha son las zonas de sucesin media y tarda. Se identificaron cuatro tipos de productores: colectores, colectores-artesanos, artesanos y quienes elaboran sus propios utensilios. Se distinguieron dos modelos bsicos de destino del recurso: el autoconsumo y la comercializacin. La elaboracin de artesana decorativa tiene un valor comercial, representando una actividad econmica, en cambio, la elaboracin de utensilios refleja valores culturales y sociales. Se identificaron los principales eslabones de la cadena comercial y los problemas para una comercializacin ms justa. 
4251887|The success or failure of temperate-zone plants transferred to the tropics-blackberry, Boysenberry, corn, grape, plum, raspberry, tomato, Youngberry and others have been tried-is controlled not only by disease, humidity and temperature, but also (in many cases) by the shorter day-length and absence of cold-dormancy there.
4255361| Japan, a small and mountainous country with little fossil fuel, has a variety of biomass resources that could be used to derive energy sources. Many of these resources could be obtained from currently unutilized or waste portions of other products. Important sources of biomass include woodlands, native grasslands, wastelands, and farms. Although much biomass is seasonal and difficult to handle, continued technological advances may allow utilization while at the same time improving the environment. /// Le Japon, un petit pays montagneux ayant peu de rserves nergtiques, a des resources de biomasse varies qui pourraient tre utilises comme source d'nergie. Plusieurs de ces resources peuvent tre obtenues  partir des dchts et des produits de biomasse comprennent les forts, les prairies, les terres non-arables et les fermes. Les sources de biomasse sont, en majeure partie, saisonnires et elles sont difficiles  manipuler. Toutefois, les avances technologiques continues peuvent permettre leur utilisation, et par le fait mme, l'amlioration de l'environnement. 
4255649| The essential oils of fresh leaves, twigs, and/or fruits of spicebush cultivated in Oregon (field distilled) and Delaware (laboratory distilled) are examined by GC/MS. The oil of leaves of spicebush is notably high in 6-methyl-5-hepten-2-one (1.94% in Oregon to 34.83  9.69% in Delaware). -caryophyllene (15.26% in Oregon to 48.44  1.35% in Delaware), and/or (E)-nerolidol (10.20% in Oregon to 12.05  2.02% in Delaware). The oil of the twigs of spicebush is notably high in 1,8-cineole (45.41  0.35% in Delaware), while the oil of the fruits is notably high in -phellandrene (64.62  0.66% in Delaware) and -phellandrene (11.23  0.17% in Delaware). / Los aceites esenciales de las hojas, ramitas, y frutas frescas de spicebush que estn cultivados en Oregon (destilados en el campo) y Delaware (destilados en el laboratorio) estn examinados por GCMS. El aceite de las hojas de spicebush contiene especialmente 6-methyl-5-hepten-2-one (1.94% en Oregon a 34.83  9.69% en Delaware). -caryophyllene (15.26% en Oregon a 48.44  1.35% en Delaware), y (E)-nerolidol (10.20% en Oregon a 12.05  2.02% en Delaware). El aceite de las ramitas de spicebush contiene especialmente 1,8-cineole (45.41  0.35% en Delaware). El aceite de las frutas contiene especialmente -phellandrene (64.62  0.66% en Delaware) y -phellandrene (11.23  0.17% en Delaware). 
4256777| Extraction of lechuguilla fiber (Agave lecheguilla) is often the only source of income for some rural inhabitants in arid zones of Mexico. A model for biomass estimation of lechuguilla by nondestructive techniques was developed and then applied to evaluate whether traditional harvesting had an effect on (1) biomass production of the bud (part of the plant traditionally collected to obtain fiber) and (2) plant density. Six months after harvesting, biomass production was higher for buds of harvested plants than for buds of unharvested plants, but there were no differences 1 year after harvesting. Number of new plants was not affected by harvesting. Hence it appears that at least in the short term the common practice for extracting lechuguilla fiber does not affect population density, but significantly increases growth of central buds. /// La extraccin de la fibra de lechuguilla (Agave lecheguilla) es frecuentemente la nica fuente de ingresos para algunos campesinos de las zonas ridas de Mxico. Se desarroll un modelo para la estimacin de biomasa de lechuguilla por mtodos no-destructivos. ste fue despus aplicado para evaluar si la forma tradicional de cosecha tiene un efecto en (1) produccin de biomasa del cogollo (parte de la planta tradicionalmente cosechado para obtener fibra) y (2) densidad de plantas. Dentro de los primeros 6 meses posteriores a la cosecha la produccin de biomasa fue mayor para los cogollos de las plantas cosechadas que para aquellos de las plantas control, sin embargo no se encontr diferencia un ao posterior a la cosecha. El nmero de plantas nuevas no se vio afectado con la cosecha. En este estudio mostramos que, si bien la prctica comn de extraccin del cogollo para la obtencin de fibra no afect la densidad de la poblacin de lechuguilla en el corto plazo, s increment significativamente el crecimiento del cogollo. 
40686785|This paper uses an indices method based on participant ranking of species to quantify use-values of Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFPs) and the socio-economic factors that influence these values for people living around the Pendjari Biosphere Reserve in Benin. There were 76 species identified that had a high index value to people. The 10 most valued species were Parkia biglobosa, Adansonia digitata, Vitellaria paradoxa, Tamarindus indica, Lannea microcarpa, Vitex doniana, Hibiscus asper, Melochia corchonrifolia, Khaya senegalensis, and Diospyros mespiliformis. Species values were influenced by the vegetative form of the species as well as by the gender of a participant and his/her affiliation to the ethnic group. The study also illustrates that women had a preference for NTFP species with high commercial and nutritional values, while men preferred plants that provide construction material and medicine. Moreover, the ethnic group that historically had more contact and interaction with the vegetation valued NTFPs more than any other group. The difference in value attributed to species by people was also driven by the vertical transmission of ethnobotanical knowledge in the study area. For long-term biodiversity conservation, it will be useful to involve the needs of all of the local communities in the design of a management plan and focus attention on the most important species.
4256518| Representatives from eight wild populations of Hypericum perforatum L. were collected from Montana and Northern California at flowering, and subsequently analyzed for hypericin and pseudohypericin using HPLC analysis. Total individual plant concentrations in these wild populations were from 0.0003-0.1250% dry weight (DW) hypericin and 0.0019-0.8458% DW pseudohypericin. In general, hypericin concentrations were highest in the plant's reproductive (flower and bud) tissues, followed by leaf and stem tissues, respectively. Hypericin and pseudohypericin concentrations were positively correlated in all samples, although the relative ratio of hypericin to pseudohypericin varied with site location. /// Los representantes a partir de ocho poblaciones silvestres del Hypericum perforatum L. fueron recogidos de Montana y de California nortea en el florecimiento, y analizados posteriormente para el hypericin y el pseudohypericin usando anlisis del HPLC. Las concentraciones totales de la planta individual en estas poblaciones silvestres eran a partir de 0,0003-0,1250% peso seco hypericin y 0,0019-0,8458% peso seco pseudohypericin. En general, las concentraciones del hypericin eran las ms altas de los tejidos reproductivos de la planta (flor y capullos), seguidos por la hoja y los tejidos del tallo, respectivamente. Las concentraciones de Hypericin y del pseudohypericin fueron correlacionadas positivamente en todas las muestras, aunque la relacin relativa del hypericin al pseudohypericin vari con la localizacin de sitio. 
4255404| Thirty-one compounds are identified in the essential oil of Mexican bay (Litsea glaucescens var. glaucescens), which is dominated by 22.36  2.19% 1,8-cineole, 13.03  1.84% sabinene, and 10.09  0.72% terpinen-4-ol. In contrast, the oil of Greek bay (Larus nobilis) is dominated by 41.70  1.34% 1,8-cineole and 15.24  2.95% -terpinyl acetate. The yield of oil from Mexican bay leaves is about one quarter that of Greek bay. Mexican bay adds a bay-like note but is not a substitute for Greek bay. Pinocarvone and (E)-pinocarveol are reported for the first time in the essential oil of L. nobilis. /// Trienta y uno componentes estn identificados en el aceite esencial de las hojas de laurel mexicano (Litsea glaucescens var. glaucescens) que est dominado por cineol (10,09  0,72%) y terpinen-4-ol (10,09  0,72%). Al contrario, el aceite esencial de las hojas de laurel griego (Laurus nobilis) est dominado por cineol (14,70  1,34%) y el acetato de -terpineol (15,24  2,95%). El rendimiento de aceite de las hojas de laurel mexicano es casi una cuarta parte del rendimiento de laurel griego. El laurel mexicano suma una nota de hojas de laurel pero no es un sustituto para el laurel griego. Pinocarvona y (E)-pinocarveol estn anunciados por primera vez en el aceite esencial de L. nobilis. 
4255598| With more and more Latin Americans emigrating to the United States, their favorite foods are being imported to meet the demand that has arisen here. Two popular vegetables, especially of Guatemala and El Salvador, owe part of their popularity to their sedative effect. If eaten in sufficient quantity, they induce a deep, relaxing sleep. Prominent in these two countries is the tree called pito (Erythrina berteroana) (Fabaceae), the flowers and tender young shoots of which are sold in large quantity, fresh or frozen. The tree is exceedingly common because it is planted widely, both as a living fence and windbreak. Chipilin (Crotalaria longirostrata) of the same family, is valued for its young leaves and shoots, cooked and eaten as "greens" and also combined with beans, chopped meat or scrambled eggs. Chemical analyses show that the foliage is rich in calcium, iron, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin and ascorbic acid. The seeds and roots of the plant are undeniably toxic. / Con la creciente emigracion de los Latino Americanos hacia los Estados Unidos, sus alimentos favoritos son importados para satisfacer la demanda que surgio aqu. Dos vegetales populares, especialmente en Guatemala y en El Salvador deben su popularidad en parte a su efecto somnifero. Cuando se consumen en cantidad apreciable inducen sueo profundo y relajante. Prominente en estos dos paises es el arbol llamado pito (Erythrina berteroana) (Fabaceae). Las flores y las tiernas brotes son vendidas en cantidades grandes en forma fresca o congelado. El arbol es mury comun por estar sembrado como cerca o rompe viento. El chipilin (Crotalaria longirostrata), de la misma familia, est apreciado por sus hojas y brotes, cocidos y consumidos como verduras o mezclados con frijoles, carne molida o huevos revueltos. Analisis quimico indica que el follaje es rico en calcio, hierro, tiamina, riboflavina, niacina, y cido ascorbico. Las semillas y las races de la planta son indubitablemente txicos. 
4287934| Sir Henry Wickham achieved fame through his rle in the introduction of the Brazilian Hevea rubber tree into Indonesia. Here is the story of another Brazilian tree of possible economic value which he and others endeavored to exploit but which has become an almost forgotten source of edible fats. 
4257085|Morphometric analysis, the study of measurements of size and shape, has the potential to be an effective tool for phytolith analysis. This study reports the first attempt to apply the methodology to oats. In particular, this study was designed to determine if morphometric analysis could adequately discriminate between phytoliths produced in the inflorescence bracts of two species of oats, Avena sativa L. and Avena strigosa Schreb. Results indicate that while the taxa produce the same types of phytoliths, those phytoliths have significantly different measurements of size and shape. This suggests the technique has the potential to become a powerful research tool for investigators working in the wide variety of disciplines that utilize phytolith analysis.
4255246| Effects of storage were tested on germination of Dioscorea composita (Dioscoreaceae) seeds. Freshly collected seeds and seeds stored at 25C in paper bags from 1 to 11 mo or for 4 and 5 yr were used in most of the experiments. Seeds were tested for germination at 20, 25, 30, 35, 25-20, 25-30, and 25-35C in white light and in darkness. Initiation of germination was delayed in freshly harvested seeds, and dormancy was reduced in seeds stored for about 9 mo. Viability of the seeds decreased after 4 and 5 yr of storage. /// Os efeitos do armazenamento foram verificados na germinao de sementes de Dioscorea composita. Sementes recm-coletadas e outras armazenadas, de 1 a 11 meses ou de 4 e 5 anos, em sacos de papel at 25C eram usadas nos testes. A germinao era testada, em condies de luz branca e escuro nas temperaturas de 20, 25, 30, 35, 25-20, 25-30, e 25-35C. O incio da germinao era mais tardio para sementes recm-coletadas. A dormncia era reduzida com sementes armazenadas por 9 meses. A viabilidade das sementes diminuia aps armazenamento por 4 ou 5 anos. 
40686814|An ethnobotanical study with phytochemical analyses was undertaken to examine the medicinal plants used by residents of a small rural community in northeastern Brazil. The present work tested two ideas that attempt to explain the inclusion and selection of medicinal plants in a given culture: the diversification hypothesis and the concept of versatility. The study involved 101 people and used semistructured interviews. A total of 61 plants were selected, including 25 exotic and 36 native species. Plants were classified according to their habit and analyzed for their phytochemical components. In addition, the relative importance (Rl) of these plants was calculated, and a chemical diversity index (CDI) was created and applied to each of the species. Exotic and native plants were found to have significantly different occurrences of certain classes of compounds; this result supports the diversification hypothesis. It was therefore concluded that exotic plants are included in traditional pharmacopoeias to fill therapeutic vacancies that native plants cannot satisfy.
4287778|Integrated achievements of plant breeders, soil scientists, agricultural engineers and refrigeration specialists, along with increased market demands, have raised the American lettuce industry from a $6 million business in 1918 to one of $108 million in 1949.
4287964|Cycads are used mainly as sources of food starch, particularly during periods of shortage of regular supplies. Aside from the use as food, some species are used as decorative plants, as minor sources of gums, fibers, and possibly oils. This work reviews most of the scattered literature on the uses of seven of the nine genera of the Cycadaceae, excluding Zamia and Ceratozamia.
4255688| The Babassu palm is a very important forest resource for over 300 000 families in Maranho State, Northeastern Brazil. The rudimentary nature of the babassu kernel extraction process employed by the peasantry has been blamed for being one of the key factors of the crisis in the babassu oil industry economy. This paper provides the results of the use of a new model for sustainable exploitation of babassu palm forests and integral fruit processing at the village and farm-level. The new model includes the coordination of fruit collection and storage, and the gradual replacement of the traditional system of manual breaking by mechanized integral processing at local level. The machinery consists of a dehusking machine (to separate epicarp and mesocarp), a breaking machine (to crack the dehusked fruits), and a machine to separate the small pieces of broken endocarp from the kernels. The preliminary results arising from the application of the new model are shown and discussed. / A palmeira babau constitue um recurso natural de extrema importncia para cerca de 300 000 famlias no Estado do Maranho, Nordeste do Brasil, que dependem da coleta e quebra dos frutos para subsistncia. O carter rudimentar do processo de extrao das amndoas empregado pelas quebradeiras, tem sido apontado como um dos fatores da crise na economia do babau. Este trabalho relata os resultados da aplicao de um novo modelo para a explorao sustentvel dos babauais e aproveitamento integral do fruto  nvel de fazendas e comunidades rurais. O novo modelo inicia com a coleta e estocagem sistematizada dos frutos, tornando-as mais organizada e, consequentemente, mais produtiva; continua com a substituio gradativa do tradicional sistema de quebra manual por um sistema mecanizado de processamento integral  nvel local. O equipamento utilizado consiste de uma mquina descascadora (para separar epicarpo e mesocarpo), uma mquina quebradeira (para quebrar os frutos descascados) e uma ltima mquina para separar os pequenos pedaos de endocarpo das amndoas. Os resultados iniciais deste trabalho so mostrados e discutidos. 
4252113|Extensive investigation has shown that khellin, an active principle obtained from this plant, is of value in treating angina pectoris and bronchial asthma.
4254393|Medicinal uses of Operculina turpethum by several groups of people are described, and linguistic evidence is used in connection with medicinal philosophies to reconstruct historic dispersal routes of the plants.
4254856|The amount of tannins present in Acacia berlandierii, A. farnesiana, A. greggii and A. rigidula, 4 common species of the southwestern United States and northern Mexico, was determined. Bark samples of the 4 species were extracted with water, 80% methanol, and 70% acetone. Of these, 70% acetone proved to be the most efficient solvent. Tannins were determined by Folin-Denis analysis for total phenolic materials, followed by precipitation with casein or hide powder. The hide-powder method was modified to facilitate handling of smaller samples. Results of tannin determination by casein and hide-powder precipitation methods gave comparable results. The amount of tannins present in leaves, bark, wood, and immature fruits of samples of these species was then determined by the same analytical methods. In most instances, bark and immature fruits had the highest percentage of tannins (5-15%) and wood was much lower (less than 1%). Leaves had intermediate values.
4253986|Analysis of 54 Louisiana honey samples revealed 23 species of minor honeybee plants (pollen contribution 1-15%). These species, in order of decreasing frequency of occurrence in the honey samples, were: Gleditsia spp., honey locust and water locust; Quercus spp., oak; Vitis spp., grape; Ilex spp., holly; Fraxinus spp., ash; Nyssa spp., tupelo and black-gum; Poaceae, Grass Family; Mimosa strigillosa, mimosa; Vicia spp., vetch; Verbena spp., vervain; Castanea pumila, chinquapin; Ulmus spp., elm; Trifolium incarnatum, crimson clover; Ligustrum spp., privet; Celtis laevigata, hackberry or sugarberry; Forestiera acuminata, swamp privet; Ampelopsis spp., peppervine; Allium spp., onion, garlic, or leek; Cassia fasciculata, partridge pea; Cercis canadensis, redbud; Chenopodiaceae, Goosefoot Family; Polygonum spp., smartweed; Brunnichia ovata, eardrop vine. Pollen-type descriptions and brief plant descriptions are given for the minor honeybee flora. Trace pollen types (pollen contributions <1%) are listed.
4287860|Only four of the 22 species examined in this family displayed toxicity, as tested against chicks and/or mice.
4253306|Fruit of quince cultivars (Cydonia oblonga Mill.), collected from several sites in western Turkey, are described. Fruit characteristics are given for eight cultivars and their variation in five other cultivars is described. Distribution, nomenclature and production methods are discussed in relation to programs for collection and conservation of fruit germ plasm.
4287912|Analysis and toxicity tests of the latex obtainable from this shrub, previously not reported, are presented here.
4255497|Wasabi (Wasabia japonica) is a unique native plant and a traditional condiment crop of Japan. It is used in traditional Japanese raw fish and noodle dishes and in several modern foods for its hot taste and tangy flavor. Japanese farmers grow the crop in wet upland orchard soils for leaves, petioles and small enlarged stems, and in flooded gravel and sand fields along streams or near springs to produce whole plants and large succulent green enlarged stems. Recent studies in Japan have demonstrated numerous enzymatic and biocidal properties of the plant. This review of Japanese and other literature details the history, uses, botany, cultivars, ecological requirements, production techniques, insect pests and diseases of wasabi. / [Abstract in Chinese]
4254966|Red squill (Urginea maritima, Liliaceae) was introduced to North American agriculture during World War II. Experimental plantings were started at Ensenada, Baja California, and later moved to La Jolla, California, as a USDA Agricultural Research Service project. In 1960 ARS turned the red squill bulbs over to four private groups. Cultivation and increase of clonal germplasm were continued by the Gentry Experimental Farm, which in 1979 was joined by collaborators for more complete studies in chemistry, propagation, and marketing. Scilliroside was confirmed as the principal toxicant. A high-performance, liquid-chromatographic method for assaying the glycosides and aglycones was developed. Growth trials in southern California established the species as well adapted to the California climate. Test plantings in Arizona indicate it as successful on irrigated, well-drained soils. It is a good producer of a rodenticide and of flowers for the cut-flower trade. Our studies indicate it could be a profitable new crop on the dry-farmed grain lands of southern California.
4256578|Palm wine tapped from Elaeis guineensis provides high incomes to certain groups such as Limba tribe members and women while creating social networks among tappers, traders, and retail vendors. Income levels from palm-wine tapping were several-fold higher than the minimum daily wage in Sierra Leone during 1998. Gender differences were particularly important in the marketing of palm wine, with women dominating the retail sector whereas men served as producers and middleman. An estimated 90% of palm wine middlemen are males, whereas kiosk vendors are mostly females. A formalized gift-giving culture has developed to ensure the continuous flow of palm wine from tapper to consumer.
4287880|Mosses and liverworts, apart from peat provided by the former, have not been of significance in furnishing useful products. They are, however, of importance in the general economy of nature, and have been used in a variety of ways.
4255247| Ladakh is India's link with the exotic past. Popularly known as little Tibet or Western Tibet, Ladakh is one of the richest centres of Buddhist art and culture. It has its own deep-rooted traditions, which have been protected and practised for centuries. The present communication puts on record some of the traditional ladakhi preparations that have been used for hundreds of years. Those described are (1) beverages-chhang and gur gur cha; (2) narcotics-berzeatsink, staspakchek, techepakchiatzen, zimpating, and lingeatzish; and (3) foods-khambir, kholaq, mok mok, and thukpa. /// Le Ladakh sert de lien avec le pass exotique de L'Inde. Communment connu sous les noms du petit Tibet out Tibet de L'est, le Ladakh est l'un des centres les plus riches de l'art et de la culture Bouddhiques. Il a des traditions bien enracines, protges, et pratiques depuis des sicles. La communication prsente note quelques-unes d'entre les prparations traditionelles du Ladakh utilises depuis des centaines d'annes. Celles dont il est question ici sont (1) boissons: chhang et gur gur cha, (2) narcotiques: berzeatsink, staspakchek, techepakchiatzen, zimpating, et lingeatzish; et (3) aliments: khambir, kholak, mok mok, et thukpa. 
4255525| Various "wild carrots" of the family Apiaceae have been mentioned in ethnographic and ethnobotanical literature that noted their dietary and medicinal roles among indigenous cultures of the Pacific Northwest. Despite earlier uncertainty, it is evident now that the edible "wild carrot," as known and used by North Wakashan peoples of British Columbia and their Kitasoo and Nuxalkmc neighbours, is hemlock-parsley, Conioselinum pacificum (Wats.) Coult. & Rose (Apiaceae). I suggest that Lomatium utriculatum (Nutt. ex Torr. & Gray) Coult. & Rose (spring gold, common lomatium) is the inedible counterpart of the coastal "wild carrot" as recognized among the Kwakwaka'wakw. Another inedible "wild carrot," likely Zigadenus venenosus Wats. (death camas), formerly recognized and named by at least one Upper North Wakashan group, the Hanaksiala, was avoided because of its toxicity. / Varias "zanahorias silvestres" de la familia Apiaceae han sido mencionadas en literatura etnogrfica y etnobot'anica que notaron su rol en la dieta y en la medicina de culturas indgenas del la costa N.D. del Pacfico. Luego de una incertidumbra inicial, ahora se sabe que la "zanahoria silvestre" comestible, tal como es conocida y usada por gente de North Wakashan en British Columbia y sus vecinos de Kitasoo y Nuxalkmc, as "hemlock-parsley," Conioselinum pacificum (Wats.) Coult. & Rose (Apiaceae). Se sugiere que Lomatium utriculatum (Nutt. ex Torr. & Gray) Coult. & Rose (oro de la primavery, lomatium comn) representa la contraparte no comestible de la "zanahoria silvestre" costera, tal como se reconoce entre los Kwakwaka'wakw. Otra "zanahoria silvestre" no comestible, probablemente Zigadenus venenosus Wats. ("camas de la muerte"), originalmente fue reconocida y denominada nicamente por un grupo de North Wakashan superior, al menos, los Hanaksiala, y fue evitada debido a su toxicidad. 
4287940|The region around Lake Yojoa, Honduras' principal lake, is an area below the highlands level but still reasonably cool. This lacustrine area and adjacent mountain slopes demonstrate what may happen to an isolated tropical region when it is "opened" by providing a good and rapid means of transportation.
4253585|The objectives of this research were to observe plant response to vegetable oil sprays and to learn if vegetable oils - sunflower, soybean, linseed, or camelina - can replace petroleum oil as an herbicide adjuvant. Vegetable oils were sprayed on grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench.] and sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) at 47 L/ha and were neither harmful nor beneficial to the crops. When used as an adjuvant postemergence with 1.68 kg/ha of atrazine [2-chloro-4-(ethylamino)-6-(isopropylamino)-s-triazine], 2.3 L/ha of vegetable oil were as effective in weed control as either 2.3 or 9.4 L/ha of petroleum oil. All atrazine treatments gave complete control of dicotyledonous weeds. But vegetable oil adjuvants with atrazine at 1.68 kg/ha gave significantly more grass weed control than atrazine alone at 2.24 kg/ha in two of five trials and were equally good in the other trials. The cost of the adjuvant is less than that of the atrazine replaced, and the initial herbicide residue in the soil is reduced by 25%.
4255572| The Pacaya Palm (Chamaedorea tepejilote; Arecaceae), a common tropical forest palm occurring from Mexico to Colombia, bears a male inflorescence that is edible when immature. Pacaya, a traditional food in Guatemala and adjoining countries, is preserved and exported in small quantities to the United States and Canada. Production in Guatemala comes largely from cultivated domesticated palms selected for the larger size of the male inflorescence. This palm also is a source of palm heart, and of leaves for floral arrangements and is grown as an ornamental. Pacaya is an excellent crop for small farmers who would benefit from its development through an increase in export markets. / La palma de pacaya (Chamaedorea tepejilote), una planta de bosque comn que se encuentra desde Mxico hasta Colombia, posee una inflorescencia masculina comestible. La pacaya es una comida tradicional en Guatemala y pases vecinos, es conservada y en pequeas cantidades exportada a los Estados Unidos y Canad. La produccin en Guatemala proviene mayormente de plantas domesticadas cultivadas que han sido seleccionadas por el tamao ms largo de la inflorescencia masculina. Esta palma es tambin un recurso de mdula comestible (corazn de palma), sus hojas utilizadas para arreglos florales y crece como ornamental. La pacaya es un excelente cultivo para pequeos productores que se beneficiarian en su desarrollo a travs de un incremento de los mercados de exportacin. 
4255409| Tubers of Cyperus esculentus (tiger nuts) and C. rotundus were used in the ancient eastern Mediterranean as food, perfume and medicine. Tiger nuts that were consumed in Egypt, either boiled in beer, roasted or as sweets made of ground tubers with honey, were found in tombs from the 4th millennium B.C. to the 5th century A.D. C. rotundus tubers, a dietary staple in a Stone Age Egyptian community, were used much later in perfumes and medicine by the Egyptians, Mycenaeans and Greeks, and recorded by Theophrastus, Pliny and Dioscorides. An Egyptian preparation made of Cyperus tubers, other plant ingredients, honey and wine, described by Dioscorides, is similar to one in the Ebers papyri, demonstrating its continuity over 1600 years. Cyperus perfumes are mentioned in Mycenaean documents and by classical authors. Classical authors' views on weeds, and whether C. rotundus is described as a weed by Dioscorides, are reviewed. The domestication of C. esculentus, and the evolution of both nutsedges towards weeds are discussed. /// Les tubercules de C. esculentus (amandes de terre) et C. rotundus ont t utiliss depuis l'antiquit en Mditerrane orientale dans le prparation d'aliments, de parfums et en mdecine. Des amandes de terre, consommes en Egypte, bouillies dans de la bire, ou rties et comme friandises, hches au miel, ont t dcouvertes dans des tombes datant du 4e millenaire av. J.C. Les tubercules de C. rotundus, aliment de base dans une communaut palolithique en Egypte, ont t utiliss beacoup plus tard dans la prparation de parfums et en mdecine par les Egyptiens, les Mycnniens et les Grecs. Thophraste, Pline et Dioscoride les mentionnent. Un plat gyptien dcrit par Dioscoride et compos de tubercules de Cyperus, de miel, de vin et d'autres ingredients vgtaux se trouve tre similaire a une recette des papyrus d'Ebers. Ceci met en vidence l'utilisation continue du Cyperus pendant 1600 ans. Des documents mycniens et des auteurs classiques le citent. Nous rapportons les connaissances des auteurs classiques sur les mauvaises herbes el la classification, par Dioscoride, de C. rotundus parmi les mauvaises herbes. Nous discutons de la domestication de C. esculentus et de l'volution des deux souchets en mauvaises herbes. 
4255365| This study analyzes the regional diversity of common beans (Phaseolus vulgaris, Fabaceae) in Aguascalientes, Mexico, in relation to local physical, biological, cultural, and socioeconomic factors. A close direct relationship between bean diversity and the physical and biological factors and a close inverse relationship between bean diversity and the cultural and socioeconomic factors was found. Greater bean diversity was found in areas under rainfed conditions with low-input traditional agriculture where farmers with low income cultivate a great number of local heterogeneous landraces to insure some production for home use in spite of environmental stress conditions. Reduced bean diversity is cultivated under irrigated conditions with high-input modern agriculture where farmers with high income grow a few uniform improved cultivars to obtain high yields for commercial purposes. A previous study showed greater morphological variation in the seed collected in the 1940s compared to that collected in 1984. The bean variants of 1984 showed significantly earlier maturation. These findings suggest the necessity of periodic studies for a better understanding of the dynamic process of evolution of beans under continuous ecological, cultural, and socioeconomic change. /// El presente estudio analiza la diversidad regional del frijol comn (Phaseolus vulgaris, Fabaceae) en Aguascalientes, Mxico, en relacin con las condiciones locales del medio fsico, biolgico, cultural y socioeconmico. Se encontr una relacin directa estrecha entre la diversidad del plasma germinal de frijol y las condiciones del medio fsico y biolgico, as como, una relacin inversa estrecha entre dicha diversidad y las condiciones culturales y socioeconmicas. Se encontr mayor diversidad de plasma germinal de frijol en reas de agricultura tradicional de temporal, en donde los productores con escasos recursos econmicos cultivan un mayor nmero de variedades locales heterogneas para asegurar produccin para consumo familiar a pesar de las condiciones de tensin ambiental. Por otro lado, se cultiva poca diversidad de variedades locales en condiciones de agricultura moderna de riego con alto uso de insumos, en donde los productores de mayores recursos econmicos utilizan algunas variedades mejoradas para obtener altos rendimientos con fines comerciales. Un estudio previo mostr una mayor variacin morfolgica de la semilla colectada en la dcada de 1940, comparada con la semilla colectada en 1984. Las variantes de frijol de 1984 fueron significativamente ms precoces que las de 1940. Estos resultados sugieren la necesidad de realizar estudios peridicos para entender mejor el proceso dinmico de la evolucin del frijol bajo el efecto de los cambios contnuos de las condiciones ecolgicas, culturales y socioeconmicas. 
4256867| Ditaxis heterantha Zucc. (azafrn de bolita), a plant of the Euphorbiaceae family, grows wild in the semiarid regions of Mexico. Its seeds are used by the inhabitants of the regions where it grows to give color and to enhance the flavor of food. It has been recently cultivated locally, however, the plant has not been cultivated extensively, and it is considered that this crop could have an economic potential. The purpose of this work is to validate the reported geographical distribution of the plant and its chemical composition. The endosperm of the seeds has an intense yellow color, indicating the presence of pigments of the carotenoid family. The pigment was extracted using hexane, and seven fractions were obtained by HPLC. The spectra of the fractions produce three maxima,
4255812| Mulberry trees in Northern Utah were located by historical references to local sericulture and by examining vegetation in proximity to pioneer-era two-story houses. It was usually in the upstairs bedrooms of these larger homes where silkworms were raised, and many of these houses planted one or two mulberry trees in their yards. Although mulberry planting and sericulture were once advocated by early Mormon leaders as a means to achieve economic self-sufficiency, ultimately this social and economic experiment failed, leaving relic mulberry groves dotted throughout Utah. Most of these groves have now disappeared in the wake of urban expansion. Preservation of a few relic trees is proposed as a means of preserving cultural ties to the past. /// Les rfrences  la sriculture dans les histoires locales et l'analyse de la vgtation prs des maisons  deux tages de l'poque des pionniers rvlent l'existence des mriers dans le nord de l'Utah. C'tait d'ordinaire au premier tage des grandes maisons qu'on levait des vers  soie et dans les cours de ces maisons qu'on plantait des mriers. Pour arriver  l'indpendance conomique, les dirigeants mormons de l'poque recommandaient la culture des mriers et la production de la soie, projets qui finirent par chouer laissant ici et l dans l'Utah les restes d'anciens bosquets de mriers dont la plupart sont disparus dans le sillage du dveloppement urbain. On propose la conservation de ces arbres pour sauvegarder des liens culturels avec le pass. 
4254504|Information on 69 species and 66 prescriptions for therapeutic doses are given and medicinal applications of each species are presented. Popular names, empirical properties and manner of using prescriptions are described. The putative plant remedies are not evaluated nor are any chemical principles identified.
4253417|Some Mexican cacti of the genera Ariocarpus, Mammillaria, Obregonia, Pelecyphora, Solisia and Turbinicarpus have been studied with respect to their alkaloids and ethnobotany. Seven previously known cactus alkaloids were identified. N,N-Dimethyl-4-hydroxy-3-methoxy-phenethylamine was found to occur in Ariocarpus agavoides. In Pelecyphora aselliformis N,N-dimethyl-3-hydroxy-4,5-dimethoxy-phenethylamine was identified as the major alkaloid. The possible relationship between the vernacular names of these plants and their alkaloid content is discussed.
4256992|Indigenous people of southeastern North America drank cassina, a stimulant and emetic decoction that the colonial British termed "black drink." Though most authors cite Ilex vomitoria Ait. as the botanical source of cassina, confusion persists because some researchers identify the source as I. cassine L. To clarify the link between plant and product, the methylxanthine alkaloid contents of I. vomitoria and I. cassine were compared. Since methylxanthines (i.e., caffeine, theobromine, and theophylline) have pharmacological properties congruent with the recorded effects of cassina consumption, the alkaloids provide a chemical basis for the evaluation of both taxa as sources of the beverage. Methylxanthine levels are higher in I. vomitoria than in I. cassine, and the principal alkaloid of the former is caffeine. Based on its alkaloid content, I. vomitoria is the best-supported candidate source of cassina.
25568896|Extensive monovarietal cultivation of Agave tequilana Weber var. azul is threatening the diversity of the germplasm used in traditional Agave spirits production in west-central Mexico. To promote the preservation, use, and management of this germplasm, an ethnobotanical and morphological study was done in the center and south of the state of Jalisco, Mexico. The richness, distribution, and morphological variation of wild and cultivated Agave populations were characterized, and producers' roles in germplasm maintenance and diversification were analyzed. Results indicated that: 1) A. angustifolia and A. rhodacantha are the primary gene pools used for selection; 2) Traditional landraces are differentiated morphological entities; and 3) In situ maintenance and increase of Agave germplasm diversity are the result of constant selection of wild germplasm, producer management of populations in the wild-domesticated gradient, and preservation of old landraces. Preservation of Agave germplasm diversity in west-central Mexico requires increased cultivation and valuation of traditional landraces. /// El cultivo extensivo de A. tequilana Weber var. azul amenaza la diversidad del germoplasma de Agave utilizado en la produccin tradicional de bebidas destiladas en el centro-occidente de Mxico. Para promover su conservacin, uso y manejo realizamos un estudio etnobotnico y morfolgico en el centro y sur de Jalisco. Caracterizamos la riqueza, distribucin y variacin morfolgica de poblaciones silvestres y cultivadas de Agave y analizamos el papel de los campesinos en el mantenimiento y diversificacin del germoplasma. Encontramos que: 1) A. angustifolia y A. rhodacantha son los acervos primarios de seleccin; 2) Los cultivares tradicionales son entidades morfolgicas diferenciadas; y 3) El mantenimiento in situ y diversificacin es resultado de la seleccin constante de germoplasma silvestre, manejo campesino de poblaciones del gradiente silvestre-domesticado y conservacin de cultivares antiguos. Para conservar la diversidad del germoplasma de Agave en el centro-occidente de Mxico se requiere incrementar la valoracin y cultivo de los cultivares tradicionales.
4255938|Plant remains in the Arawe Islands were found preserved in waterlogged beach sediments. Remnants of edible fruit and wild nuts were found together with Lapita pottery, stone artifacts, and other evidence of human settlement. Previous discoveries of fruit and nut remains in Lapita pottery sites have been interpreted as evidence for an arboricultural complex based on a variety of tree species. Here we report direct evidence for plant use, but are unable to recognise any particular system of plant cultivation or harvest. All the genera and species recognised in the Arawe plant remains are known to enter modern beach drift by natural processes, from wild and cultivated sources. The archaeological assemblages pose intriguing problems for interpreting the history of plant use and domestication. / [Abstract in Chinese]
4255920| Pollen, the male gametophyte of flowering plants, is a high energy material, which is collected by insects and stored as food reserve. Pollen has been used traditionally by humans for religious purposes and as supplementary food. Pollen is a concentrated, energy and vitamin rich food that in contemporary times is not only consumed as a dietary component, but also is used in alternative medical treatments. Pollen has potential importance as a supplementary and survival food, and for conditioning of athletes. Pollen has been used medically in prostatitis, bleeding stomach ulcers and some infectious diseases, although such use has been questioned by the medical profession. Pollen may also be used for treatment and prevention of the high-altitude-sickness syndrome. Because some individuals are allergic to pollen, and various pollen species contain specific allergens, individual sensitivities must be tested before pollen is used as a treatment or as a supplementary food. /// Der Pollen ist ein energiereiches Material, das nicht nur von Insekten gesammelt und als Reservestoff gelagert wird, sondern er wird auch vom Menschen seit prhistorischen Zeiten als Zusatznahrung und zu religisen Zwecken verwendet. Die chemische Zusammensetzung zeigt den Pollen als konzentriertes, energie- und vitaminreiches Nahrungsmittel, das heute nicht nur als zustzliche Ditkomponente Verwendung findet, sondern auch in der alternativen Heilkunde als wirksames Heilmittel gilt. In der Zukunft wird Pollen daher als Zusatznahrungsmittel weiter an Bedeutung gewinnen. Er findet Anwendung beim berlebenstraining und als Zusatznahrung fr Athleten bei der Wettkampfvorbereitung. Obwohl in der Schulmedizin gewisse Vorbehalte bestehen, wird Pollen auch als Heilmittel verabreicht, so zum Beispiel bei Prostataentzndung, blutenden Magengeschwren sowie bei einigen Infektionskrankheiten. Pollen wird erfolgreich zur Verhtung und Behandlung von Hhenkrankheiten genutzt. Da ein Teil der menschlichen Bevlkerung allergisch gegenber Pollen reagiert und die verschiedenen Pollenarten spezifische Allergene enthalten knnen, mu vor der Verwendung von Pollen als Lebens- oder Heilmittel die allergische Empfindlichkeit der Pollenkonsumenten getestet werden. 
41408240|Canna discolor Lindl. (Cannaceae), commonly known as edible canna, is often cultivated in Southeastern Asia for its starchy rhizomes. Based on morphological and karyological features, it is thought to be an allotriploid plant originated from hybridization between the closely allied C. coccinea Mill., C. patens Roscoe, C. plurituberosa T. Koyama & Nb. Tanaka, C. speciosa Roscoe, or C. indica L. In this study, to clarify the origin of triploid edible canna, physical mapping of 5S and 18S rDNA probes in C. discolor and its closely related five putative parental species was conducted. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) technique provided a useful chromosomal marker for discriminating among the diploid putative parental Canna species, and supported the hybrid origin of C discolor between G indica var. indica and G plurituberosa. / /7(1)7"./71 L /7'/? llhn Q. 7"./7 ?t/7~ l;fh u Q C. discolor(2n=27)fi:t;-C ibQ~ ~ h t::.. :(1):JoJ: Vt; C. discolorlC. indica ~4 (c. patens, C. pritubero C. specio C. coccinea)  -C ibQ ~It   :-h TQ Ih 5SV18S ribosomal RNA . FISHt; C. discolorl C. indica (1)(2n) ~ C. plurituberosa  (n) (1)?ibQ~ t; hQ.
4253958|A cultivated, usually sterile species of Pandanus, found rather widely in Malesia (especially in W. Indonesia, Malaya, and the Philippines, but also known in Ceylon), commonly used in cooking, e.g., to flavour rice and jellies, has been called in the past by several different scientific names, and indeed two distinct species were thought to exist. A review of this problem and a study of the plants as they occur in Malaysia, Singapore, and Ceylon, has revealed that in fact only one species is involved; that the 'large' and the 'small' forms hitherto referred to the two species are merely growth phases of the one; and that the correct botanical name for the plant is Pandanus amaryllifolius Roxb. Notes on morphology, nomenclature, and uses of the plant are appended.
4254800|Agriculture in the Southwest is productive but expensive. High yields of traditional crops depend on extensive irrigation. As water costs increase and water availability is reduced, production of traditional crops will decline. New crops with low water use (and consequently lower yields) will be needed if agriculture is to persist in the region. The best candidates will be drought-tolerant species with high value products. Plants producing botanochemicals will probably be favored over those yielding pulp, energy, commodity foods, or fiber.
4287804|The ancient land of Macedonia once had a silk industry, and mulberry trees were cultivated to feed the silk worms, but today only a remnant of the industry survives and decapitated but still living trees bear witness of their former importance.
4254707| Asclepias speciosa and A. curassavica were evaluated as potential renewable sources of chemicals for use as fuel and/or chemical feedstock. Leaves and stems of both plants were analyzed for acid-detergent fiber, acid-detergent lignin, cellulose and ash. Bomb calorimetry was performed on A. curassavica (leaves 4,590 cal/g; stems 4,219 cal/g; and latex 4,663 cal/g), and A. speciosa (leaves 4,404 cal/g; stems 4,514 cal/g; and latex 9,005 cal/g). Organic carbon in A. curassavica (leaves 41.20%; stems 41.18%; latex 48.03%) and A. speciosa (stems 45.71%; leaves 42.51%; latex 67.30%) were also determined. Major differences between the 2 plant species were in the chemical composition of the latex; A. speciosa latex contained primarily - and -amyrin and their acetates, and a small amount of rubber, while A. curassavica latex is known to contain at least 50% cardiac glycoside. 
4252109|Oats constitute an important feed grain crop in the United States and many other countries. World production in pounds averages one-third that of wheat and two-fifths that of rice or corn. The United States and Canada produce nearly half of the world crop. Oats are utilized primarily as feed for domestic animals. Although their bone- and muscle-building ingredients and other nutrient values are well known, less than five percent of the world crop is used as human food.
4253595|The term wisakon, recorded among Southeastern Algonquian Indians in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, frequently has been identified as one of several plant species. However, it appears that wisakon referred not to any particular plant species but to a general category of substances that included both plant and nonplant materials. The misunderstanding illustrates some of the problems and procedures involved in the exchange and integration of botanical information by Europeans and Indians in the early culture contact situation.
4254536|Winter wheat, Triticum aestivum, is important as both a forage and grain crop in the central and southern Great Plains of the United States. A simpler system of describing winter wheat developmental stages than those currently being used is needed. Ten key developmental stages are described: 1) germination and emergence, 2) tillering, 3) leaves strongly erect, 4) node formation, 5) boot, 6) heading, 7) flowering, 8) grain filling, 9) ripening, and 10) maturity. All stages can be visually identified in the field with a minimum of training and are important with respect to grazing management, fertilizer applications, pest control, forage yield, and grain harvesting. Often no time factors can be placed on the occurrence of these stages due to environmental and cultivar differences. A discussion of stress influences on grain and forage yield is included.
4254356|Principal components analysis of 46 chromosome knob positions and B chromosomes for 61 accessions of annual teosinte (in 12 groups) and 207 accessions of maize (in 87 groups) produced results which did not entirely agree with previous groupings. Teosintes of northwest and southeast Guatemala (races Huehuetenango and Guatemala) were widely separated from maize and from all other teosintes; however, teosintes of east Mexico-Distrito Federal (race Chalco) were also widely separated from maize and other teosintes. Teosintes of south Chihuahua (race Nobogame) grouped separately from other teosintes, suggesting that race Nobogame is not simply a northern extreme of race Central Plateau. Teosintes of east Michoacan and west Mexico (recently grouped into the Balsas race) grouped together but separately from other teosintes. The latter teosintes may merit special designation in a racial taxonomic system. Only the Central Plateau teosintes consistently overlapped with maize OTU's for the first few principal components. Even in that case there was no consistent association between the Central Plateau teosintes and any specific race of maize.
4255664|This is a study of the historic transition in Southeast Asia, in particular Borneo, from the exploitation of native forest rubbers to Para rubber (Hevea brasiliensis, Euphorbiaceae). During the second half of the nineteenth century, booming international markets subjected forest rubbers to more intensive and competitive exploitation. At the same time, the settlement patterns of tribal rubber gatherers were becoming more sedentary and their agriculture more intensive. Hevea spp. was better suited to these changed circumstances than the native forest rubbers, largely because it was cultivated not naturally grown. The status of Hevea spp. in Southeast Asia as a cultigen, as opposed to a natural forest product, and the political-economic implications of this helps to explain the contrasting histories of smallholder rubber producers in the New and Old Worlds. This study offers an historical perspective on current debates regarding relations between forest resources, forest peoples, and the state. /// Penelitian ini mempelajari sejarah peralihan di Asia Tenggara, khususnya Kalimantan, dari eksploitasi karet hutan menjadi penanaman karet Para (Hevea brasiliensis, Euphorbiaceae). Selama pertengahan kedua abad ke sembilanbelas, melonjaknya pasar internasional menyebabkan karet hutan di eksploitasi lebih intensif dan kompetitif. Pada saat yang sama, pola pemukiman pemulung-pemulung karet hutan menjadi lebih menetap dan sistem pertanian mereka menjadi lebih intensif. Penanaman Hevea spp. lebih sesuai terhadap peralihan ini dibanding dengan karet hutan, terutama karena Hevea spp. tersebut ditanam bukan tumbuh secara alami. Status Hevea spp. di Asia Tenggara sebagai suatu tanaman yang diusahakan (kultigen) yang berlawanan dengan pohon hutan alam, dan akibat ekonomi-politik untuk ini, menerangkan perbandingan sejarah pengelolahan Hevea spp. di Asia dan Amerika Selatan. Penelitian ini juga memberikan suatu pandangan sejarah pada perdebatan saat ini tentang hubungan sumberdaya hutan, suku terasing yang hidup di dalam hutan, dan kebijaksanaan pemerintah.
4254969|Pejibaye (Bactris gasipaes) was domesticated and widely used in the lowland humid neotropics during pre-Colombian times. Several research programs are underway to study and improve the species for use by farmers in ecologically suitable regions. Five breeding programs are outlined, each for a use to which the pejibaye may be put: (1) palmito (heart of palm), (2) whole fruit for human consumption, (3) flour and meal production, (4) oil production, and (5) animal ration from residues or purposefully bred varieties. Yield estimates and breeding problems are discussed. It is certain that the pejibaye can again become an important crop for the humid tropics.
4255739| Madia sativa seeds were studied for their oil content and fatty acid composition. Oil content in wild seeds was 26% w/w. The samples analyzed showed comparable fatty acid composition, with palmitic (12.9-14.0), stearic (3.8-3.9), oleic (7.9-10.2) and linoleic acid (71.4-72.4) as the major acids. The mean molecular weight of the oil ranges from 876.1 to 894.6 with saponification values of 190-194 mg and unsaturation values of 126-131. The seed meal showed a high crude protein content (28-31%). The oil composition of Madia sativa and its adaptability to poor soils, suggest considerable potential as a future oil crop. /// Se estudi el contenido de aceite y composicin de cidos grasos en semillas de Madia sativa. Las semillas silvestres contienen 26% de un aceite cuyos principales cidos grasos (%) son el palmtico (12.9-14.0), esterico (3.8-3.9), oleico (7.9-10.2) y linoleico (71.4-72.4). El peso molecular promedio del aceite vara entre 876 y 894, con un ndice de saponificacin de 190-194 mg y un ndice de insaturacin de 126-131. La harina de las semillas contiene un alto porcentaje de protena cruda (28-31%). La composicin de su aceite y la rusticidad de Madia sativa la convierten en un cultivo oleaginoso potencial. 
4288019|The best known usage of members of the mustard group is as the basis for condiment, but some of the species are important as oil seeds. The leaves are widely used as a vegetable, especially in the Far East, while in temperate agriculture mustards are extensively used as green manures, cover crops, and fodder. Oilcake residues after expressing are used as fertilizers.
4253064|Analyses of variance for 111 characters from 55 races and subraces of maize from eastern South America grown at Piracicaba, S. P., Brazil, between 1960 and 1965, indicated that those characters which were least affected by environmental factors and interactions were reproductive characters. In particular, the component of variance due to differences among races for certain ear and kernel characters was greater than the sum of the corresponding components due to differences among years and race by year interactions. The converse was true for all vegetative characters. Tassel characters tended to be intermediate between ear and plant characters. While some indices had larger components of variance attributable to racial differences than to the effects of environment and/or environmental interaction, some commonly used ones, such as cob/rachis and rachilla/kernel indices, proved to be quite susceptible to environmental influences. Again, indices based upon solely vegetative characters were consistently influenced more strongly by environmental factors and interaction than were those based on reproductive characters.
4255273|The domesticated sunflower, Helianthus annuus, is an important economic crop, yet molecular data regarding its evolution are limited. Here we review morphological, geographical, archaeological, and molecular evidence pertaining to its origin and development. New isozyme and chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) evidence is also presented. Morphological, geographical, and archaeological evidence has led to the hypothesis that the domesticated sunflower was derived from a wild/weedy form of H. annuus possibly in the Midwest. Molecular evidence was concordant with this hypothesis. A high degree of enzymatic and cpDNA sequence similarity was observed between wild and domesticated H. annuus, and domesticated H. annuus contained a subset of the alleles and cpDNAs found in wild H. annuus. The extensive polymorphism in the wild plants and the virtual monomorphism in cultivated lines for both isozyme and cpDNA phenotypes further suggest a single origin of the domesticated sunflower from a very limited gene pool. In addition, Native American varieties of the domesticated sunflower were genetically more variable than other cultivated lines, possibly indicating that they gave rise to the other cultivated stocks. Molecular evidence did not, however, allow conclusions as to the exact geographic origin of the domesticated sunflower.
41001202|Local markets unite, concentrate, maintain, and diffuse empirical knowledge about plant and animal resources and therefore help guarantee the resilience and maintenance of folk knowledge concerning useful species. A critical review is presented here that focuses on the importance of these local markets, emphasizing the diversity of medicinal products offered, the different approaches to this subject, and the evolution of the research approaches taken in studying the medicinal plant products sold. To this end, the scientific literature was examined for research on these markets so as to provide a panoramic view of the different approaches taken, the diversity of plants being sold, the methodological procedures employed in collecting research information, and the specific nature of the studies. From our point of view, it is necessary to intensify the ethnobotanical and ethnopharmacological investigation of these markets, especially with comparable methods and techniques. Os mercados tradicionais so importantes por reunir, concentrar, manter e difundir o saber emprico sobre a diversidade de recursos tanto da fauna como da flora, sendo fontes imprescindveis para a resilincia e manuteno do conhecimento acerca dessas espcies medicinis. Essa proposta de reviso crtica enfocou a importancia desses centros de compras, assaltando a diversidade de produtos ofertados, os diferentes enfoques das pesquisas realizadas e a evoluo das abordagens ao estudar os produtos vegetis comercializados nos mercados. Dessa forma, realizou-se urna busca em peridicos para evidenciar o desenvolvimento das pesquisas com mercados intencionando-se urna viso panormica das diferentes abordagens utilizadas. Sobre isso, foram abordados: a diversidade vegetal comercializada, as partes vegetais mais encontradas nos mercados, bem como os procedimentos metodolgicos para coleta de informaes e a natureza desses estudos. A partir das anlises realizadas, recomendaes foram sugeridas para futuras pesquisas em mercados tradicionais: a realizao de inventrios locais sobre espcies teis associado a comparaes com informaes j existentes.
4255016|Coleus barbatus (C. forskohlii) is used medicinally in Africa, Arabia, and Brazil. The root tubers of the plant are prepared and eaten as a condiment in India. Other Indian Coleus spp. are used in traditional Ayurvedic healing. Chemical studies of alcoholic extracts of the tubers of C. barbatus led to isolation of the labdane diterpene forskolin (coleonol), which has become an important research tool in studying the roles of the enzyme adenylate cyclase and cyclic-AMP in cellular physiology. The compound may eventually become a useful drug in treating hypertension, glaucoma, asthma, and certain cancers. This article summarizes the investigations of C. barbatus.
4254944|Attempts by the early colonial settlers of Barbados to plant orchards of shaddock (pummelo, Citrus grandis) from seedlings gave rise to the grapefruit (C. paradisi), an apomictic hybrid. Early botanists misidentified the grapefruit as a variety of shaddock, confusing it with a second hybrid growing on Jamaica. The botanist who first named the species, James Macfadyen, is shown here to have described the wrong fruit as a result of such misidentifications. Citrus historians of the 20th century have been unable to confirm the existence of a legendary Captain Shaddock, said to have brought the first seeds of the shaddock to Barbados. The present authors have found a basis for the legend, identifying a Captain Chaddock who traded in the West Indies in the 17th century. In addition, they have rectified the misidentifications of the grapefruit by early botanists that have confused the literature up to the present.
4254965|The palmyra palm (Borassus flabellifer), a multipurpose tree of great utility, occurs extensively in Tamil Nadu state, India. Figuring in history, literature, and folklore of the state, it is exploited for food from the fruit and tuberous seedlings; beverage and sugar from the sap; fiber from the leaf and leafbase for brushes, cordage, weaving, and plaiting; trunk wood for construction and fuel; and numerous minor products. Increasing exploitation of the palmyra threatens the future supply of palm raw materials so important to rural populations. Integrated development of palmyra products for local and export markets, as well as management/conservation measures, are needed both to maximize the economic value of the products and to assure sustained yield from native stands.
41408258|Cycads have been used for traditional purposes for centuries, mainly as a source of starch during droughts and famines. In South Africa, Encephalartos species are traded for traditional medicine (TM) in local TM markets. The 2009 IUCN Red Data assessment for South African flora lists 78% of the 37 indigenous Encephalartos species as "Threatened", with three species already "Extinct in the Wild" (EW). South African cycads face an extinction crisis, primarily due to collecting for the horticultural trade. The trade in Encephalartos for TM also has a significant impact on several species, and is largely understudied. In this paper, the trade in Encephalartos for TM was quantified in South Africa's two largest TM markets, Faraday in Johannesburg and Warwick in Durban. Harvesting of South African Encephalartos for TM involves the removal of bark strips and/or whole stem sections. Encephalartos species were sold at 26% and 13% of the stalls at Faraday and Warwick, respectively, with an estimated 9.0 metric tons traded at Warwick in 2009. Stem samples purchased in the markets were assigned to stem diameter size classes using a size class chart, and regression analysis was used to validate the allocations. Most harvesting was from sub-adult and adult cycads, and it appears that bark strips are removed from large arborescent plants, whereas smaller individuals and subterranean-stemmed species are harvested by removing the entire plant. There is generally a positive relationship between stem diameter and leaf base length as well as stem diameter and pith radius. The former can be used as a predictor of stem diameter size class for market samples that prove difficult to assign to diameter classes using the chart. Overall, this is the first study to quantify the trade in Encephalartos for TM in South Africa with reference to the size classes of the plants traded.
4287972|The "wax" of various species of Myrica is not a true wax, but a vegetable tallow extracted from the surface of the fruits. The principal use of the "wax" is for Christmas candles, but it is also used in soap, ointments, leather-polishing formulations, etching, and medicinals.
4254475|Recent research in the development of bioenergy crops for arid and semiarid regions has stressed the objective of increasing biomass productivity in order to improve energetic and economic returns. However, an examination of the constraints on arid-adapted plant species indicates that a preferable approach to biocrude feedstock development is one that emphasizes quality, rather than quantity, of biomass. This conclusion is illustrated by economic and energetic comparisons of 4 potential biocrude feedstocks. The species with the greatest economic potential are those with high biocrude contents and moderate or low annual yields.
4287884|India and Pakistan together contain over 96% of the world's acreage devoted to this crop and produce nearly 97% of the world's total supply. Two species of Corchorus are involved. The production of fibre has increased from about one million tons at the beginning of the present century to about two million tons today.
4253472|The seedless form of breadfruit, unripe and sliced or diced, can be commercially dehydrated either by tunnel-drying or by freeze-drying. The products are adaptable to various culinary vegetable uses. Wastes, such as peel, core, and culls, serve as a highly digestible stock feed. Several anatomical features of the fruit pose special problems in preparation and processing. The histology of the fruit is discussed in detail with reference to possible solutions to those problems, and to textural qualities of both the freshly cooked green fruit and of dried products upon reconstitution. Some consideration of other botanical features relevant to possible use of seeded forms of breadfruit also are presented. Development of commercial processing should include serious consideration of fruit structure and other botanical information concerning the growing and adaptability of different species to commercial processing.
4254908|The use of an ichthyotoxic legume in the genus Derris (Fabaceae) in Guadalcanal is reported. Contrasted with other traditional methods of fishing, fish poisoning with plants is a safe activity that results in small but consistent yields. Ethnotaxonomic terms for ichthyotoxic legumes and fruits in Melanesia and Polynesia are compared and discussed.
41001199|The process of selecting and saving seed is the most basic and oldest of agricultural practices. In today's modern and highly capital-intensive agriculture, seeds are often treated like another chemical input. This study sought to examine seed selection and saving practices among chile farmers in Aguascalientes, Mexico, where both industrial and traditional agriculture are practiced. We observed a clear division among farmers who plant chile peppers commercially. Sixty-eight chile pepper farmers were surveyed in order to document seed selection and saving practices. Fifteen respondents (22%) planted chile peppers destined for the fresh market and all utilized purchased commercial seed of F1 hybrid varieties. Fifty-three farmers (78%) planted chiles to be dried and either saved their own or purchased seeds that others had saved and selected. Farmers who saved their own seed sought to maintain an ideotype, rather than directionally select for certain traits, much like Cleveland et al. (2000) chronicled in central Mexican maize farmers. Farmers would benefit from a participatory plant-breeding program in order to maintain productive seed stock for the continued cultivation of dried chile pepper in the state. La seleccin y conservacin de semillas son las prcticas agrcolas ms bsicas y antiguas que ha realizado el ser humano. En la agricultura intensiva moderna, las semillas son manejadas como otro insumo de los agroqumicos. En este trabajo se estudiaron las prcticas de seleccin y conservacin de semillas entre los productores de chile en Aguascalientes, Mxico. Se observo una clara divisin entre los agricultores que cultivan chiles para el mercado en fresco y los productores de chiles secos. Se encuestaron 68 agricultores para documentar las prcticas de seleccin de semilla y las prcticas para su conservacin. Quince o veintids por ciento de los encuestados siembra chiles para el mercado fresco y todos ellos comparan y utilizan semillas comerciales de variedades hbridas F1. El 53 de los encuestados o 78% siembran chiles para el mercado en seco, y todos ellos guardan su propia semilla, o la compran con otros productores que seleccionan y mejoran su propia semilla. Los agricultores que guardan sus propias semillas tratan de mantener un ideotipo de chile en lugar de seleccionar rasgos determinados que podran mejorar y modificar sus materiales criollos, como lo reporta Cleveland y Soleri Cleveland et al. (2000) con productores de maz en Mxico. Los agricultores de Aguascalientes podran beneficiarse con un programa de mejoramiento participativo enfocado a mantener una reserva de semillas criollas mejoradas para hacer ms viable y atractivo el cultivo de chile seco en el estado.
4256517| Astrocaryum chambira Burret is a palm that provides edible fruits and fibers for making handicrafts. This study focused on the fiber products (hammocks and bags) made by the Bora in the Peruvian Amazonia. Making chambira handicrafts consists of several different phases. Handicrafts are marketed to tourists, river traders, or shopkeepers in the city of Iquitos. Villagers travel actively to sell their products because of the remote location of the village from the market. The prices received by producers were extremely low when considering the amount of work, but the prices were low also in other steps (middleman, tourist). Still, chambira works provide an important source of income for villagers. The greater abundance of A. chambira in secondary forest compared with the primary forest indicates that it has potential for agroforestry. Agroforestry systems can provide a sustainable way to use land in the rainforest areas in NE Peru, and in this system nontimber forest products may have an important role. /// Astrocaryum chambira Burret es una palma que proporciona frutas comestibles, y fibras para hacer artesanas. Este estudio se centr en los productos de la fibra (las hamacas y los bolsos) hechos por los Bora en la Amazona Peruana. La confeccin de artesanas de chambira consiste en varias fases diferentes. Las artesanas de chambira se venden a los turistas, a los vendedores mayoristas y minoristas o a los compradores que tienen una tienda de artesanas. Los habitantes de Brillo Nuevo viajan activamente para vender sus productos a pesar de la ubicacin remota del pueblo con respecto al mercado. Los precios recibidos por los productores son extremadamente bajos al considerar la cantidad de trabajo invertido, pero los precios tambin son bajos en los otros niveles de venta (intermediarios, turistas). A pesar de eso, las artesanas de chambira proporcionan una fuente importante de ingreso para los habitantes de Brillo Nuevo. La mayor abundancia de A. chambira en el bosque secundario que en el bosque primario indicara que tiene potencial para la agroforestera. El sistema de agroforestera puede proporcionar una manera sostenible de utilizacin para las reas de la selva en nordeste Peru; y los productos no maderables del bosque podran tener un papel importante en este sistema. 
4257112| The purpose of the present investigation was to compare similarities and differences in immune response among Echinacea species, which are commonly used to treat upper respiratory infections. The investigation involved two components: acquisition of immunomodulatory data reported here for the first time, and combined phenetic analysis of these data along with previous reports. Experimental data were obtained by stimulating human PBMC in vitro with extracts from Echinacea spp. and assaying production of three cytokines (interleukin-1 [IL-1], interleukin-2 [IL-2], and tumor necrosis factor- [TNF-]). Phenetic analyses were employed to compare responses across the entire data set, including UPGMA (Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean) and neighbor-joining methods. In the immune experiments conducted for this investigation, E. angustifolia, E. paradoxa, E. purpurea, E. simulata, and E. tennesseensis extracts significantly augmented IL-1  and TNF- production, whereas no extracts significantly modulated IL-2. All phenetic methods produced similar dendrograms, revealing two species pairs (E. angustifolia + E. simulata and E. pallida + E.sanguinea) where both species cluster tightly and have similar immune-response profiles. These two species-pairs are maximally dissimilar from each other. The remaining species (E. paradoxa, E. purpurea, and E. tennesseensis) occupy intermediate positions in the dendrogram. Our results suggest that Echinacea spp. act heterogeneously on immune function. The utility of these data for science and industry is discussed. 
4251976|A native of the Old World, this large grass has become an important crop in many countries. It provides more than two-thirds of the world's annual sugar consumption of 37,000,000 tons.
4255523|Lowland and mid-elevational rain forests of Sri Lanka harbor a relict, endemic-rich flora which is also rich in timber and non-timber forest resources. These forests supply nearly half the total wood requirements of the country and are dwindling rapidly; management of the forests to conserve the biological richness and maintain environmental services is therefore a difficult proposition. This predicament is further compounded by the dependency of rural people on a range of non-timber forest resources for their subsistence and income. A forestry master plan recently prepared for Sri Lanka has not given adequate recognition to the important role played by non-timber forest resources in rural livelihood. This oversight is primarily due to the lack of quantitative information to justify the role of non-timber forest resources in forestry sector development. Forestry policies that ignore these resources often anger local people, leading the villagers to vent their disapproval through destructive actions such as burning timber plantations. Long-term interdisciplinary research in ecology, reproductive and soil biology, ethnobiology, silviculture, rural sociology and resource economics in progress at Sinharaja attempts to address these questions of sustainable development of forest resources in an integrated mode. While research oriented toward conservation investigates both short- and long-term ecosystem dynamics in natural and modified forest stands, utilization-oriented research probes the impact of increased human disturbance, particularly the impact of rural communities on dwindling forest resources, as well as the effect of forest conservation on rural livelihood. These studies continue to seek alternative methods of forest management which are socially acceptable, economically viable, and ecologically sustainable for multiple uses. These methods will assist in the refinement of current forest policies, forestry planning, and the implementation of new policies and plans in Sri Lanka.
4253844|The recognition and subsequent detection of the importance of teosinte introgression in the racial diversity and heterotic gene architecture of maize has been one of the outstanding achievements of Paul C. Mangelsdorf's investigations into the origin of maize. This paper documents three areas in Mexico and Guatemala where maize and teosinte hybridize and where there is a system by which native cultivators exploit the heterotic nature of maize to increase their harvest. There is little reason to doubt that the hybridization and subsequent introgression of teosinte genes into maize observed at these sites is changed from that which has occurred over the past three thousand years resulting in the tremendous diversity and pronounced hybrid vigor in maize.
4252401|The varieties of kumara (sweet potato, Ipomoea batatas (Linn.) Poir.) being grown by the Maoris of the North Island of New Zealand are described and classed as Maori (pre-European) or European introductions. While the number of varieties is small compared with that claimed for the early Maori, it appears from the historical evidence that the variation in pre-European stocks was limited compared with that found elsewhere in the species. The New Zealand varieties have not been induced to flower, but varieties from the Pacific Islands, southeast Asia and South America have flowered in New Zealand, and some Peruvian varieties have set seed. The interaction of climate and variety in the manifestation of sexual reproduction in the species is considered in relation to an alternative explanation for the large number of varieties attributed to the pre-European Maori. Economic characters exhibited in the New Zealand varieties could form a useful basis for a plant improvement programme.
4255231| At least 150 plant species were used for food, medicine, material culture, and religious practices by the Chumash Indians of southern California. A great deal of traditional Chumash plant knowledge survived into the present century, despite massive deculturation. The most significant source of information on Chumash ethnobotany is the extensive, unpublished field notes of John P. Harrington, based on interviews conducted from 1912 into the 1950s. Several hundred voucher specimens collected by some of Harrington's consultants have also been preserved, along with the original notes, at the Smithsonian Institution. Data are presented here on knowledge and uses of plants in this important California Indian culture, as reconstructed from the Harrington material. Changes in plant knowledge resulting from Euro-American contact are also discussed. /// Los indios Chumash que vivan en el sur de California usaban mas que 150 espcies de plantas para alimentos, medicina, artefactos, y costumbres religiosas. A pesar de que esa cultura indgena ha sido casi destruda, el saber tradicional de las plantas ha perseverado hasta este siglo. La fuente mayor sobre el conocimiento etnobotnico de los Chumash tiene que ser las entrevistas realizadas por el antroplogo y lingista John P. Harrington con esos indios entre 1912 y los 1950s. Las materias Chumash juntado por Harrington, que actualmente se guardan en el Instituto Smithsonian, incluyen mas que cien mil pginas de notas y casi quinientos espcimenes de plantas. Aqu estn presentado datos sobre el saber y usar de plantas entre los Chumash, un grupo indgeno importante en California, como se pueden reconstruir usando las materias de Harrington. Tambien discuto lo que ha cambiado en el conocimiento etnobotnico a causa del contacto histrico con culturas extranjeras. 
4255257|The people of Kwara State, central Nigeria, depend on natural plant resources of their forests for food, medicine, pastoral, domestic, and other cultural and religious needs. This area, one of multi-ethnic status, has remained ethnobotanically unexplored until recently. Our survey among herbalists, herb sellers, tribal priests, and local people recorded medical and other uses of 52 species of plants. This first-hand information points out the importance of plants to tribal groups and modern people of central Nigeria.
4255574| Pitayas from various species were an important edible fruit in semiarid lands of tropical and subtropical Mexico in ancient times. Recently, farmers have been cultivating plants selected from the wild, such as Stenocereus queretaroensis in the Sayula Basin of Jalisco. These cacti can flower and produce fruit before the onset of the summer rainy period. Their fruits have an attractively colored pulp (often dark red) with digestible seeds and without the nasty glochids found on cactus pears. The sugar content is 10 to 11%. The shelf life is only a few days, as the fruits tend to dehisce longitudinally. Pitayas bring a competitive price in local markets, resulting in a substantial financial return with relatively low inputs of water, fertilizer, and pesticides. / Las pitayas de varias espcies han sido un fruto comestible de importancia en zonas semiridas tropicales y subtropicales de Mxico desde tiempos antiguos. Recientemente los agricultores han empleado plantas seleccionadas de poblaciones silvestres, como es el caso de Stenocereus queretaroensis en la Cunca de Sayula, Jalisco. Esta cactcea produce flores y frutos antes del perodo de lluvia en verano. Los frutos presentan una pulpa de color atractivo (frecuentamente rojo-obscro) con semllas comestibles y sin las desagradables gloquidas que se encuentran en las tunas. El contenido de azcares es 10 a 11%. Los frutos son perecederos, ya que al madurar presentan dehiscencia longitudinal. Las pitayas alcanzan precios competitivos en los mercados regionales y tienen una apreciable rentabilidad econmica debido a que requieren de poco riego, fertilizantes, y pesticidas. 
41408257|Species growing in 124 homegardens in 15 villages inhabited by 8 cultural groups living in Jinping County, southwest China, were recorded, together with information on the uses of the species and other features of the gardens. Data were gathered using key informant interviews, participatory observation, and ecological sampling. The results showed that production of food for domestic use was the main function of the gardens. Other uses included plants for income generation, household-level construction, local health care, and for ecological purposes (confined to higher altitude homegardens). The primary floristic variation in the gardens was related to climatic change with altitude, with variations in the use of the gardens to grow plants for local healthcare being also significant. Homegardens can be clustered into two groups based on floristic compositionlower altitude gardens (including Dai, Zhuang, Homg, and Lahu) and higher altitude gardens (including Yao, Yi, Hani, and Han). Both cultural conservatism and a readiness to adapt to new economic conditions are reflected in the characteristics of the gardens. Homegardens maintain considerable conservation value as repositories of several species of endangered plants and several species of medicinal plants that are over-collected in the wild.  815124  ( )( )()2   
4256840|The Philippines is a country that has little low-forest cover left, but it still has many useful forest species. Despite the decline of forest area and the degradation of forests, many of the poorest households, both indigenous and migrant, are pushed into the remaining forest area and depend on forest goods for their subsistence and monetary income. These goods are inevitably nonwood forest products (NWFPs) because timber extraction is now illegal in many parts of the country. The extraction of nonwood forest products, such as resin and rattan, is the only source of a cash income for many households. However, despite the long tradition of NWFP extraction in forest-edge villages, the income that collectors get from these products is still minimal. The impediments to a more equitable and efficient trade in NWFPs are examined, and possible ways of adding value locally to NWFPs are presented, using almaciga (Agathis philippinensis) resin extraction as a case study.
4255234| The major extractable components of two species identified as having high oil or polyphenol contents were characterized in detail. Asclepias linaria, a desert milkweed, contains 30.3% extractable material on a dry-weight basis, and Ilex verticillata contains 41.5% extractable material on a dry-weight basis. Important components in A. linaria oil fractions are triterpene alcohols and esters, wax, and natural rubber; fatty acid triglycerides were nearly absent. Ilex verticillata oil fractions were predominantly triglycerides with some triterpene fatty acid esters. The more polar polyphenol fraction contained sugars and sugar esters of fatty acids and triterpene acids. The polyphenol fraction from these plants is better described as a saponin fraction. Because the crude saponin fraction represents 10.7% of the dry weight of A. linaria and 18.9% of the dry weight of I. verticillata and because the saponin fractions showed good emulsifying properties, the refined extract of these plants might be used as a biodegradable surfactant. /// Los componentes mayores que se pueden extraer de dos especies identificadas como teniendo cantidades de mucha esencia o cantidades de polifenol fueron caracterizados en detalle. Asclepias linaria, un vencetsigo del desierto, tiene 30.3% material que se puede extraer en un base de peso seco, y Ilex verticillata tiene 41.5% material que se puede extraer en un base de peso seco. Componentes importantes en A. linaria fracciones de esencia son alcoholes de triterpenos y steres, cera, y goma natural. Triglicridos de acidos grasos casi fueron no existentes. Ilex verticillata fracciones de esencia fueron triglicridos predominantemente con algunas steres triterpenos de acidos grasos. La fraccin polifenol mas polar contuvi azucares y steres de azucar de acidos grasos y acidos triterpenos. La fraccin polifenol de estas plantas esta describida como una fraccin saponina. Porque la fraccin saponina cruda representa 10.7% del peso seco de A. linaria y 18.9% del peso seco de I. verticillata y porque las fraccines saponinas muestraron buenas propiedades de emulsiar, es posible usar el extracto refinado de estas plantas como un detergente biogradable. 
4256094|Fruit trees and shrubs dominate the edible flora of Africa. Does their geographic distribution differ significantly from that of the woody flora in general? Based on analyses of macro-scale geographic variations in the species richness (hereinafter SR) of southern Africa's trees and shrubs, there is a west-to-east trend of increasing edible-fruit-providing SR that is similar to that of woody plants as a whole and in accord with changes in climate and vegetation. Distinct from this pattern, the percentage of edible fruit-providing species increases northwards and towards the interior of Africa, with an unexpected broad subcontinental zone of relatively high percentages of edible fruit species separating rich nutritional resource areas (high edible SR) from nutritional deserts (low edible SR). This is consistent with humans and other wide-ranging vertebrates (e.g., elephants) dispersing edible fruit species into normally less than ideal (nutritional) environments during cyclical and/or episodic periods of wetter climate.
4254042|The developmental stages in the growth of the cultivated paddy straw mushroom (Volvariella volvacea) on damp straw beds were studied. Pure cultures of the strain CI/70/52 were grown on test tube slants of potato dextrose sugar, and the inoculum increased in large bottles filled with moistened paddy straw. The bottle inoculum was used to inoculate three layers of a four-tiered straw bed. The stages in the development of a carpophore were classified on the basis of the time sequence, length, breadth and length/breadth ratio. The results suggest that the classification provides a basis for harvesting the buttons at the most desirable stage.
40686786|Fermented beverages are almost universal among ancient human societies. Ethanol is an analgesic, disinfectant, and mind-altering substance, and can help to preserve and enhance the nutritional value of food. Ferementation has therefore played a key role in human cultural and technological development. In Mesoamerica, codices and colonial-era sources describe a variety of fermented beverages produced before European contact. Distilled beverages, in contrast, have not been invented in all cultures, and their production in pre-contact Mesoamerica remains controversial. We tested the hypothesis of Needham et al. (1980) that Capacha gourd and trifid vessels described by Kelly (1974) for the Early Formative (1500-1000 BCE) in Colima state, western Mexico, could have been used to produce distilled beverages. Experiments using vessel replicas, techniques, and materials (including agave ferment) available in this region during this period successfully produced ethanol-containing distillates. We propose the possible origin and development of a "Capacha-type Mesoamerican still" from bean pots or from steamer pots used during this period, and discuss the possible production of spirits as part of the prevailing agricultural and cultural system. Average gourd and trifid vessel sizes, their archaeological context, and the ethanol yields of the replicas suggest that, if used as stills, they were used to produce a prestige product for ceremonial purposes, with high social and cultural relevance. Las bebidas fermentadas son casi universales entre las sociedades humanas antiguas. El etanol es una sustancia analgsica, desinfectante y alteradora de la conciencia, y puede ayudar a preservar e incrementar el valor nutritivo de los alimentos. La fermentacin, por tanto, ha jugado un papel clave en el desarrollo cultural y tecnolgico de la humanidad. En Mesoamerica, los cdices y las fuentes de la poca colonial describen una variedad de bebidas fermentadas producidas antes del contacto con los europeos. Las bebidas destiladas, en contraste, no se han inventado en todas las culturas, y su produccin en la Mesoamrica pre-Hispnica permance controversial. En este trabajo probamos la hiptesis de Needham et al. (1980) de que las vasijas Capacha tipo bule y trfidas descritas por Kelly (1974) para el Formativo Temprano (1500-1000 antes de Cristo [A.C.]) en el estado de Colima, en el occidente de Mxico, pudieron haber sido usadas para producir bebidas destiladas. Los experimentos, usando rplicas de vasijas, tecnicas y materiales (incluyendo el fermento de agave) disponibles en la region durante ese periodo, resultaron exitosos para producir destilados conteniendo etanol. Proponemos el posible origen y desarrollo de un "Destilador Mesoamericano tipo Capacha" a partir de las ollas frijoleras o de las ollas vaporeras que se usaban en ese periodo, y discutimos la possible produccin de bebidas destiladas como parte del sistema agricola y cultural. Las dimensiones promedio de las vasijas tipo bule y trfidas reportadas, su contexto arqueolgico, y los rendimientos de etanol obtenidos experimentalmente con las rplicas, sugieren que, si se usaron como destiladores, lo fueron para elaborar un producto suntuario con fines ceremoniales, con alta relevancia social y cultural.
4252214|The wood of paulownia is strong and light. It is extensively employed in eastern Asia for building, furniture, musical instruments, chests, clogs and plywood. The potentiality of using paulownia wood in the aeronautical age for the manufacture of crating and boxing lumber for airplane express or freight shipment is highly appraised. The possibilities of employing paulownia wood in small boat building and for carving and the use of paulownia chips as bedding in dairy barns or as litter in chicken houses are excellent. The Chinese practice of administering parts of paulownias for the growth of hair and in other fields of medicine are reviewed. These practices await scientific investigation and evaluation.
4255155| The expansion in wildrice (Zizania palustris) production and the associated research efforts represent the largest modern effort to domesticate a cereal grain. Wildrice growers brought the species under cultivation, but plant breeding and agronomic research have accelerated the domestication process. The domestication and commercialization of this diploid (2n = 30), protogynous, cross-pollinated, annual, aquatic cereal present an opportunity to examine crop evolution and domestication theory. Traits associated with the domesticated cereal grains are shattering resistance, tiller synchrony, and increased seed size. This syndrome of traits may result from automatic selection, the selective force applied by repeated cycles of planting of harvested seed. Positive responses from deliberate selection for these traits in wildrice populations indicate that a domestication ideotype is attainable through plant breeding and that founder effect in this diploid species may be negligible. Continued commercial production of wildrice in the Great Lakes region is not likely to further the domestication process, whereas automatic selection may be initiated in the emerging California wildrice industry. /// El incremento en la producin de arroz silvestre (Zizania palustris) ya la investigacin realizada en esta especie representan el esfuerzo ms grande en la domesticacin de un cereal en tiempos modernos. Los productores de arroz silvestre iniciaron su cultivo, pero el fitomejoramiento y la investigacin agronmica han acelerado su domesticacin. La domesticacin y comercializacin de este cereal diploide (2n = 30), protogino, algamo, anual, y de hbito acutico presenta una oportunidad para examinar la teora de la evolucin y domesticacin de cultivos. La resistencia al desgrane, sincronizacin del amacollamiento, y el incremento en tamao de grano son caractersticas comunes en los cereales domesticados. Estas caractersticas pueden ser el resultado de una seleccin automtica debida a la siembra de semilla cosechada. Respuestas positivas a la seleccin directa de estas caractersticas en poblaciones de arroz silvestre indican que un ideotipo domesticado se puede lograr por medio del fitomejoramiento, y que el efecto del tamao en la poblacin base en esta especie diploide puede ser de poca importancia. Es probable que la producin de arroz silvestre en la regin de los Grandes Lagos de los Estados Unidos de Amrica no adelante el proceso de domesticacin. En cambio, seleccin automtica puede ser iniciada con la producin de arroz silvestre en el estado de California. 
4287978|Right-of-ways occupy a vast acreage of our landscape where vegetation management is necessary. On these areas indiscriminate use of chemical weed killers is widespread even with sound ecological techniques readily available. The application of sound management would not only benefit the utility with reduced costs on a long-range basis but also result in high conservation values to the nation.
4253800| Outcrossed opaque-2 kernel weighed significantly higher than the sibbed ones, however, outcrossed kernels (
4255065|Lauric oils and their derivatives have many applications both in the food and chemical industries. The major sources and some alternative raw materials for this multi-billon dollar business are discussed in the light of their ability to supply future market needs. There should be ample supply of lauric oils-except when drought and possibly disease affect large areas of coconut plantations-because of the rapid increase in palm kernel oil production expected from the African oil palm during the next decade. Most other sources are unlikely to be important in the short term because of the generally adequate supply of lauric oils and the considerable amount of research still needed to convert the best options into viable crops. However, a dramatic effect on supply can be expected if it becomes possible to manipulate the appropriate genes from lauric oil producing species of Cuphea into a conventional oil crop like rape. Future demand for lauric oils will be affected by the relative price of other vegetable oils and petroleum feedstocks that can be used to replace them in the manufacture of an increasing number of end products in both the food and chemical industries.
40390587|This paper compares four indices based on informant consensus. Each index aims to assess the cultural significance of plant species and is suitable for statistical testing of different hypotheses. For the comparison, we used data concerning plants traditionally used in the Campoo area of southern Cantabria in northern Spain. Our results show a positive and significant correlation between the number of uses (NU) and the frequency of citation (FC) of the species. It seems to be a general rule that the more versatile a plant, the more widespread its usefulness. In addition, NU is highly influenced by the number of use-categories in the study. Consequently, an objective index must rely on FC more than NU. We propose the use of the cultural importance index (CI), which is defined as the summation of the informants' proportions that mention each of the uses of the species. The CI index is highly correlated with FC and, although it also considers diversity of use, each usecategory is conveniently weighted by the number of informants mentioning it. Despite the use of cultural significance indices being questioned, we believe that indices based on in-depth, semi-structured interviews are still very useful for compilation studies of passive knowledge, such as most ethnobotanical works conducted in the last three decades in Europe.
4257224| Plant remains were recovered from an Urartian settlement, Yoncatepe, situated in the Van province of eastern Turkey and dating to the Iron Age period (first millennium B.C.E.). Large quantities of hulled barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and of bread/macaroni wheat (free-threshing wheat) (Triticum aestivum L./T. durum Desf.), both mixed with small quantities of domesticated emmer wheat (T. dicoccum Schbl.), were found in the storerooms of the Yoncatepe palace, indicating the storage of agricultural surplus. Rye (Secale cereale L.) grains occur very occasionally, while pulses include lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.), chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.), and bitter vetch (Vicia ervilia [L.] Wild.). Grape seeds unearthed in a tomb at Yoncatepe provide physical evidence supporting written records of vineyards. Numerous seeds of gold of pleasure (Camelina sativa [L.] Crantz), found in a storage vessel, provide evidence of the cultivation of this plant. It is likely that the Urartians used the seeds for oil extraction. 
4252732|The current poor state of health and high rate of death of sugar maples (Acer saccharum Marsh.), particularly along roadsides in the Northeast, is thought to be due primarily to the current prolonged and severe drought, aggravated along roads by the salt applied for winter snow control. Sugar maples appear to be particularly sensitive to drought and other abuse because of a shallow root system and other factors. Sugar maples have a narrow range of site tolerances. They are also particularly sensitive to salt injury. The present evaluation of sugar maple decline is based upon approximately 160 published and perhaps as many unpublished sources; it explores the external factors (biotic and abiotic) and internal factors that could contribute to the problem.
4255149| Plants of the genus Cyphomandra (Solanaceae) have long been utilized for their edible fruits in their native Latin America. The best-known species is the domesticated tree tomato or tamarillo, Cyphomandra betacea. This species, popular as a raw or cooked fruit, is widely cultivated in Andean South America and is now dispersed worldwide in subtropical areas. Its origin and wild relatives are still unknown, but there are tentative reports of wild populations of C. betacea in southern Bolivia and northwestern Argentina. Wild species of Cyphomandra such as C. hartwegii, C. sibundoyensis, and C. cajanumensis also produce edible fruits. Other species of Cyphomandra are used in medicinal preparations and as dyes. This group of plants is of increasing economic importance and may have considerable potential for future exploitation. /// Plantas del gnero Cyphomandra (Solanaceae) han sido utilizado por mucho tiempo por sus frutos comestibles en Amrica Latina donde estn nativas. La especie ms conocida es el domesticado tomate de rbol o tamarillo, Cyphomandra betacea. Esta especie, que est estimada como una fruta cruda o cocinada, est extensamente cultivada en los Andes del Amrica del Sur y ahora est crecida mundial en las regiones subtropicales. El lugar del origen y progenitores todava estn desconocidos, pero hay reportes tentativos de poblacines silvestres de C. betacea en el sur de Bolivia y el noroeste del Argentina. Especies de Cyphomandra no cultivadas como C. hartwegii, C. sibundoyensis, y C. cajanumensis tambin dan frutos comestibles. Otras especies de Cyphomandra se utilizan como medicinas y tinturas. Este grupo de plantas tiene mucho importancia econmica y tenga gran potencial para explotacin en el futuro. 
4255089| Using plant material to control pests may alleviate the burden of heavy reliance on synthetic pesticides. In China, the rich tradition and knowledge of herbal medicine, combined with an organized but short-lived effort of using indigenous pesticidal plants, resulted in an accumulation of literature in the late 1950s. In this review, a table containing 267 pesticidal plants is compiled to provide a glimpse of the Chinese experience. /// L'utilisation de materiel vgtal dans le contrl parasitaire peut soulager considiralement l'important besoin de pesticides de synthse. La Chine, avec sa richesse de tradition et de connaissance de la mdecine avec les plantes, men un effort organis mais de court-terme vers la fin des annes 50. Cette revue, une table de 267 plantes pesticides a t rdige dans le but de donner une ide de l'experience Chinoise. 
4253823|Coleus blumei Benth. cv. '12th Man' was fumigated with hydrogen fluoride gas. The treatment caused the development of lesions which originally involved the mesophyll but spread to and eventually included the epidermis. An anthocyanin, cyanidin-3,5-diglucoside acylated with p-coumaric acid, was destroyed and it was postulated that the flavanonol, dihydrokaempferol, was converted to the flavone, apigenin. The anthocyanin destruction and pigment conversion occurred following membrane injury and mixing of the cellular constituents.
4287873|The pulp and kernel oils from the fruit of this palm, exceedingly abundant in Paraguay, have long been used locally in the manufacture of soap. Kernels were formerly exported to Europe but now are entirely crushed in Paraguay and only the oil exported, principally to Argentina which normally takes 50 to 75% of the production.
4251884|This deadly arrow-poison of South American Indians, concocted from the juices of a variety of plants, has found modern clinical use in the treatment of human ailments.
4252709|The pinyon pines of southwestern North America have been used by man as a source of food, firewood, medicinal compounds, and ceremonial materials for many centuries. The importance of these pines to contemporary inhabitants of the area has decreased markedly in recent years, and in some areas programs have been initiated to curtail the development of the juniper-pinyon association. These programs are aimed at increasing local water resources, but the long-range effects of the methods employed remain to be seen.
4256913|Moringa is an Old-World dry tropical plant genus with great food, horticultural, industrial, and pharmaceutical potential. Although many of the thirteen known Moringa species are in danger of extinction, one species, M. oleifera Lam., is now widely cultivated. M. oleifera was therefore utilized to develop micropropagation techniques that may be applicable to the more endangered members of this genus. Immature seeds were the most responsive tissue source, and greatest success was achieved using membrane rafts and a liquid growth medium. The success rate was 73%, but the multiplication rate averaged only 4.7 shoots per culture. Most vigorous plantlet development through the transplant stage was achieved using a commercial plant preservative formulation of isothiazolones following shoot proliferation. Although there was no evidence of contamination, treatment with this microbiocide prevented early tissue senescence and it increased culture survivability.
4256224| Standardized morphological descriptions, quantitative phytochemical analyses (HPLC) of major kavalactones and DNA fingerprinting (AFLP) were utilized to define the extent of variation existing between Hawaiian cultivars of Piper methysticum. For each cultivar, morphotypes and chemotypes were compared to their respective genotypes. Overall, 63 samples were analyzed for their kavalactone content and composition (44 root samples, 6 stump, 5 basal stem, 7 leaves and 1 peelings). Results obtained from different cultivars planted in an homogeneous environment (soil and climate) are quite variable for the kavalactone content of their roots. Total kavalactone content decreases when shade increases over the plants. Total kavalactone content markedly increases with fertility, irrigation and in a cultivated type of habitat. However, kavalactone content appears to be independent of the age of the plant. For all cultivars analyzed, total kavalactone content decreases from the roots to the stump; the basal stems and the leaves exhibit the lower concentration. It is also observed that there is a correlation between the total kavalactone content and the size of the roots: smaller roots tend to have a higher kavalactone content. Peelings of the bark had a higher kavalactone content than the stump and represent a very interesting by-product for the extraction industry. Chemotypes are similar in the roots and the stump, while they differ in the aerial parts where the concentrations in dihydrokavain and dihydromethysticin increase. DNA samples were extracted from fresh leaves collected on 22 accessions. Most accessions, representing all Hawaiian morphotypes were monomorphs for the 21 pairs of primers assayed. Kava in Hawai'i is a species with an extremely narrow genetic base. Morphological and phytochemical variation is obviously controlled by very few genes. Most cultivars representing different morphotypes are most likely somatic mutants from a common clonal source introduced by Polynesians during early settlements. /// Ho 'opa'a 'ia ka laul o ka 'oko'a i waena o n 'ano 'awa kanu (Piper methysticum) o ka Hawai'i ma n wehewehe kino maekanu ma'amau ke klailai heluna kemikala no n "kavalactone" a me ke "kapla mka manumana lima" ewe DNA (kaila AFLKP). No kl me kia 'ano 'awa ho'ohlikelike 'ia ke 'ano o ke kino, n kemikala o Ioko a me n ewe. He 63 hpana i klailai 'ia no ka nui o n kavalactone a me n kemikala o loko (he 44 hpana a'a, 6 kumu, 5 ku'ina h, 7 lau me ka 1 ihina 'ili kumu.) I loko o ke kanu 'ia o n 'ano 'awa 'oko'a ma loko o ke kaipuni like o ka lepo me ke ainau he 'oko'a pono n ma n kavalactone o n a'a. He emi mai ka heluna kavalactone ke pi'i ka malu o luna o n meakanu. He pi'i na'e ka heluna kavalactone e like me ka momona o ka lepo, ka ho'okahe 'ia o ka wai, a me ka mahi 'ia o kahi kanu. Me he mea ala 'a'ohe pili o ka heluna kavalactone i ke o'o o ka meakanu. No n 'ano 'awa a pau i klailai 'ia, 'oi aku n kavalactone o n a'a ma mua o n kumu a emi loa ma n ku'ina h me n lau. 'Ike p 'ia he pili ka heluna kavalactone i ke ana o ke a'a: 'oi aku n kavalactione o n a'a li'ili'i. 'O n ihina 'ili kumu, he 'oi p aku ka heluna kavalactone ma mua o ko ke kumu a he mea waiwai paha ia no n p'oihana 'awa. 'Ano like n kemikala o n a'a me n kumu. 'oiai na'e he 'oko'a ko n mhele ulu i ka lewa, kahi nona ho'i ka 'oi 'o n k"dihydrokavain" me ka "dihydromethysticin." 'U 'ia ka DNA mail loko o n lau hou loa i 'ohi 'ia ma n 'ako 'ana he 22. 'O ka nui o n 'ako 'ana no loko n ho'i o n 'ano 1awa kanu a pau. ua like n ka hopena i 'ike 'ia ma ke kilo 'ana i ke 'ano o n ewe ma n 'oki wewe 'oko'a 'ana he 21 i ka DNA. He meakanu ka 'awa o ka Hawai'i i hiki loa kona kahua ewe. 'O ka 'oko'a o n kino meakanu a me n kemikala o loko he ahuwale kona pili i n ewe kka'ikahi loa n. 'O ka nui o n 'awa kanu i 'oko'a ke kino, ua kupa huli mai n paha mai loko mai o kekahi molekumu 'ano'ano 'ole ho'okahi i ho'opae 'ia mai e n Polensia ma n h'ea mua 'ana o lkou i Hawai'i. 
4253289|TAXIR, an information retrieval system designed for taxonomic data, can be effectively applied to the management of information accumulated by Plant Introduction about accessions of a major crop, Phaseolus vulgaris.
4251932|Widely known throughout the tropics of the world but not abundantly cultivated outside its native Andean home, this fruit offers a desirable addition to the food resources of warmer climates.
4254480|The total sugars in the mesocarp of the date palm fruit is between 70 and 80%. Approximately 60% of the dry weight of the mesocarp at the Khalal and early Rutab stages of fruit development in sucrose. High-yielding varieties of date palm have fruit yield potentials of 12.0 tons/ha, equivalent to an estimated production of 7.2 tons/ha of sucrose if the fruit is harvested at the stage of maximum sucrose accumulation. The estimated sucrose production from the date palm compares very favourably with the world average of 6.6 tons/ha for cane-sugar and the beet sugar average of 5.6 tons/ha for Europe. The relatively high sugar content of the fruit suggests that the date palm may have an important agro-industrial future as a potential source for refined sugar.
4255748| Plantains (Musa spp., AAB group) are an important food crop and an integral component of the farming systems in the lowland humid forest zone of West and Central Africa. A group of 24 plantain cultivars, representing the major variability in West Africa, was evaluated for nine quantitative characters. The association between growth and yield parameters in this African plantain germplasm was examined to determine if the pattern of quantitative variation in inflorescence and vegetative traits agreed with taxonomic groupings based on inflorescence type and plant size. Phenotypic correlations between these traits were calculated. Giant cultivars were taller, their pseudostem thicker, and they flowered much later than medium-sized cultivars. Giant cultivars produced more foliage, resulting in heavier bunches with more hands and fruits. Groupings that resulted following principal component analysis (PCA) supported conventional taxonomic groupings of plantains. PCA was based mainly on time to flowering, pseudostem height, and number of fruits. The last two traits, in combination with the number of hermaphrodite flowers and the persistence of the male bud, sufficed to group plantain cultivars. /// Los pltanos (Musa spp. grupo AAB) son un importante alimento y un componente integral de los sstemas agrcolas en los bosques tropicales hmedos del Africa del Oeste y Central. Una muestra de 24 cultivares de pltano, que representan la mayor variabilidad en Africa del Oeste, fue evaluada por nueve caractersticas cuantitativas. La asociacin entre las caracteristicas de crecimiento y rendimiento, en este germoplasma africano de pltano, fue examinada para determinar si la variabilidad cuantitativa en la inflorescencia y las caractersticas vegetativas estn de acuerdo con grupos taxonmicos definidos por el tipo de la inflorescencia y el tamao de la planta. Correlaciones fenotpicas entre estas caractersticas cuantitativas fueron calculadas. Los cultivares gigantes son ms altos, con un pseudotallo ms grueso y con floracin ms tarda que los cultivares de tamao intermedio. Los cultivares gigantes producen ms follaje, lo que resulta en rcimos ms pesados con ms manos y frutos. Los grupos definidos por el anlisis de componentes principales (PCA) estn de acuerdo con grupos taxonmicos convencionales en pltano. El PCA fue definido principalmente por das a la floracin, tamao del pseudotallo, y nmero de los frutos por rcimo. Estas dos ltimas caractersticas, en combinacin con el nmero de flores hermafroditas y la persistencia de la bellota masculina, son suficientes par la clasificacin de cultivares de pltano. 
41242888|The pita plant-Aechmea magdalenae (Andr) Andr ex Bakerhas been widely used throughout Ngbe communities in Panama as a source of fiber for hammocks, baskets (kra), nets, thread, rope, and other fibers and cloth. As Ngbe society becomes more integrated in regional and national society, the transformation of the pita plant to kra by the women of Chalite (Panama) has changed. Modern materials such as commercial dyes and synthetic threads are now used as substitutes for the pita fiber. As women specialize in tasks that are often linked to economic changes in Chalite, some women have specialized in kra production or even subsets of production while others have discontinued the practice and rely on other women for kiga or kra. Limited production of kra for the tourist trade has been unsuccessful as inadequate markets exist. La planta de pita-Aechmea magdalenae (Andr) Andr ex Bakerha sido usada ampliamente en todas las comunidades Ngbe en Panam como material de fibra para hamacas, cestos (kra), redes, hilo, lazos and otras cuerdas y tela. Amedida que la sociedad Ngbe se integra ms a Ia sociedad regional y nacional, Ia transformacin de la planta de pita en kra (cestos) por las mujeres de Chalite (Panam) ha cambiado. Ahora se usan materiales modernos tales como colorantes y fibras sintticas como sustitutos de las fibra de pita. A medida que las mujeres se especializan en tareas que relacionadas con cambios econmicos en Chalite, algunas mujeres se han especializado en la produecin de kra (cesteria), incluso en sub-reas de su produecin, mientras que otras han descontinuado su prctica y dependen de otras mujeres para su kiga o kra. La produccin limitada de kra para el comercio turstico no ha tenido xito debido a que existe un mercado inadecuado
4255962| Malaria is probably the most serious health problem facing northern Amazonia, and isolated populations can benefit greatly from the knowledge of local resources which may effectively be used to control it. The results of an ethnobotanical survey of the plant species used in the treatment of malaria in the Brazilian State of Roraima are presented. Fieldwork was carried out amongst seven savanna- and forest-dwelling indigenous groups, and among the Luso-Brazilian population. Ninety-nine species, of 82 genera and 41 families, were identified as having been used for this purpose in the region. The results are discussed in the context of previously published information on anti-malarial plants of northern Latin America, which was analysed by a broad literature survey whose overall results are also presented here. Of the species collected in Roraima, only 24 appear previously to have been reported as anti-malarials, although 49% of the represented genera are known to be used in this way elsewhere. The plants are currently undergoing laboratory screening for anti-malarial activity and toxicity. /// A malria , provavelmente, o problema de sade mais grave que afeta o norte da Amaznia, e as populaes isoladas podem se beneficiar muito com o conhecimento dos recursos naturais que servem para combat-la. Os resultados de um levantamento etnobotnico das espcies de plantas utilizadas no tratamento de malria no estado de Roraima (Brasil) so aqui apresentados. Trabalho de campo foi realizado com sete grupos indgenas da savana e da floresta, e com a populao Luso-brasileira. Noventa e nove espcies, de 82 gneros e 41 famlias, foram identificadas como sendo utilizadas para esta finalidade na regio. Os resultados so discutidos no contexto das informaes j existentes sobre plantas anti-malricas do norte da Amrica Latina, as quais foram analizadas atravs de um amplo levantamento bibliogrfico cujos resultados principais tambm so aqui apresentados. Entre as espcies coletadas em Roraima, somente 24 parecem ter sido previamente documentadas como anti-malricas, porm 49% dos gneros representados so conhecidos como anti-malricos em outras regies. As plantas esto sendo atualmente testadas em laboratrio para verificar a presena de atividade anti-malrica e de toxicidade. 
4255444| Traditional medicinal plantlore and its supporting plant species are disappearing at alarming rates. This loss comes at a time when ethnobotanists and biochemists are again beginning to screen plants for active compounds that are effective against many human afflictions. Thus, we interviewed a "bush lady" and two other Guyanese knowledgeable in plant uses for treating human ailments. The interviews produced a list of 55 plants. Here we provide the common and scientific names of these plants, concise descriptions of their uses, cross-references to other vernacular names and uses in the Caribbean and northern South America, and the locations of voucher specimens for 46 of the 55 species. /// El conocimiento tradicional de las plantas medicinales y sus especies que las sustentan estn desapareciendo a una velocidad alarmante. Esta prdida llega en el tiempo cuando etnobotnicos y bioqumicos estn comenzando nuevamente a proteger las plantas para compuestos activos que son efectivos contra muchas dolencias humanas. Por consiguiente, entrevistamos a una curandera y otros dos guyaneses que tenan conocimiento en el uso de las plantas para tratar achaques humanos. La entrevista produjo una lista de 55 plantas. Aqu proveemos los nombres comnes y cientficos de aquellas plantas, descripcines concisas de sus usos, referencia cruzada para otros nombres vernculos y sus usos en el Caribe y en el norte de Sur Amrica, y las localizaciones de evidencia para 46 de las 55 especies. 
4255373| Kernels grown within loosened glumes in three varieties of paddy were darker in color and had a smoother surface than those grown under normal conditions. The thickness of the pericarp plus seed coat layers was 33.6  2.8 m, and the thickness of the aleurone layers was 21.7  2.5 m in grains of the first type, while in the normal grains, these dimensions were 13.0  1.4 and 26.9  2.9 m respectively. The kernels which developed within loosened glumes tended to taper towards the distal end. They were lighter in weight than normal grains by 32 to 67 percent, the weight loss being less in the bolder variety. The lemma-palea interlocking depth was positively correlated with the groove depth on the kernel and with the clearance between husk and kernel. All three parameters showed a positive correlation with grain breadth. A low lemma-palea interlocking depth and a smaller clearance between husk and kernel are technologically desirable characteristics in rice. The reclasping of the two glume components after pollination was essential for the normal development of the rice grain. /// In drei Reisarten wiesen die Krner, die innerhalb lockeren Glumae wuchsen, eine dunklere Farbe und eine glattere Oberflche aus, als diejenige die unter normalen Bedingungen gewachsen hatten. Die Dicke der Keimhlle, mit den Fruchthautschichten zusammengenommen war 33.6  2.8 m, und die Dicke der Aleuronschichten war 21.7  2.5 m in Krnern der ersten Art; in den normalen Krnern waren diese Dimensionen 13.0  1.4 m bzw. 26.9  2.9 m. Die Krner, die sich innerhalb der losen Glumae entwickelten, hatten eine Tendenz sich gegen das fernere Ende zuzuspitzen. Sie waren auch 32 bis 67% leichter als die normale Krner; das Gewichtsverlust war kleiner in den grsseren Krnern. Die Tiefe des Ineinandergreifens der Vor- und Ruckenspelzen war positiv mit der Tiefe des Falzes am Korn, und mit dem Spalt zwischen Hlse und Korn korreliert. Diese drei Parametern zeigten alle eine positive Korrelation mit der Kornweite. Kleinere Werte fr die Tiefe des Ineinandergreifens der Vor- und Ruckspelzen, und fr den Spalt zwischen Hlse und Korn, sind wunschbare Charaktern im Reis. Das Wiederzusammengreifen der zwei Glumaekomponenten nach Bestubung war notwendig fr die normale Entwicklung des Reiskorns. 
4255940| Pitaya fruit commercialized in southern Jalisco comes primarily from anthropogenic populations. These populations are associated with archaeological sites dating between 300 B.C. and A.D. 1200. Stand structure and productivity of five anthropogenic stands contrast sharply with that of natural and cultivated stands. Individuals from a natural stand have smaller-diameter trunks and canopies and produce less fruit than anthropogenic stands. Structure and productivity of one stand may correlate with the associated archaeological occupation. Individual productivity is highly correlated with diameter of the canopy. Both men and women participate in the harvest and sale of pitaya fruit earning the same or as much as three times that paid as wage laborers. Conservation of these stands and the associated archaeological sites would require land purchase and protection but the sale of pitaya fruits could sustain the efforts necessary to protect and manage these populations over the long term. /// La mayor parte del fruto commercializado de la pitaya en el sur de Jalisco proviene de poblaciones antropognicas. Estas poblaciones se asocian con sitios arqueolgicos cuyo antigedad es de 300 A.C. hasta 1200 D.C. La estructura y productividad de estas poblaciones contrasten drasticamente con las de poblaciones naturales y cultivadas. Individuos de poblaciones naturales tienen troncos y copas de menor diametro y producen menos fruto que las antropognicas. La estructura y productividad de una poblacion relicta se corelacionan con la fecha estimada del sitio arqueolgico asociado. La productividad de los individuos se correlaciona con el diametro de la copa. Mujeres y hombres participan en la cosecha y venta de frutos, ganando al menos el igual o hasta tres veces lo ganado en formas alternativas de trabajo como jornaleros. La conservacin de estas poblaciones y los sitios arqueolgicos donde se encuentran, requerreran de la compra y proteccin de las mismas; la venta del fruto de la pitaya podra sostener los esfuerzos necesarios para protegerlos y manejarlos a largo plazo. 
4254075|A sample of 535 specimens of cucurbits were retrieved from archaeological deposits in the Viru Valley, Peru, from contexts dated between ca. 1800 B.C.-1100 A.D. by Carbon-14 analysis and cultural associations. Cultivars of Cucurbita maxima Duch. and C. moschata (Duch.) Duch. ex Poir. are found to be restricted, respectively, to early and late chronological periods, with no overlap. Cultural and ecological factors are suggested to account for the observed temporal and spatial variations in species occurrence. Comparison of materials from other coastal valleys indicates significant, but presently unexplainable, spatial and temporal differences in the distribution of these species. Supportive evidence for South America as an independent center of domestication for C. maxima is offered.
4255720|Mahafaly uses of plants to treat toothache in the Antongobe region are consistent with those from other countries where related species grow. We identify eight wild plants used in herbal dentistry, describe their manner of preparation and medicinal uses, and discuss their pharmacological properties. We also indicate briefly where dental problems belong in the larger ethnomedical system. / Ny fampiasan'ny Mahafaly zavamaniry itsaboana areti-nify any amin'ny faritanin' Antongobe dia mitovitovy amin'ireo any amin'ny tany hafa izay anirian'ny karazan-javamaniry fahita any Antongobe. Manao ny famantarana ny zavamaniry dia valo ampiasaina amin'ny fitsaboanify izahay, dia mampiseho ny fanomanana sy ny fampiasana azy ireo ary manadihady ny toetoetr'izy ireo amin'ny mahafanafody azy. Mampiseho koa izahay ny toerana misy ny raharaha momba ny nify eo anivon'ny tontolon'ny fitsaboana ara-fombapokonolona.
4287810|Though a companion of the potato in Andean nativity and in food value to Andean aborigines, arracacha, for various reasons, has not been successfully introduced into other parts of the world, despite efforts to that end.
4253108|Cyanogenetic glycosides were found to be present in the leaf, bark and fruit of eight species of Cotoneaster. A quantitative determination of cyanogenetic material was made on the leaf, bark and fruit of C. divaricata at three different periods in the growing season. The leaf was found to have the greatest percentage of cyanogenetic glycosides and the fruit the least. Seasonal variation was found to be greatest in the fruit where it was demonstrated that the cyanogenetic content decreased as the fruit aged. Toxicity of the fruit of C. divaricata was studied in the dog, cat and rat. On the basis of the cyanogenetic glycoside determinations and the toxicity studies it was concluded that classification of these eight species of Cotoneaster as poisonous was not warranted.
4256049|By surveying wild Fagopyrum species and their distribution in southern China and the Himalayan hills, I arrived at the conclusion that the newly discovered subspecies F. esculentum ssp. ancestralis Ohnishi is the wild ancestor of cultivated common buckwheat, while previously known wild tatary buckwheat, F. tataricum ssp. potanini Batalin is the wild ancestor of tatary buckwheat. Their original birthplace is revealed to be northwestern corner of Yunnan province for common buckwheat judging from the distribution of wild ancestor, and to be the northwest part of Sichuan province for tatary buckwheat judging from allozyme variability in wild tatary buckwheat. F. cymosum is not the ancestor of cultivated buckwheat; it is only distantly related to cultivated buckwheat, in morphology, isozymes and cpDNA. Several genetic, ecological and taxonomic categories which should be taken into consideration in examining the origin of buckwheat were discussed.
4254348|What ethical justification do you have for extracting tax money from people for purposes that do not yield them some greater benefit? You have to be able to say that the extra dollar spent on research will produce more than a dollar's worth of benefit to the person from whom the dollar was taken. That is a hard proposition to establish in the case of science.
4255849| Thirteen Middle Bronze Age IIa and four Late Bronze Age IIb (ca. 1950-1750 B.C. and thirteenth century, B.C., respectively) pieces of charcoal or water logged wood were found in the recent excavations of Tel Nami, a small port on the coast near Mount Carmel, Israel. These included Cedrus libani (cedar of Lebanon) (three samples), and local tree species that still grow today in the vicinity of the site-Pinus halepensis (Aleppo pine) (one sample), Olea europaea (olive tree) (five samples), Quercus calliprinos (kermes oak) (three samples), Quercus ithaburensis (Mt. Tabor oak) (four samples), and Quercus sp. (one sample). The discovery of Cedrus libani in a Middle Bronze Age IIa port is one of the earliest published examples of cedar wod from Israel. Together with other artifactual evidence for maritime trade from Tel Nami, this find suggests that a maritime trade in cedar wood existed along the Levantine coast. /// 17 Stcke Holzkohle oder voll Wasser gesogenes Holz, 13 aus Mittelbronze IIa und 4 aus Sptbronze IIb (1950-1750 v. Chr., und 13. Jhdt. v. Chr.) wurden in der krzlichen Ausgrabung von Tel Nami gefunden, einem kleinen Hafen nahe dem Karmelberg, Israel. Diese Stcke enthalten Cedrus libani (die Libanon-Zeder), 3 Exemplare, und lokale Baumarten, die bis heute in der Gegend waschsen-Pinus halepensis (Aleppo-Fichte), ein Exemplar, Olea europaea (lbaum), 5 Exemplare, Quercus calliprinos (Kermes-Eiche), 3 Exemplare, Quercus ithaburensis (Tabor-Eiche), 4 Exemplare, und Eichenarten, 1 Exemplar. Die Entdeckung von Cedrus libani in einem Mittelbronze IIa-Hafen ist eins der frhesten publizierten Vorkommen von Zederholz aus Israel. Zusammen mit anderen Zeugnissen von Seehandel aus Tel Nami legt dieser Fund die Annahme nahe, da Seehandel in Zederholz lngs der levantinischen Kste zu diesem frhen Zeitpunkt existiert hat. 
4253847|Research has been conducted on medicinal plants used for regulating fertility by the rural population of Paraguay. A survey was conducted among obstetricians, healers and medicinal plant vendors. Information was gathered on 33 plants, and 14 recipes for potions from two or more vegetal species are given. The scientific name, as well as the popular name and the manner of use is given for each plant.
4255884| Deergrass (Muhlenbergia rigens, Poaceae), a once abundant and widespread native perennial bunchgrass in California, was utilized extensively by at least twenty tribes for its flower stalks, incorporated into many types of coiled baskets. The craft of coiled basketry required the annual harvesting of thousands of culms by each village and the frequent setting of small-scale fires in many plant community types to eliminate detritus, recycle nutrients, increase culm production and prohibit shrub or tree encroachment. Detailed examination of Native American past fire management practices will provide insights into the cultural processes that shaped various ecosystem states, and unravel the ecological principles embedded in ancient land management systems. There are at least 300 contemporary Native American weavers and the successful revival of basketry in California is inextricably tied to access to and availability of plant resources on public lands. /// L'herbe cervide (Muhlenbergia rigens, angl. deergrass, Gramines), une espce d'herbe touffue anciennement abondante et rpandue en Californie, tait utilise considrablement pour ses tiges en fleurs par au moins vingt tribus qui employaient ceux-l dans la fabrication de leurs corbeilles enroules. L'artisanat de la vannerie enroule ncessitait que chaque village amrindien ment une rcolte annuelle des chaumes d'herbe et que l'on mt frquemment des feux d'tendue limite dans beaucoup de genres de communauts des plantes pour y occasionner l'limination des dtritus, le recyclage des lements nutritifs, l'augmentation de la production de chaumes et l'entrave de l'empitement des arbres et des arbustes. Un examen detaill des pratiques de la gestion du feu parmi les amrindiens nous permettra de mieux connatre les procds culturels qui influaient sur des divers tats des cosystmes et de dmler les principes cologiques ancrs dans les systmes anciens de la gestion du terrain. Il y a aujourd'hui quelques trois centaines de tisserands amrindiens, et la reprise de leur ancienne vannerie en Californie dpend inextricablement de l'accs  et l'existence de ressources des plantes dans les terres publiques. On devrait attirer l'attention de ceux qui mnent la gestion du terrain et qui formulent des politiques sur la grave diminution de l'habitat adquat pour des populations de l'herbe cervide. 
4255484| Phyllanthus amarus (Euphorbiaceae) possesses activity against hepatitis B virus and related hepadnaviruses. One such activity, the inhibition of endogenous hepadnavirus DNA polymerase, differed little between cultivated P. amarus and plants collected from the wild. Inhibitory activity equivalent to that in wild plants was obtained from both shoots and roots sown at different times of the year in a subtropical region (Dade County, Florida, U.S.A.). Plant size and two levels of fertilization did not significantly affect activity. Plots were planted using a cellulose gel to evenly disperse the small seeds. Gel amendments used at sowing had no significant effect on the antiviral activity of harvested plants. Drip irrigation permitted successful cultivation during the dry season. Plastic mulch was used to control weeds. Phyllanthus amarus grows slowly, and reaches a maximum size and vigor at about 5-7 months after sowing. Under south Florida conditions, the greatest biomass of P. amarus was produced when seeds were sown in mid-winter for a summer harvest. With weed control by the mulch, water and fertilization via the drip irrigation, six and a half month old plants (from sowing) reached an average dry weight of approximately 40 g/plant when harvested in July or August. / Phyllanthus amarus (Euphorbiaceae) posee actividades contra el virus hepatitis B y otros hepadnavirus relacionados. Una actividad especfica, la inhibicin de la polimerasa DNA endgena de los hepadnavirus, no vari entre las plantas cultivadas y colecciones de plantas silvestres. Un nivel de actividad inhibitoria equivalente a plantas silvestres se obtuvo de vstagos y raices de plantas sembradas en diferentes epocas del ao en una regin subtropical (Dade County, Florida, EE UU). El tamao de la planta y dos niveles de abonamiento no tuvo efecto significativo sobre la actividad. Las parcelas fueron sembrados usando un gel de celulosa para dispersar homogneamente las pequeas semillas. Diferentes enmiendas de gel al sembrar no tuvieron efecto sobre la actividad antiviral de las plantas cosechadas. El uso de riego por goteo permiti el cultivo exitoso durante la temporada seca. Se us plstico para controlar las malezas. El crecimiento de P. amarus es lento, y llega a su mximo tamao y vigor entre los 5 y 7 meses despus de la siembra. Bajo las condiciones del sur de la Florida, se produjo la mxima bomasa cuando se sembr en medio del invierno para cosechar en el verano. Por medio del uso de plstico para controlar malezas, riego por goteo y la fertilizacin a travs del riego, el promedio de peso seco por planta de seis meses y medio de edad fue de 40 g al cosecharlas en julio o agosto. 
4256880|In this study, 121 wild edible plants used as food in Anatolia were surveyed to determine the plant parts used and their detailed preparation methods. The results of this study show that the plants may be boiled, fried in fat, and eaten raw or as rolled vegetables. They may also be consumed as pickles, fruits, sweets and spices, and drunk as cold and hot drinks. Thirty species (8 genera) were identified as belonging to the Lamiaceae family, 15 species (15 genera) belong to the Asteraceae family, 13 species (5 genera) belong to the Rosaceae family, 8 species (7 genera) belong to the Brassicaceae family, 6 species (3 genera) belong to the Orchidaceae family and 5 species (5 genera) belong to the Apiaceae family. The genera represented by the highest number of species in the study are as follows: Sideritis L. is represented by 13 species, Origanum L. by 7 species, Rubus L. by 5 species, Thymus L. by 4 species and Rumex L. by 4 species.
4287780|The bark and wood of the root and stem of this West Indian tree have long been used by the natives of the Antilles as an analgesic, and their several physiological effects have found some use in modern medicine.
4256324| To unravel the market for commercial medicinal plants on the Witwatersrand in South Africa, a semiquantitative approach was taken. A stratified random sample of 50 herb-traders was surveyed, and an inventory of all plants and parts sold was compiled. Research participants were questioned on the scarcity and popularity of the plants traded, as well as suppliers and origins. The rarefaction method established that the sample size was adequate. The diversity of the sample was determined using ecological indices of diversity, and found to be comparatively high. In addition, Spearman rank correlations, chi-squared and Fisher's exact probability tests were used to assess the probability of certain taxa being used. At least 46% of the taxa traded showed a higher than expected probability of being utilized, and taxa tended to be harvested from the largest families proximate to the markets. About 511 species are traded in the region, and there is a low dominance in the use of species. Ethnic and floristic diversity are influential in deciding the trading patterns that have emerged. /// Pour dcouvrir le march commercial des plantes mdicinales et des parties de plantes, nous avons utilis une approche semiquantitative. Un chantillon pris au hasard, de 50 commerces bas sur une connaissance corporative de ce monde spcifique, et un inventaire de toutes les varites de plantes offertes  la vente dans ces chopes a t effectue. Les participants, furent questionns sur la raret et la popularit des plantes  l'talage, ainsi que sur l'origine et les fournisseurs de ces mmes plantes. La mthode base sur la rarfaction indiqua que la taille de l'chantillonage tait adquat. La diversit des chantillons fut dtermin en utilisant les indices cologiques, de diversit et se rvla, en comparaison, important. De plus, la corrlation linaire de Spearman, le test 
4256150| The biological activity and nutritional composition of Chilean collections of Cyttaria berteroi C. darwinii, C. espinosae, C. harioti and C. johowii have been determined. The crude protein, lipid, ash, and carbohydrate content of the samples examined were similar to that of other edible fungi. Amino acid analysis of Chilean Cyttaria showed that proteins of all species are deficient in methionine and cysteine and excepting one C. espinosae collection, all samples proved to be below the WHO values for the essential amino acids valine, isoleucine, leucine, and lysine. The acute oral toxicity test of C. espinosae in rats showed that doses up to 2.5 g extract/kg body weight (corresponding to 25.7-38.7 g fresh weight/kg) did not produce mortality or macroscopic damage in the organs examined of the test animals. Cyttaria extracts assayed at 50 g/ml were inactive or moderately active as inhibitors towards the enzymes xanthine oxidase (0-31%) and -glucuronidase (0-65%), and lacked antifungal and antibacterial effects in a battery of antimicrobial assays. When administered intravenously at 2.5 mg/kg, the water-soluble extract of Cyttaria produced a hypotensive response in rats (-16 to -21%). Furthermore, most of the aqueous extracts of C. espinosae and C. harioti showed DNA binding activity. The main sterols from Cyttaria espinosae and C. berteroi were identified as dihydrobrassicasterol derivatives. Our study suggests that edible Cyttaria species do not represent an acute toxicity risk for consumers and that their nutritional value is similar to that of other edible, cultivated mushrooms. The preservation of Cyttaria spp. as a food resource is linked to the protection of the temperate Nothofagus forests. /// Se determin la composicin proximal y actividad biolgica de colecciones chilenas de Cyttaria berteroi, C. espinosae, C. harioti, C. johowii y C. darwinii. El contenido de protena cruda, lpidos, cenizas y carbohidratos fu similar al de otros hongos comestibles. El anlisis de aminocidos de las muestras chilenas demostr que las protenas de todas las especies de Cyttaria investigadas son deficitarias en metionina y cistena. Exceptuando una coleccin de C. espinosae, los valores de los aminocidos esenciales valina, isoleucina, leucina y lisina de todas las muestras fueron inferiores a los valores recomendados por la OMS. Ensayos de toxicidad aguda de extractos de C. espinosae en ratas demostraron que dosis orales de hasta 2.5 g extracto por kg de peso (correspondientes a 25.7-38.7 g peso fresco/kg) no producan mortalidad ni dao macroscpico observable en los rganos examinados en las necropsias. Los extractos de Cyttaria fueron inactivos o moderadamente activos al ensayarse como inhibidores de las enzimas xantina oxidasa y -glucuronidasa a 50 g/ml. En una batera de ensayos antimicrobianos, los extractos fueron inactivos. Al administrarse en forma intravenosa a 2.5 mg/kg, los extractos hidrosolubles produjeron una respuesta hipotensora importante en ratas. Los esteroides mayoritarios de Cyttaria espinosae y C. berteroi se identificaron como derivados del dihidrobrasicasterol. Este estudio sugiere que las especies comestibles de Cyttaria no representan un riesgo de toxicidad aguda para sus consumidores y que su valor nutritivo es similar al de otros hongos comestibles cultivados. La preservacin de Cyttaria spp. como una fuente de alimentos y posiblemente compuestos bioactivos est ligada a la proteccin de los bosques templados de Nothofagus. 
4288005|The use of the kernels of Simarouba glauca as a potential source of vegetable oil was first noted in 1939. These kernels produce 62 per cent edible oil under commercial extraction procedures. The trees are polygamo-dioecious, thus creating a selection problem for commercial plantings. A progress report of investigations on the botany, propagation, selection, insect pests, and diseases is given.
4254502|Two species of Echinochloa are grown as cereals. Echinochloa crusgalli is native to temperate Eurasia and was domesticated in Japan some 4,000 yr ago. Echinochloa colona is widely distributed in the tropics and subtropics of the Old World. It was domesticated in India. Echinochloa colona is morphologically allied to E. crusgalli, but hybrids between them are sterile. Echinochloa colona differs consistently from E. crusgalli in having smaller spikelets with membranaceous rather than chartaceous glumes. Hybrids between wild and cultivated taxa of E. colona and between those of E. crusgalli are fertile. Cultivated E. colona is variable. It is grown as a cereal across India, Kashmir and Sikkim. Four morphological races are recognized, although these do not have geographical, ecological or ethnological unity. Race laxa is confined to Sikkim where races robusta, intermedia and stolonifera are also grown. In India, races robusta, intermedia and stolonifera are often grown as mixtures, and Echinochloa is sometimes grown as a mixture with other cereals, particularly Setaria italica (foxtail millet) or Eleusine coracana (finger millet). The species is planted on poor soil, and some cultivars mature in less than 2 mo. They hold considerable promise as cereals for the semiarid tropics.
4254847|Tetraploid Grindelia camporum was selected for increased crude resin yield for a period of 2 yr. The observed response to selection, 0.8% of the aboveground dry weight/yr, was highly significant. Differences in resin yield between plants at different phenological stages were also highly significant. The selected line showed some signs of inbreeding depression in comparison to a control line, including lower dry-weight production and higher mortality.
4255804| An ethnobotanical study was carried out in the region of Campos de Njar, comprising Cabo de Gata-Njar Nature Park and neighboring zones. The geology of the region combined with its location in the South East of the Iberian Peninsula, the most arid area of Europe, has resulted in the presence of a flora rich in endemic and North African elements rare in Europe. Socioculturally, it is a uniform region characterized by its population living in a multitude of nuclei, each with few inhabitants. The field work was based on 221 interviews with inhabitants of the region with knowledge of the plants and their uses. Information was compiled on the use of 253 taxa with a total of 558 medicinal and 240 other uses. We present a summary of the study with data on the uses of 98 species mentioned at least three times by the interviewees. /// Se ha realizado un estudio etnobotnico en la comarca denominada Campos de Njar, abarcando el Parque Natural de Cabo de Gata-Nijar y otras zonas aneias. La naturaleza geolgica de la comarca, as como su situacin en el sureste ibrico, la zona ms rida de Europa, ha condicionado una flora rica en elementos endmicos y norteafricanos, raros en Europa. Desde el punto de vista sociocultural constituye una comarca continua y uniforme, caracterizada por una poblacin disgregada en mltiples ncleos de pocos habitantes. El trabajo de campo se apoya en 221 entrevistas con los habitantes de la zona conocedores de las plantas y sus usos, recogiendo informacin sobre la utilizacin de 253 taxones, con un total de 558 usos medicinales y 240 usos diversos. En este trabajo presentamos un extracto del estudio con datos relativos al uso de 98 especies referidas en tres o ms de tres 
4251927|Not yet exploited in the Western Hemisphere, this jute-like African fiber possesses commercial possibilities and is obtained from a plant that furnishes also edible fleshy calyces and oil-containing seeds.
4253975|Native to Brazil, Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi, of the family Anacardiaceae, has been commonly cultivated in Florida for over 50 years as a dooryard ornamental. Use of its sprays of showy red fruits for Christmas decoration gave rise to the popular misnomer "Florida holly." Too late it was found to become a large, spreading tree; aggressive seedlings began springing up near and far. Jungles of Schinus have crowded out native vegetation over vast areas of Florida and the Bahamas, as in all the islands of Hawaii. When in bloom, the tree is a major source of respiratory difficulty and dermatitis; the fruits, in quantity, intoxicate birds and cause fatal trauma in four-footed animals. The abundant nectar yields a spicy commercial honey and beekeepers are opposed to eradication programs.
4256866| The authors located and experimentally reproduced an alcoholic beverage using Schinus molle L. drupes to explain the presence of large quantities of S. molle seeds in archaeological contexts associated with the Middle Horizon (550-1000 C.E.) site of Cerro Bal, Moquegua, Per. They discuss the production of chicha de molle in the context of the archaeological site, the ecology of the plant, and the ethnobotany associated with S. molle in the Andes. Overall, S. molle was and is used today in a variety of ways regionally, and through both ethnobotanical and archaeological fieldwork, they establish a long-standing tradition of human-plant interactions with S. molle. 
4255687| In Western Friuli, Italy, there is a small area near the town of Pordenone where an ancient rite of spring is still carried out. This is the preparation of a special dish, known as "pistic," a collection of 56 wild herbaceous meadow and wood plants which are boiled and then sauted together. This practice is still alive in a few areas of Friuli today and possibly goes back to pre-Roman Celtic cultures in this part of Friuli. The number of herbaceous plants used in this dish is extraordinarily high (56), especially when compared to the low number normally used in other conventional dishes. "Pistic" is therefore important, not only because it represents a quantitatively high use of wild herbs in the diet of the rural population, but also because it reflects environmental awareness, in that the archaic method of naming, identifying and using these plants still exists today. Similar rural practices include the use of "pot herbs" in Great Britain and in France the cooking of "mesclun." / Dans le Val Colvera, dans l'ouest de Frioule, au nord-est de l'Italie, il existe une petite rgion, prs de la ville de Pordenone o un ancien rituel printanier a toujours cours. Il s'agit de la prparation d'un plat spcial, connu sous le nom del "Pistic,"  base de 56 espces herbaces sauvages des prs et des bois, qui sont bouillies, puis rissoles ensemble. Cette pratique est toujours vivante dans quelques rgions du Frioule et il est possible de la retrouver jusque dans les cultures celtique, pre-romaines, qui une et des actives dans cette partie du Frioule. Le nombre d'espces herbaces utilises est exceptionnellement lev (56), spcialement quand on le compare au nombre normalement bas d'espces utilises dans d'autres plats. Le Pistic est donc important, non seulement parce quil reprsente un usage important d'herbes sauvages dans le rgime des populations rurales, mais aussi parce que la nomenclature archaque, utilise encore actuellement pour identifier ces plantes est toujours en usage, reflte une sensibilit a l'environment. 
4256931|Four hundred years of chile (Capsicum annuum var. annuum) cultivation, together with concerns about losing genetic resources in their native agrohabitats, provide the pretext for collecting and preserving landraces of this species in New Mexico. The molecular analysis of these accessions provided a powerful means by which their genetic structures were characterized. Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) molecular markers were used to compare the relative genetic diversity of native chile landraces to the genetic diversity found in commercially available cultivars in the United States as well as landraces from Mexico.
4255211| Forty-one wild types and 41 cultivars of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) from Meso- and South America were screened for variability of phaseolin seed protein using one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS/PAGE) and two-dimensional isoelectric focusing SDS/PAGE. Wild accessions from the Andean region showed phaseolin types which had not been previously identified in wild material from that region. Other wild accessions from Argentina exhibited novel phaseolin patterns collectively designated as 'J' ('Jujuy') phaseolin types, and one accession from northern Peru exhibited a novel phaseolin type, the 'I' ('Inca') type. The 'H' and 'C' phaseolins, previously identified only in cultivars, were observed in several wild accessions from Argentina. Among cultivars, two minor variants of the 'S' phaseolin type were identified. The 'Sb' ('S Brazil') was characteristic of a limited number of cultivars from Brazil whereas the 'Sd' ('S Durango 222') predominated in cultivars of the Mexican central highlands. The distribution of the previously described 'B' phaseolin appeared to be larger than formerly known as it extended not only in Colombia but also in Central America. It is possible to correlate the 'Sb', 'Sd', and 'B' phaseolin types with certain agronomic traits. /// La variabilidad de faseolina, la proteina principal de la semilla, fue analizada en una muestra de 41 formas silvestres y 41 formas cultivadas del frjol comn (Phaseolus vulgaris) de Meso- y Suramrica mediante electroforesis a una y dos dimensiones en gelos de poliacrilamida con dodecil sulfato de sodio (SDS/PAGE). Las formas silvestres de la regin andina ensearon tipos de faseolina que no haban sido identificados anteriormente en material silvestre de esta regin. Formas silvestres de Argentina mostraron varios tipos nuevos de faseolina que fueron llamados tipos 'J' ('Jujuy') y una accesin silvestre del norte de Peru mostr un tipo nuevo que fu llamado el tipo 'I' ('Inca'). Dentro de las formas cultivadas, dos formas variantes de la faseolina 'S' fueron identificadas. El tipo 'Sb' ('S Brazil') fu caracterstico de un nmero limitado de variedades de Brasil, mientras el tipo 'Sd' ('S Durango 222') predominaba en variedades del altiplano central de Mxico. La distribucin de la faseolina 'B' descrita previamente parece ser ms amplia que lo que se haba determinado anteriormente ya que se encuentra no solamente en Colombia pero tambin en Amrica Central. Es posible correlacionar los tipos de faseolina 'Sb', 'Sd', y 'B' con ciertos rasgos agronmicos. 
4255334| Foreign assistance helps developing countries to achieve economic growth through wise use of natural resources. Conservation interventions and sustainable use of natural resources play a central role in this development. Conservation and utilization of genetic resources have traditionally proceeded as separate approaches. A conceptual approach to project design is presented encouraging greater interaction between those conserving crop genetic resources and those seeking their economic application in a sound land-use management plan. Projects illustrating this approach are being supported by the Agency for International Development. They suggest a paradigm for research and development allowing interdisciplinary activities targeting sustainable agriculture development. /// La ayuda extranjera contribuye a que los pases en desarrollo logren un crecimiento econmico a travs del uso apropriado de sus recursos naturales. La intervencin en la conservacin y el uso sostenible de recursos naturales debe desempear un papel primordial en este desarrollo. La conservacin y utilizacion de recursos genticos tradicionalmente se ha considerado como enfoques separados. Presentamos un enfoque conceptual para proyectar el diseo, estimulando mayor interaccin entre esos recursos de productos geneticos de conservacin y aquellos que buscan su aplicacin econmica en un plan bien fundamentado de administracin en el uso de la tierra. La Agncia para el Desarrollo Internacionl apoya proyectos que ilustran este sistema. Se sugiere un paradigma para la investigacion y el desarrollo permitiendo en estos proyectos actividades interdisciplinarias que enfoquen el desarrollo de una agricultura sostenible. 
4254830|Vernonia galamensis is a good source of seed oil rich in epoxy acid, which can be used to manufacture plastic formulations, protective coatings, and other products. Seed from a natural stand in Ethiopia contained 31% epoxy acid. Under cultivation in Kenya, this unimproved germplasm produced a substantial yield of seed with 32% epoxy acid. This African species has good natural seed retention and is a promising new crop for semiarid tropical areas.
4256057|Gaz is one of the most popular traditional sweets in Iran. Although millions of people enjoy it, the vast majority is completely unaware that this confection is made with a sweetening agent, gaz of Khunsar, exuded by the last instar nymph of a small insect (Cyamophila astragalicola Gegechkori, Psyllidae) and collected from a spiny shrub (Astragalus adscendens Boiss. & Haussk., Leguminosae) which grows wild in western central Iran. For those who enjoy it, the pleasant flavor of gaz is sufficient in itself, but for scientists the story of this fructose-rich exudate is more interesting. / [Abstract in Arabica]
4251886|This cementing substance between the cells of all plants is economically valuable as a jellifying, stabilizing, emulsifying and binding agent, and is extracted for those purposes principally from apple pomace and citrus peels.
4287899|There is evidence to indicate that certain soil fungi contribute some unknown compounds to plants, which in turn bestow varying degrees of disease-resistance upon animals feeding on vegetable material.
4254728|The giant rock bee, Apis dorsata, of Asia is a migratory and ferocious wild bee, which has not yet been tamed. It is the chief source of honey and beeswax in the Andaman region besides being an important pollinating agent. Smoking the nests, which destroys the bees and their brood, has been the only method of honey extraction practised from ancient times. The negrito Onge tribals of Little Andaman use the sap of Orophea katschallica to repel the bees while extracting honey from the hives. Dutta and associates (1983) reported that the sap of Amomum aculeatum, an herb growing in dense tropical forests of South Andaman, acts as a tranquiliser for these bees; with the aid of this sap, honey can be harvested from their hives by natives without protective apparel while the bees remain docile. Further, the hives can be bagged in nylon nettings and transported to desired sites to establish apiaries. A second discovery of similar bee-tranqulising properties in the sap of Zingiber squarrosum of the same habitat is reported here. The pheromoneallomone relationships and economic implications are briefly discussed.
4254968| Prehistoric remains of coca (Erythroxylum spp.) are rarely uncovered by archaeologists or positively identified by botanists because of their fragile nature and the lack of rigorous archaeological collection techniques. This absence of plant evidence has made evolutionary studies of diffusion and use of coca difficult. From special depositional conditions in the Mantaro area of central Peru, one coca leaf and two endocarps have been uncovered and identified as Erythroxylum coca var. coca. These three specimens came from elite-status contexts dating to the Late Intermediate and the Late Horizon-Early Colonial Periods. These remains provide the first highland evidence for access to coca-producing, ceja de montaa farms, which lie more than 50 km away on the eastern slope of the Andes. 
4257168|This study of changes in agrobiodiversity documents the domesticated species and, to a limited degree, the landraces, cultivated in the Siwa oasis of Egypt in 1919, 1924, 1968-1969, and 2004-2006. Siwa is ecogeographically and culturally isolated by more than 300 kilometers (km) from other agrarian communities and, perhaps because of this, detailed observations were made there by a number of agricultural scientists and geographers in a way that provides time-series data lacking from many other agrarian landscapes. Although I have drawn upon Siwan names for crops first published in 1890, this report may be the first substantive record of Tasiwit (Eastern Berber) folk names for traditional crops that allows ethno-linguistic comparisons with Cairene Arabic and other Northern Berber (Tamazight) dialects in North Africa. The perennial crop inventory of Siwan Berbers has remained relatively stable through time and few traditionally cultivated annual species or landraces have been lost. However, additional crop species from other parts of Egypt have been adopted since a paved road was completed to Siwa in 1986 and more Awlad Ali Bedouins have settled and begun dooryard gardens. The reasons for the relative stability of Siwan agrobiodiversity are discussed, and may relate to both the need for crop ecotypes adapted to the challenging alkaline conditions found in Siwan agroecosystems and Siwan pride in and adherence to its traditional cuisine.
4253815|Nine secondary pollen types (those comprising 16-45% of the pollen sample) were recovered from 54 honey samples (10 g) collected from the major beekeeping areas of Louisiana. The pollen types in order of decreasing importance are: Berchemia scandens, rattan vine; Rubus spp., blackberry and dewberry; Salix spp., willow; Trifolium repens, white clover; Glycine max, soybean; Parthenocissus quinquefolia, Virginia creeper; Rosaceae, rose family; Cephalanthus occidentalis, buttonbush; and Cornus spp., dogwood. The first four secondary types also appeared as dominant pollen (over 45%) in some of the Louisiana honey samples investigated and were previously reported. The remaining five pollen types and the "bee plants" associated with each pollen type are identified and described.
4254834|Of the 47 medicinal plants that originate from the Sierra Madre Occidental of Chihuahua, Mexico, and that are sold in Chihuahuan markets, about three-fifths are used in a similar manner by both the urban Mexicans and the Tarahumara. This pattern suggests that these plants produce satisfactory effects on certain human systems, are reliable, and hence are repeatedly employed by both ethnic groups. Such plants that are used for similar ailments by 2 cultural groups with different ethnomedical concepts may be of interest for intensive research.
4255718| A yellowish-green, compact (rather like a cauliflower), resinous cushion shrub, the llareta, Azorella compacta (Embelliferae) occurs in the high Andes of southern Peru, Bolivia, northeastern Chile and northwestern Argentina. Now endangered through excessive cutting for fuel, it is widely used in local medicines and may even have a pharmaceutical potential for treating diabetes. / Un arbusto compacto, cojinoso (algo como una coliflor), resinoso, de color verde-amarilloso, la llareta, Azorella compacta (Umbelliferae) se encuentra en los altos Andes del sur Perano, en Bolivia, y en el oriente norte de Chile y oeste norte de Argentina. Hoy en dia la planta est en peligro por cuenta de cortante excessivo para lea, pero es usada extensiblente en medicina local y possiblemente tiene potencial farmacutico por el tratamiento de diabetes. 
4252126|In 1904 the American Consul General at Hankow, China sent seed of tung (Aleurites fordii) to the U. S. Dept. of Agriculture at Chico, California. One tree planted near Tallahassee, Florida in 1907, produced a crop of fruit in 1913, from which the first 2.2 gallons of American tung oil were extracted. By 1930, nearly 8000 acres of tung orchard had been planted in Florida, and extensive plantings were made in Mississippi and Louisiana. By 1938 there were approximately 200,000 acres of tung orchards in the southeastern United States. Today the tung industry is hard-pressed to meet competition from substitutes and from importations. American tung growers are striving to get their industry on a sound economic basis by lowering their cost of production and widening the market for tung oil.
4255251| This paper describes the ethnobotanical importance of nine gymnosperms common in temperate regions of Garhwal Himalaya, India. Folklore claims of these plants were obtained during field studies. For each plant its popular name, local name, and manner of use are described. /// Cette tude dcrit l'importance ethnobotanique des neuf gymnospermes ordinaires de la rgion tmpere du Garhwal Himalaya, Indes. Les demandes folklorique de celles-ci plantes s'obtiennent de travaux pratiques. Pour chaque plante le nom populaire, le nom local, et le mode d'usage sont dcrits. 
4253773|We have surveyed the distribution of plants in the northeastern United States that contain cyanogenic compounds. Approximately 200 species of plants from 45 families are known to contain compounds capable of liberating hydrogen cyanide upon hydrolysis. These are primarily found in the Gramineae, Ranunculaceae and the Rosaceae. The chemical structures compounds of the cyanogens have been studied in only a small number of the species included, and investigation of the biology and chemistry of these plants should prove especially profitable.
4255595| An ethanol extract of Achillea millefolium L. showed repelling properties against the mosquito, Aedes aegypti L. Prepared fractions from the extract contained several active compounds which were characterized by thin layer chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography, gas chromatography and mass spectroscopy. Of 35 compounds tested, the most active were the nitrogen containing compound stachydrine, the carboxylic acids, caffeic, chlorogenic, and salicylic acids, and the phenolic compound pyrocatechol. These substances are earlier reported to occur in A. millefolium with the exception of pyrocatechol. Some further substances with lower activity were characterized for the first time in A. millefolium, i.e., adenine, ferulic and mandelic acid, and the methyl esters of caprylic-, linolenic- and undecylenic acid. / Der Ethanolextrakt von A. millefolium zeigte abwehrende Eigenschaften gegen die Mcke Aedes aegypti L. Die aus diesem Extrakt hergestellten Fraktionen enthielten mehrere aktive Verbindungen, die mittels Dnnschichtchromatographie, Gaschromatographie und Massenspektrometrie charakterisiert wurden. Von den 35 untersuchten Substanzen waren die stickstoffhaltige Verbindung Stachydrin, die sauren Verbindungen Kaffe-, Chlorogen- und Salicylsure sowie das Brenzcatechin die aktivsten. Diese Substanzen sind mit Ausnahme des Brenzcatechins schon frher aus A. millefolium beschrieben worden. Weiterhin wurden Adenin, Ferula- und Mandelsure sowie die Methylestern der Capryl-, Linolen- und Undecylensure als schwcher aktive Substanzen zum ersten Mal aus A. millefolium charakterisiert. 
4257115| Glucosinolates (GSL) present in cultivated and feral accessions of mashua (Tropaeolum tuberosum Ruz & Pavn) were identified and quantified by High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) analysis. The main glucosinolates detected were aromatic: 4-Hydroxybenzyl GSL (OHB, Glucosinalbin), Benzyl GSL (B, Glucotropaeolin), and m-Methoxybenzyl GSL (MOB, Glucolimnathin). The total amount of GSL observed ranged from 0.27 to 50.74 micromols per gram (Mol/g) of dried tuber tissue. Most of the low-content GSL accessions are distributed within the cultivated population with a total GSL concentration lower than 5.00 Mol/g of dried tuber tissue. The highest total and specific GSL (OHB, B, and MOB) contents (more than 25.00 Mol/g of dried tuber tissue) were observed in the feral population with few exceptions. In addition, only six different GSL profiles were found: Only MOB; only B; OHB and B; OHB and MOB; B and MOB; and OHB, B and MOB. /// Se identific y cuantific mediante "High Performance Liquid Chromatograph" los glucosinolatos (GSL) presentes en mashua cultivada (Tropaeolum tuberosum Ruz & Pavn) y sus parientes silvestres. Los compuestos principales descubiertos fueron los siguentes glucosinolatos aromticos: 4-Hydroxybenzyl GSL (OHB, Glucosinalbin), Benzyl GSL (B, Glucotropaeolin) y m-Methoxybenzyl GSL (MOB, Glucolimnathin). El contenido total de GSL fluctu entre 0.27 a 50.74 Mol/g de tejido del tubrculo seco. La mayora de las accesiones con bajo contenido de GSL estuvieron distribuidos dentro de la poblacin cultivada con una concentracin total de GSL menor a 5.00 Mol/g de tejido del tubrculo seco, mientras que el mas alto contenido total (ms de 25.00 Mol/g de tejido del tubrculo seco) y la mas alta concentracin de GSL individuales (OHB, B y MOB) se observ en la poblacin silvestre con pocas excepciones. Adems, seis fenotipos de GSL diferentes fueron determinados: Slo MOB; slo B; OHB y B; OHB y MO; B y MOB; y OHB, B y MOB. 
4287803|In Economic Botany and other literature on the subject, frequent references are made, but without explanation, to various chemical and physical steps in the industrial utilization of plants and plant products. In this article some of those steps are described and important applications of them noted.
4253822|Much work has been done on the agricultural potential of Jojoba, but little on the anatomy of the mature plant or seed. Our investigations concern the structure of the embryo of mature seeds and their external morphology during early germination. The embryo is straight and investing. A hypocotyl sheath surrounds the radicle like a hollow cone. The apical meristem is a low mound of cells in a shallow depression between the broad short petioles of the cotyledons. During germination these petioles lengthen and force the embryo away from the coytledons and seed coat. The hypocotyl elongates and the primary root rapidly extends and is well developed before the apical meristem becomes active. A mature imbibed seed contains approximately fifty percent liquid wax. After germination there is a linear decrease in the amount of wax to approximately ten percent at thirty days.
4256771| In coastal and highland Peru, totora, Schoenoplectus californicus (C. A. Meyer) Sojk (Cyperaceae), has played a central cultural role. Totora was used to build boats, houses, bridges, mats, containers, clothing, string, and fans and has been noted for its use as both food (for humans and livestock) and fertilizer. We conducted unstructured interviews in Spanish and followed participant observation methods in Huanchaco and Lake Titicaca located in coastal and highland Peru, respectively. We hypothesized that a plant with high saliency to the local culture would have a high level of associated indigenous conservation practices. In addition, the level of care and management should increase as the resource became more valued or increasingly scarce. We found that, despite a long established tradition of sustainable use, the people were increasingly relying on intensive cultivation of this plant. The value of totora to local residents justified the efforts spent in maintaining adequate supplies of this plant. Increases in population, politics, and yearly variation in climate patterns have created a reduction in available totora and contributed to an increase in management practices. /// La totora, Schoenoplectus californicus (C. A. Meyer) Sojk (Ciperceas) ha tenido un rol central y cultural en la costa y en la sierra del Per. La totora ha sido utilizada para construir balsas, casas, puentes, esteras, cajas, cuerdas, y abanicos. Tambin, se ha notado el uso de la totora como fuente de alimentacin (para el hombre y el ganado) y fertilizante. Pronosticamos que una planta de gran importancia en la cultura local, estara sumamente ligada con prcticas indgenas de conservacin. Asimismo, pronosticamos que el nivel de cuidado y manejo de totora aumentara si este recurso fuera ms valorado o fuera disminuyendo paulatinamente. Realizamos entrevistas inestructuradas en Espaol e hicimos un seguimiento utilizando mtodos de participacin y observacin en Huanchaco, Trujillo y en el Lago Titicaca, Puno. Encontramos que a pesar de que ha existido una larga tradicin de uso sostenible de la totora, la gente ha incrementado su dependencia en la totora, intensificado su cultivo. Para los residentes locales, el valor de la totora, justifica los esfuerzos invertidos en mantener una adecuada reserva de esta planta. Pero el aumento de la poblacin, los problemas politicos, y la variacin anual de patrones climticos, han creado una reduccin en la disponibilidad de la totora y a su vez han contribuido al aumento de prcticas de manejo y conservacin de la totora. 
4254936|The Gidra-speaking Papuans of the Oriomo Plateau, lowland Papua New Guinea, consume ash of two tree species (Melaleuca sp. and Acacia mangium) as a native salt. The ashes contain 100-200 mg sodium/g ash, which is very much higher than the sodium levels in native plant ashes (except for the swamp herb Eriocaulon australe) collected in other regions of the world.
4256423|We investigated the use of plants collected in the wild by a small farming community in Central Panama to document the importance of noncultivated plants by tropical, nonforest-dwelling, nonindigenous people. We visited the community to observe what wood was used to build houses and interviewed local people about medicinal and edible plants collected in the wild state. The community reported use of 119 noncultivated plant species, including 108 tree species, three shrubs, two herbs, four lianas, and two vines. The majority (71) of the species were used for building homes. Other products built with wood collected in the wild were diverse kinds of tools, containers, cages, and fences. The second most important use of wild plants, in terms of number of species, was firewood, for which 40 species were mentioned by the community. Other uses included fruit for human consumption (20 species). Most of the species (82 of 119) were collected in secondary forests near the community, whereas another large group (47 species) were collected in mature forest. Fewer species were harvested in shrubby regrowth or from isolated trees in farm land. Nearly all the species (111 of 119) were native to the area, and never cultivated locally, but 15 species were considered especially valuable, and were often protected when found as juveniles. Only six of the species are commonly used in reforestation programs in Panama. We conclude that even hispanic communities in tropical Latin America, living outside the forest, with no Amer-indian inhabitants, make frequent use of the great diversity of trees native to the region.
4255916| Jaborandi (Pilocarpus sp.;) is a shrub or small tree 3-7.5 m tall that can be found in native stands or as isolated individuals throughout Brazil. The leaves of jaborandi contain the alkaloid pilocarpine, widely used in ophthalmology for treatment of certain types of glaucoma and more recently for xerostomia. This paper discusses the current systems of production of jaborandi leaves in Maranho, Northeastern Brazil. On one side, the extractivism practices by indigenous people and peasants; on the other, the plantation recently established, as the result of heavy investment by a pharmaceutical company. In the extractive system, the non-sustainable exploitation of the drug-rich leaves of this plant species may have produced considerable damage to the native populations over time, reducing the size of the populations, and impoverishing their gene pools. The following potential effects of the plantation are discussed; contribute to diminishing the pressure on wild populations; impact on the local people currently involved in the extractivism; and its impacts on the local economies. /// Jaborandi (Pilocarpus sp.)  um arbusto ou arvoreta de 3-7.5 m de altura, que pode ser encontrado em formaes nativas ou como indviduos isolados em vrias partes do Brazil. As folhas do jaborandi contm o alcalide pilocarpina, largamente utilizado em oftalmologia, no tratamento de certos tipos de glaucoma. Este trabalho mostra vrios aspectos dos atuais sistemas de produo de folhas de jaborandi no Maranho, Nordeste do Brasil. De um lado, o sistema extrativista praticado por comunidades indigenas e camponeses; do outro, a plantao, recentemente implantada como resultado de significativo investimento por parte de uma industria farmacutica, buscando domesticao desta espcie nativa. No sistema extrativista, a explorao extrativa das folhas de jaborandi pode estar produzindo danos considerveis s populaes nativas, reduzindo o tamanho dessas populaes e empobrecendo suas bases genticas. A plantao, por outro lado, levanta questes em relao  sua contribuio para diminuir a presso sobre as populaes nativas, sobre o futuro do povo atualmente envolvido no extrativismo, e os seus efeitos na economia local. 
4256363| Mida Creek (Kenya) comprises mangrove forests and other marine resources that are of economic, ecological, and environmental importance to the local village communities. In total 116 households (100 of which could be used for numerical analysis), which are estimated to correspond to a coverage of ca. 30% of the total Mida Creek population, were interviewed to assess the human reliance on mangrove resources in Mida Creek. The survey indicates that mangroves are a major resource of wood for house construction, fuel wood, charcoal, and boat building. Minor uses of mangrove products include pharmaceutical and medicinal applications, tanning material, and furniture making. Rhizophora mucronata, Ceriops tagal, and Bruguiera gymnorrhiza are the major resources for house construction and fuel wood, while Sonneratia alba and Xylocarpus granatum were reported to be useful for boat building and medicinal uses respectively. The survey further describes harvesting activities and house construction, and reveals species preferences within this one particular use. As a result of depletion of the supply and the banning of mangrove harvesting, the local people are turning to other wood materials and to poaching. In our view, local utilization patterns rather than global usefulness data are required to establish a conservation policy of both mangroves and users' subsistence requirements. /// La ensenada de Mida (Kenya) posee bosques de manglar y otros recursos marinos de importancia econmica, ecolgica y ambiental para las comunidades de los pueblos. En total 116 hogares (100 de los cuales podran ser usados para anlisis numricos) corresponden a una cobertura total del 24% de la totalidad de la poblacin de ensenada de Mida. El sondeo indica que los manglares son la mayor fuente de madera para la construccin de casas y botes, combustible y carbn de madera. Usos menores de los productos de manglar incluyen aplicaciones farmacuticas y medicinales, material de teido y muebles. Rhizophora mucronata, Ceriops tagal y Brugeuiera gymnorrhiza son las principales fuentes para combustible y construccin de casas, mientras que Sonneratia alba y Xylocarpus granatum fueron reportados como aptos para la construccin de botes y usos medicinales respectivamente. El sondeo describe adicionalmente actividades de consecha y construccin de casas revelando preferencias de especies para este caso en particular. Como resultado de la destruccin del recurso y la prohibicin de la cosecha de mangle, los pobladores se han inclinado por el uso de otras maderas y a la pesca furtiva. Consideramos que se requieren patrones de utilizacin local ms que datos globales para establecer una poltica de conservacin de manglares y requerimientos para la subsistencia de los usuarios. 
4255834| Seed and leaf extracts of Mammea americana (mamey apple) have a historical use as a biopesticide with the active components previously characterized. We reexamined the utility of this natural bioinsecticide in light of existing sources of material as a by-product of the fruit processing industry. Our results add Diabrotica virgifera virgifera and Trichoplusia ni to the list of insects which are susceptible to the insecticidal ingredients of M. americana and confirms earlier reports of activity against Blatella germanica, Periplaneta americana, and Plutella xylostella. We report LD50s for crude hexane extracts of M. americana leaves and seeds against T. ni. These materials represent renewable sources of bioinsecticides for agriculture, and should regenerate interest in coumarin-type compounds for novel pesticidal action. /// Extractos de semilla y hoja de Mammea americana han sido tradicionalmente usados como biopesticidas, los componentes activos de los cuales fueron caracterizados previamente. Nosotros hemos reexaminado la utilidad de este bioinsecticida natural debido a la existencia de fuentes de este material como un derivado de la industria de procesamiento de fruta. Nuestros resultados aaden Diabrotica virgifera virgifera y Trichoplusia ni a la lista de insectos susceptibles a los ingredientes insecticidas de M. americana, y confirman anteriores informes de actividad contra Blatella germanica, Periplaneta americana, y Plutella xylostella En este artculo tambin presentamos las LD
4253466|Thomas Lynch (1971) has recently attempted to document the fact that the preceramic hunter-gatherers of Peru were mobile throughout a range of altitudinal zones and that the fields of movement of these preceramic populations may well have been continuous, since the members of each group exploited the resources of different habitats in terms of regular annual cycles. However, it is equally clear that these long, linear fields of the preceramic populations began to be fragmented at some point in time. We believe that the termination of the proposed period of transhumance constitutes an extremely interesting problem. At the present time this feature has been discussed only in terms of data from the Peruvian coast. In this paper we employ some of Lynch's data and observations in an attempt to demonstrate (1) that a minimum of modification of the preceramic pattern of food procurement within the highlands was required to convert hunter-gatherers into food producers; and (2) wild tubers played a crucial role in this process.
4256744|The communities of Tsehlanyane and Bokong depend on subsistence agriculture and harvesting natural resources for a variety of needs, mainly firewood, handcrafts, medicine, food, construction, and socio-cultural amenities. They have done so since time immemorial and are singularly responsible for the good conservation value that the area represents. The area has the longest history of conservation championed by a local traditional authority in Lesotho. From December 1999 to March 2000 we conducted a survey that was aimed at making an inventory of resources, on which people rely, that will be affected by the establishment of a biosphere reserve linking the Tsehlanyane National Park and the Bokong Nature Reserve. In the survey, 149 households were sampled representing a sampling intensity of 19% in both communities. One hundred forty-seven species of plants were mentioned, falling into 51 families with the most commonly used families being Asteraceae, Liliaceae sens. lat. and Poaceae. The study also revealed that tenurial rights on these resources are communal and usufructuary and are increasingly being undermined by commercialization that relegate resources to an open access system. The study identified six main use categories, namely, firewood, handcrafts, medicinals, wild fruits, wild vegetables, and miscellaneous uses. Finally, the study demonstrated that ethnobotanical knowledge is widely held in Lesotho with the traditional doctors being the major repositories.
4256396| Information on richness of plant resources, and their forms of use and management in the biosphere reserve Tehuacn-Cuicatln, Mexico is analyzed. This 10 000 km
4254569|Although the ostrich fern, Matteuccia struthiopteris, is distributed throughout much of the Northern Hemisphere, its consumption as a spring vegetable has been largely restricted to the tables of the Maritime Provinces in Canada and neighboring Maine in the United States. However, in little more than a decade the demand has expanded beyond these traditional boundaries, due to the present availability of the frozen product. The heart of the industry is undoubtedly New Brunswick. The harvest of 200 t/yr is approximately 4 times that of Maine, and from an historical vantage the traditional use as a spring vegetable is with the New Brunswickers as well. In light of the present high demand for the product and the reports of localized overpicking, a review of the economic history, resource management and attempts at cultivation is presented.
4256364|Arhorchin Mongol herdsmen are one of the tribal and regional groups of the Mongol nationality still engaged in traditional animal husbandry in the grassland areas of eastern Inner Mongolia at present. There are 77 species of wild plants used in their diet. An ethnobotanical inventory is presented, which includes the botanical names, folk names, parts used, usage, and the numbers of voucher specimens. Distinctive national features of the use of wild plants in their diet are expressed in the aspects that the Arhorchin Mongol herdsmen integrate to wild plants with their traditional diet and bromatherapy. Traditional usage may be used to exploit patterns of wild food plants in grassland areas.
4255715| Asian rice is an important grain, not only in its homeland but in many areas of the world. Identifying rice in the archaeological record is a challenge, especially in the moist tropics, where organic materials preserve only when charred. Phytolith analysis, the identification of opaline silica bodies, provides an alternative method for identifying this important crop. Results of our research suggest that Oryza contributes phytoliths that are genus-specific, that bulliform characteristics alone do not permit separation of wild and domesticated Oryza in regions where species overlap, and that a number of phytolith types, especially silicified glumes, show promise for separating wild from domesticated forms. With further research it should be possible to identify rice through its phytolith assemblage in archaeological soils in the heartland of its domestication and use. / Le riz d'Asie est une crale importante, non seulement dans son pays d'origine, mais  travers le monde. L'identification du riz dand les donnes archaologiques prsente des problmes, surtout dans les tropiques humides o les restes organiques ne se conservent qu' l'tat brul. L'analyze phytolitique-identification de particules de silica opalis-fournit une mthode alternative qui permet l'tude de cette crale importante. Nos recherches suggrent que Oryza produit des phytolithes qui sont identifiables au niveau du genre, que les charactristiques bulliformes seules ne permettent pas de faire la distinction entre l'Oryza sauvage et domestiqu dans les rgions o les espces se chevauchent, et que plusieurs sortes de phytolithes, surtout les glumes silicifies promettent de pouvoir sparer les formes sauvages des formes domestiques. Avec des recherches supplmentaires, il devrait tre possible d'identifier le riz grce  son assemblage phytolithique obtenu de sols archaologiques provenant du centre de sa domestication et de son usage. / [Abstract in Chinese] 
4255838| It is generally assumed that the sustained extraction and processing of non-timber forest products by local people can enhance their cash income and provide an alternative to tropical deforestation. However, the degree to which such products actually or may potentially contribute to rural incomes is poorly documented. We present the results of a study that seeks to evaluate the reliance of an indigenous group on non-timber forest products for cash income. Furthermore, we examine the effect of household variables on the cash income derived from collection and the price appreciation of non-timber forest products. These products account for nearly half of the gross annual income earned by the Soliga households in the Biligiri Rangan Hills of the Karnataka State in South India. Econometric models indicate that although income derived from the extraction of non-timber forest products is high in proportion to the time devoted to the collection, the extraction is not a preferred vocation. Furthermore, price appreciation for non-timber forest products varies for different products and, overall, the Soligas obtain essentially minimal wages for their extractive efforts. We discuss possible mechanisms for enhancement of Soligas' income and the involvement of Soligas in conservation efforts. /// Extrao de produtos florestais no madereiros nas florestas de Biligiri Rangan Hills, India. 1. Contribuio  renda rural. E'de conhecimento geral que a extrao sustentvel de produtos florestais pode aumentar a renda do povo rural e oferecer uma alternativa ao problema de desmatamento nos pases tropicais. No entanto, o grau, no qual tais produtos contribuem na renda rural, tem sido pobremente documentado. Ns apresentamos neste trabalho resultados sobre a dependncia financeira de um grupo indgena em produtos florestais no madereiros. Ns examinamos o efeito de variveis domsticas na renda monetria derivada da extrao e tambm a apreciao de precos dos produtos florestais no madereiros. Estes podutos representam aproximadamente medade da renda anual bruta ganha por casa da tribo Soliga (Biligiri Rangan Hills, Estado de Karnataka-India). Modelos economtricos indicam que embora a renda derivada do extrativismo de produtos no madereiros seja alta em proporo ao tempo gasto na coleta, este no  o trabalho preferido pelos Soligas. A apreciao de preos varia entre os diferentes produtos extrados. Os Soligas obtm salrio mnimo pela extrao destes produtos. Ns discutimos mecanismos possveis para aumentar a renda dos Soligas e o envolvimento dos mesmos em trabalhos de conservao da mata. 
4255071|Cordeauxia edulis, the yeheb (yicib, ye-eb), has attracted much interest as a potential multi-purpose shrub well adapted to (semi)arid conditions. Since there exist only limited information and analyses, mainly of the seeds, we try to answer some questions arising about site conditions, soil requirements, and, by leaf analyses, the state of nutrition. Finally we determined the fodder-value of the foliage, as the bush is grazed too. Our results underline the low requirements of the yeheb for water and soil fertility.
40686781|The process of co-evolution occurs in many kinds of relationships and on various scales. One example of a co-evolutionary relationship is that of a plant and a culture with which it interacts. Such relationships are dynamic and ever changing. Researchers have discussed this concept and its implications for decades, yet no quantifiable unit or standardized scale has been accepted with which to measure this change. The theoretical "quantum co-evolution unit" (QCU) is proposed as the smallest measurable scale of interactions between plants and people. A collection of QCUs for a linked plant and human population would be its "ethnobotanical population." This could be measured at various points in time to quantify the changing relationships between plants and people. These models set up a structure to discuss methodologies for quantifying co-evolutionary relationships such as are seen in the evolution of ethnobotanical populations. The co-evolving relationship between 'awa (kava Piper methysticum) and Hawaiian culture is used as an example to illustrate this idea.
4255181| Utilization of Atlantic white cedar (Chamaecyparis thyoides) is examined throughout the range of the species. The most important production area is North Carolina, with New Jersey and panhandle Florida-southern Alabama as secondary centers. The wood is used where its light weight, resistance to decay, and fragrance are of value-as siding and paneling for houses, planking for small- to medium-sized boats, fencing, decking, and lawn furniture, with smaller quantities used for such specialities as shingles and duck decoys. Harvest and manufacturing strategies are examined. Wholesale value of the manufactured products is calculated at $10 to $11.5 million. Annual production is estimated as 19 million board feet. The present forest inventory of standing trees is believed to be between 170 and 180 million board feet. /// Die Nutzanwendung der Kugelzypresse (Chamaecyparis thyoides) ist Gegenstand von Studien ber den gesamten Bereich dieser Spezie. Das wichtigste Erzeugungsgebiet ist North Carolina, mit New Jersey und der Florida Panhandle-Sd Alabama als zustzliche Zentren. Besondere Verwendung findet das Holz aufgrund seines leichten Gewichtes, seiner Bestndigkeit und seines Aromas als Aussenverkleidung und Tafelung fr Huser, Planken fr kleine bis mittelgrosse Boote, Zune, Bden und Gartenmbel. Kleinere Mengen finden Gebrauch als Dachziegel und Lockvgel. Ausbeutungs- und Verarbeitungsstrategien werden untersucht. Der Grosskaufswert des verarbeiteten Produkts luft sich auf $10 bis $11,5 Millionen. Die geschtzte Jahresproduktion betrgt 44.800 Festmeter (19 millionen Brettfsse). Der derzeitige Waldbestand liegt zwischen 401.000 und 425.000 Festmeter (170 und 180 millionen Brettfsse). 
4252055|The occurrence of famines in various parts of the world, especially in primitive tropical areas, has compelled the inhabitants of those regions to subsist at such times primarily on an enormous variety of wild plants, a few of which are discussed in this article, that otherwise would be relatively little utilized by them.
4251869|Where over-intensive use of the forests may be leading to the loss of a centuries-old plant-utilizing industry.
4253833|Using principal component and cluster analyses of 20 ear characters for 219 Latin American races and subraces of maize, 14 groups of races are delimited. The relationships among these groups are indicated, and some subdivisions of the 14 racial groups are described. Only two of the 14 groups of races have been widely used in breeding; several groups have only been slightly studied and a number of their component races verge upon extinction. There is a very small, but perhaps highly significant, amount of overlap between the groups to which the Mexican and indigenous South American races belong.
4255390| Hard fibers are tissues obtained by decorticating leaves of various monocots, including sisal and abaca. These fibers have traditionally been used in cordage applications (rope, burlap, etc.), but they are also pulped and used in the paper industry for making specialty papers including currency, tea bags, and other products requiring high tensile strength. We examined fiber properties of several genera of Agavaceae from the southwestern United States and northern Mexico to determine their potential for paper making. Leaf samples of species of Agave, Dasylirion, Hesperaloe, Nolina, and Yucca were macerated and fiber cell length, width, and wall thickness were measured. Several species of Hesperaloe and Yucca have fibers that are as long or longer (>3 mm) and narrower (<20 ) than those of sisal. Species of Agave, Dasylirion, and, Nolina have shorter fibers (mostly <1.5 mm). Species of Hesperaloe and Yucca would appear to be most suitable for paper making. /// Las fibras duras son tejidos que se obtienen descortezando las hojas de varias monocotiledoneas, includos el sisal y la abaca. Estas fibras has sido usadas, tradicionalmente, en cordages (soga, arpillera, etc.), pero tambin son hechas pulpa y utilizadas en la industria del papel para papeles especiales incluyendo el papel moneda, bolsitas de te, y otros productos que requieren alto potencil de extensibilidad. Hemos examinado las propiedades de la clula-fibra de varios gneros de Agavaceae del sudoeste de Estados Unidos y norte de Mxico para determinar su potencil para la produccin de papel. Las muestras de hojas de especies de Agave, Dasylirion, Hesperaloe, Nolina, y Yucca, fueron maceradas y se midieron el largo, el ancho y el espesor de la pared de la clula de la fibra. Varias especies de Hesperaloe y Yucca presentan fibras que son tan largas y an mas largas (>3 mm) y mas angostas (<20 ) que las del sisal. Las especies de Agave, Dasylirion, y Nolina tienen fibras mas cortas (en general <1.5 mm). Las especies de Hesperaloe y Yucca pareceran ser las mas apropiadas para la produccin de papel. 
4253820| The ethnobotany of the Paumar Indians was studied because their plant uses are fast being forgotten with the encroachment of western culture. A brief description of some of the common plants used in everyday life and of their food crops is given. The two narcotic snuffs made from Tanaecium nocturnum (Bignoniaceae) and Virola elongata (Myristicaceae) are described in some detail. A list of medicinal and poisonous plants is also given. 
4256202|Wild soybeans collected in Japan were surveyed for RFLPs of chloroplast DNA. Three haplotypes were detected in RFLPs with a cpDNA clone which contains a LSC region adjacent to the left member of IR. Most of the plants tested possessed haplotype III, and a few plants, collected mostly in southern Japan, had haplotype II. Haplotype I, which is the predominant from in modern cultivars, was detected at six sites from four widely separated regions. Our results indicate that haplotype III is predominant in wild soybean of Japan. Some of the plants having haplotype I were phenotypically intermediate between wild and cultivated soybeans, while the others possessed a seed morphology and plant architecture typical of ordinary wild soybean. The plants having haplotype I appear to be either derivatives of hybridization between wild and cultivated soybeans or relics of a direct progenitor of soybean cultivars with the haplotype I chloroplast genome. / [Abstract in Chinese]
4254942|A strategy is suggested for in situ conservation of crop genetic resources whereby conservation efforts are linked to rural development projects in Third World countries. We describe development projects that emphasize preservation of traditional farming systems and succeed in sustaining production by relying on the maintenance of biological and genetic diversity in these systems. Basing agricultural development efforts on indigenous knowledge, technology, and social organization can provide important guidelines for the design of cropping systems that allow low-income farmers to produce subsistence and cash crops without dependence on external inputs and seed supplies. By incorporating landraces and wild relatives of crops into these cropping systems, major achievements in the conservation of crop genetic resources can be obtained.
4254735|A preliminary taxonomic and agronomic investigation was made of close relatives of the faba bean (Vicia faba) to aid future plant breeding. Cluster analysis of 2 yr's morphometric data showed that V. johannis is clearly separable from other members of the V. narbonensis complex. Also V. faba was much more distinct from either V. narbonensis or V. johannis than they are from each other. Petal colours at anthesis provided a rapid method of field identification for V. faba, V. narbonensis, and V. johannis. The 2 varieties of V. johannis can also be distinguished by their petal colours: var. procumbens shows a marked colour change at anthesis and var. johannis does not. The geographical distribution of the plant material studied suggests that V. johannis is found in Turkey and Europe despite being omitted from the major published floras. Both V. johannis and V. narbonensis possess agronomically useful characters of importance to faba bean breeders, including increased frost tolerance and resistance to both Aphis fabae and Botrytis fabae.
4254848|Grindelia camporum is a conspicuously resinous, herbaceous perennial found in the Central Valley area of California. The resin is produced in multicellular glands, which occur on the surfaces of stems, leaves, and involucres. The resin is composed of grindelic acid and several of its derivatives. These labdane diterpenes are similar to the resin acids that constitute rosin, a principal product of the naval stores industry, and it seems likely that resin extracted from Grindelia would have uses similar to those of rosin. If improved varieties of Grindelia camporum can be developed that yield a higher proportion of resin, this species would be suitable for domestication as a new crop for arid lands.
4255608|Seeds identified as Gossypium barbadense, South American cotton, have been recovered from the Real Alto site on the Coast of Ecuador in contexts
4252880|Kif is the Moroccan word for marihuana. It is a general name that covers all preparations that are smoked. These preparations are different from those encountered in North America in that only the blossoms of the mature female plant are used. Another difference is that the blossoms are always mixed with an equal amount of tobacco. Its use is widespread throughout the country among adult males as it has been for centuries.
4254645|There is an urgent need to identify or to produce 'Black Sigatoka' disease-tolerant or -resistant cooking and dessert bananas. Since bananas are perhaps the most conspicuously sterile of all cultivated fruits, breeding of resistant stock is fraught with great difficulties. An overview is provided of the potential value that may be derived from the use of aseptic culture techniques for generating and/or multiplying specific pathogen-tolerant clones. Special emphasis is given to the principles underlying various strategies and to the several levels of sophisticated methods presently available or that still need to be further developed before substantive practical benefits accrue. While the stance adopted in this paper is conservative, so-called tissue culture approaches to banana breeding and improvement may well serve as a model not only for Musa but for other recalcitrant crop plants.
40390586|The significance of the contribution of wild edible mushrooms to rural livelihoods is acknowledged, but remains largely unexplored. This study investigates the collection of wild edible Nepalese fungi, which species are used, and what are the specific characteristics of the collectors and the collection. Data were collected using 282 structured questionnaires, interviews, and forest walks in 17 districts, environmental household accounts from 413 households in two communities, and a review of literature. A total of 228 species of wild fungi are confirmed to be used for food, and collection is most widespread among the high-mountain Tibeto-Nepalese ethnic groups, which collect an average of 18.1 kilograms (kg) fresh mushrooms per year per household, with some households collecting as much as 160kg. We found no relation between wealth status and subsistence collection, although the commercial collectors are predominantly the poor earning up to six months of unskilled labor salary per season. Given the limited local trade and occurrence of globally marketed species, the scope for increasing contributions to rural livelihoods from collection of mushrooms, and risks in relation to this are briefly discussed.
4255479| This paper describes a new, simple, quantitative technique for evaluating the relative usefulness of plants to people. The technique is then compared to the quantitative approaches in ethnobotany that have been developed recently. Our technique is used to calculate the importance of over 600 species of woody plants to non-indigenous mestizo people in Tambopata, Amazonian Peru. Two general classes of hypotheses are formulated and tested statistically, concerning (1) the relative importance of different species, and (2) the importance of different families. The plant families are compared with respect to all uses, and with respect to five broad groups of uses. Palms, Annonaceae, and Lauraceae were found to be the most useful woody plant families. On average, the 20 largest woody plant families are most important to mestizos for subsistence construction materials, followed in descending order by commercial, edible, technological, and medicinal uses. / En ste estudio se describe una nueva tcnica cuantitativa para la evaluacin de la relativa utilidad de plantas a la gente. Esta tcnica se compara con aquellas tcnicas cuantitativas recientemente desarrolladas en etnobotnica. Con sta tcnica nosotros estimamos la importancia que las plantas leosas, ms de 600 especies, tienen para los mestizos de Tambopata de la Amazona del Per. Estadsticamente, se prueban dos hiptesis generales concernientes a (1) la relativa importancia de especies diferentes, y a (2) la importancia de diferentes familias. Las familias de plantas son comparadas entre ellas en relacin a todos los usos, y con respecto a cinco grupos amplios de usos. Se descubri que las familias leosas mas tiles son las palmeras, Annonaceas, y Lauraceas. En trmino promedio, las 20 familias mas grandes de plantas leosas tienen prioridad como materiales de construccin de subsistencia, seguidas en orden descendiente por sus usos comerciales, comestibles, tecnolgicos, y medicinales. 
4256730|This study was carried out in the regions where handcrafts such as carpet and rug weaving are common in Turkey. In the regions where natural dyes are used, 123 plant species belonging to 50 families were identified as sources of natural dyes. In natural dye production, different parts of the plant or the whole aboveground plant is used. Ten different colors are gained from the plants. Sometimes the same color can be obtained from different plants. By mixing different plants, it is possible to produce various colors. We also identified more than 12 natural and more than eight chemical assistant substances (mordant) that are used in the regions to bind dye to fibers, to maintain the strongness and brightness of the colors, and to obtain various colors.
4251946|The genus Populus, because of its considerable economic importance coupled with favorable experimental characteristics, has attracted the interest of many investigators of tree genetics and may truly be called the "guinea pig" of forest-tree breeding.
4255481| To determine the relative importance of the genotype, the environment, and their interaction on the expression of morphological characters in maize races, 50 Mexican races and 24 races from Central America, South America, and the U.S. were grown in several locations and seasons in Mxico and 47 characters were measured directly. Estimates of the ratio of variance components,
4255039|Tuber proteins of oca (Oxalis tuberosa) were separated for clone (cultivar) differentiation by gel electrophoresis in polyacrylamide. The patterns of native proteins and especially of esterases in a porosity gradient with and without urea were suitable for differentiation, whereas SDS-electrophoresis of protomers or focusing of native proteins yielded more or less the same patterns for 23 different accessions. The main proteins are quite acidic (isoelectric points pH 4.7-4.9) and have a relative molecular weight of 17-18 KD (Kilo-Dalton). Amino acid analysis of the protein precipitate by propan-2-ol from tuber sap revealed proteins rich in aspartic and glutamic acid (one third of all amino acids) with a considerable share of essential ones.
4256219| The Sumu (Ulwa) are one of three Amerindian groups of eastern Nicaragua. Their uses of 225 species of plants in 174 genera and 72 families were documented in two years of fieldwork. Included are 187 medicinals, 69 food plants, and 84 for other uses. Ulwa medicinals treat more than 25 human ailments, and most (80%) are native to eastern Nicaragua. Over 70% of the medicinals have a recognized bioactive principle, most are herbs (48%) or trees (33%). Leaves are the most frequently utilized plant part. Most medicinals are prepared as decoctions and are administered orally. Almost half of Ulwa food plants are domesticates, but only six are native to the New World tropics. Comparison of plant use between the Ulwa and southern Miskitu indicated that most of the species used for food (98%), medicinals (90%), and medicinal applications (80%) are the same. The Miskitu use more species, have a wider range of medicinal applications, and more unique plant uses than the Ulwa, presumably due to their larger territory. Differences in ethnobotanical usage between these groups seem to be more a reflection of scale than of remnants of cultural differences. /// Los Sumu (Ulwa) constituyen uno de los tres grupos Amerindios del oriente Nicaragense. Durante dos aos de estudios se documentaron los usos por ste grupo de 225 especies vegetales en 174 gneros y 72 familias. Incluyendo 187 especies medicinales, 69 especies alimenticias y 84 especies para usos auxiliares. Las plantas medicinales de los Ulwa tratan ms de 25 enfermedades y la mayora (80%) son especies nativas del oriente Nicaragense. Ms del 70% de las especies medicinales poseen algn principio bioactivo; la mayora son hierbas (48%) o rboles (33%). Las hojas son las partes ms frecuentemente utilizadas en remedios y son preparados en forma de decoccines y administradas oralmente. Las plantas comestibles en su mayora son domesticadas, solamente seis son nativas del neotrpico. Comparaciones de las plantas usadas por los Ulwa y Miskitu demuestran que la mayora de las especies usadas como alimentos (98%), medicinas (90%) y aplicaciones medicinales (80%) son iguales. Los Miskitu usan un mayor nmero de especies, con un mayor rango de aplicaciones medicinales y mas usos singulares de plantas que los Ulwa, presumiblemente debido a su territorio mas extenso. Diferencias etnobotnicas parecen ser mas bien consecuencia de escala y no vestigios de diferencias culturales. 
4256677| The gathering of Typha domingensis pollen and the modes of preparation and consumption edible products with it by seven ethnic groups of the Gran Chaco (Chulup, Lengua, Mak, Mataco, Pilag, Toba and Toba-Pilag) in Argentina and Paraguay are described in this paper, together with those product's local names and chemical compositions. Pollen provides an excellent food for those groups, because of both its nutritional value and its availability in periods when there is a scarcity of fruits and vegetables. The ethnic groups of the Gran Chaco do not eat any kind of pollen other than that of T. domingensis. 
4254461|This paper deals with the ethnobotany of the Onge tribe. Brief accounts of the geography of the island, ethnology, and history of ethnobotanical studies in addition to the methodology of the present work are given. Plants used in everyday life, such as for bows and arrows, dugouts and canoes, fibers, food, medicines, and shelter, are described and discussed. The 40 species dealt with in the paper have 52 uses. The present study indicates that the Onge tribe shows certain similarities with other southeastern Asian Negrito races.
4254477|Rooibos tea (Aspalathus linearis, formerly A. contaminatus), is a leguminous shrub with needlelike leaves native to mountain slopes of western Cape Province, South Africa. Its beverage use by the Hottentots was first reported by the botanist Carl Thunberg in 1772. About 1900, it began to be marketed and then domesticated on a small scale. Seed selection and improved cultivation and processing started in the 1920s. Important advances were made in 1930. Demand for the product jumped during World War II because of the shortage of Oriental tea, then declined. The industry was stabilized in 1954 and continued to expand, with exports to Australia, New Zealand, Europe, the United Kingdom, Canada and, to a very limited extent, the United States. A fungus disease, then drought, followed by floods temporarily reduced the supply in 1980. The tea is gaining recognition for its freedom from caffeine, low tannin and high ascorbic acid content. It contains the antispasmodic principle, quercetin, and is said to have enough fluoride to inhibit caries. Consumer tests indicate that rooibos tea may be an acceptable alternative to tea, coffee, cocoa and high-caffeine soft drinks.
4251873|Highly specialized factories affiliated with the California Fruit Growers Exchange, an orange-, lemon- and grapefruit-marketing cooperative of 14,500 California and Arizona growers, produce tremendous quantities of citrus products which find uses not only in foods but in fields as diverse as medicine and the oil and rubber industries.
4254849|Aboriginal cultivators selected a phylogenetically novel fruit shape during the domestication of Proboscidea parviflora ssp. parviflora var. Hohokamiana. The extremely long rostrum of the domesticated var. Hohokamiana is unique for the Martyniaceae. Rostrum length and width are significantly correlated in the wild var. parviflora, but in var. Hohokamiana aboriginal cultivators apparently selected for a weaker correlation between these variables. In both varieties there is an allometric relationship between rostrum and "capsule" lengths, with the former increasing proportionately faster than the latter. The above allometric relationship and the decrease in correlation between rostrum length and width are advantageous to aboriginal cultivators because the proportionately longer and thinner rostra are better for basketmaking. Comparisons of the data presented herein with data from other plants suggest that similar growth factors have been responsible for changes in fruit shape resulting from domestication.
4253892|Thujone,
4253539|The traditional pharmacopoeia of the Seri Indians of Sonora, Mexico, involves approximately 95 species of plants in 80 genera, 15 animal species, and one kind of clay. In contrast only 75 species of plants were utilized for food. Medicinal teas are prepared from 63 plant species. Plants with aromatic foliage are especially esteemed. The predilection for watery preparations seems to be related to the commonplace water-deficit in a very hot and arid environment. Although a shaman was frequently involved in curing sickness, he generally did not administer medicines. For the most part, traditional Seri medicine has been a highly individual affair. The few mixtures are relatively simple preparations. The absence of complicated formulae encourages self-administered medicines and the information can readily diffuse through the culture. Because it is an individual-oriented and non-professionally administered pharmacopoeia, each individual may not know every remedy. To the Seri, origin and use of their various remedies appear to be highly pragmatic, often based on trial and error, i.e., it is effective.
4251850|The oils of dill, lemon-grass, tansy, wormseed and wormwood are distilled from cultivated plants; those of cedarleaf, cedarwood, erigeron, pennyroyal, sassafras, sweet birch, wintergreen and witch-hazel from wild plants; and together they all constitute a minor industry for which production figures are not readily available.
4256199| The cultivated sunflower (Helianthus annuus) is one of the four most important annual crops in the world grown for its edible oil. Species of the genus Helianthus served as the ancestral stock for the present cultivated sunflower. The wild relatives are a valuable genetic reservoir for improving the crop species. This study examined oil concentration and fatty acid composition in oil of two annual Helianthus species (31 populations) and four perennial species (32 populations) from the prairie provinces of Canada. The highest average oil concentration was observed in annual H. petiolaris with 31.3%. Among the perennials, H. maximiliani Schrad. had the highest average oil concentration with 31.1%. Helianthus tuberosus L. had the highest average palmitic (16:0) acid concentration with 8.0%, while the lowest value was observed in H. petiolaris with 4.0%. The highest average stearic (18:0) acid concentration was found in H. annuus with 2.9%, while H. petiolaris had the lowest with 2.3%. The highest average oleic acid (18:1) was observed in H. petiolaris (18.4%), and the highest linoleic (18:2) was observed in H. maximiliani (77.4%). The variability within the wild species appears to be sufficient for altering oil and fatty acid characteristics in cultivated sunflower. /// El girasol cultivado (Helianthus annuus) es uno de las cuatro ms importantes cosechas anuales en el mundo crecido para su aceite comestible. Especies del Helianthus sirvi como el surtido de los antepasados para girasol cultivado. Los parientes salvajes son un precioso rcursos genetic para mejorar la especies de cosecha. Este estudio examino la concentracin de aceite y la composicin del cido graso fueron determinados de dos especies de Helianthus anuales (31 poblaciones) y quatro especies perennes (32 poblaciones) procedentes de provincias de llanura de Canad. El promedio mayor de concentracin de aceite se observ en la anual H. petiolaris con 31.3%. Entre las especies perennes, la H. maximiliani tuvo el promedio mayor de concentracin de aceite con 31.1%. Helianthus tuberosus tuvo el promedio mayor de concentracin de cidos grasos, palmtico (16:0) con 8.0%, mientras los valores ms bajos fueron observados en la H. petiolaris con 4.0%. El promedio mayor de concentracin de esterico (18:0) cidos fueron observados in anuales la H. annuus con 2.9%, mientros H. petiolaris las valores ms bajos con 2.3%. El promedio mayor cido olico (18:1) se observ en la H. petiolaris (18.4%) y el mayor cido linolico (18:2) se observ en la H. maximiliani (77.4%). La variabilidad con en las especies silvestres parece haber suficiente para seleccin y alteracin de las caractersticas de aceite y cido graso del girasol cultivado. 
4251972|Among the 500 species known in Australia, about 60 have attained economic importance, being used primarily for building purposes, secondarily as sources of pulp, tannin and oils.
4256881|An ethnobotanical survey was made of the villages of the Ilica District, Erzurum Province, Turkey. The authors interviewed 130 people in 60 villages. The information so obtained was classified according to the use of plants for food, fuel, dye, and construction materials, as well as for miscellaneous uses. All in all, this study revealed 60 plant taxa that were useful to the villagers of this district.
4254771|About 500 plant species from various regions of the United States have been screened previously at the USDA Northern Regional Research Center for their multipurpose, energy-producing potential. Most collections have been from the rich flora of central Illinois. For this report, 92 additional species were collected from southern Illinois and evaluated by criteria previously established at this Center. Plant samples were analyzed for "oil," "polyphenol," "hydrocarbon," and protein. Oil fractions of selected species were analyzed for classes of lipid constituents and were saponified to determine yields of unsaponifiable matter and fatty acids. Hydrocarbon fractions of selected species were analyzed for rubber, gutta, and waxes. Average molecular weight and molecular weight distribution of rubber and gutta were determined. Of the 92 species, complete analytical data are presented for 16 selected species. Substantial quantities of oil were obtained from Philadelphus coronarius (5.0%; dry, ash-free sample basis), Cacalia muhlenbergii (4.1%), Lindera benzoin (4.1%), and Koelreuteria paniculata (4.0%). High yields of polyphenol were obtained from Acer ginnala (33.1%), Cornus obliqua (20.8%), and Salix caprea (20.0%). Maximum yields of hydrocarbon and protein were from Elymus virginicus (0.6%) and Lindera benzoin (11.1%), respectively. Data are discussed with respect to species previously analyzed at this Center.
4287836| Millions of these palm trees in the Gran Chaco of central South America, occupying parts of Argentina, Bolivia and Paraguay, offer an unexploited commercial source of a hard vegetable wax, potentially as great as that of carnaba palm in northeastern Brazil. 
4254766|Two interfertile species of Cucurbita, the wild C. texana and the domesticated C. pepo (var. medullosa), were hybridized to elucidate the genetic basis of inter-specific differences in isozyme phenotypes. Presented here are descriptions of phenotypes associated with 6 enzyme systems (GOT, IDH, MDH, PER, PGI, PGM). Genetic interpretation for 6 gene loci and 12 alleles is based on F
4287956|Cultivation of blueberries in the United States is of rather recent origin. As production from commercial plantings increases, more attention must be given to quality factors. This study is devoted to such factors as correlation between berry size and seed, acid, and sugar content.
4287837|Oaks are the sources, not only of the most valuable timber among broad-leaved trees of the northern hemisphere, but also of cork, tannin, a dye, and food for man and beast. Their prolonged preflowering periods and other factors have discouraged genetic investigation of them, but what little is known in that direction is here summarized.
4255047|Dissemination pathways of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) cultivars from their areas of domestication to other parts of the Americas were determined using phaseolin type, as determined by 1-dimensional SDS/PAGE. Common bean cultivars of lowland South America exhibited approximately equal numbers of 'S' and 'T' phaseolin types. 'S' cultivars of that region may have been introduced along a route starting in Middle America and leading into Colombia, Venezuela, and eventually Brazil. 'T' phaseolin cultivars in lowland South America may have been introduced directly from the Andes or indirectly by European immigrants. In the southwestern U.S.A., most of the cultivars showed an 'S' phaseolin, confirming the Middle American origin of these cultivars, as suggested previously by the archaeological record. In northeastern U.S.A. and Canada, the 'T' and 'C' phaseolin types were more frequent than the 'S' phaseolin cultivars. While most of the former were possibly introduced into that region by European immigrants, most of the latter may have been introduced by the pre-Columbian Indian populations. Seed size analysis revealed that 'T' or 'C' phaseolin cultivars had significantly larger seeds than 'S' phaseolin cultivars, as had been observed previously in Middle America and the Andes. The phaseolin types of commercial seed types and of early northeastern U.S. cultivars are discussed.
4255990|This study is based on a remarkable seventeenth-century Malay court chronicle, in which the kingdom's rulers issue injunctions on their death-beds against cultivating pepper (Piper nigrum Piperaceae) for the colonial trade. The rulers say that pepper cultivation will lead to expensive food stuffs, malice, government disorder, pretensions on the part of the subject peoples, and inevitably the destruction of the kingdom. The "fatal attraction" of pepper cultivation is likened, in an indigenous metaphor, to having a flourishing banana tree in front of one's gate. Analysis of historic as well as contemporary evidence from Borneo suggests that this is a remarkably astute analysis of the relations of production in pepper cultivation, especially in the transition from small-scale household cultivation to larger-scale production with state involvement. This analysis demonstrates the potential value of historic, indigenous texts for the study of economic plants, and it also shows the value of historical depth for understanding contemporary issues. /// Studi ini merupakan suatu kajian tentang suatu hikayat Melayu abad ke-17 yang menakjubkan, yang memperlihatkan bagaimana para penguasa kerajaan mengeluarkan larangan, menjelang "ajal" mereka, tentang penanaman lada (Piper nigrum, Piperaceae) untuk kepentingan perdagangan kolonial. Para penguasa mengatakan bahwa penanaman lada akan mengarah pada suatu keadaan mahalnya bahan makanan, timbulnya kejahatan, kekacauan tatanan pemerintahan, pernyataan-pernyataan yang meragukan yang muncul di kalangan masyarakat penanam, dan kehancuran kerajaan yang tak terhindarkan. Penanaman lada ini, dalam pandangan lokal, adalah seperti kita memiliki sebatang pohon pisang yang sedang berbuah di depan pintu gerbang rumah kita. Analisis sejarah dan bukti-bukti terbaru dari Kalimantan menunjukkan bahwa pandangan ini adalah suatu analisis yang cermat tentang berbagai relasi produksi dalam penanaman lada, terutama dalam transisi dari usaha rakyat yang berskala kecil ke usaha berskala besar yang melibatkan negara. Analisis ini menunjukkan nilai potensial sejarah dan kisah-kisah lokal bagi studi tentang tumbuh-tumbuhan ekonomis, dan juga memperlihatkan nilai sejarah bagi pemahaman pokok-pokok persoalan masa kini.
4255831| Wild Phaseolus vulgaris is distributed between northern Mexico and northern Argentina. Analysis of phaseolin and molecular markers (isozymes, Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms or RFLPs) indicate that this gene pool consists of two major groups, Mesoamerican and Andean, and a third intermediate group found in northwestern South America. Previous to this study, only four accessions of wild P. vulgaris beans from Bolivia had been collected and their genetic relationship with other wild beans from Latin America was not known. Due to the problem of intense erosion in some areas of Bolivia, it was our objective to survey and document Phaseolus spp. in this area before their extinction. We conducted a collection expedition in May 1994 in the departments of Cochabamba, Chuquisaca and Tarija. This resulted in collections of four populations of P. augusti, two of cultivated P. lunatus and two mixtures of cultivated P. vulgaris. The first mixture was made of "k'opurus" or beans consumed after toasting, and represented an addition of 17 accessions to the Bolivian collection. The second mixture was made of "porotos" and resulted in the addition of 10 new accessions. Seven germplasm collections of wild P. vulgaris were found, which allowed us to increase the number of known populations of wild common bean for Bolivia. Another accession was found as a wild-weed-crop complex. Seven of these wild P. vulgaris accessions along with another accession from Bolivia collected previously, and a number of P. vulgaris accessions from Mexico (17), Guatemala (3), Colombia (10), Ecuador (6), Peru (17) and Argentina (16) were analyzed with RAPDs. The use of 14 random primers and one SCAR (Sequence Characterized Amplified Region) resulted in 90 bands, of which 83 were polymorphic. This data was used to construct a dendrogram which shows clear separation into three clusters, corresponding to each of the gene pools and an intermediate group. The Bolivian wild P. vulgaris beans grouped with the accessions of southern Peru and Argentina into the Andean gene pool. RAPD analysis of genetic diversity correlated well with genetic diversity obtained with other markers. Moreover, the ease of analysis allowed us to obtain a large number of bands which was conducive to greater sensitivity and identification of geographic subgroups and accessions of hybrid origin. /// Phaseolus vulgaris silvestre se encuentra distribudo entre el norte de Mxico y el norte de Argentina. Mediante anlisis de faseolina y marcadores moleculares (isoenzimas, RFLPs o polimorfismo de largo de fragmentos de restriccin). ha sido determinado que este acervo gentico consiste de dos grupos principales, Mesoamericano y Andino, y un tercer grupo intermedio hallado en el noroeste de Sudamrica. Previo a este estudio, slo habian sido colectadas cuatro accesiones de P. vulgaris silvestre en Bolivia, y se desconoca su relacin gentica con otros frejoles silvestres de Latinoamrica. Debido al problema de erosin intensa en ciertas zonas de Bolivia, nuestro objetivo fue estudiar y documentar Phaseolus spp. en esta rea antes de su extincin. Realizamos una expedicin de coleccin en Mayo de 1994 en los departamentos de Cochabamba, Chuquisaca y Tarija. Como resultado de sta, coleccionamos cuatro poblaciones de P. augusti dos poblaciones de P. lunatus cultivado y dos mezclas de P. vulgaris cultivado. La primera mezcla consisti de "k'opurus," o frejoles que son consumidos despus de tostar, y representaron la adicin de 17 accesiones para la coleccin boliviana. La segunda fue una mezcla de "porotos" que resultaron en la adicin de 10 nuevas accesiones. Se encontraron siete colecciones de germoplasma de P. vulgaris silvestre, lo cual nos permiti triplicar el nmero de poblaciones de frejol comn silvestre conocidas en Bolivia. Otra entrada fue encontrada como parte de un complejo de silvestre-maleza-cultivo. Siete de estas entradas de P. vulgaris silvestre as como otra entrada de Bolivia colectada previamente, y varias entradas de P. vulgaris silvestre de Mxico (17), Guatemala (3), Colombia (10), Ecuador (6), Per (17) y Argentina (16) fueron analizadas con el uso de RAPDs (polimorfismo de DNA por amplificacin al azar). El uso de 14 cebadores y un SCAR (regin amplificada de secuencia caracterizada) dieron como resultado 90 bandas, de las cuales 83 fueron polimrficas. Estos datos fueron utilizados para la construccin de un dendrograma, que muestra clara separacin en tres grupos, que corresponden a cada uno de los acervos genticos y un grupo intermedio. Los frejoles silvestres de Bolivia agruparon con las entradas del sur del Per y Argentina, dentro del grupo Andino. El anlisis de diversidad gentica con RAPDs tuvo buena correlacin con la diversidad gentica obtenida con otros marcadores. Adems, la facilidad del anlisis permiti obtener un gran nmero de bandas resultando en mayor sensitividad e identificacin de subgrupos geogrficos y entradas de origen hbrido. 
4287938|In China and Japan bamboo shoots have long served as victuals, but no such use has yet developed in the New World, except for imports of the canned article. Edibility tests on 27 kinds growing in Puerto Rico are here reported, but large plantations and propaganda to create a demand for the shoots would be necessary to establish them as items of diet in America.
4254931|Eight oak galls caused by cynipid wasps and preserved by the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius at Herculaneum, Italy, provide tangible clues to the significance of galls in early human culture. The external and internal appearances of the galls are described. Remnants of insects were found in two of the specimens. It is suggested that all but one of the galls were caused by the cynipid Adleria kollari. Probable uses of the galls are discussed; it is concluded that the galls were likely sold for use in medicines.
4255308| The distinction between "bitter" and "sweet" (toxic and non-toxic) varieties of the cyanide-containing food crop manioc (Manihot esculenta, Euphorbiaceae) has a long tradition in the tropical forest areas of South and Central America where it was first cultivated. Yet this distinction has no taxonomic basis. The levels of cyanogenic glucosides found in manioc varieties not only vary widely, but do not correspond with any other known morphological or ecological feature. Nonetheless, these two "varieties" are commonly reported to have distinct geographical and cultural distributions and each is associated with a particular traditional food complex. This paper reviews the literature regarding the nature, distribution, and traditional uses of manioc varieties and concludes that (1) the geographical and cultural distribution of bitter and sweet varieties of manioc may not be as distinct as has been thought; (2) traditional categories of bitter and sweet manioc may stem more from culturally derived belief systems than from actual known levels of toxicity; and (3) the choice of complex and labor intensive processing methods usually associated with bitter manioc may not be required for detoxification but rather for the derived food products, particularly manioc flour. /// La diferenciacin entre las variedades de la yuca (Manihot esculenta, Euphorbiaceae) "amarga" y "dulce" (txico o no txico) han sido una tradicin de muchos siglos para este articulo de cultivo principal (que contiene cianuro) de los habitantes autctonos de las selvas tropicales de Amrica del Sur y Central. Hasta ahora, la diferenciacin no ha sido en bases a las caractersticas taxonomicas. Los niveles de glucsidos de cianuro encontrados en las variedades de la yuca no solamente varan mucho pero ni corresponden a las caractersticas morfolgicas o ecolgicas. Sin embargo, estas dos "variedades" han sido renombradas por tener distribucines geogrficas y culturales differentes segn la ubicacin, y cada una corresponde a un sistema de agricultura tradicional de las poblaciones Indigenas. Este trabajo revisa la literatura sobre las caractersticas, distribucin y usos tradicionales de las dos variedades de yuca y concluye que (1) la distribucin geogrfica y cultural de las variedades de yuca amarga y dulce no son tan claros como la literatura ha presentado; (2) las categoras tradicional de la yuca amarga y dulce puede ser un producto ms derivado de los sistemas de creencia culturalmente definidos que del grado real de toxicidad; y (3) la seleccin de los mtodos de procesamiento complejos y entensivos normalmente asociados con la yuca amarga parece que no es requerido para la destoxificacin sino para el tipo de productos derivados de esta, particularmenta la harina de yuca. 
4256055| This study examines the productivity, sustainability, and management of tagua nuts from the palm Phytelephas aequatorialis under three management regimes in northwestern Ecuador. Tagua nuts are used internationally as an ivory substitute and the palm fronds are used locally as roof thatch. Plots were established in a control site and in three local management regimes: pure tagua groves; stands with tagua and cacao in an agroforestry system; and tagua groves where the undergrowth is cleared and old fronds removed. Data were collected for one year and local extractors were interviewed about their tagua management. Palm demography indicates heavy management with few subadult individuals and many more adult females than males. Productivity analyses do not demonstrate the influence of any one environmental variable on leaf or infructescence productivity. The pure tagua grove is the management regime most conducive to tagua sustainability. The sustainability results are underscored by the extractive methodology, where local extractors maximize tagua collected while minimizing collection time. These results are incorporated into management recommendations to foster tagua extraction while ensuring its sustainability and future use. /// Nueces de tagua estn usados internacionalmente como un sustituto para marfil y las frondas de la palms se usa localmente para techos. Se estableci cuadrantes en un sitio de testigo y en trs regimenes de manejo local: arboledas de tagua pura; arboledas con tagua y cacao en un sistema agroforestal; arboledas de tagua donde se limpia el suelo y remueve las malezas y las frondas viejas. Se recolectaron datos por un ao y se entrevist extractores locales sobre su manejo de tagua. La demografia de las palmas indic que el manejo es intenso con pocos individuos de subadultos y mucho ms hembras adultas que varones. La analsis de la productividad no demostr la influencia de un solo variable en la productividad de hojas o infructescencias. La arboleda de tagua pura es el regimen de manejo ms conducible a sustentabilidad de tagua. Los resultados de sustentabilidad estn subrayados por la metodologa de extraccin, en que extractores locales maximizan la recoleccinn de tagua mientras minimizan el tiempo de recoleccin. Estos resultados estn incorporados en unas recomendaciones a fomentar la extraccin de tagua mientras asegura su sustentabilidad y uso futuro. 
4256910|Cacti of the genus Opuntia are an economically important crop. Understanding the mechanisms they possess to protect against UV radiation is important for assessing their possible response to climatic change. Measurements of the concentrations of UV-screening compounds and epidermal transmittance for two species of platyopuntia, Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck. and O. phaeacantha Engelm. during 1998 and 1999 were used to investigate the UV-protection afforded by the cactus epidermis. A UV-radiative transfer model was used to investigate the interception of UV radiation on differently oriented surfaces. We show that vertical morphology itself confers significant protection against UV radiation compared to a horizontal surface. Concentrations of UV-screening flavonoids were found to vary depending on the UV exposure of different surfaces. West-facing surfaces had lower concentrations than east-facing surfaces, although theoretically they should be identical. This might be explained by the higher mean temperatures on west-facing surfaces. Although UV-absorbing soluble flavonoids in the epidermis block both UV-B and UV-A, the structure of the epidermis alone may be sufficient to remove up to 94% of the UV-B portion of the spectrum. These data yield insights into possible mechanisms of recent declines in cacti populations.
4254161|A study was made using the data obtained during a 1973 expedition to collect wheat in Sicily in order to determine possible sampling strategies for collecting genetic resource material. Based on these analyses tables have been developed for selecting optimum sample sizes depending on relative cost and variance component considerations. It is almost impossible to make a general recommendation for optimum sampling strategy. Variation may be (and probably is) different in diverse areas, thus what is true in Sicily may not be true for Ethiopia, etc. Also sampling strategy should be different for characters which are inherited quantitatively from those which are controlled by one or two genes. Visual selection will reduce quantitative genetic variation and thus will defeat the primary purpose of collecting genetic resource material, which is to preserve as much genetic variation as possible. On the other hand, all collectors intuitively collect forms which seem new or unusual to them. Certainly when collecting for specific characters, such as disease resistance, dwarf growth type, stem strength, etc., collectors will not resort to random sampling. Many of the traits are rare and only large samples will ensure that genes responsible for these traits will be represented in the collection.
4254902|Previously, the Northern Regional Research Center (NRRC) has studied chemical and botanical features of about 800 plant species in a program to identify potential renewable sources of industrial raw materials. In this program, another 64 species from northwestern and southwestern Ohio were studied for the present report. Aboveground samples were quantitatively analyzed for moisture, ash, crude protein, "oil," "polyphenol," and "hydrocarbon." Plant oils were examined for classes of constituents. Oils were saponified and analyzed for yields of organic acids and unsaponifiable matter. Hydrocarbons were examined for the presence of rubber, gutta, and waxes. Rubber and gutta were analyzed for weight-average molecular weight and molecular weight distribution. Data are presented for 8 species of the 64 that gave the higher chemical yields. Rhus typhina gave outstanding yields of oil (6.5%) and polyphenol (30.8%) (moisture- plus ash-free basis). Liatris aspera yielded substantial amounts of oil (4.7%) and polyphenol (22.7%), whereas Cornus racemosa yielded a substantial amount of oil (4.4%) but a more typical yield of polyphenol (11.0%). Nuphar advena and Epilobium angustifolium had considerable amounts of polyphenol (16.2, 16.3%) but little oil. Nuphar advena contained the most crude protein (24.8%). Noteworthy amounts of hydrocarbon were extracted from Calamagrostis canadensis (1.1%), Aster umbellatus (0.8%), and Solidago riddellii (0.7%). Polyisoprenes in the hydrocarbon fractions of the latter 3 species were identified as gutta for C. canadensis and rubber for A. umbellatus and S. riddellii. Botanical features of the 8 species are briefly discussed.
4255111| South American Chenopodium assignable to sect. Chenopodium subsect. Cellulata (Chenopodiaceae) have been classified on the basis of fruit and leaf blade morphology. Samples representing 99 free-living and domesticated populations were included in a comparative study based on electrophoretic and morphometric data. The resulting patterns of variation indicate that past reliance on the fruit for diagnostic characters has obscured biological relationships. Domesticated and free-living populations of the high Andes, distributed from northwestern Argentina to Colombia, are closely allied and clearly separate from domesticated populations of coastal Chile and free-living populations of Argentina. Circumscription of the Argentine C. hircinum to include Andean populations is rejected. Specific differentiation among Andean populations, polyphyletic origins for C. quinoa, and the presence of different ploidy levels are not indicated. Free-living Andean types sympatric with C. quinoa are provisionally placed within that species as subsp. milleanum. While the coastal quingua domesticate is clearly distinct from the Andean weed/crop complex, it is provisionally placed within subsp. quinoa to conserve established nomenclature. The overall pattern of morphogenetic variation among South American populations suggests a co-evolutionary relationship between domesticated and free-living populations of the high Andes, with a center of diversity at the southern extreme of the Andean range. Populations of C. hircinum represent a logical link to the progenitor of the quinua complex, although firm phyletic and systematic alignments will require more information concerning populations of south-central Chile, and further definition of relative affinities among North and South American elements of subsection Cellulata. /// Las especies de Chenopodium sudamericanas asignadas a la seccin Chenopodium subseccin Cellulata se han clasificado en base a la morfolga del fruto y de la hoja. Se hizo un estudio comparativo que incluy 99 poblaciones de indomesticadas y domesticadas utilizando datos morfomtricos y electroforticos. Los patrones de variacin resultantes indican que el uso de las caractersticas del fruto como diagnstico ha oscurecido las relaciones biolgicas existentes. Las poblaciones provenientes de los altos Andes entre el noroeste Argentino y Colombia son muy relacionados y claramente separados de las poblaciones domesticadas de Chile y las indomesticadas de Argentina. Se descarta la inclusin de las poblaciones andinas dentro de la especie argentina C. hircinum. No se encuentra la evidencia para diferenciacin especfica dentro de las poblaciones andinas; para el origen polifiltico de C. quinoa, y para la presencia de diferentes niveles de ploidia. Los tipos andinos indomesticados simpatricos con C. quinoa se ubican provisionalmente en la subespecie milleanum. Aunque la quingua costea domesticada es claramente diferente del complejo andino maleza/cultivo se ubica provisionalmente en la subespecie quinoa para conservar la nomenclatura establecida. El patrn general de distribucin morfogentica entre las poblaciones sudamericanas sugiere una relacin coevolutiva entre poblaciones domesticadas y las indomesticadas de los Andes altos con un centro de diversidad en el extremo sur de la distribucin en los Andes. Las poblaciones de C. hircinum representan una unin lgica al progenitos del complejo quinua aunque se necesitan mayor informacin sobre las poblaciones del centro-sur de Chile para tener evidencia filogentica y sistemtica ms firme. Tambin es necesaria una definicin de las afinidades relativas entre los elementos de Norte y Suramrica en la subseccin Cellulata. 
4257198|Ephedra sinica Stapf (commonly, Chinese ephedra) grows mainly in Mongolia, Inner Mongolia, and other regions of northern China. The stems of Chinese ephedra have been called the world's oldest medicine; other uses remain to be reported. Among the Mongolian people, in addition to medical applications, the fleshy bracts of the seed cones (or "fruit") are traditionally used as food, fresh or dried, in several ways; for example, the fruit is used as a refined sugar, a cheese condiment, and a tea substitute. In this paper, we analyze the fruit's nutritional components: moisture, crude protein, crude fat, crude fiber, carbohydrate, ash, pectin, vitamins, fatty acids, mineral elements, and amino acids. Ethnobotanical and nutritional component information may indicate that the plant has potential for development as a special food plant.
4254165|Of the five essential oils screened against Helminthosporium oryzae, the oils of Cymbopogon martinii (ginger grass oil), Cymbopogon oliveri, Cymbopogon sp. (rosa sofia oil) and Trachyspermum ammi (dethymolysed oil) exhibited strong fungitoxicity and showed wide range of activity. The oils were found more active than some of the prevalent synthetic fungicides and thus might be exploited as natural fungicides if successful in field trials. Besides, these oils were found toxic to various human pathogens.
4252052|These shrubs have prospects for replacing, or at least greatly supplementing, Atropa and Hyoscyamus as sources of hyoscine and hyoscyamine. The former drug has been much used in childbirth and psychiatry, the latter as the source of atropine for dilating pupils.
4254958|Bean germplasm collections in northern Malawi revealed the existence of diverse landraces, which have probably been maintained by the local farmers as heterogeneous mixtures since the precolonial introduction of Phaseolus vulgaris into eastern Africa. The various seed types comprising these mixtures are known by an array of local names, reflecting farmer perceptions of seed color and pattern, eating quality, plant structure, origin, and other characteristics. A principal components analysis of morphological, phenological, and agronomic metrical traits for 375 lines randomly selected from 15 landraces revealed a clinal pattern, with the northern and southern areas forming the extremes. Genetic distances, based on the first six PCs, indicated greater between-area variability than within-area variability. Bean landrace diversity in Malawi is likely the result of a complex interplay among forces that generate variability such as outcrossing and human and environmental selection.
4287846|Tree species vary in properties because of the chemical nature of their respective extractive components. So it is that some species yield sufficient quantities of extractives to warrant their recovery for commercial uses. A number of such products, the most diversified of the forest products industries, is discussed here.
4252440|A brief account is given of a minor fruit-growing industry in Kenya. It is an interesting enterprise, because it exemplifies some problems which are apparent in fruit-growing, especially in the tropics, including pest and disease control and commercial outlets. Marketing difficulty is due often to the small quantities involved, which make sales firms reluctant to handle the product not only from the point of view of the initial quantity but also the possibility of repeat orders being unavailable (11).
4254546|Fats and oils for food uses are now plentiful on a worldwide basis. Tallow, lard and fish oils, as well as vegetable oils, such as those derived from soybean, sunflower, palm, rapeseed, peanut and cottonseed, are often overproduced. Although many of these products are also used for industrial chemicals, they often are not of the most favorable composition for nonfood applications. A search for new oilseed crops with more advantageous oil composition has led to the development of excellent candidates that are now close to commercial acceptance. Among them are Crambe, Limnanthes, Vernonia, Sapium and Simmondsia. Other crops are at a much lower stage of development but also have excellent potential. They include Cuphea, Foeniculum, Stokesia, Lesquerella and Lunaria. In this age of searching for renewable resources to replace petrochemicals and imported strategic materials, a well-organized research and development program on new oilseed crops could soon result in American self-sufficiency for industrial oils and fatty acids.
4255232| Isozyme markers were used to survey the genetic variability of non-bitter potatoes in 10 subsistence fields of Andean farmers at 3600-3850 m above sea level. Sixty-seven percent of the varieties were tetraploids corresponding to the species Solanum tuberosum ssp. andigena, 14% were triploids, probably corresponding to the species S.  chaucha, and 13% were diploids corresponding to the species S. stenotomum, S. phureja, and S. goniocalyx. The isozyme information served to determine the consistency of the folk naming system. We found a high degree of correspondence between farmer identification and electrophoretic phenotypes. The consistency of the folk system in electrophoretic terms depended on the farmer who was interviewed. The most common incongruity consisted of calling different electrophoretic phenotypes by the same variety name, leading to a slight underestimation of genetic variability present in the fields. The amount of variability observed in the sample of the Andean potato population was superior to that present in North American and European varieties. This was measured in terms of number of alleles, number of electrophoretic phenotypes and percent of heterozygosity. This finding supports the impression that a substantial amount of yet unexploited variability remains in Andean potato populations. /// En este trabajo se da a conocer los resultados de un estudio gentico sobre variedades de papa dulce en los Andes, realizada por medio de marcadores isoenzimticos en parcelas de subsistencia localizados entre 3600 y 3850 metros sobre el nivel del mar. Se encontr que 67% de las variedades muestreadas eran tetraploides de la especie S. tuberosum ssp. andigena, 14% triploides probablemente de la especie S.  chaucha, y 13% diploides de las especies S. stenotomum, S. phureja and S. goniocalyx. La informacin isoenzimtica fue til en la evaluacin de la precisin del sistema folklorico para identificar variedades. Se encontr un alto grado de asociacin entre el sistema de clasificacin usado por el campesino para denominar sus variedades, y los fenotipos electroforticos. La precisin del sistema de identidad folklorico en trminos electroforticos dependi del campesino entrevistado. La discrepancia mas frecuente entre los dos sistemas de nomenclatura consisti en llamar diferentes fenotipos electroforticos con el mismo nombre varietal, lo que result en una subestimacin de la variabilidad gentica presente en los campos. El nivel de variabilidad observado en la muestra de papas de la poblacin andina fue superior al observado en variedades norteamericanas y europeas. La variabilidad se midi en base al nmero de alelos, nmero de fenotipos electroforticos y porcentaje de heterocigosidad. Estos resultados estn de acuerdo con la impresin general de que todava existe mucha variabilidad en variedades de papa andinas que no ha sido an explotada. 
4257197|This is the first report on Mazahua knowledge and classification of plants and mushrooms and the roles of these resources in the local economy in the Monarch Butterfly Biosphere Reserve, Mexico. A total of 213 useful plant species and 31 species of edible mushrooms were recorded. Fruits of Prunus serotina, Rubus liebmanii, and Crataegus mexicana were the main wild fruit gathered by people (7.47, 4.40, and 1.82 tons of fruits per year, respectively), whereas their availability in the territory of the village was approximately 302.6, 6.0, and 34.188 tons. Brassica campestris, Rorippa nasturtium-aquaticum, Chenopodium berlandieri, and Amaranthus hybridus were the principal non-cultivated greens consumed by people (4.3, 0.5, 0.7, and 0.9 tons per year, while 23.6, 3.78, traces, and 46.0 tons, respectively, were available). Extraction of medicinal plants is low but gathering of Ternstroemia spp. flowers endangers local populations of these plants. All households of the village used fuelwood (1,767.2 tons per year), mainly of pine and oak species. Strategies for sustainable use of these resources are discussed.
4254858|Ginseng has long been one of this country's major botanical drugs in foreign trade. Once harvested only in the forests of the Eastern frontiers, it became a domesticated crop in the late 1800s and now is raised largely in northcentral Wisconsin. Growers there produce an estimated 90% of the cultivated ginseng in the United States. Most American ginseng has been consumed in the Orient, as is reflected in export records dating back to 1821. Over 95% of the nearly 21,000 metric tons (T) shipped in the period 1821-1983 went to the Far East. Hong Kong has served as the center for re-exporting ginseng to China and Southeast Asia. Ginseng has been used in Asia for many purposes, mostly as a curative agent. It has also gained increasing acceptance elsewhere in the world for its alleged value.
4257167|Medicinal plants and their endophytes are important resources for discovery of natural products. Several previous studies have found a positive correlation between total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and total phenolic content (TPC) of many medicinal plant extracts. However, no information is available on whether such a relationship also exists in their endophytic fungal metabolites. We investigated the relationship between TAC and TPC for 292 morphologically distinct endophytic fungi isolated from 29 traditional Chinese medicinal plants. The antioxidant capacities of the endophytic fungal cultures were significantly correlated with their total phenolic contents, suggesting that phenolics were also the major antioxidant constituents of the endophytes. Some of the endophytes were found to produce metabolites possessing strong antioxidant activities. Several bioactive constituents from the fungal cultures and host plant extracts were identified. This investigation reveals that the metabolites produced by a wide diversity of endophytic fungi in culture can be a potential source of novel natural antioxidants.
4255090|Origanum onites, widely used as a spice, grows wild in southern and southeastern Greece, especially in phryganic ecosystems. Like other woody plants of these ecosystems, it is characterized by seasonal dimorphism, an adaptation to face the summer drought. Its range in Greece is defined, and the features of its volatile oil are studied. It appears to be a fairly stable species, both from the morphological and chemical point of view. The high yields in volatile oil and high contents of carvacrol from all populations studied suggest the possibility of further profitable exploitation.
4254736|Seed-crop plants apparently originated from a limited number of mutants in which seed dispersal was changed from that found in nondomesticated populations. Seed nonshattering in cultivated plants may be controlled by a single gene or a small number of genes. Allopolyploid crop plants were derived from a limited number of interspecific hybridizations followed by chromosome doubling. The consequence of this founder effect is a narrow genetic variability in the crop population compared to its wild progenitor. Natural hybridization between the two is prevented by various isolating mechanisms, and gene flow, if it exists, is apparently more effective in the direction from the cultivated to the wild populations. Founder effect in crop-plant evolution indicates the value and the breeding potential of the genetic variability remaining in its wild relatives.
4251955|Industrial utilization of the vast wild vegetable resources of Latin America involves much more than the solution of technological problems. More difficult, at times, are the problems of labor, politics, transportation, native apathy and climate.
40390435|The authors are working on the project "Crop Flora of al-Andalus," which aims to recover the crop diversity of the Middle Ages in western Europe during the Islamic period. The documental sources of this study are all the agricultural treatises written in this territory and culture between the 10th and 14th centuries. Al-Andalus was the territory occupied by Islam between the 8th and 15th centuries, varying over time on varying regions on the Iberian Peninsula. In this period, a genuine agricultural revolution took place, as well as the incorporation into the Western world of many Eastern agricultural species. When we focused on the study of ornamental species used in gardens, courtyards, and houses, tulips could be identified in several texts, the main one being the 'Umda, a botanical work written at the end of the 11th century or beginning of the 12th, probably by the agronomist Abu l-Jayr. Tulips are mentioned in this text 500 years before the first known references to their introduction into Europe, traditionally asserted to be from the Ottoman Empire to Holland via Austria, always in the 16th century. Thus the route of these ornamental bulbs in their passage from East to West must be modified.
4256986| Commercial collection of alpine medicinal plants in Nepal is widely believed to destroy the resource base. This study explores the impact of three different collection methods on the regeneration of a frequently collected and traded plant species, Nardostachys grandiflora DC (Valerianaceae), listed in CITES Appendix II. The collected product is the plant rhizome from which essential oil is extracted. An experiment with 209 22 m plots on both south- and north-facing slopes of a valley in Gorkha District was conducted over two years. Harvesting 100% of the plants in plots followed by replanting of upper plant parts and 2 cm of the rhizome provided the fastest regeneration and rhizome biomass growth. 
4256220| Caiaras are inhabitants of the Atlantic Forest coast in SE Brazil. We studied the uses of plants by five Caiara communities and compared medicinal plant citations by informants in coastal and island communities. We use diversity indices to evaluate the use of plants and to compare communities. There is a high diversity of plants used in the Atlantic Forest coasts: we found 276 species used for food, medicine and construction. Caiaras rely on folk medicine, and medicinal plants were especially cited in interviews. Following predictions of island biogeography theory, we found a lower diversity of medicinal plants cited in islands compared to continental communities. /// Os caiaras so habitantes da costa da Mata Atlntica no SE do Brasil. Estudamos o uso de plantas em cinco comunidades caiaras e comparamos as citaes de plantas medicinais entre as comunidades da costa e das ilhas. Usamos indices de diversidade para comparar as comunidades. H uma alta diversidade de plantas usadas na costa da Mata Atlntica: encontramos 276 plantas usadas para alimento, medicina e construo. Os caiaras dependem da medicina tradicional, e plantas medicinais foram especialmente citadas nas entrevistas. Seguindo as expectativas da teoria de biogeografia de ilhas, encontramos uma diversidade menor de plantas medicinais citadas nas ilhas comparado s comunidades continentais. 
4255887| Sabal uresana was the palm most often discussed in published historic accounts from Sonora, Mexico, and the only palm mentioned from the earliest written documents to the present. An inventory of topographic maps identified 337 palm place names, thus reinforcing the cultural significance of palms in this region. Participant observation and formal interviews were used to learn how wild-harvested palms are utilized in present-day Sonora. Sabal uresana is the most economically important palm. Its leaves are employed for weaving, the major use of palms in this region, and for thatching and broom-making. Palm logs are used for construction and the fruits are eaten in certain parts of the state. The use of palms in Sonora is changing. Weaving and thatching could probably be maintained as viable crafts and sources of income with appropriate resource management and marketing. /// Sabal uresana fue la palma ms frecuentemente discutida en los registros histricos publicados para Sonora, Mxico, y la nica mencionada desde los documentos escritos ms antiguos al presente. En un inventario de mapas topogrficos fueron identificados 337 nombres para los palmares, reforzando as el significado cultural de las palmas en esta regin. Observacin participante y entrevistas formales fueron los mtodos utilizados para aprender el uso actual de las palmas silvestres en Sonora. Sabal uresana es la palma econmicamente ms importante. Las hojas son empleadas para tejer, lo cual es el mayor uso de las palmas en la regin, y para techar y hacer escobas. Los troncos son usados en la construccin y los frutos son comestibles en algunas partes del estado. La utilizacin de la palma en Sonora est cambiando, pero el tejido y techado podran mantenerse como actividades artesanales y fuentes de ingreso s se accompaan del debido manejo de los recursos naturales y la adecuada comercializacin de los productos. 
4255051|The role rattan plays in the life of a small Semai community in West Malaysia is discussed. Of the 24 rattan species occurring in the study area, four are frequently used for binding, house building, basketry, fish traps and snares, and other artifacts. These are briefly described and some illustrated. Some species are used for food, medicinal, and ritual purposes. The Semai have a profound knowledge of nature and have a good concept of rattan systematics that comes very close to scientific classification. Demand for rattan for commercial use threatens the rattan populations and has led to heavy depletion of some of the most useful species.
40390589|An ethnobotanical study was carried out with caboclos from the village of Caicubi, Roraima State, Brazil. This village is located between the Rio Negro and Rio Branco. The data were collected in 1 ha of terra firme forest and involved cabodo knowledge of the tree species with individuals dbh  10 cm. A total of 11 informants between 34 to 74 years of age were interviewed. The caboclos used 185 (98%) of the 189 species analyzed. The family with the highest use value for the community was Arecaceae. The species with the highest use value was Bertholletia excelsa. Arecaceae, Lecythidaceae, and Sapotaceae showed a wide variety of uses. The uses were grouped into eight categories; those with the highest use values were firewood, technology, and construction. The mean use value for species was 1.6. The most intensely used resources in the forest were wood, leaves, spines, and exudates.
4256516| Canoe construction was studied in a Maijuna community to better understand the role and significance of canoes in the life and subsistence strategies of an Amazonian group. In this community the types of canoes constructed and used by the Maijuna have changed considerably over the past 20 years. Twenty-seven species were identified as being specifically employed by the Maijuna to construct the type of dugout canoe currently being made in the community. The scarcity of preferred species used for canoe hulls directly affects the trees chosen for construction and may have been a contributing factor behind the complete switch from making the traditional type of dugout canoe. /// Se estudi la construccin de canoas en una comunidad Maijuna para comprender mejor el papel e importancia de las canoas en las estrategias de vida y subsistencia de un grupo amaznico. En esta comunidad los tipos de canoas construidos y usados por los Maijuna han cambiado considerablemente durante los ltimos 20 aos. Fueron identificadas veintisiete especies empleadas especficamente por los Maijuna para construir el tipo de piragua que est siendo hecha actualmente en la comunidad. La escasez de las especies usadas preferentemente para hacer los cascos de las canoas, afecta directamente a los rboles elegidos para su construccin, y puede haber sido un factor contributivo detrs del completo cambio en la produccin del tipo tradicional de piragua. 
4256916|An examination of the mythic and artistic records of India and Southeast Asia indicates that the famous psychotropic of the ancient Aryans was the eastern lotus, Nelumbo nucifera. Vedic epithets, metaphors, and myths that describe the physical and behavioral characteristics of the 'soma' plant as a sun, serpent, golden eagle, arrow, lightning bolt, cloud, phallic pillar, womb, chariot, and immortal navel, relate individually or as a whole to the eastern lotus. Since most Hindu and Buddhist gods and goddesses trace their origins from the Vedas and have always shared close symbolic associations with Nelumbo, there is reason to believe the divine status of this symbolic plant derives from India's prehistoric past.
40390612|Vanilla is a clonally propagated crop originating from Mesoamerica. Information regarding the circumstances under which vanilla cultivation began is incomplete. Presumably, the Totonac people of Papantla (north-central Veracruz, Mexico) were the earliest to cultivate vanilla; however, the oldest reports of vanilla use relate to the pre-Columbian Maya of southeastern Mexico/Central America, where vanilla was a cacao-beverage spice. We utilized Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP) marker diversity to infer the origins and relationships among cultivated and non-cultivated vanilla in Mesoamerica and on islands in the Indian Ocean, which comprise today's principal production regions of vanilla. Our results suggest that, genetically, vanilla cultivated outside of Mesoamerica is most closely related to cultivated stock from Papantla; whereas unique clones of V. planifolia are found in non-cultivated and cultivated individuals from elsewhere in Mesoamerica. This is consistent with a single origin for cultivated vanilla outside of Mexico, along with multiple origins for cultivated material within Mexico. These data suggest that vestiges of pre-Columbian Maya vanilla cultivars are not found in commercial production today.
4253175| Aqueous extracts of yaupon (Ilex vomitoria) fruit inhibited root growth of germinating cucumber seedlings. The inhibitory factor was slightly soluble in 80% ethanol, stable when stored up to 210 days at 22C in amber bottles and resisted breakdown when stored at -2C or 6C. Some loss of activity was evident in boiled extracts. Extraction of fruit of varying degrees of maturity indicated that the concentration of the inhibitor(s) in mature fruit was greater than in green fruit. The data suggest that the factor affects growth of the root rather than inhibiting germination. 
4251961|Hundreds of varieties in the five recognized species of this genus, all native to the Americas, are the sources of the well known pumpkins and squashes, of which about 150,000 tons, fresh weight, in 48 1/2 million No. 2 cans, is the annual canned pack alone in the United States. The seeds constitute a potential but so far wholly undeveloped source of valuable oil.
4251910|In 1947 about 40,000 tons of olives were harvested in the State, to be canned, crushed for oil, shipped fresh, chopped, brine-cured or otherwise prepared.
4255424| A few of the numerous small clay discs from Pre-Columbian Mesoamerica and South America contain accurate illustrations of the reproductive structures of important economic plants. The arrangement of seeds in fruit sections, axial or parietal, is shown for the Solanaceae (tomato, pepper) and the Cucurbitaceae (squash). The number of locules in Gossypium (cotton) bolls and the external appearance of the boll including the precise arrangement of the gossypol glands are illustrated. What are probably floral diagrams of these plant families are represented. The bell-shaped spindle whorls from the Quimbaya culture of Colombia have varied designs that resemble the campanulate flowers of Brugmansia (Datura, Solanaceae), which is known for its contorted flowers, and hallucinogenic effects. The native mythology and language, recorded in Mexico at the time of the conquest, indicates a pervasive interest in fruit and flower structure, which is reflected in the designs on the spindle whorls. These functional artifacts provide evidence of the accurate plant observation in the less well known cultures of Colombia and Ecuador. /// Slo unos pocos de los numerosos y pequeos discos de cermica precolombina de Mesoamrica y Amrica del Sur, contienen illustraciones correctas de las estructuras de reproduccin de plantas econmicas importantes. En ellas se muestra la distribucin de las semillas dentro de las secciones axial or parietal de la fruta, como en las Solanaceae (tomate y pimiento) y en las Cucurbitaceae (calabacn). Tambin se ilustra el nmero de lculos en la capsula de la Gossypium (algodn), al igual que su apariencia externa y la precisa distribucin de las glndulas de gossypol. Adems se representa, lo que probablemente sea, un diagrama de la flor de esta familia de plantas. En la cultura Quimbaya de Colombia, tambin se encuentran variados diseos de la forma de campana de los husos semejando las flores acampanadas de la Brugmansia (syn. Datura, Solanaceae). Estas flores han sido conocidas por sus deformaciones, y sus efectos alucingenos. Tanto la mitologia como la lengua indigena recogidas en Mxico en la poca de la conquista, indican un persistente inters en la estructura de la flor y del fruto de estas plantas, lo cual se ve reflejado en los diseos de los malacates. Estos artefactos tan funcionales, dan evidencia de una observacin bastante acertada de las plantas econmicas en otras culturas menos conocidas, como son las de Colombia y Ecuador. 
4252192|The search for new drugs from plants poses a number of problems. Collection, identification, selection, and testing of plants, as well as the extraction and isolation of potentially useful constituents are discussed, wih reference to the alkaloids as examples, from the point of view of the industrial research laboratory.
4252234|A number of Yucca, Agave and Nolina seeds have been analyzed for steroidal sapogenins. The content of sapogenins in the seeds of several Yucca species is particularly high.
4253015|The hydrology of the central delta of the Niger River is extremely complex, but the local cultivators have developed a remarkably sophisticated agriculture in order to deal with it. Crops, varieties and cultural practices are sensitively adjusted to variations in the height of the flood, soil texture, storage hazards, bird damage, nutritional needs and food preferences.
4287878|This edible corm of a sedge has long been valued throughout the Orient as a vegetable delicacy and as a source of medicine and starch. Imposition of an embargo in 1950 on commercial shipments from Communist China has promoted interest and experimentation in cultivating it in the climatically milder regions of the New World.
4254855| An ethnobotanical study was conducted among the Jicaque Indians of the Montaa de la Flor reservation in central Honduras to collect information regarding their plant-use practices. The data, including vernacular names, ecological settings, and uses, were recorded during collecting forays with Jicaque informants. Scientific and Jicaque names have been provided for 23 plant species used for food, 11 used for medicine, 4 used for beverages, 3 used as sources of wood, 5 in artifact manufacturing, and 3 used in other ways. Also, a list of 43 species is included for which the Jicaques have a name but no known use. 
4254576| Medicago sativa includes 2 polarly distinctive variants, subsp. sativa (M. sativa sensu stricto) and subsp. falcata (M. falcata), which are connected by intergrading variants commonly termed subsp.  varia (M. varia). Cultivated alfalfas and most wild and weedy relatives encountered are referable to this continuum of variation. Because of striking agronomic and ecological differences among the variants, it is desirable taxonomically to divide the continuum as precisely as possible. Towards an improved classification, canonical analysis was used to circumscribe the intermediate group of the M. sativa-falcata complex as inclusive of the middle range between the multivariate centres of the polar variants. The 3 most conservative characters examined, flower color, fruit coiling, and habit, were used in a discriminant function to create a simple tabular key. 
4254570|The range of genetic resources available for the improvement of grain legumes varies greatly in both its extent and accessibility. This can be related to the biosystematic relationships and the geographic dispersion of the crops together with the evolutionary age of the taxa from which they arose and related taxa. Harlan and de Wet's gene pool system can usefully be applied to the legumes. Primary gene pools are often extensive, secondary gene pools are usually restricted or nonexistent. Tertiary gene pools, though extensive, would require development of completely new techniques for exploitation.
4251857| Cocoa, coffee and tea, world-wide in their use, and yerba matte and guaran in South America are the great non-alcoholic beverages of plant origin which owe their stimulating qualities to their content of caffein or caffein-like alkaloids. 
4252083|Grapefruit is of American origin, possibly a natural hybrid between pummelo and orange of the Old World. The United States produces more than 90 percent of the world production in excess of 50 million boxes, and more than half of the American crop is now marketed in processed form.
25568898|This study was undertaken to contribute to the sustainable management of yam (Dioscorea sp.) diversity in Benin. We surveyed 220 farms from eight different villages in the north part of Benin. We hypothesized that the richness of yam cultivars is more related to farmers' ethnic group than to their geographical location. Cultivar diversity may differ from one ethnic group to another within a given area, but remains constant for a given ethnic group independent of its geographical location. This study identified 182 yam cultivars in the region; however, only a few farmers on a very small scale marginally produce more than 50% of that total richness. Cultivation practices as well as historical and socio-cultural determinants played important roles in the creation and maintenance of yam diversity within each ethnic group. The Bariba and the Gando ethnic groups, having developed yam cultivation since time immemorial, still hold the most diverse collection of yam varieties. The access of farmers to main roads and the availability of arable land in a given village greatly influenced the overall yam diversity in the region. This study highlighted the need to combine social determinants and geographical patterns in the conservation of agricultural diversity in Benin.
4254704|Electrophoresis revealed 153 variants at 19 enzyme loci among 77 accessions of annual teosinte, 1 accession of diploid perennial teosinte, 1 accession of tetraploid perennial teosinte, and 43 accessions of maize from Mexico and Guatemala. One hundred and thirty-three (87%) variants were found within teosinte, and 95 (61%) variants were found within maize. Seventy-four (48%) variants were distributed among both teosinte and maize, whereas 58 (38%) variants were found only in teosinte and 20 (13%) variants were found only in maize. The majority of alleles were found in low frequency. A single allele predominated across maize and teosinte at 11 loci, 3 loci showed similar trends and 5 loci showed greater variability for the predominant alleles among maize and teosinte. Principal components analysis revealed little overlap between maize and teosinte, involving a minority of maize collections and Balsas teosintes. No clear evidence could be seen suggesting recent introgression between maize and teosinte. The collections of maize and teosinte were seen to represent a rich and contrasted array of germplasm.
4251854|The exigencies of the recent war induced the establishment of rubber plantations in the New World, of which there may now be 30,000 acres in the Island of Haiti, Mexico, Central America and northern South America.
4255642| Peduncles of Cucurbita argyrosperma ssp. argyrosperma are present in collections of desiccated archaeological plant remains from at least seven prehistoric Ozark rockshelter sites. A radiocarbon date (Accelerator Mass Spectrometer method) on a fragment of one of these fruiting stems has a two-sigma calendric date range of A.D. 1280-1490. One C. argyrosperma ssp. argyrosperma peduncle excavated from the Cahokia site in Illinois was among contents of a sub-mound pit deposited during the 11th century A.D. Therefore, cushaw-like squashes were present in eastern North America before European contact, contrary to the long-held belief that Cucurbita pepo was the only prehistoric squash species in the region. Landraces of eastern North American cushaws were isolated from their Southwestern and Mexican argyrosperma progenitors for a longer period of time than previously believed. /// Pednculos de frutos de Cucurbita argyrosperma ssp. argyrosperma se encuentran presentes en colecciones arqueolgicas de residuos de plantas secas de por lo menos siete refugios rocosos prehistricos de Ozark. La fecha de radiocarbono (por el mtodo de Aceleracin con Espectmetro de Masa), aplicado a fragmentos de un pednculo, da un rango de A.D. 1280-1490 despus de calibracin dendrocronolgica. Similarmente, un pednculo de fruto de C. argyrosperma ssp. argyrosperma, encontrado en excavaciones realizadas debajo de un montculo del sitio de Cahokia en Illinois, tiene una fecha estimada de A.D. 1000-1050. Estos resultados suguieren que esta subespecie de calabaza estuvo presente en el Este de Norte Amrica antes del contacto con Europa, y contradice la creencia de que Cucurbita pepo fue la nica especie de calabaza prehistrica que estuvo presente en esta regin. Ademas, las variedades de calabaza "cushaw" cultivada en el Este de Norte Amrica fueron separadas de su progenitor C. argyrosperma del Suroeste y Mxico por un perodo de tiempo mucho ms largo de lo que previamente suponamos. 
4256251| The New World aquatic macrophyte Schoenoplectus californicus (= Scirpus californicus) is widespread along the Andes of Ecuador, where it is of great economic and cultural importance to indigenous people. Most importantly, its stems are used to make mats that are sold throughout the country with some exported to Colombia, Peru, the United States, and Italy. The estimated area of production in the Ecuadorian provinces of Imbabura, Cotopaxi, and Chimborazo is 442 hectares. One mat can be made from a 0.75 m
4255305| Data are presented on proximate analyses of the seeds and tuberous roots of Icacina oliviformis (Icacinaceae) from the Central African Republic. The seeds contain 80.7% nitrogen-free extract (NFE), 14.0% crude protein, and 0.5% crude fat (dry weight). The average moisture content of live seeds is 18.3%. The roots contain 84.5% NFE, 4.4% crude protein, and 1.6% crude fat (dry weight). The moisture content of the fresh root is ca. 59%. These results are comparable to those reported for commonly cultivated crops in the study area. The amino acid profile of the seed protein is comparable to that of a protein of moderately high quality, although digestibility was not tested. From a nutritional point of view, this species warrants consideration for integration into agroforestry schemes undertaken in areas where it is currently exploited. /// Les rsultats des analyses chimiques des graines et racines de Icacina oliviformis (Poiret) Raynal provenant de la Rpublique Centrafricaine sont prsents. Les graines contiennent 80,7% de matires non-azotes, 14,0% de protine, et 0,5% de lipides (poids sec). Le taux moyen d'humidit des graines vivantes est de 18,3%. Les racines contiennent 84,5% de matires non-azotes, 4,4% de protine, et 1,6% de lipides (poids sec). Le taux moyen d'humidit des racines est d'environ 59%. Ces rsultats sont comparables  ceux des plantes cultives dans l'aire d'tude. Le profil des acides amins des protines des graines est comparable  celui d'une protine de bonne qualit, mais on n'a pas examin la digestion de la protine. Du point de vue nutrition, cette espce mrite la considration dans les programmes d'agro-foresterie dans les rgions o Icacina oliviformis est dj exploite. 
4256644|Biases in the ethnohistoric literature of the Maohi have resulted in a misconception that cultivation practices were not well developed in the Society Islands. Though observations of cultivation practices are indeed few and far between in these sources, taken together they clearly indicate the importance of cultivated plants to many aspects of Maohi life. This paper documents 47 taxa, and many more varieties, that the Maohi relied on for food and technology. Cultivation techniques ranged from minimum tillage, to major modifications of the landscape. Few of these crops, and their associated cropping techniques, are used by the Maohi today.
4255569| Nineteen compounds are characterized by GC/MS and Kovats Indices in the oil of tipo, Minthostachys mollis Griseb., from Ecuador. The major compounds are 29.34  3.94% neomenthol, 24.00  5.23% menthone, 20.55  3.33% menthol, and 8.96  1.65% piperitone. / Diecinueve compuestos son identificados por GC/MS y los Indices de Kovats en el aceite esencial de tipo, Minthostachys mollis Griseb. de Ecuador. Los compuestos principales son 29.34  3.94% neomentol, 24.00  5.23% mentona, 20.55  3.33% mentol, y 8.96  1.65% piperitona. 
4255880| The pepino (or pepino dulce: Solanum muricatum) is a domesticate of interest because of its close relationship to tomatoes and potatoes, because it is enjoying increasing exposure in the international market, and because it is a cultigen with no known wild ancestor. Morphologically this South American native is a member of the Solanum sect. Basarthrum, and as such, is allied to a number of Andean wild species. Data from other studies are combined with results from restriction site analysis of chloroplast and nuclear ribosomal DNA to assay relationships and the potential origin of the pepino. The pepino may have existed in the wild previously and may be represented today only by the cultigen. However, if its ancestors are extant, three wild species-Solanum basendopogon (Per), S. caripense (Costa Rica through Per), S. tabanoense (Colombia and Ecuador)-emerge as most likely progenitors. Phylogenetic analyses of 61 accessions, including 27 of the pepino, dependent on chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) and nuclear ribosomal (rDNA) restriction site data show the pepino to be polymorphic, suggest independent origins for some of the cultivars, and most strongly support S. tabanoense as the progenitor of the cultigen. Solanum caripense also may have been a direct ancestor of the pepino, or may have hybridized subsequent to its origin with the pepino to yield some of the haplotype variation. Similarly, S. cochoae may have hybridized with the pepino. There are no DNA characters supporting the involvement of S. basendopogon in the origin. /// El 'pepino' (o 'pepino dulce': Solanum muricatum) es una planta domesticada de gran inters por estar estrechamente emparentada con los tomates y papas, porque su dispersin en el mercado internacional est incrementando y porque es un cultigen con ancestro silvestre desconocido. Morfolgicamente esta planta natural de Sudamrica es un meimbro del gnero Solanum sect. Basarthrum, y como tal, est ligada a varias especies silvestres de la regin andina. Datos provenientes de estudios previos son combinados aqu con los resultados del anlisis de sitios de restriccin en el ADN ribosmico nuclear y plastidial para investigar el parentesco y el origen potencial del pepino. Este ltimo pudo haber existido previamente en estado silvestre y hoy en da estar probablemente representado slo por el cultigen. Sin embargo, si sus ancestros estn extintos, tres expecies silvestres-Solanum basendopogon (Per), S. caripense (de Costa Rica hasta Per), S. tabanoense (Colombia y Ecuador)-aparecen como los progenitores ms probables. Anlisis filogenticos de 61 ancestros incluyendo 27 del pepino, localizados en los sitios de restriccin del ADN plastidial (cpDNA) y ADN ribosmico (rDNA), muestran que el pepino es polimrfico, sugiriendo al mismo tiempo orgenes independientes para algunos de los cultivares, y sustentan fuertemente a S. tabanoense como progenitor del cultigen. Solanum caripense tambin pudo haber sido ancestro directo del pepino, o podra haberse hibridizado despus de su orgen con algunas de las accesiones del pepino para eliminar as algo de la variacin haplotpica. De la misma manera, S. cochoae pudo haberse hibridizado con el pepino. No existen caracteres del ADN que sugieran la implicacin de S. basendopogon en el orgen. 
4256359|Different human societies have different biodiversity around them; there is diversity in their food habits, ailments, occupations, daily routine, social customs, needs, and notions about natural phenomena. They have different domestic animals, and consequently, different veterinary diseases to manage. These circumstances have given rise to very diverse experiences among indigenous societies about plant wealth around them. Over generations, this has made very rich additions to the interrelationships between man and plant wealth around him. Faith, tradition, taboos and several such associations with forests and particular plant species have helped in conservation of plant diversity. The richness of plant diversity in any area, is not evaluated merely by the number of species occurring there, but by the intensity of associations and dependence of the indigenous communities on that plant wealth. Respect for this indigenous knowledge, and relationship helps in conservation.
4287954|Schinus molle, in its native habitat, Peru, is used variously as a mildly alcoholic beverage (fruit), medicine (leaf extracts and sap), and infrequently as a yellow dye and tannin. The species has been introduced into Mexico, the southwestern United States and southern Europe, but in none of these areas is the plant much more than an infrequent ornamental.
4256917|This study focuses on plants used for medicinal purposes in the Mt. Pelion area of Greece; however other plant uses were noted when discovered. A total of 225 taxa representing 77 families are presented along with habitat data and ethnobotanical information when relevant. Some notes on related species are also included. In addition to ethnobotanical field research which included collection of voucher specimens, ancient literature pertaining to plant usage was also consulted. Local markets that sold wild plants or their products were investigated as well. Some plants not known to be ethnobotanically significant were also collected in order to learn more about species distribution on Mt. Pelion. It is possible that ancient plant usage information that was lost due to the destruction of classical literary works has survived in the oral tradition in the Mt. Pelion area and elsewhere in Greece. A number of little known psychoactive and narcotic plant uses (including ivy as an additive to wine) are reported in this publication.
41242927|Interest in landrace conservation has grown over the last few decades with much research focusing on the maintenance of on-farm crop genetic diversity in the tropics. Research on landraces is less abundant in temperate climates. In this paper we assess landrace conservation status in home gardens in Vali Fosca (Catalan Pyrenees, Iberian Peninsula). We estimate the individual sociodemographic attributes associated with in situ conservation of landraces and explore the reasons for their conservation. Fieldwork was conducted March-September 2008, during which time we surveyed 60 home gardens, owned by 53 tenders from 16 villages. We recorded occurrence, abundance, uses, and management of plants cultivated in home gardens. We also inquired about the informants' reasons for conserving landraces. We found 148 different species. We identified 39 landraces corresponding to 31 species. Women, people over 65 years of age, experienced gardeners, and people who grow their home garden organically were more likely to conserve landraces than people without those characteristics. Although the informants express a strong preference for landraces, they mainly grow commercial varieties. Landraces seem to be displaced by less laborintensive commercial varieties. Las ltimas dcadas han visto un aumento del inters en la conservacin de cultivos de gestin local, con la investigacin centrndose especialmente en el mantenimiento in situ de la agrobiodiversidad en los trpicos. La investigacin sobre los cultivos de gestion local es menos abundante en climas templados. En este artculo evaluamos el estado de conservacin de cultivos de gestin local en huertos de la Vali Fosca (Pirineo cataln, Pennsula Ibrica). Estimamos la asociacin entre atributos socio-demogrficos de la persona y la conservacin in situ de los cultivos de gestin local y exploramos las razones de su conservacin. Entre los meses de marzo y setiembre del ao 2008 se estudiaron 60 huertos, regentados por 53 hortolanos. Registramos la ocurrencia, abundancia, usos, y gestin de todas las plantas cultivadas en los huertos. Tambin preguntamos a los informantes sus razones para conservar los cultivos de gestion local. Encontramos 148 especies diferentes, e identificamos 39 cultivos de gestion local correspondientes a 31 espcies. Las mujeres, las personas mayores de 65 aos, los hortelanos expertos, y las personas que gestionan su huerto de forma orgnica tienden a conservar ms cultivos de gestin local que las personas sin estas caractersticas. Aunque los informantes expresaron una fuerte preferencia hacia los cultivos de gestin local, principalmente cultivaban variedades comerciales. Parece que los cultivos de gestin local han sido desplazados por variedades comerciales ms fciles de cultivar.
27807239|An improved understanding of how local people view their impacts on the resources they exploit and how they perceive that their resources are affected by other factors can provide insight into reasons some resources are overexploited and into strategies to conserve them. In West Africa, various tree species are heavily harvested by indigenous herders for foliage to feed their cattle. The reported declines in populations of several of these species have both biological and cultural implications, as cattle are an integral part of indigenous cultures and livelihoods. In this study we investigated Fulani herders' practices, knowledge, and perceptions of the ecological impacts of harvesting foliage of African mahogany, Khaya senegalensis, in Benin, and we tested some of the factors that may influence them. Fulani herders have detailed ecological knowledge of their impacts on the resources they depend on, and this is finely tuned to local ecological conditions. This knowledge is also widely spread across different sectors of Fulani communities and is highly congruent with scientific findings. However, due to the open-access context of K. senegalensis populations, detailed knowledge of sustainability does not translate into sustainable practices. Fulani perceptions of threats to populations differ significantly between ecological regions and provide key insights for locally relevant resource management plans. Traditional Fulani practices such as the sopoodu provide a basis for sustainable management of proposed Fulani-owned K. senegalensis plantations. This study illustrates how the assessment of local ecological knowledge, practices, and perceptions can play a key role in the design of culturally-appropriate conservation plans.
4251931|These varieties, still cultivated in a primitive manner, may have value for hybridizing with Burley and Virginia tobaccos. In Venezuela the leaves are manufactured into cigars or are extracted to produce the masticatories known as "chimo" and "tobacco rope".
41242932|Yarrow (Achillea millefolium L.) is one of the most widely used medicinal plants in the world, primarily for wounds, digestive problems, respiratory infections, and skin conditions, and secondarily, among other uses, for liver disease and as a mild sedative. Preclinical studies indicate that it may have anti-inflammatory, anti-ulcer, hepatoprotective, anxiolytic, and perhaps antipathogenic activities. Animal studies have also shown that yarrow is generally safe and well tolerated. The claim that yarrow has been shown to be specifically contraindicated during pregnancy is based on a single low-quality rat study the results of which were incorrectly interpreted. The combination of human use data from multiple cultures, independently reporting similar activities for yarrow, and the discovery of potentially relevant bioactivities by in vitro and animal studies represent meaningful evidence of the plant's efficacy. We therefore argue that human clinical trials should be funded and conducted.
4255410| The present study was designed to advance the classification of the Mexican races of maize as part of the process of revising the Razas de Maz en Mxico by Wellhausen et al. The interrelationships among the races are examined by numerical taxonomy of morphological characters and the comparison of classifications with previous studies. Forty-nine Mexican races, represented by 148 collections, were grown in several locations and seasons in Mxico from 1982 to 1984; 47 characters were measured directly. For the analysis using numerical taxonomy, characters with the ratio
4256292| Ocimum species are used both in Brazilian traditional medicine against bronchitis, coughs, and sorethroat, and in foods and flavorings. The traditional uses of basil in Brazil are reviewed and fourteen accessions of basil, O. americanum (1), O. basilicum (3), O. campechianum (3), O. gratissimum (5), and O. selloi (2) were collected and brought from Brazil to the USA and grown at Purdue University. Upon flowering, the volatile oils were extracted by hydrodistillation and chemically analyzed by GC/MS. Accessions of O. gratissimum showed high eugenol (40-66%) and high thymol (31%), as a relative percentage of total volatile oil. Ocimum campechianum accessions showed high 1,8-cineole (62%) and -caryophyllene (78.7%). Accessions of O. basilicum were found to be rich in 1,8-cineole (22%), linalool (49.7%), methyl chavicol (47%) or methyl (E)-cinnamate (65.5%). An O. americanum var. americanum accession showed high methyl (E)-cinnamate (>90%). Volatile oils of O. basilicum and O. gratissimum naturalized in Brazil reflected the range of chemotypes found in their country of origin. Unusual basils from other Ocimum species were identified that can serve as genetic sources of aroma chemicals for crop improvement. /// Espcies de Ocimum so usadas na medicina tradicional brasileira contra bronquite, tosses e dores de garganta, assim como condimento para alimentos e aromatizante. Os usos tradicionais de basil foram revisados e catorze acessos de O. americanum (1), O. basilicum (3), O. campechianum (3), O. gratissimum (5), e O. selloi foram coletados e introduzidos nos Estados Unidos onde foram cultivados na Universidade de Purdue. Oleos volteis de plantas em floracao extraidos por hidrodestilacao foram analizados via GS/MS. Acessos de O. gratissimum mostraram alto teor de eugenol (40-66%) e timol (31%), em percentagem relativa do teor de leo total. Acessos de O. campechianum mostraram alto teor em 1,8-cineole (62%) e -caryophyllene (78.7%). Os acessos de O. basilicum apresentaram-se ricos em 1,8-cineole (22%), linalol (49.7%), metil chavicol (47%) ou cinamato de metila (65.5%). Um acesso de O. americanum var. americanum (bra60) mostrou um teor alto de cinamato de metila (>90%). Os oleos volateis de O. basilicum e O. gratissimum naturalizados no Brasil refletem a extencao dos tipos quimicos encontrados em seus paises de origem. Especies incomuns de basil foram identificadas e podem servir como germoplasma para melhoramento. 
4256488| Weaving hats with jipi, Carludovica palmata (Cyclanthaceae) has built the local economy and cultural identity for the people of Becal, in the Yucatn Peninsula, Mexico. They obtain most material from cultivated sources, weave in man-made caves, and market the goods to commercial centers. Because Jipi does not appear to deplete the soil, they do not need to clear more land for sustainable production. Although weaving traditionally served as the main source of income and social activity in Becal, interest in weaving is declining as the town modernizes. Although profits gained from weaving add to family earnings, because of the many hands through which the hat passes, this income remains low compared to the final selling prices. Thus, many who have the opportunity to pursue other careers are doing so. However, for rural communities, without other earning options, weaving may provide an economically and environmentally advantageous way to use the land. 
4251836|In the production of which, the application of genetical knowledge and technique has increased the American corn crop billions of bushels, worth billions of dollars.
40390616|Buriti palm is used for several purposes in Jalapo, Brazil, among which harvesting of young leaves has the greatest potential impact on palm populations. This work aimed to (i) assess buriti palm uses, (ii) identify experimentally the impacts of young-leaf harvesting on growth, survival, and leaf production of individuals, (iii) evaluate density and structure of buriti populations at different distances from a local harvester community, and (iv) quantify the fiber yield of young leaves. We conducted 21 interviews, sampled six buriti palm populations, and monitored 60 buriti individuals to evaluate the impacts of harvesting young leaves. The harvesting practices of artisans did not affect the survival, leaf production, or growth of buriti individuals. The buriti palm is abundant and has a "reverse J" population structure, indicating population regeneration. However, some signs of overexploitation were pointed out by local harvesters and observed in the field; therefore, we recommend management practices that would contribute to sustainability, such as harvesting young leaves from individuals with a large number of mature green leaves, and harvesting young leaves in sites far from the communities. /// Buriti  usado para inmeras finalidades no Jalapo, dentre elas, o extravismo de folhas jovens tern o maior potencial de impacto nas populaes. Este trabalho teve por objetivos (i) descrever os usos do buriti, (ii) testar impactos do extrativismo de folhas jovens no crescimento, sobrevivncia e produo de folhas dos individuos, (iii) caracterizar a densidade e estrutura de populaes em veredas a diferentes distncias da comunidade da Mumbuca, e (iv) quantificar a produo de fibras obtidas das folhas jovens. Fizemos 21 entrevistas com extrativistas, amostramos seis populaes de buriti e monitoramos 60 indivduos para avaliar os impactos do extrativismo. O extrativismo no afetou a sobrevivncia, a produo de folhas e nem o crescimento dos indivduos. As populaes de buriti so abundantes e tem estrutura em formato de J invertido, o que facilita a regenerao. Sinais de superexplorao foram identificados por artesos e verificados em campo, por isto, recomendamos algumas prticas de manejo que podem contribuir para a sustentabilidade do extrativismo, como coletar folhas jovens de indivduos com maior nmero de folhas maduras e em veredas mais distantes das comunidades.
4254318| The Chinese tallow tree (Sapium sebiferum Roxb.) is a rapid-growing species that has become naturalized along the Gulf and southern Atlantic coasts. The tree is particularly well adapted to poorly-drained and saline soils. Chinese tallow seedlings planted at 2  2 spacing produced over 5 dry tons of biomass/acre at the end of the second growing season while the biomass accumulation on coppiced plots was more than 7 dry tons/acre at the end of the second year. The Chinese tallow tree has considerable promise as a woody biomass species in the southern coastal regions of the United States. 
4255503| The purpose of this study is to record the popular uses of various medicinal plants collected in the market medicinal stalls of Monterrey, Nuevo Len, Mxico. One hundred and thirty-five medicinal plants were collected from 11 hierberias (stalls) of two mercados (markets) and two additional medicinal plant sources. Included is a total of 70 species in 65 genera of 38 plant families. The plant vendors of the hierberias were interviewed to determine the folk uses of these plants. Eighty-five folk uses, of both general and specific nature, are reported for the specimens collected. / El objetivo de este estudio fue el de registrar los usos populares de varias plantas medicinales colectadas en hierberias de Monterrey, Nuevo Len, Mxico. Ciento treinta y cinco especmenes de plantas medicinales fueron colectados en 11 hierberias de dos mercados y en dos fuentes ms de plantas medicinales. Este estudio incluye un total de 70 especies en 65 gneros de 38 familias de plantas. Los vendedores en las hierberias fueron entrevistados para determinar los usos caseros de las plantas. Ochenta y cinco usos caseros, de naturaleza tanto general como especifica, fueron reportados para los especimenes colectados. 
4254434|This article arises from a recent expedition to collect seed samples of the white lupin (Lupinus albus) in Iberia. Observations on the distribution, uses, agronomy and status of the grain legume are presented. The cultivation of white lupin is more common in Portugal than in Spain where decreasing interest in the crop is leading to a gradual disappearance of potentially valuable genetic material.
4254871|Plant breeding improvements have been responsible for 50 percent or more of the gains in yield per unit area of major crop plants in the United States over the past 50 yr. Rates of gain attributable to genetic improvements have averaged 1% per year, have generally been linear, and show no sign of slackening. Extrapolations indicate that varieties and hybrids of the year 2000 will yield, on average, 15% more than those of 1985. Improvements in tolerance to environmental stress, in grain-to-straw ratios, and in standability, as well as maintenance of required levels of resistance to disease, insect and nematode pests, have been the major genetic causes of higher achieved yields and will continue to be the foundation for further gains in productivity and stability. Broadened genetic diversity is also an increasingly important goal to promote stability and increase productivity potentials. Proportionately large research inputs are now needed to maintain desired rates of improvement, compared to earlier years. It seems likely that contributions from biotechnology will become increasingly important in years to come if improvement rates are to be maintained.
4254038|Previous work revealed significant variations in cannabinoid profiles of Cannabis sativa L. derived from a single seed source (P.I. 378939) and subjected to the same growth environment. Studies were conducted to evaluate the efficacy of propagation of C. sativa by vegetative cuttings in order to increase uniformity of cannabinoid concentrations within a given plant population. C. sativa was successfully propagated by vegetative cuttings. However, there were both morphological and biochemical differences between seed-derived plants and their vegetative propagules.
4254963|The argan tree, Argania sideroxylon Roem. & Schult. (A. spinosa (L.) Maire), of the family Sapotaceae, essential to the dwellers of southwestern Morocco and long admired by explorers and travelers, has remained little known to botanists and horticulturists outside its natural area. It is slow growing and long lived on calcareous soil. The young seedlings furnish almost the only forage for goats and other herbivores during several months of the year and the animals relish the flesh of the abundant fruits. The ejected seeds yield a yellow oil commonly consumed as human food. Among its constituents are four sterols, two methylsterols, and five triterpenic alcohols. The wood is hard, prized locally, and much used for fuel. Excessive exploitation of the tree has stimulated local moves toward conservation and cultivation. Argan seedlings are being grown experimentally at the U.S.D.A. Subtropical Horticulture Research Unit, Miami, and by Victor Wynne in Haiti, with a view to trial in semi-arid regions of near-Mediterranean climate. In English greenhouse culture, vegetative propagation has been achieved by cuttings and layers.
4252517|The leaves of 85 commercially important Southeastern Australian forest species have been examined for rutin and the methods of extracting and manufacturing rutin from Eucalypts critically assessed. Rutin was found in five species (Eucalyptus alpina, E. baxteri, E. blaxlandi, E. caliginosa, E. cannoni) in which it had not previously been reported. Its presence was confirmed in E. delegatensis, E. macrorrhyncha, E. youmani, Grevillea robusta. The relationship of leaf-age, altitude, locality and season to rutin content within species was investigated, particularly in the case of E. macrorrhyncha.
4255341| This paper deals with ethnobotany of the Great Andamanese tribe. Brief accounts of Andaman geography, ethnology, and previous ethnobotanical studies are given. Plants used in everyday life, such as for bows and arrows, canoes, fibers, food, medicines, rituals, musical instruments, tools, and shelter, are described and discussed. Scientific and vernacular names, uses, and ethnobotanical importance are listed. /// Cet expos a pour sujet l'ethnobotanique de la grande tribu Andamanaise. De courts compte-rendus de la gographie des tes, de l'ethnologie et des tudes ethnobotaniques rtrospectivement en plus de la mthodologie du prsent travail, sont donns. Des plantes employes dans la vie quotidienne, par exemple pour fabriquer des arcs et des flches, des canoes, des fibres de la nourriture, des mdicaments, des rituels, des instruments, de musique, des outils et l'abri, sont dcrites et discutes. Des noms scientifiques et vernaculaires, les emplois et l'importance ethnobotanique sont numrs. 
4254473|Fluted pumpkin, Telfairia occidentalis, is native to West Africa but occurs mostly in its cultivated form in various parts of southern Nigeria. It is widely cultivated for its palatable and nutritious leaves which are used mainly as vegetable. The seeds are also nutritious and rich in an oil which may be used for cooking and soap manufacture. Its taxonomy, morphology and potential uses are discussed in relation to its economic importance as a tropical crop.
4256643|There is increasing pressure from communities neighbouring protected areas in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, to harvest resources from these areas. For example, Hyphaene coriacea Geartn. (vegetable ivory palm) leaves are extensively used by Zulu people for commercial and subsistence craftwork. This study investigates the effect of varying leaf harvest intensities on leaf production of Hyphaene coriacea in the Greater St Lucia Wetland Park in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, and aims to provide some management guidelines for sustainable use. Replicate plots subjected to three different harvest intensities were established and numbers and lengths of unopened leaves were monitored over four years. Results suggest that a harvest intensity of one leaf
4256607| Chaya (Cnidoscolus aconitifolius ssp. aconitifolius Breckon) is a domesticated leafy green vegetable of the Maya region of Guatemala, Belize, southeast Mexico and the Yucatn Peninsula, and parts of Honduras. Though relatively unknown outside of this area, evidence suggests that chaya was of significant importance to ancient peoples of the Yucatn Peninsula and perhaps elsewhere within the Maya region. Here we review what little research has been done on this impressive plant, as well as recount our own ethnobotanical investigation into its use as a food plant and medicine, and discuss its botany, nomenclature, and agricultural use. Due to its ease of cultivation, potential productivity, and above all its substantial nutritional value, we propose chaya as a potential crop for areas outside Mesoamerica. /// La chaya (Cnidoscolus aconitifolius ssp. aconitifolius Breckon) es una verdura domesticada de la regin Maya de Guatemala, Belice, el Sureste de Mxico y la pennsula de Yucatn, y partes de Honduras. Aunque es poco conocida afuera de esta regin, la evidencia sugiere que la chaya era una planta importante para los antiguos Mayas de la pennsula de Yucatn, y tal vez en otras partes de la regin Maya. A continuacin presentamos la poca investigacin realizada sobre esta sorprendente planta, a la vez presentamos resultados de nuestra investigacin etnobotnica acerca de su uso como verdura y medicina, y discutimos su botnica, nomenclatura, y su agricultura. Dada la facilidad de cultivarla, su productividad potencial, y sobre todo su alto valor nutritivo, proponemos la chaya como cultivo potencial para regiones afuera de Mesoamrica. 
4255314| Plants used for food by the Luo-speaking people of Siaya District, Kenya, were surveyed as part of a comprehensive ethnobotanical study. Fifty-two crops were observed under cultivation in the district; 69 species are gathered from the wild. Wild fruits, underground portions, leaves, and fungal fruiting bodies are probably important in Siaya as dietary supplements. These non-cultivated resources, particularly important in the driest areas of the district, warrant evaluation for their role as a buffer against periods of food shortage. /// Dans le cadre d'une tude ethnobotanique importante, nous avons rpertori les plantes utilises dans l'alimentation du peuple Luo du district de Siaya (Kenya). Bien que nous ayons observ la culture de 52 espces de plantes dans ce district, quelques 69 plantes sont cueillies  l'tat sauvage. Les fruits sauvages, les racines, les feuilles et les champignons constituent donc probablement un important complment au rgime alimentaire du peuple de Siaya. Ces ressources alimentaires non cultives sont particulirement importantes dans les parties les plus arides du district et mritent une valuation plus approfondie quant a leur rle lors de pnurie alimentaire. 
4256776| This study represents a systematic attempt to quantify and compare the degree of familiarity among rural and urban El Salvadorian adolescents with ujushte, Brosimum alicastrum Sw. (Moraceae). To do this, we administered a written questionnaire to 177 students attending school in either San Franciso Menndez or Apopa, El Salvador. Using a closed-end format, the students provided information about their knowledge of the tree and its fruit, frequency and enjoyment of consumption, method of preparation, and the source of their knowledge. Although most of the rural students knew of the tree and ate its fruit, very few of the urban students indicated familiarity. Statistical hypothesis testing demonstrated that the discrepancy between rural and urban knowledge could not be accounted for by differences in reported socioeconomic status. Grandparents were cited as the most important source of information about ujushte. 
4252069|The female cone-like inflorescences of this vine are composed of scales covered with glandular hairs which produce, among other compounds, the bitter principle which has long been an indispensable ingredient in the brewing of beer. These large-scale catkins have been used also in medicine because of their sedative and soporific properties, and as a tonic.
4254180| Antibody systems were produced in rabbits by immunization with antigen systems from seed of Zea mays, Z. mexicana and Tripsacum dactyloides. Antigen systems were generally ranked in the following order using Zea antibody systems: Zea > Tripsacum > Elyonurus  Bothriochloa > Coix  Manisuris > Andropogon  Triticum. Tripsacum antibody systems also ranked these antigen systems in a similar order except that Tripsacum > Zea, and Manisuris  Bothriochloa  Elyonurus. Some Tripsacum species produced anomalous results. Serology suggests that Zea and Tripsacum should be placed together in the subtribe Tripsacinae of the tribe Andropogoneae: the tribe Maydeae is probably an unnatural assemblage. Tripsacum and Zea have probably evolved from ancestors with affinities to the subtribes Rottboellinae and Bothriochloeae of the tribe Andropogoneae. The high degree of serological correspondence shown by Elyonurus to Zea suggests a close common ancestry, but Manisuris appears no more similar to Tripsacum than do other genera of the Rottboellinae and Bothriochloeae. By polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, no differences were found between maize and teosinte from Mexico and north Guatemala. Teosinte from south Guatemala consistently lacked bands present in both maize and Mexican teosinte but shared no greater similarity to Tripsacum and cannot therefore be considered as tripsacoid. The high degree of band homology between maize and Mexican teosinte supports a parental relationship and it is suggested that Mexican teosinte represents the germ plasm from which maize was domesticated. Neither electrophoretic nor serological results supported the hypothesized hybrid (viz. Zea  Manisuris) origin of Tripsacum. 
4256932|Isozyme analyses were conducted to study the geographic variation of Capsicum frutescens L. in Southeast and East Asia, and to investigate its dispersal routes into Japan. Eight enzymes (EST, FM, G6PD, GR, ME(A), PGI, PGM, ShDH) were variable among accessions of C. frutescens in Southeast and East Asia. Accessions from the Ryukyu Islands were closely related to those in Indonesia, whereas accessions from the Bonin Islands showed exactly the same isozyme patterns as those from Indonesia and Northern Thailand. Accessions in the Ryukyu Islands were different from those in the Bonin Islands, suggesting that there may be two independent dispersal routes into Japan. One route was from Indonesia via the Philippines or Taiwan, or directly to the Ryukyu Islands, and another was from Indonesia via the Mariana Islands, or other islands in the Pacific, to the Bonin Islands.
4254378|Members of Jaltomata are herbaceous perennials distributed from southwestern United States into Bolivia, and annuals in the Caribbean and Galapagos Islands. The described species do not fully represent the diversity of this genus. For example, the widespread species, J. procumbens, exhibits morphological variation in several regions of Mexico and Central America. These regions of variation may be in part the result of the plants' association with humans. There is a very close match in the geographical distributions of the Tarahumara, Zapotec, Tzeltal, and Chuj cultures and the variant populations of Jaltomata in Chihuahua, Oaxaca, Chiapas (Mexico), and Huehuetenango (Guatemala), respectively. The results of the interaction of Jaltomata and humans are discussed in a general evolutionary context. Observations of Jaltomata among the Tarahumara in Chihuahua are presented as a starting point for further elucidation of progressive domestication. This encouraged weed is recognized as an intermediate between the wild and domesticate. Many vernacular names have been applied to Jaltomata; some of these names are also applied to noncongeners (e.g., members of the Solanum nigrum complex).
4254608| The issue of plant species used by the ancient Maya of the Yucatan region previous to A.D. 900-1,000 has involved a number of types of arguments, 5 of which are identified: ecological speculation, ethnobotany, plant relicts, linguistics/iconography, and plant remains/fossils. Recent emphasis on uncovering and analyzing plant remains from Maya occupational and agricultural relics demonstrates that direct evidence from archaeological contexts can be obtained. This evidence, including fossil pollen, seeds, and stem and wood fragments, is used to evaluate various issues involving those species proposed to have been used by the Maya. The results support views dealing with the dominance of maize as a staple and the use of squash, agave, cotton, and tree species. Propositions concerning significance of ramn, cacao, root crops, and amaranth are not yet supported by direct evidence. 
4254788|The historical roots of ethnobotany in North America are in the Greater Southwest. Today this region still provides the opportunity to study the biological bases of plant-people interactions and relationships. Various plants of the Southwest are discussed in the contexts of 1) recognition, short- and long-term values, and manipulation of resources, 2) changes in species diversity of edible plants, 3) domestication, and 4) role of archaeological, historical, and contemporary information in ethnobotany.
4251852|The latest applications of physiologic principles to the solution of agricultural and horticultural problems involve the use of synthetic hormones to stimulate rooting of cuttings, to effect blossom thinning in fruit production, to prevent pre-harvest fruit drop, to produce seedless fruit, to achieve control of weeds, to break as well as to prolong dormancy, and to bring about other economically important controls of plant growth.
4255830| A preliminary assessment of the utilization of plant species was undertaken within an Amerindian community at Kurupukari, Guyana. A total of 120 plant species of 46 plant families, covering 246 different plant uses were identified. Plant uses were divided into six utilization categories; 64 species for medicinal, 53 for technological, 43 edible, 20 for timber, 14 for construction and two species with miscellaneous uses. Of the 120 plant species, one species was recorded with five different use categories, two with four and 13 with three. A further 23 species were identified as having multiple uses. Of the 20 commercial timber species, five species were also shown to exhibit some form of non-timber product use, emphasising the under-utilization of species extraction. The dual extraction of both timber and non-timber resources from the same tree as a more effective sustainable utilization of available forest resources is also discussed. /// Se emprendi un estudio inicial del aprovechamiento de especies de plantas en un pueblo amerindio a Kurupukari (Guyana). Un total de 120 especies de 46 familias de plantas fueron identificadas que abarcaron 246 aprovechamientos distintos de las plantas. Los aprovechamientos de las plantas fueron divididos en seis categorias de uso: 64 especies tienen usos medicinales y 53 tecnolgicos, 43 se consideran comestibles, 20 sirven para maderas, 14 para la construccin y 2 se aprovechan para usos varios. Entre las 120 especies de plantas, una fue registrada en cinco de las categoras de uso, dos fueron registradas en cuatro y 13 en tres. Otras 23 especies fueron identificadas como plantas de aprovechamientos mltiples. Se puso de manifiesto que entre las 20 especies aprovechadas para la produccin de maderas, cinco se aprovechan tambin para algn uso distinto, lo que destaca la infrautilizacin de la extraccin de las especies. Se comenta tambin la explotacin ms sostenible de los recursos forestales disponibles que puede resultar de la doble extraccin del mismo arbol de recursos tanto de madera como de otro tipo. 
4255311| We have identified underground organs belonging to 13 species in 9 families that are being sold as medicinal in the Market #4 of Asuncin currently known as "Pettirossi." Eleven of those 13 species grow wild in Oriental Paraguay, one is naturalized, and one is only cultivated. These organs are locally used to combat rheumatism, diabetes, hepatitis, syphilis, stomachache, flatulence, arthrosis, parasites, diarrhea, and throatache, and as postfebril cooling, diuretic, and laxative. /// Hemos identificado rganos vegetales subterrneos pertenecientes a 13 especies en nueve familias que se expenden como medicinales en el Mercado #4 de Asuncin comnmente conocido como "Pettirossi." Once de las 13 especies crecen silvestres en Paraguay Oriental, una est naturalizada y una es solamente cultivada. Esto rganos se usan para combatir reumatismo, diabetes, hepatitis, sfilis, dolor de estmago, flatulencias, artrosis, parsitos, diarrea y dolor de garganta, y como refrescante postfebril, diurtico, y laxante. 
4256576| A questionnaire was used to measure plant use knowledge for 18 plants from 40 randomly selected Winikina Warao respondents of two villages in the Orinoco River Delta, Venezuela. Five use values are presented: reported use (RU) value for each plant and plant part; plant part value (PPV); specific use (SU) value; intraspecific use value (IUV); and overall use value (OUV). The overall use value can be used to target plants of potential interest to researchers. Although certain precautions must be taken when undertaking this type of study, questionnaires are important tools that can be used to assess the dynamic interplay between people and the plants they use. /// Un cuestionario fue utilizado para medir el conocimiento de 18 plantas usadas por los Winikina Waroa del delta del rio Orinoco, Venezuela. Cinco valores de uso son presentados: valor de uso reportado (RU) para cada planta y parte de planta; valor de la parte de planta (PPV); valor de uso especifico (SU); y valor de uso total (OUV). El valor de uso total se puede utilizar para escoger plants de inters a investigadores. Aunque es necesario tomar ciertas precauciones para emprender un estudo de este tipo, cuestionarios son herramientas que se pueden utilizar para asesar la interaccin dinmica que existe entre la gente y su uso de plantas. 
27807237|A quantitative ethnobotanical study was conducted in Indigenous Territory and National Park Isiboro-Scure (TIPNIS), Bolivia, to assess the usefulness assigned by local Yuracar and Trinitario ethnic groups to different terra firme and floodplain forests. Furthermore, we investigated which variables are good predictors for the use value attributed to plant species in the research area. Plants were collected during transect, walk-in-the-woods and homegarden sampling. Ethnobotanical and ethnoecological data of the inventoried plants were obtained from 12 Yuracar and 14 Trinitario participants through semistructured interviews. On average, 84% of species in transects were claimed to be useful to people. The understorey (2.5 cmdbh <10 cm) of the sampled forest types contained more useful species than the overstorey (dbh 10 cm), particularly for species with a medicinal and/or social use function. The local use value of plant species can be predicted, in part, from their botanical family, growth form, density, frequency, mean and maximum dbh, and ecological importance value. Our data confirm the hypothesis that density and frequency of plants in the landscape are both related to perceived plant accessibility. Accessibility of plants partly seems to guide their usefulness in TIPNIS. Indigenous assessment of accessibility and abundance of plants also covaried with their perceived usefulness and therefore has a potential for uncovering patterns in the perceived utility of plants.
4287966|Use of fermentation products in beverages, foods, feeds and pharmaceuticals is growing steadily, but fermentation production of industrial alcohol, butanol and acetone faces stiff competition from synthetic petrochemicals. In looking to the future of fermentation and its utilization of agricultural commodities, additional experimental approaches should be used in the search for new products, particularly the more complex ones such as antibiotics, enzymes, and vitamins, which in general have resisted economic chemical synthesis.
4254111|Kudzu was introduced to the southern United States in the 1930s to help restore the soil and reduce erosion. However, since it is a legume with an extensive root structure and without natural enemies in the United States, it has adapted to the land too successfully. States like Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi are now invaded by kudzu which, at the present time, has no commercial outlet. It is suggested in this paper that the plant be considered for several uses: the root starch as a source of carbohydrate and as a medium for yeast and ethanol production; the fiber for use in paper, in grass wallpaper, and in textiles and clothing; and the leaves for a high protein animal fodder. Preliminary experiments indicate that the root provides a vitamin enriched source of starch for ethanol and yeast fermentations. The vine can also be processed to expose the desired high tensile strength fiber for apparel use. A process is also proposed for removing the low concentration ethanol from a fermentation solution, which requires only a small fraction of the external energy required for the conventional distillation process.
4253036| Horseradish (Armoracia rusticana Gaertn., Mey. & Scherb.) is a hardy perennial of the Cruciferae. The plant is thought to be indigenous to temperate eastern Europe and probably has been in cultivation for less than 2,000 years. The ancient writers, Dioscorides of Greece and Pliny of Rome, listed horseradish under Thlaspi or Persicon; the early Renaissance herbalists, as Mattioli and Gerard, under Raphanus; Linnaeus under the genus Cochlearia; today's taxonomists under the genus Armoracia. The English word horseradish apparently comes from the German word meerettich or 'sea-radish'; meer (sea) was probably taken by the English to mean mhre, an old horse. At least two distinct leaf-types of horseradish were known in the 16th Century, and these are present in cultivars grown today. Horseradish may be an interspecific hybrid. Various workers have reported sterility, partial pairing of chromosomes, different chromosome counts in different specimens, and embryo abortion. Viable seed, however, can be produced. Most of the commercial production in the United States is located in the Mississippi River Valley around St. Louis and on muck land near Eau Claire, Wisconsin. The roots were employed for medicine by ancient and medieval people as a preventative or cure for many ills; but today it is used mainly as a condiment on meats and seafoods. 
4256927|The Euphorbiaceae is an extensive family of plants that includes about 300 genera and 5000 species and is mainly distributed in tropical areas. For a long time this family has been recognized and reported for its anti-cancer components, anti-hepatitis B components and carcinogenic factors. In the literature of ancient traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), 33 species of plants from 17 genera of Euphorbiaceae have been mentioned as medicines. We report here the results of our recent investigation. The locations under investigation were in Guangdong Province, Guangxi Zhuang Nationality Autonomous Region and Hainan Province in southeastern China. There were 111 species within 35 genera of medicinal Euphorbiaceous plants reported, along with their folk usages. Among them, 17 species are used to treat snakebites. It was observed that most of the species within the Euphorbiaceae family contained toxic components. In fact, only a few species are employed as widespread medicines throughout China-most species are recognized only as local minority tribe medicines.
4256322| Based on literature analysis of 308 angiosperm species inventoried from a 50-hectare forest plot on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, 40 species were selected and 80 samples (two samples for every species; leaf + twig and stembark samples) were collected for investigation of their medicinal/pharmaceutical potential. Extracts of these 80 samples were tested in bioassay systems to assess cancer chemoprevention (eight assays), antiplasmodial, cytotoxicity, and anti-HIV activities. Details of bioassay techniques are described. Of the 40 species, 12 (30%) showed activity in one or more of the 11 bioassay systems used. These active species are Bombacopsis (= Pachira) quinata, Calophyllum longifolium, Casearia commersoniana, Lozania pittieri, Maclura tinctoria, Mouriri myrtilloides, Olmedia aspera (= Trophis caucana), Pseudobombax septenatum, Spondias radlkoferi, Stylogyne standleyi, Turpinia occidentalis, and Vochysia ferruginea. Because literature data on the chemistry of Bombacopsis (= Pachira) quinata, Lozania pittieri, Mouriri myrtilloides, Olmedia aspera (= Trophis caucana), Pseudobombax septenatum, and Stylogyne standleyi, are lacking, and similar data on the other six species are deficient, further fractionation and isolation work on these active species potentially may yield novel, biologically active structures. This study demonstrates that a plot-based selection of plant species for evaluation of their potential medicinal/pharmaceutical value has merit in achieving such a goal, and should be used in a program on plant drug discovery. /// A base de anlisis de 308 especies de angiospermas inventariadas de una parcela de 50 hectreas de un bosque en la Isla de Barro Colorado, Panama, 40 especies fueron seleccionadas y 80 muestras (hojas+ramitas y corteza de tallo, de cada especie) fueron coleccionadas para la investigacin hacia su potencial medicinal/farmacetico. Los extractos de estas 80 muestras fueron suministrados a bioensayos para detectar sus actividades en la prevencin de cancer (8 tipos de ensayos), antipaldica, citotoxicidad, y anti-HIV. Los detalles de los mtodos de bioensayos se presentan. De las 40 especies, 12 (30%) demostraron actividad en uno o ms de los 11 bioensayos empleados. Estas especies son Bombacopsis (= Pachira) quinata, Calophyllum longifolium, Casearia commersoniana, Lozania pittieri, Maclura tinctoria, Mouriri myrtilloides, Olmedia aspera (= Trophis caucana), Pseudobombax septenatum, Spondias radlkoferi, Stylogyne standleyi, Turpinia occidentalis, y Vochysia ferruginea. En vista de que Bombacopsis (= Pachira) quinata, Lozania pittieri, Mouriri myrtilloides, Olmedia aspera (= Trophis caucana), Pseudobombax septenatum, y Stylogyne standleyi, carecen de datos qumicos de la literatura, mientras que datos qumicos sobre las otras seis especies son deficientes, un trabajo de fraccionamiento y aislamiento sobre estas especies potencialmente nos pueda dar compuestos novedosos, biologicamente activos. Este estudio demuestra que el mtodo de seleccin de especies de plantas a partir de especies inventariadas de una parcela de bosque, para someterlas a pruebas biolgicas, tiene sus mritos para empleo ms amplio. 
41408259|Leaves and seeds of Chamaedorea (xate) palms are important non-timber forest products (NTFPs). In the Calakmul region (Yucatan Peninsula) of Mexico, several communities have sporadically collected and sold seeds of G seifrizii since 1980. However, harvesting has intensified recently, raising concerns about overexploitation. To evaluate the economic potential of leaf and seed exploitation in the area, we collected information on abundance, population patterns, and leaf and seed stocks in Ejido Conhuas, a community within the Calakmul Biosphere Reserve (CBR). Then we combined these data with current market values and hypothetical management regimes obtained from the literature for leaves and seeds. Conducting a quantitative analysis of 43 0.1 ha plots with differences in forest and soil type, we assessed the abundance of C. seifrizzi in the area. We also conducted interviews to estimate the importance of xate in the local economy. We found G seifrizii density to be highly variable, with a mean ( SE) of 295 ( 35), with forest type being the most influential factor. Population structures differ between forest types, with healthy populations in medium and lower forest. We found a mean density of leaves of harvestable size of 3,750 ( 380) leaves ha" 1 , while seed production was 1.5 ( 0.3) kg/ha" 1 of fresh seeds. Assuming sustainable harvest rates of 30-50% for leaves and 80% for seeds, one hectare of forest could generate USD 7.0-15.9/ha" 1. Considering the number of households (102) and 10% of the total area managed each year (5,700 ha), this harvest could generate a household income of USD 391-838 annually. At the moment, xate trade represents a minor component in the economy of the community, but given the area's extensive forest (> 57,000 ha), the resource abundance, and the low human population, we believe the NTFPs derived from C. seifrizii have a potentially great economic impact in the area. Las hojas y frutos de las palmas Chamaedorea (xate) representan un importante producto forestal no maderable. En la region de Calakmul, varias comunidades han recolectado y vendido espordicamente semillas de C. seifrizii. Sin embargo, la cosecha se ha intensificado y hay preocupaciones de sobreexplotacin. Para evaluar el potencial de la cosecha de hojas y semillas en la regin de Calakmul realizamos una investigacin de abundancia y de su potencial econmico en el Ejido Conhuas, una comunidad dentro de la Reserva de la Biosfera Calakmul. Evaluamos la abundancia de C. seifrizii en 43 sitios de 0.1 ha con diferencias en tipos de bosque y de suelo. Encontramos que la densidad de C. seifrizii es muy variable con una media ( ES) de 295 ( 35), siendo el tipo de bosque el factor mas importante. La estructura de la poblacin difiere entre tipos de bosques con las mejores poblaciones en selva mediana y baja. Las hojas cosechables fueron muy abudantes con una media de 3,750 ( 380) leaves ha" 1 , mientras que la produccin de frutos fue de 1.5 ( 0.3) kg/ha de fruto fresco. Asumiendo 30%-50% hojas of leaves and 80% de frutos como mximo de cosecha sustentable, la extraccin de C. seifrizii generara USD 7.0-15.9/ha. Considerando un nmero de familias (102) y el manejo de un 10% del rea total de la comunidad (5,700 has), la cosecha de xate podra generar un ingreso annual de USD 391-838 anuales. Creemos que C. seifrizii representa un PFNM con un gran potencial econmico.
4252149|The emblic is native to tropical southeastern Asia where the fruit is esteemed both fresh and preserved. It is valued as an antiscorbutic and for treating digestive and other disorders. Since the emblic has a highly stable ascorbic acid content, it is considered effective even when dried, powdered, or prepared in the form of candies or tablets. Scientific and industrial institutions in India are developing new products and improved methods of processing this fruit; while Indian horticulturists are active in the propagation of superior varieties. Long neglected in the western hemisphere, the emblic merits further investigation.
4255363| The biosynthesis of nitro compounds and their esterification to glucose moieties are rare phenomena in the plant kingdom. Crownvetch (C. varia, Fabaceae) has not only these special biosynthetic capabilities, but also a nitro compound degrading system of interest to the energetic materials utilizing sectors. In this study we extend the observations on 3-nitropropionic acid content in crownvetch to pods and seedling tissues. The seedlings are recommended as preferred sources of enzymes capable of synthesis, and the mature plant tissues for degrading enzymes. /// La bosintesis de compuestos nitros y su esterificacin a glucosa son fenmenos infrecuentes en el reino de las plantas. C. varia, Fabaceae, no slo tiene estas capacidades biosnteticas, sino que tambien tiene un sistema de degradacin de compuestos nitros que son de interes para los que utilizan materiales energticos. En este estudio extendemos las observaciones sobre el contenido de cido 3-nitropropionico en C. varia a los pericarpios y a las siembras. Recomendamos las siembras como fuentes de enzimas capaces de sntesis, y los tejidos de las matas maduras para las enzimas capaces de degradacin. 
4252960|Cultivated food plant stocks were brought to Hawaii by the immigrating Polynesians and composed most of their basic diet. Extensive use, however, was made of the highly endemic (95% for flowering plants and 67% for ferns) flora. The Hawaiian was both a proficient agriculturist and naturalist. Nearly all of the vascular plant genera were given vernacular names, as well as many species and varieties. Twenty-five genera and over 85 species of vascular plants were used as food sources. These included fern auricles, pith, young fronds, and rhizomes; flowering plant roots (both aerial and underground), tubers, stems, young plants, young shoots, leaves, male flower bracts, fruits, and seeds. Six genera and 55 species of vascular plants were prepared for beverage purposes. These plants are listed in a table, with the following information provided: family, scientific name, common names, species distribution (island, altitude, occurrence, and habit), and plant part utilized. Lists of vernacular names and plant part sources are also included. Succeeding papers will cover other aspects (introduced food and beverage plants, and native and introduced plants used for ceremonies, cultural artifacts, decorations, dye, fiber, etc.).
4251938|The application of breeding technique to improving watermelons has been directed toward obtaining disease-resistant varieties and not toward improving other qualities.
4256707|As upland farmers in Southeast Asia change from shifting cultivation to permanent agriculture and lose access to swidden-fallow forests and their resources, they are introducing economically important forest and fallow plants into their house gardens. We describe this process in Daka, a village of Hani ethnicity in Yunnan Province, China. Daka smallholders collect both seeds and seedlings from fallow forests and transfer the plants to house gardens, initiating the transformation of wild species to a cultivated or semi-domesticated one. Two kinds of species are commonly transferred from swidden fallows to house gardens. Some are particularly rare, others are plants in great demand. Between 1998 and 2000 Daka households earned an average of US$68.20 annually from the products of fallow forests. We also found that villagers harvest and use 76 plant species from fallow forests and 126 species from house gardens. Twenty-two species found in house gardens that had been transferred from fallow forests. Households vary widely in the frequency with which they engage in this pattern. We believe that local knowledge of these practices is a potentially important resource in the development of other areas of smallholder farming.
40390389|T'ef (Eragrostis tef) has been cultivated in the Horn of Africa for at least 2,000 years. The earliest known agricultural systems in this region date to the Pre-Aksumite period (800-400 B.C.) and appear to have focused on Near Eastern crops, with indigenous African species increasing in importance during Aksumite times (400 B.C.-A.D. 700). While palaeoethnobotanical data are available from Pre-Aksumite and late Aksumite periods, macroscopic botanical remains from the site of Ona Nagast, northern Ethiopia, provide a first glimpse of agricultural systems dating to Proto-Aksumite (400-50 B.C.), Early to Classic (50 B.C.-A.D. 340), and Post-Aksumite (A.D. 700-900) times. Archaeological t'ef remains from Ona Nagast are examined in detail. Guidelines are developed for the identification of t'ef grains preserved on archaeological sites, with a focus on how to differentiate them from seeds of wild Eragrostis species. Charring experiments reveal that in some cases t'ef may not survive high temperatures tolerated by larger cereal grains, such as wheat and barley. The domestication history of t'ef appears to be different from some other cereals, a factor which may explain the preponderance of indeterminate Eragrostis seeds in archaeological samples. Selection of large seed size and intensified tillage were not key factors in t'ef domestication. Early cultivators were likely selecting for increased branching and higher percentage seed set under conditions of minimal tillage.
4251929|While commercial utilization of the desert flora in the American Southwest is still scarcely begun, there are possibilities of obtaining stock feed, alcohol, paper pulp, sugars, starches, resins, gums, alkaloids, oils and other extractives from the xerophytic plants of the region.
4252065|Once an important food for many Indian tribes in the Northwest Territory, wild rice is still used by the remaining Chippewas, and more than one million pounds of it are gathered annually in Manitoba and Minnesota as a commercial enterprise for modern culinary use in Canada and the United States.
4256735| Oleoresin extracted from copaba (Copaifera spp.: Leguminosae) trees is a popular traditional medicine in Amaznia. I studied production ecology from three copaba types in the eastern Brazilian Amazon. Mean oleoresin yield from the first harvest was 0.07 liters per tree for all trees drilled and 0.23 liters per tree for ones yielding some oleoresin. Yields were comparable to C. multijuga results in central Amaznia but lower than anecdotal reports of 2 liters or more per tree. Yield differences were minor between tree types and seasons. Yield peaked in mid-size trees (45-65 cm DBH) while small (<45 cm DBH), very large (>65 cm DBH), and hollow trees (due to senescence or fire) yielded negligible amounts. Oleoresin was harvested almost exclusively from inner heartwood, indicating that factors stimulating its synthesis in cambium are probably distinct from factors that promote its storage in heartwood and loss of yield many years later. 
4287979|Yeasts are of immense importance industrially to mankind. Their activities are the bases of several primary industries and contribute to the support of many others. Revenues obtained from the sale of alcoholic beverages produced by yeasts in the United States amount to over four billion dollars annually.
4251892|Its stem and foliage furnish building material and thatching for the native, and the milk of its fruit gives him nourishment, while the meat of the fruit provides an edible delicacy and industrially important coconut oil for man in the Temperate Zones.
4287939|The value of the U. S. Department of Agriculture's Plant Introduction Program, and some examples of introductions of new varieties for increased yield, disease, and insect resistance are discussed.
4287886|Veratrum plants and seeds have winter dormancy which is relieved by cold. The germination behavior, storage life of seeds, requirements for nursery culture and possibilities of vegetative propagation are described in this article-also the habits of several species in the wild.
4256638|Conservation of crop genetic resources is now considered an important component of sustainable agricultural development. If conservation of genetic resources for agriculture is to be successful, a more complete understanding of the dynamics affecting traditional (landrace) crop populations is needed. We conducted a study of maize-based agriculture in the Central Highlands of Mexico in communities at 2400, 1700, 1400, and 1200 masl to assess the status of traditional varieties in an area characterized by thorough integration into the national economy. Our research contradicts the view that modern varieties persist because of marginal conditions, deficient infrastructure, weaker markets, or traditional attitudes. One or two landraces dominated highland maize populations and farmers appeared to be more conservative in terms of their emphasis on traditional maize varieties than at lower elevations. The dominance of traditional varieties in the highlands is well known but poorly explained, and the coexistence of traditional and modern varieties in the mid-elevations was unexpected. Our highland study area has good roads, is near Mexico City, and is less than 50 km away from four major crop research institutes that have done maize breeding since 1950's. We suggest that in situ conservation of maize genetic resources in the highlands is sustained because the landraces there have good agronomic performance and are highly valued by farmers for their end-use qualities. At the mid-elevations, competition between local and modern maize was sharpest, and farmers have found that both landraces and improved varieties suit their needs, hence enhancing genetic diversity. Interventions and incentives would appropriately be carried out here to assure in situ conservation of locally adapted landraces of maize.
4256832| The genetic diversity of P. lunatus in the Yucatan Peninsula was assessed on the basis of its morphological and phenological characters. Our results were then discussed in relation to ethnobotanic information obtained about the intraspecific diversity recognized by farmers, their selection criteria, agronomic management, production purpose and percentage of cultivated area. Research was undertaken in one of the cultural subareas of Mesoamerica, the Lowland Maya area, where traditional agriculture has been more persistent and where high diversity of P. lunatus landraces has been recorded. Four of the 13 cultural-geographic zones established for the origin of this culture were included, 160 farmers from 12 localities were interviewed, and 149 seed samples of P. lunatus germplasm were collected and analyzed using six characters. A subset of these samples was grown under ex situ uniform growth conditions and analyzed using 28 characters. Ethnobotanical and morpho-phenological data indicated 30 putative distinct landraces, two wild, and two weedy variants, suggesting gene flow among them. Richness and diversity estimates were greatest, and evenness lowest, where there was: 1) minimal agricultural intensification, 2) wild and weedy populations, and 3) greater persistence of traditional culture. Results underscored the importance of establishing in situ conservation programs in these areas. /// Se estim la diversidad gentica de P. lunatus en la Pennsula de Yucatn con base en caracteres fenolgicos y morfolgicos, y se discute en relacin a la informacin etnobotnica obtenida acerca de la diversidad intraespecfica reconocida por los campesinos, sus criterios de seleccin, su manejo agronmico, el destino de la produccin y el porcentaje de rea cultivada. La investigacin se llev a cabo en una de las subreas culturales de Mesoamrica en donde la agricultura tradicional ha sido ms persistente y en donde se ha reportado alta diversidad de cultivares de P. lunatus: las Tierras Bajas Mayas. Cuatro de las trece zonas geogrfico-culturales establecidas en el origen de esta civilizacin fueron includas, 160 campesinos de 12 localidades fueron entrevistados y 149 muestras de semilla del germoplasma de P. lunatus fueron analizadas con base en 6 caracteres. Un subconjunto de estas muestras se cultiv bajo condiciones homogneas de crecimiento ex situ y se analiz usando 28 caracteres. Los datos morfolgicos y etnobotnicos indicaron 30 cultivares putativos, dos variantes silvestres y dos arvenses, y sugiri flujo gnico entre ellas. La riqueza y la diversidad fue mayor, y el predominio menor, donde hubo: 1) menor intensificacin agrcola, 2) poblaciones silvestres y arvenses de P. lunatus, y 3) mayor persistencia de cultura tradicional. Los resultados resaltan la importancia de establecer programas de conservacin in situ en estas reas. 
4256027| We used Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers to examine patterns of relatedness among 29 pistachio (Pistacia vera L.) cultivars and accessions. These included 13 cultivars that we had previously described, and an additional 16 items from the USDA National Clonal Germplasm Repository/Davis comprising cultivars and land races originating further east of the cultivars described previously, and material from wild P. vera stands in or near the putative center of origin for pistachio in South Central Asia. The results show high levels of polymorphism in the species emphasizing the importance of preservation of the remaining wild stands of P. vera. Analyses support the concept that cultivars in use west of the Zagros-Caucasus ranges likely originate from a limited germplasm base. The newly examined cultivated material shows greater genetic diversity, consistent with the hypothesis that pistachio cultivation originated in or near South Central Asia. Results also indicate that for at least two cases, material identified differently in two collections are the same clones, thus illustrating the value of molecular marker techniques in describing and maintaining germplasm collections for clonally propagated species. /// En este trabajo se ha empleado la tcnica del ADN polimrfico amplificado al azar (RAPD) para examinar la similitud gentica entre 29 cultivares y accesiones de pistachero (Pistacia vera L.). Este material incluye 13 cultivares considerados en un trabajo anterior y 16 nuevas accesiones del Banco Nacional de Germoplasma Clonal del USDA en Davis que incluyen cultivares y razas locales de regiones ms orientales que las consideradas anteriormente as como material procedente de bosques naturales de P. vera situados en las proximidades del presunto centro de origen del pistachero. Los resultados obtenidos muestran un alto grado de polimorfismo, lo que indica la necesidad de conservar el germoplasma de P. vera todava existente en estado natural. Adems se confirma la hiptesis de que los cultivares procedentes del oeste de la zona Caucsica y del Zagros se originaron a partir de una base gentica limitada. El nuevo material estudiado muestra una mayor diversidad gentica lo que corrobora la idea de que el cultivo del pistachero se inici en Asia Central. Al menos en dos de los casos estudiados, el material identificado en dos colecciones diferentes como distintos genotipos, en realidad se trata del mismo clon, lo que demuestra la utilidad de los marcadores moleculares en la descripcin y mantenimiento de colecciones de germoplasma en especies de reproduccin vegetativa. 
4252590|Seeds from 300 species representing 139 genera in 31 plant families have been surveyed for water-soluble gum (mucilage). Four families, Leguminosae, Plantaginaceae, Cruciferae, and Convolvulaceae, have species the seeds of which contain more than 18% gum. The legumes were studied most intensively. Of 163 legume species in 45 genera, 36 contained more than 18% gum, and 54 contained 10 to 18%. Gums from 20 legumes have been analyzed for component sugars; these are all galactomannans. Their specific optical rotation increases regularly as the mannose content decreases. In the legume seed, gum often comprises most of the endosperm. These galactomannan gums can be separated by a milling process to provide commercial-grade gums useful for paper additives and for sizing, thickening, or stabilizing agents.
4287792|In addition to yuccas, creosote bush, prickly pear cactus, agaves and the wax-producing candelilla bush, all of which have already yielded to some commercial exploitation, scores of other plants listed in this article also grow in the region and contain industrial potentialities.
4253352|Ethrel accelerated the ripening of both immature and mature-green '2029' tomato fruits. The best concentrations and time of dipping used were 2500 to 10,000 ppm and 5 minutes, respectively. Addition of surfactants and DMSO did not markedly influence the effectivity of Ethrel. Ethrel-treated fruits harvested 21 and 28 days after fruit set ripened normally but 14 day old fruits did not.
4253980|A controlled cross between Cannabis sativa L. and C. ruderalis Janisch. gave progeny intermediate in both cannabinoid content and morphology. The progeny fell into two distinct populations, those whose tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) content was closer to the C. sativa parent (greater than 60% of total cannabinoids) and those whose THC content was closer to the C. ruderalis parent (less than 40% of total cannabinoids). The lower THC group was twice as frequent as the other group. Earliness of flowering, number of flowers, and height characteristics were intermediate between the parents.
4287930|Customary accreditation of 1730 as the year of introduction of date palms into Lower California is a literary invention. More acceptable evidence places the event in 1765 or thereabout.
4251870|Only four kinds of native nut-hazelnut, chinquapin and two acorns-and introduced American walnut, Persian walnut and European filbert constitute the sources of edible nuts in this region.
4287879|Contrary to most articles in this periodical, this one is not a study in economic botany but in agricultural economics. As such, it is concerned primarily with business factors and only incidentally with lemon products.
4255213| In two Nepalese villages it was found that 66 plant species were being used for medicinal purposes. Although the treatment of patients by the medicine man, or "jhankri," included extensive ritual elements, at least 17 of the species prescribed could be expected on pharmacological evidence to produce the therapeutic effects attributed to them. Some medicinal plants were also used as insecticides or piscicides. It was recognised in the villages that the use of these latter species as human food or animal fodder was limited by the presence of toxic constituents. /// 66 espces de plantes ont t trouves dans deux villages npaloises qui sont utilises pour l'application mdicale. Malgr que des soins mdicaux par le gurisseur, ou "jhankri," contenaient des lments dtaills rituels, au moins 17 espces prescrites ont t prsumes de produire des preuves pharmacologiques qui sont crdites  ces espces. Quelques plantes mdicales ont aussi t utilises comme insecticide ou piscicide. Dans les villages on fait attention que l'utilisation des espces dernires comme nourriture humaine ou fourrage pour des animaux est limite  cause de la prsence des composantes toxiques. 
4255315|This paper deals with the plant folk medicines among Nicobarese aboriginals of Katchal Island, in the Nicobar group, India. The tribals, living in complete geographical isolation, have been using folk medicines from time immemorial. Data on 65 plant species were gathered from experienced old men and women. Therapeutic applications and manner of using are initially documented and described as plant remedies in folkloric tradition and popular domestic medicine. No chemical principles are identified; no putative herbal remedies are pharmaceutically and medically evaluated. A brief account of the geography of the islands, climate, ethnology, and methodology of the present work is given. Vernacular name(s) of the plants in the Nicobarese language are incorporated for the first time in literature.
4257062| Botnicas, or herbal shops that cater to ethnic populations, are common in culturally diverse southern Florida. One of the most frequently found plants in these botnicas is Pluchea carolinensis. This small shrub in the Asteraceae is a common species in disturbed sites in the region, especially in back mangrove habitats. The binomial P. symphytifolia has been misapplied to P. carolinensis and is considered a synonym for Neurolaena lobata. Both species have similar uses and common names. Pluchea carolinensis is called salvia in Latino botnicas and la choige in Haitian botnicas in Miami. Interviewees at 17 herbal shops provided information on the uses of the plant. The most frequently mentioned ailments treated with P. carolinensis were sore throats and catarrh. The plant also is employed to alleviate headaches, stomach ailments, flatulence, high blood pressure, rash, toothaches, and it is considered to be an antiseptic, anticoagulant, and anti-inflammatory. Teas and compresses were the most common mode of preparation. The medicinal uses of P. carolinensis in southern Florida are similar to those reported elsewhere in the Caribbean and similar to the uses of other Pluchea species. The plant also plays a role in limpiezas or spiritual cleansings and is associated with the Santera deity Babal Ay. /// Las botnicas, tiendas herbarias que proveen plantas medicinales y ritualistas, son comunes en la poblacin culturalmente diversa de Florida del sur. Una de las plantas el ms con frecuencia encontradas en estos botnicas es Pluchea carolinensis. Este pequeo arbusto en el Asteraceae es una especie comn con sitios desequilibrados en la regin, especialamente cerca de manglares. El binomio P. symphytifolia ha sido aplicado mal a P. carolinensis y es considerado un sinnimo para Neurolaena lobata. Ambas especies tienen usos y nombres vulgares similares. Pluchea carolinensis se llaman salvia en las botnicas Latina y la choige en las botnicas haitianas en Miami. Los entrevistados en diecisiete tiendas herbarias nos dieron informacin sobre los usos de la planta. Las dolencias el ms con frecuencia mencionadas trataron con P. carolinensis eran dolores de garganta y catarro. La planta tambin es empleada para aliviar dolores de cabeza, dolor de estmago, flatulencia, sangre alta, sarpullido, dolores de muelas, y, como se considera es un antisptico, anticoagulante, y antiinflamatorio. Los ts y las compresas eran el modo ms comn de la preparacin. Los usos medicinales de P. carolinensis en Florida del sur son similares a aquellos relatados en otra parte en el caribeo y similar a los usos de otras especies de Pluchea. La planta tambin desempea un papel en limpiezas espirituales y se asocia con la deidad Santera Babal Ay. 
4251988|Fibres from palm leaf-bases of the tropics clean our streets and fibres from agave plants of Mexico clean our clothes, while fibres from a variety of other plants enter into the manufacture of a variety of brushes for specialized industrial uses.
4256022| This paper pursues the lead of Bart K. Holland in utilizing classic literature as a guide to the pharmacologic potentialities of natural products. Instead of focusing on European texts, however, American medicinal plants are examined through the work of the influential naturalist Constantine S. Rafinesque (1783-1840). Rafinesque is discussed with special attention to his activities as a medical botanist. In particular, the plant species monographed in the main section of his Medical Flora of the United States (1828-1830) are studied for their historical and current use as medicinal agents. The results are tabulated and presented in a bar graph. The study concludes that Rafinesque was a progressive therapist whose Medical Flora is a promising guide for phytopharmacuetical prospecting with North American plants. /// Dieses Referat folgt dem Beispiel von Bart K. Holland, indem es die klassische Literatur als Anhaltspunkt zu den pharmakologischen Mglichkeiten von natrlichen Produkte mutzt. Statt sich auf europische Texte zu konzentrieren, werden amerikanische medizinische Planzen durch die Arbeiten von dem einflureichen Naturforscher Constantine S. Rafinesque (1783-1840) untersucht. Rafinesque wird mit besonderer Aufmerksamkeit auf seine Ttigkeiten als medizinischer Botaniker besprochen. Insbesondere, die Einzeldarstellung der Pflanzenspezies, die im Hauptabschnitt seines Buches Medical Flora ist, wird wegen ihres historischen und aktuellen Nutzen als medizinisches Mittel studiert. Die Ergebnisse sind tabellarisch angeordnet und graphisch dargestellt. Die Studie kommt zu dem Schlu, da Rafinesque ein progressiver Therapeut war, dessen Medical Flora ein vielversprechender Fhrer fr phytopharmazeutische Untersuchungen von nordamerikanischen Pflanzen ist. 
4255852| This study records 81 species of medicinal plants used in San Andrs, Petn. The primary source of information was an elderly Maya-speaking couple employed as traditional healers. Voucher specimens were collected, the majority from surrounding secondary forest; local names, medicinal uses, growth form, and habitat were noted. The plant families providing most species were Asteraceae and Rubiaceae. A lack of apprentices threaten continuation of this tradition in the community. /// Este estudio presenta informacin sobre 81 especies de plantas medicinales utilizadas en San Andrs, Petn. La principal fuente de informacin fue una pareja maya-parlante con muchos aos de prctica como curanderos tradicionales en esta regin. La mayora de los especmenes fueron colectados en los bosques secundarios que rodean el poblado, a los que se les adicion la descripcin correspondiente en cuanto a nombres locales, usos medicinales, formas de crecimiento y habitats. La mayora de los especmenes colectados pertenecen a las familias de la Asteraceae y Ia Rubiaceae. Este trabajo tambin provee evidencia de que la falta de aprendces atentan contra la continuacin de estas tradiciones. 
4256023| Boletus edulis sensu lato (penny bun mushroom, cep, cpe de Bordeaux, porcino, Steinpilz) is a complex of at least five species (or sub-species) of mycorrhizal fungi which grow primarily with hosts in Fagaceae, Pinaceae, and Betulaceae. They occur in a wide variety of habitats throughout the Northern Hemisphere and have been accidentally introduced into South Africa and New Zealand. The fruiting bodies have a very strong flavor and are widely used both commercially and domestically, particularly in Europe and North America. The vegetation, climate, and soils where B. edulis grows and methods that have been used in unsuccessful attempts to cultivate it are described. /// Boletus edulis sensu lato (champin, penny bun mushroom, cep, cpe de Bordeaux, porcino, Steinpilz) es un complejo de por lo menos cinco especies (o subespecies) de hongos micorrzicos que se cran principalmente sobre hospedadores en las familias Fagaceae, Pinaceae y Betulaceae. Se encuentran en una gran variedad de hbitats a travs del Hemisferio Norte y han sido accidentalmente introducidos a Sud Africa y Nueva Zelandia. Los cuerpos fructferos tienen un sabor muy fuerte y son ampliamente utilizados tanto comercial como domsticamente, particularmente en Europa y Norte Amrica. Se describen la vegetacin, clima y suelos donde crece B. edulis y los mtodos utilizados en intentos fallidos para cultivarlo. 
4256925|This study examines the adaptation and evolution of the Hawaiian ethnopharmacopoeia looking specifically at the inclusion of recently introduced plants in the pharmacopoeia as recorded within ethnobotanical studies from 1838-2002. Generally, the number of native plants (both indigenous and endemic) recorded in ethnobotanical studies decreases over time, while the number of recently introduced plant increases. This study lists the recently introduced plants, the date they were first recorded as part of the ethnopharmacopoeia, and their place of origin. It also discusses some of the possible factors influencing the inclusion of new plants in the Hawaiian medical tradition, building on and adding to the current work on the origin of Polynesian herbal medicine.
4255429| The Mussau Islanders of the Bismarck Archipelago in northeastern Papua New Guinea cultivate 26 indigenous tree species both for food and non-food uses in tree gardens surrounding the villages. Several trees which volunteer in these arboriculture zones are also tended and encouraged. I present ethnobotanical information on methods of cultivation, how and when the trees are harvested, preparation and use. The tree crop zone has a random spatial distribution overall, but some species within the zone are aggregated spatially. This clumping is related to the restricted habitat requirements of certain species, as well as individual species' reproductive traits. Coconut is the most frequent species in the arboriculture zone and is randomly distributed. Vertical stratification is attributable to the presence of a distinct herb layer and a subcanopy stratum of mature Pandanus spp. The stratification of some species pairs results from the deliberate planting of subcanopy trees next to canopy trees. The introduction of exotic garden species and the increasing availability of western packaged foods is changing the composition of traditional Mussau Islands tree gardens. /// Los isleos Mussau del archipilago Bismarck en el noreste de Papu Nueva Guinea cultivan 26 especies de rboles nativos para alimento y otros usos en los alrededores de los poblados. Algunos rboles que incidentalmente se establecen en estas zonas tambin son protegidos y cultivados. En este artculo se presenta informacin etnobotnico sobre mtodos de cosecha, y preparacin y uso de los rboles. La zona de cosecha de rboles en general tiene una distribucin espacial al azar, pero algunas especies estn espacialente agregadas dentro de la zona. Esta agregacin est relacionada tanto a los requerimientos estrictos de hbitat como a las caractersticas reproductivas de determinadas especies. La palma de coco es la especie mas frecuente en la zona del cultivo de rboles y se distribuye al azar. La estratificacin vertical se debe a la presencia de una capa caracterstica de hierbas y a un estrato de subdosel de Panadanus spp. maduros. La estratificacin de ciertos pares de especies es el resultado de la plantacin deliberada de rboles del subdosel, cerca de rboles de dosel. La introduccin de especies exticas de jardn y la generalizada disponibilidad de alimentos occidentales empacados estn modificando la composicin de los cultivos de rboles de las islas Mussau. 
4255721|Previous estimates of the potential value of higher plants in tropical forests for pharmaceuticals are too high because analysts mistakenly used gross revenues to value drugs instead of net revenues. Correcting this error, we estimate each new drug is worth an average $94 million to a private drug company and $449 million to society as a whole. Given recent experience searching for new drugs, we estimate that the higher plants in the world's tropical forests contain about 375 potential pharmaceuticals of which 48 (about one in eight) have already been discovered. Multiplying these values by the number of potential new drugs suggests that a complete collection and screening of all tropical plant species should be worth about $3-4 billion to a private pharmaceutical company and as much as $147 billion to society as a whole.
4254503| Phenotypic variation in calorific value among melaleuca samples from natural stands in South Florida is described. One hundred trees were selected from ten 5 m  5 m test plots distributed evenly in 2 geographic areas-Lee County and Dade County. In general, no geographic changes in calorific value, for either wood and bark, were evident. Differences among the plot averages were significant. Both calorific values of wood and bark fluctuated greatly among trees within plots. The calorific value did not seem to relate with the size of tree. Implications for tree improvement are discussed. 
4254846| There is botanical and textual evidence for sesame cultivation in the ancient Old World. Excavations at the Indus civilization site of Harappa have yielded charred sesame from a stratum attributed to 3050-3500 B.C. The Vedic scriptures (ca. 1000 B.C.) contain frequent references to sesame. The existence and identity of Sesamum indicum as a Mesopotamian oil source have been controversial since 1966, when H. Helbaek reported that not a single seed of sesame had been found in the Near East from earlier than Islamic times. The Chicago Assyrian Dictionary and some cuneiformists subsequently have translated e-gi- as "linseed" (=flax, genus Linum, named by Linneaus). Helbaek's assertion that no ancient sesame remains have been excavated is inaccurate, but the reported finds (Karmir Blur in Armenia, [ancient Urartu], ca. 600 B.C.; Hajar Bin Humeid in South Arabia, ca. 450 B.C.) are late. Sesame was a major item of agriculture in the Urartian economy and that kingdom was a northern neighbor of Mesopotamia. In the fifth century, B.C., Herodotus wrote that sesame was the only oil used in Babylonia. The crop was well known to ancient Greek and Roman authors. Records of sesame in Egypt and China are late (ca. 3rd c. B.C.). New evidence suggests that the Mesopotamian oil plant e-gi- is sesame, and that the crop and one name for its oil, ellu, were introduced from India. A cuneiform text indicates that the barley harvest [in spring] was followed by the sowing of e-gi-, a summer crop in Mesopotamia. Sesame can be distinguished clearly from flax, a cool-season crop, and their growing seasons differ as would be expected. 
4287890|True paper, in the technical sense of the term, was first made in China in 105 A.D. from the bast fibers of paper mulberry and probably also from bamboo. For many centuries old rags, principally cotton or linen, supplied the papermakers with raw material. In modern times, sprucewood fibers have long been outstanding for papermaking. In recent decades, however, the spruces have been equalled, if not surpassed, in tonnage used, by various species of pine, especially the southern yellow pines. Of secondary importance have been the fibers of dozens of other species.
4287943|Fermented rice, or "Sierra rice", of Ecuador, is distributed and consumed exclusively in the Andean Sierra. Fermenting precooks the rice, thus reducing the cooking time in the Andean Highlands. "Sierra rice" is the only type used in preparation of "dry rice", which is considered indispensable to all meals.
4255118| Marama bean (Tylosema esculentum, Fabaceae), a potential arid-land legume crop from the Kalahari Desert of Botswana, was analyzed for protein, amino acids, oil, fatty acids, fiber, caloric value, trypsin inhibitor, and mineral content. Results indicate that the bean is adequate in these nutrients for a human diet, but the trypsin inhibitor activity should be destroyed prior to consumption. /// Die Marama Bohne ist potentiell ein Legumen aus der Kalahari Wste fr Ernten in den Lndern. Es wurde nach Proteinen, Aminosuren, l, Fettsuren, Fasern, Heizwert, Trypsin Hemmungstoffen, und anorganischem Gehalt analysiert. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass die Bohne adquat ist fr menschliche Ernhrung in diesen Nhrstoffen, aber das die Trypsin hemmende Aktivitt sollte vor dem Verzehrt zerstrt. 
4254133|Hybridization between the wild Manihot species, anomala Pohl, M. oligantha Pax emend. Nassar subsp. nesteli, M. gracilis Pax and M. zehntneri Ule, and cassava have been tried. Seeds were obtained from all hybrids. Moreover, crosses of M. oligantha subsp. nesteli and cassava were highly fertile.
4257084| Although roots and tubers are dietary staples in many parts of the world, their use is difficult to document archaeologically because their organic remains are often poorly preserved in archaeological sediments. Here we describe the first diagnostic phytoliths from the underground storage organs of the important New World agricultural crops manioc or yuca (Manihot esculenta Crantz), arrowroot (Maranta arundinacea L.), and llern (Calathea allouia [Aubl.] Lindl.) and demonstrate their usefulness for identifying prehistoric root and tuber processing with a study of stone artifacts from a Valdivia 3 (2800-2400 B.C., calibrated) household at Real Alto, Ecuador. Gelatinized starch (heat-altered) and unaltered starch from maize (Zea mays L.), arrowroot, and manioc were also found on these stone tools. Our data document early evidence for manioc in Ecuador's coastal lowlands. In combination, these phytoliths and starch residues provide evidence that both raw and cooked foods were processed in this early mixed agricultural economy. 
4254156|A 3-year study was conducted on an existing, one-cell, facultative sewage lagoon having a total surface area of 3.6 ha and receiving a
4255883| Glutinous or waxy rice is the most important crop for subsistence farming economies in the hills of Northern Laos. Hill farmers continue to use traditional varieties only. Geographical and political isolation have contributed towards their preservation. Traditional varieties are mainly of the japonica type, have a good yield potential, are well adapted to the local conditions, and represent a wide genetic diversity. Farmers interviewed prefer varieties with large panicles, planted 2.7 varieties on average, with 17, 30 and 53% of the area planted to early, medium and late varieties, respectively. Out of 544 traditional cultivars 95% flowered within 88-120 days after planting. Crops planted together with rice in order of importance are: maize, cucumber, chili, taro, and sesame. Farmers reported annual milled rice production of 125 kg per capita and rice self-sufficiency for 8 months for 1992 and 1993. Maize, cassava, and products from the forest are major rice substitutes and food security in remote areas could best be improved by increasing production of maize and cassava in combination with livestock production systems. /// Le riz gluant est la culture la plus importante pour les systmes agricoles de subsistence des collines du Nord du Laos. Les paysans montagnards continuent de cultiver uniquement des varits traditionnelles qui sont prserves par l'isolation gographique et politique. La plupart des varits traditionnelles sont du type japonica avec de bons rendements potentiels, sont bien adaptes aux conditions locales, et prsentent un grande diversit gntique. Les paysans consults prferent les varits  grand panicule. Ils ont cultiv en moyenne 2.7 varits, et 17, 30, et 53% de la surface a t plante, respectivement avec des varits prcoces, intermdiaires, et tardives. Au moins 95% des 544 cultivars traditionnels ont fleuri entre 88 et 120 jours aprs la plantation. Les cultures plantes avec le riz sont par ordre d'importance: le mas, le concombre, le chili, le taro et le ssame. Les paysans ont enregistr une production annuelle de riz dcortiqu de 125 kg per capita ansi qu'une autosuffisance en riz pour 8 mois durant les annes 1992 et 1993. Les mas, le manioc et les aliments issus de la fort constituent les principaux produits de substitution du riz. La meilleure faon d'amliorer la scurit alimentaire des rgions recules serait de combiner une augmentation de la production de mas et de manioc avec des systmes de production animale. 
40390466|Matsutake are economically important wild mushrooms that contribute greatly to rural livelihoods and local economies in many parts of the northern hemisphere. This paper provides an overview of the matsutake trade in Yunnan province, China, where increased attention is being given to the sustainable utilization of nontimber forest products. Topics covered include the distribution, production, and export of matsutake in Yunnan, and the market chain for matsutake in Yunnan, whereby matsutake are harvested from the wild and exported to Japan within 48 hours.
4257019| Most studies of the genus Opuntia have focused on economically important species, and therefore more knowledge concerning the genetic diversity among wild and locally managed Opuntia species is needed for an expanded use of cacti in the future. The present study is part of ongoing ethnobotanical work in the Tehuacn-Cuicatln Valley of Mexico and focuses on six traditionally classified forms of Opuntia pilifera used as food by the indigenous Popoloca people in San Juan Atzingo. Traditional knowledge of how to distinguish these forms based on fruit flavor, color, size, and number of spines on the fruits and cladodes is preserved in the local community. Genetic fingerprinting with 129 AFLPs did not correlate with this traditional morphological classification of 67 cacti. Yet, these AFLPs distinguished the analyzed 67 Opuntia pilifera cacti easily from the out-group comprising 17 wild Opuntia velutina. /// La mayora de los estudios sobre gentica de poblaciones del gnero Opuntia (Cactaceae) se han enfocado en las especies econmicamente importantes, por lo que es necesario un mayor conocimiento de la diversidad gentica cuando se compara entre las especies silvestres y las especies cultivadas localmente, esto con el fin de ampliar a futuro el uso de las cactceas. El presente trabajo forma parte de un estudio etnobotnico ms amplio llevado a cabo en el Valle de Tehuacn-Cuicatln, Mxico, y se centra en seis formas tradicionales de clasificar a Opuntia pilifera, cactcea usada como alimento por los indgenas Popolocas de San Juan Atzingo. El mtodo tradicional para distinguir entre dichas formas es parte del conocimiento tradicional de la comunidad Popoloca y est basado en el sabor del fruto, el color, el tamao y en el nmero de espinas del fruto y de los cladodios. Las huellas genticas con 129 AFLPs no estn correlacionadas con la clasificacin morfolgica tradicional. No obstante, los AFLPs distinguieron fcilmente entre los 67 individuos de Opuntia pilifera y los 17 individuos silvestres de Opuntia velutina que conformaron al grupo externo. 
4256323| In this paper the validity of the homegardens in Catalonia is analyzed from data obtained in two ethnobotanical studies carried out in the districts (comarques) of Pallars Juss and Pallars Sobir (Pyrenees) and in the Montseny Massif (Catalan Prelittoral Range). We classified nine groups of plants by their uses and their situation in the homegarden. We centered our analysis on medicinal plants lato sensu (curative, palliative, symptomatic, prophylactic, used for diagnosis, placebos or with other health uses). More than 50% of the species used in these regions are in the homegardens, either expressly cultivated, wild, or indirectly favored by agricultural practices. If the whole range of human daily activity is considered (including the ruderal and weedy flora, and plants cultivated in fields and orchards) the proportion surpasses 80%. /// En el presente trabajo analizamos la vigencia actual de los huertos familiares en Catalua a partir de los datos que hemos obtenido en sendos estudios etnobotnicos llevados a cabo en las comarcas del Pallars Juss y Pallars Sobir (Pirineo) y el el macizo del Montseny (Cordillera Prelitoral Catalana). Para realizar nuestro anlisis de la estructura y el funcionamiento de los huertos familiares, hemos establecido nueve grupos de plantas segn su uso y su situacin en el espacio hortense. Centrndonos en las plantas medicinales en sentido amplio (curativas, paliativas, sintomticas, profilcticas, usadas para diagnstico, placebos o con algn otro tipo de uso sanitario), podemos afirmar que ms del 50% de las especies utilizadas en las regiones investigadas se hallan en los huertos, ya sea expresamente cultivadas, ya sea silvestres, favorecidas por el propio mbito hortense. Si consideramos todo el mbito de la cotidianidad humana (incluyendo la flora ruderal y la segetal, as como las plantas cultivadas en los campos y vergeles) la proporcin se eleva hasta superar el 80%. 
4252864| By relatively simple breeding procedures, seven different modifications of fruit and pedicel have been successfully transferred from wild tomatoes of the Galpagos Islands to large-fruited cultivars. Some of these traits, the majority of which are simply inherited, may have horticultural value. Such introgression from the wild forms is expedited by the remarkable freedom from barriers at any stage of the breeding processes. 
4254302|In this review, the toxic and antinutrient compounds biosynthesized by legumes used as forage crops in the United States are described under the categories alkaloids, amino acids, cyanogens, isoflavone and coumestan estrogenic principles, nitro compounds, protease inhibitors, phytohemagglutinins, saponins, selenium compounds and tannins. The legume-related livestock conditions, bloat, locoweed poisoning and photodermatitis are also discussed. Relevant veterinary, phytochemical and toxicological literature citations are presented.
41408238|Economic development in southwest China and the increasing use of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) worldwide have led to intensified collection of native medicinal plants. Fritillaria cirrhosa D. Don (Chuan Bei Mu), commonly used for the treatment of cough in TCM, is endemic to the Hengduan Mountain region of southwest China and is under increasing pressure from over-collection and decreasing suitable alpine habitat. The bioactive compounds in F. cirrhosa bulbs, isosteroidal alkaloids, are greatly influenced by environmental conditions and fluctuate in content and concentration with plant age and reproductive stage. Aiming at obtaining useful information for the sustainable management of wild F. cirrhosa populations, we evaluated how the phytochemical composition of F. cirrhosa bulbs varies at various stages of plant reproductive development. Using chemical methods and high-performance liquid chromatography, we extracted and analyzed two major bioactive alkaloids from F. cirrhosa bulb samples collected throughout the Hengduan Mountain region. Plant reproductive stage was found to affect the concentration of bioactive alkaloids in F. cirrhosa bulbs. Bulb alkaloid concentration was highest during the early stages of fruit development and decreased significantly with fruit maturation. These results lend biochemical support to the practice of harvesting F. cirrhosa during the early stages of plant senescence (i. e., early fruit development).  )11   )11         
4254543|The major oilseed crops were domesticated primarily as sources of edible oil. However, in all cases, yields of by-products are greater than the oil fraction, and, in reality, all oilseed crops serve dual purposes as sources of oil and of protein for human food, animal feed, and industrial products. Each crop has special requirements for extraction and for processing of oil and meal, and each has limitations as to location and timing of production and as to processibility in oil mills originally designed for other crops. Further, each oilseed has unique cultural, economic and utilization characteristics; for example, rapeseed (Brassica) can be grown in cool climates with short growing seasons. Cottonseed (Gossypium) is a by-product of the more valuable fiber crop, and its availability is dictated by the profitability of growing cotton for the world market. Although peanuts (Arachis hypogaea) are used primarily as peanut butter and nuts in the United States, they are almost exclusively pressed for oil in other countries. In this paper, cultural practices and processing requirements of soybean (Glycine max), cottonseed, sunflower (Helianthus annuus), rapeseed, peanut, and sesame (Sesamum indicum) oils and by-products are compared, as well as compositions of major oilmilling fractions, oils and proteins.
4252054|In the breeding work performed so far on this substitute for strategically important jute, several desirable features have been overlooked, the genetic factors for which may be hidden in the various wild strains of Africa.
4252097|Carnauba occupies a leading position among vegetable waxes because of its hardness, good luster and high melting point, which make it especially desirable for floor polishes. The only source region of this important vegetable wax is northeastern Brazil.
4256453|The wild edible plants form an important constituent of traditional diets in the Himalaya. In the Sikkim Himalaya a total of 190 species have been screened as edible species out of which nearly 47 species come to the market. The present paper deals with nutritive values of 27 most commonly consumed wild edible plants in the Sikkim Himalaya. Of 27 plant species that were analyzed for their nutritive values, 22 were edible for their fruits and five for leaves/shoots. Among different plant parts, generally higher nutrient concentration was recorded for leaves, followed by new shoots and fruits. For different species the crude fiber content ranged between 2.15-39.90%, and the total soluble salts between 4.66-21.0%, and the vitamin C content from 6-286 mg/100 g. The fat content was determined high in the fruits of Castanopsis species, Machilus edulis, and Cinnamomum species, while the protein content was highest in Hippophae rhamnoides, Cucumis melo, and Eleagnus latifolia. The total carbohydrate content ranged from 32-88% in the fruits of various wild edibles, the reducing sugar from 1.25-12.42%, total sugar from 2.10-25.09%, the lignin content varied from 9.05-39.51%, the hemicellulose between 25.63-55.71% and cellulose content varied from 9.57-33.19% in different species. Among the various macronutrients estimated in the plant samples of different wild edible species, nitrogen was present in highest quantity, followed by potassium, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, and sodium. Micronutrients, such as iron, zinc, magnesium, and copper contents were analyzed in different plant parts of various wild edible species. The iron content was higher in leaves and new shoots. The study shows that wild edible plants are good source of nutrient for rural population, and also well comparable with various commercial fruits. It is suggested that a few wild edible species need to be grown for commercial cultivation and adopted in the traditional agroforestry systems, which will lead to reduced pressure on them in natural forest stands as well as producing economic benefits for poor farmers.
4251849|China's most valuable gift to the Western World-the food of millions for centuries and an ingredient in modern adhesives, plastics, foaming solutions, spreaders, waxes, soaps, linoleum, paints and numerous other industrial products.
4253109|Previous investigations relative to cyanide content of peach pulp have been contradictory. Results of this study show that none of the pulp from two common varieties (Dixired and Elberta) gave a positive test for cyanide. Kernels from closed stones, or pits, and leaves showed a positive test for cyanide.
27807211|This study categorized and identified plants depicted on Maya ceramics from the Classic Period (250 A.D.900 A.D.). We chose art objects with a predominance of iconographic images of Malvaceae subfamily Bombacoideae, which are easily identified morphologically and have culinary, medicinal, ceremonial, economic, and cosmological significance to the Maya. Among ten species of Bombacoideae native to the Southern Lowlands region of Central America (Belize, parts of Guatemala, and Mexico), the Maya utilized at least six, which also have Maya names. We observed four or five bombacoid species depicted on Maya ceramics; most images were identifiable to genus. Burial ums and incensarios (incense burners) commonly had images of trunk spines of Ceiba pentandra, the Maya "World Tree." Flowers of Pseudobombax ellipticum, a plant used to make ceremonial beverages, were most similar to floral images portrayed on vessels, bowls, and plates, although the morphologically similar flowers of Pachira aquatica may also be depicted. Plants representing Quararibea funebris or Q. guatemalteca, which were used during preparation of cacao beverages, were discernable on drinking vessels.
4257170|Passport data for Mexico's Guanajuato State were used to locate the sites where maize was collected in the 1940s and 1950s in an effort to document and conserve diversity. A map presenting survey points illustrates that collections have occurred repeatedly in the same locations. Observations of these locations reveal that urbanization and industrialization, not high yielding varieties, are displacing traditional varieties. Non-linear principal components analysis was used to assess associations between variables in areas where maize persists. Landraces appear to be associated with mountains and mesas, mixed cropping, little or no access to irrigation and areas classified as having low agricultural capacity; conversely, landraces have more commonly been replaced in areas of high agricultural capacity. The areas of high agriculture capacity, located in the riparian areas and plains, also have been the easiest to develop for urban and industrial use. Increasingly high rates of urbanization and development in areas of high agriculture capacity will impede the conservation of crop diversity in these areas.
4252127|Processing of tung fruit to produce high quality tung oil has been subjected to continuous modification, improvement, and mechanization. Domestic tung oil is high in eleostearate content and normally meets all recognized specifications. The basic chemistry of the major components of tung oil, the eleostearic acids, has been well established. Although the major industrial use of tung oil continues to be in the drying oil field, research is under way to take advantage of the unique chemical character of the eleostearic acids. Progress is being made in the utilization of the by-products, tung hulls and tung press cake.
40390436|The northwest of the Iberian Peninsula is home to a number of ancient grapevine varieties now in danger of extinction, regarding which the literature contains only a few references, dating from the 19th century. In this region, baroque religious art, which is commonly ornamented with grapevine motifs, achieved great importance. This work reports the ampelographic comparison of the leaves of 19 old grapevine varieties from this region with those represented on 42 baroque altarpieces. Many of the latter were found to be ampelographically correct representations of grapevine leaves; in some cases they showed such similarity to these old varieties that their cultivation at the time when the corresponding sculptures were made can be confirmed. A larger study may therefore help determine when other varieties were cultivated in the past.
4254112|Eragrostis tef (Zucc.) Trotter is a native Ethiopian cereal. It was recently classified into 35 cultivars which are united into 6 complexes based on inflorescence morphology, grain color, time to maturity and uses. These complexes do not show ecogeographic unity, and they cross ethnological boundaries. Thirty-nine collections of t'ef were studied in biosystematic detail, and compared with E. aethiopica Chiov. and E. pilosa (L.) Beauv., two putative ancestors of the cereal. The latter species is morphologically variable but closely allied to E. tef. Three morphologically distinct complexes are recognized within the cereal. The ethnological significance of these complexes of t'ef is not clear.
4252882|This study was performed to determine the biological activity in mice of eight species of Solidago (goldenrod) and to determine some of the chemical groups present in these species. Biologically active substances were present in all of the species tested. Tests of six species were positive for alkaloids. All but one of the species contained demonstrable saponins. All of the species contained tannins, whereas six or seven species were positive for flavonoids. Quaternary bases were not found in any of the species tested. A comparison of the biological activity in mice of these species of Solidago, extracts of which were injected intraperitoneally, showed their descending order of activity to be: (1) S. flexicaulis L., (2) S. hispida Muhl., (3) S. juncea Ait., (4) S. serotina Ait., (5) S. canadensis L., (6) S. rugosa Ait., (7) S. uliginosa Nutt., and (8) S. squarrosa Muhl.
4252027|Potatoes, anues, ocas and ullucus fed the pre-Columbian Incas and still feed their modern descendants, but only the potato has traveled to other parts of the world. Who knows what rivalry the potato might have had it the other three had received the same attention in efforts toward improvement?
4254187|The occurrence of antibiotic activity in the extracts of 114 species of pteridophytes (27 families, 61 genera) has been surveyed. The plants were extracted in water, methanol, 70% ethanol, acetone and ether and assayed against 3 grampositive, 1 acid-fast and 5 gram-negative bacteria and 3 fungal plant pathogens. Sixty-seven ferns and 6 fern allies, representing 64% of the samples examined, were antibiotically active. The active substances were in most cases antibacterial and only 3 possessed antifungal activity. Thirty-three species were inhibitory to gram-positive bacteria alone, 9 exclusively against gram-negative bacteria and 15 to both. Twenty species were inhibitory to penicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, 16 against Mycobacterium phlei, 24 against Salmonella typhi, 16 against Vibrio cholerae and 3 against Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Only Dryopteris cochleata was active against both bacteria and fungi. Five other species of Dryopteris showed remarkable antibacterial activity. The ferns of "Adiantum group" were found to be particularly active against gram-positive bacteria. The polypodiaceous ferns constitute a rich group of which Microsorium alternifolium, Leptochillus decurrens, Polypodium irioides, Pyrrosia mannii and Phymatodes ebenipes deserve special mention. Several thelypteroid, davalloid and athyroid ferns were also fairly active.
4254770|Throughout Oceania, pit fermentation of starchy crops was used as means of ensuring a predictable food supply despite the vagaries of drought, cyclonic storms, and warfare. During a 6-mo period, fermentation techniques for breadfruit (Artocarpus altilis) were studied in Micronesia in the islands comprising Majuro, Guam, Belau, Yap, and Ponape. Fermentation techniques were found to vary throughout Micronensia but as a whole to differ significantly from techniques used in Polynesia. We believe the benefits of such food preservation technologies to be significant in facilitating colonization of temporally marginal island environments.
4256456| Maize field weeds or agrestals are widely used in central Mexico as potherbs (quelites) and forage. This work presents quantitative data on these uses from the village of San Bartolo del Llano, Municipio de Ixtlahuaca, Valley of Toluca, an area with a relatively intensive, semicommercial agriculture. We interviewed 24 families of the village and 10 vendors at the market of Ixtlahuaca regularly during one rainy season (1995) on type and quantity of weed use. Also, the weed vegetation was surveyed and we interviewed 49 farmers on their farming practices and on costs. All of the 74 weed species found in maize fields were useful as forage, potherb, medicinal, or ornamental. Within the village, 11 species were eaten; an average family consumed 4.5 kg of wild potherbs per month during the rainy season. In Ixtlahuaca, 2150 kg of 10 species were sold, worth 3054 pesos (US $611). For quantity and gross economic value, forage was much more important. On the average, 1 ha of maize field produced a harvest of 1.5 t of green forage, worth about 25% of the gross value of the maize harvest, and 55% of its net value. The combination of maize with forage weeds for stabled animals constitutes an interesting integrated farming system. The weeds increase the useful biomass of the field, improve nutrition of the farmers, do not reduce the yield of the main crop, as the fields are kept weed free during the critical period, and provide erosion control, shade, and green manure. /// En el centro de Mxico, las plantas arvenses son utilizadas ampliamente como verdura (quelite) o como forraje. Este trabajo presenta datos cuantitativos sobre stos usos del pueblo de San Bartolo del Llano, Municipio de Ixtlahuaca, Valle de Toluca, una regin con una agricultura intensiva y semi-comercial. Entrevistamos a 24 familias del pueblo y 10 vendedores de quelites en el mercado de Ixtlahuaca peridicamente durante una estacin de lluvias (1995) acerca del tipo y la cantidad de malezas usadas. Tambin estudiamos la vegetacin arvense y entrevistamos a 49 campesinos sobre sus prcticas agrcolas. Todas las 74 especies de arvenses de maz eran tiles como forrajeras, comestibles, medicinales u ornamentales. Dentro del pueblo, se consumieron once especies, y 4.5 kg de quelite por familia por mes en promedio. En Ixtlahuaca, se vendieron 2150 kg de diez especies, con un valor de 3054 pesos (611 US $). El uso como forraje es ms relevante en cantidad y valor econmico bruto. En promedio, 1 ha de cultivo de maz rindi 1.5 t de forraje verde, lo cual se valu en aproximadamente 25% del valor bruto de la cosecha de maz en grano, y en 55% del valor neto. La combinacin de maz con malezas forrajeras para animales estabulados es un sistema agrcola integrado interesante. Las malezas aumentan la biomasa til del campo, mejoran la nutricin de los campesinos, no perjudican al cultivo principal ya que el periodo crtico es libre de malezas, y proveen control de erosin, sombra y abono verde. 
27807216|Illegal extraction of non-timber forest products in the tropics is widespread, and many protected areas face the challenge of balancing conservation needs with cultural practices related to the use and extraction of animals and plants. We studied the illegal wild palm heart extraction of Geonoma edulis, locally known as srtuba, in Volcn Pos and Braulio Carrillo National Parks in Costa Rica. Through 96 questionnaires administered in three communities bordering these national parks, and by semistructured interviews with poachers and park managers, this study examined extraction and consumption motives, patterns, and frequencies. This palm is sought out by the communities for use during Holy Week to satisfy cultural traditions, for its associated nutritive value, and because of its unique bitter flavor, not comparable to domesticated palm heart. Whereas the majority of the respondents consume it during Holy Week (55.2%), a substantial number (27.1%) consume G. edulis palm heart at least once a month. The majority extract once a year (58%); however, a minority (2.1%) rely on G. edulis for economic subsistence. This accounts for 72.6% of the reported extraction (over 4,500 palms per year) and is supplying a year-round market for nontraditional use. Our results show that what most likely began as a cultural tradition has become an uncontrolled, nontraditional source of income. Additional efforts should determine the feasibility of limited extraction outside protected areas to satisfy traditional use. Such an effort entails the decentralization of biodiversity policies and innovative methods to implement protective measures, as well as incentives for community involvement in the management of this palm heart species.
40390437|In the Mediterranean basin, with a manifold biocultural history, traditional knowledge is an important element of rural life. The use of food plants, for example, is a practice that has developed over generations and is part of the traditional knowledge system. However, for methodological reasons, the historical development of plant use is difficult to ascertain in cultures which rely on the oral transmission of knowledge. Here we discuss the antiquity of non-cultivated food plant use in the Graecanic area in Calabria, Southern Italy. We compare today's gathered food plants in this ethnic Greek community with non-cultivated food plant use in modern and classical Greece using linguistic-historical methods. Fourteen cognates have been found, such as Portulaca oleracea (purslane), which is called andrcla in the Graecanic area in Southern Italy and andrkla in Greece. The young leaves of purslane are used as salad in both areas. Plants with such cognates are likely to have been used in the study region as vegetables, salads, or condiments since the time Magna Graecia flourished in Southern Italy more than 2,000 years ago.
4287909|In 1898 the U. S. Department of Agriculture began importation of economically important plants for possible cultivation and utilization in the United States. Since then nearly a quarter million introductions have been made, including the hard winter wheats which today are grown annually on some 27 million acres, and soybeans which now support a billion-dollar industry.
4255072| The various kinds of funeral ceremonies performed by the Torajanese of the South Central Celebes are described. The plants used in each of these ceremonies are enumerated and their ethnobotanical significance is noted. /// Os vrios tipos de ceremnias funerais realizados pelos Torajans dos Celebes Sudcentrais so descritos. As plantas usados em cada ceremnia esto enumeradas e seus significados etnobotnicos so indicados. 
4252794|Sterile petal-like stamens, reported by others in North American wild carrot, are here reported and illustrated from a wild carrot accession from Sweden. Although the North American material has been utilized already in carrot breeding, a more fundamental study of stamen petaloidy in botanical research dealing with flower differentiation is urged.
4254851|Fevillea is a small neotropical liana genus of the Cucurbitaceae that is well known ethnobotanically as having seeds with purgative and emetic properties. We report here the unusually high oil content of its seeds, first called to our attention by their use as candles by the Campa Indians in Amazonian Peru. Fevillea fruits apparently have a higher seed oil content than do those of any other dicotyledon. We suggest that, if the naturally occurring lianas in an uncut rain forest were all replaced by Fevillea vines producing at normal levels, a per hectare oil yield comparable to those obtained in the most productive oil-seed plantations might be expected-without cutting a single tree. Different Fevillea species have different seed-oil compositions and different ecological requirements, suggesting that appropriate breeding and agronomic development could lead to their use as new oil crops grown under a wide variety of tropical situations.
41001200|In the tropical oceanic islands of the Pacific, vegetation patterns and dynamics are the result of plant dispersal capacities, the physical characteristics of the islands' ecosystems, and natural disturbances. However, humans have profoundly modified native landscapes through habitat destruction and the introduction of animal and plant species. The candlenut tree Aleurites moluccana (Euphorbiaceae) and the Polynesian bamboo Schizostachyum glaucifolium (Poaceae), intentionally introduced as useful plants by the first Polynesian migrants at least 1,000 years ago, are now widely naturalized in the high volcanic islands of the Society archipelago (French Polynesia), but with an intriguing patchy distribution. The present study consists of a comparative analysis between the most recent existing vegetation map and the known archeological sites on the island of Tahiti. Thirty-nine bamboo groves and 30 candlenut forests were identified and located using GIS and a Digital Elevation Model. The results show that the dispersal and distribution patterns of these two plant taxa are related to the presence and location of ancient sites of Polynesian occupation. The bamboo groves can be used as a bio-indicator of the presence of potential archeological sites. Their currently restricted distribution might reflect habitat requirements and poor dispersal capacities. The candlenut tree and the Polynesian bamboo are relicts of ancient Polynesian society that have persisted and remain integrated in the modern landscape. They can therefore be viewed as introduced species of high cultural heritage value. Dans les les tropicales du Pacifique, la distribution spatiale de la vgtation rsulte du pouvoir de dispersion des diaspores, des perturbations naturelles et des capacits d'accueil des milieux insulaires. Cependant, les socits polynsiennes ont profondment modifi les paysages vgtaux. Introduits il y a plus de 1,000 ans par les premiers Polynsiens, le bancoulier Aleurites moluccana (Euphorbiaceae) et le bambou polynsien Schizostachyum glaucifolium (Poaceae) sont aujourd'hui naturaliss dans les Iles de la Socit (Polynsie franaise) mais possdent sur Tahiti une distribution spatiale originale. Aussi, cet article vise  comparer la rpartition actuelle des forts de bancouliers et des bambouseraies avec celle des vestiges archologiques pr-europens. Trente-neuf bambouseraies et 30 forts de bancouliers ont t rpertories sur Tahiti et localises sous Systme d'Information Gographique et Modle Numrique de Terrain. Les rsultats montrent que la dispersion et la dynamique spatiale de ces taxons dans les valles sont fortement hrits de la position topographique des anciens foyers de peuplements. Les bambouseraies peuvent tre considres comme des bio-indicateurs potentiels des sites archologiques. Ce fait est notamment associ  la faible capacit de dispersion du bambou polynsien. Ainsi, au-del des approches biogographiques classiques, vacuant souvent l'hritage des socits au profit de facteurs cologiques jugs plus dterminants, nous proposons une autre grille de lecture des bambouseraies et des forts de bancouliers sur Tahiti.
4254727| Stands of babassu palms (Orbignya martiana) occupy an area of Brazil estimated at nearly 200,000 km
4257086| The Mediterranean basin has a long and multifaceted cultural history and harbors a high biodiversity. Epidemiological studies have drawn attention to certain traditional Mediterranean diets. However, wild gathered food species, which are an important, but fast disappearing element of these diets, so far have been largely neglected in scientific studies. In this study we compare ethnobotanical data obtained from field studies conducted in Southern Italy, Southern Spain, mainland Greece, and Crete resulting in the identification of a core group of 18 culinary used wild gathered plant species. This group comprises species like Papaver rhoeas L., Sonchus asper L., S. oleraceus L., and Silene vulgaris L. We argue that the culinary use of wild gathered weedy greens evolved together with the neolithization process, since this offered the necessary ecological niches for them to thrive, thereby enriching and securing the diets of European agriculturalists. Especially wild gathered Asteraceae species seem to form a sort of proto-nutraceutical, which accounts for a significant input of biologically active compounds in the diet. /// Il bacino Mediterraneo ha vissuto una lunga e multisfaccettata storia culturale e gode di una ricca biodiversit. Studi epidemiologici hanno attirato attenzione su certe diete mediterranee. Attualmente l'uso culinario di piante selvagge e commestibili, elemento importante di queste diete, si sta perdendo e ha ricevuto poca attenzione dal punto di vista scientifico. In questo lavoro mettiamo a paragone una serie di dati etnobotanici ottenuti da ricerche di campo nel sud dell'Italia, nel sud della Spagna, nella Grecia e a Creta risultanti nell'identificazione di un gruppo principale di 18 specie selvatiche ad uso culinario. Questo gruppo comprende specie come il Papaver rhoeas L., il Sonchus asper L., il S. oleraceus L. e il Silene vulgaris L. Mettiamo in evidenza che l'evoluzione dell'uso culinario delle verdure selvatiche  avvenuto durante il processo di neolitizazzione poich questo ha fornito le nicchie ecologiche necessarie. Attraverso il loro uso gli agricoltori europei hanno arricchito e assicurato la loro dieta. In modo particolare le specie raccolte selvatiche appartenenti alle Astaraceae sembrano formare un protointegratore rappresentando una fonte significativa di composti biologicamente attivi nella dieta. /// La Cuenca Mediterrnea tiene una historia cultural larga y polifactica y alberga una biodiversidad extraordinaria. Diversos estudios epidemiolgicos han atrado atencin sobre algunas dietas mediterrneas tradicionales. Sin embargo, las especies silvestres comestibles recolectadas, un elemento importante de estas dietas que va desapareciendo rpidamente, han sido hasta ahora casie olvidadas en los estudios cientficos. En este artculo comparamos datos etnobotnicos obtenidos de estudios de campo realizados en el sur de Italia, de Espaa y de la Grecia continental y en Creta, que conducen a la identificacin de un grupo central de 18 especies de plantas recolectadas, silvestres, usadas en alimentacin. Este grupo comprende especies como Papaver rhoeas L., Sonchus asper L., S. oleraceus L. y Silene vulgaris L. Sostenemos que el uso culinario de verduras silvestres y de hierbas de los campos de cultivo evolucion asociado al proceso del neolitizacin, que ofreci los nichos ecolgicos necesarios para el desarrollo de estas especies, enriqueciendo y afianzando las dietas de los primeros agricultores europeos. Especialmente las especies silvestres recolectadas de [la familia] Asteraceae, parecen constituir un tipo de proto-nutracutico que aporta significativamente compuestos biolgicamente activos a la dieta. 
4256839|An ethnobotanical study was made of the uses of Atuna racemosa subsp. racemosa (Chrysobalanaceae) in Samoa. The main use is of the cotyledons to extract an anti-inflammatory massage oil and a putty to caulk boats. Minor uses as a medicinal and of the wood are reported and a survey of herbarium material shows that the fruit of Atuna is widely used throughout the Pacific region.
4254651|The family Cucurbitaceae is represented in Nigeria by 21 genera, many of which are of considerable economic importance. Certain genera, such as Telfairia, Cucurbita and Citrullus, are commonly cultivated in southern Nigeria since their fruits and/or leaves constitute important items in the local diet. Other genera are significant as oil plants, medicinal plants, sources of tanning materials, sponges and household utensils.
41242893|Anthropogenic forests and soils are widespread throughout Amazonia and are the product of the landscape domestication process carried out by Amazonian societies since pre-Colombian times. Areas of Terra Preta de ndio (TPI, Amazonian Dark Earths) are recognized by local rural residents and associated with specific forms of use and management of these soils and associated secondary forests.We used a quantitative approach to investigate how secondary forests on TPI are recognized and used by local residents along the middle Madeira River, Central Amazonia. Sixty-two residents were interviewed in three riverside communities and listed the ethnospecies and their uses in secondary forests on TPI and on non-anthropogenic soils (NAS). Local residents mentioned more ethnospecies on TPI (mean  standard deviation: 19.5  8.9) than on NAS (17.4  8.5) f and the use value of the environment to the informants (UVia) was higher on TPI (19  5.7) than on NAS (16.2  6.0). Eleven ethnospecies were classified as anthropogenic soil indicators, among which three intensively used palms are widely recognized as indicators of anthropogenic areas and two are domesticated to some degree. The intimate and lasting interactions between humans and TPI have favored the maintenance of secondary forests in these domesticated landscapes with a diverse assemblage of useful and domesticated species.Rural residents in Amazonia recognize these forests as an important source of food and other resources. The use, management, and traditional knowledge related to these domesticated landscapes may provide useful information for the understanding of Amazonian historical ecology and for the design of more efficient biodiversity management and conservation plans. Florestas e solos antrpicos so amplamente distribudos na Amaznia e so resultado do processo de domesticao da paisagem pelas sociedades Amaznicas desde tempos pr-Colombianos.reas de Terra Preta de ndio (TPI) so reconhecidas por moradores locais e associadas com formas especficas de uso e manejo desses solos e das florestas secundrias associadas a eles.Utilizamos uma abordagem quantitativa para investigar como as florestas secundrias sobre TPI so conhecidas e utilizadas por moradores locais no mdio Rio Madeira, Amaznia Central. Sessenta e dois moradores foram entrevistados em trs comunidades ribeirinhas e listaram etnoespcies e os seus usos em florestas secundrias em TPI e em solos no ntrpicos (NAS). Os residentes locais mencionaram mais etnoespcies em TPI (mdia  desvio padro: 19,5  8,9) do que em NAS (17,4  8,5), e o valor de uso do ambiente para os informantes (UVia) foi maior em TPI (19  5,7) do que em NAS(16,2  6,0). Onze etnoespcies foram classificadas como indicadoras de solos antrpicos, entre as quais trs palmeiras intensivamente utilizadas e amplamente reconhecidas como indicadoras de reas antropognicas, duas das quais domesticadas em algum grau. As interaes ntimas e duradouras entre humanos e TPI nessas paisagens domesticadas favoreceram a manuteno de florestas secundrias com uma diversa assembleia de espcies teis e domesticadas.Moradores locais na Amaznia reconhecem essas florestas como uma fonte importante de alimentos e de outros recursos. A utilizao, manejo e o conhecimento tradicional relacionados a essas paisagens domesticadas podem fornecer informaes teis para o entendimento da ecologia histrica da Amaznia e para o desenvolvimento de estratgias mais eficientes de manejo e conservao da biodiversidade.
4256959|In order to explore the domestication and ethnobotany of Luffa aegyptiaca, collections were made from two regions where wild plants and the domesticate occur: an area in and near southern China, represented by Yunnan Province (China) and northern Laos; and the Indian subcontinent, represented by southeastern Nepal. The allozyme evidence was inconclusive with respect to the region of domestication due to the small sample size of wild accessions from Nepal but suggests a single place of domestication. Principal Components Analysis of morphological characters revealed that some accessions of the domesticate from Yunnan and Laos were more similar to the wild type than were those from Nepal. Compared to the wild type, the domesticate had non-bitter, larger, and indehiscent fruits, flowered earlier, and had thicker fruit vascular bundles. The nutritional content of traditional cultivars was superior to that of a single modern cultivar that was examined. /// [Abstract in Chinese]
4255971| Until now, most of the early rice remains in China were found in the middle to lower reaches of the Yangtze River drainage. Recently, rice remains earlier than 8000 B.P. were found from Jiahu site (8942-7801 B.P.) in Wuyang County of Henan Province, central China. This is the earliest cultivated rice found at this latitude (3337N), which is far outside the current distribution of wild rice species. The discovery is of great implications. It suggests that central China may be one of the centers of early rice domestication. / [Abstract in Chinese] 
4255244| Buttons made of vegetable ivory were once in great demand in industrial parts of the world. Vegetable ivory is the hard white seed endosperm from palms of the genus Phytelephas (Arecaceae). After World War II, ivory nuts were largely replaced by plastics. Recently the authors visited a factory on the coast of Ecuador that was founded in 1926 and still produces buttons of vegetable ivory on a large scale. Eighty employees produce about 5000 lb of buttons a month; these are exported to Japan, West Germany, and Italy. The production is described step by step and the future of vegetable ivory is discussed briefly. /// Botones hechos de tagua o marfil vegetal fueron anteriormente solicitados por la industria mundial. Tagua es la semilla-endosperma dura y blanca de palmeras de la subfamilia Phytelephantoideae. Despus de la segunda Guerra Mundial, el tagua fue reemplazado por plsticos. Recientemente, los autores han visitados una empresa en la costa de Ecuador establecidan en 1926, que todava produce botones de marfil vegetal. Ochenta empleados producen 5000 lb de botones al mes que son exportados al Japn, Allemania Occidental e Italia. La produccin se describe etapa por etapa y la avenida de tagua se trata en breve. 
4254928|Taxonomic and evolutionary relationships between the Chilean cultivars of Solanum tuberosum and the wild species S. maglia are explored. Widely separated centers of origin are postulated for the Group Tuberosum and Group Andigena varieties of the common potato. The first group is believed to have been domesticated originally in the humid forest-lands of southcentral Chile, while the second appears to have arisen in the high, cold Andes of Peru and Bolivia. In connection with the origin of the Group Tuberosum varieties, a 13,000-yr-old specimen of S. maglia from the archaeological site of Monte Verde, Chile, is illustrated and described for the first time. These remains, the oldest on record for any wild or cultivated potato species, are important in that they help to establish the area of southern Chile as one of two main centers for evolution of the common potato.
4256581|When subjected to fungal attack, Aquilaria spp. (Thymelaeaceae) produce a fragrant resin that is traded internationally as gaharu. Socioeconomic aspects of the gaharu trade were investigated via interviews with collectors and local and international traders. In addition, the extent of local and international trade was evaluated by reference to official government statistics. Evidence that gaharu resources are declining was obtained from the personal experience of gaharu collectors, and official statistics relating to the declining number of gaharu export companies in operation. Traders also reported that the main source of gaharu has recently switched from Sumatra and Kalimantan to sources in eastern Indonesia (Maluku and Irian Jaya), a finding supported by official statistics. Disparities recorded between official figures for the price and volume of gaharu in local and international trade, supported by comments made by export traders, indicate that a high proportion of the more valuable, high-grade gaharu is traded illegally by personal transaction. Interviews with gaharu collectors indicated that traditional approaches to harvesting are declining, as more nonlocal people become involved in collection, leading to more intensive harvesting practices. Together, these findings suggest that the current Indonesian trade in gaharu is not sustainable. /// Aquilaria spp. (Thymelaeaceae) jika terserang jamur menghasilkan resin berbau harum yang dikenal sebagai gaharu. Aspek sosial-ekonomi dari perdagangan gaharu di Indonesia ini diteliti melalui wawancara dengan para pengumpul, pedagang lokal dan pedagang internasional. Selain itu, perdagangan internasional juga dievaluasi berdasarkan angka statistik resmi. Bukti bahwa sumberdaya gaharu telah menurun diperoleh dari pengalaman para pengumpul gaharu dan statistik resmi, dikaitkan pula dengan menurunnya kegiatan ekspor gaharu. Para pedagang menyatakan bahwa sumber utama gaharu telah berpindah dari Sumatra dan Kalimantan ke lokasi di Indonesia bagian timur (Maluku dan Irian Jaya). Kenyataan ini juga didukung oleh data statistik. Adanya perbedaan antara data resmi untuk harga dan volume gaharu pada perdagangan lokal dan internasional, yang didukung oleh informasi dari eksportir, menunjukkan bahwa sebagian besar gaharu kualitas tinggi telah diperdagangkan secara ilegal melalui transaksi pribadi. Wawancara dengan pengumpul gaharu mengindikasikan pula bahwa pendekatan tradisional untuk memanen gaharu telah menurun dengan bertambahnya jumlah pendatang yang turut serta dalam pengumpulan, sehingga mengakibatkan pemanenan gaharu yang lebih intensif. Temuan penelitian ini membuktikan bahwa perdagangan gaharu Indonesia pada saat ini tidak lestari.
4287795|The annual processing of citrus fruit wastes in the United States has reached two million tons. Forty thousand tons of pectin could be produced, compared with current production of three thousand tons. The physical and chemical properties of pectic substances are important botanically and industrially. Pectic substances aid in maintaining texture of fruits and vegetables and serve as jellying agents in preserves. The availability of increasing amounts of citrus wastes, combined with improvements in manufacturing techniques and new uses, promises expansion of industries concerned with pectin production and utilization.
4251916|This component of plant cell walls, which gives wood its woody nature, is disposed of as waste by the paperpulp industries of the United States to the extent of more than three million tons annually. Economic utilization of it has long been a problem, and present day uses include conversion of it into vanillin for flavoring.
4254211| A field study has shown that the primitive frost-resistant species Solanum ajanhuiri comprises more intra-specific variability than previously reported. A new group of 5 cultivars of S. ajanhuiri known under the Aymar name of Yari was found. This group is different from that of the type description known as Ajawiri. The area of cultivation of S. ajanhuiri appears to be the smallest of all the South American cultivated potato species. It is endemic to a restricted area of the altiplano region of the Andes and is extensively cultivated only in the Bolivian altiplano between 1630-1845S latitude and 6730-69W longitude and at altitudes of 3,800-4,100 m. It is also sparsely cultivated around Lake Titicaca in Bolivia and Per. Some evidence shows that S. ajanhuiri played an important role in the survival of the Aymar Indians in whose area it is grown. The plants are frost-resistant and mature early; the tubers are generally floury and tasty, and under proper conditions can be stored for long periods. 
4254993|Eight natural populations of Vigna radiata var. sublobata - wild relative of cultivated urd (V. mungo) and mung (V. radiata) beans - were sampled from different ecozones of Palney Hills, an eastward offshoot of Western Ghats of Tamilnadu, India. Photosynthetic efficiency, protein content, seed weight, and amino acid composition were determined for it and the cultigens. Some populations of V. radiata var. sublobata are as good as or even superior to the cultigens. The wild relative is a potential donor of desirable traits to urd and mung beans.
4252098|Crude extracts of many lichens and some lichen acids have considerable antibacterial activity, suggesting their possible value in chemotherapy and providing some justification for their folk-lore use in some countries against pulmonary disorders.
4255499|Trichilia emetica Vahl and T. dregeana Sonder are trees indigenous to Zimbabwe and are widely planted for shade in urban areas. The seed of Trichilia contains oil concentrations as high as most oil-rich dicotyledonous seeds and is a potential source of income for rural people. The seed production of mature trees varies greatly from one year to the next, averaging 64.7 kg of fresh seed per tree annually in Harare. Fresh seed yields approximately 308 ml oil kg
4287765|The laxative property in the juice of aloe leaves has been recognized since ancient times. The Union of South Africa is the principal producer today, but 90% of American imports come from the Dutch West Indies-Aruba and Bonaire.
40390460|Mushroom field guides teach identification skills as well as provide information on the edible or toxic qualities of each species of wild mushroom. As such they function as modern-day village elders for an increasingly urban, nature-ignorant population. This paper identifies underlying cultural bias in the determination of mushroom edibility in English-language field guides, using the iconic mushroom, Amanita muscaria, as an example. We explore a selection of ethnographic and medical texts that report the use of A. muscaria as a food, and we accept parboiling as a safe method of detoxifying it for the dinner table. Mushroom field guides, however, almost universally label the mushroom as poisonous. We discuss the cultural underpinnings and literary form of mushroom field guides and demonstrate that they work within a mostly closed intellectual system that ironically shares many of the same limitations of cultural bias found in traditional folk cultures, but with the pretense of being modern and scientific.
4287969|The continuing importance of natural rubber is shown by the fact that 600,000 long tons are imported into the United States annually. Considerable increases in yield resulted from direct field experiments, and additional increases may be expected from studies in the laboratories of the United States Rubber Company.
4252753|The chemical composition of teff, analyzed from uncontaminated seeds, revealed the superiority of the species in mineral nutritive value. Teff's exceedingly high iron and calcium content was confirmed. The high iron content of teff reported by the Ethiopia Nutrition Survey must have been due to certain inherent factors of the species, not only a result of contamination. The magnitude of mineral obsorption varied among tested teff strains which was considered an important criterion for future selection program within the species.
4251902|In 1943 more than 7 3/4 million pounds of dry cinchona bark were imported into the United States from Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador and Colombia, and in the three years of 1943-1945 the wartime production of Peru alone amounted to over 4 million pounds.
4287942|The use of an extract of the whole or parts of the fruit of Somecarpus anacardium for disorders of the central nervous system is found in several old folk-medicine reports from India and Arabia. Interest in drug plants of possible use in psychopharmacology provides stimulus to investigate and report on the putative values of this product.
4254762|Concern for the future of mankind, in a world of expanding human population and increasing demands on the biota, has intensified interest in the greater use of less well-known plants that are presumed to have potential to ameliorate current and predicted shortages of food and other products derived from organic sources. The premise that a wide range of plants is underutilized is examined. Consideration of plant use in hunting-gathering societies and through the development of agriculture places utilization in a different perspective and indicates that man selects from the biota plants that reflect and support his needs in any given cultural context and at any level of technological achievement. The future of agricultural systems and practices is considered. The potential of plants is discussed as an outgrowth of historical trends and predicted changes in the earth's plant resource base and its genetic diversity, modifications in primary, secondary, and tertiary pools of utilized plants, and advances in biotechnology. The evidence indicates continued humanization of the world, greater management of biotic resources, and increased applications of technology to agriculture, accompanied by a general decline worldwide in species and genetic diversity and increasing simplification and internationalization of the primary and secondary pools of cultivated plants. The direct utilization of wild plants by man will become more limited. Increased use of plants thought to be underutilized is likely to develop largely in relation to new needs and imperatives of mankind.
4255744| Between 1987 and 1992 the phytogeographic region of southern Mexico was explored during three collecting trips made in search of cultivated and wild germplasm of the sweetpotato (Ipomoea batatas). The first trip was made in 1987, when we collected wild species in Ipomoea section Batatas found in the southeastern and southwestern regions of Mexico. A second trip was made in 1990, when we collected accessions of the cultivated species as well as wild species in the southeast, southwest and northeast. The third and final trip was oriented at identification, characterization and collecting seeds in the ecological niches of I. tabascana and I. umbraticola. As a result of the three trips we collected 165 accessions of cultivated and wild germplasm with populations dispersed in 147 localities in 15 states of the Mexican region: Veracruz, Tabasco, Campeche, Chiapas, Oaxaca, Yucatn, Guerrero, Michoacn, San Luis Potos, Hidalgo, Quertaro, Tamaulipas, Guanajuato, Puebla and Mxico. Of the total accessions some 64 (38.3%) were of the cultivated species including nine accessions of feral material, and 103 accessions (61.7%) were of wild species made up of 59 accessions of seven species in the section Batatas, 37 of other species in the family Convolvulaceae, and seven yet to be determined. We have identified the largest genetic biodiversity in six localities of five states: Tabasco, Oaxaca, Michoacn, San Luis Potos, and Puebla. Biodiversity maintenance in this region is associated with the day-of-the-dead festivities. /// Desde 1987 a 1992, la fitogeografa de Mxico del sur fue explorado en tres viajes de coleccin de germoplasma cultivado y silvestre de la batata. El primer viaje de coleccin fue realizado en 1987, colectandose especies silvestres de la seccin Batatas distribuidos en la regin sureste y suroeste de Mxico. En el segundo viaje realizado en 1990, se colectaron entradas de la especie cultivada y especies silvestres distribuidos en la regin sureste, suroeste y noroeste. La finalidad del tercer viaje estuvo orientado a identificar, caracterizar y colectar semilla en nichos ecolgicos de Ipomoea tabascana e Ipomoea umbraticola. Como resultado de los tres viajes de exploracin fueron colectados 165 entradas de germoplasma cultivado y silvestre con poblaciones dispersas en 147 localidades de 15 estados de la regin mexica: Veracruz, Tabasco, Campeche, Chiapas, Oaxaca, Yucatn, Guerrero, Michoacn, San Luis Potos, Hidalgo, Quertaro, Tamaulipas, Guanajuato, Puebla y Mxico. Del total de entradas colectadas, 64 (38,8%) corresponden a la especie cultivada incluyendose nueve entradas del material asilvestrado (feral) y 101 (61,2%) pertenecen a especies silvestres constituidos por 57 entradas de siete especies de la seccin Batatas, 37 de otras especies de la familia Convolvulaceae y siete en proceso de identificacin taxonmica. Asmismo, se ha identificado una amplia biodiversidad gentica en ecogeografias de seis localidades de cinco estados: Tabasco, Oaxaca, Michoacn, San Luis Potos y Puebla. Conservacion de la biodiversidad en la regin es ligado con la celebracion del da de los defunctos. 
4251992|Many of the resins or resin-like substances of the Mediterranean and adjoining regions have been exploited by man from the earliest times. Good examples are myrrh and frankincense with their Biblical associations and use in incense. Others were much valued for medicinal purposes. Some were used by the Egyptians in embalming, while mastic and sandarac have long been valued for special paints and varnishes. In the Middle Ages the famous Italian painters made use of them, the actual formulae used being sometimes closely guarded secrets.
4254184|The Mikirs living in Karbi-Anglong district in northeastern India depend on the natural plant resources of their neighbouring forests for much of their food, all their medicine, and for other material cultural needs and recreation. They, of course, use many plants in their magico-religious ceremonies. The area has remained botanically and ethnobotanically unexplored until the recent studies were initiated in 1976. Many heretofore unknown or little-known uses of plants have been recorded. However, much remains to be learnt from this region regarding the use of plants for human welfare.
4287850|The distribution, flowering period and abundance of 185 species, growing wild in Greece and injurious to grazing cattle there, are here listed.
4255405|A project was undertaken during 1988 to investigate traditional yam (Dioscorea spp.) production on Pohnpei Island in the Eastern Carolines. Yam is the most important crop on the island and figures prominently in the traditional prestige system. One hundred seventy-seven locally-recognized cultivars of yam representing 5 species were reported by informants. Yam production is seasonal, complementing the breadfruit season. The yam season is delineated by a series of feasts and ceremonies. In order to insure a steady supply of yams during this time, farmers plant several cultivars, use different trellising methods, and employ other techniques. Cultivation of yams is done mainly under live breadfruit trees, although several other species of trees are used, and are often ring-barked to improve yam growth. Taboos and magic are still employed by many farmers. Although production per unit land area is low under the traditional system, yams of large size are produced which are highly suitable for prestige purposes. /// 1988 wurde ein Projekt durchgefuehrt, dass die traditionelle Yamserzeugung (Dioscorea spp.) auf der Insel Pohnpei in den oestlichen Karolinen untersuchen sollte. Yams ist die wichtigste Anbaupflanze auf der Insel und spielt in dem traditionellen Prestigesystem eine bedeutende Rolle. Es wurden 177 Yamszuechtungen identifiziert, die 5 Arten repraesentieren. Die Yamserzeugung richtet sich nach einem Jahrezyklus und schliesst sich an die Brotfruchtsaison an. Die Yammssaison markiert eine Reihe an Festen und Zeremonien. Um eine gleichmaessige Versorgung waehrend dieser Zeit sicherzustellen, pflanzen die Farmer mehrere Zuechtungen, wenden verschiedene Spaliermethoden an und beziehen andere Techniken mit ein. Yams wird hauptsaechlich unter Brotfruchtbaeumen angebaut, obgleich man auch andere Baumarten auswaehlen kann, welche oft ringfoermig entrindet werden, um den Yamswuchs zu foerdern. Viele Farmer beziehen immer noch Tabus und Magie in den Anbau mit ein. Obwohl das traditionelle Anbausystem den Ertrag per Landeinheit nicht erhoeht, bringt es doch Yamsknollen von grossem Umfang hervor, die aus Pretigegruenden sehr geschaetzt werden.
4254505|Cucurbita foetidissima is a native American wild plant with potential as a protein food and oil source. Research has previously been done on the composition of its amino acids and oils and on methods for cultivating it. This paper provides a comprehensive mineral analysis of the seeds and whole gourds and demonstrates that nutritional qualities of the buffalo gourd compare favorably with dry cow-feed. Buffalo gourd seed was also found to contain a trypsin inhibitor.
4256907|More than 18 000 archaeological sites have been identified, and a dozen rock shelter sites investigated in the Zeekoe Valley, Upper Karoo, South Africa, but no work has been performed to date regarding edible plant remains. A baseline for understanding potential contribution of plants to the Zeekoe Valley diet is crucial for developing models of land use and mobility patterns for Late Stone Age (LSA) inhabitants, particularly since ethnographically known foragers in Botswana, some 800 km to the north, are as much as 80% dependent on plant foods for their survival. Since native foraging groups are long extinct in this semi-arid region with abundant natural springs, a rigorous investigation of botanical and ethnohistoric literature forms the groundwork for field investigations where direct ethnographic observation is no longer an option. First, edible species in the study area are identified in the literature. They are then sought on the ground with the aid of local informants whose families have resided in the valley for generations. It appears as though some knowledge of local plants gained from native foragers 150 years ago or more has remained in Afrikaans families passed down from landowning parent to child. On the ground, collection and middle range experimentation was followed by basic nutritional analysis. These measures were then used to compare foraging efficiency to measures from extant foraging groups. While dozens of edible species were identified, five plant species formed the focus of this study: Slymstock Uintjie (Albuca canadensis); Boesman Uintjie (Cyperus usitatus, Cyperus fulgens); Jakkalsbosberry (Diospyros austro-africana); Rooi wortel (Pelargorium sidoides); and Osbossie (Talinum caffrum). Results suggest native foraging groups, now extinct in the vicinity, may have been 60% or more dependent on plant food resources, despite abundance of game in the area and in the archaeological record.
4287990|Simmondsia chinensis is unique in many ways. Endemic to the Sonoran Desert of Mexico and the United States, its broad, persistent, heavy leaves are unlike any of its associates. Its large edible seeds contain about 50% oil, which is directly used as a cooking oil and as a hair oil. The oil has excellent qualities for many industrial and medicinal uses. Chemically it is a liquid wax and by hydrogenation is easily converted to a hard white wax. Jojoba's singular characteristics as a desert shrub, however, present many problems facing its development as a cultivated plant.
4252173|F
4253209|Limnanthes is a potential seed oil source of long chain fatty acids. Agronomic evaluations in Alaska, California, Maryland, and Oregon indicate that the L. alba group has the best crop potential because of superior seed retention and erect growth habit. Experimental seed yields of 1700 kg/ha or more indicate that economically feasible yields on a commercial scale will be attainable, as continued study reveals optimum cultural practices and utilizes variability present in the various accessions. For the best seed yields, Limnanthes must be handled as a winter annual in California, Maryland, and Oregon but as a spring-seeded annual in Alaska. Limnanthes plants mature rapidly during hot weather; thus the timing of harvest is critical for maximization of seed yields. Further studies on seeding rates, weed control, and harvest methods are suggested.
4256455|In its long period of evolution and cultivation, Chinese sorghums have formed a rich genetic base in which unique characteristics have evolved. These resources and their characteristics have been identified and partially utilized within China's breeding programs. Records and data have been compiled and updated into the Annuals of Chinese Sorghum Varieties, Catalogue of Chinese Sorghum Variety Resources. These evaluations and recorded information provide a solid base from which further studies and utilization of this important source of genetic diversity can take place in the future.
4253158|The antifungal activity of the different stages of Anagallis arvensis L. was compared, and similar results were obtained by all the methods of testing. Different dilutions of extracts of each of the plant-growth stages were tested for their effect on the germination of spores of Helminthosporium turcicum Pass. In Anagallis arvensis, the antifungal principle gradually increases in concentration from 'seedling stage' to the 'flowering-initiation stage,' then decreases with advanced age. The growth stages in the declining order of their fungitoxicity were 'flowering-initiated,' 'full bloom with a few green fruits,' 'mature plants,' 'pre-flowering,' and 'seedling stage.'
40686787|The Gideon Lincecum Herbarium represents the pharmacopoeia of Dr. Gideon Lincecum, a botanical physician practicing in Mississippi and Texas during the first half of the nineteenth century. The herbarium contains 313 specimens representing 309 species, 242 genera, and 96 families, and includes ethnobotanical annotations for 286 medicinal taxa. The collection data provided by Lincecum indicate that the specimens were collected between 1835 and 1852. With the exception of 22 specimens considered by Campbell (1951), this is the first study to place this pharmacopoeia in a historical context. Taxonomic determinations of the herbarium specimens were confirmed or corrected. Comparative analyses were conducted to investigate the relationship of Lincecum's pharmacopoeia to those of six other medical traditions practiced in the southern United States during the nineteenth century. Cluster analyses based on Jaccard coefficient placed the historical pharmacopoeias of medical traditions in the early nineteenth century into distinct Euro-American and American Indian groups. Despite the recognition of distinct allopathic and botanical medical traditions, an extensive overlap in the composition of their pharmacopoeias is observed. This may reflect the reliance of these traditions on allopathic principles and drugs of plant origin during the first half of the nineteenth century. In contrast, Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, and Creek pharmacopoeias show limited overlap with each other in composition despite a long history of interaction between these groups. Lincecum's pharmacopoeia shares a larger Jaccard co-efficient value with the Choctaw pharmacopoeia than would be expected based on their placement in distinct Euro-American and American Indian groups in the dendrogram. The large proportion of Lincecum's citations that reference Choctaw informants provides direct evidence for the incorporation of Choctaw medical knowledge and taxa into Lincecum's pharmacopoeia. These data suggest that the composition of historical pharmacopoeias is influenced by both contemporary medical practices and the regional and cultural contexts in which the pharmacopoeias are utilized.
25568897|Ethnobotanists use a variety of interview techniques to collect ethnobotanical data. Drawing upon the results from a quantitative ethnobotanical study in five Yuracar and Trinitario communities in the Bolivian Amazon, the pros and cons of the following methods are evaluated: (1) interviews in situ during transects, walk-in-the-woods, and homegarden sampling; and (2) interviews ex situ with fresh plant material, voucher specimens, or plant photographs as reference tools. Although the systematic use of plant photographs for ethnobotanical interviews is poorly documented in literature, the results show that indigenous participants in our study recognize significantly more plant species from photographs than from voucher specimens. It is argued that, especially in remote and isolated study sites, photographs might be advantageous over voucher specimens.
4252067|Australia requires about 33,000,000 pounds of flue-cured tobacco annually and produces only 4,000,000 pounds, most of the balance being imported from the U.S.A. Production could be increased if water for irrigation were available during the "dry" season in the northeastern coastal districts. The manufacturing industry is capable of meeting all requirements.
4255806| We report the diversity of plants used by the Garfuna focusing on medicinals. Garfuna plants documented in this study are distributed among 75 families, 193 genera, and 254 species. Included are 229 medicinals, 93 food plants, and 94 species for other uses. Garfuna medicinals treat more than 30 human ailments and most are native (74%) to eastern Nicaragua. About 70% of the medicinals have some bioactive principle, most are herbs (37%) or trees (34%), and leaves are the most frequently utilized plant part. Most are prepared as decoctions and are administered orally. Most food plants are domesticates, and only 14 of 51 domesticated food species are native to the NW tropics with only three to Mesoamerica. Garfuna culture is changing rapidly as a result of contact with immigrating mestizos from central Nicaragua. This study provides a written record of folk medicine and ethnobotany for the people of eastern Nicaragua. /// Presentamos un informe sobre la diversidad de plantas usadas por los Garfunas con enfoque en aplicaciones medicinales. Las plantas Garfunas documentadas en este estudio (1992-1993) representan 75 familias, 193 gneros y 254 especies. De stas, 229 son medicinales, 93 comestibles y 94 de usos anciliares. La farmacopea Garfuna se utiliza para tratar ms de 30 dolencias humanas. El 74% de las plantas medicinales son nativas de Nicaragua oriental, aproximadamente el 70% tienen algn principio bioactivo, 37% son hierbas o rboles (34%) y la hoja es la parte ms utilizada. Los remedios medicinales son preparados preferiblemente en decocin y administrados oralmente. La mayora de las plantas comestibles son domesticadas y slo14 de 51 son nativas del neotrpico y slo tres de Mesoamerica. Los Garfunas estan sujetos a una rpida aculturacin debido a la inmigracin de mestizos del rea central de Nicaragua. Por consiguiente, este estudio documenta la etnomedicina y la etnobotnica para la poblacin del oriente Nicaragense. 
4287898|Routine crude drug assays and tests for steroidal saponins, flavonols, tannins, phenols, organic acids, unsaturated sterols and alkaloids have been made on the leaves of Carica papaya L. The alkaloid, carpaine, was isolated and identified.
40390434|The local nomenclature, use, and distribution of C. frutescens among indigenous peoples in Taiwan and the Batanes Islands were studied. Among Taiwanese indigenous peoples, the distribution, frequency of use, and importance of C. frutescens were found to increase with decreasing latitude, which appears to have affected the local names of Capsicum and C. frutescens. The local name for Capsicum in the Batanes Islands"sili"is used by several indigenous peoples in Taiwan, suggesting that Capsicum was brought from the south to the north. Indigenous peoples in Taiwan and the Batanes Islands used C. frutescens fruits as condiments, medicines, ornaments, or for ritual uses; also, they used its leaves for soup. A complex of both green and yellowish-green types possessing ShDH-B was introduced from Indonesia into the Batanes Islands and Taiwan, and later only the type with yellowish-green immature fruit was introduced to the Ryukyu Islands under the bottleneck effect.
4255338| Ladizinsky's (1987) mathematical model of the domestication of lentils and other Near Eastern legumes is invalid. Ladizinsky believed that the model predicts that high rates of seed harvesting would lead to fixation, in wild populations, of genes conferring lack of seed dormancy (a domesticated trait). In fact, however, the model gives rapid fixation of alleles for non-dormancy under all circumstances; gathering by humans has no effect on allelic frequencies. It appears that in these species cultivation must have preceded the morphological changes that distinguish domesticated from wild plants. The addition of more realistic assumptions to the model does not alter this conclusion. I suggest several scenarios that could explain Near Eastern legume domestication: the most plausible of these postulates that cultivation of cereals led to scheduling conflicts which necessitated the abandonment of harvesting of wild legumes, and hence the initiation of their cultivation. Mathematical modelling may be able to contribute to our understanding of agricultural origins, but it must be carried out with greater rigor and closer attention to the theoretical literature. /// Ladizinsky pensait que son modle prvoyait que des rcoltes leves de semences entraineraient dans les populations de plantes sauvages la fixation des gnes controlant un trait de plante domestique, l'inaptitude de la plante  demeurer au stade dormant. En fait son modle sous-entend la fixation rapide des allles de l'inaptitude de la plante  demeurer au state dormant en toutes circonstances; le fait de rcolter est sans effet sur les frquences des allles. Pour ces espces, la culture semble avoir prcd les changements morphologiques qui distinguent les plantes domestique des plantes sauvages. L'apport,  son modle de suppositions plus vraisemblables ne change rien  cette conclusion. Je propose plusieurs hypothses qui pourraient expliquer la domestication des lgumineuses au Proche-Orient: la plus plausible d'entre elles suggre que la culture des crales a cr des conflits d'emploi du temps qui ont ncessit l'abandon de la rcolte des lgumineuses sauvages, et donc le commencement de leur culture. L'usage de modles mathmatiques peut contribuer  la comprhension des origines de l'agriculture, mais il doit tre accompagn d'une plus grande rigueur et d'une attention plus sytmatique  la littrature thorique. 
4255641| Oil concentration and fatty acid composition were determined in achenes of two annual Helianthus species (112 populations) and 11 perennial species (103 populations) from the Great Lakes region and the Central Great Plains of the U.S. The highest average oil concentration was observed in annual H. petiolaris Nutt. with 28.8%, followed by H. annuus L. with 25.4%. Among the perennial species, H. hirsutus Raf. had the highest average oil concentration with 29.8%. The highest average palmitic (C16: 0) and stearic (C18:0) fatty acids were observed in H. tuberosus L. (6.5 and 3.5%, respectively), while the lowest values were observed in H. pauciflorus Nutt. ssp. subrhomboideus (4.2 and 2.1, respectively). The highest oleic acid (C18:1) was observed in H. annuus (24.7%) and the highest linoleic (C18:2) was observed in H. pumilus Nutt. with 71.3%. Sufficient variability appears to be present in the wild species for enhancement of oil and fatty acid characteristics for cultivated sunflower. /// La concentracin de aceite y la composicin del cido graso fueron determinados en aquenios de dos especies de Helianthus anuales (112 poblaciones) y 11 especies perennes (103 poblaciones) procedentes de la regin de los Grandes Lagos y de las Grandes Planicies Centrales de los EE.UU. El promedio mayor de concentracin de aceite se observ en la anual H. petiolaris Nutt. con 28,8%, seguida por H. annuus L. con 25,4%. Entre las especies perennes, la H. hirsutus Raf. tuvo el promedio mayor de concentracin de aceite con 29,8%. El promedio mayor de concentracin de cidos grasos, palmtico (C16:0) y esterico (C18:0) fueron observados en la H. tuberosus L. (6,5% y 3,5%, respectivamente), mientras los valores ms bajos fueron observados en la H. pauciflorus Nutt. ssp. subrhomboideus (4,2 y 2,1, respectivamente). El mayor cido olico (C18:1) se observ en la H. annuus (24,7%) y el mayor cido linolico (C18:2) se observ en la H. pumilus Nutt. con 71,3%. Parece haber suficiente variabilidad en las especies silvestres, para lograr un mejoramiento de las caractersticas de aceite y cido graso del girasol cultivado. 
4252066|Hybridization work and commercial introduction of many new clones into the sugar plantations of this island have resulted in a tenfold increase in sugar production on an acreage basis since 1840.
4255216| Conservation and utilization of Gossypium germplasm for crop improvement depend on field-collecting seed from wild and feral populations. Since the availability of viable seed cannot always be assured during botanical expeditions, a simple tissue culture method was developed to allow the collection of living vegetative material from the field. Field-testing of this culture method in western Mexico resulted in 10% overall shoot formation from six Gossypium species; seed was not available from four of these species. Rooting the cuttings was possible, but more effective rooting procedures need to be developed for general utilization by field botanists, at least with Gossypium. The methodology will probably be broadly applicable to other plant species, particularly those that easily root from cuttings. /// La conservacin y utilizacin de germoplasma de Gossypium para el mejoramiento de los cultivos depende en colecciones de semilla de poblaciones silvestres y semi-silvestres. Porque no es seguro que se puede encontrar semilla en el campo se desarroll un mtodo simple de cultivo de tejido que permite la coleccin de esquejes en el campo. Pruebas del mtodo en Mxico occidental result en 10% de formacin de brotes en seis especies de Gossypium; no se encontr semilla para cuatro de las seis especies. Se demonstr que la formacin de raices ocurre, pero apenas; entonces se require un mtodo ms eficz para el uso de botnicos en el campo, por lo menos con Gossypium. La metodologa probablemente se puede aplicar ampliamente a otras especies de plantas, especialmente las que facilmente forman races de estacas. 
4255695|The history of lichen use for medicinal purposes is reviewed briefly and the contempory uses of three lichens in eastern Andalucia is reported.
4251903|By constantly improved techniques in selection, cross-pollination and grafting in Java since 1907, and by accompanying studies in flower biology, fruit-setting and fruit-dropping, increased yields up to 100% are now achieved after two or three generations of coffee breeding.
4257142|This is the first time aspects of the ethnobotany of East Timor have been reported. The medicinal plant traditions of two distinct East Timorese cultures, the Laklei and Idate, were studied and compared using quantitative ethnobotanical methods. A total of 86 medicinal plant species were identified. The medicinal plant traditions of the Laklei and Idate cultures were compared using Trotter and Logan's (1986) quantitative "informant agreement ratio." On average, informant consensus was greater in Laklei, suggesting a medicinal plant tradition that is more defined than in Idate, where informants are more likely to use the same medicinal plants when treating the same usage categories. Furthermore, only 11 of the 86 medicinal plant species documented were used by both cultures, of which only six had similar mentions. These findings have important implications for the understanding of ethnobotany as they demonstrate how relatively closely situated cultural groups can have significantly different traditional knowledge systems.
4255153| Mentha spicata is the commonest mint species growing wild in Greece, exhibiting great morphological and chemical variability. The oil content from different wild populations examined ranged from 0.3% to 2.2%; the most common value being ca. 1%. Though commercially exploited M. spicata plants are always rich in carvone and dihydrocarvone, wild populations are very variable; four different chemotypes were distinguished within the species. These chemotypes are characterized by the high contribution of the following compounds: (1) linalool, (2) piperitone oxide or piperitenone oxide, (3) carvone-dihydrocarvone and (4) pulegone-menthone-isomenthone. This chemical variability suggests the possibility of further developing and exploiting the full potential of the species. /// Mentha spicata est l'espce de menthe, la plus commune en Grce. Elle est caracterise par une grande diversit, tant morphologique que chimique. Le contenu en huile essentielle des differents populations naturelles a une marge de 0.3%  2.2%, mais la valeur la plus commune est celle d'environs 1%. Bien que les plantes en exploitation commerciale soient toujours riches en carvone et dihydrocarvone, les populations naturelles ne suivent pas cette rgle. D'aprs les constituents majeurs de leurs huiles essentielles, on a distingu quatre divers chimiotypes dans l'espce: (1)  linalool, (2)  oxide de piperitone, (3)  carvone-dihydrocarvone, (4)  pulegone-menthoneisomenthone. Cette variabilit chimique suggre la possibilit de nouvelles pratiques pour dveloper et profiter du potentiel complet de l'espce. 
40686811|This paper explores associations between the returns from harvesting a commercial non-timber forest product and particular characteristics of harvesters and their strategies. Data originate from a survey in Laos of the harvest and trade of agarwood, a highly valuable commodity harvested mainly from tree species in the genus Aquilana. Five groups of harvesters were identified, with considerable differences in returns between them. Foreign harvesters, i. e., ethnic Vietnamese, earned approximately USD 13 per day on average, while nonlocal fulltime harvesters earned approximately USD 9, and nonlocal part-time harvesters USD 7 per day. Local people earn approximately USD 5 per day and only USD 4 if harvesting only took place in village forests. Factors observed to determine returns are market access, especially access to national and international markets, and knowledge and experience in trading, harvesting, and the organization of harvesting trips. It is suggested that interventions should be made to address these factors, to level out returns from harvesting, and to increase the share of returns captured by local people.          .      ,        (Aquilaria). ,  .  :    13  ,     7 .  5    4  .   : ,    ,   , ,  .           .
4254872|Agricultural research is increasingly a global effort. No country can remain isolated in agricultural research without damaging its capacity to respond to challenges to agricultural productivity. In this paper, we explore the role of botany in the international effort to raise and stabilize farm yields. Given the importance of wild species in crop breeding and the increasing use of wild species to upgrade crops, the value of systematics is underlined. The contribution of plant physiology is also discussed, particularly with reference to mechanisms of resistance to pests and diseases and tolerance to adverse soils and climates. The crucial role of ecological studies based on field work is also underscored, particularly as it applies to wild plants and natural genepools, as well as crop protection. The necessity for continued support of botanical studies and gardens is emphasized in the light of the global effort to conserve and utilize crop genetic diversity. Finally, we examine some developments in mycology and biotechnology that have implications for agriculture and pinpoint opportunities for increased collaboration between botanists and agricultural scientists.
4256172| Two mummified bodies have been recovered from the Alero I or La Matanza site (15 km from Cusi-Cusi, Dpto. Santa Catalina, Puna of Jujuy, Argentina) in association with characteristic snuffing paraphernalia. The purpose of this work is to identify the powdered material contained in one of the tubes in order to confirm the hypothesis generated from ethnographical sources, that the rap (snuff) complex was associated with the consumption of Anadenanthera colubrina var. cebil, Fabaceae, the cebil, or, if not, which materials were inhaled. Following analysis with a light microscope, petrographic microscope and scanning electron microscope the unknown material was identified as cebil by comparison with reference material and specialized literature. /// En 1991 se recuperaron dos cuerpos momificados en el Alero I La Matanza (distante 15 km de Cusi-Cusi, Dpto. Santa Catalina, en la Puna de Jujuy, Argentina) en asociacin con el ajuar caracterstico del complejo del rap o complejo alucingeno. Uno de los tubos de hueso hallados contena material pulverizado. El objeto de este trabajo es identificar esta muestra con el objeto de contrastar la hiptesis generada a partir de estudios etnogrfico que asocia el complejo del rap con el consumo de Anadenanthera colubrina var. cebil, Fabaceae, el cebil, o en caso negativo, identificar el material empleado. Mediante anlisis con microscopio fotnico, microscopio petrogrfico y microscopio electrnico de barrido se identific la muestra como cebil por comparacin con material de referencia y bibliografa especializada. 
41408237|In KwaZulu-Natal Province, there is a rich tradition of wetland plant utilization for craft production. A survey of the province, based on interviews and participatory field walks, revealed which wetland plant species are harvested and how the different species are used. The principal plant species utilized varied greatly among regions: In the coastal region it was Cyperns latifolius Poir. (iKhwane) and Juncus kraussii Hchst. (iNcema), whereas in the uplands it was Cyperus marginatus Thunb. (iNcema). The initial hypothesis that the diversity of plant morphologies added to the diversity of different weave types and products was confirmed by the data. Plant morphological characteristics influenced the weaving techniques suitable for craft production. For example, the fine culms of J. kraussii and C marginatus have particular value for twilling, twining, and straight sewing and the robust C. latifolius leaves are well suited for the plait. Pressures on the supply of the natural resource were greatest from competing land uses, such as wetland cultivation and, to a lesser extent, from competition among plant harvesters. There was a high demand for J. kraussii, which is traded beyond the limits of its geographical distribution to a much greater extent than the other species. The paper concludes by recommending the wider application of the approach and methods used in the study in order to inform initiatives promoting small business development based upon sustainably harvested natural resources.
4253034|This is a discussion of an investigation conducted on the morphology and anatomy of Hibiscus vitifolius, the physical and chemical properties of its fibre and yarn, and a preliminary study on reaction to dyes. The quality and physical and chemical properties of the fibre closely resemble those of jute. But further agronomic investigations are needed to assess more fully its potentialities as a commercial crop to supplement the growing demand for jute. Because of its short reed length and higher tex values, it may be best utilized, at present, as a mixture with jute.
4254937|Comparative studies of the pulses of the Middle East and of their wild progenitors indicate that the pattern of pulse domestication is completely different from that of cereals in the same region. Wild legumes are not suitable for cultivation because of their conspicuous seed dormancy. Pre-adaptation of wild pulses for cultivation through loss of the seed dormancy mechanism apparently occurred in wild populations and may have been influenced by the gathering practices of man in pre-agricultural times. Pod indehiscence was of low value in pulse domestication and had evolved after the crop was well established and widespread.
41242892|Though few crops display directly opposing domesticated phenotypes, these crops may be the key to understanding domestication processes that address conflicting selective pressures in the agricultural ecosystem. Two relatively well-known examples are cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz), which has high-cyanide and low-cyanide varieties, and potato (Solanum section Petota). Among the potatoes are several species, including the common potato (Solanum tuberosum L), that have low levels of glycoalkaloids and there are other species of "bitter potato" with elevated levels of glycoalkaloids. We propose that Oxalis tuberosa Molina, "oca," may represent a third example of such a crop system, with opposing high organic acid and low organic acid cultivars. Each cultivar set has different cultural food preparation practices ("use-categories"), similar to the "use-categories" that have been described for potatoes in the Andes (Brush et al. 1981; Zimmerer 1991). Our initial analyses suggest that organic acids in tubers may be an important biochemical difference between use-categories, based on both oxalic acid and pH data. Here, we review our understanding of organic acids in oca tubers, while highlighting areas that merit further investigation. Aunque poos cultivos presentan fenotipos domsticos directamente opuestos, estos cultivos pueden ser la clave para entender los procesos de domesticacin que muestran conflicto en la presin selectiva en el ecosistema agrcola. Dos ejemplos relativamente bien conocidos son la yuca (Manihot esculenta Crantz), que tiene variedades de alto y bajo contenido de cianuro, y la papa (Solanum seccin Petota). Entre las papas hay varias espcies, incluyendo la papa comn (Solanum tuberosum L.), que tienen bajos niveles de glicoalcaloides mientras otras espcies como las "papas amargas", tienen elevados niveles de glicoalcaloides. Nosotros proponemos que Oxalis tuberosa Molina, oca, puede representar un tercer ejemplo de este sistema de cultivo, con niveles altos y bajos de cidos orgnicos. Cada grupo de variedades de oca tiene diferentes practicas culturales respecto a su preparacin como alimentos (categorias de uso), similar a las categorias de uso que se han descrito para las papas en los Andes (Brush et al. 1981; Zimmerer 1991). Los anlisis iniciales sugieren que los cidos orgnicos en los tubrculos pueden deberse a una diferencia bioqumica importante entre el uso de categorias basadas en el cido oxlico y los datos de pH. En este artculo examinamos nuestra interpretacin de los cidos orgnicos en los tubrculos de oca, adernas de destacar Ias reas que merecen mayor investigacin.
4256550| The ungurahua palm (Oenocarpus bataua subsp. bataua) is widely used throughout the Amazon Basin for its thatch, fibers, wood, and edible fruits. The fruits of this species are especially important to indigenous peoples and yield a high quality oil. This study examines the use of this species by the Siona people of the Ecuadorian Amazon in the Cuyabeno Faunistic Reserve. The reproductive phenology, fruit production, and relationship between vegetative characteristics and fruit production is explored here. Fruit production varies greatly from palm to palm with a range of approximately 500-7000 fruits biennially. This amounts to approximately 700 kg/ha every two years. Height, diameter breast height (dbh), and number of leaves on an individual are poor predictors of tree productivity. Reproductive histories of individual palms are examined. The economic potential of this species and the implications of overharvesting are discussed. /// La palma ungurahau (Oenocarpus bataua subsp. bataua) es ampliamente usada en la Hoya Amaznica. Partes de la palma se utilizan en techos, como fibra, madera, y sus frutos son comestibles. Los frutos son especialmente importantes en la dieta de las poblciones indgenas, y tiene una produccin de aceite de alta calidad. Este estudio examina la utilizacin de esta especie de palma por la gente indigena Siona en la Reserva Faunistica de Cuyabeno en la Amaznia del Ecuador. Adicionalmente, se hace un anlisis sobre la fenologia reproductiva, la produccin de frutos, y la relacin que existe entre las caractersticas vegetativas y la produccin de frutos de la palma ungurahua. La produccin bianual de frutos vara de sobremanera en un rango de 500 de 7000 frutos entre individuos de esta palma. El rendimiento de frutos representa aproximadamente unos 700 kg/ha por cada dos aos. Caractersticas de la palma tales como la altura mxima, el dimetro del tronco a la altura del pecho (dap) y el nmero de hojas, son pobres pronsticos de la produccin de frutos por palma. Finalmente, se hace un anlisis de la historia reproductiva de individuos de la palma y se presentan argumentos sobre el potencial econmico de la palma ungurahua y las implicaciones de una excesiva cosecha. 
4251851|In 1937 the annual maximum of 175 million pounds of this valuable drying oil was imported from China into the United States, and by 1946 constantly increasing domestic production of the oil rose to a little more than 15 million pounds that year.
4256930| Three varieties of prickly pear Opuntia ficus-indica (Villanueva, Copena, and Jalpa varieties) were evaluated in their capacity to be host of the cochineal insect (Dactylopius coccus Costa) in two localities of northeastern Mexico. The experiment was carried out for two seasons, winter and summer, in 1998. Variables under evaluation were: fresh weight of grana, dry weight of grana, and number of insects. The Villanueva variety showed the highest production for the three variables and there were no differences between the other two varieties. Iturbide locality was superior to Linares for the three variables. Higher production (both dry and fresh weight of grana) was obtained during winter and there were no differences between seasons for number of insects. Figures obtained for the Villanueva variety are slightly higher than those reported in literature for the most productive cochineal areas in Mexico. /// Se evalu la capacidad de tres variedades de nopal Opuntia ficus-indica (Villanueva, Copena y Jalpa) como hospederos de la cochinilla (Dactylopius coccus Costa) en dos localidades del noreste de Mxico. El experimento se llev al cabo en dos estaciones del ao: invierno y verano, en 1998. Las variables evaluadas fueron: peso fresco de grana, peso seco de grana y nmero de insectos. La variedad Villanueva mostr la mayor produccin para las tres variables evaluadas y no se presentaron diferencias entre las otras dos variedades. La localidad Iturbide present rendimientos superiores a la localidad Linares para las tres variables. La poca de invierno present mayor produccin de peso fresco y peso seco de grana que la poca de agosto, mientras que para nmero de insectos, no se registraron diferencias entre ambas. Los rendimientos obtenidos para la variedad Villanueva fueron ligeramente superiores que los reportados en literatura para las zonas ms productivas de grana en Mxico. 
4256025| Oviedo's sixteenth century reports from the New World, relating the characteristics, uses, cultivation and geographical distribution Cocos nucifera, are analyzed in terms of their veracity and implications for the evolution of this highly important economic species. The presence of coconut on the Pacific coasts of Costa Rica, Panama, and Colombia is supported by the documentary evidence. The variability reported suggests a gene pool which includes the "wild" and "domesticated" morphotypes in populations similar to those distributed in the South Pacific region. The diffusion to America could have involved a large number of seeds. A close association between coconuts and humans, including a variety of uses and its cultivation is reported in the early sixteenth century literature. Evidence suggests both natural diffusion and diffusion by the intervention of humans. Studies of the genetic diversity in the region will identify valuable genotypes for improvement and conservation. /// Registros de Oviedo en el siglo diez y seis sobre las caractersticas, usos, cultivo y distribucin geogrfica de Cocos nucifera en Amrica, fueron analizados en trminos de su veracidad y de las implicaciones para su proceso evolutivo. Se confirma la presencia del cocotero en las costas occidentales de Costa Rica, Panam y Colombia. La variabilidad reportada indica un acervo gentico que incluye a los morfotipos "silvestre" y "domesticado," en poblaciones similares a las distribuidas en la regin Pacfico sur que es su rea de origen. La difusin hacia Amrica pudo involucrar un alto nmero de propagulos. Se registr una estrecha asociacin entre poblaciones de cocotero y humanas, variedad de usos y su cultivo. Las evidencias indican tanto la posibilidad de su arribo natural como con la ayuda del hombre. Estudios sobre la diversidad gentica en la regin podrn revelar genotipos valiosos para el mejoramiento y la conservacin. 
4254116|In order to have the consumers' preferences in Kenya in beans (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) more clearly outlined and to survey the variation existing in local food bean material, 997 seed samples from plants selected in farmers' fields and from agricultural shows were investigated and classified on the basis of colour, size and shape. For the classification a new number system was used to enable easy data transfer to punch cards. This exercise was primarily carried out to aid in setting the goals for a breeding and selection programme. Of the 997 samples the ten most common types were identified, and among those the Rose cocos occurred most frequently with 36.5%, second were the Canadian wonder types with 13.1%, followed by a Red haricot with 9.2%, Mwezi moja with 9.0% and Mwitemania with 2.4%. The types differed considerably, indicating that consumers' preferences are very flexible. Personal communications lead to the same conclusion. Therefore a breeding and selection programme has, within certain wide limits, allowance to rank characters like disease and drought resistance higher in importance than seed type.
4254371|A collection of 21 preserved tubers of the potato from 4 archaeological sites situated in the Casma Valley of Peru is illustrated and described. The collections from these sites date from the Preceramic Period (2000 B.C.) to the Initial Ceramic Period (1200 B.C.). Identification of the tuber remains was undertaken through a study of their starch grains. Comparative material used for this purpose included other archaeological collections of tuber remains from the sites of Chilca and Pachacamac, as well as the fresh and dried tubers of modern-day wild and cultivated potato species.
4252174|Soon after discovery of Ptelea trifoliata in colonial America, this attractive aromatic shrub became popular in Old World botanical gardens. First medical indications as anthelmintic and vulnerary, by Schoepf in 1787, were extended in nineteenth-century homoeopathic literature to include alleged usefulness as a febrifuge, tonic, and in treatment of numerous chronic conditions. Presence of berberine, or other substances reported by early workers, has not been confirmed.
4256575|A description is given of the Eden Project in Cornwall, UK. The Project's purpose is to demonstrate the importance of plants to people and to promote sustainable use of plant resources. Located in a former china clay quarry, the Project has restored the landscape and built two indoor biomes under large geodesic structures: a five acre rainforest and a one acre warm temperate biome. The plantings are heavily focussed on useful plants of economic and ethnobotanical interest. The stories of many plants are also interpreted through a wide range of contemporary works of art. Eden has developed a dynamic education program at all levels from schools to Ph.D. and for adults. It has also built up a small science program with partnerships with various organisations especially in the developing world. The Project is not a conventional botanic garden, but rather a showcase for economic botany and ethnobotany. It has received two million visitors during its first year of operation.
4256249| Four environments with contrasting potential for agricultural productivity and infrastructure development were identified in Guanajuato State, Mexico, to test hypotheses about the relationship of maize biological diversity to the region's potential for agricultural productivity and infrastructure development. Samples of all types of maize grown by a random sample of farmers were collected from each environment. Landraces were the dominant maize class in all four environments; the use of improved varieties was negligible. Several diversity indices were calculated, and no statistically significant differences were apparent between the environments with the most contrasting agroecological and infrastructural conditions. Statistical differences in diversity are apparent when the development of infrastructure interacts with agroecological factors in an environment. Qualitative data suggest that the richness of maize populations may be associated with maize yield potential in a geographical area, whereas the evenness of maize populations may be associated with the presence of infrastructure. These findings suggest further hypotheses about regional patterns of maize diversity. / Este estudio examina la relacin entre la diversidad biolgica del maz presente en una regin con su potencial de productividad agrcola y el grado de desarrollo de su infraestructura. Con el propsito de poner a prueba ciertas hiptesis acerca de esta relacin, se identificaron cuatro ambientes con caractersticas contrastantes de productividad potencial e infraestructura en el sureste del estado de Guanajuato, Mxico. En cada uno de estos ambientes, se colectaron muestras de maz de todas las variedades sembradas por una muestra aleatoria de agricultores. Las variedades criollas fueron dominantes en los cuatro ambientes, y el uso de variedades mejoradas es muy limitado. Varios ndices de diversidad fueron calculados con los datos recabados. No se encontraron diferencias estadsticamente significativas entre los ambientes ms contrastantes en ninguno de los ndices de diversidad. Sin embargo, si se encontraron para un ambiente, donde el desarrollo de la infrastructura y el potencial productivo parecen interactuar. El patrn en los datos cualitativos sugiere que la riqueza de las poblaciones de maz puede estar asociada con el potencial productivo de un rea, mientras que la equidad en la distribucin de las muestras parece estarlo con la presencia de infraestructura. Los resultados de este estudio sugieren algunas hiptesis sobre los patrones regionales de la diversidad biolgica del maz. 
4256207| A study of the traditional gathered food plants in the upper valley of the Serchio river (Garfagnana), Lucca Province, north-west Tuscany, central Italy, was carried out. One hundred thirty-three species (including fungi), belonging to 48 families, were encountered. The geographical isolation of the valley and the survival of old gastronomic traditions have permitted a rich popular knowledge to be maintained. In particular, the tradition of preparing in springtime a characteristic vegetal soup (minestrella) based on about forty wild vegetables in a very restricted area of the valley might be correlated with influences of pre-Roman civilisations. An uncommon specific food utilization of Bryonia dioica and Prunus laurocerasus as well as the consumption in some districts of Fagus sylvatica seeds, Taxus baccata and Crocus napolitanus fruits as snacks and the very common use of Clematis vitalba shoots seem to demonstrate a well established tradition to use unpalatable vegetal sources. Ethnopharmacological aspects of the consumption of these species are discussed. /// E' stato effettuato uno studio sulla raccolta tradizionale di piante ad uso alimentare nella parte superiore della valle del Serchio (Garfagnana), Provincia di Lucca, Toscana nord-occidentale, Italia centrale. 133 specie (inclusi funghi), appartenenti a 48 famiglie, sono state censite. L'isolamento geografico della valle e la sopravvivenza di vecchie tradizioni gastronomiche hanno permesso ad una ricca conoscenza popolare di mantenersi inalterata fino ai nostri giorni. In particolare, la tradizione della preparazione in primavera di una caratteristica zuppa vegetale (minestrella) basata talvolta su pi di quaranta specie spontanee in un'aerea molto ristretta della valle potrebbe essere messa in relazione ad influenze di civilt pre-romane in quel territorio. L'utilizzazione alimentare non comune di Bryonia dioica e Prunus laurocerasus cos come il consumo di semi di Fagus sylvatica, di frutti di Taxus baccata e Crocus napolitanus come snack e l'uso molto comune di giovani parti aeree di Clematis vitalba sembrano dimostrare una consolidata tradizione ad usare fonti vegetali non palatabili. Aspetti etnofarmacologici legati al consumo di queste specie vengono discussi. 
4255564| This article presents the results of an investigation concerning the use of medicinal plants by the people of Nicaragua's Atlantic Coast. Participant observation during parts of the years 1986-1991 was complemented by a five-community, 809-household survey in 1990 and a ten-community botanical collection in 1991. This research is the first to attempt to document the diversity and prevalence of medicinal plant use for this region. The appendix lists 152 plants, along with common names, number and ethnicity of informants, and medicinal uses. / Este articulo presenta los resultados de una encuesta sobre plantas medicinales utilizadas por las personas de la Costa Atlntica de Nicaragua. Observacin participativa realiz durante parte de los aos 1986 al 1991 fue complementada en 1990 con una encuesta a 809 hogares cubriendo cinco comunidades. Adems, en 1991 se realiz una recoleccin botanica en diez comunidades de la regin. Esta investigacin es el primer esfuerzo por documentar la diversidad y prevalencia del uso de plantas medicinales en esta regin. El anexo proporciona una lista de 152 plantas con sus nombres comunes, su uso mdico, y el nmero y etnicidad de los informantes. 
4254802|Previously, the USDA Northern Regional Research Center has examined 600 plant species in 88 families for their multipurpose, energy-producing potential. About three-fourths of these species have been from central and southern Illinois, but only about 2% have been from arid or semiarid regions of the United States. For this report, 100 species collected from Arizona were evaluated, bringing the total number of species evaluated at this Center to 700 in 96 families. Plant specimens were analyzed for yields of fractions referred to as "oil," "polyphenol," "hydrocarbon," and protein and were examined for botanical characteristics. Oil and hydrocarbon fractions of selected species were partially characterized. Ten species gave high yields of oil and/or polyphenol. For example, Asclepias linaria yielded 8.7% oil (dry, ash-free sample basis) + 11.7% polyphenol (1.9% hydrocarbon). Rhus choriophylla yielded 7.0% oil + 20% polyphenol (0.4% hydrocarbon) and Juglans major yielded 7.0% oil + 9.4% polyphenol (0.2% hydrocarbon). Pittosporum tobira gave the highest yield of hydrocarbon (2.3%). Fourteen species contained at least 18% protein. In general, the percentages of species yielding substantial amounts of oil and/or polyphenol were considerably higher for the Arizona species than for those 600 species previously analyzed. Complete analytical data are presented for 38 species and are discussed in relationship to the 600 species previously reported.
4256395| Collaborative plant breeding is an approach to crop improvement that includes close attention to specific adaptation and interaction between farmers and formal plant breeders to better meet the needs of those farmers. Collegial interaction capable of making best use of the knowledge and skills of farmers and breeders will depend upon an understanding of those in terms that are relevant to each. To facilitate this interaction with the goal of making farmer selection practices more effective, the work described here sought to improve outside researchers' understanding of farmers' fundamental perceptions about their populations, growing environments, and expectations for response to selection. Various methods were used to accomplish this with a small sample of maize farmers in two communities in the Central Valleys of Oaxaca, Mexico. Farmers' decisions about maize varietal type repertoires imply assessments based on genetic and environmental variation in the local context. A clear distinction was made between traits of high and low heritability and expected response to selection, however, some traits of interest to farmers such as large seed size may involve considerations other than their potential for expression in the progeny generation. /// El fitomejoramiento colaborativo es una forma de mejora de las plantas, que presta especial atencin, a la adaptacin especfica y la interaccin entre agricultores y fitomejoradores para un mejor respuesta a las necesidades de los primeros. Lo que facilita la interaccin entre agricultores y fitomejoradores, pretendiendo que la seleccin de los agricultores sea mas eficiente. El trabajo describe una via para el mejor entendimiento de los investigadores en relacin a las percepciones fundamentales de los agricultores respecto a sus poblaciones cultivadas, sus ambientes de cultivo y sus expectativas en relacin con la respuesta a la seleccin. Varios mtodos fueron aplicados a una pequea muestra de agricultores en dos comunidades en los Valles Centrales de Oaxaca, Mexico. La decisin de los agricultores de escoger sus variedades esta basada en la variacin gentica y ambiental a nivel local. Una clara distincin fue hecha por los agricultores entre los caracteres de alta y baja heredabilidad as como la respuesta a la seleccin; pero, los resultados sugieren que algunos caracteres de inters para los agricultores como el tamao del grano son importantes como criterio de seleccin, aun cuando no lo asocian con un efecto gentico. 
41242887|We test the hypothesis that the agrobiodiversity associated with homegardens on three different soilsupland Amazonian Dark Earths (ADE) and Oxisols (OX), and Fluvent Entisols (FL)commonly found along the middle Madeira River in the municipality of Manicor, Amazonas State, Brazil, is different due to the contrasting biotic, abiotic, and cultural settings specific to each of these soils. Using data from interviews with 63 farmers about food and utility species, we compare structural and floristic characteristics of homegarden agrobiodiversity. The density of individuals is higher on ADE than on the other soils (mean  standard deviation: 715  363 on ADE, 474  283 on OX, 642  399 on FL). ADE and OX have higher species richness (28.2  5.6 on ADE, 25  3.7on OX, 23.6  5 on FL), while ADE and FL have a greater degree of domestication (2  0.6 on ADE, 1.3  0.5 on OX, 2.3  0.6 on FL). ADE and OX have greater proportions of richness, density, and coverage composed of South American species, while FL has greater proportions of richness and density composed of Old World species. ADE has higher proportions of density and coverage of Mesoamerican species. Floristic composition is also different between soils: ADE occupies an intermediate position, composed of species associated with each of the other soil types and species that are most common on ADE. These differences in agrobiodiversity emerge through the interaction of human agency, plant responses, and the unique properties of soils in relation to socioeconomic and historical trajectories over time. Ns testamos a hiptese de que a agrobiodiversidade associada a quintais em trs diferentes tipos de solosolos antrpicos (ADE), latossolos (OX) na terra firme, e gleissolos de vrzea (FL)comumente encontrados ao longo do mdio Rio Madeira no municpio de Manicor, Amazonas, Brasil,  diferente devido s caractersticas biticas, abiticas e culturais especficas de cada um desses solos. Utilizando dados de entrevistas com 63 agricultores sobre espcies comestveis e teis ns comparamos caractersticas florsticas e estruturais da agrobiodiversidade de quintais agroflorestais. A densidade de indivduos  maior em ADE do que em outros tipos de solo (mdia  desvio padro: 715  363 em ADE, 474  283 em OX, 642  399 em FL). ADE e OX possuem maior riqueza de espcies (28.2  5.6 em ADE, 25  3.7em OX, 23.6  5 em FL), enquanto ADE e FL possuem um maior grau de domesticao (2  0.6 em ADE, 1.3  0.5 em OX, 2.3  0.6 em FL). ADE e OX tm maiores propores de riqueza, densidade e cobertura compostas de espcies Sul-Americanas, enquanto FL tm maiores propores de riqueza e densidade compostas de espcies do Velho Mundo. ADE possui maiores propores de densidade e cobertura de espcies Mesoamericanas. A composio floristica tambm  diferente entre os tipos de solo: ADE ocupa uma posio intermediria, composta por espcies associadas a cada um dos outros tipos de solo e espcies que so mais comuns em ADE. Essas diferenas na agrobiodiversidade emergem a partir da interao entre ao humana, respostas das plantas e propriedades dos solos em relao s trajetrias scioeconmicas e histricas ao longo do tempo.
4252585|The red mangrove is one of the principal features of the coastal vegetation throughout tropical America, Mexico, the West Indies, the Bahamas, Bermuda and southern Florida. It is of primary importance as a land retainer and builder. Secondarily, its bark is a source of tannin and yields resins suitable for plywood adhesive. Mangrove wood is heavy and durable. The bark, leaves and shoots furnish various dyes and the bark is an excellent fuel and is much used locally for medicinal purposes. In southern Florida there has been active interest in the value of mangrove leaf meal as cattle feed, the dried and ground leaves have been sold as "Maritime Tea" and prepared in tablet form as a dietary supplement. The leaf meal and the sawdust have been tested as soil conditioners. Despite their high tannin content, red mangrove leaves may warrant investigation as an abundant source of protein.
4255388|Avena macrostachya Bal. ex Coss. et Dur. is narrowly endemic to two mountain chains in northeastern Algeria, the Aures and the Djurdjura, where it is found at high altitudes. It is taxonomically isolated within the genus, showing a number of primitive features, including perennial habit. There is interest in the possibility of gene exchange with cultivated oats, particularly as regards tolerance of low temperatures, but the availability of germplasm was limited to material from one site. The first systematic attempt to collect germplasm of the species throughout its range was made recently, during which observations were also made on its ecology and conservation status. Avena macrostachya seems to require open conditions above about 1300-1400 m in the Mediterranean region of Algeria. For the first time, germplasm was collected in the Aures, an area where the species seems to be rare and decreasing.
4252047|In pre-Columbian times sweet potatoes provided food for the widely separated Mayans of Central America, the Incas of Peru and the Maoris of New Zealand, while two other species of the genus were occasionally used by Indians of western North America.
4251883|Dependence of the United States upon foreign sources of Belladonna, Henbane, Stramonium, Digitalis, Ergot, Pyrethrum, Rotenone and numerous other plant products has stimulated attempts to produce the necessary crops domestically.
4254706|Minor forest products such as rattan and Manila copal have long been an important source of cash income for indigenous forest collectors in Southeast Asia. Focusing on the Tagbanua of Palawan Island in the Philippines, the history and economic significance of forest collecting in the region are described. The paper also documents the growing scarcity of forest products in Palawan and discusses several policy options intended to help preserve rattan and copal resources.
4255258| In Zaire the distribution of four of the wild species in the genus Psophocarpus ranges from humid, evergreen, Guinea-Congolian rainforests to high altitude woodlands, dry semi-deciduous forests, and savanna. Material of Psophocarpus scandens, P. grandiflorus, P. lancifolius, P. lecomtei, and P. lancifolius (yellow-seeded form) were collected from wild and naturalized populations in Zaire. Various organs of P. scandens, P. grandiflorus, and P. lancifolius are used as food sources, medicinals, and as sources of tannins. Psophocarpus lancifolius and P. lecomtei have reportedly been used as a food source and fish poison, respectively. The various organs were analyzed for carbohydrate, lipid, N, S, P, K, Mg, Ca, Na, Fe, Al, Mn, B, Cu, and Zn. In their own right, these species have potential for wider use as food sources and genetic material for improvement breeding with the cultivated winged bean. Local names, phenological notes, presence of pests and diseases, and ecogeographical information are presented. Au Zare la distribution de quatre espces sauvages du genre Psophocarpus va des forts tropicales humides et chaudes des plaines de la Guine-Congo aux bois de haute altitude, aux forts sches d'arbres caducs et  la savane. Des lments de Psophocarpus scandens, P. grandiflorus, P. lancifolius, P. lecomtei, et P. lancifolius ( semence jaune) ont t rcolts dans la population de la brousse et des villes au Zare. Divers organes de P. scandens, P. grandiflorus, et de P. lancifolius sont source de nourriture, de remdes mdicinaux et de tannins. Il a t rapport que le Psophocarpus lancifolius et le P. lecomtei sont  la fois source de nourriture et de poison de poisson. Les divers organes ont t analyss pour leur teneur en lipids, glucides, N (proteines), S, P, K, Mg, Ca, Na, Fe, Al, Mn, B, Cu, et Zn. Chacune de ces espces pourrait devenir source de nourriture et lment gntique pour amliorer la reproduction du pois carr africain cultiv. Les noms locaux, des notes phnologiques, les problmes ds aux insectes nuisibles et aux maladies, et des renseignements cogographiques sont aussi prsents ici. 
4253921|Agricultural production of rubber and other hydrocarbons in the United States may be compatible with increased food and fiber production if entire plants are harvested and processed for fiber, protein, and carbohydrate as well. Thus, procedures and criteria have been established for the preliminary evaluation of plant species as potential multi-use hydrocarbon-producing crops. Previously, 106 species representing 44 families and 81 genera were evaluated. Now an additional 100 species representing 13 additional families and 60 additional genera have been evaluated, and some of these species also offer promise as future crops. Several Labiatae are high in natural rubber (NR) content; Pycnanthemum incanum (Mountain Mint) and Teucrium canadense (American Germander) were evaluated as promising species. Three Compositae, Cacalia atriplicifolia (Pale Indian-Plant), Solidago graminifolia (Grass-leafed Goldenrod), and Solidago rigida (Stiff Goldenrod) were also evaluated as promising species for NR. Campanula americana (Tall Bellflower, Campanulaceae) has potential as a source of both oil and NR. Euphorbia dentata (Euphorbiaceae) does not produce NR but is very high in protein and oil contents. Sassafras albidum (Sassafras, Lauraceae) is of interest for its rapid growth rate in combination with a high oil content. A few other species offer some promise.
4254680|Preserved rhizomes of Canna edulis from 5 archaeological sites in the Casma Valley of Peru are illustrated and described. These were identified by their extant surface features and by their starch grains, which are different from those of any other known flowering plant species. Based on radiocarbon assays, these specimens range in date from 2250-295 B.C. Materials used for comparative purposes in this study included a collection of edible canna from the Peruvian archaeological site of Pachacamac and a modern-day specimen. A theory on the place of origin and time of domestication of this species is given in the conclusions of this paper.
40686809|Spondias tuberosa, or umbu, is an arboreal species that is important both as an alternative economic and subsistence resource for rural communities in the semi-arid, northeastern regions of Brazil. The aim of this work was to study the knowledge, uses, local gathering practices, and management systems of S. tuberosa that are part of the traditions of the communities in this region. An ethnobotanical survey was conducted in two stages in a rural community in the state of Pernambuco. In the first stage, all of the dwellings were visited and both the men and the women who were responsible for their house were interviewed. In the second stage, people who were identified as having a direct relationship with the resource were questioned more thoroughly about the species. Knowledge of S. tuberosa is equally distributed in the community; there are no significant differences in knowledge between men and women, or across age groups. The food category is the most important for both human and animal nourishment. The main forms of local management are tolerance and gathering of fruit. Fruit gathering is directly affected by, in order of importance, taste (sweet-sour), size, and quantity of fruit pulp. The usefulness of S. tuberosa contributes considerably to the tolerance of this species in both managed areas and as part of the native vegetation. Spondias tuberosa, ou Umbu,  uma espcie arbrea que  uma importante alternativa econmica e recurso de subsistncia para comunidades rurais no semi-rido do nordeste brasileiro. O objetivo deste trabalho foi estudar o conhecimento, o uso, as prticas locais de coleta, e os sistemas de manejo de S. tuberosa. Foi conduzido um levantamento etnobotnico, em duas etapas, em uma comunidade rural no estado de Pernambuco. Na primeira etapa, todas as pessoas residentes na comunidade foram visitadas entrevistando-se os responsveis pela casa, homens ou mulheres. Na segunda etapa, identificaram-se as pessoas que tm um contato mais direto com o recurso estudado, que foram questionadas com perguntas mais detalhadas sobre a espcie. O conhecimento de S. tuberosa  igualmente distribudo na comunidade; no h diferenas significativas entre o conhecimento de homens e mulheres. A categoria alimento foi considerada a mais importante neste estudo. As principais formais de manejo local so a tolerncia e a coleta de frutos. A coleta dos frutos  diretamente afetada, por ordem de importncia, pelo sabor, tamanho, e quantidade da polpa do fruto. A utilizao da espcie contribui consideravelmente para a sua tolerncia em reas manejadas e como parte da vegetao nativa.
40390481|More than 200 species of wild edible mushrooms are consumed in Mexico, and over 100 are sold in local, regional, and wholesale markets. This paper analyzes general trends in the commercialization of wild edible mushrooms at twelve markets in central Mexico, where at least 90 species are sold and more than 100 local names were registered. The paper then focuses its analysis on the traditional market at Ozumba (state of Mexico) near Izta-Popo and Zoquiapan national parks. In 2006,411 stands selling more than 60 mushroom species were sampled throughout the year to record information on the vendors and the species they sold. The greatest diversity of species was recorded in July and August. More than 90% of the wild mushroom vendors were women, and 64% were 40 to 60 years old. The economic value of wild mushrooms in some regions of Mexico appears to contribute to the maintenance of traditional ethnobiological knowledge, generally observed to be in overall decline. /// En Mxico, ms de 200 especies de hongos comestibles silvestres son consumidas, de las cuales ms de 100 son comercializadas en mercados locales, regionales y de mayoristas. El presente artculo analiza las tendencias gnrales en la comercializacin de los hongos silvestres comestibles en doce mercados de la parte Central de Mxico, donde al menos 90 especies son comercializadas y se registraron ms de 100 nombres comunes. Posteriormente el artfculo enfoca su anlisis en el mercado tradicional de Ozumba, estado de Mxico cerca de los parques nacionales Izta-Popo y Zoquiapan. Con la finalidad de registrar informacin relacionada con los vendedores y las especies en venta, en 2006, se muestrearon 411 puestos los cuales comercializaron ms de 60 especies de hongos a lo largo del ao. La mayor diversidad de especies se registr en Julio y Agosto. Ms del 90% de las vendedoras fueron mujeres y 64% tenan entre 40 y 60 aos de edad. A pesar de la gran relevancia ecolgica y cultural de los hongos silvestres comestibles en Mxico, el conocimiento tradicional ancestral relacionado con los hongos parece estar declinando en trminos generales. Sin embargo, la importancia econmica de los hongos comestibles en algunas regiones contribuye para el mantenimiento de estos conocimientos ancestrales.
4253814|Ethnobotanical observations made in 4 weeks during the summer of 1970 are reported. Cooperation of a number of students participating in a University of Alabama summer class made the collection of information more complete, because the students lived in Ticul where many of the observations were made. Cultivation in this part of Yucatan is easily divided into the staple crops, corn, beans, squash, sometimes chili, jicama or sweet potato, grown in milpas and fruits and herbs grown in dooryard gardens. Milpas are usually cultivated for no more than two seasons before they are moved to a new area which has been fallowed for 7 to 10 years. This allows recovery of soil fertility in the very thin soils of the area. Dooryard gardens furnish items for the kitchen and, frequently, a surplus which can be sold for cash. Ticul market is the retail market of the area where both permanent and casual vendors sell produce and other items. The butchers and some of the vegetable and fruit vendors rent the same stall daily while many rural householders with only a small surplus sell a few items during Sunday market from a cloth spread on the ground. The local government fixes stall rental, settles disputes and assumes responsibility for market sanitation. Oxkutxcab market is a wholesale market, reportedly for the whole southern half of Yucatan. The butcher and a very few stall holders sell retail. Produce is largely offered by the basin, burlap bag or other quantity, but never by a single piece. Fruit was the principle commodity during the period of observation. Local government exercises the same control for the Oxkutxcab market as the Ticul government does. Commercial production in the area includes hennequen plantations, many of which are now abandoned, and fruit orchards. Among the local industries involving plant material are manufacturers of rope from hennequen fiber and hats from guano (Sabal mayarum) leaves.
4287992|The toxic plant, Glottidium vesicarium, has been investigated for the presence of various constituents, and the isolation of three phytochemical constituents from the mature seeds has been described.
4253855|Aframomum melegueta, the source of the peppery spice, melegueta, is shown to be a cultivated plant in Ghana. It is grown in temporary clearings in forest, mixed with other crops. The cultivation, economy, and biology of the crop are described. The plant appears to have been cultivated for many years, but has declined from its former importance firstly because of competition from cocoa, and secondly because of export restrictions during World War I. Other species of Aframomum, which have either been confused with A. melegueta, or which are used elsewhere in Africa, are described. Some suggestions for crop improvement are made.
4255618|Conversion of mangrove forests for fish and shrimp ponds has been occurring in South Sulawesi, Indonesia for more than half a century. In some communities virtually all mangrove forest has been removed and subsequent environmental consequences have been encountered, including flooding and coastal erosion. One group of communities has countered negative environmental impacts, while at the same time increasing their incomes, through development of a mangrove agroforestry system. Monocultural plantings of Rhizophora mucronata Lam. in blocks along the coast have mitigated erosion and reduced flooding, protecting fish and shrimp ponds located inland. Controlled harvesting of the planted trees has produced sizeable incomes through fuelwood sales.
4255571| Artificial crossing experiments were made with three taxa of Ocimum. Plants of O. forskolei Benth. and O. basilicum L. var. purpurascens Benth. were found to be interfertile, but O. americanum L. var. pilosum (Willd.) Paton was found to be reproductively isolated from the other two taxa. The new chromosome number 2n = 48 was counted in O. forskolei. These results suggest that O. forskolei might be the closest relative of the Sweet Basil. The origin of the Sweet Basil is also discussed. / Foram feitas experincias de cruzamento artificial com trs taxas de Ocimum. Plantas de O. forskolei Benth. e O. basilicum L. var. purpurascens Benth. eram inter-frteis, mas O. americanum L. var pilosum (Willd.) Paton era reproductivamente isolada das outras duas taxas. Apresenta-se o nmero cromossmico 2n = 48 de O. forskolei pela primera vez. Estes resultados sugerem que O. forskolei pode ser o relativo mais prximo do Manjerico-Grande. Discute-se tambm a orginem do Manjerico-Grande. 
4255337| Extracts of Phyllanthus amarus (Euphorbiaceae) are known to reduce or eliminate detectable hepatitis B virus surface antigen in humans or surface antigen of woodchuck hepatitis virus in woodchucks. The objectives of the experiments in this paper were to evaluate the in vitro inhibition of viral DNA polymerase (DNAp) among (1) different species of Phyllanthus; (2) within the most promising species; and (3) to evaluate differences in activity that might be correlated with environmental effects. The ultimate goal of our studies is to develop a system for producing high quality plants for large scale extraction. Inhibitory activity varied significantly among species. In P. urinaria there were also significant differences among intraspecific accessions. Accessions of P. amarus from various locations did not differ significantly. Experiments with one seedlot showed highly significant plant-to-plant differences in anti-viral activity, but clear-cut heritable differences were not established among progeny of the plants at extremes in the distribution. Differences in general soil fertility, soil moisture, pH or Ca generally did not significantly affect inhibition of viral DNAp but temperature differences did. Except for temperature, the detectable environmental effects were generally less than the size of the genetic differences among species. P. amarus was successfully grown as a row crop with inputs of fertilizer and irrigation and showed no loss of activity when compared to samples from the wild. Thus, once an accession of Phyllanthus with potent inhibition of viral DNAp is identified, it can be grown under cultivated conditions for extraction without a loss of activity. /// Extractos de Phyllanthus amarus (Euforbiaceae), reducieron o eliminaron los antigenos superficiales del virus hepatitis B en humanos o los antigenos superficiales de virus de la hepatitis de marmota en marmotas. Los objetivos de los experimentos descriptos en sta comunicacin son: evaluar por una medida de la actividad antiviral, la inhibicin in vitro de la polimerasa viral DNA dependiente (DNAp), (1) la existencia de diferencias entre especies de Phyllanthus, (2) dentro de las especies ms potentes, o (3) debidas a efectos ambientales. El objetivo ultimo de estos estudios era l de desarrollar un sistema para producir plantas de alta calidad para la extraccin en gran escala. Dicha inhibicin es variable entre las especies probadas del gnero y, en un ensayo, entre varias lineas de P. urinaria. Lineas de P. amarus derivadas de semillas de varias localidades no mostraron diferencias en la inhibicin del DNAp viral. Un ensayo usando semillas de una localidad exclusivamente, mostr diferencias al nivel de P = 0.01 en la actividad antiviral entre plantas individuales pero estas diferencias no fueron muy heredables en los proles de la plantas ms extremas de la distribucin. Ensayos para probar diferentes condiciones en el suelo, como por ejemplo fertilidad general, humedad del suelo, pH o nivel de Ca, por lo general no mostraron un efecto significativo sobre la inhibicin del DNAp viral, sino la temperatura ambiental, s. Cuando existieron efectos ambientales significativos, fueron menores que los efectos genticos vistos en los otros experimentos, con la excepcin del efecto de temperatura. Plantas de P. amarus de buena calidad fueron obtenidas sembradas en hileras y usando abono y riego por goteo. Estas plantas cultivadas no perdieron su actividad contra el DNAp viral al compararlas con extractos de plantas silvestres. Por lo tanto, una vez que se identifica una linea de Phyllanthus caracterizada por inhibicin potente, se puede sembrar bajo condiciones del cultivo sin perder la actividad. 
4256177| The proximate composition and biological activity of food plants and mushrooms gathered by Chilean Amerindians were assessed. The gathered plants served primarily as sources of carbohydrates with highest values for Dioscorea tubers, Prosopis alba pods meal and Bromus catharticus seeds. The mushrooms Clavaria coralloides and Boletus loyus proved to be the best protein sources in our survey, but deficient in the amino acids methionine and cysteine. Some extracts of the plants and mushrooms under study showed biological activity as free radical scavengers, enzyme inhibitors, hypotensive or DNA binding effect. Free radical scavenging activity was detected in Cryptocarya alba fruit extract, while Typha angustifolia showed a strong DNA binding effect at 0.50 mg/ml. Methanolic extracts of the Apiaceae species Sanicula graveolens and Apium australe were moderately active as -glucuronidase inhibitors at 50 g/ml. /// Se determin la composicin proximal y la actividad biolgica de plantas y hongos alimenticios recolectados por amerindios de Chile. Las plantas colectadas fueron en conjunto una fuente de carbohidratos, con valores mayores en los tubrculos de Dioscorea, la harina de frutos de Prosopis alba y los frutos de Bromus catharticus. Los hongos Clavaria coralloides y Boletus loyus resultaron ser las mejores fuentes proteicas de este estudio, siendo ambos, sin embargo, deficitarios en los aminocidos esenciales metionina y cistena. Algunos extractos de las plantas y hongos en estudio mostraron actividad biolgica como atrapadores de radicales libres, inhibidores enzimticos, efecto hipotensor o unin al ADN. Se detect actividad atrapadora de radicales libres en el extracto de frutos de Cryptocarya alba, as como un fuerte efecto de unin al ADN del extracto de Typha angustifolia a 0.50 mg/ml. Extractos metanlicos de las Apiaceae Sanicula graveolens y Apium australe fueron moderadamente activos como inhibidores de la enzima -glucuronidasa a 50 g/ml. 
4254726|Native to the East Indies, commonly grown in India, casually planted for shade and ornament throughout the tropics, the Indian, or tropical, almond (Terminalia catappa) is still not fully appreciated nor utilized as a multipurpose tree. Fast-growing, to 80 ft, the tree flourishes with little or no care, exposed to coastal winds and salt spray. It furnishes timber of excellent quality, bark suitable for tanning, and dyes from both wood and bark. The seed kernel is delicious and wholesome without processing, though the bulk of the abundant crop is wasted through ignorance of an easy mode of extraction and lack of selection and propagation and promotion of strains with large kernels.
4255426| Yucca elata and Hesperaloe funifera posses long, thin fibers that have potential for making specialty papers. The objective of this study is to examine patterns of intraspecific variation in fiber properties in these two species. In Yucca elata most of the variation in fiber length is found within populations where fiber length is highly correlated with leaf length. In contrast, in Hesperaloe funifera there is significant variation between populations and random variation in fiber lengths within most populations. Within-plant variation in Hesperaloe was also examined. Fiber length does not vary between leaves of different ages but does vary within leaves. Fibers from the base of the leaf are shorter and wider than those from the middle and distal sections; fibers from distal sections are narrowest. /// Yucca elata y Hesperaloe funifera poseen fibras largas y delgadas que tienen potencial en la fabricacin de papeles especiales. El objetivo de este trabajo ha sido estudiar los patrones de variacin intraespecfica en las propiedades de las fibras de estas dos especies. En Yucca elata la mayor parte de la variacin se encuentra dentro de poblaciones en las que la longitud de fibras est altamente correlacionada con el largo de las hojas. Contrariamente, en Hesperaloe funifera hay una variacin significativa entre poblaciones y una variacin al azar en el largo de fibras dentro de la mayora de las poblaciones. La variacion dentro de una misma planta tambin fue estudiada en Hesperaloe. El largo de fibra no vara entre hojas de distintas edades pero si vara dentro de una misma hoja. Las fibras ubicadas en la base de la hoja son mas cortas y mas anchas que las de las secciones media y distal; las fibras de las secciones distales son las mas angostas. 
4255420| In the coniferous forest dominated landscape of northwestern British Columbia, bark products were used to fill many needs which in less heavily forested environments were filled by herbaceous plants. Bark from woody shrubs and trees was used for carbohydrate food, medicine, fiber, and structural material. Use of the bark of twenty one species of woody plants is documented for the Gitksan, Wet'suwet'en and Haisla peoples of Northwest British Columbia. Approximately half of the woody species named by these peoples were used for bark resources. Today, most bark derived products have been replaced with manufactured and agricultural products. /// En los bosques conferos del Noroeste de la C B, los productos de corteza de rboles y arbustos se usaban para satisfacer necesidades que en medios ambientes menos boscosos se obtenan de plantas herbceas. La corteza de los rboles y arbustos fue usada para alimentos carbohidratos, fibra, en medicina y en materiales de construccin. Los usos de la corteza de rbol de veintin especies leosas es documentado por los Gitksan, los Wet'suwet'en y los Haisla de la C B. Aproximadamente la mitad de las especies leosas nombradas por esta gente fueron usadas como los recursos de la corteza. Hoy da la mayora de los productos deribados de la corteza han sido reemplazados por productos agrcolas y manufacturados. 
4253400|Bristlecone pine has been called the world's oldest known living thing. The tree grows in mountainous terrain near timberline in three southwestern states. Because of the species' longevity, sensitivity to climatic fluctuations, and unique growth form, it has attracted considerable attention from both scientists and recreationists. This paper discusses bristlecone pine in relation to its environment in east-central Nevada and sets forth criteria for recognizing trees that may be old or sensitive to climatic changes.
40390475|For most of the 20th century, wild mushrooms on national forests in the United States fell under a de facto open-access management regime. As consumer demand for wild mushrooms increased, a nation-state wild mushroom management regime based on the use of disciplinary power emerged on many national forests in the Pacific Northwest region. Data from an ethnographic study conducted during the late 1990s illustrate how the simultaneous application of three core surveillance technologiescategorization, monitoring, and tracking, and the creation of a panopticon surveillance systemenabled the Forest Service to enforce nation-state claims to wild mushrooms. The data indicate that many pickers are unsupportive of the new regulatory system because it has transformed what was once their living space into a working place. Pickers also point out that the system does little to protect or enhance the growth of wild mushrooms. The study supports conclusions from previous studies that disciplinary power techniques play a critical role in the capacity of modern states to extend their control over mobile populations and natural resources.
4257017| Data from carbonized wood remains from five late prehistoric sites (A.D. 1300-1530) in the Upper Mantaro Valley, Peru, are presented. The wood assemblage recovered is diverse. We illustrate and describe the twelve main morpho-types, one of which is more than likely to have been imported from the eastern slopes of the Andean mountains into the Mantaro Valley. The Inka conquest of the area created a change in socio-political power and also brought about a shift in the way wood species were utilized. From the Wanka II to the Inka occupations we find an increase in the Buddleja, Polylepis, Alnus, and Colletia morpho-types; all of these species are reported as being cultivated by the Inka and possibly by pre-Inka inhabitants of the valley. A quantitative analysis shows higher amounts of wood in the elite dwellings of both the Wanka II and Wanka III times, suggesting a social aspect in the way this valuable Andean commodity was distributed and used. /// Fueron analizados los restos de madera provenientes de cinco sitios del perodo prehistrico tardo (1300-1530 d.C.) del Alto Valle Mantaro, Per. La asamblea de maderas era muy variada Ilutramos y describimos las doce categoras taxonmicas prinicipales, una de las cuales probablamente fue importada desde las cuestas orientales de los Andes. La conquista Inkaica de la regin efectu un cambio de nfasis en los morfo- tipos de madera usados, con un aumento de Buddleja, Polylepis, Alnus, y Colletia. Un anlisis cuantitativo muestra una concentracin de maderas en las habitaciones de la clase lite, sugeriendo un aspecto social en el uso de la madera. 
40390588|The Rama are one of the three Amerindian groups of eastern Nicaragua. This is the first systematic study of Rama ethnobotany. A total of 249 plant species, in 190 genera and 78 families, were documented as useful. Included are 190 species used as medicinals, 80 as food plants, and 99 for other uses. The ethnobotanical lore of two distinct indigenous groups, the Rama and Miskitu, were compared. Out of 249 species used by the Rama, 171, or 69%, were used by both groups, and 78 unique species were used by the Rama. These results have important implications for the understanding of ethnobotany as they demonstrate how unrelated indigenous groups sharing the same ecosystem, though separated by some physical distance, can have significantly similar ethnobotanical lore. /// Los Ramas constituyen uno de los tres grupos Amerindios del oriente Nicaragense. Este es el primer studio sistemtico de la etnobotnica Rama. Se document un total de 249 especies de plantas tiles en 190 gneros y 78 familias. Induyendo 190 especies medicinales, 80 especies alimenticias y 99 especies para usos auxiliares. La erudicin etnobotnica de los Ramas y los Miskitus fueron comparados. Un total de 171 de 249 especies documentadas son usados por ambos grupos y 78 especies solo por los Ramas. Estos resultados tienen implicaciones importantes para el entendimiento de la etnobotnica porque demuestran que grupos sin parentesco alguno que comparten el mismo ecosistema aunque separados por cierta distancia pueden tener una similitud significativa en la erudicin etnobotnica.
4256801| Responding to the decline of game, fruit and fiber post-logging, communities along the Capim River in Par, Brazil, requested that research be initiated into the value of non-timber forest products. As a first step, an ethnobotanical inventory of one hectare of mature terra firme forest was conducted. The percentage use-values described reflect that Capimenses are knowledgeable about the use of many species (60% of inventoried species); however, active use has declined. Compared to other South American inventories, Capimenses demonstrate a higher degree of trade in timber, a lack of trade in non-timber products, the decreasing use of plants for technological purposes, and the description of the use of many species in the past tense. During the longitudinal study, the 15 most highly valued fruit, nut, game attracting, and medicinal tree species became included in the suite of species extracted by the timber industry. /// Em resposta  reduo de disponibilidade de caa, frutas e fibras, aps o desmatamento, comunidades situadas ao longo do Rio Capim no Par, Brasil, pediram que pesquisas fossem iniciadas para determinar o valor de produtos teis extrados da mata no so relacionados  industria madeireira. Como primeiro passo, um inventrio etnobotnico de um hectare de floresta madura em terra firme foi realizado. A porcentagem de produtos teis descritos, apontou que os Capimenses conhecem o uso das vrias espcies (60% das espcies inventariadas), porem o uso ativo vem diminuindo. Comparado a outros inventrios feitos na America do Sul, Capimenses mostrarum: um ndice mais alto de comrcio em madeira; a falta de comrcio de produtos no madeireiros; a diminuio da utilizao de plantas para fins tecnolgicos e a declarao de que vrias espcies eram utilizadas no passado. Durante o estudo longitudinal, as 15 mais valorizadas espcies de frutas, nozes, medicinais e atrativas de caa, foram includas na listagem de espcies sendo retiradas pela indstria madeireira 
4252034|At least three million people in the United States suffer from seasonal allergy caused by inhalation of air-borne pollens of many species. Each affected person is a potential ultimate consumer of refined pollen products, and the annual collecting of pollen for this purpose amounts to $80,000 to $100,000 for the collectors.
4252135|The development of a cotton textile industry in Ethiopia based upon increased national production of raw cotton is gradually taking place. The study of the cottons of Ethiopia is a necessary step in the breeding of suitable varieties. Cotton has been grown and used in Ethiopia since ancient times, and hand spinning and weaving is still a well established and widespread craft. One of the Old World species of cotton used may be indigenous. Ethiopia is one of the centers of variability and domestication of several cultivated plants, and it is probable that cotton was also domesticated in this region. This work reviews the available information and indicates the possible place of Ethiopia in the origin and development of the cultivated cottons.
4256811| The extent and structure of the genetic variability of traditional varieties of cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) have been little documented, despite considerable evidence for this crop's great varietal diversity in traditional agroecosystems. We used microsatellite markers to assess the genetic structure of traditional landraces of sweet and bitter cassava collected from five South American sites. As reference, we used a sample of 38 accessions from a world collection of cultivated cassava. For a total of 10 loci examined, we found 15 alleles that were not represented in this sample. Ten of these had been previously detected in wild Manihot species. The geographical structure of genetic variability was weak, but the genetic differentiation between bitter and sweet landraces was significant, suggesting that each form had evolved separately after domestication. Our results showed that traditional landraces form an important source of genetic diversity and merit more attention from managers of crop genetic resources. /// A extenso e a estruturao da variabilidade gentica de variedades tradicionais de mandioca (Manihot esculenta Crantz) tm sido pouco documentadas, apesar de existirem evidncias sugerindo uma grande diversidade varietal desta cultura em agroecosistemas tradicionais. No presente trabalho, foram usados marcadores de DNA, do tipo microssatlite, para avaliar a estrutura gentica de variedades tradicionais de mandioca brava e mandioca de mesa coletadas em cinco localidades da Amrica do Sul. Como referncia, usou-se um conjunto de 38 acessos de uma coleo mundial de germoplasma de mandioca. Entre as variedades tradicionais, foram encontrados 15 alelos que no estavam presentes nesta amostragem da coleo mundial. Dez destes alelos j haviam sido detectados em espcies silvestres de Manihot. Apenas uma leve estruturao geogrfica da variabilidade foi observada. No entanto, foi evidenciada uma diferenciao gentica entre variedades bravas e de mesa, sugerindo que cada forma tenha evoludo separadamente aps a domesticao. Nossos resultados mostram que variedades tradicionais constituem uma importante fonte de diversidade gentica e deveriam receber maior ateno no manejo de recursos genticos de plantas cultivadas. 
4288018|The practical utilization of heterosis in crop plants has been greatly facilitated during the past 15 years by the use of cytoplasmic male-sterility for low-cost, large-scale emasculation of the seed parents of hybrids. The method is now being used in commercial production of hybrid onions, sugar beets, field corn, grain sorghum, and petunias. Its use is contemplated for hybrid sweet corn, pop corn, red table beets, fodder beets, fodder sorghum, pearl millet, carrots, and garden peppers.
4254046|A detailed chemical analysis of the breadfruit (Artocarpus altilis) is presented, followed by an analysis of the fat and a partial amino acid analysis of the globular proteins and their isoelectric point, determined by electrophoresis.
4253875|Bryoria fremontii (Tuck.) Brodo & D. Hawksw. (syn. Alectoria fremontii Tuck.) was an important source of food for the interior Indian peoples of western North America from northern British Columbia to northern California. It and related species were also used as materials for clothing and medicine and are known to appear in native mythical traditions. The extent of the use of this lichen and the means of its collection and preparation are detailed in this paper.
4254314|The development of alternative sources for energy and chemicals, particularly the use of plant biomass as a renewable resource for fuel or chemical feedstocks has received much recent attention. This report reviews the chemical utilization of plant materials for liquid fuels or organic chemicals, and presents the possibility of producing hydrocarbon and related chemical products, directly or indirectly, from extant plants rather than from fossil sources such as petroleum or coal.
4254319|Research into the systems of agriculture based on vegetative fallows should begin from enquiries into the shrubs and trees most efficient in restoring soil productivity and providing firewood, timber, fodder and other products essential to meeting basic needs at the rural household and community level. Local processing of such products can give rise to the establishment of thriving village industries and thus generate employment and additional income. Neem tree, Azadirachta indica, of the semiarid regions is one outstanding example of a species which is not only an efficient soil ameliorant but can also provide a series of products highly competitive in price and quality with petroleum-based synthetics. Enough scientific evidence has been gathered from several hundred references on the subject to warrant the launching of a well coordinated multidisciplinary research and development programme leading to agricultural, industrial and commercial exploitation of this tree. Proposals for the implementation of several projects within the programme are briefly outlined in this paper.
4254941|The USDA Northern Regional Research Center (NRRC) has previously studied chemical and botanical characteristics of about 1,000 plant species in efforts to identify potential new plant sources for industrial raw materials. For this report, an additional 51 species were collected from Tennessee and studied. Above-ground plant samples were analyzed for yields of oils, polyphenols, hydrocarbons, protein, and ash. Oils were examined for the presence of seven classes of lipids and analyzed for yields of fatty acids and unsaponifiable matter. Hydrocarbons were examined for the presence of rubber, gutta, and waxes. Rubber and gutta were analyzed for average molecular weight (MW) and MW distribution. Chemical and botanical data are presented for eight of the 51 species. A checklist of the 43 other species is given; data on these are available from NRRC. Lapsana communis yielded the most oil (6.1%; dry, ash-free, plant sample basis). Ilex montana yielded the most polyphenol (21.5%) plus 4.5% oil. Agrimonia parviflora and Catalpa bignonioides gave substantial yields of polyphenol (20.0% and 17.9%, respectively), and Passinifolia, incarnata contained the most apparent protein (19.8%). Chrysopsis graminifolia, Solidago erecta, and Verbesina alternifolia were identified as rubber-producing species with 0.4-0.7% hydrocarbon.
4253308| Fresh leaves of deer's tongue contain large quantities (more than 10% of the dry weight, in some cases) of o-hydroxycinnamic acid (o-HCA). Both cis- and trans-o-HCA are present, and both isomers exist in the fresh tissue predominantly as glucosides. Cured deer's tongue leaves contain relatively high levels of coumarin and lower amounts of o-HCA glucosides. It is probable that during the curing process cis-o-HCA glucoside is hydrolyzed by an endogenous -glucosidase, and that the liberated cis-o-HCA lactonizes spontaneously to form coumarin. 
4256391|The native palm flora of Ecuador consists of 129 taxa, including at least 69 species used by rural people, 19 of which are exploited commercially. This paper integrates bioclimatic modeling of palm distribution and quantitative ranking through pair-wise comparisons of species as a tool to evaluate and map the importance of 14 taxa of commercially exploited palms in Ecuador based on criteria of harvest values, sustainability, vegetation cover and population density. The ranking procedure could find broad application within ethnobotany and economic botany. Results show that extraction of palm products, economically speaking, is most important in the heavily deforested and populated coastal lowland.
4256960|The immature fruits of domesticated Luffa acutangula (L.) Roxb. are a common vegetable in Asia and India. To learn more about traditional cultivars, accessions were collected from southern Yunnan Province of China, northern Laos, and southeastern Nepal, and assessed for various parameters of genetic diversity. The size and shape of the fruits and seeds varied considerably. A form that we found cultivated only in Nepal bore clusters of small fruits that are produced by hermaphrodite flowers. Plants produced male flowers first, and the first node to bear flowers varied from the second to the twenty-seventh. Twenty-nine allozyme loci were assayed. Within L. acutangula one allozyme locus was polymorphic. Luffa acutangula and L. aegyptiaca are fixed for different alleles at nine loci, indicating that they are completely reproductively isolated from each other. /// [Abstract in Chinese]
4255502| Plant uses by the Pokomo and their influence on riverine forest structure and composition are examined in the Tana River National Primate Reserve, Kenya. Of a total 98 plant species identified with one or more uses, 15 are used as food, 34 for construction material, 43 for technology, 23 for remedy, 2 for commerce, and 20 for other uses. The mean basal area of cut wood is 3.21 m
4251907|This tropical American fruit, cultivated in Florida and elsewhere around the world, was used, because of its high vitamin-C content, to fortify military food rations in World War II.
41242865|As an example of the importance of gender relations in the use of natural resources, several authors have analyzed the role of women in homegardens. Gendered differences in homegarden management have been difficult to disentangle due to the often-shared nature of gardening.Here, we use an innovative approach to analyze gendered differences in the characteristics and management of homegardens. Specifically, we use information on the prevalence of different household members in gardening activities to classify homegardens as women's, men's, or shared. Then, we compare several garden characteristics across the three types of homegardens. For the case study, we use data from homegardens in three rural areas of the Iberian Peninsula. We found that household members generally share homegarden responsibilities in these three regions and that many homegarden characteristics vary with the distribution of gardening tasks. Specifically, we discovered that gardens managed mainly by men were larger, more distant from the dwelling, and better exposed than gardens managed by women. Men and women also used different management techniques; organic fertilizers and traditional pest control management systems predominated in gardens managed by women.Men and women also differed in how they reportedly use garden products, with women favoring household consumption versus sale or gifting. Last, gardens managed mainly by women had a larger diversity of uses for species and a larger diversity of species per unit area. Cultural norms of what is considered appropriate behavior for men and women help explain differences in garden characteristics and their plant composition and structure. En un intento de entender la importancia de las relaciones de gnero en el uso de los recursos naturales, varios autores han analizado el papel de las mujeres en los huertos domsticos.Debido a que muchos huertos son gestionados por vrios miembros del hogar, es difcil identificar las diferencias de gnero en el manejo de los huertos. En este artculo utilizamos un enfoque innovador para analizar diferencias de gnero en las caractersticas y manejo de los huertos. Especificamente, utilizamos informacin sobre el predominio de diferentes miembros del hogar en el cuidado del huerto para clasificar los huertos como de hombres, de mujeres, o compartidos. Luego comparamos las caractersticas de estos tres tipos de huertos. El estudio fue realizado en tres zonas rurales de montaa de la Pennsula Ibrica. Hallamos que las responsabilidades del manejo de los huertos son a menudo compartidas y que muchas caractersticas de los huertos varan segn la distribucin de las tareas. Los huertos manejados por hombres principalmente son ms grandes, ms alejados de la casa, y tienen una mejor exposicin que los manejados por mujeres. El gnero tambin influye en el predominio de tcnicas de manejo; la fertilizacin orgnica y los mtodos tradicionales de control de plagas predominan en los huertos de mujeres. Tambin hallamos diferencias en el destino de los productos del huerto: las mujeres favorecen el consumo en el hogar en vez de la venta o el regalo. Por ltimo, los huertos manejados principalmente por mujeres tienen una mayor diversidad de usos de espcies y una mayor diversidad de espcies por unidad de rea. Las normas culturales que determinan el comportamiento culturalmente correcto para hombres y mujeres ayudan a explicar las diferencias en las caractersticas, la composicin, y la estructura de los huertos caseros.
4251943|These two secondary rubbers are obtained from trees that occur naturally in moderate quantities in eastern South America and were used to some extent in meeting the rubber demands of World War II.
4254798|Cucurbita foetidissima (buffalo gourd), a semiaridland plant native to the Greater Southwest, has been utilized by humans for thousands of years, primarily as food and medicine. In recent years, buffalo gourd has been the focus of an important domestication program at the University of Arizona. This research has led to 2 main cultural systems, an annual mode for root-starch production, and a perennial mode primarily for seed-oil production. In our paper, over 75 references are analyzed to evaluate the potential of buffalo gourd as an energy, chemical-products, and food crop. Priorities are suggested, including investigation of buffalo gourd as a novel crop for New Mexico's developing fuel ethanol industry.
4287919|Several species of the genus Astragalus, growing wild in Iran, Iraq, Turkey, Afghanistan and adjacent Russia are the commercial sources of this exudate, obtained by tapping the branches or roots. Its hydrophilic and colloidal properties are of value in the manufacture of ice cream, liquors, lotions, sizings and other industrial products.
4254709|Curry leaf (Murraya koenigii, Rutaceae) is an important leafy vegetable and the leaves are widely used in Indian cookery for flavouring foodstuffs. The leaves have a slightly pungent, bitter and feebly acidic taste, and they retain their flavour and other qualities even after drying. Curry leaf is also used in many of the Indian ayurvedic and unani prescriptions. The plant originated in the Tarai region of Uttar Pradesh, India, and at present it is cultivated in Burma, Ceylon, China, Australia and the Pacific Islands. The crop is usually propagated by seeds. A volatile oil, curry leaf oil, produced from the plant has uses in the soap industry. There is need to conserve the variability in the plant to prevent extinction of desirable types.
41408242|Annona (Annonaceae) is an important source of fruits in the Brazilian Cerrado and the Amazon Rainforest. Some Annona species are widely commercialized as fresh fruit or as frozen pulp. Seeds are accustomedly discarded. Our main goal was to analyze fatty acids profile from seeds of A. crassiflora and A. coricea from Cerrado, A. montana from Amazon Forest, and three cultivars (A. cherimola cv. Madeira, A. cherimola x A. squamosa cv. Pink's Mammonth and A. cherimola x A. squamosa cv. Gefner). The total oil yield ranged between 20 and 42% by weight of dry mass. The A cherimola x A. squamosa cv. Gefner has significantly higher total lipid yield than all other samples. 100 g of fruit of this species present 6-8 g of seeds. Considering the fruit production of Chile (over 221 ton of fruits/year), more than 1300 ton of seed/year could be obtained, which could provide at least 200 ton of seed oil. Oleic acid was predominant for most samples, but for A. montana linoleic acid was the most abundant FA. Phenotypic variation on FAME profile was observed. These new data are an urgent requirement for supporting conservation programs, mainly for Cerrado areas in Brazil.
4287902|This fruit yields from 1000 to 4000 milligrams of ascorbic acid per 100 grams of edible matter. It is a potential source of natural Vitamin C which can be exploited to great advantage by canning and other processing industries.
4256933| An ethnobotany study in collaboration with Q'eqchi' Maya healers of Southern Belize led to a collection of 169 medicinal plant species, belonging to 67 different families. The data show the use of a majority of species from primary or secondary semi-evergreen rainforests of Southern Belize, rather than weedy species. The medicinal uses of the plants were grouped into 17 usage categories. The frequency of use for each plant and the informant consensus factor for each usage category reveals a consensus among the healers on the use of plant species as well as on the diseases treated. These results suggest a well-defined medicinal tradition. /// Une tude ethnobotanique en collaboration avec les gurisseurs Mayas Q'eqchi' du Sud du Belize a men  la rcolte de 169 espces de plantes mdicinales appartenant  67 familles diffrentes. Les donnes montrent l'utilisation d'une majorit d'espces provenant des forts tropicales humides primaires ou secondaires du Sud du Belize, plutt que de mauvaises herbes. Les utilisations mdicinales de ces plantes ont t classes dans 17 catgories d'usage. La frquence d'utilisation de chaque plante et le facteur de consensus calcul pour chaque catgorie d'usage rvle un haut degr de consensus parmi les gurisseurs aussi bien pour l'utilisation des plantes que pour les maladies traites par ces dernires. Ces rsultats suggrent une tradition mdicinale bien dfinie. 
4255161|Most of the early and rich archaeobotanical finds of Lathyrus sect. Cicercula, particularly those of the most ancient periods, came from the Balkan peninsula. It has been found that cultivation of L. sativus began there in the early Neolithic period, around 6000 B.C.E., as a result of the expansion of Near Eastern agriculture of annuals into the region. This, in turn, encouraged development of a greater variety of legumes by the domestication of an additional native species. Similarly, it is suggested that domestication of L. cicera in southern France and the Iberian peninsula occurred only after the introduction of agriculture into the area. Cultivation of these two closely related species in adjacent regions led to the raising of a mixed crop in many ancient fields. Lathyrus sativus may perhaps be the first crop domesticated in Europe.
4252756|Useful plants and techniques of their cultivation were studied in and around dwelling clearings of Choco Indians in tropical rain forests of Darien, Panama. The population sampled consisted of 115 adult Chocos living at 26 sites along the banks of the Rio Chucunaque and two of its tributaries, the Rio Tuquesa and Rio Chico. The Rio Chico had a higher population density per linear mile of river bank, but less dwelling area per person was kept clear of vegetation. A map of each clearing allowed comparison of the frequency and spatial distributions of useful plants. These data are statistically treated elsewhere. A decrease in both numbers and variety of native plants occurred as commercially important plants were established on a larger scale. Creation of open niches by means of trash heaps became more definite as distance from the riverbank increased; edible plants were often growing in such locations. Present-day agricultural techniques among the Choco may illustrate their agricultural history. A comparison is made with several extant theories of early agriculture. Small-scale, more intensive gardening was noted in village clearings; groups of dwellings may thus have been a cause rather than a result of field agriculture.
4255228| Employing nine clones of Mentha arvensis and four clones of M. spicata, 932 F
4256868| This work presents bromatological analyses performed on seeds and fruits of Sabal mexicana Mart.; a comparison with data existent of other palms and some phytochemical data are presented. A discussion of the possible importance of some results obtained and the potential use of this palm is presented. /// Este trabajo presenta anlisis bromatollogicos realizados en semillas y frutos de Salbal mexicana Mart. Los resultados se comparan con datos existentes para otras palmas y se presentan algunos datos fitoqumicos; adems se discute acerca de la posible importancia de algunos de los resultados obtenidos y su uso potencial. 
4255049|Phaseolin type, determined by one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, was used to suggest dissemination routes of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) cultivars from their areas of domestication to Europe and Africa. In the Iberian Peninsula, 'C' was the most frequent phaseolin type. Only in Chile has a comparably high 'C' frequency been observed previously, indicating that many Iberian cultivars may have been introduced from Chile, or that many Chilean cultivars may have come from the Iberian Peninsula. In Europe (outside the Iberian Peninsula), most cultivars exhibited a 'T' type. The high frequency of this type may be related to the high frequency of green pod cultivars among European cultivars. Most African cultivars exhibited a 'T' or a 'C' type and may have been introduced from Brazil, the Iberian Peninsula, or western Europe. 'T' or 'C' cultivars had larger seeds than 'S' cultivars. The phaseolin patterns of cultivars with different seed types and of early French cultivars are discussed.
4252318|Gutta-gums figure prominently in international trade. For more than 100 years the United States has been, and continues to be, the principal consumer of these raw materials. Trade reports issued by the U. S. Department of Commerce indicate that during 1960 approximately 11,717,000 pounds of these forest products, with an aggregate value of $6,536,792, were imported, mostly from Malaysia, Central America, and northern South America. These commodities are still furnished mainly by "wild" trees. Plantation development has been limited to small-scale propagation of guttapercha (Palaquium gutta Burck) in Indonesia and Malaya and recently of chilte (Cnidoscolus spp.) in western Mexico. In comparison with Hevea brasiliensis (Willd. ex Adr. Juss.) Muell. Arg., Castilla elastica Cerv., and other species of rubber, relatively little has been published on the sources of gutta-gums.
4254869|By the year 2000, palaeoethnobotany will have been functional as an integral part of archaeology for somewhat less than 100 yr. Initially admired for the longevity of their persistence, archaeological plant remains gradually came to be an indication of the diet of prehistoric people. In some species, the archaeological plant remains also indicate the developmental history of the cultivated plant. For others, no wild ancestor is known or revealed by the archaeological plant remains. As greater knowledge is assembled of the plants useful for man, patterns of prehistoric distribution are revealed. The more exact location of the area of origin of cultivated species will become increasingly important to a population faced with chronic food shortages as this will guide botanists to ancestral species and their close relatives. From this reservoir will come desirable plant attributes that can be bred into high-yielding, but genetically depauperate strains of crop plants. The predicted scarcity of petroleum about the year 2000 will lead to high cost or lack of petrochemicals whose use may be substituted for by disease and insect-resistant strains found in the area of a crop's origin. That area may also offer biological controls, which will offset the lack of insecticides and fungicides. Although it is unlikely that early man overlooked useful plants that might be brought into cultivation, areas of diversity of crop plants are also prime areas to be investigated for new crop plants.
4255694| Nuas are a group of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris, Fabaceae) varieties, whose grains are consumed after toasting in their original Andean habitats. Nowadays, these varieties are restricted to certain parts of the highlands of Peru and Bolivia. Linguistic, ethnobotanical, and archaeological data suggest that they were grown in that zone during pre-Hispanic times. SDS-PAGE electrophoresis shows a wide range of phaseolin types among nuas, many of which are present in sympatric wild forms. This paper discusses the possibility that nuas resulted from an early and widely applied selection pressure during bean domestication in the Andes. / Las nuas o 'frijoles reventones' son un grupo de variedades de frijol comn de las cuales los granos se consumen tostados en su hbitat original en los Andes. Este hbitat se restringe en la actualidad a algunas partes altas del Per y de Bolivia. Los datos lingusticos, etnobotnicos y arqueolgicos dejan suponer una presencia pre-Hispnica en la zona. Los anlisis electroforticos en SDS-PAGE muestran una amplia gama de tipos de faseolina, varios de estos presentes en formas silvestres simptricas. Se discute la posibilidad que las nuas corresponden a una presin selectiva aplicada en forma temprana y amplia en el proceso de domesticacin del frijol en los Andes. 
40390432|This paper reviews practical policy lessons from trade in a dietary supplement (or nutraceutical) processed from Terminalia ferdinandiana (Combretaceae), which contains extremely high levels of natural ascorbic acid (vitamin C). Most production is from wild harvest by Aboriginal people, who get USD 14 per kilogram (kg) for picked, sorted fruit. However, the main Australian company involved is struggling to get the 12 tons/year it requires, and could market much more. Although Aboriginal people ideally should benefit economically from harvest of T. ferdinandiana, there are major challenges to this objective, including Australia's high labor costs compared to Asia, Africa, and Latin America where T. ferdinandiana can be grown. In addition, although Australia is a signatory to and plays a leading role in the international Convention on Biodiversity (CBD), this has meant little in practice so far. "Cultural branding" and certification of organic, wild harvested T. ferdinandiana fruit collected by Aboriginal people working in partnership with commercial companies offers a possibility for Aboriginal people to continue to benefit from wild harvest or enrichment plantings. However, even the establishment of commercial horticultural production within Australia faces several challenges. For Australia to maintain and develop the international market, future development of this bush food must include: (a) implementation of existing international and national policies on protection of genetic resources; (b) formation of a producer association to increase production efficiencies; (c) functioning partnerships between Aboriginal producers and commercial partners that guarantee and expand reliable supply and develop cultural branding and certification as marketing tools; and (d) scientific research into improving T. ferdinandiana fruit yields and production methods, based on improved resource management and efficient processing methods.
4251997|Seed propagation was found more profitable than any of three vegetative methods investigated for multiplying this source of a very specific raticide.
4255448| The bank of sweet potato germplasm at the International Potato Center (CIP) in Lima, Peru, is made up of cultivated germplasm [Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.] and wild germplasm collected in Latin America and the Caribbean. In the wild germplasm section Batatas is included because of its genetic importance in relation to its phylogenetic affinity with the cultivated sweet potato. In our study we have included 11 wild species of the section to identify and determine the primary factors that influence the enlargement of fibrous roots under greenhouse conditions. Thus, the study was divided into two sequential phases: a) identification of wild species with thickened fibrous roots; b) determination of the primary factors that influence the thickening of fibrous roots. The first phase began between 197 and 593 days after planting the 11 species by using a visual evaluation of the roots according to the gradual scale: 0 = fibrous roots; 1 = slightly thickened; 2 = moderately thickened; 3 = thickened; 4 = very thick. As a result four species were identified in categories three and four (I. batatas, I. cordato-triloba, I. tiliacea, and I. ramosissima). The second phase was begun between 123 and 669 days after planting of nine species identified with some category of enlargement according to an evaluation with a gradual quantified scale: 0 = <1.45 mm; 1 = 1.45-3.99 m; 2 = 4.0-6.99 mm; 3 = 7.0-9.0 mm; 4 = >9.0 mm. In this phase, two physiological factors were identified (vegetative period and volume of substrate) and a genetic factor (level of ploidy), which directly influence the thickening of fibrous roots. Considering the four species identified with thickened fibrous roots in categories three and four in the two phases of the study [I. batatas (4x), I. tiliacea (4x), I. cordato-triloba (2x) and I. ramosissima (2x)], we propose a plan for the use of wild germplasm in a program of systematic genetic improvement of the sweet potato. /// Engrosamiento de races fibrosas en el gnero Ipomoea de la seccin Batatas (Convolvulaceae). En el Centro Internacional de la Papa (CIP), el banco de germoplasma de camote, boniato o batata [Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.] esta constituido por material cultivado y silvestre colectados en Amrica Latina y el Caribe desde 1985 a1992. En el germoplasma silvestre, resalta la seccin Batatas por su relacin filognetica con la batata. El presente estudio incluye once especies de esta seccin para identificar y determinar factores primarios que influyen en el engrosamiento de races fibrosas en condiciones de invernadero. As, el estudio fue dividido en dos fases secuenciales: a) Identificacin de especies silvestres con capacidad de formacin de races fibrosas engrosadas; b) Determinar los factores primarios que influyen en el engrosamiento de races fibrosas. La primera fase se inicio entre los 197 y 593 das despus de la siembra de once especies siendo la evaluacin visual de races segn la escala gradual: 0 = races fibrosas; 1 = ligeramente engrosadas; 2 = moderamente engrosadas; 3 = engrosadas; 4 = muy engrosadas (Figura 1). Fueron identificados tres especies (I. batatas, I. cordato-triloba e I. tiliacea) con races fibrosas engrosadas con grado tres y cuatro. La segunda fase, se inicio entre los 123 y 669 das despus de la siembra de nueve especies identificadas con algn grado de engrosamiento, siendo la evaluacin segn una escala gradual cuantificada: 0 = <1.45 mm; 1 = 1.45-3.99 mm; 2 = 4.0-6.99 mm; 3 = 7.0-9.0 mm; 4 = >9.0 mm. En esta fase, el engrosamiento de races fibrosas (grado tres y cuatro) continua manifestandose en las tres especies e iniciandose en I. ramosissima, a su vez, fueron identificados dos factores fisiolgicos (periodo vegetativo de 638 das y volumen de substrato de 8") los cuales influyen directamente en el engrosamiento de las races fibrosas. Considerandose las tres especies [I. batatas (4x), I. tiliacea (4x) e I. cordato-triloba (2x)] identificadas en las dos fases con races fibrosas engrosadas (grado tres y cuatro) se apertura una alternativa para la utilizacin del germoplasma silvestre dentro de un programa de mejoramiento gentico sistemtico de la batata. Finalmente, en I. cordato-triloba casi todas las entradas muestran un mayor porcentaje de plantas con grado tres y cuatro. 
4253487|Nine accessions representing three sorghum species were grown at six locations in a single crop year to evaluate their potential as fibrous raw materials for pulp and papermaking. Evaluations were based on field yields, agronomic characteristics, and physical and chemical composition. Growing conditions caused considerable variation, but maturity, time of harvest, and harvesting methods also influenced composition. Preferred locations based on production of whole stalks (exclusive of roots) and of culms were Iowa, Indiana, and Georgia. The best productivity for several accessions exceeded 10 tons per acre (o.d.) for whole stalks and 6 tons per acre for culms. The mean content (for three locations) of crude cellulose in culms, ranged from 40.9 to 53.8% and of alpha cellulose from 25.7 to 34.7%; the level of pith ranged from 6.1 to 15.2%. Ash content in culms was 3% or less compared with 7% or more in leaves. Late-maturing PI 229837 and 229847 were consistently good yielders, but were chemically inferior to PI 177549 and 190579. Composition of PI 177549 was the most favorable, with a high proportion of culms to leaves and with crude cellulose content of 58.4% in culms (Georgia). In Iowa, the content of crude cellulose in culms of PI 229837 was equivalent to 3.40 tons per acre, and that of alpha cellulose was equivalent to 2.31 tons per acre. Accessions meriting further consideration are: PI 177549 (broom corn), 229837 and 229847 (kafir types), and 190579 (sorghum grass).
4255270| In the first stages of potato evolution in the northern Andes, diploid cultivated species of the Solanum stenotomum complex were selected, in all probability, from wild progenitors in the S. brevicaule complex. Tetraploid Solanum tuberosum ssp. andigena arose by fusion of unreduced gametes of a parent in the S. stenotomum complex with those of an unidentified wild species having actinomorphic calyces. Unreduced male gametes of several diploid species fertilized eggs of spp. andigena leading to extensive introgression. Solanum tuberosum ssp. tuberosum probably originated from a cross between ssp. andigena as staminate parent and an unidentified wild species which contributed cytoplasmic sterility factors encoded in mitochondria and/or plastids having a distinctive type of DNA. Derivatives of this hybridization, which may have occurred in northwestern Argentina, evolved to ssp. tuberosum in southern Chile and southern Argentina. In the 1570's ssp. andigena was imported to Europe and spread from there to become a major crop with worldwide distribution. In the 1840's it was essentially eliminated by late blight, Phytophthora infestans. Solanum tuberosum ssp. tuberosum was introduced from Chile into North America and Europe in the late 1800's, and in turn achieved a worldwide distribution, filling the vacated agricultural niche of ssp. andigena. The differences between ssp. andigena and ssp. tuberosum in South America are sufficient that the two could reasonably be considered to be separate species. Since the 1960's the two taxa have been hybridized often in breeding programs. Neo-tuberosum, a northern-adapted strain of ssp. andigena, has been selected to mimic ssp. tuberosum. Substitution back-cross products have been produced that have the chromosomal genes of ssp. tuberosum combined with cytoplasmic factors of Andean species. These breeding activities are blurring the distinctions between the two subspecies throughout much of the world, though they remain distinct in their native areas in South America. /// En las primeras etapas de la evolucin de la papa cultivada en el norte de los Andes, las especies diploides del complejo Solanum stenotomum se originaron, probablemente, de progenitores silvestres pertenecientes al complejo S. brevicaule. Solanum tuberosum ssp. andigena se origin por fusin de gametos no reducidos de un padre proveniente del complejo S. stenotomum con otros gametos de especies silvestres no identificadas, las cuales tienen calices actinomorfos. La introgresin de muchas especies diploides en tetraploide ssp. andigena ocurri a traves de fertilizacin por el polen no reducido de especies diploides. El comienzo de la evolucin de Solanum tuberosum ssp. tuberosum surgi, probablemente del cruce entre ssp. andigena como pariente macho y otra especie silvestre no identificada la cual contribuy con los ovulos y por lo tanto con los factores citoplasmticos esteriles encodados en las mitocondrias o en los plastidios con distintos tipos de ADN. Los productos de esta hibridacin evolucionaron a ssp. tuberosum en el noroeste de Argentina hasta el sur de Argentina y Chile. Hacia los aos 1570, la ssp. andigena fue introducida a Europa y de all se expandi quedando plantada en todo el mundo. En los 1840 fue practicamente eliminada excepto en America del Sur por el tizn tardio (Phytophthora infestans). Solanum tuberosum ssp. tuberosum fue introducida desde Chile hacia Norte America y Europa a finales del 1800 y desde entonces se distribuy a traves del mundo, llenando el vaco ecolgico creado por la desaparicin de ssp. andigena. Las diferencias entre ssp. andigena y ssp. tuberosum son tales que las dos pueden con mucha razon ser consideradas como dos especies separadas. Desde 1950 los dos taxa han sido frecuentemente hibridizados en programas de fitomejoramiento. Neo-tuberosum, una cepa de ssp. andigena adaptada a las condiciones del norte, ha sido seleccionada y hoy algunas de ellas son muy semejante a ssp. tuberosum. Tambien en el norte se han producido plantas que tienen los genes cromosmicos de ssp. tuberosum combinados con factores citoplasmticos de especies andinas. Estas actividades de fitomejoramiento han oscurecido en cierta forma las diferencias entre las dos subespecies en muchas partes del mundo, sin embargo las dos permanecen bien distintas en sus areas nativas de America del Sur. 
4254077|Modification of seed dispersal was perhaps one of the most important steps towards domestication of seed crops. Among the legumes of the Middle East, four patterns of such modification can be distinguished in the process of domestication. The initial stage of domestication of lentil, pea and grass pea was apparently due to a single mutation in a major gene that prevented pod dehiscence. In chick pea the domesticated type was formed by accumulation of several mutations in minor genes that reduced the amount of pod dropping and shattering. From a seed dispersal point of view, fenugreek was preadapted to cultivation since the wild species do not shatter their seeds. In the bitter vetch and common vetch partial seed shattering apparently was tolerable and desirable under cultivation since the seed served merely for sowing the next year crop.
4256836|Research on agrobiodiversity points to the importance of home gardens in situ conservation, yet few studies to date explicate the origins and dynamics of plant species diversity. In this paper, we examine inter-household variations in cultivated plant species diversity among house gardens in a traditional peasant community, near Iquitos, Peru. In-depth household interviews (n = 24) and garden/field surveys reveal that home gardens are clearly the site of highest plant diversity in farmers' field portfolios, and that substantial differences exist in garden composition, plant diversity, and the sources of garden planting material across households. Statistical analyses indicate that home garden diversity is related strongly to specific garden characteristics, household socioeconomic features, and access to planting material including seeds, cuttings, and suckers. The role and implications of differential access to planting material in the development and maintenance of crop species diversity is signaled as an important theme for future study in economic botany.
4256222| The use of salep (ground orchid bulbs) has a long history in Turkey. The analysis of its trade revealed that it is still used there as medicine, drink and as binder in so-called Mara Ice cream. Substitutes, however, increasingly enter the market. Export figures unfortunately do not distinguish between true salep and substitutes. The officially recorded Turkish export of 75 100 kg salep in 1993 almost certainly refers more to substitutes than to true salep. Major countries of destination are Germany, the Netherlands, and northern Cyprus. Drug importers in Germany have imported true salep for medicinal purposes for years, CITES documents were not applied for and not issued. Five medicines containing true salep could be identified on the German market for medicinal products. It is estimated that about 10-20 million orchid bulbs are collected annually in Turkey. Information to the impact of such a harvest on the population status on the species concerned are somehow contradictory. Recommendations are made for a better control of salep trade, for reducing the use of genuine salep and for better protection of orchid populations in Turkey. /// Die Verwendung von Salep (Knollen von Erdorchideen) hat in der Trkei eine lange Geschichte. Eine Analyse des Handels zeigt, da Salep dort immer noch in der Volksmedizin, zur Zubereitung eines Heigetrnks und fr das sog. Mara-Speiseeise verwendet wird. Jedoch kommen zunehmend Erstatzstoffe auf den Markt. Bei der Angabe von Exportzahlen wird leider nicht zwischen Salep und Salep-Ersatzstoffen unterschieden. Die offizielle Exportstatistik der Trkei weist fr 1993 eine Ausfuhr von 75.100 kg Salep aus-ein Wert, der sich sicherlich ganz berwiegend auf Ersatzstoffe beziehen drfte. Hauptempfngerlnder sind Deutschland, die Niederlande und der nrdliche Teil Zyperns. Drogenimporteure in Deutschland geben an, da sie seit Jahren Salep fr medizinische Zwecke importieren, doch gibt es dazu keine CITES-Dokumente. In Deutschland wurden fnf Arzneimittel ermittelt, die echten Salep enthalten. Es wird geschtzt, da in der Trkei jhrlich 10-20 Mio. Orchideen-Knollen geerntet werden. Die Angaben ber den Einflu des Sammeln aus die Wildpopulationen der betroffenen Arten sind etwas widersprchlich. Es werden Empfehlungen fr eine bessere Kontrolle des Salep-Handels, fr eine Reduktion der Verwendung von echtem Salep und fr einen besseren Schutz der Orchideen-Populationen in der Trkei ausgesprochen. 
4252297|The farmers of South Africa have provided the first steps in the domestication of a medicinal herb endemic to the Cape Province.
4256579|Southern Nigeria represents one of the richest zones of vegetational wealth of Nigeria. The land surface is dominated by plants under 200 m.a.s.l. Folk utilization of pteridophytes by the southern Nigerians was studied. The results of this survey display an interesting diversity and distribution of ferns and fern-allied plants used as medicines, food, cosmetics, and manure in southern Nigeria. The data were compiled from frequent field trips conducted in 40 local government areas (LGAs). A total of 36 plant species belonging to 22 families were identified. Plant specimens and information were collected directly from the local inhabitants in villages and periurban towns. Our literature survey showed little or no documentation of ethnobotanical studies on pteridophytes of this region. Therefore, the present communication serves to bridge the gap. Thus, these pteridophytes could provide a vital source for healthcare and economic revenue after appropriate pharmacological analysis by patents.
4256935|Small-scale wood harvesting from mangrove forests is a commonplace yet barely studied phenomenon. This paper integrates bio-ecological and ethnographic methods to examine local wood use and cutting of mangrove forests in two areas of the Philippines. Findings reveal considerable site variation in cutting intensity, with heavier cutting typically closer to settlements and in forest stands that are not effectively regulated by government or private interests. Overall, cutting is responsible for almost 90% of stem mortality in both natural and plantation forests. Field measurements confirm ethnographic evidence indicating that harvesting for construction wood, but not fuel-wood, is both species- and size-selective. Mangrove management and conservation efforts can be made more effective by better understanding how local people are harvesting wood resources from these forests.
4254247|Compositional data obtained for peppermint oil from Mentha piperita L. produced in Tasmania as well as oils produced in other major production areas, were analysed by principal coordinate analysis. The 6 variates included in the analysis were the oil compounds limonene, cineole, menthone, menthofuran, menthyl acetate and menthol. In general, Tasmanian oils were characterised by low menthofuran, low limonene, low menthyl acetate and to a lesser extent high menthone, low cineole and high menthol concentrations relative to most major production areas. When the variation in composition of oil samples from within Tasmania was displayed in 3 dimensions (using the first 3 principal coordinates) it was not possible to achieve any pronounced separation of oils produced at different locations within southern Tasmania. Principal coordinates which were based mainly on cineole and menthol concentrations, respectively, did allow a degree of separation between oils produced in southern and northern Tasmania. Generally, oils produced in northern Tasmania had lower cineole and, in some cases, higher menthol than southern Tasmanian oils. Oil extracted from regrowth herb after commercial harvest was distinguished by having very high menthyl acetate, low menthone, high menthol, high menthofuran, low cineole and low limonene concentrations. The effect of some cultural and environmental factors on oil composition is also discussed.
4252836|A discussion of the activities of Crown Zellerbach Corporation in the field of developing, producing and worldwide marketing of pure chemicals of commerce from the forest, including comments on some new chemicals being developed.
4256201| Sweet goldenrod (Solidago odora) has a long history of medicinal use by Native Americans and was exported for tea in the nineteenth century. In 1996 sweet goldenrod was proclaimed the State Herb of Delaware. The essential oil of flowering tops of S. odora f. odora originally from Maryland is characterized by 70.813.82% methyl chavicol (estragole) and 12.452.26% myrcene, while the essential oil of flowering tops of S. odora f. inodora from Delaware is characterized by 31.2813.26% myrcene, 27.094.13% limonene, and 12.894.41% (E)-methyl isoeugenol. While no toxic principles could be found in the essential oil, further study is still needed to confirm that the toxicity reported in previous studies is due entirely to infestations by goldenrod rust, Coleosporium asterum. /// Solidago odora tiene una historia larga de usos medicinales por la gente indgena de Norte America, y fue exportada para uso como t en el siglo diecinueve. En 1996, S. odora fue adopto como la hierba del estado de Delaware. El aceite esencial de las flores de S. odora f. odora en un principio del estado de Maryland contiene 70,813,82% el metilo de chavicol (estragole) y 12,452,26% myrcene, mientras el aceite esencial de las flores de S. odora f. inodora del estado de Delaware contiene 31,2813,26% myrcene, 27,094,13% limonene, y el metilo de 12,894,41% (E)-metilo de isoeugenol. Mientras no se encontraron ningn componentes txicos en el aceite esencial hacen falta ms estudios para confirmar que la toxicadad reportada en estudios previos fue ocasionada exclusivamente por Coleosporium asterum. 
4256680| We studied the medicinal plants used by the Popoluca of the Sierra de Santa Marta (eastern Mexico). Using Moerman's method of regression analysis we determined which ethnomedically used taxa are over-represented in the Popolucan pharmacopoeia (e.g., Asteraceae) and which are underrepresented (e.g., Orchidaceae). Moerman et al. (1999) found high correlation between the holarctic pharmacopoeias and assumed that apart from the relatedness of the northern floras a "global pattern of human knowledge" may account for this finding. Although the Popoluca dwell in a habitat dominated by a neotropical flora but intermixed with important holarctic elements, they include considerably fewer neotropical taxa in their pharmacopoeia as one would expect if the historical transmitted knowledge were influencing their selection. This finding confirms the theory stated by Moerman et al. However, the Popoluca include some neotropical taxa in their pharmacopoeia and thus a moderate correlation exists between the Popolucan pharmacopoeia and the neotropical pharmacopoeia analysed by Moerman et al. We therefore conclude that apart from historically transmitted knowledge about specific taxa the "global pattern of human knowledge" addressed by Moerman et al. is largely based on "common selection criteria." /// Estudiamos las plantas medicinales que usan los Popolucas de la Sierra de Santa Marta, Veracruz, en el oriente de Mxico. Aplicando el mtodo de anlisis de regresin de Moerman, determinamos cuales taxa utilizados etnomdicamente estn sobre-representados (p. ej. Asteraceae) y cules taxa estn sub-representados (p. ej. Orchidaceae) en la farmacopea Popoluca. Moerman y colaboradores encontraron una alta correlacin entre diversas farmacopeas holrticas y suponen que este hecho se debe a la semejanza de las floras boreales y a la existencia de un "cuadro comn de sabidura humana." Los Popolucas, quienes viven en un medio ambiente dominado por la flora neotropical mezclada con elementos boreales, incluyen menos taxa neotropicales en su farmacopea de lo que se hubiera esperado. Este resultado apoya la teora expresado por Moerman et al. sobre la influencia de un conocimiento de la etnofarmacopea holrtica que ha sido transmitido desde tiempos prehistricos. Sin embargo comprobamos que existe una clara influencia neotropical en la farmacopea Popoluca por lo cual concluimos que adems de los conocimientos sobre taxa especficos transmitidos histricamente, el hipottico "patrn comn de sabidura humana" citado por Moerman et al. se refiere tambin a "criterios comunes de seleccin." /// Whrend einer ethnobotanischen Feldstudie untersuchten wir die Medizinalpflanzen der Popoluca in der Sierra de Santa Marta (stliches Mexiko). Wir wandten Moermans Methode der Regressionsanalyse an, um die ethnomedizinisch berreprsentierten (z. B. Asteraceae) und unterreprsentierten Taxa (z. B. Orchidaceae) dieser Ethnopharmakope zu bestimmen. Moerman et al., welche eine hohe Korrelation zwischen holarktischen Pharmakopen fanden, vermuten, dass neben der Verwandschaft der nrdlichen Flora ein "globales Muster menschlichen Wissens" fr dieses Ergebnis verantwortlich ist. Die Popoluca, welche in einem Habitat siedeln, in dem die neotropische Flora dominiert, aber klare holarktische Einflsse aufweist, schliessen bedeutend weniger neotropische Elemente in ihre Pharmakope mit ein, als man erwarten wrde, wenn nicht historisch tradiertes Wissen ihre Selektion beeinflussen wrde. Dieses Ergebnis besttigt die Theorie von Moerman et al. Da jedoch in der Pharmakope der Popoluca ein bestimmter Teil der neotropischen Flora vertreten ist, besteht eine moderate Korrelation zu der von Moerman et al. analysierten neotropischen Pharmakope. Daher schlussfolgern wir, dass das von Moerman et al. vermutete "globale Muster menschlichen Wissens" nebst historisch tradiertem phytomedizinischem Wissen ber spezifische Taxa vor allem auch auf "gemeinsamen Selektionskriterien" beruht. 
4254357| Electrophoretic and serological studies with proteins extracted from the pollen of 12 races of maize (Zea mays) have proved valuable in distinguishing among these races. Both sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and double immunodiffusion (Ouchterlony method) were used to analyze the extracted pollen proteins. Jaccard's similarity coefficient was calculated from the data generated by 2-state scoring of the band patterns obtained in each system. Average linkage cluster analysis of the similarity matrices was used to construct phenograms illustrating the similarity among the extracts. The racial groupings indicated in these phenograms, when compared with those of several morphological studies, show some general agreement. However, there are differences, the most notable being that Chalqueo appeared the most dissimilar of the races studied and that Dulce showed high similarity to Palomero Toluqueo, rather than being an exceptional race as it is usually considered. The possible bearing of the groupings of the races in these phenograms with respect to genetic lineage and selection of maize is discussed. 
4287945|Kerosene extracts of petals of several species of flowering plants demonstrate insecticidal properties equivalent to or better than that of 11% Pyrethrum extract, a standard insecticide against indoor insects.
4254868|Economic botany, like botany, had its origin with the herbalists. Its development was encouraged by various European rulers during the Age of Exploration and Discovery in the 16th century. Recent developments in the United States include A. F. Hill's textbook, Economic Botany, in 1937, the founding of the journal Economic Botany by E. H. Fulling in 1947, and the formation of the Society for Economic Botany in 1959. Some of the breakthroughs in the development of agriculture, beginning with its origin some 10,000 yr ago, are given. It is concluded that we now need another significant breakthrough to feed the world's population adequately in the year 2000. Some look to genetic engineering to provide such a breakthrough.
4254479|Common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) has been identified as a potential whole-plant source of polyphenol, oil, and polymeric hydrocarbon. Based on in situ sampling, a range of 4.7-14.4% (dry weight) polyphenol + oil (variation significant at 1% level) and 0.2-1.2% polymeric hydrocarbon (variation significant at 5% level) were found among 48 Maryland and northern Virginia populations. In a 2-yr replicated evaluation of progenies from 41 populations, significant differences (5% level) in vigor, Aphis nerii feeding preference, numbers of plants surviving the seeding year, and numbers of tillers produced the second year were observed. Genetic variation for agronomic traits was generally small, but appeared sufficient to justify a breeding program. Excluding aphid feeding-preference, all agronomic variables were positively correlated with each other (significant at 1% level); aphid feeding-preference was weakly, negatively correlated with the remaining agronomic variables (significant at 1% level). Chemical and agronomic data were not significantly correlated. Factor analysis indicated that plants which performed well early in their life cycle would be expected to perform well on a long term basis. Based on cluster analysis, the environment in which some populations developed may have affected in situ production of polyphenols + oil and polymeric hydrocarbon as well as the subsequent agronomic performance of their progenies.
4252136|Of the 200 alkaloids in the relatively well-studied Apocynaceae, only 75 have had sufficient chemical investigation to permit their structural identity. Nonetheless, certain correlations are discernible and may be used by the plant chemist as first approximations of the types of materials he may expect in the analysis of previously unstudied genera.
4255178| The recommendation that condoms be used to limit the transmission of AIDS has resulted in their increased utilization. One major brand of non-lubricated condoms was demonstrated to be coated with Lycopodium clavatum spores, a product of known hazardous nature. Used previously in the manufacture of diverse products including hair powder, suppositories, and surgical gloves, these spores have caused allergic reactions ranging from hay-fever to more serious giant cell granulomas. This foreign-body response can simulate neoplastic disease, tuberculosis, or syphilis. Physicians should take note of the possibility that granulomatous masses on areas of the body that come in contact with condoms could be traced to these spores. These granulomas are non-lethal, do not lead to cancer, and are easily remedied; this is a relatively minor health problem compared to AIDS, a lethal, sexually acquired disease that might be contracted through sexual activity unprotected by condoms. /// Le conseil d'utiliser le prservatif afin de limiter la transmission du SIDA, s'est traduit par une augmentation de leur emploi. Une des principales marques de prservatifs non-lubrifis a dmontr que cux-ci deuvraient tre enduits par les spores de Lycopodium clavatum, un produit originaire de notre nature reconnue comme dangereuse. Utiliss auparauant, dans la fabrication de multiples produits tels que la poudre pour cheveux, les suppositoires et les gants chirurgicaux, ces spores ont provoqu des ractions allergiques  un degr, s'chelonnant: de la Fievre des foins vers de plus normes et srieuses cellules granulomas. Cette raction au contact d'un corps tranger peut feindre soit une maladie noplastique, la tuberculose ou la syphilis. Les mdecins deuvraient considrer, l'ventualit pour ces masses granulomatous prsentes sur les rgions du corps, qui se rvlent en contact avec les prservatifs, auraient pour origine ces spores. Les granulomas ne sont pas mortelles, ne sont pas cancrignes, et se gurissent aisment; il s'agit d'un problme de sant relativement mineur compar au SIDA, une maladie sexuelle et mortelle qui serait contracte  la suite d'une relation sexuelle non-protge par le prservatif. 
4254985|Folk medicine practiced in southwestern Saudi Arabia has helped people prevent and cure various diseases and sicknesses such as rheumatism, asthma, diabetes, stomach problems, constipation, eye and ear problems, colds, fever, measles, bladder and urinary diseases, toothache, epilepsy, and skin allergy. The most common medicinal plants found in the region belong to the Leguminosae, Labiatae, Compositae, and Euphorbiaceae.
4255545| Eighty-one cultivated and 55 wild accessions were characterized using one- and two-dimensional isoelectric focusing (1D and 2D IEF)/SDS-PAGE and immuno-detection techniques to examine genetic diversity present within cultivated and wild taxa in Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. Twenty-seven unique banding patterns were identified in the vignin (or G1) fraction of the major seed storage proteins. These patterns were controlled by at least four interacting genes, two of which were tightly linked and a third which also may be linked. Due to the tremendous amount of variation in these wild taxa it is not possible to make definitive statements about either the taxonomic or geographic distribution of vignin types. These results give no final answer to the identity of the progenitor of cowpea or the center of domestication, but do pose some interesting questions to be asked as the genetic relationships among the wild and cultivated taxa in this species are unraveled. / Quatre-vingt-un formes cultives et 55 formes sauvages ont t analyses par lectrophorse en gel de polyacrylamide-SDS  une et deux dimensions et par immuno-detection afin d'examiner la diversit gntique de Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. Vingt-sept patrons uniques de bandes ont t identifis dans la fraction de la vignine, la protine principale de la semence. Ces patrons sont contrls par au moins quatre gnes, deux desquels sont fortement lis tandis qu'un troisime pourrait l'tre. A cause du niveau de variation trs lev parmi les formes sauvages, il ne nous a pas t possible d'tablir des conclusions fermes au sujet de la distribution gographique et taxonomique des diffrents types de vignine. Nos rsultats n'apportent pas de rponse dfinitive quant  l'identit des formes ancestrales du nib et la localisation du ou des centres de domestication; en revenche, ils permettent de poser d'intressantes questions sur les relations entre formes sauvages et cultives de cette espce afin de guider des recherches futures. 
4255310| Attention is directed to the latent possibilities of Polymnia sonchifolia (Asteraceae), long cultivated in the Andean cloud forest for its tuberous, inulin-reserving roots. /// Se llama la atencin sobre las posibilidades latentes de Polymnia sonchifolia (Asteraceae), que desde hace tiempo se la cultiva en el bosque nublado andino por sus races tuberosas que reservan inulina. 
4256247| In the Origin of Maize Controversy, the Orthodox Teosinte Hypothesis (OTH; Beadle 1939, 1972; Iltis 1971), five key mutations change 2-ranked (distichous) ears of teosinte (wild Zea) with a single row of grains per rank to 4- to many-ranked (polystichous) maize ears with a double row of grains per rank. BUT teosinte ears are lateral to the
4252969|Cucurbita foetidissima HBK., a wild perennial xerophytic species indigenous to semi-arid lands of North America is reproduced primarily vegetatively, but is a prolific producer of fruit and seed. The seed contains an acceptable edible oil. Fruit development reaches its maximum weight 10 days after pollination, but seed development continues until 32 to 34 days after pollination. Physiological development of the seed as measured by germination is not coincidental with physical development.
4252093|Beginning in prehistoric times, man has continuously sought to obtain vegetables of progressively greater productivity and better conformity to his ever increasing requirements. Today's breeders must use the most modern knowledge and devices in efforts to keep abreast of new demands that grow out of our fast moving, mechanized, industrialized ways of working and living. Varieties are being modified more successfully than ever before to meet changing requirements, but always something more is desired.
4255336| The origin, history, botanical description, ecology, soils, pests, and diseases of the fiber plant curagua (Ananas lucidus, Bromeliaceae) are presented in an attempt to promote its cultivation and thus improve the income of the inhabitants of the Venezuelan tropical rain forest. /// El origen, descripcin botnica, ecologa, suelos, plagas, y enfermedades de la curagua (Ananas lucidus, Bromeliaceae) son discutidos, en un intento por estimular su siembra y as, mejorar los ingresos de las etnias que habitan el bosque tropical hmedo de Venezuela. 
4252070|This crop, valuable for pasturage and feed grain, is largely confined to the southern and eastern States, and northward extension of its range is promised by the prospects of success in breeding cold-resistant varieties.
4252112|Because of a local law, limiting land operated by any one source of private capital to 2,500 acres, rubber plantations have not been extensively developed in the Philippines, but there are at present seven plantations within this limitation in the islands.
4287981|Rice, Afghanistan's third most important crop, is produced in every province. Although about thirteen varieties occur in the country, for marketing purposes two main classes are recognized. These two, "Loke" and "Mai-een", are differentiated on the basis of grain size, color, consistency, and distribution.
4255088|Ethnomedicinal information was collected from the Betsimisaraka-the inhabitants of the Maroantsetra Region in the northeastern part of Madagascar-during a recent expedition to the region. In spite of the inhabitants' rich knowledge of and willingness to discuss medicinal uses of plants, from both disturbed areas and undisturbed primary rainforests, it was found that much ethnomedicinal information has not been documented. There is an urgent need to further develop and document this ethnomedicinal information and also to protect the medicinal plants, some of which could be lost as a result of deforestation and invasion by foreign weed species.
4255709| The cultivated vegetable crops of the world are listed by family and Latin binomial, followed by the common name(s) in English, Arabic, Chinese (Mandarin), Danish, Dutch, French, German, Hindi, Italian, Japanese, Malay, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, and Tagalog. The edible portion of the plant utilized for food and the general method of preparation were reviewed and listed. / Apresentase uma lista das culturas olercolas cultivadas no Mundo organizadas por famlias e os seus nomes latinos seguidos dos respectivos nomes vulgares em Ingls, rabe, Chins (Mandarin), Dinamarqus, Holands, Francs, Alemo, Hindu, Italiano, Japons, Malaio, Portugus, Russo, Espanhol e Tagalogue. Para cada uma das culturas refere-se qual a sua parte comestvel e o seu modo de preparao na alimentao. 
4256678| The North American commercial incense copals are derived from species of Bursera, Protium (Burseraceae), and Hymenaea (Caesalpiniaceae) but are also distinguished by the technique of harvesting as well as by species. Sixty-eight compounds were identified in three commercial incense copals. The essential oil of copal blanco (probably from B. bipinnata) is dominated by 14.52  1.28% -copaene and 13.75  1.06% germacrene D. The essential oil of copal oro (probably from H. courbaril) is dominated by 21.35  5.96% -pinene and 26.51  1.22% limonene. The essential oil of copal negro (probably from P. copal) is dominated by 17.95  1.35% -pinene, 12.51  0.08% sabinene, and 16.88  2.02% limonene. /// Los copales comerciales norteamericanas del incienso se derivan de las especies de Bursera, Protium (Burseraceae), y Hymenaea (Caesalpiniaceae) pero tambin son distinguidos por la tcnica de cosechar as como por las especies. Sesenta y ocho compuestos fueron identificados en tres copales comerciales del incienso. El aceite esencial del copal blanco (probablemente de B. bipinnata) es dominado por el -copaene(14.52  1.28%) y el germacrene D (13.75  1.06%). El aceite esencial del copal oro (probablemente de H. courbaril) es dominado por el -pinene (21.35  5.96%) y el limonene (26.51  1.22%). El aceite esencial del copal negro (probablemente de P. copal) es dominado por el -pinene (17.95  1.35%), el sabinene (12.51  0.08%), y el limonene (16.88  2.02%). 
4255272| Lycopersicon esculentum var. cerasiforme and closely allied biotypes of the species are widely distributed as wild or feral forms in the eastern Andean foothills of the Ceja de la Montaa, Per and equivalent areas of Bolivia and Ecuador. As assayed by allozymic variation at 20 loci and five monogenic morphological loci, the extent of their genetic variation, although relatively low, is sufficient to provide clues as to their hybridity, phylogeny, and possible affiliations with cultivated tomatoes. According to interviews with agronomists, growers, and aboriginals, this entity is seldom cultivated and is not considered indigenous. The level of genetic variation is higher in the central San Martn-Ayacucho region and decreases northward and southward. Tarapoto (Bajo Mayo, Departamento San Martn) is a district of high variability for fruit shape, size, and color, although within the range of allozyme variability for the central region. Allele substitution for a few genes could account for this variation, which grades continuously to the small fruits of var. cerasiforme. Introgression between the latter and introduced cultivars could account for this complex. Rather high levels of cross-pollination estimated for the Bajo Mayo (and other parts of the central area) are compatible with this hypothesis. The presence of several variant alleles in the central region and throughout the coastal populations of var. cerasiforme and of L. pimpinellifolium suggests an affiliation between them, the latter presumably ancestral. According to the total evidence, the eastern Andes seems to be a secondary center of variability, probably not the primary site of domestication of the cultivated tomato. 
4256606|Archaeological studies of plant remains have indicated that an increase in seed size is frequently correlated with both intensive cultivation and domestication of seed crop plants. To test if starch granules of domesticated root crops are significantly larger than those of wild or less intensively cultivated plants, archaeological and modern specimens of manioc and sweet potato were sampled for starch granules, and granule size was compared across a temporal sequence. The results indicate that a gross generalization can be made that modern specimens of both manioc and sweet potato yield larger starch granules than some archaeological specimens. It does appear, however, that modern domesticated manioc roots produce significantly larger-sized starch granules than those of its purported wild ancestor. Additionally, there exist two lines of evidence that the coastal Peruvian and lowland Neotropical regional types of manioc differ from one another and have been separate for several millennia. These findings indicate that manioc may have been domesticated more than once.
4257141| Twenty breadfruit cultivars growing in a field genebank at Kahanu Garden, National Tropical Botanical Garden, Hana, Maui, Hawaii, were evaluated for sensory attributes and nutrient composition. A taste panel scored eight flavor/aroma attributes, five textural attributes, and color. There were significant differences (P  0.01) in aroma, visual texture, flavor intensity, sweetness, starchiness, moistness, stringiness, firmness, and color. The greatest differences were in color and texture. Nutrient analyses showed significant differences (P  0.05) for energy, carbohydrates, ash, crude protein, potassium, magnesium, sodium, iron, copper, and zinc. Considering the versatility of breadfruit as a food, its ease of production, and its nutritional value, the numerous good quality flavorful cultivars available should be more widely grown for sustainable agriculture and food security. 
4287806|The halophytic plants of this genus may be a potentially valuable source of protein for the food industry.
4256991|The diversity of Indian lichen flora has undergone a considerable decline in the last five decades. Among the various anthropogenic activities, overexploitation and selective removal of economically important lichens have become major threats to the lichen flora of the country. Commercial samples of lichens collected from different states of India were studied for their source and commercial use. Among samples offered for sale, 38 different lichen species were identified. The western Himalayas proved to be the main area for lichen collection, while some lichen species also come from the central and Western Ghats. Local traders coordinate the lichen collection and then sell the material to traders in the foothills, and from there it is processed and distributed to other parts of the country and abroad. Because lichens belonging to the families Parmeliaceae and Physciaceae are the ones most exploited commercially, they are recommended for inclusion in the CITES list.
4256253| Pecans are native to a number of states in southern and midwestern United States and to scattered locations in Mexico, but are most common in Texas, Oklahoma, and Louisiana. They have been growing over their present range in the U. S. for at least 8000 years and, based on archaeological and ethnohistoric data, were an important source of food for people who inhabited certain areas within this range in prehistoric and early historic times. In addition to being fixed in space and highly productive, pecan groves produce a food that requires little processing to be suitable for human consumption. However, the groves have strong biennial production cycles so that yield in a given region can vary dramatically from year to year. The groves comprising the greatest concentrations of pecans in the U. S. may have influenced the formation of prehistoric territories and thus affected interregional exchange through reciprocal resource-sharing alliances. / El nogal pecanero o nuez pecanera es producto de un rbol originario de algunos estados del sur y del medioeste de los Estados Unidos. Tambin se encuentra en algunas localidades mexicanas. La mayor concentracin de arboledas de tipo nativo se encuentra en los estados de Texas, Oklahoma, y Louisiana. El nogal pecanero ha existido adonde hoy se encuentra por lo menos por unos 8000 aos. Basndose en datos arqueolgicos y etnohistricos, constitua un alimento humano de importancia en tiempos prehistricos y a comienzos del perodo histrico. El nogal pecanero provee un recurso productivo y de ubicacin constante y conocida. Adems, las nueces se pueden comer sin mucho procesamiento. Los arboles tienen un ciclo de dos aos, asi que la produccion de cualquier region especifica no es constante. Se propone que las regiones de mayor concentracin de nogal pecanero hayan tenido una influencia importante en la formacin de los territorios prehistricos. Tambin se propone que estas regiones hayan sido importantes en el intercambio regional, a travs de sistemas de reciprocidad in compartir los recursos naturales. 
4255284| At least two species of Amazonian sedges (piripiri, i.e., Cyperus articulatus and C. prolixus, Cyperaceae) are widely utilized for various medicinal purposes, including birth control and induction of labor, and in hallucinogenic preparations. Examination of herbarium specimens collected from throughout South America and of living specimens collected in Ecuador has revealed that plants are infected by the systemic, ascomycetous fungus Balansia cyperi. This fungus is classified in the Clavicipitaceae and is known to infect only six species of Cyperus, including both North and South American species. Pure cultures of the fungus were obtained from two species of piripiri from Ecuador and C. virens from southern USA, and grown in submerged liquid culture. Extracts of the liquid medium revealed several unidentified ergot alkaloids. Current and past pharmacological uses of ergot alkaloids are consistent with uses of piripiri, suggesting a fungal basis for the ethnobotanical utilization of piripiri in Amazonia. /// Dos especies de Cyperus de Amazona (Cyperus articulatus y Cyperus prolixus, Cyperaceae) tienen varios usos medicinales tales como anticonceptivos, inductores del parto, y alucingenos. El exmen de ejemplares de herbario colectados a travs de Sudamrica y de plantas vivas colectadas en Ecuador ha demostrado que las plantas estn infectadas por un hongo sistmico de la familia Clavicipitaceae (Ascomycetes): Balansia cyperi. La infeccin de este hongo se conoce nicamente en seis especies de Cyperus nativas de Norteamrica y de Sudamrica. Obtuvimos cultivos puros del hongo pertenecientes a dos especies de "piripiri" de Ecuador y de Cyperus virens del sur de los Estados Unidos, los cuales fueron cultivados en medio lquido. Extractos del medio de cultivo revelaron varios alcaloides desconocidos del tipo ergot. Los usos medicinales actuales y pasados de estos alcaloides son consistentes con los usos del piripiri, lo que sugiere que el hongo es responsable del uso etnobotnico del piripiri en Amazona. 
4256286| The inflorescence of Aponogeton distachyos, an endemic Cape South African aquatic herb, known as waterblommetjie, has been a traditional wild-gathered vegetable. This plant has been brought into cultivation as a food crop during the past twenty years. The reasons for its domestication were the loss and decline in wild populations because of herbicide runoff from agriculture, urban expansion that reduced the plant's habitat, and over-collection. Domestication also began because a pop song, celebrating this vegetable as an Afrikaans cultural symbol, started a food fad that greatly increased demand. Waterblommetjie cultivation, widespread marketing, and the general popularity of this unique food continues in the Mandela Era of South Africa. /// La inflorecencia de Aponogeton distachyos, una hierba cuatica endmica al Cabo de Buena Esperanza, Africa, conocido como waterblommetjie, ha sido una vegetal silvestere tradicional. La planta se ha adoptada para la cultivacin dentro los ltimos veinte aos. Las razones por domesticarla fueron la perdida y el declino de las poblaciones silvestres por cause del escurrimiento de los herbicidas de reas agrciolas, la expansin urbana la qual redujo el rea de hbitat de la planta, y su cosecha excesiva. Adems, su domesticacin empez porque una cancin popular la cual celebr esta verdura como un smbolo cultural africaans empez una moda en la comida la cual aument mucho la demanda. La cultivacin de waterblommetjie, el mercado extendido, y la popularidad general de esta nica comida continuan durante la era de Mandela en Sudfrica. 
4256250| Medicinal plants are essential in the medical systems of the Mixe and Zapotec. In this study ethno-ecological strategies, employed by the two neighboring Indian groups in Mexico, for obtaining medicinal plants are analyzed. The indigenous classification of the environment is notably different from the Western one and distinguishes six dissimilar principal "zones" or land use types. Most ethnomedically important species are cultivated in the "house garden" or gathered in the community or its immediate surroundings. The house garden, for example, contributes 31.8% and 26.2% of all medical taxa for the Mixe and Zapotec, respectively. These ethnobotanical data on the indigenous uses indicate that anthropogenic types of vegetation yield the largest percentage of medicinal taxa. / Plantas medicinales son una parte esencial de los sistemas mdicos de los Mixe y Zapotecos. En este estudio se analizan las estrategias etnoecolgicas empleadas por los dos grupos indigenas vecinos para obtener plantas medicinales. La clasificacin indigena del ambiente es notablemente diferente de la clasificacin occidental y distingue seis zonas principales disimilares (o tipos de uso de la tierra). La mayoria de las especies de importancia etnomdica se cultiva en los solares o se recolecta en la comunidad o en la zona alrededor de la comunidad. El solar, por ejemplo, contribuye 31.8% y 26.2% de todas las plantas mediciniales de los Mixe y Zapotecos, respectivamente. Estos datos etnobotnicos sobre el uso indigena de la tierra indican que los tipos de vegetacin antropognica son muy importantes para la obtencin de la gran mayoria de las plantas medicinales. / Arzneipflanzen sind ein wesentlicher Bestandteil des Medizinsystems der Mixe und Zapoteken. In dieser Untersuchung werden die ethnokologischen Strategien, die von den beiden Indianergruppen zur Sicherstellung einer ausreichenden Versorgung mit Arzneipflanzen eingesetzt werden, untersucht. Die indigene Klassifizierung der Umwelt unterscheidet sich deutlich von der westlichen und differenziert sechs verschiedene Landnutzungszonen. Die meisten arzneilich wichtigen Taxa werden auf den Hfen angebaut oder direkt im Ort oder seiner direkten Umgebung gesammelt. Der Hof liefert beispielsweise 31.8% bzw. 26.2% aller Arzneipflanzen der Mixe bzw. der Zapoteken. Diese ethnobotanischen Informationen ber die indigenen Verwendungsstrategien zeigen, dass anthropogene Landnutzungsformen den grssten Anteil an arzneilich genutzten Taxa liefern. 
4255879| Pepino, Solanum muricatum, is an herbaceous subshrub that has long been grown in its native Andean South America. Pepino is usually cultivated for its edible fruits, but also has other economic uses. In spite of being a prominent crop in prehispanic times in the Andes, interest in pepino was cast into oblivion from some decades after the Spanish arrival to the present. Pepino etymology, prehispanic distribution, and postcolumbian dispersal are presented, with emphasis on outstanding historical aspects. Speculations on why the pepino has been neglected are also given. These include some features of pepino itself together with misconceptions. However, the pepino is today a species of increasing economic interest, and has a considerable potential for future exploitation. /// El pepino dulce (Solanum muricatum), es una planta herbcea que ha sido cultivada durante mucho tiempo en los Andes, su zona de origen. El pepino dulce normalmente se cultiva por sus frutos comestibles, aunque tambin tiene otros usos de importancia econmica. A pesar de ser un cultivo importante en la zona andina durante la poca precolombina, desde unas dcadas despus de la llegada de los espaoles en adelante, el inters por el pepino dulce cay en el olvido. En este artculo se presentan la etimologa, distribucin en la poca precolombina y su difusin postcolombina, haciendo particular nfasis en los aspectos histricos ms destacados. Tambin se dan algunas razones que podran haber tenido influencia para marginar al pepino dulce. Entre stas se incluyen algunas caractersticas propias del pepino dulce junto con falsas creencias. Sin embargo, en la actualidad, el pepino dulce es una planta con un inters econmico creciente y con un potencial considerable para su explotacin en el futuro. 
4254221|The remains of carbonized plants recovered from sites destroyed by Mount Vesuvius in A.D. 79 furnish valuable historical evidence on many staple food plants used by the ancient Campanians of the 1st century A.D. Carbonized seeds, grains, nuts, and fruits of 24 species identified from documented materials at Pompeii, Herculaneum, and the Roman villa at Torre Annunziata include: filbert, Corylus avellana; broadbean, Vicia faba var. minor; bittervetch, Vicia ervilia; chickpea, Cicer arietinum; carob, Ceratonia siliqua; lentil, Lens culinaris; European chestnut, Castanea sativa; English or Persian walnut, Juglans regia; common onion, Allium cepa; garlic, Allium sativum; fig, Ficus carica; olive, Olea europaea; date, Phoenix dactylifera; stone pine, Pinus pinea; six-rowed barley, Hordeum vulgare; emmer wheat, Triticum dicoccon; common millet, Panicum miliaceum; Italian millet, Setaria italica; oat, Avena sativa; almond, Prunus dulcis; sour cherry, Prunus cerasus; pear, Pyrus communis; crabapple, Malus sp.; and grape, Vitis vinifera.
4255130|Evidence is brought to indicate that the domestication of lentil and pea is not very different from that of wheat and barley. All these Near East crops are characterized by basically the same domestication traits the key elements of which are breakdown of the wild mode of seed dispersal and loss of germination regulation. It is argued that both in the pulses and in the cereals these traits evolved in the same way. The changes are best explained by assuming that mutations causing the loss of the wild-type adaptations were automatically selected for soon after people transferred the wild progenitors into a system of planting and reaping.
4255528| Henequn (Agave fourcroydes) is believed to have been domesticated by the Maya from Agave angustifolia and has been of great economical and cultural relevance in the Mexican State of Yucatan since pre-Hispanic times. Although at the beginning of this century, the recorded diversity included eight cultivated variants, our ethnobotanical exploration reveals only three, one of them in very small populations. Three wild variants with different fiber quality and possibly three ecotypes were found in our study. The documented use of agaves in the Peninsula of Yucatan is as a source of fiber. However, ethnobotanical exploration revealed that wild and cultivated variants have over 40 traditional uses. Medicinal use is the most diverse, followed by its use in construction, as utensils, and for textiles. The most frequent uses are as fiber, fuel, construction material, and medicine. One of the most interesting uses of these species is as food; this may have been important in the domestication of the plant. / Presumiblemente domesticado por los mayas a partir de Agave angustifolia Haw., el henequn (Agave fourcroydes Lem.) ha mantenido gran relevancia economica y cultural en el estado mexicano de Yucatan. De acuerdo a la exploracion etnobotanica realizada, la diversidad registrada a principios de siglo, de ocho variantes cultivadas, ha sido reducida a tres, una de ellas en poblaciones muy pequenas. Para la especie silvestre, la exploracion revelo tres variantes distintas en calidad de fibra y tres posibles ecotipos. Su uso pasado y presente mas documentado es el de fibra. Sin embargo, la exploracion etnobotanica indico que actualmente tanto las variantes cultivadas como las silvestres, reciben mas que 40 formas de uso tradicional. El uso mas diverso es el medicinal, seguido de los de construccion, utensilio y textil. Sus usos mas frecuentes son los de fibra, combustible, construccion y finalmente del medicinal. Uno de sus usos mas interesantes es el alimenticio, ya que este pudo haber tenido importancia en fases historicamente incipientes de su evolucion bajo seleccion del hombre. 
4255158| The Malayo-Oceanic tropics have long been regarded as a center for plant domestication, but archaeology has as yet contributed little direct evidence of the processes of domestication in prehistory. Recent excavations of Lapita culture sites in the Mussau Islands dating to 1600-500 B.C. have yielded the first significant assemblage of preserved seeds and other floral remains representing 20+ taxa. Nearly all of these are tree crops of widespread importance in Malayo-Oceanic cultivation systems. These materials confirm that the Lapita culture, responsible for the initial human settlement of much of the southwestern Pacific, included developed arboriculture in its economic system. /// Les tropiques Malayo-Ocaniques ont t longtemps considrs comme un centre pour la domestication des plantes; or les preuves manifestes de processus de domestication fournis jusqu'ici par l'archologie sont trs limites. Les fouilles rcentes des sites de culture Lapita dans les les de Mussau, datant de 1600-500 avant J.C. ont produit le premier ensemble significatif de graines prserves et autres vestiges floraux reprsentant 20+ taxa. Presque toutes sont des varits d'arbres fortement rpandues dans les systmes de culture Malayo-Ocaniques. Ceci confirme que le systme conomique de la culture Lapita, responsable de la colonisation humaine initiale d'une grande partie du Pacifique Sud-Ouest, comprenait une arboriculture dveloppe. 
4287920|Southern Europe, especially the part of Yugoslavia known as Dalmatia, has long been the principal source of this condiment, so popular in American culinary art. Commercial cultivation of the herb in the United States has been meagre, and supplies of true sage (Salvia officinalis) have been augmented by many adulterants, especially Greek sage (Salvia triloba) also from Mediterranean countries.
4256779|The density of neem trees in parts of Malindi District in eastern Kenya was assessed to determine the sustainability of their use in the local woodcarving industry. Size and age structure of neem populations under different ownership were analyzed to establish the Annual Allowable Cut. Neem is an excellent carving wood and the available quantities along the Kenyan coast are sufficient to sustainably supply the industry of the whole country. However, because the resource comes from small farm holdings and the supply system to carving groups is not well established, further efforts are required to introduce a management regime that could be certified under the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council.
4287997|Arundo donax has played an important role in the culture of the western world through its influence on the development of music. Reeds for woodwind musical instruments are still made from the culms, and no satisfactory substitutes have been developed. This grass has also been used as a source of cellulose for rayon and considered as a source of paper pulp.
4256934|A survey of plant biodiversity and ethnobotanical studies was conducted in southern Ethiopia using an integrated approach of botanical collections, group discussions, interviews and questionnaires. Species richness, growth forms and uses of native wild plants are described. Borana pastoralists distinguished and named 86% of the plant species identified. A total of 327 plant species distributed among 197 genera and 69 families are documented: 40% are trees/shrubs, 30% forbs (non-woody plants other than grasses and sedges), 16% grasses, 10% climbers, 2% sedges and 2% succulents. Based on richness of species and usefulness, the most important families are Poaceae, Fabaceae, Lamiaceae and Asteraceae. Two hundred forty-eight species (76%) are used by Borana pastoralists, out of which 42% have multiple uses. Indigenous knowledge of pastoralists on use and management of their plant resources is a valuable source of information for conservation and sustainable utilization of the plant biodiversity and, hence, conservation based on indigenous knowledge is recommended.
4288002|Successful chemotherapy is obtained at present with the antibiotics, such as streptomycin, for certain bacterial and virus diseases of plants. Promising results have been obtained with chemotherapeutic chemicals other than the antibiotics in the control of plant diseases caused by species of such fungi as Botrytis, Fusarium, and Phytophthora.
4251956|This red alga, harvested commercially along the shores of Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia and New England, is today processed by five American companies into an extractive that finds a major market as a stabilizer in dairy products and enters also into the manufacture of a variety of other products ranging from beer to toothpaste.
4252728|All flours contain a microbial population consisting of fungi and bacteria. This population varies greatly in numbers, but the flora is rather constant in the types of microorganisms present.
4252084|Although ample evidence has been gathered to show that citrus can be grown in many parts of West Africa, relatively little of it is cultivated there at present because of difficulties in transportation and communication. Shifting agriculture is still characteristic of the region, and tradition makes the growing of any introduced tree crop difficult.
4255279| There are, at the present time, effectively no long-range, ongoing programs in any tropical country of the western hemisphere dedicated to the improvement of cacao (Theobroma cacao, Sterculiaceae). While some effort is currently made to obtain new acquisitions of cacao cultivars exhibiting desirable characteristics and to maintain genepools of these trees, there are few data from field trials to prove and substantiate these qualities. In addition, there is a growing concern regarding the disparities between predicted yields of cacao trees through the use of "hybrid" seed and from actual production under field conditions. This has stimulated an awareness of the current inadequate understanding of the genetics of cacao and the lack of comprehension as to which cultivars, under distinct ecological conditions, are precocious, resistant to disease, or heavy bearing, or indeed demonstrate those traits vital to the success of farming programs adapted to today's market conditions. This paper examines the events that have led to the current status of selection, development, and breeding of cacao. Alternative approaches are suggested. /// En la actualidad no existe en el nuevo mundo ningn proyecto de largo plazo dedicado al mejoramiento del cacao (Theobroma cacao, Sterculiaceae). Mientras se han realizado algunos esfuerzos dirigidos al mantenamiento de colecciones y adquisiciones de variedades de cacao que muestran caractersticas deseables, hay pocos datos reales para confirmar dichas cualidades. Mas an, la preocupacin esta aumentando acerca de la discrepancia entre produccin real y lo pronosticado para arboles procedentes de semillas "hbridas" de cacao. Lo anterior ha estimulado incertidumbre sobre el conocimiento de la gentica del cacao y la falta de entendimiento sobre qu clones, bajo de regmenes ecolgicos distintos, son precoces, tienen resistencia contra enfermedades, y alta produccin, o muestran aquellas caractersticas vitales para el xito de programas agrcolas adaptados para el mercado corriente. Este trabajo examina la manera en que estas deficiencias en seleccin, desarrollo, y mejoramiento de cacao han ocurrido. Se sugieren alternativas a la situacin actual. 
4254732|Various methods of cassava preparation are practised by different ethnic groups in Nigeria. These methods involve peeling cassava roots, soaking roots in streams, grating cassava, and pressing grated cassava. Other methods include heating sieved, grated cassava, boiling peeled cassava roots, and pounding boiled or dried cassava roots. The traditional, cassava-based products are gari, fufu, akpu, cassava flour, edible starch, and tapioca. Detoxification of fresh cassava roots is partly achieved through cell rupture during cutting and grating, soaking in running or standing water in earthen pots for 3-5 days, heating, drying, and boiling.
4257059| The use of "average" yields to formulate models of premodern agriculture obscures the dynamic components of agricultural decision-making. Using colonial documents and archaeological data from the Deccan region of central India, this paper illustrates the complexities of how ancient peoples mitigated fluctuations in agricultural yields. Nineteenth-century documents show striking differences in yields from year to year, and illustrate the way in which people compensated for those fluctuations by using wild foods and cultivating alternate crops that were less palatable but more reliable. Archaeobotanical, archaeological, and textual data from the Chalcolithic to the Early Historic periods (c. 1500 B.C. to 300 A.D.) indicate similar adaptive strategies, in which the early inhabitants of the region managed resources at the household level to provide subsistence security as well as the steady provision of a tradable surplus. /// Les analyses d'agriculture prmoderne, fondes sur un modle de rcoltes "moyennes," cachent les complexits de l'usage de plusieurs stratgies d'agriculture ainsi que de ressources naturels. Ici, l'conomie de l'Inde centrale dans les premiers sicles de notre re est tablie par les donnes de la palobotanique et d'archologie, une perspective augmente par l'tude des documents du dix-neuvime sicle. Ces documents indiquent une grand variation de rcoltes d'une saison et d'une anne  l'autre, et que les agriculteurs balanaient leurs besoins de soutenance physique et sociale avec plusieurs stratgies parmi lesquel l'usage des produits forestires taient trs important. L'inclusion des ces paramtres pour la priode premoderne nous permet de reconstruire non seulement les activits agriculturels, mais aussi l'impact de ces activits sur les activits conomiques et sociales outre du foyer domestique. 
4252942|Since its introduction in 1916, the lentil has become a commercially important pulse in the Palouse area of eastern Washington and adjacent Idaho. Trials in the production area indicate that some recent introductions by the United States Department of Agriculture are well adapted to the area. Some of these lines may be useful in a breeding program on lentils.
4253470|In this paper a survey is given of the present knowledge of the medicinal value of May apple, Podophyllum peltatum, a plant which is common in the whole deciduous forest region of eastern North America. Intensive chemical, pharmacological and clinical research has shown that Podophyllum is a very valuable medicinal plant because it contains drugs which can effectively be used against certain virus and skin cancer diseases. The plant is so much in demand in the drug trade that selection of high yielding clones and cultivation might be contemplated. A review of the literature shows that surprisingly little is known yet about the flower biology, seed germination and productivity of this common plant. From various herbarium sources a distribution map has been compiled and the author tries to interpret this by comparing it with a number of climatic parameters. This might stimulate experimental work on the climatic requirements of May apple and it shows where optimum conditions exist for its eventual cultivation on a commercial scale.
4254423|A small hybrid wastewater treatment system consisting of a settling tank in series with an anaerobic filter-reed (Phragmites communis) treatment cell was evaluated and compared with a similar plant-free system. Data demonstrated that by combining anaerobic filters, also referred to as attached film filters, and vascular aquatic plants a synergistic effect is produced which increases the treatment efficiency of each individual system. The plant-free system reduced the
4256740| I studied the uses of the African cherry (Prunus africana) by four ethnic groups who live near the Kilum-Ijim Forest Preserve on Mount Oku, Cameroon. Prunus africana is valued for its timber, which is used for tool handles and for fuel, and it is an important wildlife food. However, its greatest value is for traditional medicines. Healers use the bark and leaves to treat more than 30 human ailments and several animal diseases and it is the most important plant used in their practices. This study is the first to document this importance, particularly for animal medicines. I also examined the growing worldwide herbal use to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia. Market demand has caused resource depletion and an erosion of traditional resource protection practices. Preservation of the species will depend on sustainable harvesting methods and on cultivation. /// J'ai tudi l'emploi de la cerise africaine (Prunus africana) par quatre groupes ethniques rsidant prs de la prserve forestire Kilum-Ijim sur le Mont Oku, au Cameroun. Prunus africana est pris pour son bois, qui est utilis pour fabriquer des manches d'outils, et comme combustible. C'est galement un aliment important pour la faune sauvage. Pourtant, sa plus grande valeur est dans la mdecine traditionnelle. Les gurisseurs en utilisent l'corce et les feuilles pour traiter plus de 30 maladies humaines et plusieurs maladies animales; c'est la plante la plus importante utilise dans leurs cures. Cette tude est la premire  documenter cette importance, particulirement dans le domaine des mdicaments pour les animaux. J'ai aussi examin son usage mondial croissant comme traitement de l'hypertrophie bnigne de la prostate. La demande conomique a caus une dpletion des ressources et une rosion des pratiques traditionnelles de protection des ressources. La prservation de cette espce exigera des mthodes de moisson soutenables ainsi que la cultivation. 
4253889|With an adequate technology, the Romanian Government mechanically harvests 125,000 tons of dry marsh grass (Phragmites communis Trinius) annually from the vast reedlands of the Danube Delta which, when processed, yield up to 60% in unbleached pulp. The reed pulp is mixed with wood pulp in the production of fabricated paper. At $85.00 per ton of reed raw material, the reed pulp industry amounts to over $10 million annual revenue.
4256802|Sweetgrass (Muhlenbergia filipes [M. A. Curtis] J. Pinson and W. Batson) is a coastal, nontimber forest resource ranging from North Carolina southwestward to Texas. The plant has special cultural and economic importance in coastal South Carolina, where the local Gullah community uses this resource in a form of coiled basketry. The plant is becoming increasingly unavailable to basket makers, however, because of habitat destruction, habitat limitation, and private ownership of the resource. This study examines stakeholder involvement in and perceptions of past and current sweetgrass management. Twenty-three interviews were conducted with Charleston, South Carolina area basket makers and were analyzed for emergent themes using content analysis, a technique permitting objective analysis of text. Survey respondents identified residential development as a major cause of sweetgrass inaccessibility and indicated that purchasing raw materials has become standard practice. Furthermore, respondents indicated several potential solutions to the problem and expressed their willingness to contribute time to management efforts.
4287845|In this selective review of surveys made by the Georgia Institute of Technology, attention is drawn to some new or as yet little-exploited sources of fats, oils, waxes, gums, resins and oleoresins that may some day become important supplements to the longer established sources of these industrially valuable plant extractives.
4256394| A survey was conducted of Caiara farmers from Ubatuba in the Brazilian coastland between So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro States regarding the folk-taxonomy for cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) landraces they cultivate and cassava evolutionary dynamics in swidden cultivation. The accuracy of their folk taxonomy was assessed. Cluster analysis was used to make comparisons between names given by the farmers to sampled individuals and their isozyme phenotypes obtained with four isozyme systems. Interviews with farmers were done and ethnobiological data collected. These farmers possess a loose taxonomic system and tend to underestimate cassava genetic diversity in their gardens. However, classification skills vary considerably among them. The accuracy of their taxonomy along with the results of interviews with farmers and ethnobiological data are discussed in light of a proposed evolutionary dynamics model for cultivated cassava and its ecology in tropical swidden cultivation. /// A taxonomia local e a dinmica evolutiva da mandioca foram estudadas na agricultura de corte, queima e abandono entre agricultores caiaras de Ubatuba-SP, Brazil. Avaliou-se, atravs de anlise de agrupamentos, a acurcia da taxonomia local comparandose nomes dados pelos agricultores a indivduos amostrados com seus fentipos isoenzimticos obtidos a partir de quatro sistemas. Entrevistas com os agricultores e coleta de dados etnobiolgicos tambm foram realizadas. Estes agricultores possuem uma taxonomia pouco acurada e tendem a sub-estimar a diversidade gentica da mandioca em suas roas. Entretanto, a habilidade de classificao de etnovariedades varia consideravelmente de agricultor para agricultor. Este fato em conjunto com os dados etnobiologicos e o resultado das entrevistas so discutidos  luz de um modelo proposto para a dinmica evolutiva e da ecologia da mandioca cultivada neste sistema de agricultura. 
4255747| Astrocaryum chambira Burret is native to the western parts of the Amazon basin where indigenous people use it as a source of fiber. Its use among four different indigenous groups in Ecuador is described here. They extract fibers from the pinnae, mostly of the young leaves. Both men and women twist the fibers into strings in their homes after hunting and work in the fields. The main items produced are woven hammocks, bags, and nets. These products represent the main source of cash income for many indigenous people. The highest value for their products is obtained from sale directly to tourists. The commercial use of A. chambira can possibly be increased in extractivism along with better marketing. The variety of ways this palm is used also makes it a valuable species for agroforestry. /// Astrocaryum chambira Burret es nativa de la parte occidental de la cuenca amaznica donde los indgenas la utilizan como una fuente de fibra natural. Aqu se describe su uso por parte de cuatro diferentes grupos indgenas en Ecuador. Ellos extraen las fibras de las pinnas, principalmente de las hojas juveniles. Despus de terminar con la cacera y el trabajo en el campo, de vuelta en casa, tanto hombres como mujeres enrollan las fibras para hacer cuerdas. Los productos principales son hamacas tejidas y redes. Estos productos representan el principal ingreso econmico para muchos indgenas. El mayor ingreso es obtenido de la venta directa a los turistas. El uso comercial de A. chambira posiblemente puede ser incrementado con extractivismo unido a una mejor comercializacin. Mltiples usos podran valorar esta palma para la agro forestera. 
4255248| Nineteen wild and cultivated genotypes of Jerusalem-artichoke (Helianthus tuberosus) whose tubers are used as food were analyzed for protein and mineral content at three stages of growth. The protein content of the tubers is comparable to or higher than that of other common root-type crops. Adequate macrominerals of calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus were found in Jerusalem-artichoke. Potassium and sodium concentrations were higher than other root crops. Trace elements (manganese, zinc, and copper) were present in adequate amounts, with iron content higher than several other root crops. Wild and cultivated Jerusalem-artichoke genotypes appear to contain adequate protein and minerals to contribute significantly toward a nutritionally balanced diet. /// Neunzehn wilde und kultivierte Arten der Erdartischocke (Helianthus tuberosus), deren Knollen als Nahrung benutzt werden, wurden auf Protein und Mineralgehalt in drei Wachstumsstadien analysiert. Der Eiweissgehalt der Knollen ist vergleichbar mit oder hher als der von anderen gewhnlichen wurzelartigen Gemsen. Potassium und Sodium Konzentrationen lagen hher als bei anderen Wurzelgemsen. Spurenelemente (Mangan, Zink und Kupfer) waren in ausreichenden Mengen vorhanden, mit einem Eisengehalt hher als bei verschiedenen anderen Wurzelgemsen. Wilde and kultivierte Erdartischocken Arten scheinen ausreichend Protein und Minerale zu enthalten, um erheblich zu einer nahrhaften ausgewogenen Ernhrung beizutragen. 
4252317|Rapid developments in the field of Natural Products have created a need for methods of storage and retrieval of information of greater utility than abstract journals and monographs. Such a method, based on mechanical sorting of punched cards, is presented with special reference to the alkaloids and their development as drugs.
4254990|Male spadices of kewda (Pandanus fascicularis) are distilled for the production of kewda perfume. About 90% of India's total production of this perfume is obtained from the Ganjam district of Orissa where over 30 million flowers are distilled annually. Kewda attar and kewda water, the most popular preparations of kewda perfume, are mostly used in flavouring tobacco and food. Increasing popularity of kewda perfumes in Arab countries has given impetus to this industry. The industry has been monopolized by a small group of people from northern India who organise collection of flowers and carry out their distillation, using traditionally old methods and equipment. Introduction of superior strains, adoption of improved techniques of distillation, and better organisation of collection system are some of the measures necessary to increase the production and to improve the quality of kewda perfume.
41001201|Breadfruit, Artocarpus altilis (Parkinson) Fosberg, is an important but underutilized staple crop cultivated throughout Oceania and much of the wet tropics. Indigenous peoples have selected and cultivated cultivars with different fruiting seasons to effectively extend fruit production for most of the year. In the present study, the seasonality of 219 breadfruit accessions originating from 17 Pacific island groups, the Seychelles, the Philippines, and Indonesia, and now growing in the National Tropical Botanical Garden's (NTBG) Kahanu Garden, Hana, Hawaii, were evaluated. The predominant season of male flower production for most cultivars was from May to September, and fruit was produced most frequently between August and January. However, there were differences in the duration of the fruiting season from year to year and among cultivars. Over the 10-year period, 14 cultivars did not reliably produce fruit; most of this group were 'ulu afa' trees collected from Tokelau. About 24 cultivars exhibited very little seasonality and produced fruit throughout the year. The rest of the cultivars could be clustered into seasonality groups with characteristic fruiting patterns. Comparison of literature values indicates that unlike Hawaii, the breadfruit season in most locations begins around the date the sun reaches zenith prior to the summer months and extends throughout the summer months. Five cultivars asexually propagated from the NTBG collection growing in Kiribati (128' N) exhibit similar fruiting patterns as in Hawaii, except that they begin 2-3 months earlier. These data predict that cultivars with complementary fruiting seasons in Hawaii may experience a temporal shift in their seasonality but will maintain their compatibility when cultivated in different locations and could enable year-round fruit production in many regions.
4256813|Indigenous people, such as the Tagbanua of Palawan Island in the Philippines, are often considered to be experienced and responsible users of natural resources. The Tagbanua have traditionally been involved in the collection of nonwood forest products (NWFPs) both for trade and for subsistence purposes. The proximity of many Tagbanua communities to the forest allows them easy access to NWFPs, although various restrictions, such as distance from markets, legal land issues, and lack of formal education, prevent them from receiving more favorable earnings from the sale of NWFPs. Similarly, increasing access to manufactured products also lessens dependence on NWFPs for food, medicine, and housing purposes, although small incomes prevent extensive conversion to the use of purchased goods. The knowledge and current subsistence-level use of NWFPs by the Tagbanua from the settlement of Boong are described and discussed.
4256326| This paper examines the use of medicinal plants by Latino healers in New York City to treat various women's illnesses. Eight Latino healers collaborated on the study through consultations with female patients who had one of the following conditions as diagnosed by biomedically trained physicians: uterine fibroids, hot flashes, menorrhagia, or endometriosis. The study identified a total of 67 plant species prescribed by the healers in the form of mixtures or as individual plants. Voucher specimens were collected from local botnicas and identified by specialists at The New York Botanical Garden. Studies of immigrant traditional healers and the plants they use in an urban setting can provide interesting ethnobotanical data and information to assist in diagnosing conditions and contributing to treatment of patients from Latino as well as non-Latino communities. /// Este documento examina el uso de plantas medicinales por curanderos Latinos en la ciudad de Nueva York en el tratamiento de varias enfermedades en mujeres. Ocho curanderos Latinos colaboraron en el estudio a travs de consultas con pacientes mujeres que tenan una de las siguentes condiciones de salud diagnosticadas por mdicos: fibroma del tero, incrementos de temperatura repentinos, menorrea o endometriosis. El estudio identific un total de 67 especies de plantas prescritas por los curanderos ya sea en mezclas o individualmente. Muestras de los especmenes fueron colectadas en botnicas locales e identificadas por especialistas en El Jardn Botnico de Nueva York. Estudios de curanderos tradicionales inmigrantes y sus plantas en un rea urbana pueden proveer datos etnobotnicos interesantes e informacin que asista en el diagnstico del estado de salud y contribuya al tratamiento de pacientes tanto de comunidades Latinas, como no Latinas. 
40390392|Mistaken ideas about the naturalness of past and present landscapes are widespread in diverse cultures and in the scientific literature, and many of these ideas are only now being seriously challenged by current research (e.g., Erickson 2006; Fairhead and Leach 1996; Hall 1998; Ramankutty and Foley 1999; Willis et al. 2004). For example, the chestnut, Castanea crenata, has long been an important tree in Japanese culture, which has been cultivated, among other things, for its much loved edible nut and its valuable timber. Today, the widely-held view in Japan, which also appears in the scholarly and popular literature, is that in the past Castanea stands covered a large area throughout Japan, and these stands only disappeared because of economic development, especially in association with railway construction. Otaru, Hokkaido, is one of the places where people believe Castanea stands covered a large area and were deforested only recently. Local people in Otaru believe that the stand in Temiya Park has existed since the Jomon Period. For a more accurate historical perspective on Japanese forestation, we have performed pollen analysis to clarify the timing of the introduction of the Castanea tree into Otaru region and to reveal the history of this specific Castanea stand in Temiya Park. The results indicate that Castanea was first found in Otaru region 7100 B.P., but that it was not cultivated extensively until recently. Based on our study, and on data from this area dating to the late 19th century, we concluded instead that the Castanea stand we studied in Temiya Park, Otaru, was established after the mid-20th century. We believe the results of this study are applicable to Castanea stands in other parts of Japan as well.
4287900|Several species of Salvia contributed to this flavoring and preserving adjunct of food in classical times.
4254964|Isozyme variation in 94 accessions of Mexican maize (Zea mays ssp. mays) and 37 collections of Mexican annual teosinte (Z. mays ssp. mexicana and var. parviglumis) are compared. Variety parviglumis (a predominantly wild plant) shows a closer genetic relationship to maize than does ssp. mexicana (a weedy teosinte often found in maize fields). The isozyme data suggest that maize and Z. mays var. parviglumis share a more recent common ancestor than either of these taxa share with other members of the genus Zea. in this sense, the isozyme data support the theory that maize is a domesticated form of teosinte. Isozyme data provide no evidence for independent origin of Mexican maize races from different taxa of teosinte. Isozyme analysis suggests that gene flow between maize and ssp. mexicana exists, but that it is highly restricted and more probably goes from weed into crop. Maize and var. parviglumis are isozymically too similar and too variable to allow patterns of gene flow between them (if any) to be discerned. The maize-teosinte complex does not fit a model applied to some other crops in that (1) weedy teosinte (ssp. mexicana) does not appear to be a hybrid of the wild form (var. parviglumis) and maize and (2) the weedy form does not act as a genetic bridge between wild form and crop.
4252750|The essential amino acid production for ten crops harvested for forage and fifteen crops harvested for seed was calculated from average crop yields in the United States for the ten-year period of 1953 to 1962. Highest yields per acre of essential amino acids were calculated from forages which could be processed into leaf protein concentrates. Alfalfa produced the highest yield per acre of essential amino acids of the twenty major crops; soybean seed was second. The calculated yields of edible protein and essential amino acids of leaf protein from corn were equal to or greater than the protein from the corn seed and several times that from animals fed the corn grain. At the present time, leaf protein concentrate may not be able to compete in cost with the by-product protein concentrates such as soybean meal, cottonseed meal, peanut meal, linseed meal, or tankage for feeding farm animals. However, further study of the production of leaf protein concentrates should be made to assure protein supplies for those regions where other adequate protein sources are lacking.
4255160| Twenty-nine laticiferous taxa of Apocynaceae, Asclepiadaceae, and Sapotaceae were screened for suitability as alternative sources of renewable energy, rubber, and phytochemicals and to select the most promising ones for large-scale cultivation. Of these, Allamanda violacea (14.9% protein, 13.8% polyphenol, 8.6% oil, 3.2% hydrocarbon). Catharanthus roseus (15.4% protein, 10.4% polyphenol, 11.5% oil, 1.9% hydrocarbon), and Holarrhena antidysenterica (14.2% protein, 16.4% polyphenol, 5.4% oil, 4.8% hydrocarbon) of Apocynaceae; Asclepias curassavica (19.3% protein, 6.5% polyphenol, 3.9% oil, 2.0% hydrocarbon), Calotropis gigantea (18.5% protein, 6.8% polyphenol, 7.0% oil, 2.8% hydrocarbon) of Asclepiadaceae; Mimusops elengi (11.3% protein, 9.7% polyphenol, 7.2% oil, 4.0% hydrocarbon) of Sapotaceae show promising potential for future petrochemical plantations; of all these taxa, Holarrhena antidysenterica yielded an unusually high percentage (4.8%) of hydrocarbon fraction followed by Mimusops elengi (4.0%). NMR spectra confirmed the presence of cis-polyisoprene in all species studied except Nerium indicum (white-flowered var.). These data indicate that the majority of the species under investigation may be considered for large-scale cultivation as an alternative source of rubber, intermediate energy, and other phytochemicals. /// Neunundzwanzig latexhltige Taxa von der Familien Apocynaceae, Asclepiadaceae, und Sapotaceae werden untersucht, um ihre Eignung als alternative Quelle der erneubaren Energie, Gummi, und Phytochemikalien zu finden, dadurch die gnstige fr die umfangreiche Kultivierung zu whlen. Von allen, Allamanda violacea (14. 9% Eiweiss, 13.8% Polyphenol, 8.6% l, 3.2% Kohlenwasserstoff), Catharanthus roseus (15.4% Eiweiss, 10.4% Polyphenol, 11.5% l, 1.9% Kohlenwasserstoff), und Holarrhena antidysenterica (14.2% Eiweiss, 16.4% Polyphenol, 5.4% l, 4.8% Kohlenwasserstoff), von Apocynaceae; Asclepias curassavica (19.3% Eiweiss, 6.5% Polyphenol, 3.9% l, 2.0% Kohlenwasserstoff) und Calotropis gigantea (18.5% Eiweiss, 6.8% Polyphenol, 7.0% l, 2.8% Kohlenwasserstoff), von Asclepiadaceae; Mimusops elengi (11.3% Eiweiss, 9.7% Polyphenol, 7.2% l, 4.0% Kohlenwasserstoff) von Sapotaceae zeigen gnstige Mglichkeit fr die zuknftigen petrochemikalischen Pflanzen. Unter allen Taxa ergab Holarrhena antidysenterica einen ungewhnlichen hhen Prozentsatz (4.8%) von Kohlenwasserstoff; das nchste war Mimusops elengi (4.0%). NMR Spektren besttigten die Anwesenheit von cis-Polyisoperen in allen untersuchten Arten, ausserhalb Nerium indicum (weisse Blumen Variett). Diese Daten zeigen, dass die Mehrkeit von diesen untersuchten Sorten betracht werden drfen, als alternative Quelle von Gummi, indirekte Energie, und andere Photochemikalien. 
4256099|We examined the response of forest tree species with different dispersal modes to anthropogenic pressure in a dry deciduous forest of South India. The species and their populations were sampled in two forest stands, one in proximity to a Soliga settlement (greater disturbance) and the other distant to the settlement (lower disturbance). Our results suggest that the populations of animal dispersed species than those of wind or passively dispersed species are more vulnerable to human disturbance. In fact wind dispersed species seem to be facilitated by human disturbances. The proximal site had a higher representation of understory plants and seedling belonging to wind dispersed species than that of animal dispersed species. We discuss the results in the context of the role of dispersal mode in shaping species response, and vegetation composition of forest to anthropogenic pressures.
4253645|Reports from native informants backed with voucher plant specimens were obtained in a 1969-1970 field study on the Bahama islands of Great Exuma, Little Exuma and Long Island. Over 130 plant species of some 60 families are used within this culture for a wide variety of medicinal purposes. Pertinent background material and personal observations during field work indicated that knowledge of "bush medicine" is fading. The information recorded includes common names of each medicinal plant, uses, and preparations. A systematic list cross-referenced with common names is provided.
4252026|This large iris-like plant yields a hard fiber which has been important in New Zealand's past export trade. Today the total native annual production of about 5,000 long tons is wholly utilized domestically and provides only 15 percent of New Zealand's fiber requirements for use in woolpacks, matting, twine and other articles. Imported fibers, such as sisal, jute and hemp, make up the difference.
4256577|Weekly markets in tribal areas are an important socioeconomic institution. Surveys were conducted during 1997-1999 in over one dozen rural markets in Surguja in the State of Madhya Pradesh in the central region of India. Tribals bring products of at least 30 species to these markets for sale. Traders from towns come to these markets to purchase forest produce; others set up small shops for selling consumer goods such as ready-made clothes, toiletries, utensils, stationery, some plastic goods, match boxes, and some cereals and tobacco.
4256737| Capers of commerce are immature flower buds which have been pickled either in vinegar or preserved in granular salt. Semi-mature fruits and young shoots with small leaves may also be pickled for use as a condiment. The use of capers can be traced to the prehistory. Although Capparis spinosa from the western Mediterranean is the most widely used species, the subgenus comprises 23 species and subspecies occupying large territories from the Atlantic coasts to the Pacific in the Old World. We have recorded medicinal and food uses for 19 species. /// Las alcaparras del comercio son botones florales encurtidos en vinagre o preservados en sal gruesa. Los frutos inmaduros y los brotes tiernos provistos de hojitas tambin se utilizan encurtidos como condimento. El uso de las alcaparras se remonta hasta la prehistoria. Aunque la especie Capparis spinosa, que habita la regin mediterrnea occidental es la ms utilizada, el subgnero comprende 23 especies y subespecies que se extienden desde las costas Atlnticas hasta el Pacfico en Africa, Asia, Europa y Oceana. Se han registrado usos para 19 especies y subespecies, que son de inters alimentario y medicinal. 
4255578| Data based on independent interviews with 22 males of the Batemi of Ngorongoro District, Tanzania, comprised 299 remedy reports and related to 73 species of plants. We list here 58 remedies (41 taxa) that were confirmed through independent reports from two or more individuals. A quantitative interaction effect was calculated for each remedy as a measure of its degree of confirmation, and implications and applications of the statistic are discussed. / Les rsultats d'enqutes individuelles avec 22 hommes Batemi du district Ngorongoro en Tanzanie ont permis de rpertorier 73 espces de plantes mdicinales utilises dans quelques 299 traitements herboristes. Nous prsentons une liste de 58 plantes mdicinales (41 taxa) dont chacune tait rapporte indpendamment par un minimum de deux herboristes. Un effet d'interaction est calcul pour chaque plante mdicinale et reprsente le degr de confirmation. Implications et consquences pratiques de ce modle sont discutes. 
4253427|142 plant species are known to be recognized by the Southern Kwakiutl Indians of British Columbia. Means of collection, preparation, and utilization of these plants are outlined. The role of plants in Kwakiutl culture and economy for food, technology, medicine, religion, recreation, linguistics, and migration and settlement patterns is discussed. Phonetic transcriptions are given of most Kwakiutl names of plants. The ethnobotanies of the Southern Kwakiutl and the Vancouver Island Coast Salish are briefly compared. 50% of the plants were used similarly by both groups. Most differences seem related to vegetation characteristics, degree of trade and communication, cultural features, and religious secrecy. The extent and even the type of use of species occurring in both areas often appeared to be related more to species abundance than to any inherent plant characteristics.
4255389| The major reserve compounds of tubers (starch, soluble carbohydrates, proteins and non-soluble fibers) of five native Dioscorea species are analyzed with a view to their economic importance (for the staple food and pharmaceutical industries); distribution, phenology and germination are also investigated. Twenty-six native species and the cultivated edible exotics are listed, with phenological characteristics, popular name, habitat, popular medicinal importance and distribution. /// Os principais compostos de reserva de tubrculos (amido, carboidratos solveis, proteinas e fibras no solveis) de 5 espcies de Dioscorea nativas so analisados devido  importncia econmica deste grupo (alimentao e indstria farmacutica) bem como sua distribuio, fenologia e germinao. Vinte e seis espcies nativas e as exticas descritas como alimentares so listadas com algumas de suas caracteristicas fenolgicas, nomes populares, habitats, importncia na medicina popular e sua distribuio. 
40390615|Mexican rnica (Heterotheca inuloides Cass.) is a widely used anti-inflammatory medicinal plant in Mexican folk medicine. Although it has been suggested that plant age, fertilization, and harvesting regime influence the concentration of secondary compounds affecting the therapeutic activity of the plant, the effect of these variables on the concentration of the Mexican rnica anti-inflammatory compounds was not known. We quantified anti-inflammatory sesquiterpenes (caryolan-1, 9-diol, cadalen-15-oic acid, 7-hydroxycadalene, 4-hydroxy-2-isopropyl-4, 7-dimethyl-1 [4H] naftalinone, 7-hydroxy-4H-3, 4-dihydrocadalene, -caryophyllene, and -caryophyllene epoxide) in Mexican rnica plants subjected to fertilization and successive harvests of flowering stems, conditions that mimic the cultivation and harvesting for rnica in Mxico. Fertilization and successive harvesting and their interaction had no significant effect on the concentration of anti-inflammatory compounds. However, the concentrations of these compounds were 60% higher in flowering stems from 15-month-old plants than in those from 4- or 8-month-old plants and was independent of the number of harvests and fertilization regime applied.
4256877|The article presents results of a field and market survey on characteristics and use of wild vegetable consumption for local ethnic groups in Xishuangbanna, SW China. A total of 284 wild vascular plant species and varieties were identified as wild vegetables consumed by three distinct native ethnic groups. These wild vegetables account for 6.1% of total vascular plant species in this area. Wild vegetables play an important role in the ethnic groups' diet and source of cash income. Based on a 10-month market survey, wild vegetables accounted for 20.6% (in weight) of total vegetable sales. The structure of income from total vegetable sales varied among ethnic groups, with high sales for those living close to dense forests. The use of wild-vegetable resources can increase income of local ethnic groups, thus contributing to the conservation of forest resources in the region. /// [Abstract in Chinese]
4255229| Native plants of the Fort Yukon region, Alaska, were identified as to their medicinal, edible and material uses by the Gwich'in Athabaskan and Caucasian residents. Forty eight species or groups of native plants were identified as having some use predominantly as medicines (40%) and as food or beverage (56%). Their value in past and present Gwich'in culture is discussed. /// Die medizinisch, geniessbar, und werkstoffliche Verwendungen der einheimischen Pflanzen in der Gegend von Fort Yukon, Alaska, bei den Gwich'in Athabaskan und Kaukasischen Einwohnern wurden identifiziert. Achtundvierzig von den identifizierten Arten und Gruppen der einheimischen Pflanzen hatten irgendeine Verwendung vorwiegend als Medizin (40%) und als Nahrung oder Getrnk (56%). Ihr Wert in der vergangenen und gegenwrtigen Gwich'in Kultur wird errtert. 
4251863|The pre-war Dutch East Indies monopoly of cinchona bark, source of quinine-the world's great febrifuge-is being challenged by the prospective results of extensive experimental plantings of the trees in Guatemala.
4256485| Domesticated maize emerged from human selection, exploitation, and cultivation of natural recombinants between two wild grasses that had novel characteristics desired by humans for food. Crossing experiments reconstructing prototypes of ancient archaeological specimens demonstrate how the simple flowering spike of the wild relatives of maize was transformed into the prolific grain-bearing ear within a few generations of intergenomic recombination between teosinte and Tripsacum. The high degree of morphological similarities of segregating intercross progeny to archaeological specimens from Tehuacn, Oaxaca, and Tamaulipas provides strong support for this evolutionary scenario. Comparative genomic analysis of maize, teosinte, and Tripsacum confirms that maize has inherited unique polymorphisms from a Tripsacum ancestor and other unique polymorphisms from a teosinte progenitor. This supports the hypothesis that Tripsacum introgression provided the mutagenic action for the transformation of the teosinte spike into the maize ear. This model for the origin of maize explains its sudden appearance, rapid evolutionary trajectory, and genesis of its spectacular biodiversity. 
4255370| Rhatany, the name given to several species of Krameria, figured prominently in European and Euro-American medicine between 1820 and 1920. Uses for rhatany were numerous but generally centered around the astringent properties of the tanniniferous root extracts. Evidence suggests that the adoption of Krameria as a medicinal plant resulted from the advocacy of its use by Hiplito Ruiz following his return to Europe from Per in 1797. Native American uses known at the time of Ruiz's writing were different from those espoused in Europe by the Spanish botanist. Traditional Pre-Colombian uses of Krameria species by native peoples of North and South America are difficult to assess because records of use appear to have been influenced by the uses devised later by Europeans. There is little doubt of native uses of the roots for chewing sticks and as a source of dye. During the last 25 years, there has been an attempt to link the use of Krameria teas with high incidences of esophageal cancer. However, examination of the data resulting from experiments to test the cancer-causing properties of Krameria extracts does not indicate that rhatany teas are highly carcinogenic. Recent studies of the tannins and lignans present in root and leaf extracts suggest their possible future uses in anti-bacterial and ultraviolet light blocking preparations. /// Rhatanhia, el nombre comn de algunas especies del gnero Krameria, fue una hierba muy importante en la medicina europea y euro-americana entre los aos 1820 y 1920. Los usos de rhatania fueron numerosos, pero se centraron en las propiedades astringentes de los extractos taniniferos de las raices. Al parecer, la adopcin de Krameria como planta medicinal proviene de los trabajos de Hiplito Ruiz a su regreso a Europa del Per in 1797. Los usos de los indgenas americanos fueron diferentes a los expuesots por el botnico espaol, pero son dificiles de determinar ya que parecen haber sido influenciados por los usos posteriores de los europeos. No hay duda de que los nativos usaban las raices para masticarlas y para teir. En los ltimos veinticinco aos, se ha sugerido que Krameria puede causar cncer del esfago, sin embargo la evidencia experimental no indica ninguna relacin. Estudios recientes de los taninos y lignina en hojas y raices sugieren a futuro un uso como antibitico y bloqueador contra luz ultravioleta. 
4256521| Methods for forecasting harvest yields have been improved considerably in the last 20 years with the development of new data survey (remote sensing) and statistical techniques. One of these methods, based on pollen release in the atmosphere, is especially important for anemophilous species such as olive. The aim of the present work is to use a different approach to forecast the olive harvest by considering the pollen variable as "endogenous" because it is involved in the consequential processes from the formation of pollen to fruiting, the complex of which determines, more or less, the final production. Unlike models built upon a single equation (multiple linear regression analysis), the proposed estimate, based on an incomplete system of equations, recovers the consistency associated with the inference of parameters while avoiding the errors of "over-estimation." The study, based on 17 years of data considers the quantity of olive pollen monitored and the relative annual olive production in addition to climatic, agronomic, and pathological variables associated with production. The harvest forecast provides the possibility for planning and optimizing the various stages of olive production from cultivation to distribution, including sound management of the olive supply. /// Pendant les vingt dernires annes les mthodes de prvision des rendements de rcolte ont t considrablement amliores grce au dveloppement de nouvelles techniques statistiques et d' enqute des donnes (tldtection). Parmi ces mthodes celle base sur l'mission du pollen dans l'atmosphre se rvle particulirement importante pour les espces anmophiles comme l'olivier. Le but de ce travail est celui d'arriver  employer une mthode diffrente dans la prvision des rendements de rcolte de l'olivier, le tout en considrant comme "endogne" la variable pollen. Ce dernier est, en effect, impliqu dans les processus d'volution qui vont de sa formation  la fructification, de manire  dterminer la production finale. Contrairement aux modles tablis sur une quation simple (analyse multiple de rgression linaire), l'valuation propose, base sur un systme inachev d'quations, rcupre la consistance connexe  l' infrence des paramtres tout en vitant les erreurs de "surestimation". L'tude, base sur dix-sept ans de donnes, considre la quantit de pollen d'olivier dtecte et consquemment la production olicole annuelle, outre aux variables climatiques, agronomiques et pathologiques lies  la production. Les modles de prvision offrent la possibilit de rationaliser les diffrentes phases de la filire olicole en optimisant les procds, de la production  la distribution, y compris la gestion rationnelle des stocks. 
4254035| The Classic Maya civilization was centered in lowlands of the Petn in northern Guatemala, and collapsed mysteriously in the ninth century AD. Abandoned were rich agricultural lands carved without metal tools out of a tropical rain forest, lands that had been farmed with increasing intensity for six to sixteen centuries. The Maya evidently resettled in highlands to the south or in less productive dry lowlands to the north. No reoccupation occurred of the Petn farms, homes or ceremonial centers until their discovery in the past two centuries. Sustained crop failure of maize (Zea mays L.) due to an epidemic of the plant-hopper-borne virus, maize mosaic virus (MMV), is proposed as a primary contributing cause of the collapse. Major diseases and pests of maize in the tropics are assessed for their relative significance in and near the Petn vs. the highlands, and the viruses are highlighted. Maize mosaic virus is a devastating virus disease transmitted by the corn plant-hopper, Peregrinus maidis, an insect restricted to tropic lowlands. Maize and teosinte are its only definitively known hosts. Thus the disease has been serious only where maize is grown more-or-less continuously through the year in wet or irrigated tropics (e.g., Caribbean Islands, Venezuela, Hawaii, Tanzania, Australia). It is reported here for southern Mexico and the Petn of Guatemala. Resistance in maize occurs only in one known form, the gene Mv, that confers a high level resistance but not immunity. Resistance data are presented for 63 of the 67 races of maize thought to have evolved in the Northern Hemisphere. The Mv gene is shown to occur in all seven of the races of maize evolved in the Caribbean, but in none of the primitive Mexican or Central American races. It is proposed that maize mosaic virus originated in northern South America at or about the time maize was brought into the Caribbean by the Arawak around the time of Christ. The sympatric origin or selection in maize of the Mv resistance mutant in this region is assumed to have led to its incorporation in all seven Caribbean maize races. It is conjectured that viruliferous leafhoppers were blown from the Caribbean into the Petn around the eighth century allowing the disease to become epidemic in susceptible maize races such as Nal-Tel and Tepecintle, grown by the Petn Maya. Sustained failure of maize production due to MMV would have characterized areas of intensive maize cultivation, particularly where it was year-round. The disease would have been less severe in areas with a long dry season, as to the north of Yucatn and it would not have occurred in the highland areas to the south and west, areas to which surviving Maya presumably migrated. 
4252086|While the vanished American chestnut has not yet been replaced by blight-resistant chestnuts, or white pines, elms and poplars saved from the ravages of other diseases, great advances have been made toward achieving these goals.
4256882| This paper presents a list of some medicinal plants distributed in the East Anatolia region. The list was prepared during an ethnobotanical survey of the region from 1995 to 2002. East Anatolia has a rich flora due to its variable climate and its many ecological zones. This diversity in flora provides a rich source of medicinal plants that has been long utilized by Anatolian cultures; and hence, accounts for the remarkable accumulation of medicinal folk knowledge for the region. This paper provides information about 71 useful plants grown in the region, 20 of which are reported for the first time. In addition to the scientific names, vernacular names and medicinal uses are given for each plant. /// 1995-2002 yillari arasi Dou Anadolu Blgesinde gerekletirilen etnobotanik taramalar sonucu, blgede yayili gsteren bazi tibbi bitkiler bu alimada liste halinde verilmitir. Deiik ekolojik durumlar, farkli iklimsel tipler ve vejetasyon gemiinden dolayi Dou Anadolu Blgesi zengin bir floraya sahiptir. Farkli kltrlere ve zengin floraya sahip blgede Halk hekimlii ile ilgili veriler ok fazladir. Bundan dolayi Anadolu tibbi bitkilerin kullanimi bakimindan nemli bir merkez olmutur. Bu aratirmada blgede yetien deiik amalarla kullanilan 71 faydali bitki hakkinda bilgi verilmektedir. Kaydedilen verilerden 20'si ilk kez sunulmaktadir. alimayi oluturan bitkilerin tm aratirma blgesinden toplanip tehis edilmi, yresel isimleri ve tibbi kullanimlari verilmektedir. 
4287802|Attention is directed in this article to the industrial possibilities latent in kaivun, unexploited as yet but long a useful native fibre of India.
4287862|Apples of the York Imperial, Rome Beauty, Red Delicious and Golden Delicious varieties have been evaluated for their capacity to reduce the ceric ion and oxidation-reduction potentials, during growth and storage, and true water content during storage, at approximately biweekly intervals. Three periods of change occurred in reducing capacity throughout growth and storage. No direct relation was obtained between the ceric ion reducing capacity of the apples and the concentration of reducing sugars present. The difference in potentials between the growing and storage periods was significant at the 0.05 level; such evaluations should be a measure of the oxidative state of the fruit. True water evaluations by toluene distillation and water traps were shown to be significantly lower than those obtained by oven drying.
4254109|The aboriginal culture of the Northwest Coast is well known for its elaboration of cultural forms and reliance on the prolific fisheries of the region. Less well understood is the role indigenous plants played in the subsistence of the native peoples. A search of the historical and ethnographic literature indicates that bracken (Pteridium aquilinum Kuhn) was a major item in the dietary of the peoples of western Washington contributing both starch and fiber. This fern was collected and prepared by native women as a form of "flour" and baked or dried into cakes or bread. The record also indicates plant management by burning which has not previously been considered as a systematic method of production for the foraging societies of western Washington.
4287958|Avocado and mango are the leading commercial fruits of South Florida. Lychee, guava, pineapple, bananas, papayas, and persimmon, are of minor economic value, while sapodilla, macadamia nut, Barbados cherry and the Mysore black raspberry show promise of commercial development. All of these fruits and many more are grown as dooryard plants. The fact that such a large number of tropical and subtropical fruits can be grown in South Florida has made the subject of tropical pomology a very important one for this area.
4255208| The history of economic botany is briefly discussed. Economic plants are defined as those plants utilized either directly or indirectly for the benefit of Man. Indirect usage includes the needs of Man's livestock and the maintenance of the environment; the benefits may be domestic, commercial, environmental, or aesthetic. The relationships between economic botany, agriculture, forestry, horticulture, and ethnobotany are discussed as well as the regional approaches to economic botany around the world and by the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, in particular. /// La histoire de botanique conomique est discut brivemente. Les plantes conomiques sont definit comme ces plantes qui sont utiles directement ou indirectement pour la profit de l'Homme. Usage indirectement comprendit les ncessits des animaux domestiques et le conservation de l'environnement; les profits pourait etre domestiques, commercials, environmentals, ou esthtiques. Les relations entre botanique conomique, agriculture, aboriculture, horticulture, et thnobotanique sont discut comme aussi les approches regionales  botanique conomique autour du monde et particulierment dans les Jardins botaniques royals de Kew. 
4251989|The avocado, a remarkable fruit of tropical America, was first successfully vegetatively propagated scarcely 50 years ago, yet today the commercial acreage in the United States exceeds 22,500 with a maximum annual production of 25,900 tons, which is certain to increase because of young-bearing acreage and new plantings. California contributes three-fourths of the supply; Florida and Cuba the balance. The development of this new and promising fruit industry comprises a little known saga in the annals of American horticulture.
4254710|Recent efforts to discover phytochemicals that could substitute for petroleum-derived fuels and industrial feedstocks have not given much attention to the potential of these same phytochemicals to provide sources of biologically active compounds. The suitability of extraction products made to assess specific plants as potential botanochemical sources has been evaluated for use in screening procedures for evidence of biologically active compounds. Screening procedures for antibacterial, antifungal and toxic properties are discussed. Screening results are presented for extracts of nearly 80 species of plants from the southeastern United States and southern Great Plains that had previously been evaluated as sources of botanochemicals.
40686784|Descriptions of human and plant interactions at a local, regional, and global level drive the need for ethnobotanists to use tools from a variety of disciplines including paleoethnobtany, historical ecology, phylogenetics and historical linguistics. The comparative method from historical linguistics was used in this study to test the hypothesis: fungi were an important resource used by Polynesian peoples in the past, with little change in recent history. A comprehensive literature search of ethnographical works was undertaken to collate the various Polynesian terms for fungi. Corresponding terms for fungi, or cognates, were used to reconstruct words from the Proto Polynesian language, based on regular sound changes. Of the 117 terms for fungi found in 23 Polynesian languages, 25 cognates were used to reconstruct four (4) Proto Polynesian terms: three life form folk taxa *talinga, *seka and *limu and one folk generic *talinga kimoa. These Proto Polynesian terms were then compared to the modern lexicon to discuss the spatial and temporal use of fungi in Polynesia. Differences in the number of modern terms and evidence of binomials indicate changes in the perception and use of fungi in at least two cultures, New Zealand Mori and Marquesan. Results also suggest a wide distribution of the folk generic centered on the scientific genus Auricularia. Evidence of only one folk generic with morphological associations and a lack of subordinate folk taxa suggest that fungi were not a culturally salient resource to the Proto Polynesian peoples. Nevertheless, the presence of terms for macro fungi suggests obvious gross patterns of stem habit and bodily form were recognized. There are major limitations when using historical linguistics to describe the use of resources including the requirement for well recorded and closely related languages. Working with a linguist and encouraging researchers to ask more in-depth questions will go some way to combat these limitations. Further research is needed in the Cook Islands, Samoa, and the Marquesas to develop a clearer understanding of fungi as a resource in Polynesia.
4254218|In the drylands of northcentral Mexico campesinos known as ixtleros or talladores gather ixtle, a hard fiber derived from the uncultivated plants lechuguilla (Agave lecheguilla Torr.), and palma samandoca (Yucca carnerosana [Trel.] McKelv.). Ixtleros sell most of the fiber they collect, and the region in which ixtle is currently exploited for commercial purposes is called the Zona Ixtlera. Unsold fiber is converted into rope and brushes in ixtlero communities and used for a variety of purposes. Various parts of lechuguilla and palma samandoca are also employed to meet local construction, cleansing, and dietary needs.
4255227| Field inquiries and organoleptic tests for sweet taste led to the procurement of samples of Piper marginatum (dried leaves), Tagetes filicifolia (fresh whole plants), Osmorhiza longistylis (fresh roots), Foeniculum vulgare (fresh aerial parts), Myrrhis odorata (fresh whole plants), Ocimum basilicum (fresh aerial parts), and Illicium verum (dried fruits). Follow-up laboratory studies of the leaves of Piper marginatum demonstrated that trans-anethole (a phenylpropanoid) was the major sweet constituent of this species. In the remaining six species, GC/MS analysis also enabled us to demonstrate that sweetness is attributable, in each case, to the presence of high concentrations of the phenylpropanoids, trans-anethole and estragole, either alone or in combination. /// Entrevistas y busqueda en el campo seguidas por pruebas organolpticas para detectar el sabor dulce nos dirigieron a la adquisicin de muestras de Piper marginatum (hojas secas), Tagetes filicifolia (plantas enteras secas), Osmorhiza longistylis (raices frescas), Foeniculum vulgare (partes areas frescas), Myrrhis odorata (plantas enteras frescas), Ocimum basilicum (partes areas frescas), e Illicium verum (frutas secas). Estudios de laboratorio posteriores de las hojas de Piper marginatum demostraron que trans-anetol (un fenilpropanoide) fu el principio edulcorante mayor de esta especie. En las seis especies restantes, el anlisis por medio de la cromatografa gaseosa y espectrometra de masa nos permitieron a demostrar que el sabor dulce se debe tambien, en cada caso, a la presencia de altas concentraciones de fenilpropanoides, a saber transanetol y estragol, tanto slo como en conjunto. 
4255387| For about 150 years cloves have been a major export crop of Zanzibar. The industry was established through large plantations run with slave labor but these have been progressively fragmented into smaller holdings. Throughout this century the industry at home has faced several recurring problems, the worst of which are tree diseases, ageing tree populations and occasional neglect of trees. As a result, replanting has been crucial to the maintenance of the industry which has also been strengthened by government assistance. Overseas, Zanzibar faced little competition in the world clove market until recently and this is now being aggravated by increasing self-sufficiency in Indonesia. The future of the Zanzibar industry will depend on its ability to cope with the problems of the industry at home and on its success at selling cloves in an increasingly competitive world market. /// Durante 150 anos o cravo foi um dos produtos mais exportado de Zanzibar. A industria foi establecida atravs de grandes plantaes cultivadas pelos escravos, mas isto com o passar do tempo progressivamente fragmentou-se, restando apenas pequenos fazendeiros. Durante este sculo a industria enfrentou muitos problemas, entre elas a doena, o envelhecimento e a neglegncia com a lavoura dos cravos. Resultado, a replantao tem sido muito importante para a manuteno da industria a qual tambm tem sido ajudada pelo governo. At recentemente, Zanzibar enfrentou pouca competio no mercado mundial para a venda de cravos. Mas esta situao ultimamente agravou-se desde que a Indonezia aumentou a sua propria produo. O futuro da industria de cravos em Zanzibar depende da habilidade em solucionar os problemas da propria industria em seu pais e do sucesso da venda de cravos para um competitivo mercado mundial. 
4253328| The Sharanahua and Culina, small Indian tribes located in the southwestern Amazon basin, use a hallucinogenic drink for medicinal and social purposes. This decoction, called "Ayahuasca" in Peru, is prepared from Banisteriopsis Caapi stems and Psychotria sp. leaves. These plants have been botanically identified on the basis of voucher herbarium specimens and investigated for alkaloid content by means of a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry technique. A list of other occasional plant admixtures is given. Harmine, Harmaline, Tetrahydroharmine, Harmol and 6-Methoxytryptamine have been found in Banisteriopsis Caapi. Dimethyltryptamine, Monomethyltryptamine and 2-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro--carboline have been found in Psychotria viridis and Psychotria carthaginensis. Harmine, Harmaline, Tetrahydroharmine and Dimethyltryptamine have been found in the drink. Quantitative calculations show the amount of each alkaloid administered in the Ayahuasca drink. 
4255267|The symposium "New perspectives on the origin and evolution of New World domesticated plants" includes nine papers that all deal with the systematic relationships, center(s) of origin, and genetic diversity of particular New World crops. Recent molecular analyses and fieldwork in remote regions have supplied much new biosystematic evidence bearing on these topics. This new evidence, as well as the further integration of plant breeding, systematic/evolutionary, ethnobotanical, and archaeobotanical research, has done much to clarify New World crop origins and evolution.
4256879|The study is based on anatomical and morphological investigations of Empetrum nigrum L. subsp. hermaphroditum (Hagerup) Bocher, an important plant because of its value for medicine and food. Plant samples were collected from the northeastern part of Turkey. Morphological and anatomical features of various plant parts (e.g., stem, leaf, flower, and fruit) are illustrated and described in detail.
4257218|Many interventions try to address farmers' seed insecurity, though few assess the causes of farmers' vulnerability or understand their coping strategies. This paper analyzes farmers' practices for maintaining sorghum seed security in a specific season (1998-99) in Ethiopia, which provides a richer picture of coping strategies than accounts of "general" practices, as it shows how responses reflect events unfolding over time and household-specific situations. High seeding rates ensure against environmental uncertainty, but not everyone has sufficient seed for repeated sowing should stands fail to establish. Off-farm seed fills this gap, though payment is usually required for substantial quantities; only 20% of seed from other farmers came for free in 1998. Differences between seed suppliers and recipients suggest indicators for chronic seed insecurity. The discussion explores implications for supporting farmers' coping strategies. Helping the poorest farmers access off-farm seed, from other farmers or from merchants, can reduce their vulnerability.
4254934|The 11 taxa of Juniperus with widespread distribution in the United States and with significant biomass production were investigated to determine their yields of cedarwood oil and the major components of commercial interest: alpha-cedrene, beta-cedrene, thujopsene, cuparene, cedrol, and widdrol. Taxa examined were J. ashei, J. californica, J. erythrocarpa, J. deppeana, J. monosperma, J. occidentalis var. occidentalis, J. o. var. australis, J. osteosperma, J. pinchotii, J. scopulorum, and J. virginiana. The volatile heartwood oils were removed by steam distillation and analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy to determine their yields and composition. Cedarwood oil yields in J. erythrocarpa and J. scopulorum were comparable to those of the two species currently being utilized (J. ashei, J. virginiana).
4254930|Events leading to the planting of the first soybeans in Illinois and the subsequent distribution of the seed throughout the United States are documented. In December 1850 the Auckland left Hong Kong for San Francisco. The ship came across a Japanese junk floundering on the sea. The Japanese crew was removed from the junk and placed on board the Auckland, which continued on to San Francisco. In March 1851 Dr. Benjamin Franklin Edwards obtained soybean seeds from the Japanese and brought the seeds to Alton, Illinois. Mr. John H. Lea of Alton planted the soybeans in his garden in summer 1851. These events took place 3 yr prior to the famous introduction of soybeans from Japan into the United States by the Perry Expedition.
4287889|Inadequate storage space and the expense of processing fruit mean surplus crops in Greece, although nearby countries, such as Israel, do not produce apples.
4254214|The geocarpa groundnut, Kerstingiella geocarpa Harms, is grown only in the northern and upper regions of Ghana. The seeds of this crop are produced in 1- or 2- or rarely 3-loculed pods which mature on or under the soil surface. The fresh mature or dry seeds are used for food, and they serve as a source of protein supplement in the local diet. The seeds are also said to have medicinal and emetic properties. Among the Sisalas in Ghana the boiled seeds are the only food served to surviving children during the final funeral rites of their mothers.
4254946|Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is grown as a cereal in southern Europe and in temperate, subtropical, and tropical Asia. Its closest wild relative is S. italica ssp. viridis (green foxtail). Green foxtail is native to temperate Eurasia, but was introduced and became widely established as a weed in temperate and warmer parts of the Americas. Spontaneous and cultivated S. italica cross to produce fertile hybrids. Derivatives of such crosses, resembling foxtail millet in some inflorescence traits but with efficient natural seed dispersal, accompany the cereal across its range of cultivation. Giant green foxtail of Europe and the American corn belt is a weed of hybrid origin. Foxtail millet was domesticated in the highlands of central China; remains of cultivated foxtail millet are known from the Yang-shao culture period dating back some 5,000 yrs. Comparative morphology suggests that foxtail millet spread to Europe and India as a cereal soon after its domestication. Three cultivated races are recognized. Moharia, from Europe and southwestern Asia, includes cultivars with 5-52 culms, each bearing several, small, more or less erect inflorescences. Cultivars in race maxima are characterized by plants with 1-8 usually unbranched culms that bear large inflorescences; they occur in Transcaucasian Russia and the Far East. Race indica is intermediate in culm number (ave. 6.6) and inflorescence size between races moharia and maxima, and is cultivated in southern Asia.
4254733|Kura clover (Trifolium ambiguum) is a perennial legume adapted to many temperate regions where grassland agriculture is of importance. Previous and widespread adoption of this species has not taken place because of problems associated with inoculation and subsequent nitrogen fixation. A commercial inoculant is now available that has proven to be effective in a number of trials. With an extensive root-rhizome complex, Kura clover may find use as a forage, for soil conservation purposes, and in forage crop improvement programs. Kura clover establishes very slowly, however, and seed supplies at the present time are very limited. Widespread use of this species will, therefore, proceed slowly.
4254678|Velvetleaf, Abutilon theophrasti, a native of China, was originally introduced into the New World before 1750 as a potential fiber crop for the American colonies. Initial introductions may have come from England because of similar interests in the development of fiber crops. Commercial fiber production from velvetleaf was attempted by U.S. farmers for more than a century. The latest known attempts were made in the latter part of the 19th century in Illinois and New York. Velvetleaf never competed well with hemp, at least partly due to a lack of proper machinery for fiber processing. These early experimental plantings were apparently the source of velvetleaf as a weed in row crops. One velvetleaf plant is capable of producing as many as 8,000 seeds, and viability may extend beyond 50 yr. The plant is well adapted to our upper Midwest where maize (Zea mays) and soybeans (Glycine max) are the major row crops. The reservoir of velvetleaf seed in the soil is increasing. The current annual economic loss due to velvetleaf in maize and soybeans is estimated to be approximately $343 million per year.
4252888|A crude drug sold under the name of Lung Lei Ip (Dragon Tongue) by the herb dealers in Hongkong and vicinity is identified as a euphorbiaceous ground cover. The morphological characters of the species are summarized, the history of its uses is reviewed, the medicinal merits reported and the ethnobotanical and ecological significance discussed.
4256733| Ethnographic interviews using photographs of 10 traditional Vietnamese fruits and vegetables were used to compare the knowledge level and use of traditional food plants between Vietnamese in urban Bien Hoa, Vietnam, and in Honolulu, Hawai'i. In both communities, there was a positive correlation between age and knowledge (as measured by correct identification, and number of food uses for the plants). Vietnamese immigrants in Hawai'i listed more food uses than those in Vietnam due to adoption of multi ethnic foods found in Honolulu. /// So snh s hiu bit v rau qu ca ngi Vit sng  thnh ph  Vit Nam v H Uy Di. Cch phng vn dng nhng tm hnh v mi loi rau qu truyn thng ca ngi Vit cho so snh s hiu bit v cch dng v thc n thc vt truyn thng ca ngi Vit  thnh ph Bin Ho, Vit Nam v Honolulu, H Uy Di. C hai cng ng ngi c tui c nhiu s hiu bit hn ngi tr tui (o lng nhn ra v boa nhiu cch dng cho thc vt). Ngi nhp c Vit  H Uy Di bit nhng thc n cch dng nhiu hn ngi sng  Vit Nam v chng tip thu thm c nhng th1c n ca cc vn ha  Honolulu. 
4287876|These organic catalysts-peroxidases, polyphenol oxidases and pectic enzymes among them-must be inactivated by heat or chemical treatment if high-quality food products are to be stored. Knowledge of their activity and control is still meagre.
4256424| Juncus arcticus var. andicola is native to the Andean region. Its stems are used to make handicrafts by the rural mestizo population of Cotopaxi province in Ecuador. These products are sold at traditional markets along the Andes of Ecuador. The plant is of great economic importance in the modest lives of the artisans. Totorilla has been cultivated by this rural population. It is cultivated in pools and sometimes wild populations are managed. The area of production is 1.5 ha. One woven item can be made from a
4254485|A list of 131 species with medicinal uses in the province of Talca, VII Maule Region in Central Chile, is given. Sixty-six of these are native and the rest introduced.
4255333|The geographical concepts of spatial scale and the human-geographic region offer significant contributions to the conservation of crop genetic resources. They are used in the present study to examine the partitioning of genetic diversity along two axes: geographical location and landrace population. Locations in the study consist of three micro-regions within the highland Paucartambo region of southern Peru. Six widely distributed landraces of the potato species Solanum stenotomum Juz. et Buk. and S. tuberosum subsp. andigena (Juz. et Buk.) Hawkes are evaluated. Electrophoretic analysis of isozyme loci demonstrates that the majority of allelic variation is contained within the geographical and landrace populations. Geographically, greater than 99% of total variation is found within single micro-regions. Taxonomically, approximately 75% of variation occurs within individual landraces. The weak geographical partitioning of allelic variation is due in part to formerly high rates of seed-tuber exchange. The weak-moderate taxonomic partitioning of variation is attributed to common parentage and shared introgression. Unique genotypes are microgeographically concentrated. Findings recommend that conservation strategies focus on intensive sampling or preservation in micro-regional areas due to the concentration of unique genotypes. Evaluation of the spatial patterning of diversity and recognition of the taxonomic specificity of results (not necessarily applicable even to related potato landraces) rely on biogeographical and human-geographic concepts.
25568895|This study investigated the use of woody plants by a rural community in an area of dry land Caatinga vegetation in northeastern Brazil. Information was obtained concerning this woody species with a diameter that is equal to or greater than 3 centimeters (cm) at soil level surveyed in 100 sample plots totaling 1 hectare (ha). The following question is the hypothesis we tested. Is a plant's relative importance (as measured by its use value) related to its "apparency," as measured by its abundance and ecological dominance? "Apparency" explains the use value of plants in four categories: medicinal, construction, fuel, and technology. The most important uses of woody plants are related to harvesting for energy and construction purposes.
4254821|In ancient Egypt, lettuce was considered an aphrodisiac and was featured in the yearly festival of Min, an ithyphallic god of fertility and procreation. The Greeks considered it an antiaphrodisiac and its use as a soporific continued into this century. The sycomore fig has a highly specialized fertilization biology, but does not produce seed in Egypt for want of the proper species of wasp. Ripening has been hastened since ancient times by gashing the syconia. To the ancient Egyptians it was a sacred trysting tree inhabited by the goddess of love and was the focus of a body of love poetry. Some selected verses are presented.
4254321|Until recently the use of plants for the precontact cultures of the Northwest Coast has been weakly and sporadically documented. This has led to some misconceptions about the importance of food plants in the precontact diet. This paper documents the use of plants associated with food for the Kaigani Haida of southeast Alaska who were first contacted in 1774, giving the native terms for the plants, and methods of preparation and storage both in precontact and contemporary life. Evidence is offered which indicates that plants were of great importance to the societies of the Northwest Coast and that food plants were more important than has been recognized. A map shows the territory of the Kaigani Haida prior to Euro-American contact, old village sites and the modern village of Hydaburg. Women's knowledge of plants, their native names, economic use, and method of preparation and storage are offered as evidence that food plants were significantly important to the precontact economy. Nutritional analyses of some of the berries and sprouts indicates that such foods were necessary in the diet in order to maintain healthy, viable populations.
4254115|Some lines of one of the wild subspecies of cowpeas, Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. subspecies mensensis, which is characterized by large, conspicuous flowers, were found to set fruits poorly in the absence of a pollinator, whereas others, including cultivated lines, set well. These differences were related to the separation of anthers and stigma, the orientation of the stigmatic surface and the hairiness of the style, and differed from other outbreeding mechanisms reported in cowpeas. The results support division of wild cowpeas into two groups and suggest that an increase in the rate of inbreeding has accompanied their domestication.
4255312|The "wool" of bolbos ho eriophoros described by Theophrastus in his Historia plantarum or Enquiry into plants is the primary xylem of the bulb scales of Scilla hyacinthoides (Liliaceae). When bulb scales are pulled apart transversely the gyres of the helical secondary wall deposited on the thin primary wall of the water-conducting elements are stretched and appear to be woolly threads. /// La "lana" del bolbos ho eriophoros descrita por Teofrasto en Historia plantarum es el xilema primario de las escamas del bulbo Scilla hyacinthoides. Cuando las escamas son partidas transversalmente, los giros helicoidales depositados sobre la delgada pared celular primaria se estiran, aparentando hebras de lana.
4253837|Information is presented on the growth habit, the distribution and ecology of Solanum malacoxylon, as well as the effect of its consumption by grazing animals in the plains of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. It has been found that this plant causes a disease known as "Enteque seco" which is characterized by the calcification of soft tissues, especially heart, kidneys and lungs. The nature of the active compound is not completely known but it appears to be a Vitamin D-like substance or its metabolites. The plant is highly toxic for cattle and causes considerable economic losses in one of the most important meat production areas of Argentina.
4252111|About seven percent of the annual American potato crop, or 25,000,000 bushels, is converted into potato starch by 21 factories in Maine and six in Idaho, with a combined capacity of annually producing about 150,000,000 pounds of starch, used principally in sizing textiles but also in the manufacture of paper, food products and adhesives.
4256884|The essential oil properties of spearmint (Mentha spicata L.), one of the most important spice plants, were studied and the essential oil components determined using gas chromatography. The essential oil content of wild-grown spearmint in the region was found to range from 1.00% to 2.00%, and two chemotypes were identified, one high in carvone (49.53-80.65%) and the other in pulegone (44.9-49.23%). Agronomic and essential oil properties of cultivated landraces of M. spicata were also investigated under field conditions during the 1999 vegetation period. The examined spearmint landraces showed a great variability for each character studied, including yield and essential oil components. The crop was harvested twice during the vegetation period, and the essential oil content of the landraces varied from 0.90 to 2.70% in the first harvest and from 1.00 to 3.00% in the second one. Carvone was constantly present as the predominant essential oil in landraces, except for one sample, which was high in linalool (82.80%). Superior landraces with carvone contents were discovered; their maximum content reached 79.70% in the first cutting and 82.97% at the second cutting. The superior landraces were assayed for future improvement studies.
4252588|The humate content of soils must be maintained for optimum productivity. Skilled agriculturists are aware of this and accomplish it by indirect and costly methods. The same can be achieved through the use of humate concentrates, which are salts of the humic acids obtainable from natural sources, that can be added directly to soils along with regular commercial fertilizers.
4254540|United States production of oilseeds has increased 71% over the last 10 yr (1971-1981), from 42 to 72 mill tons. Soybeans have provided the big boost in output, accounting for 86% of the 30 mill ton gain, followed by sunflowers with 7%, cottonseed 7%, and peanuts 2%. Flaxseed and safflower output declined during the decade. Many factors contributed to the sharp boost in soybean output during this period. Because soybeans were competitively priced, market demand showed a steady growth and stocks remained relatively low. Soybeans provided favorable returns to growers and were widely used in rotations with other crops. Sunflower production skyrocketed since 1974 due to development of higher-yielding hybrid sunflower varieties and strong European demand for the seed. Costs of crop production in the United States have been continuing their relentless climb, spurred largely by rising fuel costs and more recently by high interest rates. Fertilizer and agricultural chemicals have also contributed to the increased costs. In the next decade, world demand for high protein meal and vegetable oils will continue to increase as population increases and use will expand in less developed countries. Much of these expanded oilseed requirements, particularly for soybeans and sunflower, will be provided by the United States.
4256327| Forest use by Afro-American people on the Pacific coast of Choc, Colombia, was investigated using a quantitative methodology based upon informant consensus. Information was obtained for all species 5 cm dbh in three plots totaling 1.8 ha. Eighty-nine uses were recorded; 62.8% of the species, 74% of the families and 83.3% of the individuals have some use. Most uses involve subsistence activities. The most important uses were selective extraction of wood for construction, firewood, and materials for technological application. Use values for species and families were dependent on their abundance. For some particularly useful species and families (Lauraceae, Annonaceae, and Sapotaceae), however, use value was higher than expected from their abundance. This may suggest overexploitation of those species and families. Demographic studies of those species are recommended. All recorded uses are listed and information on the use values of the species is provided. /// Se investig el uso del bosque por los Afroamericanos en la costa Pacfica del Choc, Colombia, utilizando metodologa cuantitativa basada en el consenso de informantes. Se obtuvo informacin para las especies 5 cm dap encontradas en tres parcelas, para un total muestreado de 1.8 ha. Se registraron 89 usos; 62.8% de las especies, 74% de las familias y 83.3% de los individuos tienen algn uso. La mayora de usos del bosque est relacionada con actividades de subsistencia. Los usos ms importantes involucran la extraccin selectiva de madera para construccin, lea y material para aplicaciones tecnolgicas. Los valores de uso para especies y familias fueron dependientes de su abundancia. Sin embargo, el valor de uso para algunas especies y familias tiles (Lauraceae, Annonaceae y Sapotaceae) fue ms alto que lo esperado dada su abundancia. Esto sugiere que esas especies y familias estn siendo sobreexplotadas. Se recomiendan estudios demogrficos de esas especies. Se da una lista de los usos e informacin sobre las especies tiles. 
4256226| Species of the genus Amphicarpaea have been reported as edible (for human consumption or as fodder) in Asia and North America. In northern Puebla, Mxico, talet, A. bracteata, grows as a weed in multiple cropping systems, and its subterranean fruits are used as food by Nahuas, Totonacs, and Mestizos. This study documents how the seed is harvested during agricultural practices, the way in which the pleasant-tasting seeds are prepared for consumption, and how the plants are integrated in the management of the maizebean agroecosystem. We provide data on the chemical composition of talet beans, which is similar to that reported for other food legumes. Talet beans are recommended for development as a casually eaten protein supplement to the human diet in northern Puebla. /// Las especies del gnero Amphicarpaea han sido reportadas como comestibles, para consumo humano y como forraje en Asia y en Norteamrica. En el norte de Puebla, Mxico, A. bracteata, llamada talet, crece como arvense en sistemas tradicionales de cultivo mltiple y sus frutos subterrneos son usados como alimento por Nahuas y Totonacos, y Mestizos. Este trabajo documenta como las semillas son cosechadas durante las prcticas agrcolas y la manera en que son preparadas para el consumo, as como la manera en que estas plantas se integran al manejo del agroecosistema maz-frijol. Tambin se presenta la composicin qumica del talet, que en general es similar a la reportada para otras especies de leguminosas comestibles. Se sugiere el uso de las semillas subterrneas de talet para consumo humano. 
27807241|Production of agave-based food and fermented alcoholic beverages was highly relevant culturally and socially in pre-European contact western Mesoamerica. It has been hypothesized that agave distillation in western Mexico began in Colima in the early Colonial Era through adaptation of introduced Filipino techniques. Archaeological evidence is presented confirming the cultural and social significance of agave in Colima before contact, one of the fundamental conditions supporting this hypothesis. An analysis of circular subterranean stone structures in residential and ceremonial contexts (Classic and Postclassic periods: 2001500 common era [CE]), and a comparison with stone ovens currently used to cook agave for the creation of spirits, indicate these structures were probably used for preparing food, including agave. Analysis of funerary ceramic vessel offerings with agave images (Colima phase: 400600 CE) are reported for the first time. Their characteristics, and those of the associated burials and tombs, suggest those buried were agave growers or alcoholic beverage producers who fulfilled relevant roles in the society. Most of the agave images probably represent Agave angustifolia Lem and its cultivation. During the Colonial Era, the cultural and social relevance of agaves almost disappeared in Colima, possibly due to drastic reductions in the native human population, changing land use practices, and prohibitions against the production and sale of native alcoholic beverages. En el occidente de la Mesoamrica prehispnica, se elaboraban alimentos y bebidas alcohlicas fermentadas de agave con alta relevancia cultural y social. Se ha hipotetizado que en el occidente de Mxico la destilacin de agave se origin en Colima en la poca Colonial temprana a travs de la adaptacin de las tcnicas introducidas de Filipinas. Se presentan evidencias arqueolgicas que confirman la importancia cultural y social de los agaves en Colima en la poca precolombina, uno de los fundamentos de esta hiptesis. El anlisis de estructuras circulares de piedra en contextos residenciales y ceremoniales (Clsico y Post-clsico: 200-1500 d.C.) y su comparacin con hornos de piedra actualmente usados para cocer agaves para elaborar bebidas destiladas, indica que estas estructuras fueron probablemente usadas para preparar alimentos, incluyendo agaves. Se reportan por primera vez ofrendas funerarias de vasijas de cermica con representaciones de agaves (Fase Colima: 400600 d.C.). Sus caractersticas, y las de los entierros y tumbas asociados, sugieren que los personajes enterrados eran probablemente productores de agaves o de bebidas alcohlicas que tenan un papel relevante en la sociedad. La mayora de las imgenes de agave son probablemente representaciones de Agave angustifolia Lem. y su cultivo. La relevancia cultural y social de los agaves en Colima decreci en la poca Colonial hasta casi desaparecer, debido posiblemente al severo decremento de la poblacin nativa, los cambios en las prcticas agrcolas, y las prohibiciones de elaborar y comercializar las debidas alcohlicas nativas.
4255606| The Ayoreo, an Amerindian group of the Paraguayan Chaco, use ash from several plant species as sources of salt. The elemental composition of the ash of Maytenus vitis-idaea, Lycium nodosum, Trithrinax schizophylla and another sample which serve as salt sources are reported and the use of vegetal salts by indigenous South American populations is discussed. The relatively high sodium content of M. vitis-idaea may explain the widespread use of this species as a salt source by Chaco Amerindians. / Los Ayoreo, un grupo Amerindio del Chaco Paraguayo, emplean como sal las cenizas de Maytenus vitis-idaea, Lycium nodosum y Trithrinax schizophylla. Se informa la composicin elemental de las cenizas de M. vitis-idaea, L. nodosum y una muestra de sal vegetal, y se discute el empleo de sales vegetales por grupos indgenas Sudamericanos. 
4254828|The Akha are one of the 6 major tribes or minorities living in the remote hills of northern Thailand who still use extensively plants as medicines. This paper describes the Akha culture and environment and their use of medicinal plants. An appendix lists 121 different species and the medicinal use or uses attributed to them.
4252082|The bony fruits of this grass have for centuries been used in the Orient, ornamentally when polished and as food when ground into flour. The plant is today acquiring importance in Brazil as a fodder and forage crop, and the grain is being used there as poultry and cattle feed.
4251954|This oil, produced by a heavily scented herbaceous plant of the American Southwest and northern Mexico, is rich in cumaldehyde and carvone, and is therefore a potential commercial source of these fragrant aldehydes, now obtained from cumin, caraway and dill seed oils and used in flavoring food and beverages.
4253292|Local medical practices in this Pacific archipelago are reviewed, the folk taxonomy and medicinal uses of 71 plants are discussed, and the medicinal applications of each species in some other regions of the Pacific are enumerated. Included are the plant parts used, Tongan names, the illnesses, and the preparations of the remedies.
4256810|Herbs are commonly used throughout Bulgaria for medicinal purposes, in the preparation of food, decoratively, and as a source of income. A survey conducted from December, 1998 to March, 1999 revealed that fifteen herbs are commonly used throughout Bulgaria. These herbs are primarily popular medicinal species or are used in traditional cuisine. Even though herbs are commonly used throughout Bulgaria, there are significant regional differences in herb use. Local topography, natural diversity of herbs in proximity to a town, town population size, and traditional knowledge all affect regional use of herbs. Changing demographics and the transition to a market economy may reduce herb availability.
4253794| Yields of mannitol and alginic acid from dry and fresh Macrocystis pyrifera under different extraction conditions were characterized. Using seawater as the solvent for mannitol extraction, yields up to 98.5% of the total mannitol (12.4%) were obtained. A 4% Na
4255526| Five species of columnar cacti were examined with the aim of introducing new orchard crops to the Negev desert of Israel. The species comprised Stenocereus gummosus, S. griseus, S. thurberi and Pachycereus pringlei, all found in semi-arid regions of Mexico, and Cereus peruvianus, which is grown in sub-tropical regions. Young seedlings were planted at four sites in the Negev. The sites differ in climatic conditions and water quality. Growth data, expressed as total stem length and stem biomass, was obtained after five to six years in the orchards. They showed that C. peruvianus grew best in the site with moderate temperatures and good-quality water, whereas the other species also did well under more extreme conditions of high temperatures and brackish water. Growth of all species was significantly retarded at the site having water with the highest NaCl content. In the sixth year a severe drop in temperature at one of the sites caused extensive injury to C. peruvianus and S. griseus plants, raising doubts as to the suitability of that site for their cultivation. At this stage C. peruvianus is the most promising candidate for domestication. Its growth rate was much higher than that of the other species, yield was precocious and fruit of good quality. Stem tissue ion concentrations (dry weight basis) showed that accumulation of K
27807217|Huixincao (Rhodobryum (Schimp.) Limpr.) is a medicinal moss used for minor heart problems throughout Yunnan province by many of the different minority groups that live there. To study variation in the use of this plant, we conducted interviews with herb sellers and collectors in different areas of Yunnan province. Components of herbal prescriptions that included Huixincao were used as a proxy to quantify variation in use and knowledge of this medicinal moss. According to this method, variation in the use of Huixincao is not correlated with gender, occupation, or ethnicity, but instead appears to be structured by geography. The use of herbs like Huixincao is, to some degree, standardized across both geographical and cultural contexts through the force of widely available herb books published in the 1970s. These books were published as part of China's directive to enhance the medical system in rural areas and to develop knowledge about Chinese herbs. The books have also allowed for standardized knowledge about this medicinal moss to be translated across very different cultural contexts, ranging from rural areas to traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) hospitals and medical colleges.
41001197|Plant management types currently practiced in the Tehuacn-Cuicatln Valley, Mxico, were documented and analyzed based on ethnobotanical studies conducted in 13 villages with six indigenous groups and Mestizo people. The information was organized in a data base, and then detailed and guided to a consensus through six workshops carried out by ethnobotanists working in the area. From a total of 1,608 useful plant species, we identified 610 with at least one management type other than simple gathering. Managed species are mainly used as food, fodder, medicinal, and ornamental, and they belong to 101 plant families. The higher species numbers were recorded in Cactaceae, Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Crassulaceae, and Agavaceae. Nearly 60% of the managed species are native to the region and the rest are introduced from other regions of Mexico and the world. In total, 400 species are ex situ managed out of their natural environments through seed sowing and/or planting their vegetative propagules or entire young plants; 373 species are in situ managed in their natural habitats as follows: all these species are deliberately left standing during vegetation clearance, 76 species are also enhanced intentionally favoring their abundance through modifications of their habitat, or directly by planting their propagules, and 51 receive protection through regulations, particular strategies of extraction, and actions against herbivores, competitors, freezing, radiation, and drought. Most management forms involve artificial selection at different intensity levels. The information allows visualizing co-occurrence of incipient and advanced forms of management at different intensity levels within and among species, which helps to postulate testable hypotheses on factors influencing plant management and domestication in an important area for studying the origins of agriculture. Se documentaron los diferentes tipos de manejo de plantas que practican actualmente los pobladores del Valle de Tehuacn-Cuicatln, Mxico. El anlisis se basa en estudios etnobotnicos llevados a cabo en 13 comunidades campesinas con seis grupos indgenas y poblados mestizos. La informacin se organiz en una base de datos, la cual posteriormente se detall y se consens a travs de seis talleres en los que participaron los etnobotnicos trabajando en la regin y cuyos trabajos son la base de esta investigacin. De un total de 1,608 especies de plantas tiles, identificamos 610 con al menos un tipo de manejo distinto a la recoleccin simple. Las especies manejadas pertenecen a 101 familias botnicas y se utilizan principalmente como alimento, forraje, medicina y ornamentales. Los mayores nmeros de especies manejadas se registraron entre las Cactaceae, Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Crassulaceae y Agavaceae. Aproximadamente 60% de las especies manejadas son nativas de la regin y el resto son introducidas de otras regiones de Mxico y del mundo. En total, 400 especies se manejan ex situ, fuera de sus ambientes naturales, mediante la siembra de sus semillas y la plantacin de sus propgulos vegetativos o plantas juveniles; 373 especies se manejan in situ en sus hbitats naturales como sigue: todas estas especies se dejan en pie deliberadamente durante el aclareo de la vegetacin; 76 especies son adems promovidas intencionalmente, favoreciendo sus abundancias mediante modificaciones a sus hbitats o directamente plantando sus propgulos; y 51 especies reciben proteccin a travs de reglas comunitarias, estrategias particulares de extraccin y acciones contra herbvoros, competidores, heladas, radiacin solar y sequas. La mayor parte de las formas de manejo involucran seleccin artificial a diferentes niveles de intensidad. La informacin permite visualizar la ocurrencia de formas de manejo incipientes y avanzadas a diferentes niveles de intensidad, simultneamente dentro de una misma especie y entre especies. Esto permite postular hiptesis probables sobre los factores que influyen el manejo de plantas y su domesticacin en una regin importante para el estudio sobre el origen de la agricultura.
4254954|Traditional ocean-going canoes represent the pinnacle of South Pacific craftmanship, and Fijian canoes are among the finest. The special hardwood used by the Fijians for their canoes grows well on the island of Kabara, Fiji where canoe building expertise is centered. Native craftsmen were contracted to construct a canoe at Kabara. Twenty different species of plants were used in the construction of a Fijian "camakau." Wood was skillfully chosen by the carpenters with material constraints in mind. The glue, rope, and sail were also constructed from native plant materials obtained from Kabara. The importance of the canoe building technology in the Pacific, and the unique flora of Kabara shaped Kabara into an island of strategic influence in the South Pacific.
4252295|Several species of Aloe are cultivated in the tropics for their subepidermal yellow latex which, on evaporation, becomes the well known cathartic, "bitter aloes." Little has been written of the folk uses of the translucent parenchyma of the succulent leaves as a soothing, astringent, and healing poultice for skin diseases, wounds, burns and eye afflictions, and as a potion for various internal ailments. There is a small industry in Florida, based originally on the marketing of the fresh leaves and, subsequently, on the utilization of the pulp in ointments, cosmetic creams, lotions, shampoos and sundry other products.
41001174|In Kurdistan, natural dyes once played an important role in the life of nomads as they wild-crafted and traded natural dyes for their survival. They learned from their family how to find, harvest, process, and dye with natural dyes. Abandonment of weaving and the nomadic life, and recent changes in the economy have contributed to significant changes in the natural dyeing culture. Traditional knowledge of natural dyeing plants is no longer common among weavers. This study documents the surviving knowledge of dye plant species and assesses the transmission of knowledge between elderly weavers and a younger generation of weavers' apprentices. Information on dyeing and dyeing plants was elicited through a species recognition task using picture cards, a pile-sorting task, and through in-depth interviews with nomads in the mountains of the Soran district as well as weaving teachers and students in the city of Erbil, Kurdish Autonomous Region, Iraq. Consensus analysis of pile-sorting data supports the hypothesis that informants belong to a single culture. The results confirm the erosion of natural dyeing culture in Kurdistan and stress the need to stimulate knowledge transfer from the elderly, empirical generation to the younger, learning generation. The study also uncovered the existence of a keen interest among the student informants in traditional herbal medicine. If this trend is true for Kurdish urban youth in general, then it could lead to a revival and perpetuation of traditional plant knowledge.                       .                    .                                          .                               .                          .                                                                                                                                         .           .                                                                        .                  .                             .           
4256061| Beta vulgaris L. played an important economic role in Mormon settlements from 1852 to 1979. The introduction of the sugarbeet from Europe supplied not only a source of sugar and income, but also a sense of dignity and independence to early Mormon pioneers seeking refuge from intense religious persecution. As the major cash crop in early Mormon settlements, cultivation of sugarbeet directly provided security for farmers, and indirectly the economic foundation for workers in many other areas. However, in the last three decades, changes in world and U.S. sugar prices have rendered sugarbeet cultivation in some areas of the Intermountain West economically untenable, and the crop has been commercially abandoned. /// Beta vulgaris L. jug un papel econmico de suma importancia en Utah entre 1852 a 1979. La introductin de la remolacha de Europa traj consigo no solamente una fuente de azucar e ingresso, pero tambien un sentimiento entre la gente de dignindad e independencia a los pioneros Mormones buscando refugio de la persecutin religiosa. Como la cosecha de mayor importancia entre las comunidades Mormones, la cultivation de la remolacha poda proveer directamente por la seguridad de los granjeros, e indirectamente la fundatin economico por trabajadores en muchas otras areas. Sin embargo, durante las ultimas tres dcadas, por causa de cambios en los precios de azucar mundial y en Los Estados Unidos ha hecho la cultivatin de la remolacha en algunas areas del Intermountain West impossible economicamente, y la cosecha de tal ha sido abandonado. 
4253736| Cayn represents an early village-farming community dating from about 7,000 B.C. Plant husbandry was practiced from the beginning. The plant inventory is listed and changes in food dependency evaluated. Attempts are made to relate these changes to related ecological and cultural conditions. 
4256551| The importance of incorporating traditional ecological knowledge (TEK) and traditional resource management (TRM) into resource management plans is increasingly recognized, but little quantitative data exists on the ecological and economic implications of these systems. We quantitatively evaluate the TEK and TRM associated with the nontimber forest species, Aechmea magdalenae, in indigenous Chinanteco communities in Mexico. Two TRM systems for A. magdalenae are described and their effects on growth rates of individuals and populations are measured. Simulations using matrix population models combined with yield experiments reveal that one management system is higher yielding and less costly than the other. Thinning and transplanting are two of the most important management practices that enable populations to withstand higher rates of harvest than those predicted in a mangement plan that was not based on TRM. Quantitative evaluation of Chinanteco TEK is used to discuss how it may be best combined with science in management plans for nontimber forest species. /// El reconocimiento de la importancia de incorporar el conocimiento ecologico tradicional (CET) y el manejo tradicional de recursos (MTR) en planes de manejo de recursos naturales ha venido creciendo, pero an existe poca informacin cuntitativa sobre las implicaciones econmicas y ecolgicas de estas sistemas. Se cuantificaron el CET y el MTR asociado con una especie no maderable, Aechmea magdalenae, en comunidades indgenas chinantecas en Mxico. Se describieron dos sistemas chinantecos de manejo de A. magdalenae, y se midieron sus efectos sobre el crecimiento de individuos y de poblaciones. Simulaciones con modelos matriciales, combinados con experimentos de rendimiento mostraron que uno de los sistemas renda ms y a menor costo que el otro. El aclareo y el transplante fueron de las tcnicas de manejo ms importantes, mismas que permitieron que las poblaciones soportaran una intensidd de cosecha ms alta que lo previsto por un plan de manejo previo. La evaluacin cuantitativa del CET chinanteco es usada para reflexionar sobre como este podra ser combinado de mejor manera con la ciencia para la elaboracin de planes de manejo de especies no maderables. 
41242929|Anthropogenic soils of Amazonia, known as Amazonian Dark Earths (ADE), are environments with elevated soil fertility that can produce crops that otherwise yield poorly on the leached and highly acidic Oxisols that dominate much of the basin. While ADE sites near urban centers often attract commercial horticultural production of nutrientdemanding exotics, these soils are also considered possibly unique reservoirs of endemic agrobiodiversity because of their relationship to preColumbian indigenous occupation. Through botanical surveys and interviews with smallholder farmers, this study compared useful species richness, proportion of exotic species, and market orientation of farms situated on ADE and nonanthropogenic Oxisols in the municipality of Borba in Central Brazilian Amazonia. Species richness was similar on Amazonian Dark Earth and Oxisol farms (19.6 spp vs. 18.3 spp); however, ADE farms showed significantly higher proportions of exotic species (39% vs. 26%; p= 0.025). Furthermore, ADE farms in Borba demonstrated significantly higher market orientation (61.0% vs. 47.3%; p= 0.028), likely a result of the advantage of Amazonian Dark Earths for production of crops that are nutrient-demanding or pH-sensitive crops that have higher values in the nearby regional market of Manaus. Solos antrpicos da Amaznia, conhecidos como terra preta de ndio (ADE), so ambientes de alta fertilidade capazes de sustentar a produo de cultivos que no se desenvolvem bem nos latossolos cidos e pobres da bacia Amaznica. Stios em ADE prximos a centros urbanos so frequentemente utilizados para a produo comercial de cultivos exticos, embora esses solos sejam tambm considerados reservatrios de agrobiodiversidade endmica devido  sua relao com a ocupao indgena na poca Pr-colombiana. Utilizando dados de inventrios florsticos e de entrevistas com pequenos agricultores, esse estudo comparou a riqueza de espcies teis, a proporo de espcies exticas e a orientao para o mercado em stios sobre ADE e sobre latossolos no municpio de Borba, Amazonas, Brasil. A riqueza de espcies  similar em ADE e em latossolos (19,6 spp. vs. 18,3 spp.), entretanto os agricultores manejam em ADE urna maior proporo de espcies exticas (39% vs. 26%; p=0,025). Alm disso, os stios em ADE tm maior orientao para o mercado (61% vs. 47,3%), o que est provavelmente relacionado  vantagem que ADE oferece para a produo de cultivos exigentes em nutrientes ou sensveis  acidez do solo, que so mais valorizados no mercado regional de Manaus.
4287826|Sixteen kinds of bamboo shoots are here classified on the basis of their acridity, and recipes given for preparation of them as articles of food.
4255501| Data are presented on the ecology and production of Icacina oliviformis (Poiret) Raynal in natural stands in northern Central African Republic. The species grows on a variety of soils and in numerous plant communities. It is fire adapted, and thrives when burned in the early dry season. The plant is primarily bee pollinated and has a number of pests that infest the stems and young fruits. Plant densities are high, with a maximum of ca. 5345 plants/ha in the study sites. Standing tuberous root biomass can be considerable, with a maximum of ca. 19 904 kg/ha for the study sites. Seed yield in the sample sites was relatively low with a maximum of ca. 214 kg/ha. With proper management, yields of both seed and tuberous roots could be substantially increased. / L'objet de ce papier est la presentation de l'cologie et la production dans des peuplements naturels d'Icacina oliviformis dans le nord de la Rpublique Centrafricaine. Cette espce est adapte  plusieurs associations phytocologiques et  plusieurs formations pdologiques. I. oliviformis est une pyrophyte et pousse mieux sous un regime de brulis annuels. Les principaux vecteurs de pollinisation sont les abeilles. Les tiges et les jeunes fruits sont attaqus par divers insectes nuisibles. Les densits maximales des plantes sont trs leves avec un maximum de 5345 pieds/ha dans les parcelles tudies. La biomasse des tubercules peut tre trs leve, atteignant 19 904 kg/ha dans les parcelles tudies. La production annuelle de graines est assez faible, elle atteind un maximum de 214 kg/ha. La production de tubercules et de graines pourraient tre beaucoup plus leves avec un systeme agricole appropri. 
4254041| "The first duty of a plant collector on visiting a new place is to see the markets to gain clues to his future work and, if it is native medicinal plants, call upon the females. In Mexico they are the magicians of medical lore and cures handed down from one to the other. Perhaps their [remedy] may be as correct at least as the average patent medicine of the United States." Dr. Edward Palmer, 1878, in San Luis Potos, Mexico. 
4253267|The saguaro, Carnegiea gigantea, is a tall cactus native to the desert area of southern Arizona and northern Sonora, Mexico. It has been used for centuries among the Indians of the region as a source of food and drink, as well as for a wide variety of other purposes. The cactus has taken a great place in the life of the Indians, most notably the Papago, who still collect the fruit and make a wine for ceremonial purposes from it. Several botanical, ethnobotanical and phytochemical studies have been made on the cactus, whose flower is the State Flower of Arizona.
4255515|Recent studies of non-timber products from tropical rain forests have emphasized the economic value of these products and the sustainability of present harvests. Many of these studies rely upon a set of untested assumptions about the effects of harvesting upon the forest and the economic value of non-timber forest products in both the marketplace and in the daily life of rural people. These assumptions were formulated as a series of hypotheses during the workshop held in the Regional Community Forestry Training Center, Kesetsart University, Bangkok, in May 1992. The six hypotheses developed by workshop participants will be used to guide future research. As the hypotheses are tested, the data will be used to create a more realistic assessment of the sustainability and economic value of extraction of non-timber products from tropical forests.
4255045|Nine samples of the moss Claopodium crispifolium were collected for large-scale fractionation to isolate antitumor agents. Each sample was active in the P388 Lymphocytic leukemia and KB cell culture, bioassays commonly used to guide the fractionation procedure. Notable variation in the test results among the samples led to re-examination of the voucher samples to determine possible causes. A blue-green alga, Nostoc cf. microscopium, was found to be common on the moss leaves in samples with the best activity. We propose that Nostoc cf. microscopium, or perhaps closely associated organism(s), could be the direct source of the bioactivity, or that the bioactivity could also be a result of allelopathy.
4254208| The authors spent approximately 5 weeks in Mexico (October 13-November 15, 1979) collecting Cucurbitaceae in 5 areas: 1) Tampico-Valles-Ocampo; 2) San Luis Potosi; 3) Celaya-Queretaro; 4) Veracruz; 5) Zacatecas-Durango-Mazatlan. A few supplemental collections were made in the vicinity of Tapachula, Chiapas. A grand total of 183 Cucurbita collections was made, distributed as follows: C. pepo-49; C. moschata-47; C. mixta-41; C. ficifolia-11; C. foetidissima-13; Cucurbita sp. wild, unidentified-22. A few collections were made in the following genera: Sechium-4; Lagenaria-2; Sicana-1; Momordica-4; Sicyos-2; Cucumis melo-2; C. anguria-1. The ecological distribution of the 4 cultivated species is reported and discussed. Seed of these materials was divided equally between the participating countries, and will be made available to interested plant breeders. /// Los autores pasaron aproximadamente cinco semanas en Mxico (13 octubre a 15 noviembre, 1979) recogiendo Cucurbitaceae (principalmente Cucurbita). Sus esfuerzos fueron concentrados en cinco reas: 1) Tampico-Valles-Ocampo; 2) San Luis Potos; 3) Celaya-Queretaro; 4) Veracruz; 5) Zacatecas-Durango-Mazatln. Se hieieron unas pocas colecciones suplementarias en la vecindad de Tapachula, Chiapas. Un gran total de 183 colecciones de Cucurbita fueron hechas distribuidas como siguen: C. pepo-49; C. moschata-47; C. mixta-41; C. ficifolia-11; C. foetidissima-13; Cucurbita sp. silvestres, y las que no pueden ser identificadas-22. Unas colecciones pequenas fueron hechas de la siguiente genera: Sechium-4; Lagenaria-2; Sicana-1; Momordica-4; Sicyos-2; Cucumis melo-2; C. anguria-1. La distribucin ecologica de las cuatro especies cultivadas es comunicada y discutida. Las semillas de estas materiales fueron divididas igualmente entre los paises que participaron, y sern disponibles para criadores interesados de las plantas. 
4256905| This is a cultural, ecological, economic, geographical and historical study of the close wild relatives of sesame in Africa. Medical, culinary, cosmetic and industrial use of each species is assembled along with ethnographic and linguistic data. Collectively, it presents a summary of the genetic resources of Sesamum. The relative importance of each species varies by location, however most of these taxa are used in strikingly similar ways by subsistence farmers. Comparison of usage by ethnic group reveals the social role these valuable leaf vegetables play in daily life, particularly during times of shortage and famine. Fieldwork provides firsthand data, supplementing herbarium specimens and the published literature about the distribution, uses and environmental adaptations of wild Sesamum species and their close relative, Ceratotheca sesamoides Endl. /// C'est une tude culturelle, cologique, conomique, gographique et historique des parents sauvages troits du ssame en Afrique. L'utilisation mdicale, culinaire, cosmtique et industrielle de chaque espce est assemble avec des donnes ethnographiques et linguistiques. Collectivement, elle prsente un sommaire des ressources gntiques de l'espces Sesamum. L'importance relative de chaque espce change par endroit; toutefois la plupart de ces taxa sont employes de manires semblables par les fermiers de subsistance. La comparison de l'utilisation par les groupes ethniques indique le rle social que ces importants lgumes verts jouent dans la vie quotidienne, en particulier pendant des priodes de manque et de famine. Les travaux sur le terrain fournissent des donnes de base, compltant ainsi les spcimens d'herbier et la littrature dite au sujet de la distribution, des utilisations et des adaptations aux environements des espces sauvages de Sesamum et de leur parent troit, Ceratotheca sesamoides Endl. 
4252181|Seed extracts of 311 species of plants were observed for agglutinating activity with human blood cells in an attempt to find plant sources of naturally occurring hemagglutinins for specific blood types. Of the 45 species with specific activity, Bauhinia variegata L. is promising as a source of anti-N agglutinin.
4287952|Importers claim that each year they could process and sell approximately 15,000 tons of pistachio nuts if they were available. Presently, only a small quantity are produced commercially in California. Experimental work with selected imported varieties, breeding, cultivating, pruning and other horticultural practises at the United States Department of Agriculture's Plant Introduction Station at Chico, California has demonstrated the economic feasibility of this crop for American growers.
27807218|This paper investigates traditional knowledge of the use and management of Acca sellowiana in southern Brazil. Fifty-six informants from three rural communities were assigned to one of four subgroups ("maintainers," "managers," "cultivators," or "users") based on their responses regarding management and use of A. sellowiana. Traditional knowledge related to use of this species is widespread among rural residents, but traditional knowledge related to management is fragmented depending on whether one uses, manages, or cultivates the species. Knowledge held in rural communities suggests that A. sellowiana could play an expanded role in local economies as well as biodiversity conservation. We suggest that participatory research could stimulate greater local use as well as on-farm conservation of A. sellowiana.
4254406|Immature okra pods are commonly consumed as a vegetable. In addition, okra has attributes that could permit it to be used for other purposes. Leaves, buds, and flowers are edible; dried seeds could provide oil, protein, vegetable curd, and a coffee additive or substitute. Foliage could be used for biomass, and the dried stems could serve as a source of paper pulp or fuel. The possible gossypol and cyclopropenoid contents of okraseed must be considered when food or feed use for monogastrates is contemplated. Although little development work has been done with okra, available germ plasm appears to be sufficiently diverse to permit genetic improvement.
4287929|Charcoal is the most ancient of manufactured plant products, dating from early prehistoric times. Today about 375,000 tons are annually produced in the United States, to be used not only as fuel but also in the metallurgical industry and as a chemical raw material. Both hardwoods and softwoods are converted into it.
4255742| An ethnobotanical inventory of lianas was carried out in a 1-ha plot of tropical moist forest in the Cuyabeno Reserve, Amazonian Ecuador. We obtained information about the uses that the Siona-Secoya Indians have for lianas. Of 98 species in the 1-ha plot, 47% were useful for the Siona-Secoya. Of the species used, 67% were for medicines, food, stimulants, and poisons; 17% had ritual applications, and 15% were used to make ropes or to weave baskets, toys, and ornaments. The species of lianas that were most useful were the ones with the highest values of ecological parameters such as density, dominance, and relative length. There is a close relationship between the ecological characteristics of the liana community and the uses made of it by the Indians. /// Una parcela de vegetacin de 1-ha fue estudiada con el propsito de identificar las especies de lianas que son utilizadas por los indgenas Siona-Secoya de la Reserva Cuyabeno, Amazonia Ecuatoriana. De un total de 98 especies, el 47% fue registrado como til para los indgenas. El 67% de las especies tiles tuvo aplicaciones como remedios, alimentos, estimulantes y venenos; 17% tuvo un significado ritual y 15% se utiliz como cuerdas para amarrar, tejer y elaborar adornos corporales y juguetes. Un anlisis ecolgico-cuantitativo de los datos recolectados en la parcela revel que las especies de lianas utilizadas por los indgenas Siona-Secoya fueron las que alcanzaron las cifras ms altas de densidad, dominancia y longitud relativas. Los resultados sugieren que existe una relacin estrecha entre las caractersticas ecolgicas de la comunidad de lianas con los usos encontrados por los indgenas. 
41408241|In the Yungas region of the Salta province, Argentina, interest in the use of plant dyes has revived due to new market demands and the growth of rural tourism. In this study we compare the use of dyeing plants recorded between 1994 and 2000 with those used in 2007 and 2008. We also address factors currently involved in the acquisition and transmission of knowledge. We worked with 39 randomly chosen participants (of which 11 were artisans) in the first stage, and 32 artisans in the second stage. Information was gathered during semi-structured interviews and structured questionnaires. Eleven and 57 dye plant species, and 10 and 2 mordants, were registered in the first and second stage, respectively. The use of soft plant parts has increased, relative to the employment of roots and barks. Pastels predominate among the colors obtained. Mothers are the main transmitters of this knowledge; however, new mechanisms of knowledge acquisition and transfer are gaining importance. These results provide an alternative for the diversification and quality of existing crafts. En las Yungas de la provincia de Salta, Argentina, ha resurgido el inters por el uso de tintes vegetales debido a nuevas demandas del mercado y al turismo rural. Se compara el uso de plantas tintreas registrado entre 1994 y 2000 con las empleadas en el 2007 y 2008. Se analizan los factores que actualmente intervienen en la adquisicin y transmisin del conocimiento. En una primera etapa se trabaj con 39 personas elegidas al azar (11 de las cuales eran artesanas) y en una segunda con 32 artesanas. Se realizaron entrevistas semiestructuradas y estructuradas. Se detectaron 11 y 57 especies tintreas, 10 y 2 mordientes, en el primer y segundo perodo respectivamente. Ha aumentado el uso de rganos blandos en relacin al de races y cortezas. Los colores obtenidos son pasteles en su mayora. Se hall que las madres son las principales transmisoras de estos conocimientos, no obstante, actualmente cobraron importancia nuevos mecanismos de adquisicin y transmisin. La aplicacin de los resultados de este estudio puede proveer alternativas para la dversificacin y la calidad de las artesanas actuales.
4255249| Trees and shrubs of Mexico by P. C. Standley (1920-1926) gives medicinal uses and poisonous properties for a variety of plants. The literature since 1920 has been reviewed for further properties of the medicinal papilionoid legumes mentioned by Standley, as well as some of their allies, and the results are presented here. It is hoped that this review will not only provide a useful update to Standley's work, but will also draw attention to certain species which have been little studied since Standley's time. /// Esta contribucin es el resultado de una revisin bibliogrfica sobre la subfamilia Papilionoideae (Leguminosae) con usos medicinales y/o propriedades venenosas de la flora de Mexico. Adems de la gran cantidad de informacion etnobotnica sobra leguminosas que han sido mencionada por Standley (1920-1926) en Los arboles et arbustos de Mexico, se repartan nuevos datos de la literatura moderna, especialmente los referentes a las caracteristicas qumicas de algunas especies. Se sealan algunas plantas que se consideran importantes ya mencionadas por Standley que lamentablemente no han sido estudiadas desde entonces. 
4251843|From the coasts of Nova Scotia, Maine, Massachusetts, North Carolina, California and Lower California, seaweeds are harvested that yield agar, algin, carrageenin and iridophycin for industrial use.
4254996|The Cactaceae contain many economically promising species primarily in the genus Opuntia. This genus appears to have its center of genetic diversity in Mexico where it is widely used as fodder, forage, fruit, and a green vegetable. In southwestern United States, the prickly-pears have been considered as both weeds and valuable forage plants. During the frequent, unpredictable droughts, propane torches known as "pear burners" are used to singe the spines off cactus pads so that they can be eaten by livestock. Although spineless varieties of Opuntia can be consumed directly by domestic livestock, they are extremely susceptible to herbivory by wildlife. The Cactaceae possess Crassulacean Acid Metabolism, which can be four- to five-fold more efficient in converting water to dry matter than the most efficient grasses. Some Opuntia strains grow rapidly with fresh-fruit yields of 8,000-12,000 kg/ha/yr or more and dry-matter vegetative production of 20,000-50,000 kg/ha/yr.
4251872|Old-World sources of botanical drugs are still foremost, despite attempts during the two World Wars to develop American sources of Digitalis, Juniper berries, African peppers, Spearmint, Peppermint, Belladonna, Rhubarb root, Arnica flowers, Stramonium, Chamomile flowers and Fennel seed.
4255369| Evidence for genetic diversity in cultivated common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) is reviewed. Multivariate statistical analyses of morphological, agronomic, and molecular data, as well as other available information on Latin American landraces representing various geographical and ecological regions of their primary centers of domestications in the Americas, reveal the existence of two major groups of germplasm: Middle American and Andean South American, which could be further divided into six races. Three races originated in Middle America (races Durango, Jalisco, and Mesoamerica) and three in Andean South America (races Chile, Nueva Granada, and Peru). Their distinctive characteristics and their relationships with previously reported gene pools are discussed. /// Se presenta una revisin sobre la evidencia de variabilidad gentica en el frjol cultivado (Phaseolus vulgaris). De acuerdo con los anlisis estadsticos multivariados de datos morfolgicos, agronmicos y moleculares y con informacin adicional disponible sobre variedades criollas de Amrica Latina que representan varias regiones ecolgicas y geogrficas de sus centros primarios de domesticacin en las Amricas, se establece la existencia de los dos grupos principales de germoplasma: los de Mesoamrica y de los Andes suramericanos; los cuales pueden ser divididos en seis razas. Tres razas se originaron en Mesoamrica (razas Durango, Jalisco y Mesoamrica) y tres en los Andes suramericanos (razas Chile, Nueva Granada y Per). Se discuten sus caractersticas distintivas y sus relaciones con otros acervos de genes reportados anteriormente. 
4257194|Darwin developed his theory of evolution based on an analogy between artificial selection by breeders of his day and "natural selection." For Darwin, selection included what biologists came to see as being composed of (1) phenotypic selection of individuals based on phenotypic differences, and, when these are based on heritable genotypic differences, (2) genetic response between generations, which can result in (3) evolution (cumulative directional genetic response over generations). The use of the term "selection" in biology and plant breeding today reflects Darwin's assumption-phenotypic selection is only biologically significant when it results in evolution. In contrast, research shows that small-scale, traditionally-based farmers select seed as part of an integrated production and consumption system in which selection is often not part of an evolutionary process, but is still useful to farmers. Extending Darwin's analogy to farmers can facilitate communication between farmers, biologists, and plant breeders to improve selection and crop genetic resource conservation.
25568893|Vanilla planifolia, a highly prized tropical crop, produces commercial vanilla. We investigated RAPD genetic diversity and geographical structure within V. planifolia. Multivariate analyses revealed three separate geographical groups of V. planifolia: a) a Costa Rican group; b) a Mexican group consisting only of cultivated plants from north of the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt; and c) a Mexican group from Oaxaca, Chiapas, and Quintana Roo, which are wild and wild-sourced cultivated plants. It appears likely that human action has resulted in movement of northern Mexican plants into the region south of the Volcanic Belt. When supposed translocants are included, a significantly higher genetic diversity is observed south of the Volcanic Belt compared to northern Mexico. Furthermore, cultivar names used in V. planifolia do not appear to reflect genetically defined groups.
27807242|Horseradish (Armoracia rusticana) has been cultivated for its root for over 2,000 years. Today, commercial production takes place primarily in North America and Europe where A. rusticana is propagated exclusively vegetatively. Like many vegetatively-propagated crops, cultivated A. rusticana plants are generally sterile. Armoracia rusticana is one of three species in the genus: A. macrocarpa is native to the Central Danube River Basin, A. rusticana is putatively native to Eastern Europe, and A. sisymbrioides is native to Siberia. Documenting the ways in which the three Armoracia species are used in their putative native ranges and the reproductive biology of Armoracia in these regions will advance understanding of the role of humans in the evolution of sterility in A. rusticana. In this broad-scale ethnobotanical analysis, we document 1) which Armoracia species are used in different geographic regions, 2) the reproductive biology of cultivated and natural Armoracia populations, and 3) the uses of Armoracia species in their native areas. Fieldwork was conducted in Austria, Bulgaria, Romania, and Russia. Ethnobotanical data were collected through written questionnaires. In all areas visited, A. rusticana is the primary Armoracia species; however, there is regional variation in the way the plant is used. Armoracia rusticana is propagated vegetatively and is not found in the wild. Armoracia macrocarpa and A. sisymbrioides reproduce by seed in nature. These data provide an understanding of contemporary uses and management strategies of Armoracia species in their native ranges, demonstrate the differential reproductive biology of a clonally-propagated crop relative to its wild progenitors, and emphasize the importance of ethnobotanical data collection for crops and their wild relatives from a broad geographic range.
4255743| The traditional, current and potential uses of Myoporum species are documented. Historically, this genus was valued by the Australian Aboriginal people for cultural purposes and as a food plant of minor importance. Medicinal remedies were also acquired from this shrub. Myoporum species were utilised by Aboriginal people in both coastal and Central Australia and throughout the Pacific region. These hardy shrubs are characterised by their drought, fire, frost and grazing tolerances. They have horticultural potential and are good sources of selected phytochemicals. /// On est bien document sur les utilisations traditionnelles, actuelles ou potentielles, de l' espces de Myoporum. Dans le temps anciens, ce genus tait prise par les Aborignes d' Australie, dans des desseins culturels, mais aussi, moins frquemment, comme nourriture. Cet arbuste fournissait galement une plante mdicinale. Les Aborignes du littoral, du centre de l' Australie, et de toute la rgion Pacifique utilisaient l' espce Myoporum. Ces plantes robustes sont caractrise par sas rsistance  la scheresse, au feu, au givre et au pturage. Elles reprsente un potential horticole et une source bnfique de produits phytochimiques de choix. 
4252139|The ancient Egyptian art of embalming, a highly developed process, involved many plants and plant products. Thirty-one genera of plants have been mentioned by various writers in the operations of embalming, cosmetic application, wrapping and coffin construction. The materials employed and methods of use have interested scholars of all periods. Herodotus gave the earliest account of the various aspects of embalming.
4255691| Interest in Phyllanthus amarus (Euphorbiaceae) has been generated by reports of antiviral activity and wide usage in traditional medicine. Attempts at cultivation resulted in poor stands. The objectives of these studies were to determine the effects of light, storage temperature, age of seeds, time of dehiscence, and a scarification procedure on the germination of P. amarus. Seeds of P. amarus require light to germinate, and thus should not be covered at sowing. Freezing did not significantly affect the germination of dry seeds compared to seeds stored at ambient room temperature or higher, but storage at 10C was deleterious. Percent germination was typically less than 50% and significantly decreased with time. Germination of freshly harvested seeds was slower than older seeds. Seeds from the first capsules to dehisce had a higher percent germination. A scarification procedure rendered seeds inviable. These results helped explain poor stands seen in field plots. In a previously planted plot, the re-established stand by natural reseeding was equivalent to that following intentional reseeding procedures. / Segn se ha informado el inters en cuanto a Phyllanthus amarus (Euphorbiaceae) es debido a su actividad antiviral y su uso en la medicina tradicional. Al intentar su cultivo, la post-germinacin fue menos de lo esperado. Los objetivos de estos estudios fueron probar los efectos de la luz, la temperatura de almacenamiento, la edad de las semillas, el periodo de la apertura de las cpsulas conteniendo las semillas y un procedimiento de escarificacin en la germinacin de P. amarus. Las semillas de P. amarus necesitan luz para germinar; es por eso que no se las debe cubrir al sembrar. Temperaturas de congelamiento no afectaron significativamente la germinacin de las semillas secas al compararlas con las semillas mantenidas bajo temperatura ambiental o ms alta, pero sin embargo el almacenamiento a 10C s afect severamente la viabilidad. El porcentaje de viabilidad por lo general fue bajo, generalmente menos de 50%, y disminuy con el tiempo. Las semillas nuevas germinaron ms lentas que las semillas ms viejas. Las primeras semillas que salieron de las cpsulas mostraron un mayor porcentaje de germinacin. El procedimiento de escarificacin que se prob dio semillas inviables. Estos resultados ayudan a explicar la baja post-germinacin observada en el campo. En terrenos anteriormente sembrados, la post-germinacin de siembra natural fue equivalente a los procedimientos intencionales de siembra. 
4255847| Attalea colenda is a monoecious palm found in pastures in coastal Ecuador. In dry regions, it is a valuable source of oil in self-sufficiency farming or in combination with cattle in pastures. The palm was studied over a gradient of dry to humid environments during two fruiting seasons. Palm growth, production of leaves, inflorescences, and infructescences, number of fruits per infructescence, and seed weight of five populations were evaluated. The individual of average size is 15 m tall, which corresponds to approximately 30-40 years of age. No difference in fruit production was recorded between wet and dry regions of coastal Ecuador. The average production of one hectare of pasture, with 50 palms, was 0.9 t of oil per year. One population that was part of an agroforestry system produced 50% more fruits than the average of all populations in pasture. /// Attalea colenda es una palma monoica que se encuentra en los pastizales de las zonas costeras del Ecuador. En las regiones secas, la palma es un valioso recurso de aceite para los granjeros a pequea escala, o en combinacin con el ganado en los pastizales. El estudio fu llevado a cabo sobre un gradiente de hbitats, de secos a hmedos, durante dos estaciones de fruitificacin. Se evalu el crecimiento de la palma, la produccin de hojas, inflorescencias e infrutescencias, as como el nmero de frutos por infrutescencia y el peso de las semillas de cinco poblaciones diferentes. El tamao medio de los individuos es 15 m de alto, el cul corresponde aproximadamente a 30-40 aos de edad. No se registr diferencia en la produccin de frutos entre las regiones secas y hmedas costeras del Ecuador. La produccin media de aceite, en una hectrea de pastizal con 50 palmas, fu de 0.9 t por ao. Una de las poblaciones, que fu parte de un sistema agroforestal, produjo un 50% ms de frutos que el trmino medio de todas las poblaciones de los pastizales. 
4255190| This paper provides a brief account of 40 plants associated with herbal remedies among the Lodhas, a tribe of Midnapur district, West Bengal, India. Reports from informants were obtained during field studies between 1977 and 1982. The data are compared with information obtained from some other tribal societies like the Santals and the Oraons inhabiting neighbouring regions. The Lodhas have had a rich herbal folklore, but this is fading due to increasing acculturation and depletion of plant cover. /// Cette titre se pourvoir une bref rapport des quarantes plantes associes avec les herbes medicales parmi Lodhas, une tribe de Midnapure arrondisement de Bengal occidental, des Indes. Rapports obtenues des informateurs pendant les etudis dans le champ entre 1977 et 1982. Les donnes sont compare avec les informations obtenues des autres societes tribales comme les Santals et les Oraons inhabites aux regions voisins. Les Lodhas a eu une riche folklore herbal, mais ce disparaitre de plus en plus de acculturation et du epuisement de converture des plantes. 
4254769| This paper presents evidence that cultivars of manioc (Manihot esculenta) have been selected for combinations of characters that allow them to be perceptually distinguished. This mode of selection is proposed to explain why cultivars are so variable in perceptually salient taxonomic characters unrelated to the use or survival of the plant. This paper reanalyzes published material on manioc and related species and presents new evidence from the inventory of manioc cultivars maintained by the Aguaruna Jvaro of northern Peru. Rogers and Fleming's (1973) sample of manioc cultivars exhibits 3 characteristics implied by the model of selection for perceptual distinctiveness: high, continuous, and independent variation of nonadaptive taxonomic characters. The inventory of Aguaruna cultivars exhibits 2 additional characteristics predicted by the model: taxonomic characters of this local inventory vary as independently and nearly as greatly as those of the species as a whole. Anthropological evidence is presented to demonstrate that Aguaruna interact with the plants as predicted by the model: Aguaruna identify cultivars using many of the same characters as Rogers and Fleming and they confuse cultivars they regard as similar in stem color, petiole color, and leaf shape. The evidence suggests that procedures used by cultivators to identify cultivars leave their imprint on the plants; crops show the effect of the cultivator's eye as well as hand. 
4255666| Sweet flag, Acorus calamus, one of the few extratropical members of the Araceae, is a semi-aquatic component of aquatic habitats throughout the temperate to sub-temperate regions of Eurasia and the Americas. The plant has a rich ethnobotanical history dating back possibly to the time of Moses in the Old Testament of the Bible and in early Greek and Roman medicine. Sweet flag, thought to be indigenous to India and spread along trade routes, has been valued for its rhizome and fragrant oils which have been used medicinally, in alcoholic beverages, as a fragrant essence in perfumes and oils, and for insecticidal properties. Current research investigates sweet flag's value as an insecticidal, antibacterial and antifungal agent. This paper is a comprehensive survey of the past, present and future uses of sweet flag. /// Calamus, Acorus calamus, l'une des rares espces non tropicales de la famille des Araceae, est une semi-aquatique composante des milieux aquatiques des rgions tempres et sub-tempres d'Euraore et des Amriques. Cette plante bnficie d'une riche histoire ethnobotanique datant de l'poque de Moise de l'ancien testament de la Bible et des medecines Romaine et Grecque. Calamus est probablement originaire de la pninsule Indienne et fut distribue par les commercants pour qui le rhizome riche en huiles aromatiques, sont utiliss en pharmacope, dans les boissons alcoolises, la parfumerie et pour ses proprits insecticides. Actuellement, des recherches sont entreprises pour valuer les propriets insecticiden, bactricide et fongicide de cette espce. La prsente tude fait une synthese des usages et des potentialits de cette espce (calamus). 
41001198|In the present manuscript, consensus analysis was applied to make an intracultural and intercultural comparison of medicinal plant knowledge in two groups of traditional healers from the Andes and Amazon regions in Bolivia, respectively. The ethnobotanical research methodology included field trips for plant collection in the presence of a healer and semistructured interviews, with dried and pressed plant specimens as a probe to ask questions about these plants' medicinal uses (180 and 126 species in the Andes and Amazon, respectively). Plant use data were analyzed through calculation of the number of species known medicinally, an ethnobotanical index of consensus, and cluster analysis. The results point to a dual link between medicinal plant knowledge and consensus, which is positive at the group (cultural) level but negative at the level of the individual participant. As a group, Andean healers (N=8) reported more medicinal plant uses and also agreed more often about these uses than their Amazonian peers (N=7). However, an intracultural comparison shows that an individual healer who holds more plant knowledge often agrees less with other healers about the medicinal uses of these plants, and hence possesses a higher degree of idiosyncratic knowledge. These results demonstrate the challenge to extrapolate knowledge of individual participants to a community or even a cultural group. The careful selection of participants merits considerable attention before the start of fieldwork since interviewing the most knowledgeable healer in a community does not automatically imply that representative (general and commonly-shared) cultural information about medicinal plants will be recorded. En el presente manuscrito, se aplic un anlisis de consenso para hacer una comparacin intracultural e intercultural en relacin al conocimiento sobre plantas medicinales en dos grupos de mdicos tradicionales, inhabitantes de la regin Andina y Amaznica de Bolivia, respectivamente. La metodologa de investigacin etnobotnica incluy salidas al campo guiado por un mdico tradicional para la colecta de plantas, y entrevistas semi-estructuradas con plantas secas y prensadas como soporte para hacer preguntas sobre los usos medicinales de estas especies (180 y 126 especies en la zona Andina y Amaznica, respectivamente). Datos sobre los usos de las plantas fueron analizados calculando el nmero de especies conocidas como medicina, un ndice etnobotnico de consenso, y un anlisis de cluster. Los resultados demuestran una doble relacin entre el conocimiento sobre plantas medicinales y el consenso, lo cual es positiva al nivel del grupo (cultura), pero negativa al nivel del individuo (participante). Como grupo, los mdicos tradicionales de la region Andina (N=8) reportaron ms usos medicinales para las plantas y tambin concordaron ms frecuentemente sobre estos usos en comparacin con los mdicos tradicionales de la regin Amaznica (N=7). Sin embargo, una comparacin intracultural demuestra que un mdico tradicional que tiene ms conocimiento sobre plantas medicinales muchas veces est menos de acuerdo con los dems mdicos tradicionales sobre los usos medicinales que se dan a estas plantas, y entonces posee un nivel ms alto de conocimiento idiosincrtico. Estos resultados demuestran el desafo para extrapolar conocimiento que pertenece a un individuo haca una comunidad o cultura. Por lo tanto, la seleccin cautelosa de participantes merece mucha atencin antes del comienzo del trabajo de campo porque entrevistando al mdico tradicional ms conocido en una comunidad no implica automaticamente la recopilacin de informacin representativa de la comunidad o cultura (informacin ampliamente compartida dentro de la comunidad y de carcter general).
4256704| The leaves and bark of fifteen species of Mexican Anacardiaceae were analyzed by paper and thin layer chromatography for the presence of toxic phenols such as catechols, resorcinols and biflavonoids. Based on the results of this and previous studies, toxic phenols are present in fifty-two species belonging to twenty-seven genera in Anacardiaceae. The majority of species contain toxic catechols, a few species contain toxic resorcinols and sixteen species contain biflavonoids. Genera from the basal group in Anacardiaceae, including Spondias and allied genera lack biflavonoids. Biflavonoids are present in the rest of the genera of Anacardiaceae. /// En este trabajo se analizaron corteza y hojas de quince especies de Anacardiaceae distribudas en Mxico. El anlisis se llev a cabo por cromatografa de papel y de capa delgada para determinar la presencia de fenoles txicos tales como catecoles, resorcinoles y biflavonoides. Con base en los resultados de este trabajo y de literatura previa, se ha detectado la presencia de fenoles txicos en cincuenta y dos especies de veintisiete gneros en Anacardiaceae. La mayora de las especies contienen catecoles txicos, unas cuantas contienen resorcinoles txicos y deciseis contienen biflavonoides. Los gneros del grupo basal de Anacardiaceae, que incluye a Spondias y gneros afines carecen de biflavonoides. Los biflavonoides estn presentes en el resto de los gneros de Anacardiaceae. 
4287779|The amount of natural crossing in cotton fields is of significance in current breeding methodology and in the development of new methods which attempt to make use of hybrid vigor. It is suggested that more critical methods of estimating the amount of natural crossing than those presently employed would be desirable. The possible advantages of obtaining estimates from segregating populations, rather than mechanical mixtures of contrasted stocks, are outlined briefly. The most generally important factor in natural crossing is the size of the effective bee population. A rapid method of measuring the relative activity of bees, involving distribution of finely powdered dye particles during flower visitation, and applicable in any field of cotton, is presented.
4255043|Wild Vigna radiata var. sublobata populations, inhabiting the mountains of India, and two cultigens, V. mungo and V. radiata, were examined for seed-protein content and amino acid composition. The protein content in the populations varied from 15.2 to 21%. Lysine, valine, isoleucine, leucine, phenylalanine, and tyrosine contents were invariably higher in wild populations as compared with the FAO reference pattern. The variation encountered in wild populations is largely genetic in origin. Total essential amino acids in the wild populations varied from 38.3 to 42.2; in the cultigens, from 29.2 to 37.5 (g/100 g protein). There was marked variation in the amino acid composition of the populations for the two different ecozones studied, suggesting a broad genetic base.
4255480| We present results of applying a simple technique to statistically test several hypotheses in ethnobotany, using plant use data from non-indigenous people in southeast Peru. Hypotheses tested concern: (1) the power of eight different variables as predictors of a plant's use value; (2) comparisons of ethnobotanical knowledge among informants; and (3) the relationship between informant age and knowledge of plant uses. Each class of hypothesis is evaluated with respect to all uses, and classes (1) and (3) are evaluated for each of the following subsidiary use categories: construction, edible, commerce, medicine, and technology. We found that the family to which a plant belongs explains a large part of the variance in species' use values. Each of the other factors analyzed (growth-form, density, frequency, mean and maximum diameter, mean and maximum growth rate) is also significantly predictive of use values. Age significantly predicts informant knowledge of (1) all uses, and (2) of medicinal uses. Plant medicinal lore is particularly vulnerable to acculturation. /// Presentamos los resultados de la aplicacin de una simple tcnica cuantitativa, descrita anteriormente, para probar estadsticamente algunas hiptesis etnobotnicas. Usamos datos de los usos de plantas por los mestizos del Sur-Este del Per. Las hiptesis que nos conciernen estn relacionadas con: (1) el poder de ocho factores diferentes para pronosticar la utilidad de plantas; (2) el nivel del conocimiento etnobotnico entre informantes; y (3) la influencia de la edad del informante para pronosticar la varianza en el conocimiento de usos de plantas. Se evalua cada hiptesis con respecto a todos los usos, y se evalua las hiptesis (1) y (3) para cada una de la categorias de uso: construccin, comestibles, comerciales, medicinales, y tecnolgicos. Concluimos que la familia a la cual pertenece una planta afecta el valor de su utilidad, y explica en parte la varianza de los valores de utilidad. Cada uno de los otros factores analizados (forma de crecimiento, densidad, frecuencia, dimetro promedio y mximo, tasa de crecimiento promedio y mximo) tambin pronostican significativamente los valores de utilidad. La edad es un buen pronosticador del conocimiento de todos usos, y de usos medicinales. Sin embargo, informantes de edades similares pueden tener niveles de conocimiento muy diferentes. El conocimiento de plantas medicinales es ms suceptible a la aculturaccin que el conocimiento de las otras categorias de uso. 
4254323|The design and management of tropical forests, as sources of nontimber products, is a major economic issue for tropical nations. The exploitation of leaves of the tendu tree, Diospyros melanoxylon Roxb. (Ebenaceae), in the Madhya Pradesh Province of India, for wrappers of bidi cigarettes, is a good example of such a system. It is shown that a whole culture depends upon the harvests of these leaves as a source of income as the demand for bidis is very high. Yet revenues generated by the industry do not filter back in any appreciable amounts to the tribes harvesting the tendu leaves, nor is there an effort to manage the tendu forests as a continuous resource. Because the forest is a resource for other products beyond tendu leaves, the absence of sound forest conservation and protection programs means the almost certain destruction of the ecosystem. The development of an effective forest management program and the improvement of the economic state of Madhya Pradesh Province must be undertaken if India is to continue to develop itself in terms of replenishable natural resources.
4288022|The expansion in agricultural production is inevitable if India is to meet the food requirements of its increasing population. Today's utilization and consumption of the major economic crops, endeavors to improve these, and future needs are discussed.
4287821|This industry is founded primarily on eucalyptus oils from several species. The more important minor endemic oils are those of Australian sandalwood and of two or three genera known as "tea-trees". Various factors have prevented exploitation of other potentially valuable native oils. Among exotic oils, only that of lavender has been commercially produced.
4255802| There is an increasing concern over the loss of germplasm diversity in areas of crop domestication. Nevertheless in these areas many farmers continue to maintain a pool of varieties, many of them landraces, despite the fact that they have also incorporated improved varieties, and that some landraces have been eliminated. This paper provides a framework for analyzing the decision of a farmer to maintain, incorporate or discard a variety from his/her repertoire of varieties of one crop. It is based on an analysis of the roles that crop infraspecific diversity can play in a farmer's well-being, how these roles change, the limits to these changes, and some predictions and suggestions derived from this framework. /// Existe una gran preocupacin por la prdida de diversidad de germoplasma en las reas de domesticacin de los cultivos. Sin embargo muchos agricultores en estas reas continan sembrando y mantiendo un acervo de distintas variedades, muchas de ellas criollas, an cuando han incorporado a ste variedades mejoradas, y a pesar de que algunas variedades criollas ya no se utilizan. Este artculo presenta un marco de referencia para analizar la decisin por parte de un agricultor de mantener, incorporar o eliminar una variedad del acervo que de stas se conserva. Se basa en un anlisis de los papeles que la diversidad infraespecfica puede jugar en el bienestar de un agricultor, cmo estos papeles cambian, as como los lmites a estos cambios. Tambin presenta algunas predicciones y sugerencias derivadas de este marco de referencia. 
4254738|Seasonal growth characteristics and biomass yield potential of 4 small-leaf, floating, aquatic macrophytes cultured in nutrient nonlimiting conditions were evaluated for central Florida's climatic conditions. Biomass yields were found to be 10.6, 11.3, 16.1, and 32.1 t (dry wt)
4251998|Peanuts have been grown in at least 38 States, have been of commercial importance in 12 of them, and in 1945 were cultivated on more than four million acres in the United States and on about 25 million acres throughout the world.
4253161|The Blackfoot Indians occupied the northwestern plains along and adjacent to the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains in present-day southern Alberta, Canada, and western Montana, U. S. A. Climate and topography and, hence, vegetation of the region are diverse. Although primarily meat-eaters, the Blackfoot consumed some vegetable foods. They had a knowledge of plant medicines, which they used in the treatment of both humans and horses. Plants were used for other purposes including the production of dyes and perfumes, the manufacture of weapons, and as construction materials. The Blackfoot Indians utilized 185 species belonging to 140 genera of plants distributed among 57 families.
4251973|None of the species of the genus Scirpus-including clubrushes, bulrushes, tules and woolgrasses-is of great economic importance, but in the aggregate its members fill many needs in the fields of conservation, wildlife and food supply, as well as isolated needs in the fields of basketry, transportation and horticulture.
4253961|Out of 158 weed species collected from rice fields of Hooghly and Midnapore districts of West Bengal, 124 possess economic importance in one way or other. The various uses of these weeds may aid dealers in crude drugs, manufacturers of plant products, or persons interested in the beneficial aspects of plants.
4287811|The condiment name "oregano" should be understood to refer, not to any one species but to a particular spice flavor, furnished by plants of several genera in different parts of the world. About one-half of the amount used in the United States comes chiefly from Mexico as dried leaves and flowers of Lippia graveolens; the rest from several species of Origanum in several European countries.
4251894| United States annual production of this formerly very important bast fiber has fallen from about 75,000 tons a century ago to about 2,000 tons today. Imports, too, have dropped. Other fibers, particularly abac, have replaced it more and more. 
4252835|Tree species vary in properties because of the chemical nature of their respective extractive components. Extractives play an important role in ever increasing silvichemical industries. Numerous industrial extractive chemicals derived from wood and bark are discussed here.
4256360| Podophyllum peltatum, was reexamined for its potential use in the commercial production of podophyllotoxin, a lignan used in the semisynthesis of important anticancer drugs. A survey of the natural population of the American mayapple, Podophyllum peltatum, was conducted in order to identify high-yielding genotypes. Plants were collected from the eastern and central United States. The lignan content of leaf blades and rhizome material of the collected specimens was characterized by aqueous extraction followed by HPLC analysis. Podophyllotoxin and -peltatin appeared most prominently among the lignans obtained. Leaf blades were generally richer in podophyllotoxin than rhizomes. Several high-yielding accessions were identified, the blades of which contained 4.0-5.6% podophyllotoxin. A negative correlation was observed between podophyllotoxin and peltatin content in the blades. The combination of high biosynthetic capacity and preferential accumulation of podophyllotoxin in leaves of mayapple makes this plant an excellent candidate for agricultural production of podophyllotoxin. /// O potencial de utilizao do Podophyllum peltatum foi rexaminado para a produo comercial de podofilotoxina, um composto usado na semi-sntese de importantes drogas anticancergenas. Um levantamento da populao norte-americana da mayapple, Podophyllum peltatum, foi conduzido com a finalidade de identificar gentipos de alta produtividade. As coletas foram feitas no centroeste dos Estados Unidos e o contedo de lignanas do limbo foliar e dos rizomas foi caracterizado por extrao aquosa seguida da anlise por HPLC. Podofilotoxina e  peltatin apareceram mais proemintes do que as demais lignanas. Geralmente, o limbo foliar apresentou um contedo de podofilotoxina mais rico do que os rizomas. Muitas accesses com alta produtividade foram identificadas e cujo o contedo de podophyllotoxina no limbo foliar variou entre 4.0-5.6%. Observou-se ainda uma correlao negativa entre a podofilotoxina e o contedo de peltatin no limbo foliar. Nas folhas, a combinao entre a capacidade biosinttica e o acmulo preferencial da podofilotoxina, faz com que essa espcie seja considerada uma excelente candidata para a produo agrcola desta lignana. 
4255636| Mandrake (Mandragora officinarum), nearly forgotten today, is one of the most famous plants known to humanity. For thousands of years, this plant was revered by many cultures, which ascribed to it mysterious and demonic qualities. Mandrake is mentioned in the Bible (Gen. 30:14-16) and its Biblical use is generally attributed to its supposed fertility power. A detailed study of Pentateuch text and the various commentaries allowed us to re-evaluate the role of mandrake in Biblical events. Sufficient evidence was found to conclude that the appearance of this plant on the Biblical scene is not due, as was commonly believed, to alleged magic power of its root, but to the unique fragrance furnished by the fruits of mandrake. It seems that the Scripture clearly connects the fragrance of mandrake with sexuality, which is the only known account of direct link between odor and human sexual response. Fifty-five principle odoriferous constituents were identified in rather bizarre chemical composition of mandrake aroma. It will be of assistance for a suggested scientific study of potential aphrodisiac effect of mandrake fragrance. /// mu m  , Mandragora officinarum L., m u u u uum mu um m.   m u m mmuu nu n mu mu, um  num  u    mum u m. um umm, m nuu   u mu 30:14-16 m nunu   mu nm nummm m. um u mm muu u uu u u  mm nuu m   uum muu    uu mu.   mm nm mm m nu   u  m  "muuu" mu  ,  u n, nuu  n. mm  m ummm  m, m  nuu nm m m   mmu. m m um  um u n uu n  n u.   m uu m m uu n , m nm  n, umuuu nmm nm nm. m mmm m m uno    uuu   m m . 
40686782|This study explores the contribution of anthropogenic landscapes in providing useful botanical resources to a Caatinga community in Pernambuco, Brazil. Ethnobotanical data were collected through semi-structured interviews using the checklistinterview method and by means of a "field herbarium" of the most abundant species in the anthropogenic zones. We recorded 119 species distributed in 36 families, of which 79 were found to be useful. Forage was the most prominent use category, containing 84% of the citations, followed by medicinals (36.70%), foods (10.12%), and wood (8.86%). Herbaceous species predominated (63.29%), followed by shrubs (3.79%), sub-shrubs (21.51%), trees (8.86%), and creepers (2.53%). Trees exhibited a greater number of uses than other life-forms (p< 0.05). Significant differences in richness were found, with the highest richness of species 0(2= 60.28, p< 0.05), genera (x2= 49.03, p< 0.05), and families (x2= 20.16, p< 0.05) appearing in the rainy season. We concluded that fodder use was the most important category in our anthropogenic research areas, accounting for a higher number of species, genera, and families. The next most important categories were medicinal, timber, and food plants, respectively.
4256204| The bark of the tree Quillaja saponaria, indigenous to Chile, is one of the major sources of industrially used triterpenoid saponins. For decades quillaja extracts have been used as foaming agents in beverages, emulsifiers in foods, wetting agent in photography, etc. Overexploitation of the bark has caused important ecological damage and a shortage of this resource. However, this can still be remedied by using whole quillaja wood (and not just the bark), for the production of saponins. This raw material can be obtained in large quantities from pruning operations, reducing the need to fell trees. This review covers ecological aspects of quillaja exploitation, as well as a discussion of its novel industrial applications. /// La corteza del rbol Quillaja saponaria, originario de Chile, es una de las principales fuentes industriales de saponinas triterpnicas. Durante dcadas los extractos de quillay han sido usados como espumante en bebidas, emulsificante en alimentos, agente humectante en fotografa, etc. La sobre explotacin de la corteza ha causado un importante dao ecolgico y escasez de este recurso. Esto an puede ser remediado usando en forma integral toda la biomasa del rbol y no slo la corteza. Esta materia prima es abundante, y se obtiene del raleo de los bosques existentes, sin necesidad de cortar rboles. Este trabajo cubre aspectos ecolgicos de la explotacin del quillay, y novedosos usos industriales de sus saponinas. 
4255131| What is probably the world's largest neem (Azadirachta indica) plantation is on 10 sq km in the Plains of Arafat, Saudi Arabia, where 50,000 trees have been planted recently. The project, designed to provide shade to the ca. 2 million Muslim pilgrims who camp there annually for "Haj" rites, has economic potential. Pest-control materials, soap, toothpaste, and pharmaceutical products are among items that could be produced for home consumption and export. Introduced into the country more than 40 yr ago, the tree has acclimated itself remarkably well to the local hot and arid conditions. /// La Culture du Neem (Azadirachta indica, Meliaceae) en Arabie Seoudite. La plus grande plantation de neem (Azadirachta indica) entourne dix kilometres carrs dans les Plaines d'Arafat, Arabie Soudite, o 50.000 arbres ont ts plants rcemment. Le projet, cr pour fournir ombrage aux 2 millions de plerins musulmans qui y campent annuellement pour les rites de "haj," a potentiel conomique. Les articles que l'on pourra produire pour consommation domestique et exportation incluent les matriels pour rgler des pestes, le savon, le dentifrice, et les produits pharmaceutiques. Introduit au pays il y a plus que 40 ans, l'arbre s'est adapt remarquablement bien a la chaleur locale et aux conditions arides. 
4252024|About eight billion bushels of potatoes are produced annually throughout the world, 400 million of them in the United States. In the United States and England they are used principally for human consumption; in other European countries as livestock food and as raw material for the manufacture of starch, alcohol and other by-products.
4252865|The cadushi is the more useful of the two columnar cacti which dominate the landscape throughout the island of Curacao. Its fluted stems furnish a staple foodstuff; when dry serve for torches, fuel and fences. Thick trunks of old specimens are useful in carpentry.
4255462|China, as one of the ancient centers for diversity of domesticated plants, has a rich germplasm resource in vegetable and fruit crops. The Cucurbitaceae is one of the three most important families in that country as sources of vegetables. In a continuing effort to inform the West on Chinese uses of the Cucurbitaceae, we update a 1989 description of cucurbits in China with the inclusion of information from untranslated Chinese literature and further field observations. Included are 63 species valued as fruits, vegetables, and/or medicinal herbs. Each of these species is discussed in the context of its usages in China. We summarize the economic role of cultivated cucurbits in present day China. Finally, the infraspecific variation within the economically important domesticated cucurbits (Citrullus lanatus, Cucumis melo, Cucumis sativus, Cucurbita spp., Lagenaria siceraria, Luffa spp., and Momordica charantia) is discussed. / [Abstract in Chinese]
4256736| The circumstances concerning the diffusion of the main cultivated citrus from their places of origin in Asia are studied here, showing that the citron (Citrus medica L.) was the only one knew in Ancient times in Europe, while the lemon (C. limon [L.] Osbeck), lime (C. aurantiifolia [Christm.] Swingle), pomelo (C. maxima [Burm.] Merr.) and sour orange (C.  aurantium L.) were introduced to Europe by the Muslims via the Iberian Peninsula and Sicily, and that the grapefruit (C. paradisi Macfad.), mandarin (C. reticulata Blanco) and sweet orange (C.  aurantium L.) arrived to the West between the fifteenth and nineteenth centuries as a result of the trade with the British and Portuguese colonies. /// Se estudian aqu las circunstancias referentes a la difusin de los principales ctricos cultivados desde sus lugares de origen en Asia, mostrando que en la antigedad nicamente se conoca en Europa el cidro (Citrus medica L.), que el limn (C. limon [L.] Osbeck), la lima (C. aurantiifolia [Christm.] Swingle), la zamboa (C. maxima [Burm.] Merr.) y la naranja amarga (C.  aurantium L.) fueron introducidos en Europa por los musulmanes a travs de la Pennsula Ibrica y Sicilia, y que el pomelo (C. paradisi Macfad.), la mandarina (C. reticulata Blanco) y la naranja dulce (C.  aurantium L.) llegaron a Occidente entre los siglos XV y XIX como resultado del comercio con las colonias britnicas y portuguesas. 
4255442| Sphenostylis, a genus of seven species in tropical and southern Africa, includes three taxa that are used by humans. Flowers and seeds of S. schweinfurthii Harms are occasionally eaten in West Africa, and this species has potential value as a forage crop. Flowers and seeds of Sphenostylis erecta (E. G. Baker) E. G. Baker subsp. erecta are eaten in parts of Central Africa, while the roots are used medicinally and as a source of dye and fish poison. The edible tubers of S. stenocarpa (Hochst. ex A. Rich.) Harms, the African yam bean, are collected from the wild in Central and East Africa. This species is cultivated for its edible seeds in west tropical Africa and for its edible tubers in Zaire. Cultivated races of S. stenocarpa may be considered domesticated forms, since they differ from wild plants of the species in a number of morphological characteristics that are evidently the result of human selection. A list of common names for the three taxa, from throughout their ranges, is presented. /// Sphenostylis, un gnero con siete especies de las regiones sur y tropical de Africa, incluye tres taxa utilizados por humanos. Las flores y semillas de S. schweinfurthii Harms son alimento ocasional en el oeste de Africa, y la especie tiene, ademas, valor potencial como forraje. Las flores y semillas de Sphenostylis erecta (E. G. Baker) E. G. Baker subsp. erecta se comen en regiones del centro de Africa, mientras que las races tienen usos medicinales y son fuente de colorantes y embarbascantes. Los tubrculos comestibles de S. stenocarpa (Hochst. ex A. Rich.) Harms, la jcama Africana, se colectan de plantas silvestres en el centro y este de Africa. Esta especie se cultiva por sus semillas comestibles en el oeste de Africa tropical, y por sus tubrculos comestibles en Zaire. Las razas cultivadas de S. stenocarpa pueden ser consideradas como formas domesticadas, puesto que difieren de las plantas silvestres en muchas caractersticas morfolgicas que son, evidentemente, el resultado de la seleccin humana. Se presenta una lista de los nombres comunes para los tres taxa a lo largo de sus rangos de distribucin. 
4257060|This paper reports a study of paddy vegetation in central Laos. Plants were inventoried and vegetation types classified. Relationships between vegetation and agricultural practices were identified. A total of 184 wild herbaceous species and 17 cultivated species were recorded in two villages. Of the wild species, 19 were used by local people, four were rare species, and three were major weeds. Paddy vegetation was arranged in order of water regime from shorter to longer hydroperiod by DCA. The factors contributing to high species diversity were: (1) the presence of species unique to different paddy types; (2) the presence of remnant species from original vegetation; and (3) the impact of agricultural practices. Thus, at this study site, multiple plant species coexisted in paddy fields under various agricultural practices, and some species were essential sources of food or were used in other ways to support the subsistence livelihoods of local residents.
4255518|Investigations of the effects of extraction of non-timber forest products have concentrated on Latin American forests, yet South Asian forests may provide new insights into this problem. The following five papers address issues relating to extraction of non-timber forest products in South Asia. These papers include an economic valuation of deciduous forests in India, case studies of use of forest products by rural people in India and Sri Lanka, and a description of long-term research program for multiple-use forestry in Sri Lanka. This series of papers complements recent case studies from Latin America (e.g., Nepstad and Schwartzman 1992).
4254004|Water hyacinth growth rates were monitored from May through October in two sewage lagoons with different nutrient loading rates. The lagoon receiving the heaviest load sustained the highest average growth rates throughout the summer. The lightly loaded lagoon averaged a 29% increase in weight per week over the six month period with the highest growth rate occuring during June with an average weekly weight gain of 71%. The heavily loaded lagoon sustained an average growth rate of 46% per week for the same six month period with the highest measured growth rate of 73% increase in weight per week also occuring in June. In addition, the performance of three harvesters was evaluated. One harvester, consisting of a chopper and conveyor, was capable of picking up and chopping approximately 2.3 t of plants per hour and delivering them to a waiting truck. The second harvester was a single 1.52 m (5 ft) wide conveyor, and the third one was a modified clamshell bucket attached to a dragline. The average harvesting rate of each of these harvesters was approximately 9.3 t of water hyacinths per hour.
27807215|The genus Aloe L. (Asphodelaceae) comprises 548 accepted species, of which at least one-third are documented as having some utilitarian value. The group is of conservation concern due to habitat loss and being extensively collected from the wild for horticulture and natural products. Cultural value is increasingly important in the effective conservation of biodiversity. The present study evaluated the biocultural value of the known uses of Aloe, excluding the domesticated and commercially cultivated A. vera. Over 1,400 use records representing 173 species were collated from the literature and through personal observation; this paper presents a synopsis of uses in each of 11 use categories. Medicinal uses of Aloe were described by 74% of the use records, followed by social and environmental uses (both 5%). Species yielding natural products, notably A. ferox and A. perryi, were most frequently cited in the literature. Consensus ratios indicate that the most valued uses of Aloe are in medicine and pest control against arthropods and other invertebrates.
4254506|Thymelaea hirsuta (mitnan) has been used since 1979 as a new fiber source for handmade paper in Beer Sheva, Israel. It was chosen because it is a member of the Thymelaeaceae, which provides bast fiber for hand papermaking in the Orient. The word mitnan appears in ancient sources as a synonym for rope. Current but fast-disappearing uses of mitnan by the Bedouin of this region include ropemaking as well as medicinal, husbandry and domestic applications. Contemporary use of mitnan bast fiber by the authors involves processing the inner bark to obtain a pulp from which sheets of paper are formed.
4254251|Fractions of leaf extracts from 2 local types, labeled Aloe vera (subsequently identified as Aloe barbadensis Mill. and A. saponaria Haw.), were prepared by differential centrifugation and tested by in vitro assays for the presence of lectin-like activities and for effects on the attachment and growth of human normal and tumor cells. Fractions of extracts of fresh leaves and commercially "stabilized" Aloe vera gel had high levels of lectin-like substances measured by immunodiffusion and hemagglutination assays. Substances in fluid fractions from both fresh leaf sources were found to markedly promote attachment and growth of human normal, but not tumor, cells and to enhance healing of wounded cell monolayers. In contrast, fractions of "stabilized" Aloe vera gel were equally cytotoxic for human normal and tumor cells in vitro. Results from cell assays suggested that the observed growth promotion and wound healing effects of aloe substances in vitro may be analogous to what has been observed in vivo during healing of wounds and burns.
4252363|Miso is a fermented food widely consumed in the Orient and is prepared from mold rice, soybeans and salt. About 13 million bushels of soybeans are made into miso each year, the annual production amounting to 974,000 metric tons.
4252071|This member of the vitamin-B complex is necessary in human diet to prevent soreness of mouth, lips and nose, and inflammation of the cornea. It is commercially produced from the fungi Ashbya gossypii and Eremothecium ashbyii, and is used to enrich various foods and animal feedstuffs.
4254705| An expedition to Ghana was undertaken during August 1981 to collect mainly the early-maturing pearl millet, Pennisetum americanum. The collection team travelled extensively in most of the pearl millet-growing areas of the eastern and northern provinces of Ghana. The mission was planned to coincide with harvesting so that early-maturing landraces could be obtained from farmers' fields. Seed samples of late-maturing pearl millet were also obtained from local markets. Early-maturing pearl millet is traditionally intercropped with groundnut (Arachis hypogaea), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) or late-maturing pearl millet. Pearl millet grain is used in several traditional food preparations: thick porridge called t, a thin, fermented porridge called koko, and a deep-fried pancake called marsa. Landrace populations grown by the farmers were mixtures of several types. The material collected varied considerably for shapes, sizes and colors of spikes and grains. Of the 284 samples collected, 227 were grown in a uniform nursery at Patancheru: they flowered in 39-140 days, grew 120-315 cm tall, spikes were short (6-53 cm) and conical, grains were large, globular and gray with starchy endosperm. The samples belong to race globosum and serve as a good source of genes for earliness and large-grain size. 
4254580|Huckleberry plants evaluated at 13 sites in the southern Cascade Mountains of Washington State during August 1980 showed significantly lower fruit yields where subjected to heavy ash deposition following the 18 May 1980 eruption of Mt. St. Helens. High insect pollinator mortality is suspected as the major causal factor. The impact of such effects of volcanic activity on Native American subsistence is discussed.
4254529|This paper documents the history of the introduction of the soybean (Glycine max), a domesticate of China, to North America. Henry Yonge, the Surveyor-General of Georgia, planted soybeans on his farm at the request of Samuel Bowen in 1765. Mr. Bowen, a former seaman employed by the East India Company, brought soybeans to Savannah, Georgia, from China via London. From 1766, Mr. Bowen planted soybeans on his plantation "Greenwich" located at Thunderbolt, Georgia. The soybeans were used to manufacture soy sauce and vermicelli (soybean noodles). In addition, he manufactured a sago powder substitute made from sweet potatoes. The 3 products were then exported to England. Samuel Bowen received a patent for his manufacturing inventions for producing these products. Another early introduction of soybeans to North America was by Benjamin Franklin. In 1770 he sent seeds from London to John Bartram in Philadelphia.
4255191| Meghalaya, one of the seven states of northeastern India, is inhabited by three distinct tribes, viz., Khasi, Garo, and Jaintia, each occupying respective districts. These tribes live in remote places and depend mostly on surrounding plant resources for their food, shelter, fodder, medicare, and other cultural purposes. Local hill agricultural practice-"slash-and-burn"-and encroaching civilization are responsible for diminishing the local uses of the plants. Hence, it was felt worthwhile to record the native uses of these weeds before the information is buried. The present paper deals with the ethnobotany of 65 taxa belonging to 26 families of angiosperms. A generic index is included. /// Meghalaya gehrt zu eine der sieben Nordostern Lnder von Indien. Es ist von drei abgesondert Volksstammen, namentlich, Khasi, Garo und Jaintia besetz worden. Jede Volksstamm lebt in ihre eignen Bizirke. Diese Volksstamme leben in weit abgelegenen Rumen und meistens benutzen fr ihre Ernhrung, obdach, Tierfutter, Medicamente und andere Kulturzwecke, die Pflanzen in die Umgebung als Auskunftsmittel. Ortliche Bergland landwirtschaftliche Praxis lautet: "Zerhacken und Verbrennen." Die eingriffende Zivilization ist verantwortlich fr die verminderte ortliche Benutzung der Pflanzen. Deshalb wir sind der Meingung da es wre nutzlich wenn mann aufzeichnet die einheimische Verwendung von verschiedenen Unkrauten befor die Information begraben ist. Die vorliegende Arbeit behandelt die Ethnobotanik von 65 Taxa, die zu 26 Familien von Angiospermen angehren. Ein generic Verzeichnis ist auch dabei eingeschlossen. 
4287970|The chironja, an apparent natural cross of grapefruit and orange, combines the flavors and other highly desirable characteristics of both parents, offering vast new possibilities for development, both for fresh market and industrial purposes.
4255422| Nuas (Phaseolus vulgaris, Fabaceae), commonly called popping beans, are traditionally grown in the Andean highlands of South America, and are consumed as a snack food after a quick toasting process. Proximate analysis of their nutritive value revealed that nuas have a higher content of starch, amylose, and copper than four dry bean varieties and a lower mean content of protein, phosphorous, iron, and boron. The unique texture and taste of nuas may be related to their high starch content. Antinutritional factors such as lectins were higher in raw and boiled nua samples than in toasted nuas, while tannin levels did not change from raw to toasted treatments. Overall in-vitro digestibility was slightly lower for toasted nuas than boiled dry bean. /// Las nuas (Phaseolus vulgaris, Fabaceae) o frijol reventn se siembran tradicionalmente en las zonas montaosas de los Andes y se consumen como refrigerio despus de un proceso rpido de tostacin. El anlisis proximal nutritivo muestra que el contenido de almidn, amilosa y cobre es mayor en las nuas que en cuatro variedades de frijol seco y el contenido de protena, fsforo, hierro y boro, es menor. La textura y el sabor nico de nuas pueden ser relacionado a su alto nivel de almidn. Factores antinutricionales tales como lectinas fueron mas altos en nuas crudas y hervidas que en nuas tostadas, pero los niveles de taninos no cambiaron de crudo a tostado en los tratamientos. Sobre todo, la digestabilidad fue un poco menor en nuas tostadas que en frijol hervido. 
4253429|A single accession of Crepis alpina, P.I. 326551 from Turkey, showed good agronomic potential for crop development. The seed oil contains more than 70 percent crepenynic acid. Seed retention and plant habit are excellent. Seed yields ranged from 117 to 1,800 kg/ha. Spring and fall plantings were successful at several locations. Fall plantings may be preferred because of earlier maturity. Since early seedling development is slow, weed competition may be severe. Direct combining should be feasible, but threshing problems might arise because of the small, long-beaked seed. Improvements in yield and other agronomic characteristics should be possible through breeding. More germ plasm would provide a broader base of plant variability.
4251896|A certain mold-forming fungus, otherwise little known, has been found to be of economic importance by virtue of its peculiar ability to grow in the generally sterile and toxic sponge material used to purify illuminating gas.
4287767|This delicious tropical fruit has been under cultivation for about 4,000 years and today it is grown on about two million acres in India, its original home. Nearly 1,000 cultivated varieties are known throughout the tropics of the world. The fruits are rich in vitamins A and C, and have better food value than apple.
4256876| The micromorphological features of the vegetative and reproductive structures of ten mulberry cultivars grown at the Specialized Sericultural Section of the Agricultural Zoology Experimental Institute of Padua, northeastern Italy, were examined by SEM in order to determine the charactetistics that were the most valuable taxonomically. The observed specimens (leaves, flowers, seeds, and pollen grains) showed micromorphological differences regarding leaf hairiness, quantity of waxes, quality of epidermis cuticle and tepal hairiness. The effects of differing environments in altering the floral sex ratios of this basically monoecious group of plants were also investigated. However, no significant differences between the micromorphology of the seeds and the pollen grains of these selected cultivars were detected. The authors are hopeful that the information gained in this study may prove useful in the future creation of an exhaustive and final catalogue "descriptor" of cultivated varieties belonging to the genus Morus L. /// L'aspetto micromorfologico delle structure vegetative e riproduttive di dieci cultivar di gelso, coltivate presso l'Istituto Sperimentale di Zoologia Agraria, "Sezione Specializzata per la Bachicoltura" di Padova (Italia settentrionale),  stato analizzato, per mezzo del SEM, per individuare caratteristiche utili alla distinzione delle diverse cultivar. I preparati osservati (foglie, fiori, semi e pollini) hanno mostrato differenze micromorfologiche, riguardanti la pubescenza, la quantit di cere e la qualit della cuticola epidermica, per ci che riguarda le foglie. I fiori hanno permesso di discriminare le cultivar attraverso la pubescenza dei tepali e di mostrare l'alta influenza ambientale sul fenotipo del gelso, valutando l'espressione del sesso. La micromorfologia dei semi e dei pollini  risultata molto simile in tutte le cultivar. Questa ricerca contribuir alla creazione di un catalogo "descriptor" esaustivo e definitivo delle variet coltivate, appartenenti al genere Morus L. 
4256869| Hevea brasiliensis (Willd. ex A. Juss.) Mll. Arg., whose center of diversity is the Amazon basin, is the major source of commercial rubber in the world. In the 1970s, the need for new Hevea germplasm arose from the realization that there was a gradual erosion of the genetic variability of the rubber clones in many natural rubber plantations. This erosion occurred because most of the clones in cultivation were derived from the few surviving seeds collected in 1876 by Henry Wickham. Therefore, to broaden the genetic base of the major producers of natural rubber, it became necessary to undertake an expedition to the Amazon basin to obtain materials for the 'gene pool' in these populations. This expedition, called "Germplasm 81," was organized in four stages. Initially, there was a 1976 seminar organized by the International Rubber Research and Development Board (IRRDB); then, in 1977, a Hevea workshop took place, also organized by the IRRDB. A preliminary mission by IRRDB officials to several countries in South America and the Caribbean followed in 1978. Finally, the Germplasm exercise by scientists from IRRDB countries (Cote d'Ivoire, Indonesia, Malaysia, Nigeria, and Thailand), China, and Brazil took place from January to April of 1981. A 'dummy run' to test the viability of seeds from Manaus, Brazil, was undertaken in 1979. The Germplasm collection covered three Brazilian states: Acre, Mato Grosso, and Rondnia. Collection teams traveled into the remotest parts of the Amazon rain forests looking for high-yielding and disease-resistant trees from which to collect seeds, budwood, and seedlings growing around the trees. Three teams collected a total of 64,256 seeds, 1413 meters of budwood, and 1160 seedlings. Following agreements with the Brazilian government, collected seeds were divided on a 50-50 basis between IRRDB and Brazil. Materials for Brazil were retained in Manaus, while those for the IRRDB were initially sent to Britain for phytosanitary treatment and then to Guadeloupe for further quarantine in 1982, before being sent to Asian and African reception centers. Scientists who participated in the exercise had to undergo quarantine in a temperate country for at least one week before returning to their research institutions. This quarantine was an attempt to avoid the spread of the deadly South American leaf blight (SALB) disease. This disease has prevented Brazil from becoming a major world producer of natural rubber, despite attempts made by Goodyear and Firestone Rubber Companies, as well as Henry Ford in the early 1900s. 
40686808|African rice (Oryza glaberrima Steud.) was introduced to the Americas during the slave trade years and grown by enslaved Africans for decades before mechanical milling devices facilitated the shift towards Asian rice (O. sativa L). Literature suggests that African rice is still grown in Guyana and French Guiana, but the most recent herbarium voucher dates from 1938. In this paper, evidence is presented that O. glaberrima is still grown by Saramaccan Maroons both for food and ritual uses. Saramaccan informants claim their forefathers collected their first "black rice" from a mysterious wild rice swamp and cultivated these seeds afterwards. Unmilled spikelets (grains with their husk still attached) are sold in small quantities for ancestor offerings, and even exported to the Netherlands to be used by Maroon immigrants. Little is known of the evolution of O. glaberrima, before and after domestication. Therefore, more research is needed on the different varieties of rice and other "lost crops" grown by these descendants of enslaved Africans who escaped from plantations in the 17th and 18th centuries and maintained much of their African cultural heritage in the deep rainforest. Afrikaanse of zwarte rijst (Oryza glaberrima Steud.) is door slavenschepen meegenomen naar het Amerikaanse continent, alwaar het meer dan honderd jaar lang door slaven werd verbouwd totdat de uitvinding van mechanische pelmolens de overgang naar Aziatische rijst (O. sativa L.) inluidden. In de literatuur wordt gesuggereerd dat Afrikaanse rijst nog steeds wordt gecultiveerd in de Guianas, maar het meest recente herbariumexemplaar stamt uit 1938.In dit artikel wordt het bewijs geleverd dat O. glaberrima nog steeds wordt gekweekt, zowel voor voedsel als ritueel gebruik, door Saramaccaanse Marrons, afstammelingen van slaven die in de 17 en 18 eeuw de plantages ontvluchtten. Ongepelde rijstkorrels worden in kleine hoeveelheden verkocht voor voorouderrituelen, zowel op de markt in Paramaribo als in Surinaamse winkels in Nederland. Er is weinig bekend over de evolutie van O. glaberrima voor en na domesticatie. Meer onderzoek is daarom nodig naar de verschillende rijstvariteiten en andere 'vergeten gewassen' van de Marrons, die in het diepe regenwoud van Suriname veel van hun Afrikaanse cultuur wisten te behouden.
4256961| This study focuses on the use of botanical pesticides in Cajamarca, Peru. Fieldwork was conducted in four Quechua communities located in different ecological zones. Interviews and collection of specimens yielded 64 poisonous species and 22 species considered useful because of their toxic properties. The yellow fever mosquito bioassay was applied to methanolic extracts of the latter 22 species to determine their toxicity to Aedes aegypti L. larvae. Most extracts showed weak to moderate activity, although three were found to have strong pesticidal activity. /// Durante este estudio se colect informacin sobre el pasado y presente uso de pesticidas botnicos en Cajamarca, Per. El trabajo de campo se realiz en cuatro municipalidades, localizadas en diferentes zonas ecolgicas. Las entrevistas y colecta de especimenes produjo 64 especies txicas y 22 plantas consideradas tiles dadas sus propiedades txicas. Se aplic la prueba biolgica del mosquito de la fiebre amarilla, a extractos en metanol de estas ltimas 22 especies, con el fin de determinar su toxicidad a las larvae de Aedes aegypti L. y proveer informacin preliminaria sobre la actividad insecticida de los extractos botnicos. La mayora de los extractos mostraron actividad dbil a moderada, excepto tres que mostraron fuerte actividad insecticida. 
4255485|The use of medicinal herbs in northern and central Oman (Arabia) is still common today. Plants known for their curative powers are used for a wide spectrum of diseases, from common cold and fever to paralysis and diabetes. Herbal medicines are dispensed, after "diagnosis" from a herbal healer. The detailed uses of 35 native and 21 cultivated plants and their chemical composition are given.
4256703| This article contributes a brief review of the ethnobotany and ontogeny of Heteropsis spp. (Araceae), reports the distribution and density of Heteropsis spp. in a tropical lowland rainforest in southern Venezuela, and explores the environmental variables that correlate best with the observed Heteropsis densities. Heteropsis occurred on 26% of the 4091 trees (10 cm DBH) inventoried in 67 plots (of 0.1 hectare, each). Mean Heteropsis colonization densities differed significantly between 11 local forest types and ranged from 0% (in seasonally deeply flooded forest and in semideciduous hill forest) to 74% (in sporadically flooded forest near small streams). Across forest types, Heteropsis occurred on a significantly greater number of trees between 20 and 50 cm DBH than expected for an even distribution over all size classes. Of the 90 most common potential host species in the plots, the giant herb Phenakospermum guyannense (L. C. Rich.) Endl. was the only one consistently and significantly avoided by Heteropsis, and no host species was significantly preferred across all forest types. Heteropsis densities were positively correlated with the depth of the fine root mat and the diversity of big lianas. They were negatively correlated with the concentration of exchangeable potassium, flooding depth, and the density of small lianas. We conclude that Heteropsis shows clear habitat preferences that reflect site differences in soil fertility, flooding regime and forest structure and could not be explained by the distribution of preferred or avoided host tree sizes or species. /// Se presenta un sumario de la etnobotnica y de la ontogenia del gnero Heteropsis (Araceae), se documenta la distribucin y densidad de ese gnero en un bosque tropical hmedo en el sur de Venezuela, y se exploran las variables ambientales que presentan mejor correlacin con las densidades observadas de Heteropsis. El 26% de los rboles tena hemi-epfitas del gnero Heteropsis, pero las densidades de colonizacin se diferenciaban significativamente entre los tipos de bosque y se pudo observar una variacin desde 0% (en bosque estacionalmente profundamente inundado y en bosque semideciduo en las lomas) hasta 74% (en bosques ocasionalmente inundados a lo largo de quebradas). En total, Heteropsis ocurra en nmeros significativamente ms altos de los esperados para una distribucin igual entre todos tamaos de rboles hospederos, en rboles con dimetros a la altura del pecho (DAP) entre 20 y 50 cm. De las 90 especies ms comunes en las parcelas, solamente la hierba gigante Phenakospermum guyannense (L. C. Rich.) Endl. fue consecuentemente y significativamente evitada como husped por Heteropsis y no se pudo documentar su preferencia significativa para ciertas especies hospederos en todos los tipos de bosque estudiados. La densidad de Heteropsis fue significativamente correlacionado con ciertas variables ambientales. Una correlacin positiva se present con la profundidad de la capa de races finas en el suelo y con la diversidad de especies de lianas grandes, mientras que la correlacin con la concentracin de potasio intercambiable, la profundidad de inundacin y con la densidad de lianas delgadas fue negativa. Por lo tanto, concluimos que Heteropsis demuestra una preferencia obvia por ciertos tipos de hbitat que no se puede explicar con la distribucin de especies o tamaos preferidos de rboles hospederos, sino que refleja diferencias en la fertilidad de los suelos, el rgimen de inundacin y en la estructura del bosque. 
4254404|The main economic uses of the Malvaceae in Australia are reviewed, under the categories of food, fodder, fibre, timber, poisonous and injurious plants, weeds and ornamentals. Some reference is also made to the Malvaceae of New Zealand and New Guinea. It is suggested that as supplies of raw commodities become more scarce, there will be an increasing interest in and demand on the potential of the native flora to supply certain products. An appendix of economic uses is supplied.
4254039|It can be demonstrated that the Indigo of Commerce in Colonial North America consisted of three species in the genus Indigofera. One of these was a native plant, I. caroliniana Mill. while the other two were introduced. Indigofera tinctoria L. (French Indigo), an Old World species, and I. suffruticosa Mill. (Guatemala Indigo), a New World species, were both introduced into South Carolina in the late 17th and early 18th centuries. Their cultivation flourished until the American Revolution. Neither of the introduced species has become naturalized in the Carolinas.
41242890|The Brazil nut, Bertholletia excelsa, is a colossal tree of terra firme forest whose seeds represent the most important non-timber forest product in Amazonia. Its peculiarly inefficient dispersal strategy and discontinuous distribution have led some to hypothesize anthropogenic origins, but evidence to date has been inconclusive. Here we present results of a multidisciplinary study addressing this question. A review of the geographic distribution of B. excelsa and comparison with that of similar Lecythis species suggest a number of anomalies that are consistent with a recent and wide colonization of Bertholletia. Published studies and field observations indicate that anthropogenic disturbance facilitates Brazil nut regeneration. Recent genetic studies showing no sequence diversity and no geographical structuring of within-population variability support a rapid and recent irradiation from an ancestral population. Historical linguistic analysis of indigenous terms for Brazil nut suggests a northern/eastern Amazonian origin for Bertholletia, with a concomitant spread of Brazil nut distribution or cultivation to the south and west. Such an expansion would have been particularly facilitated by the emergence of intensive bitter manioc cultivation and networks of interethnic trade beginning in the first millennium C. E. Together, ecological, phytogeographic, genetic, linguistic, and archeological data reinforce the hypothesis that ancient Amazonian peoples played a role in establishing this emblematic and economically important rainforest landscape. A castanha-do-Brasil, Bertholletia excelsa,  uma arvore enorme da terra firme cujas sementes representam o produto florestal no-madeireira mais importante da Amaznia. Alguns pesquisadores, observando sua estratgia ineficiente de disperso e sua distribuio descontnua, propuseram a hiptese de que suas origens so antrpicas, mas as evidencias at a data so ambguas. Aqui se apresentam resultados de um estudo multidisciplinar sobre essa questo. Uma reviso da distribuio geogrfica de B. excelsa e uma comparao com as sapucaias (Lecythis spp.) sugerem vrias anomalias compatveis com uma recente colonizao de Bertholletia pela Amaznia. Estudos publicados e observaes em campo sugerem que a perturbao antrpica facilita a regenerao de castanhais. Estudos genticos recentes demonstram nenhuma diversidade gentica de sequncias de cpDNA e nenhuma estruturao geogrfica da variabilidade intra-populacional, o qual sugere uma expanso rpida e recente. Estudos lingusticos sugerem uma origem para Bertholletia no norte/leste da Amaznia, com uma expanso mais recente da distribuio ou cultivao para o sul e o oeste. Tal expanso teria sido facilitado pela emergncia do cultivo intensivo de mandioca amarga e redes de contato inter-tnico especialmente a partir do primeiro milnio dC. Dados ecolgicos, fitogeogrficos, genticos, lingusticos, e arqueolgicos reforam a hiptese de que os povos amaznicos antigos tiveram un papel significante no estabelecimento dessa paisagem amaznica emblemtica
4253978|The proliferation of an aquatic plant, water hyacinth, Eichhornia crassipes, has prompted investigation into the nutrient requirements of this plant, as well as its capacity for removing micronutrients (selected transition metal ions and phosphorus) from fresh water. The apparent stimulation of growth by iron and manganese led to experiments to evaluate the rate of uptake of these two elements, present as the EDTA salts, in comparison with phosphorus. One-compartment experiments indicate all three elements are actively absorbed by the root systems, but the rates of absorption and translocation differ markedly. Specifically, phosphorus as
4254399| During a germplasm collecting expedition to Tamil Nadu, India, sweet-stalk types of pearl millet, Pennisetum americanum, were collected around Coimbatore (11N) and Madurai (10N). The local farmers cut the crop before flowering for fodder and the ratoon crop provides some grain and straw. When planted at the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics Center, Patancheru (1730N), these types flowered later and grew relatively tall in the rainy season in comparison with their growth during postrainy season. The sweet-stalk types are characterized by long narrow leaf blades, profuse nodal tillering with asynchronous maturity, short thin spikes, and very small grains as compared with the normal types. The sweet-stalk types could be easily identified by chewing them at the dough stage. At maturity they contained more than twice the amount of soluble sugars than the normal types. 
4255309| Tamangs, one of the ethnic tribes of Nepal, have a good association with plant resources they use for their existence. The paper provides a glimpse of medico-botany of this tribe. As many as 95 plant species, both wild and cultivated, representing 88 genera under 47 families, have been found to be of common use for the treatment of various ailments. Curculigo orchioides is the only plant representing the monocotyledons. /// Die Tamangs, eine der ethnischen Stmme Nepals, haben eine enge Beziehung zur Pflanzenwelt, die sie als Lebensgrundlage nutzen. Dieser Artikel gibt einen Einblick in die Heilpflanzenkunde dieses Stammes. Man hat nicht weniger als 95 verschiedene, sowohl wildwachsende als auch gezchtete entdeckt, Pflanzenspezies die Anwendung in der Behandlung unterschiedlichster Erkrankungen finden. Diese Pflanzen reprsentieren 88 Gattungen in 47 Familien. Curculigo orchioides ist die einzige unter ihnen, die monokotyle aufgebaut ist. 
4255774|Eighty-one herbal drug species in 51 families and 77 genera are documented. These plants are represented by 3 families of pteridophytes (3.8%), 3 families of Monocotyledons (4.9%) and 45 families of Dicotyledons (91.3%). The medicinal value of 30 species (37%) has not been previously reported from other parts of Nepal. The preparation, utilization and Nepali names along with the scientific names and their role in local culture for healthcare are discussed. / Diese Studie dokumentiert 81 Spezies von pflanzlichen Heilmitteln aus 51 Familien und 77 Gattungen. Diese Pflanzen sind vertreten durch 3 Familien von Pteridophyten (3.8%), 3 Familien von Monocotyledonen (4.9%) und 45 Familien von Dicotyledonen (91.3%). Der medizinische Wert von 30 Arten (37%) wurde bisher noch nicht aus anderen Teilen des Landes belegt. Die Zubereitung der pflanzlichen Heilmittel, ihre Verwendung und ihre nepalesischen Namen werden zusammen mit ihren wissenschaftlichen Namen und ihrer Rolle in der Gesundheitspflege der lokalen Kultur behandelt.
4256958| This paper reports an ethnobotanical investigation, performed between 1999 and 2002, to determine the wild food plants traditionally used in the province of Madrid (central Spain). One hundred and twenty-three vascular species belonging to 31 families were at one time used as vegetables, wild fruits, in the making of beverages, as seasonings, or as other preparations. Wild vegetables formed the largest group, with Scolymus hispanicus, Silene vulgaris, and Rumex pulcher the most frequently cooked vegetables, and Rorippa nasturtium-aquaticum and Montia fontana the most commonly used in salads. Also common was the consumption of asparagus and several species of climbing plants such as Bryonia dioica, Tamus communis, and Humulus lupulus. Ethnobotanical novelties included Sonchus crassifolius, the young sprouts of which were used in salads, and Inula salicina, used to make herbal tea. Some ecological and cultural aspects of the collection of wild plants for food are discussed, as well as the relationships between the food and medicinal uses of some species. /// En este trabajo se exponen los resultados obtenidos en un estudio etnobotnico, realizado entre 1999 y 2002, sobre las plantas silvestres usadas tradicionalmente en la alimentacin en la regin de Madrid, en el centro de Espaa. Se ha registrado el uso de 123 especies vasculares, pertenecientes a 31 familias, incluyendo verduras, frutos silvestres, plantas utilizadas para elaborar bebidas, condimentarias y otros usos alimentarios de menor entidad. El grupo de verduras es el ms numeroso, destacando por su mayor frecuencia de uso Scolymus hispanicus, Silene vulgaris y Rumex pulcher como verdura cocinada, as como Rorippa nasturtium-aquaticum y Montia fontana para elaborar ensaladas. Igualmente est bastante extendido el consumo como esprragos de diversas especies de plantas trepadoras, como Bryonia dioica, Tamus communis y Humulus lupulus. Entre las novedades etnobotnicas destacamos el consumo en ensalada de los brotes tiernos de Sonchus crassifolius y de Inula salicina como infusin digestiva. Se discuten finalmente algunos aspectos ecolgicos y culturales de la recoleccin de plantas silvestres, as como la relacin entre los usos alimentarios y medicinales de algunas especies. 
4255549| Field observations revealed the consumption of several parts of the vegetable ivory ("tagua") palm not previously reported to be eaten by humans or animals. The whole male inflorescence provides cattle with a fodder nutritionally similar to ryegrass, while the flower clusters provide humans with 102 Kcal/100 g, about four times the caloric density of cauliflower or broccoli. The central mesocarp is similar in composition and caloric density to other fruits and is a comparatively rich source of calcium (116 mg/100 g), potassium (841 mg/100 g), and zinc (1.3 mg/100 g). The interior mesocarp, with 22% fat, is a high caloric density (288 Kcal/100 g) fodder for chickens and is rich in linoleic acid (21%). The immature endosperm, eaten as a snack, is of negligible importance in human nutrition. / Se observ en el campo el consumo, por los seres humanos o los animales, de varias partes de la palma "tagua" (marfil vegetal), que no habia sido reportado previamente en la literatura. La floresencia masculina entera proporciona al ganado una golosina de valor nutricional parecido al raygras, mientras los grupos de flores proporcionan 102 Kcal/100 g a los seres humanos, es decir, cuatro veces la densidad calrica de la coliflor o del brocoli. La parte central del mesocarpio, en su composicin y densidad calrica, es parecida a otras frutas, y relativamente rica en el calcio (116 mg/100 g), potasio (841 mg/100 g) y zinc (1.3 mg/100 g). La parte interior del mesocarpio, con el 22% de materia grasa, brinda a las gallinas un forraje rico tanto en caloras (288 Kcal/100 g) como en su contenido de cido linolico (21%). El endospermo inmaduro, sin un aporte nutricional importante, se consume por la gente ms como golosina. 
4256291|Eleven local varieties of sago palm (Metroxylon sagu Rottb.) in southeast and north Sulawesi and in northern Maluku were studied: one variety with a weak black band on the back of the petiole: three varieties with a brown band on the back of the petiole: seven bandless varieties comprising two spineless, four short spine and one long spine types. Large variation in morphological characteristics and pith dry-matter yield were estimated at 13 to 34% and 55%, respectively. The difference in pith dry-matter yield is mainly attributed to trunk diameter and dry-matter percentage of pith. Trunk diameter was not affected by the length of growth period, which might reflect the palm's own characteristics, such as genetic background and growth environment. The dry-matter percentage of pith was not related to any characteristics measured. The pith dry-matter yield was highest in the short spine type, followed by the spineless and the long spine types. /// Dalam survey tersebut dipelajari sebelas varitas sagu lokal (Metroxylon sagu Rottb.) di Sulawesi Tenggara, Sulawesi Utara, dan Maluku Utara: satu varitas dengan pita sedikit hitam pada bagian belakang dari tulang daun: tiga varitas dengan pita coklat pada bagian belakang belakang dari tulang daun: tujuh varitas tanpa pita terdiri dari dua varitas tanpa duri, empat varitas duri pendek dan satu varitas duri panjang. Terdapat adanya keragaman pada karakteristik morfologi dan hasil bahan kering empulur batang yang diperkirakan berturut-turut berkisar 13 sampai 34% dan 55%. Perbedaan pada hasil bahan kering empulur batang terutama tergantung pada diameter batang dan proporsi kering empulur batang. Diameter batang tidak dipengaruhi oleh panjangnya periode tumbuh; namun nampaknya lebih terkait dengan gambaran karakteristik khusus, seperti latar belakang genetik dan lingkungan tumbuhnya. Persen bobot kering empulur batang tidak ada hubungannya dengan berbagai karakteristik yang diteliti. Hasil bahan kering empulur batang tertinggi adalah pada tipe duri pendek (511kg/batang), diikuti tipe tanpa duri (417kg/batang) dan tipe duri panjang (329kg/batang).
4256731| Dye plants that are commonly used by the regional people of East Anatolia were studied. The following information was collected: local name of plants, the part of plants containing dye, obtained color, dying substances, and extraction of colors. As a result of area investigations carried out between 1994 and 2000, 50 taxa (used for dying wool yarns in the region) belonging to 38 genera and 26 families were determined from collected specimens. By using the dying plants and mediator substances, 15 different colors and tones can be obtained. The main colors are yellow, green, olive green, black, red, blue, dark blue, brown, gray, beige, orange, khaki, mustard, purple, and smoke. The colors and their many different tones were observed on kilims and carpets that are woven in the East Anatolia region of Turkey. /// Bu alimada ok zengin bir floraya sahip olan Dou Anadolu Blgesi'nde halkin yaygin olarak yn boyamada kullandii boya bitkileri, bu bitkilerin yresel isimleri, boya elde edilen bitki kismi ve elde edilen renk, boyar maddeler ve renklerin elde edilme ekli aratirilmitir. 1994-2000 yillari arasinda gerekletirilen aratirma sonunda blgede boya eldesinde kullanilan 26 familyaya ait 38 cins ve bu cinslere ait 50 takson tespit edilmitir. Bu taksonlarin farkli mordanlar kullanilmasi ile 15 ayri renk ile tonlarinin eldesi kaydedildi. Bunlar sari renk ve tonlari, yeil ve tonlari, kahverengi ve tonlari, kirmizi ve tonlari, gri ve tonlari, bej ve tonlari, mavi ve tonlari, zeytin yeili, turuncu, haki ve hardal renkleri, siyah, mor, lacivert ve fme renkleri'dir. 
4254764|The inherent limitations of a random search of higher plants for novel cancer chemotherapeutic agents are reviewed-the National Cancer Institute's (NCI) Anticancer Screening Program. A graphic summary of plant exploration for the NCI is depicted on a world map showing 58 floristic regions. It is estimated that less than one-half of the world flora is economically feasible for collection. Random screening of approximately 35,000 species has led to guidelines that precluded further screening of all species in 333 genera and another 2,905 species in 1,773 genera. These taxa are reported to represent one-half to two-thirds of the species that characterize vegetation in geographic areas most frequently explored for the NCI. It is estimated that 40,000 untested species of flowering plants are readily available and meet the NCI guidelines for antitumor screening. However, because of apparent diminishing returns from random screening of chemicals in plant genera, it is suggested that a good representation of the diversity in the world flora could be obtained in 10,000 collections, if random sampling follows the phytogeographic outline that is recommended. Modifications to the screening methodology might be geared to an expected point of diminishing returns for discovering novel chemotypes. Additionally, the NCI should continue random screening to increase the development of new anticancer drugs; past screening has generated a tremendous wealth of data. Finally, in this paper, the author proposes to utilize lists representing taxa commonly collected for the NCI to create a manual of worldwide common plants.
4254939|Interspecific hybrids between Parthenium argentatum, the guayule rubber plant, and P. fruticosum var. fruticosum were evaluated for their potential rubber content and quality. Fifteen-mo-old field-grown plants of P. fruticosum var. fruticosum measured four times more in height and spread than those of P. argentatum, but contained less than 0.05% rubber of low mol wt. Parthenium argentatum showed 2% rubber content, with a mol wt of about one million. Resin contents varied little among parents or hybrids. The same age F
4255256| Data based on independent interviews with 45 herbalists of the Luo of Siaya District, Kenya, comprised 1129 remedy reports and related to 330 species of plants. While 49% of the remedies were encountered only once we list here 66 remedies (49 taxa) that were confirmed through independent reports from three or more individuals. A log-linear model was applied to these data in order to establish criteria for evaluating the likely efficacy of specific remedies. A quantitative interaction effect was calculated for each remedy as a measure of its degree of confirmation. The validity of the values derived from the mathematical model is considered in relation to classical criteria for evaluating ethnomedicinal reports. /// Les rsultats d'enqutes individuelles avec 45 herboristes Luo du district de Siaya au Kenya ont permis de rpertorier 330 espces de plantes mdicinales utilises dans quelques 1129 traitements herboristes. Puisque 49% de ces plantes mdicinales n'avaient t mentionnes qu'une seule fois, nous avons bti une liste de 66 plantes mdicinales (49 taxa) dont chacune a t rapporte par plus de trois herboristes. Les rsultats obtenus ont t incorpors dans un modle logarithmique linaire afin d'identifier des critres d'evaluation de l'efficacit de ces plantes mdicinales. Pour chacune des plantes mdicinales "l'effet de l'interacton quantitative" a t utilis comme mesure de son degr de confirmation. La validit des rsultats obtenus  partir de ce modle mathmatique a t compare aux critres classiques d'valuation des rapports ethnomdicinaux. 
4254676|The Huastec Indians of northeastern Mexico manage their forests in an indigenous system that integrates commercial and subsistence production. Elements of primary and secondary forest coexist with introduced species in this diverse silvi-cultural structure which complements the swidden and permanent agriculture fields of the Huastec farmstead. The forest's direct production of the food, timber, and fuel resources discussed here buffers the Huastec peasant family against market fluctuations and the failed harvest of a single crop. The Huastec system of forest management offers an alternative pattern to the agroforestry and plantation schemes now being suggested for development in the tropics. It is an alternative that provides protection for wild genetic resources while it contributes to the combination of commercial and subsistence agriculture so important for the successful modernization of peasant agriculture. The documentation of this system demonstrates that ethnobotanists and economic botanists have an important but unrealized role to play in the protection of biotic resources and in the development of sustained yield agroecosystems for peasants. The contributions of ethnobotanists are particularly valuable because they can find where and why useful wild species persist in agroecosystems. A greater effort to direct the attentions of policy makers to the value of ethnobotanical knowledge is needed.
4256328| We present a framework for understanding farmer plant breeding (including both choice of varieties and populations and plant selection) in terms of the basic biological model of scientific plant breeding, focusing on three key components of that model: 1) genetic variation, 2) environmental variation and variation of genotype-by-environment interaction, and 3) plant selection. For each of these concepts we suggest questions for research on farmers' plant breeding (farmers' knowledge, practice, and crop varieties and growing environments). A sample of recent research shows a range of explicit and implicit answers to these questions which are often contradictory, suggesting that generalizations based on experience with specific varieties, environments or farmers may not be valid. They also suggest that farmers' practice reflects an understanding of their crop varieties and populations that is in many ways fundamentally similar to that of plant breeders; yet, is also different, in part because the details of their experiences are different. Further research based on this framework should be valuable for participatory or collaborative plant breeding that is currently being proposed to reunite farmer and scientific plant breeding. /// Se presenta un marco terico para un mas claro entendimiento del fitomejoramiento de los agricultores (se incluye tanto la seleccin o identificacion de variedades, poblaciones, o plantas individuales) desde la ptica de un modelo biolgico bsico. Dicho modelo trata 1) la variacin gentica 2) la variacin ambiental, la variacin de la interacin genotipo-ambiente y 3) la seleccin de plantas. Para cada uno de los conceptos anteriormente expresados se sugieren preguntas para investigar el fitomejoramiento de los agricultores (conocimiento de los agricultores, prctica, variedades de cultivo y sus ambientes). Una muestra de la reciente investigacin demostr un rango de implicitas y explicitas respuestas para las preguntas formuladas, las cuales son en ocasiones contradictorias, lo que sugiere que la generalizacin de las experiencias basada con especficas variedades, ambientes o agricultores pudieran no ser vlida. Se plantea que las prcticas de los campesinos reflejan un entendimiento de sus variedades y poblaciones que tienen en parte cierta similitud con los fitomejoreadores convencionales, aunque en parte es tambien diferente ya que los detalles de las experiencias de agricultores y fitomejoradores convencionales son distintas. Otras investigaciones basados en este marco pudieran contribuir al fitomejoramiento colaborativo o participativo, lo cual actualmente ha sido propuesto para reunificar a los agricultores y los cientficos del fitomejoramiento de plantas. 
4254430|Two edible "root" species, springbank clover (Trifolium wormskioldii), and Pacific silverweed (Potentilla anserina ssp. pacifica), are described and their use as food by Northwest Coast Indian peoples documented. Descriptions of traditional harvesting, cooking and serving, and storage techniques for these foods are provided, and their future potential as a food source along the Northwest Coast is discussed.
4252057|Seeds and softwood cuttings have been found to offer rapid and reliable means of propagating this genus of tropical lianas, the seeds of which are a source of sarmentogenin that is convertible into the drug cortisone.
4287921|Three native species of Baccharis are here reported to be poisonous and thus to constitute a menace to grazing cattle and sheep.
4287813|The annual rings in suitable living trees have provided significant, centuries-long histories of past rainfall, temperature and river flow for many regions and have served to precisely date several hundred Southwestern ruins by overlap-matching with ancient timbers. Some of the stunted trees in very adverse environments were found to have the most sensitive chronologies and to attain ages twice or more the usual maxima on optimum sites. Tree-ring data for the western United States show that in pre-Columbian times the accumulated excess or deficit in rainfall occasionally greatly exceeded that recorded by gages during the past decades.
4251861|This poisonous drug, formerly available only from Europe, India and the Sudan but now produced also in the United States to the extent of 80,000 pounds annually, has been used therapeutically since ancient times and today has common use in modern medicine.
4254079|The Navajo of Canyon de Chelly, Arizona, learned peach cultivation from the Hopi in the eighteenth century. Navajos plant volunteer seedings and seeds. Slip planting, grafting, budding, pruning living branches, and fruit thinning, which had no precedents in Navajo agriculture, were rejected. Navajos protect their orchards against mammalian pests, and now practice spring spraying. Mapping of present orchards showed them to be located on alluvial terraces receiving runoff from cliffs and small tributary drainages; irrigation is occasionally practiced. Peaches are eaten fresh, boiled, or dried and stewed, and are used as a ceremonial purgative. Kernels are used in polishing stone griddles and in witch-craft.
4253839|Merremia discoidesperma (Donn. Sm.) O'Donell (Mary's-bean) is a rarely collected and inadequately described high climbing woody liana of Chiapas, Mexico; Guatemala; Costa Rica; Hispaniola; and Cuba. There is only one record of this species being cultivated and this from Guanajuato, Mexico in 1894, though seeds are used in folk remedies. These seeds are topographically unlike other known convolvulaceous seeds, thus permitting their positive identification. Because seeds remain buoyant for more than three years in seawater, those produced in the Caribbean and Atlantic drainage region may be transported by the Gulf Stream System as far north as the Norwegian coast, a distance of about 9,500 km. Seeds produced in the Pacific drainage region from Chiapas, Mexico south to Costa Rica may be transported by the North Pacific Equatorial Current as far west as Wotho Atoll in the Marshall Islands, a distance of about 11,000 km. Records of drifting and subsequent stranding of these and other tropical New World disseminules are supported by drift bottle studies and drift debris records in the Atlantic Ocean. In the Pacific Ocean region distribution of stranded Mary's-bean seeds is supported by a similar distribution of New World pumice. There is an indication in the literature that Mary's-bean seeds may drift to the Philippines. The record from Wotho Atoll to Norway constitutes the widest drift range of any seed or fruit which has been documented. Other tropical disseminules may drift as far or farther, but their origins cannot be ascertained with certainly. The plant is described, its synonyms listed, and its distribution as well as the distribution of its stranded seeds recorded.
4255053|Historical records show that the Midwestern dent corns of the United States originated from hybridization of two landraces, Northern Flint and Southern Dent. We examined the origin of Southern and Midwestern Dents by means of isozyme electrophoresis. Isozyme genotypes were determined for 23 loci in 12 plants each of 32 accessions of Southern Dent. Previously published isozyme data for maize landraces of Mexico and North America and for U.S. Midwestern Dents were included for comparative purposes. The data show that Northern Flint and Southern Dent are among the isozymically most divergent maize landraces. Nei's genetic identities between populations of these two landraces are very low for conspecific populations (ca. 0.80). Southern Dent of the southeastern U.S. appears closely related to similar dent corns of southern Mexico, supporting a previously published hypothesis that U.S. Southern Dent is largely derived from the dent corns of southern Mexico. The Midwestern Dents, which resulted from crosses of Southern Dent and Northern Flint, are much more like Southern Dent than Northern Flint in their isozyme profile. Similarly, public inbreds show greater affinity to Southern Dent with the exception of sweet corn lines, which resemble Northern Flint in their isozyme allele frequencies. North American public inbreds do not contain appreciable isozymic variation beyond that found in Northern Flint and Southern Dent.
4256090|This study documents the abundance, distribution and knowledge of medicinal plant species in a Ransa Dayak village and adjoining forest in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. Over 250 medicinal plant species from 165 genera and 75 families are utilized by the local healer. Late successional, primary and river bench forests contained the highest diversity of locally-utilized medicinal species and the greatest number of species restricted to a single forest type for which alternative species or remedies were unavailable. Epiphytes and trees restricted to primary forests are particularly important sources for plants used to treat unusual ailments. A 100% survey of village residents 15 years of age and older (N = 32) revealed that people older than 25 years of age, and older females in particular, possessed greater knowledge of medicinal plants and their uses than younger people and males. All residents, except the male healer, were more knowledgeable about medicinal plants found in early successional forests than those of primary forests. Commercial logging and the loss of traditional knowledge through acculturation pose twin challenges to the persistence of traditional medicinal plant use in this Ransa village and throughout much of Kalimantan. /// Penelitian ini mengumpulkan informasi mengenai keberadaan, penyebaran dan pengetahuan tentang jenis tumbuhan obat di daerah perkampungan Daya' Ransa dengan hutan sekitarnya di Kalimantan Barat, Indonesia. Lebih dari 250 spesies tumbuhan obat dari 165 genus dan 75 suku digunakan oleh dukun setempat. Hutan sekunder tua, hutan primer dan daerah hutan sepanjang pinggir sungai merupakan tipe hutan yang memiliki keanekaragaman dan jenis tumbuhan obat paling tinggi yang hanya tumbuh di tipe hutan tersebut serta tidak adanya jenis tumbuhan obat pengganti untuk mengobati penyakit yang sama di tipe hutan lain. Jenis epipit dan pohon yang ditemukan khusus di hutan primer mempunyai arti sangat penting bagi masyarakat karena digunakan untuk menogobati jenis penyakit yang tidak biasa. Dari survey 100% yang dilakukan terhadap penghuni desa yang usianya lebih dari 15 tahun (N = 32) diketahui bahwa penduduk yang berusia lebih dari 25 tahun, terutama perempuan berusia tua, mempunyai pengetahuan yang lebih banyak mengenai pemanfaatan tumbuhan obat dibandingkan dengan laki-laki dan perempuan yang lebih muda. Seluruh penduduk, kecuali sang dukun, lebih mengetahui pemanfaatan tumbuhan obat yang tumbuh di hutan sekunder muda dibandingkan dengan tumbuhan obat yang tumbuh di hutan primer. Kegiatan pembalakan hutan berskala besar (HPH) dan hilangnya pengetahuan tradisional lewat perubahan budaya adalah dua tantangan yang dihadapi untuk dapat mempertahankan pemakaian dan melestarikan tumbuhan obat di kampung ini khususnya dan di seluruh Kalimantan umumnya.
4255914| Results from a study of maize varieties and seed sources in a traditional community in Jalisco, Mexico, raise questions about the relationship between genetic erosion and the introduction of varieties. The relevance of models for in situ conservation of crop genetic resources based on geographical isolation of a community is discussed. The morphophenological diversity of local materials is shown to be enhanced by introductions of both improved cultivars and landraces from farmers in other communities. On the other hand, the geographical point of reference for defining "local" landrace is shown to be larger than the community itself. Farmers will classify seed obtained from other farmers in and outside the community as that of a local landrace if it resembles their own according to the phenotypic characteristics they use to distinguish varieties. Maize diversity in this community is then the result of a certain level of introduction of genetic material and not of geographical isolation. /// L'tude des varits de mas et de l'origine de leurs semences dans une communaut traditionnelle de l'tat de Jalisco au Mexique rfute la relation de cause  effet traditionnellement tablie entre l'introduction de varits exognes et l'rosion gntique. Les rsultats remettent en question la pertinence de modles de conservation in situ des ressources gntiques de plantes cultives bass sur l'isolement gographique d'une communaut. A Cuzalapa, les varits amliores et les varits paysannes introduites d'autres rgions sont source de diversit morphophnologique. D'autre part, l'chelle gographique  laquelle une varit paysanne peut tre dfinie comme "locale" dpasse la communaut paysanne. Un lot de semences introduit prsentant les mmes caractristiques phnotypiques qu'une varit locale peut tre considr par les agriculteurs comme faisant partie de ce cultivar et ne plus s'en distinguer. La diversit gntique du mas dans cette zone est donc le rsultat d'un certain niveau d'introduction de matriel gntique et non de son isolement gographique. /// El estudio de las variedades de maz y del origen de las semillas en una comunidad tradicional del estado de Jalisco, en Mxico, cuestiona la relacin de causaefecto tradicionalmente establecida entre la introduccin de variedades forneas y la erosin gentica. Se discute sobre la pertinencia de modelos de conservacin in situ de los recursos genticos de plantas cultivadas basados en el aislamiento geogrfico de una comunidad. En Cuzalapa, las variedades mejoradas y las variedades campesinas introducidas de otras regiones son fuente de diversidad morfofenolgica. Por otro lado, la escala geogrfica a la que una variedad campesina puede ser definida como "local" rebasa el nivel de la comunidad. Un lote de semilla introducido que presenta las caractersticas fenotpicas de una variedad local puede ser considerado por los agricultores como parte de esta variedad y no distinguirse de ella. Por lo tanto, la diversidad gentica del maz en esta zona es el resultado de cierto nivel de introduccin de material gentico y no de su aislamiento geogrfico. 
4254365|Three species of Amaranthus are cultivated for their edible seeds: A. hypochondriacus L., A. cruentus L., and A. caudatus L. The first two are native to Mexico and Guatemala, while the third originated in the Andes. Some authors recognize a fourth species, A. Mantegazzianus Pass. (A. edulis Speg.), also from South America. Recent interest in amaranths as crops for improving Third World nutrition makes studies of relationships among amaranth species and intraspecific variation important. The weedy species A. hybridus L. (A. quitensis HBK) has been suggested as the progenitor of A. caudatus, and it appears to be the closest wild relative of the crop. However, discovery of semidomesticated, dark-seeded amaranths in Ecuador that are referable to A. caudatus raises some questions. The dark-seeded plants might represent a transitional form between the crop and its weedy progenitor, the product of independent selection of special forms of A. hybridus, the result of introgressive hybridization between the crop and related weed, established escapes from cultivation, or remnants of the ancestor of the crop which may have been simply wild A. caudatus and not A. hybridus. Detailed morphological comparisons have been made among cultivated forms of A. caudatus, the semidomesticate, and A. hybridus. Genetic data have been considered, and 2 mixed populations including A. hybridus and the semidomesticate have been examined. Although all the other hypotheses cannot be eliminated, the dark-seeded A. caudatus plants seem most likely to represent escapes from cultivation. Separate recognition of A. Mantegazzianus does not seem warranted.
4256426| Several products derived from processed maca hypocotyls (Lepidium peruvianum Chacn, previously known as L. meyenii Walp.) were surveyed for glucosinolate content and quantified by HPLC analysis. These included pills, capsules, flour, liquor, tonic and mayonnaise. Different plant organs such as fresh hypocotyls and leaves, seeds, dry hypocotyls, and sprouts were also included in the survey. The most abundant glucosinolates detected in fresh and dry hypocotyls and leaves were the aromatic glucosinolates, benzylglucosinolate (glucotropaeolin) and p-methoxybenzylglucosinolate. Maca seeds and sprouts differed in profile from hypocotyls and leaves due to the modification of benzylglucosinolate. No glucosinolates were detected in liquor and tonic, while mayonnaise had only trace amounts of those glucosinolates. It had instead allylglucosinolate (sinigrin), which is an aliphatic glucosinolate. The pills, capsules and flour had the same glucosinolates as those observed in hypocotyls, but in variable amounts. The richest sources of glucosinolates were seeds, fresh hypocotyls and sprouts, in that order. /// Se determinaron glucosinolatos por HPLC (cromatografa lquida de alto rendimiento) en la maca (Lepidium peruvianum Chacn, antes L. meyenii Walp.) y en varios de sus productos derivados. Estos incluyeron comprimidos, cpsulas, harina, licor, tonico y mayonesa de maca. Adems de plntulas, se muestrearon semillas, hojas e hipocotilos frescos, as como hipocotilos secos. Los glucosinolatos ms abundantes detectados en hojas y en hipocotilos frescos y secos fueron los aromticos benzylglucosinolato (glucotropaeolin) y p-methoxybenzylglucosinolato. Las plntulas y semillas mostraron perfiles de glucosinolatos diferentes al de las hojas e hipocotilos debido a la modificacin de benzylglucosinolato. No se detectaron glucosinolatos en el licor y tonico, mientras que el contenido de estos en la mayonesa fue mnimo. Esta ms bien mostr el glucosinolato aliftico allylglucosinolato (sinigrin). Los comprimidos, cpsulas, y harina mostraron el mismo perfil de glucosinolatos que el de los hipocotilos. En orden de mayor a menor las fuentes ms ricas en glucosinolatos fueron las semillas, hipocotilos frescos y plntulas. 
40390461|As high-value gourmet mushrooms, the matsutake complex of the genus Tricholoma has been the subject of extensive research. This article reviews two trajectories of matsutake research, showing how distinctive regional nodes may develop within a cosmopolitan modern science. The global center of matsutake research is in Japan, where problems of artificial cultivation and the "orchard-style" enhancement of production under forest conditions stimulate basic research. U.S. Pacific Northwest research forms a contrasting regional node, with a focus on sustainable yields in the context of timber production. Regional differences in research design and results point to the importance of distinctive scientific legacies, in this case formed in relation to divergent histories of forest management. Attention to regional distinctions in the framing of scientific problems is particularly important as scientific frameworks are exported to new places; for example, both Japanese and American forms of matsutake science have been extended to China. ///  Trich olna           
4287913|The principal economic importance of lichens lies in their providing sustenance for hundreds of thousands of reindeer in circumpolar regions, animals upon which the Eskimos, Lapps and other Far North peoples depend for food and clothing. Industrially many of them still furnish raw materials for the dyeing and cosmetic industries, and in past times some of them served for brewing, distilling and medicine. During World War II, the reindeer industry contributed substantially to the Soviet war effort.
4254897|Paintings produced in Flanders and Holland from the 16th to the 19th centuries are useful sources for a study of the evolution of domesticated crops. They show many types of vegetables, fruits, and ornamentals that are either not described or scantly mentioned in the literature of that period. So we come across "really red" cabbage, which may have been called roosken, and cauliflower with stems some 25 cm long. We further notice many colour variants of grapes, study of which may well provide information on the variation present in the crop at the time. Spikes of wheat and barley were rarely depicted. The few spikes of wheat shown resemble the variety Zeeuwse Witte, a landrace replaced around 1900. Many paintings and illustrations by Flemish and Dutch artists have been distributed all over the world. These works can therefore be investigated in many places for information on the history of domesticated crops.
4254874| Ethnobotanical information was collected and the degree of acculturation was estimated for 3 Indian groups: 1) the Guaym near Soloy, Panama, 2) the Guaym near San Vito, Costa Rica, and 3) the Cabecar in the Telire Reserve, Costa Rica. In both Guaym settlements, the introduction of cattle, cacao, and coffee had altered traditional agricultural systems. Also, the availability of modern agricultural seeds had reduced the planting frequency of indigenous crop varieties. In comparison, the Cabecar agricultural traditions in the isolated Telire Reserve remain essentially intact. Of the persons interviewed, the Telire inhabitants were more willing to discuss and were more knowledgeable of native plant uses, especially medicinal uses, than either Guaym group. Expeditions to these areas indicated that much ethnobotanical information remains undocumented, especially in the Telire Reserve, and that continual acculturation pressures leave little time to achieve complete documentation. 
4254803|Chewing fresh leaves and tender twigs of Catha edulis, commonly known as kat, in order to experience their amphetamine-like stimulant action is on the increase in regions of traditional use-e.g., southern part of the Arabian Peninsula, the Horn of Africa (Somalia, Djibouti), Ethiopia, Kenya, and Madagascar. Although the genus Catha was first delineated nearly 200 yr ago, botanical descriptions rarely mention that plants may bear alternate or opposite leaves and never include an explanation for the presence of shoots with opposite leaves and shoots with alternate leaves on the same plant. An obscure paper (1903) by the late Sir David Prain in a long defunct journal goes into considerable detail on the matter. Extensive excerpts from that paper are reprinted. The association of various market grades of kat with morphological origin and age is suggested. The extensive polymorphism of the kat plant is described. More work is needed to understand kat from morphological, chemical, and pharmacological perspectives.
4254804|Forest-product use among nonforest dwelling cultural groups in Southeast Asia is not well known, particularly in contrast to what is known about indigenous forest-product collectors. A case study in one lowland Filipino village in Leyte, Philippines, revealed that over half of village households depend upon 8 species of commercially valuable rattan and 8 species of timber as a primary source of livelihood, and that all village households collected forest-products for supplementary and emergency income. The future of the rattan and timber trade on Leyte is seriously threatened by agricultural encroachment and intensive collecting pressures in the absence of forest management.
4255827| The cultivation of Phytolacca dodecandra has been studied in Zimbabwe in order to initiate local production of the berries from which molluscicidal saponins can be extracted and used in schistosomiasis control programs. The effect of shading, water and nutrient type on growth and berry yield of an imported Ethiopian and a Zimbabwean cultivar were monitored. The molluscicidal potency and saponin concentration of the aqueous extracts of berries, harvested at the full grown, unripe development stage, were determined. There was a marked seasonal variation in berry production with both cultivars being highly productive in the dry season. The best growth and the highest berry yield was obtained with plants grown in full sunlight, under irrigation and with application of cattle manure. The Ethiopian cultivar showed in general better growth and higher berry yield than the Zimbabwean cultivar. Cultivation in shade gave a substantially lower berry yield and saponin concentration in both cultivars, compared to full sunlight. Irrigation was beneficial to the berry yield in both cultivars but lowered the saponin concentration in berries of the Ethiopian cultivar. However, it did not counteract the advantage of irrigation on the total yield. Addition of manure did significantly increase the growth and the berry yield of both cultivars compared to fertilizer application and to the control. The saponin concentration was in general lower with addition of manure, with exception of irrigated Ethiopian plants. The combination of cattle manure and irrigation resulted in the highest saponin yield. Although the two cultivars had different saponin patterns, these patterns and the relative proportions of the saponins were constant, irrespective of the treatments. /// Un extrait aqueux des baies de Phytolacca dodecandra contient des saponines toxiques  l'gard des mollusques, htes intermdiaires de la maladie tropique parasitaire schistosomiase. Cette plante a t slectionne comme la meilleur pour produire des matriaux molluscicides dans l'utilisation de programmes sanitaires dans le but de controller la schistosomiase. La culture de deux cultivars de Phytolacca dodecandra a t tudie au Zimbabwe pour valuer les meilleures circonstances de culture. Le plus grand rendement de baies et de saponines a t obtenu d'une culture ensoleille, d'irrigation et d'engraissage avec des engrais d'animaux domestiques. 
4255993| The genus Cordia (Boraginaceae) is made up of a great many species widely distributed in tropical and subtropical regions of the world. The leaves of Cordia myxa, as also those of many other species of the same genus, have been utilized in the traditional medicine of many countries for the treatment of a variety of diseases. Observed by light microscope and by scanning electron microscope the histological characteristics of the leaf of Cordia francisci, C. martinicensis, C. serratifolia and C. ulmifolia, species grown in Sicily, compared also with those of the leaves of C. myxa originating from Africa, are described in detail. It has been possible to reveal some morphological elements that allow leaf identification and the differentiation of the drugs examined. /// Le genre Cordia (Boraginaceae) est compos d'un trs grand nombre d'espces largement distribuises dans les rgions tropicales et subtropicales du monde. Les feuilles de Cordia myxa, tout comme celles de nombreuses autres espces du mme genre, ont t utilises dans la mdicine traditionnelle de maints pays dans le traitement de diverses maladies. On a dcrit en dtail les caractristiques histologiques de la feuille de Cordia francisci., C. martinicensis, C. serratifolia et C. ulmifolia, espces qui poussent en Sicile et qui ont t observes au microscope optique et au microscope electronique  balayage. On les a galement compares  celles des feuilles de C. myxa L., provenant de l'Afrique. Il a t possible de dcouvrir quelques lments morphologiques qui ont permis l'identification de la feuille et la diffrenciation des drogues examines. 
4255245| Loroco, Fernaldia pandurata (Apocynaceae), grows wild commonly in northern Central America and southern Mexico. The peculiarly odoriferous buds and unopened flowers are habitually consumed, especially in El Salvador and Honduras, usually cooked with cheese, eggs, rice, or chicken or combined with other ingredients in crepes, tortillas, and tamales. To meet the demand of countrymen now living in the United States, farmers in El Salvador are cultivating the vine commercially and exporting the flowers mainly to California and Washington, DC. The flowers are reported to be high in calcium and niacin. Though this vine is closely related to toxic members of the dogbane family, tests of the flowers for cardiac glycosides are negative. The root is used as a poison. /// Loroco, Fernaldia pandurata (Apocynaceae), crece silvestre frequentemente en el norte de Amrica Central y en el sur de Mxico. Los pimpollos y flores jvenes, odorferos, se comen habitualmente, sobre todo en El Salvador y Honduras, generalmente cocidas con queso, huevos, arroz, pollo, o, junto con otros ingredientes, en crepas, tortillas, y tamales. A modo de satisficer los deseos de los compatriotas viviendo en los Estados Unidos, agricultores en El Salvador estn cultivando la planta en escala comercial y exportando las flores a California y Washington, DC. Las flores son ricas en calcio y niacina. Aunque la trepadora es pariente cercana de otros miembros de la familia botnica Apocynaceae que son txicas, las pruebas revelan la ausencia de glicosidas cardiacas. La raiz se emplea para envenenar. 
4256290| The long, thin fiber cells of Hesperaloe funifera have been identified as having potential value in paper-making, although no studies to date have reported data on their technical strength properties in test papers. This study summarizes evaluations done by the Herty Foundation on Hesperaloe fiber. Tensile strength, burst strength, and tear strength of paper made from Hesperaloe are significantly greater than those of softwood kraft, the industry standard. Tensile and burst strength of Hesperaloe pulps are also higher than those of abaca or sisal, two high-value specialty fibers; tear strength is somewhat lower in Hesperaloe. The fibers of Hesperaloe were processed in two ways-using a decorticator or using a roller mill. Pulp obtained from the decorticated leaf fibers had higher strength properties. /// Se han identificado las cellulas largas y delgadas de fibra de Hesperaloe funifera con valor potencial en la fabricacin de papeles, aunque hasta ahora no haba estudios sobre las propiedades tcnicas de resistencia en papeles de prueba. Esta investigacin resume evaluacines hechas por la Fundacin de Herty con fibras de Hesperaloe. La resistencia tensora, la resistencia de reventar, y la resistencia de rasgar son ms de las de 'softwood kraft', el criterio de la industria. La resistencia tensora y la resistencia de reventar de la pulpa hecha de Hesperaloe tambin son mejores que las de abaca o de sisal, dos fibras especiales de alta valor; la resistencia de rasgar es ms baja en Hesperaloe. Las fibras de Hesperaloe fueron elaboradas por dos maneras, usando una maquina de descortezmiento o un molino con rodillos. La pulpa obtenida de las hojas descortezadas tuvieron mejores propiedades de resistencia. 
4251864|In India and other parts of the Old World kenaf has long been of value in the manufacture of gunny cloth, cordage, fishing nets, floor matting and rug backing, and since 1941 investigations have been conducted toward its cultivation in the New World.
4253376|This paper is a description and sociocultural analysis of Datura fastuosa ingestion in the girls' puberty school of the Tsonga (Shangana-Tsonga) of Mozambique and the northern Transval. The rite involves music/color synesthesia and the hearing of a supernatural voice and is associated by the Tsonga with fertility. The origin and function of the rite is discussed and, in connection with certain of its aspects, cross-cultural comparisons are made. The author did extensive fieldwork in southern Africa during the two-year period 1968-70 under grants from the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research (#2504) and the University of the Witwatersrand. He is a graduate of the California State University at Hayward (M.A. in Music, 1968) and the California State University at Fullerton (M.A. in Anthropology, 1972). Some of the present material formed part of a Ph.D. dissertation submitted in 1972 to the University of the Witwatersrand, and at present under examination.
4255412| The recent accumulation of cytogenetic evidence on the ancestry of the earliest domesticated plants provides an empirical test of the relative importance of independent invention and diffusion in the origin and spread of agriculture. The most parsimonious interpretation of the data is that plant species were domesticated no more than a few times, and perhaps only once, in the Near East and Mexico. Multiple domestications of species may have taken place in the central Andes, but it is impossible to say whether any such cases were truly independent, because of the scantiness of the archaeological as well as botanical record. Evidence from other agricultural centers is limited, and does not negate the conclusion that multiple independent domestications within regions were rare, while domestications of the same species or genus in different regions did not occur as frequently as some authorities have claimed. The prevailing tendency to interpret archaeological sequences as almost entirely the result of local in situ development is not entirely in accord with theory, nor with the genetic evidence summarized here. /// La acumulacin reciente de evidencia citogenetica en la ascendencia de las primeras plantas cultivadas proporciona un anlisis emprico de la importancia relativa de la invencin independiente y la diffusin en los origenes y el expansin de la agricultura. La interpretacin ms frugal de los datos nos dice que las especies se cultivaron en muy pocas ocasiones, y puede que en una sola ocasin en el Cercano Oriente y Mxico. La domesticacin mltiple de especies puede que tuviera lugar en los Andes Centrales, pero es imposible decir si en tales casos esos cultivos eran verdaderamente independientes, debido a la escasa documentacin arqueolgica y botnica. La evidencia de los otros centros agrcolas es limitada y no niega la conclusin de que las domesticaciones independientes mltiples dentro de las regiones fueran poco comunes, mientras que las domesticaciones de la misma especie o gnero en regiones diferentes no se dieran con tanta frequencia como dicen las autoridades. La tendencia predominante que interpreta las secuencias arqueolgicas como el resultado casi total del desarrollo local in situ no est totalmente de acuerdo con la teoria ni con la evidencia genetica aqu resumida. 
4255156| The present paper deals with investigations of less known medicinal plant lore among the aboriginal Nicobarese tribe of Car Nicobar island, India. Information on 73 species and their therapeutic applications and manner of use are initially documented and described as remedies in folkloric tradition and popular domestic medicine. No chemical principles are identified; no putative herbal remedies are pharmaceutically and medically evaluated. The aim of this paper is to gather information concerning medicinal plants and to provide access to specialists in search of their applications in modern medicine. A brief account of geography, climate, ethnology, and methodology adopted is given. Vernacular name(s) of the plants in the Nicobarese language are incorporated for the first time in the literature. /// La communication ci-jointe traite les investigations sur quelques plantes mdicinales interssantes et pas bien connues, qui sont utilises par le tribu aboriginal nicobarois de l'Ile de Car Nicobar, Inde. Soixante-treize spces, leurs applications thrapeutiques, et leurs modes d'emploi sont documentes et dcrites comme mdicaments traditionnels et folkloriques. Les herbes mdicinales putatives ne sont pas evalues dne manire pharmaceutique ou mdicale. Le but de la communication est de rassembler l'information concernant les plantes mdicinales afin de donner access aux spcialistes qui cherchent leurs applications dans la pratique mdicale moderne. Un bref compte-rendu de la gographie, climatologie, ethnologie, et mthodologie est fourni. Les noms vernaculaires des plantes dans la langue Nicobaroise sont ajouts  la littrature pour la premire fois. 
4257058| A previous study provided a general quantitative analysis of 169 collected medicinal plants used by the Q'eqchi' Maya healers of southern Belize. This paper is focused on a statistical analysis of this ethnobotanical information using the method developed by Moerman (1991). The residual values obtained from the regression analysis of the Q'eqchi' medicinal plant species versus the species listed in the checklist of the vascular plants of Belize (Balick, Nee, and Atha, 2001) placed the Piperaceae, the Rubiaceae, and the Asteraceae in the first three ranks, and the Poaceae, the Cyperaceae, and the Orchidaceae in the last three ranks. The results were compared with three northern temperate regions (Kashmir, Korea, and North America) and three southern neotropical regions (Chiapas, Ecuador, and Veracruz). The coefficients of correlation between the checklist of vascular plants of Belize and the other six floras showed, as expected, high values for regions with similar climatic type. Thus, high correlations were determined between the tropical vegetation of Belize and those of Chiapas, Ecuador, and Veracruz. The coefficients were lower with the three temperate floras but still quite high. The same analysis was done with the medicinal plants only and led to much lower coefficients, but once again, the higher results were obtained for Chiapas and Veracruz. In this case, the last rank for Ecuador demonstrated that the selection of plants in traditional medicine by the indigenous people is a complex phenomenon which depends not only on the composition of the flora but also on culture-specific factors. /// Une prcdente tude a fourni une analyse quantitative gnrale de 169 plantes mdicinales utilises par les gurisseurs Maya Q'eqchi' du sud du Belize. Ce document se concentre sur l'analyse statistique des informations ethnobotaniques selon la mthode dveloppe par Moerman (1991). Les valeurs rsiduelles obtenues  partir des analyses de rgression des plantes mdicinales Q'eqchi' vis--vis des espces mentionnes dans la liste des plantes vasculaires du Belize (Balick, Nee, et Atha, 2001) ont plac les Piperaces, les Rubiaces et les Asteraces aux trois premires places, et les Poaces, les Cyperaces et les Orchidaces aux trois dernires places. Les rsultats ont t compars avec ceux de trois rgions tempres du nord (Cachemire, Core, et Amrique du Nord) et de trois rgions notropicales du sud (Chiapas, quateur, et Veracruz). Les coefficients de corrlation entre les plantes listes dans le manuel des plantes vasculaires du Belize et les six autres flores ont montr comme attendu de hautes valeurs pour les rgions possdant un type climatique similaire. Ainsi, une haute corrlation a t dmontre entre la vgtation tropicale du Belize et celles du Chiapas, de l'quateur, et du Veracruz. Les coefficients taient plus bas avec les trois rgions tempres mais tout de mme passablement levs. La mme analyse a t effectue avec les plantes mdicinales et a men  des coefficients beaucoup plus bas, mais encore une fois, les rsultats les plus levs ont t obtenus pour le Chiapas et le Veracruz. Dans ce cas, la dernire position de l'quateur a soulign que la slection des plantes par les indignes dans la mdecine traditionnelle est un phnomne complexe qui dpend non seulement de la composition de la flore mais aussi de facteurs spcifiques  la culture. 
4256684| The importance of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) to rural income was examined in a highland community in the Sierra de Manantln Biosphere Reserve, Jalisco-Colima, Mexico. Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA) techniques were used to interview 70% of households in the community of El Terrero. Of the nine plant species identified as NTFP sources, the two principal species traded by the community were tila (derived from the flowers and fruits of the tree Ternstroemia lineata), and blackberry (Rubus spp.). Collecting and selling of NTFPs was almost exclusively undertaken by women, with 80% of respondents participating. NTFP sale ranked as the most important source of cash income for 30% of women interviewed, and either second- or third-most important for the remainder. The research examined harvesting impact on populations of T. lineata, an understory tree species characteristic of cloud forest, which this was assessed in the four most-frequented collecting sites. Our results suggested that current harvesting approaches appear to be sustainable, although 95% of the women interviewed reported a decline in resource availability within the last 15 years, apparently resulting from illegal cutting. Suggestions are made with respect to the sustainable development of NTFP resources to help alleviate poverty within the Reserve. /// Se evalu la importancia de los productos forestales no maderables (PFNMs) en el ingreso familiar de un ejido ubicado en una zona montaosa de la reserva de la bisfera de Manantln, Jalisco-Colima, Mxico. Se utilizaron tcnicas participativas como entrevistas al 70% de las familias de el ejido "El Terrero." De las nueve especies de plantas identificadas como fuentes de PFNMs, las dos ms comercializadas por la communidad fueron tila (rganos frutales del arbol Ternstroemia lineata) y zarzamora (Rubus spp.) La colecta y venta de PFNMs fue casi exclusivamente llevada por mujeres, con una participacin del 80%. La venta de PFNMs fue la principal fuente de dinero para el 30% de las mujeres entrevistadas, y el segundo o tercero en importancia por las dems. La investigacin examin el impacto de la extraccin en poblaciones silvestres de T. lineata (una especie de bosque nublado), la cual fue evaluada en cuatro de los sitios de colecta ms frecuente. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el nivel y manera de extraccin parecen ser sustentable; aunque el 95% de las mujeres entrevisada han notado que en los ltimos 15 aos la cantidad de recursos naturales ha bajado a causa de la extraccin ilegal. Se hacen sugerencias en cuanto al desarollo sustentable de estos PFNMs, para ayudar a disminuir la pobreza dentro de la reserva. 
4253927|Kenaf, Hibiscus cannabinus L., occurs as a wild and ruderal plant in Kenya and Tanzania. It is polymorphic, varying in height, growth habit, spininess, flower color, and size of floral parts, capsules, and seeds. It occupies several distinct environmental niches, from low-lying meadows close to swamps and streams to semi-arid grassland / thornbush plains. It is also found in various weedy situations, such as cultivated and fallow fields, and fence- and hedge-rows. At least one ecotype appears to be specifically adapted as a weed of cultivated fields. Leaves and stem-tips of this plant are used as food. It is not cultivated for this purpose, although it is sometimes encouraged in fields of maize, cassava, and perhaps other crops. It is apparently not used for fiber by the natives, possibly because fiber of the introduced sisal (Agave sisalana Perr.) is readily available everywhere. Kenaf fiber is produced commercially on a plantation in Tanzania, from a cultivar developed in Guatemala. The occurrence of twelve other taxa of Hibiscus section Furcaria in East Africa is discussed briefly.
4255075|The Latin binomials of a number of plants containing sweet constituents hitherto studied bear epithets that indicate sweetness, such as Acer saccharum, Lippia dulcis, Periandra dulcis, Saccharum officinarum, and Synsepalum dulcificum. Based on this observation, a search for plants bearing epithets that may indicate or relate to the sweetness sensation was carried out, by perusal of Index Kewensis. As a result, a large number of plants were found that bear such epithets. These plants are candidates for future investigation for potential sweet constituents.
41242889|The local nomenclature and use of Capsicum by Khmer and other ethnic groups in Cambodia and the distribution of the diagnostic ShDH-B isozyme pattern of C. frutescens were studied. People in Cambodia use Capsicum in various ways, not only as a condiment but also as a vegetable, a medicine, and a colorant, and in popular beliefs, agricultural rituals, taboos, and rice malt. The findings showed that the ShDH-B phenotype may not have occurred as a mutation in Asia but in the Americas and then was introduced to Asia. Also, the ShDH-B phenotype is distributed in the insular regions of Southeast and East Asia and Oceania, but seems not to be distributed in the continental region of Southeast Asia. One possible hypothesis is that C. frutescens possessing the ShDH-B phenotype was introduced directly from the Americas via Oceania to the Philippines, and it thereafter dispersed into the insular regions.   (B, ShDH-B) . ShDH-B () . ShDH-B   .   ShDH-B. ,  ()  ,   .  316, Sh-DH-B, ShDH-B. , ShDH-B. ShDH-B , 1619 , ShDH-B .
40390483|This paper explores the relevance of mushrooms in mythology and daily life among the Jot, an indigenous group inhabiting the rain forests of the Venezuelan Guayana. It is reported here how a personal experience of the author in the field stimulated deeper research into the religious symbolism surrounding mushrooms and their role in Jotif cosmology, ritual, and life dynamics. Different categories of mushroom usage are described, including edible, medicinal, and ritual uses. Mushrooms seem to be more important to the Jot than to most Amazonian groups. Most significantly, certain species of mushrooms are key ingredients in medicinal and ritual preparations used throughout the Jot life cycle in ways that reflect their worldview and mythology.
4252609|Experiments to determine the conditions necessary for room temperature storage of coconut pollen, particularly of the 'Jamaica Tall' variety, are described. Preliminary experiments using the "Speedivac 5 PS freeze-drier" over a wide range of drying times indicated that 15 minutes was better than the longer periods tried, and room temperature storage for periods in excess of three months was recorded. Pre-cooling with dry ice and acetone was found to be unnecessary. Centrifuging during drying lowered drying efficiency and good viability was retained only when initial pollen moisture content was low. The effect of longer drying periods with centrifuging have not yet been investigated. The optimum residual moisture content for successful storage at room temperature was found to be in the range 3.5-10.0%. Germination was sometimes improved by exposing the pollen to moist air for two to four hours. Viable seed has been obtained following pollination with freeze-dried pollen; the results of further test pollinations are to be reported later.
4252023|For centuries the alkaloids of coca leaves have sustained the native of the Andes in their onerous existence, but only recently have the effects of this drug been clinically studied.
4254213|Three native species formerly used as food plants by the Indians of western Canada were analyzed for nutritive value. The species were Indian bread-root (Psoralea esculenta Pursh), squaw-root (Perideridia gairdneri (Hook & Arn.) Mathias), and Jerusalem artichoke (Helianthus tuberosus L. var. subcanescens Gray). Protein scores, which are estimates of protein quality based on egg protein with a value of 100, were: squaw-root, 81; Jerusalem artichoke, 58; and Indian bread-root, 36. Squaw-root proved to be nutritionally the best among the 3 species and could also be a useful source of vitamins A and C and of potassium. Both squaw-root and Indian bread-root are also valuable sources of food energy, and all 3 plants, especially Indian bread-root, are good sources of lysine and therefore good supplements for cereals.
4255217| Data relating to archaeological botany are often omitted or difficult to locate in the standard bibliographic sources of archaeology because the botanical component may be secondary to the principal intent of archaeological publications. Similarly, bibliographic abstracting and indexing services in the natural sciences do not include archaeological journals and monographs. This bibliography is an effort to ameliorate this shortcoming, especially for sources concerned with South America and primarily for the period from 1966 through 1983. /// Datos sobre la botnica arqueolgica estn frecuentamente ausentes o son dificiles de localizar en los recursos bibliogrficos de arqueologa por razn de la importancia inferior de los datos botnicos en esta literatura. Igualmente, recursos bibliogrficos en las ciencias naturales no incluyen revistas ni monografas arqueolgicas. Por el medio de este bibliografa tratamos de mejorar esta situacin especialmente en el caso de Amrica del Sur en el periodo entre 1966 y 1983. 
4256908| An ethnobotanical survey of practicing dyers in the biodiversity rich ecosystems of Sierra Leone and of the literature was conducted on the common plant species used to produce natural dyes. In addition, the methods used to obtain these dyes and to dye fabric, together with the techniques used to produce various patterns on fabric were investigated. Although the thriving dye industry is now predominantly serviced by synthetic dyes, the knowledge of the plants used still survives among some dyers, who use plant dyes to some extent. However this indigenous knowledge is rapidly being lost as increasingly less of it is being passed on to succeeding generations. Several plants used in the dyeing process are documented, together with their taxonomic characteristics; local names; how the dyes are produced and fabric dyed; the colors obtained; in addition to how various patterns are designed. Sustainable utilization of this important renewable natural resource is discussed. /// Cette tude ethnobotanique porte sur les teinturiers exerant en Sierra Leone, pays dot d'cosystmes riches en biodiversit, et recense les espces vgtales souvent utilises dans la production de teintures naturelles, ainsi que les publications y affrentes. De plus, elle examine les mthodes d'extraction des teintures, de coloration des tissus et de cration des divers motifs. Bien que cette industrie florissante utilise principalement des teintures synthtiques, certains teinturiers connaissent encore les plantes servant  produire des teintures naturelles. Mais ce savoir disparat rapidement, car il est de moins en moins transmis aux gnrations futures. L'tude prsente plusieures plantes utilises dans la fabrication des teintures, ainsi que leurs caractristiques taxinomiques, leurs noms locaux, les mthodes de production des teintures et de teinture des tissus, les couleurs obtenues, et la conception des motifs. Elle envisage enfin l'exploitation durable de cette importante ressource renouvelable. 
4255306| Cyperus esculentus (Cyperaceae) is a very variable species. From a large group of wild, mainly weedy plants, a cultivated group often named chufa, can be segregated by tuber color, reluctance to flower, and short rhizomes. Cultivar status within Cyperus esculentus is proposed for this useful plant. /// Cyperus esculentus ou amande de terre est une espce assez variable. Un groupe cultiv, souvent nomm chufa, diffre d'un groupe large non-cultiv  cause de la couleur des tubercules, floraison tardive ou absente, et rhizomes trs courts. Il est propos  donner cette plante utile la position de cultivar. 
4287788|The aqueous extract of witch hazel twigs has long been an American household liniment, but only three concerns manufacture it today, producing over half a million gallons annually. The more concentrated tannin-containing alcoholic extract from leaves and bark is compounded into styptic remedies.
4252834|The "supply-demand" situation for wood in the United States is reviewed. In the immediate future, no shortage of wood is expected, but there is some disagreement about whether or not we will face shortages by the year 2000. The concept of multiple use and the element of time in the production function further complicate an already complicated planning problem. Increased ability to (1) modify site (use of fertilizers, insect, disease, and fire control), (2) develop improved trees, (3) use mechanized equipment, and (4) develop better information and analytical methods as aids in decision making will mean a continuing shift away from our previous ideas about wood as a wild resource.
4256180| Fifty seven percent of the 138 cultivated plant species present in Amazonia at contact probably originated in the Amazon Basin and another 27% originated in lowland northern South America. The relationship between probable indigenous human population density and resultant agricultural intensification and crop diversity is used to propose the existence of a mosaic of crop genetic resource concentrations in Amazonia at contact, including two centers of diversity, four outlying minor centers, and five regions of diversity. This methodology is extrapolated to present a synthesis of South American crop genetic biogeography at contact. /// Cinquenta e sete por cento das 138 espcies cultivadas na Amaznia no momento do contato provavelmente originaram na bacia amaznica e mais 27% originaram nas terras baixas do norte de Amrica do Sul. A relao entre a densidade populacional indgena hipottica e a intensificao agrcola e a diversidade gentica dos cultivos resultantes  usada para propor a existncia de um mosaico de concentraes de recursos genticos na Amaznia no momento de contato, incluindo dois centros de diversidade, quatro centros perifricos menores, e cinco regies de diversidade. A mesma metodologia  extrapolada para apresentar uma sntese da biogeografia da diversidade gentica dos cultivos na Amrica do Sul no momento de contato. 
4255617| This study concerns the knowledge and selection of biological diversity of maize (Zea mays) within its center of domestication in Mesoamerica. Maize farmers in central Chiapas of Southern Mxico keep local varieties (landraces) belonging to six races and four race mixtures. Fifteen local varieties are recognized. In spite of widespread adoption of a modern, high yielding variety, maize farmers continue to select local varieties for specific soils and because of agronomic and use criteria. Farmers maintain maize varieties primarily through seed selection. Spatial and temporal separation do not seem sufficient to maintain varieties. The management of improved varieties can lead from a uniform population to a heterogeneous one as hybridization with local maize populations occurs. / Este estudio trata sobre el conocimiento y la seleccin de la diversidad biolgica de maz (Zea mays) en su centro de domesticacin en Mesoamerica. Pequeos productores de maz en la parte central del Estado de Chiapas en el sureste de Mxico mantienen variedades pertenecientes a seis razas y cuatro mezclas raciales. Se reconocen quince variedades locales. A pesar de la adopcin de variedades mejoradas de alto rendimiento, estos agricultores continan seleccionando variedades locales para suelos particulares y debido a criterios agronmicos y de uso. Estos agricultores mantienen sus variedades de maz atravs the la seleccin de la semilla. La separacin espacial y temporal no parecen ser suficientes para mantener estas variedades. El manejo de las variedades mejoradas puede conducir de una poblacin uniforme a una heterognea en la medida que occurre una hibridazacin con las poblaciones locales de maz. 
4251862|A seaweed product of ever-increasing importance, half a million pounds of which are annually used in the United States in foods, medicines, cosmetics, dentistry and other industrial operations.
4287893|Jute fibre is the world's principal material in manufacturing coarse textile for conversion into sacking and canvas. It enters also into the production of upholstery, rugs, carpets and roofing fabrics. Secondary products are food from its tender shoots, medicines from its dried leaves, fuel and paper from its stems, and oil from its seeds.
4252991|A screening program of tropical plants for unusual taste properties gave some leads that suggested the need for further laboratory evaluation and exploration to determine their economic importance. Taste-modifying substances were of interest for applications in some food and pharmaceutical uses. Intensely sweet substances of superior taste quality were sought for applications in dietetic foods. Plants that were selected for further research were Synsepalum dulcificum Daniell, Dioscoreophyllum cumminsii Diels, and Thaumatococcus daniellii Benth.
4287917|Like occasional other articles in Economic Botany, this one is little concerned with botany or plant utilization. Instead, it is a study in agricultural economics and social development in a part of the world where plant products, long produced under colonial management, have been significant items in development.
4255547| Lycianthes moziniana is an agrestic (weedy) perennial encouraged by traditional farmers for its edible, sweet-tasting fruits. This species is endemic to the Mexican highland plateau and Oaxaca where the ethnotaxonomic and ethnohistoric data reflect a long-standing relationship with human populations. Today, the fruits of this plant are used for domestic consumption, small-scale commercialization, and ceremonial purposes. To ensure the production of fruits, traditional farmers afford the plants a special management which has evolutionary repercussions. Recently, modern agricultural practices have placed this species in danger of extinction. Preliminary chemical analyses and yield data suggest that L. moziniana is particularly well-suited for development as a "new" crop for Mexico. / Lycianthes moziniana es una planta arvense auspiciada por agricultores tradicionales para aprovechar sus frutos comestibles de sabor dulce. Esta especie es endmica al altiplano mexicano y Oaxaca donde la evidencia etnobotnica y etnohistrica indica una larga interaccin con poblaciones humanas. Hoy en da, los frutos de esta planta estan utilizados para consumo domstico, comercializacin a pequea escala, y propsitos ceremoniales. Para asegurar la produccin de estos frutos, agricultores tradicionales proporcionan a las plantas un manejo especial el cual tiene repercusiones evolutivas. Ultimamente, prcticas agrcolas modernas han favorecido la eliminacin de esta y todas las dems arvenses, y han puesto L. moziniana en peligro de extincin. Anlisis qumicos proximales y datos de rendimiento sugieren que L. moziniana sera apta para consideracin como un cultivo "nuevo." 
4255829| Ethnobotanical information about uses, management and traditional classification of Leucaena esculenta by the Mixtec in Guerrero, Mexico, is presented. This plant is mainly used as human food. Buds of leaves and flowers as well as seeds and young pods are the main edible parts. Size, flavor and digestibility of seeds and pods are shown to be important in the Mixtec classification of Leucaena species and in selection of trees to harvest during gathering. Artificial selection in L. esculenta subsp. esculenta by the Mixtec occurs not only under cultivation, but also in wild populations where people eliminate some individuals while promoting the growth of others with favorable phenotypes. Morphological characters of seeds and pods of individual trees of this subspecies were measured in order to compare phenotypic variation in populations subject to different regimes of management. Samples of trees were analyzed from a) a wild population not affected by intentional disturbances; b) a wild population selectively managed in situ; and c) a sample of cultivated individuals. Ordination methods and analysis of variance were used to examine differences between populations. A marked divergence between the three samples was found, especially between the wild populations managed and unmanaged. The frequency of the phenotypes preferred by people was found to be higher in the wild population in situ managed. Our study confirms that through in situ forms of management, people are able to modify the phenotypic structure of plant populations. Possible routes of plant domestication within plant populations in situ are suggested. /// Se presenta informacin etnobotnica sobre usos, manejo y clasificacin tradicional de L. esculenta por los Mixtecos de Guerrero, Mxico. Esta planta es usada principalmente como alimento humano. Los brotes de hojas y flores, asi como las semillas y vainas inmaduras son las principales partes comestibles. El tamao, el sabor y la digestibilidad de las semillas y vainas son caracteres importantes en la clasificacin Mixteca de las especies de Leucaena, asi como en la eleccin de rboles a cosechar durante la recoleccin. Los Mixtecos efectan seleccin artificial en L. esculenta subsp. esculenta durante su cultivo, pero tambin en poblaciones silvestres, donde los campesinos eliminan algunos individuos y mantienen en pie otros con fenotipos favorables. Se midieron caracteres morfolgicos de semillas y vainas de rboles de esta subespecie con el fin de comparar variabilidad fenotpica en poblaciones sometidas a diferentes formas de manejo. Se analizaron muestras colectadas en rboles de una poblacin silvestre sin aparente perturbacin intencional, de una poblacin silvestre cuyos individuos fueron dejados en pie selectivamente in situ y de una muestra de individuos cultivados. Se utilizaron mtodos de ordenacin y anlisis de varianza para examinar diferencias entre las muestras. Se encontr una marcada divergencia entre las muestras, destacando la divergencia entre las poblaciones silvestres que son manejadas en forma diferente. La frecuencia de los fenotipos preferidos por la gente fue mayor en la poblacin manejada in situ. Esto mostr que a travs de formas de manejo de plantas in situ, la gente es capaz de modificar la estructura fenotpica de las poblaciones vegetales. Se sugieren posibles rutas de domesticacin en poblaciones de plantas in situ. 
4255995| Caryodendron orinocense Karst. (Euphorbiaceae) is an important neotropical, dioecious crop tree providing oil-and protein-rich seeds. Increases in size and number of leaves, flowers, and fruits were estimated for 100 trees in a plantation in costal Ecuador. Height increase was one meter per year-female trees grew less than non-flowering and male individuals. Trees matured at about 4 m height, but flowering and production of fruits remained low until tree height exceeded 8 m. Flowering and leaf production started at the beginning of the rainy season, and flowers were pollinated by large flies. Foliage damage did not seriously reduce leaf number nor fruit production. The plantation studied yielded 150 kg seeds per hectare per year. A plantation with 10 m high trees and a sex ratio of nine females per male will produce 500 kg seeds per hectare per year after about 12 years. Production will increase much more in older plantations. /// Caryodendron orinocense Karst. (Euphorbiaceae), es un importante rbol dioico de cultivo neotropical y produce semillas con un alto contenido de aceite y protenas. Se midi el incremento en tamao y cantidad de las hojas, flores y frutos en 100 individuos en una plantacin en la regin costera de Ecuador. El incremento de la altura fue de un metro por ao-los arboles femininas crecieron menos que los individuos sin flores y los arboles masculinos. Aunque los rboles maduran cuando alcanzan 4 m de altura, la floracin y la produccin de frutos permanece baja hasta que el rbol excede los 8 m. La produccin de flores y hojas comenz al principio de la estacin lluviosa, y las flores fueron polinizadas por moscas grandes. El dao en las hojas no reduce seriamente el nmero de hojas o la produccin de frutos. La plantacin estudiada produce 150 kg de semillas por hectrea y por ao. Una plantacin, con rboles de 10 m y una relacin de 9 hembras por macho producir, despus de unos 12 aos, 500 kg de semillas por hectrea y por ao. La produccin se incrementa mucho ms en plantaciones ms antiguas. 
40390491|Ethnomycological investigation was carried out in Burkina Faso, West Africa, using standardized interviews focused on 40 representative mushroom species assembled in a traveling herbarium (photographs plus preserved specimens). A total of 540 informants from 18 localities representing three main ethnic groupsMos, Bobo, and Gouinwere interviewed, though the bulk of those interviewed were Mos (or Mossi) from the more populous central region of the country. Among the study species, as many as 24 were considered edible by the different ethnic groups; a few medicinal uses also were noted. The edibility of a common Chlorophyllum species is confirmed for the three ethnic groups. Mushroom nomenclature is not well developed in any of the three groups as evidenced by the fact that many mushrooms, including some common edible species, do not appear to have specific local names, but are instead simply referred to by a general term for "mushroom." Preliminary observations about inter-ethnic variation in recognition, naming, and appreciation of mushrooms are noted. Older people recognized many more mushroom species than did younger people, and women appeared to be slightly more knowledgeable about mushrooms than men. The most important finding is that the gathering and consumption of wild edible mushrooms seems to be dying out in Burkina Faso, especially in the central part of the country, apparently because of declining mushroom populations resulting from disappearing forest habitats.
4254960|Bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) landraces in northern Malawi were found to be heterogeneous for many qualitative and quantitative traits. An earlier 21-character evaluation of 25 lines in 15 landraces found significant differences in all characters among lines and among landraces. The present study has concentrated on two factors that are likely to be involved in the generation and maintenance of this heterogeneity: seed-handling practices and natural outcrossing. Seed-handling practices during harvest, storage, and marketing at the village, local market, and national levels were found to result in physical and usually nonselective mixing of many seed types. Experiments determined that outcrossing does occur at a low level among beans in Malawi and can result in the generation of many new seed phenotypes. A scenario was developed integrating seed-handling practices and outcrossing that lays a foundation for understanding the generation and maintenance of variability in these bean landraces. The process whereby landrace heterogeneity arises and the ways it is maintained, if understood, should assist plant breeders in the development of improved germplasm for subsistence farmers.
4252362|Spanish needles (Bidens pilosa L.) is a common and pestiferous weed in nearly all tropical and subtropical areas. While it is primarily regarded as a subject for eradication, it has usefulness as a cover crop and fodder and source of nectar for honeybees. It is employed to some extent in native medicine and as food. Culinary trials of B. pilosa var. radiata in South Florida indicate that the young shoots of this and other varieties might well be more widely eaten as cooked greens.
4252059|Resistance toward eight fungal, four virus two nematode and one parasitic seed-plant disease have almost exclusively occupied the attention of tobacco breeders, and improvement in quality has so far received only negligible consideration.
4255745| Sacred groves in the Moyamba District of Sierra Leone were assessed for their value to local herbalists and traditional folk medicine practitioners of the Kpaa Mende people. Herbalists (tufablaa) collecting in 23 sacred groves were interviewed regarding their general knowledge of medicinal plants, and their perceptions regarding changes in the occurrence of medicinal plants. Over 75 medicinal plant remedies are currently in use among the Kpaa Mende, with some plants reported here for the first time in terms of their medicinal uses in Sierra Leone. A significant feature of Kpaa Mende ethnobotany is the employment of 2 or more kinds of plants in combination as a remedy for particular afflictions. The discovery of rare and uncommon plants in the groves and their medicinal uses are discussed in terms of the role of the sacred groves in medicinal plant conservation. /// Des bosquets sacrs du district de Moyamba, Sierra Leone, furent valus quant  leur utilit aux herboristes locaux et aux practiciens de mdicine populaire du peuple Kpaa Mende. Des herboristes (tufablaa) rcoltant dans 23 bosquets sacrs furent interrogs sur leur connaissance gnrale des plantes mdicinales et sur leurs impressions concernant les changements survenus  la flore mdicinale. Plus de soixante-quinze remdes d'origine vgtale sont actuellement utiliss par les Kpaa Mende, quelques unes de ces plantes sont ici reconnues pour la premire fois, pour leur valeur mdicinale au Sierra Leone. Un aspect significatif de l'ethnobotanique des Kpaa Mende est l'utilisation combine de deux ou plusiers types de plantes pour gurir certains maux. La dcouverte de plantes rares ou peu frquentes dans les bosquets, ainsi que leur utilit mdicinale, amnent  discutir le rle des bosquets sacrs dans la conservation des plantes mdicinales. 
4255339| Ipomoea littoralis (Convolvulaceae), a member of Ipomoea section Batatas, is the only species of the section native and still endemic to the Old World. In spite of confusion in the literature, the correct name for the species is I. littoralis. Plants with which I. littoralis has been confused are endemic to Australia and are properly called I. gracilis. These two names apply to species belonging to different sections of Ipomoea. Ipomoea littoralis probably shares a common ancestor with I. ramosissima of the neotropics. Data from a variety of sources, including common association with people and the many vernacular names for the plants, indicate that they are not only wild but are also encouraged and even cultivated. /// Ipomoea littoralis, una especie del viejo mundo que pertenece a la seccin Batatas de Ipomoea, es la nica de la seccin que es nativa y an endmica a ese hemisferio. A pesar de la confusin en la literatura, el nombre correcto para la especie es I. littoralis. Plantas con las cuales I. littoralis ha sido confundida son endmicas a Australia y deben ser llamadas I. gracilis. Estos dos nombres se aplican a especies pertenecientes a dos secciones distintas de Ipomoea. Probablamente I. littoralis tiene un ancestro en comn con I. ramosissima de los neotrpicos. Datos de una variedad de fuentes, incluyendo un asociacin comn con el hombre y muchos nombres vulgares para las especies, indican que no solamente son silvestres pero tambin el hombre las fomenta e incluso las cultiva. 
40686812|This study reports on new botanical evidence from the north-central coast of Peru. The material dates to the Late Intermediate Period (approximately CE 1100-1435) and is from archaeological excavation at the sites of Rontoy, Quipico, and Chambara located in the Huaura Valley. All three sites belong to what has been defined as the Chancay culture. The diversity of species present is consistent with the plants utilized in the region beginning in the Preceramic Period. Data also show differential distribution of plant taxa by site that cannot be explained by ecological zone or site location. El presente estudio reporta nueva evidencia botnica recuperada en la costa norte-central de Per. Los materiales corresponden al periodo Intermedio Tardo (aproximadamente entre A. D. 1100-1435) y provienen de las excavaciones arqueolgicas en los sitios Rontoy, Quipico, and Chambara en el Valle de Huaura. Los tres sitios pertenecen a lo que ha sido definido como la cultura Chancay. La diversidad de especies encontrada es consistente con las plantas utilizadas en la regin desde el periodo Pre-cermico. Esta informacin tambin muestra una distriucin diferencial en las especies de plantas analizadas en cada sitio, la cual no puede ser explicada como consecuencia de la zona ecolgica o la ubicacin de cada uno de los asentamientos.
4254989|The basket-weaving industry on the edge of the Okavango Swamps in northwestern Botswana is dependent on natural populations of the palm Hyphaene petersiana. Commercialization of the basket industry has led to changes in the population structure of the palms. The mean size of palm leaves has decreased and the resource has been depleted in the vicinity of swamp villages. Plants used to dye the palm fibres for basketry are becoming scarce. Through use of alternative raw materials and development of new crafts both natural resources and the incomes of the village craftspeople could be sustained.
4287796|About 65 million pounds of mushrooms-all of one species, Agaricus campestris-are annually cultivated in the United States on specially prepared media in the near darkness of specially erected sheds. Recent developments in the technique of this highly specialized industry are reviewed in this article.
4255253| Thirty-eight cultures of sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor, Poaceae) at dead-ripe stage showed that the cultures IS 6962, IS 9889, PR 4579, and IS 707 contained higher amounts of total sugars per 100 ml of extractable juice. But total sugar yield was found to be high (> 200 kg/ha) in IS 715, IS 724, IS 6962, and IS 9901. Though upper internodes contained comparatively higher sugar content than the bottom internodes, the seventh internode had the maximum. A highly positive correlation (+0.9828) was found to exist between total sugars and sucrose in the internodes. Fermentation of juice from IS 6962 yielded 240 litre of alcohol/ha. Roasted chickpea candies prepared from syrup of 73 brix resembled that from jaggery in taste and flavour. 
4255566| Reducing losses from pod shatter is a major goal of most lentil (Lens culinaris) improvement programs, however, genetic variability is limited. Recently, a slashed pod trait was suggested to have potential value for reducing losses from shattering, but little was known about the trait. In this study we determined the anatomical features which were associated with the slashed pod trait. Histological specimens from 'Brewer' lentil (normal pods) and from germplasm lines expressing the slashed pod trait were compared to each other and to specimens from normal and reduced pod parchment pea (Pisum sativum) lines. Reduced parchment pea pods had less sclerenchyma tissue and fewer fibers than pea pods with normal parchment, but all lentil pods examined had comparable sclerenchyma tissue with similar quantities of fiber. The slashed pod trait was not the result of reduced sclerenchyma tissue (parchment) as had been previously suggested. Apparently, the slashed pod trait resulted from the stresses which develop between fiber cells within the sclerenchyma layer of the pod wall during pod maturation and drying. The trait had little effect on quality of seeds for human utilization in the environments tested but may have an undesirable effect in other environments. Although seed loss due to shatter appeared to be decreased in pods exhibiting the trait, the uncertainty of expression due to environmental influences makes the trait an unlikely candidate for use in lentil improvement programs. / La reduction des prtes des aux clatements des gousses est un objectif principal dans la plupart des programmes d'amlioration de la lentille (Lens culinaris). Cependant, la variabilit gntique lie  ce caractre est trs limite. Recement, il a t sugger que le caractre li  la fissure de la chaire des gousses pourrait jouer un rle potentiel dans la reduction des prtes des aux clatements des gousses. Cependant, les tudes sur ce caractre sont trs limites. Durant la presente tude, nous avous determin les caractristiques anatomiques qui ont t associes  la fissure des gousses. Des spcimens histologiques de la variet de lentille 'Brewer' ( gousse normales) ont t compars, d'une part,  des spcimens provenant de plusieures lignes du germoplasm de lentille qui prsentent le caractre de fissure des gousses et d'autre part,  des spcimens de pois (Pisum sativum) normaux et/ou presentant des gousses  parchemin reduit. Chez le pois, les gousses  parchemin reduit avaient moins de sclerenchym et moins de fibre que les gousses normales. Cependant, toutes les gousses de la lentille examines prsentaient des tissues sclerenchymatiques comparables avec des quantits semblables de fibre. Contrairement  ce qui a t report auparavant, la fissure cause sur les gousesses de lentille n'apparait pas de a une reduction dans le parchemin, mais plutt resulte des pressions produites entre les cellules fibreuses an niveau de la couche sclerenchymatique de la chaire de la gousses durant sa maturation et desschement. Dans les conditions environmentales essayes, la fissure cause aux gousses avait un peu d'effet sur la qualit de graines destines  la consommation humaine. Malgr que les prtes des graines des aux clatements des gousses apparaissent reduites chez les gousses fissures, l'uncertitude de l'expression  cause des influences envirionmentales fait du caractre de fissure un condidat unprobable pour son utilisation dans les progammes d'amlioration de la lentille. 
4287955|More than sixty species of red algae have been described as containing significant quantities of polysaccharide hydrocolloids. There seem to be three major types of these polysaccharides. It is the purpose of this paper to determine the degree of correlation between these and the morphological and reproductive criteria used to establish the groups of algae.
4252423|Whether by direct intent or as the result of ignorance, the source-areas for many of the most common spices were unfamiliar to Europe before 1500. Modern botanical knowledge has clarified this uncertainty in the case of most spices, and today it is possible to use this knowledge in the interpretation of the historical record.
4252650|For 20 centuries, vegetable fibers from various sources have been converted into thin sheets for use in trade, communications, law, and even for shelter. Cotton and linen rags were the first fibrous raw materials to acquire widespread status in paper making, and they are still needed for specialty products. Increasing demands for paper ultimately surpassed the availability of rags, so that other sources of fiber were sought. About the year 1800, numerous other materials of agricultural origin began to come into use somewhat temporarily. Although woods have become the prime source of paper making fibers during the last 100-125 years, annual plant fibers retain their importance. The technical feasibility of non-woody materials is substantiated by more than 300 paper mills throughout the world that use such raw materials. Both necessity and special properties account for their use. The potential for various non-woody fibrous plants is being investigated intensively by the United States Department of Agriculture's Agricultural Research Service, to discover new crops that might have practical significance in the national agricultural program and in the commercial production of paper.
4253061|There is urgent need for surveying wild populations of Brassica spp. for additional genes for resistance to Plasmodiophora brassicae. The gene centers of the genus Brassica and of cultivated B. oleracea are in the western Mediterranean area. Evidence from early records of the disease and the pattern of its spread indicate that the gene center of the pathogen may also be in this region. This area is suggested, therefore, as the place to search in wild Brassica populations for genes for resistance to P. brassicae. The rapid spread of the disease throughout the world has been expedited by cultivation of the turnip.
4287936|The proteolytic enzymes in this plant product, not yet in commercial production, may find application, as do similar agents from other sources, in the bating of hides, tenderizing of meat, chill-proofing of beer and other directions suggested in this article.
4252043|From April, 1942, through August, 1944, when the world's great source of rubber in Malaya and adjacent areas was not available, the United States obtained 32% of its needs from tropical American countries, 15% from Liberia and the remainder from Ceylon, India and African sources other than Liberia.
4254582|Solanum hygrothermicum Ochoa, a new potato species, is described. This species is cultivated by some native inhabitants of the warm humid lowlands of Peru, such as the Campas and Aguarunas in the central Amazon basin and Machigangas in southeastern Peru. Cultivation is limited only to some members of the tribes. The species belongs to series Tuberosa and has 2n = 4x = 48 chromosomes. It is the only potato cultivated under the climatic regime of the warm rainforest in the Peruvian Amazon basin, where it is native. Unfortunately, this rare potato is becoming extinct.
4287820|Among these proteins, those of soybean are isolated in the United States to the extent of about 30 million pounds annually, more than half of which are used in pigment coating of paper. Others, also discussed in this article, are those derived from the seed of flax, sunflower, castor, peanut, cottonseed and corn.
4251977|Control of market diseases of fruits and vegetables involves not only a knowledge of the fungous diseases affecting these edibles, but also the application of knowledge concerning their physiology through temperature control during transit.
4287838|The most economical method of obtaining potable water from sea water is distillation. This method would be more economical if scale formation in evaporators could be eliminated. The present article suggests a completely new and different approach to the problem of eliminating scale in sea water evaporators.
4256936|Homegardens may serve as reservoirs of agro-biodiversity on highly fertile, anthropogenic Amazonian Dark Earth (ADE) soils of the Amazon basin. However, as these soils are used more intensively for market-oriented agriculture, we suspected a decrease in their agro-biodiversity. We present data obtained from surveys on 16 farms where ADE was present in the region of Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil. When farms were separated into two groups by market orientation, species richness on the farms was not significantly influenced by market orientation, but there was less dominance (i.e., more diversity) for homegardens in the low-market orientation group (P < 0.1). The proportion of native species was not affected by market orientation. Hence, while the most market-oriented farms retained high species richness, homegardens located on them contained higher proportions of commercially interesting species.
4252858|Analyses were made of seeds and plant parts of 9 species of Cienfuegosia, 4 species of Thespesia, and 1 species of Kokia for content of gossypol and oil. The seeds of Cienfuegosia were nearly free of gossypol; the other plant parts contained much larger quantities. The desirability of a similar condition in cultivated cottons is discussed.
4254476|Paspalum scrobiculatum is widely distributed in damp habitats across the Old World tropics. It is harvested as a wild cereal in west Africa and in India. The species was domesticated in India some 3,000 yr ago. It is grown in India from Kerala and Tamil Nadu in the south, to Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal in the north. Kodo millet is variable but lacks racial differentiation. The species was apparently domesticated across its range of present-day cultivation. Hybridization with wild P. scrobiculatum, which commonly invades fields of kodo millet, obscures racial differentiation. Weedy kodo is harvested with the crop, making it difficult to distinguish wild and cultivated complexes of P. scrobiculatum. Wild, weed and cultivated kinds merge in all characters studied.
4255690| Caryocar brasiliense Camb. is a member of the Central and South American family Caryocaraceae. Most species of the family are found in tropical rainforests and are economically valuable. C. brasiliense is the main representative in the Brazilian cerrados and grows naturally wherever this type of vegetation is found. Ecologically, the species plays a significant role in the cerrado's composition. The fruits and seeds are over-exploited due to their wide range of uses, and questions have been raised about whether the intensive exploitation poses any threat to the conservation of the species. / Caryocar brasiliense Camb.  uma espcie membra da famlia Caryocaraceae. A famlia se distribui pelas Amricas do Sul e Central, geralmente nas florestas tropicais, e as espcies tem, em sua maioria, bom valor econmico. C. brasiliense  a principal representante da famlia nos cerrados brasileiros e cresce naturalmente por toda sua extenso. A espcie se mostra significativamente frequente em anlises de composio florstica. O fruto e semente so intensamente explorados devido  larga variedade de usos a eles dados e j se questiona quais implicaes desfavorveis  conservao da espcie podem advir ante esta crescente explorao. 
4251921|Commercial production of Turkish varieties of tobacco in the United States is still a thing of the future, but investigations in that direction are being conducted.
4253567|The objective of this investigation was to study (a) the yield components of sesame under different population densities and (b) their association with seed yield per unit area. The branched, non-shattering variety "Baco" was used. Rows were 60 cm apart and spacing between plants on the row was 2.5, 7.5, 15.0, 22.5, or 30.0 cm. Plant height and height of first fruit were only slightly affected by changes in plant density. More branches were produced at lower densities. Capsule length was smaller and number of seeds was lower only at the 2.5 cm spacing. Number of capsules and seed yield per plant increased in wider spacings. Number of capsules and seed yield per unit area decreased at spacings wider than 7.5 cm. Yield of seed per unit area was positively and significantly correlated with plant height, number of primary branches, number of capsules per plant, number of seeds per capsule, seed weight, seed yield per plant and number of capsules per unit area.
4254015|Fruits and/or leaves of 31 species of Solanum that grow in India have been assayed for total alkaloid content and the presnce of solasodine in them has been determined by TLC. This survey revealed that 12 species contained solasodine and that S. khasianum, S. elaeagnifolium, S. auriculatum and S. giganteum contained sufficient quantity of total alkaloid to warrant further studies on these plants in order to determine whether they could be developed as sources of raw materials for the steroid industry.
4252421| Seeds from 158 species of 39 plant families were examined for --diaminobutyric acid, which has been isolated from seed of Lathyrus sylvestris and L. latifolius by other investigators. The presence of the compound in large amounts in L. sylvestris was confirmed. Possible trace amounts ranging from 0.03 to 0.29% of the total nitrogen was found in six other Lathyrus species and from six species of related genera. Trace amounts ranging from 0.01 to 0.07% of the total nitrogen were found in 18 additional species, and none of the compound was found in the remaining 65. Evidence for the presence of the neuroactive substance was based on an elution peak occurring in the same position as that of an authentic sample. 
4255176| Creeping indigo, Indigofera spicata, while only a minor source of dye, has been much planted for cover, green manure, and erosion control in coffee, tea, and rubber plantations in warm parts of the Old World. It is palatable, even enticing, to most grazing animals. Feeding tests at the University of Florida (1933-1934) demonstrated toxicity to rabbits. Pasture trials in Hawaii were promising for 10 yr, but when the plant amounted to 50% of the feed (1949-1950) it proved toxic to cattle, sheep, goats, and fowl. The deep-rooted weed, with yard-long, prostrate runners, has become naturalized from Gainesville southward and has heavily invaded many pastures in southern Florida, especially on limestone. High intake is now associated with a fatal CNS syndrome in local horses, formerly linked by some to agricultural pesticides. The leaves and seeds contain indospicine, a toxic amino acid; the toxin was formerly reported to be -nitropropionic acid. Some diploid strains in Africa are said to be non-toxic. /// Creeping Indigo, Indigofera spicata, nur eine minimale menge der farbmittels, wird sehr oft als dnger und fr erosionszweule in kaffee, tee, und gummibaum plantagen der warmen gebiete der Welt gepflanzt. Es ist schmackhaft und verlockend fr die meisten grasenden Tiere. Fress-versuche in der Universitat von Florida (1933-1934) erweisten sich giftig fr Hasen. Weiden versuche in Hawaii erweisten sich zwar die ersten 10 Jahre positiv, doch danach wurden 50% der Tiere: Vieh, Ziegen, Schafe und Geflieder vergifted. Das tief-gewurzelte, mit ellenlange auslaufen unkraut ist sehr im sden von Gainesville verbreitet, vor allem in weiden mit viel sandstein. Es ist tdlich fur pferde der gegend wenn der konsum dieser pflanze zu hoch gert, und was frher zu dem CNS syndrom fhrte, zwar die sprhmittel, wird jetzt diesem unkraut zugeschulded. Die Bltter und Samen enthalten indospicine, ein giftiges amino acid. Damals hatte man frher gesagt als -nitropropionic acid zu sein. Einige Linien in Afrika werden nicht als giftig erkannt. 
4287931|Three of the eleven species of jasmine commonly cultivated in India are the principal sources of jasmine perfume, widely used in the manufacture of hair oils.
4255524| The ritual production and usage of the powder produced from the rhizomes of Curcuma longa L., on the tropical Polynesian island of Rotuma, prior to European contact was integral in every aspect of life, from birth to death and possibly held religious significance. The orange powder called "mena" was formerly produced on a large scale involving entire villages and several months of preparation. The mena (dry powder) and a paint (powder mixed with coconut oil) were used medicinally both internally and externally. The powder was sprinkled on the shoulders of dancers while performing the traditional dance called the maka. This usage is the only tradition involving mena which is still widely practiced, although it has been modified with the substitution of imported Gucci powder from Europe. Possible cultural implications of the substitution and subsequent loss of this traditional plant product are discussed. / E t mot meamea het on asa Rotuma famori garua 'k ti' pu mena, ka fafisi kat semente surum ra se tmot. Mena ne e oit on asa raga (Curcuma longa L.) E on mumua, famori re meanta ti' pu. Famr atakoa ne pure'agta tau ' roa ne au het ne iris la re meanta la haitauag ma siau. Mena famori garue 'k la vai mamosa ne hoisoliag ma lolo. Vite, la pou la iom ne la sarau'k se 'ou 'uli. Mena, famori garua'k e on mumua hn se agfak rotu ma te la sui'akia e la loag ne puk hete'is. Mena la tu se uam on famori 'e av ne iris makmaka, ma te es ao het ne famori po ma garua'k meanta, ka 'e on i'i iris garua'k Gucci powder (kefkefa) e Europa (honua fifisi). Puk hete'is la feag 'k av het ne famori kamat, la ma 'k oris aga ma 'on es ne vite. 
41242926|Traditional vegetables in many African rural areas are an important part of the daily diet and economy but have been poorly documented until recently. We undertook a survey in Benin on the diversity and patterns of use of traditional vegetables by 18 sociolinguistic groups in the three major phytogeographical regions. Major groups include the Yoruba-Nagot, Fon, Bariba, Adja, Cotafon, and Ditammari. Focus groups and field visits were conducted in 49 villages. Species richness at the country level and in phytogeographical regions was estimated using species accumulation curves. Our results indicated that 245 species belonging to 62 families are used as vegetable resources all over the country. The most frequently used families include Amaranthaceae, Asteraceae, Cucurbitaceae, and Leguminoseae. About 80% of collected vegetables are wild resources; only 19% were clearly under cultivation. Herbs were the most widely consumed life form. The Guinean and the Sudanian regions exhibit similar species richness while in the Sudano-Guinean region vegetable richness is higher. The use of a species as a vegetable depends not only on socio-cultural attributes but also on geographical occurrence. Based on this inventory, we identified needs for further research and activities for both the conservation and promotion of traditional vegetables. Les lgumes traditionnels reprsentent une part importante dans le rgime alimentaire quotidien et l'conomie des communauts rurales en Afrique. Cependant, ils ont t ngligs par la recherche jusqu' rcemment. Au Bnin, nous avons entrepris un inventaire de la diversit et des types d'usage des lgumes traditionnels au niveau de 18 groupes sociolinguistiques, dans les trois grandes zones phytogographiques du pays. Les groupes linguistiques enqutes comprennent les Yoruba-Nagot, Fon, Bariba, Adja, Cotafon, et Ditammari. Des entretiens de groupes et visites de terrain ont t organiss dans 49 villages. La richesse spcifique au niveau national et au niveau des zones phytogographiques a t estime par la mthode de courbes d'accumulation spcifique. Nos rsultats indiquent que 245 espces appartenant  62 familles de plantes sont exploites comme lgumes au niveau national. Les familles frquemment utilises sont les Amaranthaceae, Asteraceae, Cucurbitaceae, et les Leguminoseae. Environ 80% des lgumes collects sont des ressources sauvages et seulement 19% sont clairement cultivs. Les herbaces reprsentent la majeur partie des lgumes. Les zones Guinenne et Soudanienne prsentent des richesses spcifiques similaires, tandis que la richesse spcifique de lgumes est suprieure dans la zone Soudano-Guinenne. L'utilisation d'une espce comme lgume dpend non seulement des attributs socioculturels mais aussi de la distribution gographique des especes. En se basant sur cet inventaire nous avons identifi les besoins de recherche et les actions de conservation et aussi de promotion des lgumes traditionnels.
41001175|This paper evaluates the impacts of traditional management on the population dynamics of Agave marmorat, a multipurpose, useful species that is dominant in the Zapotitln Salinas Valley, Puebla, Mexico. During 2002-2003 and 2003-2004, we constructed matrix models for two populationsone un managed, the other subject to plant extraction and cutting of flowering stalks. We also conducted prospective (elasticity) and retrospective (life table response experiments) analyses. Overall, the unmanaged population had higher finite rates of increase () than the managed one. This variation in  was the result of a decrease in the individual growth and fecundity in the managed population. Survival and growth were the demographic processes with the highest contribution to  in the unmanaged population, while survival was the most important in the managed one. Our results suggest that management and plant extraction practices could be having negative effects on the population dynamics of this plant species. Recommendations are provided in order to promote positive effects on its vital rates and regeneration capacity. Este trabajo tuvo como objetivo evaluar el impacto del manejo tradicional en la dinmica de poblaciones de Agave marmorata, una especie til multipropsito dominante en el Valle de Zapotitln Salinas, Puebla Mxico. Durante 2002-2003 y 2003-2004, se construy un modelo matricial para dos poblaciones, una no manejada y otra sujeta a extraccin y corte de inflorescencias. Tambin se llevaron a cabo anlisis prospectivos (elasticidad) y retrospectivos (experimentos de respuesta de tablas de vida). En trminos generales, la poblacin no manejada tuvo tasas finitas de crecimiento () ms altas que la manejada. Esta variacin de  fue resultado de un decremento in el crecimiento y fecundidad individual en la poblacin manejada. La sobrevivencia y el crecimiento fueron los procesos demogrficos con la ms alta contribucin al valor de  en la poblacin no manejada, mientras que la sobrevivencia fue el ms importante en la poblacin manejada. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las prcticas de manejo y extraccin pudieran tener efectos negativos en la dinmica poblacional de esta especie vegetal. Se proponen algunas recomendaciones con el objeto de promover efectos positivos en sus tasas vitales y capacidad de regeneracin.
41408236|Sunflower (Helianthus annuus L) has played a major role in the evolution of agricultural systems in the Americas. The discovery of ancient domesticated remains from archaeological deposits in pre-Columbian Mexico offers new dimensions to widely accepted viewpoints on the domestication pattern of H. annuus. Although American sunflower populations north of Mexico have been examined extensively, Mexican indigenous domesticated landraces have not been studied in any detail. In this study, we morphologically assessed wild and domesticated sunflower achenes from Mexico and compared them to similar datasets from eastern North America. Additionally, we evaluated the utility of four computer-assisted shape measurements in discriminating between wild and domesticated sunflower achenes (fruits) and compared variation in achene size among modern wild and cultivated populations from both Mexico and the U. S. We found that, of the shape parameters tested, none were informative in distinguishing wild achenes from domesticated varieties. Subsequent size analysis, using conventional parameters of length, width, and thickness, showed that modern wild populations from Mexico had smaller achenes compared to modern populations from eastern North America. Domesticated achenes unearthed from Mexican archaeological sites, however, were significantly larger than the early domesticated specimens recovered from eastern North America. Our methodological results indicate that variation in archaeological sunflower achenes is better described by conventional size parameters rather than computerized shape analysis. El girasol (Helianthus annuus L.) ha jugado un parte importante en la evolucin de los sistemas agrcolas en las Americas. El descubrimiento de restos domsticos antiguos de yacimientos arqueolgicos en el Mxico precolombino ofrece nuevas dimensiones a los puntos de vista ampliamente aceptados en el patrn de domesticacin de H. annuus. Aunque las poblaciones de girasol de Mxico y Estados Unidos de Amrica (EUA) han sido examinadas ampliamente, los restos arqueolgicos domsticos de las razas indgenas de Mxico no han sido estudiados en detalle. En este estudio, se evaluaron morfolgicamente aquenios de girasol silvestre y domesticado de Mxico y se compararon con conjuntos de datos similares del este de EUA. Adems, se evalu la utilidad de cuatro mediciones de forma asistidas por computador en la discriminacin entre los aquenios (frutos) de girasol silvestre y domesticado adems la variacin en comparacin de tamao entre los aquenios modernos de poblaciones silvestres y cultivadas de Mxico y los EUA. Se encontr que de los parmetros probados ninguno fue determinante para distinguir entre los aquenios silvestres y las variedades domesticadas. El anlisis de tamao, utilizando por los parmetros convencionales de la longitud, anchura y espesor, mostr que las poblaciones modernas de Mxico presentan aquenios ms pequeos, en comparacin con las poblaciones modernas del Este de EUA. Sin embargo, los aquenios domesticados desenterrados de los sitios arqueolgicosde Mxico fueron significativamente ms grandes que los ejemplares domesticados y recuperados del Este de EUA. Nuestros resultados indican que la variacin metodolgica para aquenios de girasol arqueolgicos est mejor descrita por los parmetros de tamao convencional en lugar del anlisis de la forma informtica.
4255092| Identification, cultivation, chemistry, and uses of nine Vietnamese herbs, hitherto rare or unknown in the United States, are discussed: Gip C (Houttuynia cordata), L Lt (Piper lolot), Rau Rm (Polygonum odoratum), Rau Mung (Ipomoea aquatica), Ng Gai (Eryngium foetidum), Rau Cn (Oenanthe javanica), Cn Dy L (Plectranthus amboinicus), Ta T (Perilla frutescens), and Rau Ng (Limnophila aromatica). 
4254616|A great variety of native and introduced plant species were used as foods, medicines and raw materials by the Rumsen and Mutsun Costanoan peoples of central California. The information presented here has been abstracted from original unpublished field notes recorded during the 1920s and 1930s by John Peabody Harrington, who also directed the collection of some 500 plant specimens. The nature of Harrington's data and their significance for California ethnobotany are described, followed by a summary of information on the ethnographic uses of each plant.
4254988|Most peasant households in Zimbabwe use edible fruits of indigenous woody plants. Deforestation does not significantly affect availability of selected fruits, because people tend not to cut selected trees when clearing land for cultivation. A different range of species is used in the different natural regions of Zimbabwe. Fruit use mainly occurs in the periods of seasonal food stress, even though these seasons are not necessarily the periods of maximum fruit abundance. Wild fruits, often the only source of fruit for households, are used mostly by children. There is a significant trade in wild fruits.
4254879|The chemical composition of the now widespread tropical aquatic fern Salvinia molesta was analysed with regard to its suitability as a source of forage for ruminants. Three different stages of plant growth collected in Kerala, India, were air dried, brought to Germany, and used for Weende analysis, detergent fibre analysis, and the determination of gross energy, amino acids, tannins, and minerals. The concentration of 12.4% crude protein in sand-corrected dry matter (DM) and of some other nutrients in Salvinia is comparable to that in conventional forage. However, the high content of crude ash (17.3% in DM) and of lignin (13.7%) and the presence of tannins (0.93%) may reduce acceptance as well as digestibility and therefore restrict the use of Salvinia as a potential feed source for ruminants.
4251975|The average annual domestic production of mint oils for the past ten years stands at 1,410,000 pounds. This represents a farm value ranging from two to nine million dollars. It is in the production of mint oils that the volatile-oil industry reaches its peak in specialization and mechanization.
27807212|Yaupon holly (Ilex vomitoria Ait.) is a caffeine-containing shrub native to the southeastern United States where its leaves and twigs were traditionally used to prepare a stimulating and healthful beverage by Amerindians and more recent colonists. For a variety of mostly socioeconomic and cultural reasons, widespread consumption of yaupon tea ceased by the late 19th century, but the species is widely used in ornamental horticulture. Given the environmental damage associated with other caffeine crops, we believe that disuse of this species is unfortunate, and we report on traits that consumers may consider valuable. We found that total foliar biomass, caffeine, and antioxidant production all increased with nitrogen fertilization in one common ornamental yaupon cultivar, 'Nana.' Increasing light availability was associated with increased antioxidant activity but not with the decreased caffeine production predicted by the carbon/nutrient balance hypothesis for secondary metabolite production. We also found the highest caffeine concentrations in another yaupon cultivar, 'Pendula,' but suggest that the wide range of chemical variation offered by wild-type yaupon populations renders them more suitable as sources for the development of high caffeine-producing varieties. The results of this study suggest that yaupon is a viable caffeine alternative for North Americans living within its range on the southeastern coastal plain.
4252037|Dates, staple food in the valleys of the Tigris, Euphrates and Nile rivers since the dawn of history, have been established on nearly 6,000 acres in southern California and Arizona.
4256883| Dietary, therapeutical, and other ethnobotanical uses of the wild plants grown in the Beypazari, Aya, and Gdl district towns of Ankara were investigated. Information was collected by oral interviews, with 400 individuals participating in 25 selected sites. The demographic characteristics of the informants were cross-linked with the recorded plant data for purposes of statistical analysis by SPSS software. The results indicated that 82% of the informants recognized the use of wild plants for food and home remedies. Both the breadth and scope of knowledge on the use of wild plants increased significantly with the advancing age of the informants, but there was no significant correlation between the knowledge of the informants and their educational status. Altogether, the authors recorded 192 uses for wild plants in the surveyed area; these emanating from 85 plant species belonging to 31 plant families. Among the most popular uses for wild plants were for medicines (115 citations) or food (70 citations). Only 7 plants fell in the miscellaneous category. 
4287789|Complete isolation of production fields for hybrid corn seed is difficult to attain in our Middle West. When the seed being produced is field corn seed and it is fertilized by other field corns, contamination is difficult to detect and not very serious. But when the seed being grown is of a specialized type, such as popcorn or waxy corn, outcrossing is most detrimental. A practical solution to this isolation problem lies in a unique type of cross-sterility discovered in some of our popcorns.
4254397|Zizania latifolia (Manchurian wild rice), native to eastern Asia, is often infected by the smut fungus, Ustilago esculenta, causing culm enlargement and failure to produce flowers. The enlarged infected culms have been used as a vegetable (gau sun) in China since the 10th century. The occasionally-used name Z. caduciflora is shown to be only a synonym. To facilitate identification of the host, a taxonomic key shows that Z. latifolia differs from and is fully distinct from the American species of Zizania. The nature and structure of the fungus and the history and cultivation of the vegetable are described. As a precaution we propose quarantine of the host and fungus to prevent possible disastrous widespread infection of American wild rices by the fungus.
4252844| Plants of kenaf (Hibiscus cannabinus L.), grown in southern Florida in 1964, yielded significantly more seed when spaced 5 inches apart in 7-inch rows than when spaced farther apart, up to 15  28 inches. Plants grown from seed planted on August 10 yielded significantly more seed than those from seed planted later at 10-day intervals, from August 20 to September 29. A progressive decline in yield was associated with wider plant-and-row spacings and with later plantings. 
4253569|Microscopical pollen analyses of 54 commercial honey samples collected from the major beekeeping areas of Louisiana during 1967-68 showed six dominant pollen types (a dominant type considered as one contributing over 45% of the total grains counted per sample and denoting a unifloral honey). The dominant pollen types and the "bee plant" species associated with each pollen type are identified and described. The pollen types are illustrated with light photomicrographs. The pollen types are in order of importance: Trifolium repens, white clover; Rubus spp., blackberry and/or dewberry; Berchemia scandens, rattan vine; Salix spp., willow; Asteraceae, Sunflower family; and Sapium sebiferum, Chinese tallow tree. White clover and willow were the largest unifloral honey producers in a region including the floodplain and delta of the Mississippi River, and the floodplain of the Red River (the most productive beekeeping area of Louisiana); blackberry and/or dewberry were most significant in the longleaf pine flatwoods and mixed hardwoods in the uplands section on the east side of the Mississippi River; rattan vine was most important in west-central Louisiana in an area consisting originally of pine-oak-hickory uplands and longleaf pine flatwoods; white clover appeared most important in the prairie region of southwest Louisiana.
4252217|The Joshua tree, Yucca brevifolia, is distributed over parts of Arizona, California, Nevada, and Utah. A study of its steroidal sapogenins showed that the leaves contain practically none; the wood, small amounts of smilagenin; the seeds high amounts of hecogenin and tigogenin.
4251875|In addition to tobacco, pyrethrum and the rotenone-bearing plants of the genera Derris and Lonchocarpus, seventeen of which are discussed in this paper, have been found promising as sources of insecticides.
4255408| The quantity and quality of tannins extractable from commercial wattle grown in Kenya (Acacia mearnsii) and from nine Acacia species indigenous to Kenya (A. hockii, A. kirkii, A. mellifera, A. nilotica, A. polyacantha, A. sayel, A. senegal, A. sieberiana, and A. xanthophloea) has been examined by means of three different assay procedures including the official hide-powder method employed by the leather trade. This revealed that A. hockii, A. kirkii, A. senegel and A. xanthophloea all produced tannin in amounts comparable to wattle but in each case the protein precipitating capacity of the extract was different from that of wattle, suggestive of rapid complexation that would lead to a poor quality leather. Protein precipitating profiles comparable to that of wattle extract could, however, be produced by mixing the extracts of tannin-rich species with those of other species which, while relatively rich in extractable matter, appeared to have relatively little tannin. Suggestions are made for further studies that could lead to acceptable vegetable tannin being produced from indigenous Kenyan Acacia species. /// La cantidad y calidad de los taninos extrados a partir de la acacia comercial cultivada en Kenia (Acacia mearnsii)y a partir de nueve especies nativas de acacia de Kenia (A. hockii, A. kirkii, A. mellifera, A. nilotica, A. polyacantha, A. sayel, A. senegal, A. sieberiana y A. xanthophloea) fu analizada utilizando tres mtodos de ensayo diferentes, incluyendo el mtodo clsico del polvo de piel utilizado por la industria de curtiembre. Los resultados mostraron que A. hockii, A. kirkii, A. senegal y A. xanthophloea producen todas taninos en cantidades comparables a la acacia comercial, pero en cada caso la capacidad de precipitacin proteica del extracto fu diferente de la de la acacia comercial, lo que sugiere la formacin rpida de complejos que conllevara una baja calidad del cuero. Perfiles de precipitacin proteica comparables a los de la acacia comercial podran ser sinembargo obtenidos mezclando los extractos de las especies ricas en taninos con aquellos de otras especies que, aunque ricas en materiales extractables, revelaron ser pobres en taninos. Sugerimos otros estudios que podran conducir a la produccin adecuada de taninos vegetales a partir de las especies nativas de Acacia de Kenia. 
4256393| Evening primrose originated in North America and became naturalized in the north-east of China about one hundred years ago, where it has been used as famine food and animal feed. New uses for the seed oil, which contains -linolenic acid (GLA), that have been developed in China and overseas since 1980 have created a much larger commercial demand for the seed. There are eight species of Oenothera L. growing wild in China, of which Oenothera biennis L. is preferred. The maximum annual production of wild evening primrose seed is estimated to be about 3000 tons but, since 1986, evening primrose has also been cultivated for its seed and oil using O. biennis (primarily in the provinces of Jilin, Liaoning, Hebei, and Shandong) to meet the increasing demand. New production techniques have been developed and disseminated, and reported seed yields range from 750 to 3000 kg ha
4254405|One hundred ninety-five species of plants native to the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico were surveyed for potential feedstocks for biocrude production in arid lands. Biocrude is the hydrocarbon and hydrocarbon-like chemical fraction of plants which may be extracted by organic solvents and upgraded to liquid fuels and chemical feedstocks. Plants were evaluated using a set of models which provide estimates of oil and energy production costs. Plants producing either latex or resinous exudates had the highest percentage of high energy extracts. Total extracts were highest in smaller, potentially less productive plants. The optimum combination of percentage biocrude and potential yield occurred in plants of intermediate size having higher than average extractables. High biomass yields do not appear necessary for the economic production of biocrude in irrigated, arid regions. Several desert plants might produce biocrude for between $10-15 per million BTU without by-product credits.
4288007|Probably 90% of Kentucky bluegrass seed harvested for lawns comes from "wild" plants of polyglot origin. Perhaps one virtue of seed from several "wild" sources is that in every seed mixture there are seeds adaptable for most environmental requirements.
4256873|Samples of dried shea fruit pulp were collected from tree populations in Mali, Burkina Faso, northern Cameroon, and Uganda. A variety of analytical methods was used to measure total soluble solids (TSS), crude protein, and mineral contents. The results demonstrate that shea fruits are a rich source of sugars, protein, calcium, and potassium during the "hungry season", when food stores run low and the energy-intensive work of preparing land for planting must be done. A companion survey of indigenous shea tree and fruit classification was carried out in study area villages. Indigenous savanna inhabitants, especially men, emphasize the importance of fruit pulp taste, while women emphasize the butter content of the nuts. Shea fruits have greater importance to the inhabitants of the drier savannas such as the Sahel, where shea fruits have been shown to have higher nutritional values. While there is currently much international interest in developing the potential of shea butter production in Africa, the role of the fruit pulp in the local diet needs to be taken into consideration in development programs.
4256647| We report the inhibition of the causative agents of dental caries, Streptococcus mutans and other oral streptococci, by the antimicrobially active ingredients of the hop plant (Humulus lupulus L.). The hop constituents studied were purified beta acid, xanthohumol, iso-alpha acid and tetra iso-alpha acid. Cruder hop extracts were also investigated. The antimicrobial activity of these hop constituents was tested against four strains of Streptococcus mutans as well as one strain each of Streptococcus sanguis and Streptococcus salivarius and compared to antimicrobial essential oils used in mouthwashes in two independent assay systems. We found that all tested hop constituents inhibited the Streptococci. The minimum inhibitory concentration at pH 7.5 ranged from 2 to 50 g/ml depending on the microorganism and hop phytochemical tested. Contrary to a previous report, there was no activity enhancement by ascorbic acid over and above the enhancement due to pH lowering. There was no resistance development to beta acid after 10 passages in a subinhibitory concentration of this acid. Antimicrobial activity of hop constituents was found to be greater than other plant products such as thymol, nerol, cinnamon oil, oil of clove, menthol and eucalyptol. The possibilities of using hop constituents in mouthwashes are discussed. 
4255440| The genus Morinda embraces about 80 species, mostly of Old World origin. M. citrifolia L. (southern Asia-Australia), noted as a source of dye and edible leaves, has buoyant seeds that float for many months and commonly appears in the Pacific and also in tropical America where M. royoc L., pia de ratn, is indigenous, inhabits inland hammocks and pinelands as well as seacoasts, and is also one of the floating-seed morindas. There are brief references to its use for dyeing in the Cayman Islands and Yucatan. Both M. citrifolia and M. royoc have sundry folk-remedy uses. M. parvifolia Bartl. has antitumor/antileukemic activity. High intake of selenium by M. reticulata Benth. has poisoned horses in Australia. In the Philippines, there is new interest in the wood of M. citrifolia. It is hard and of beautiful grain. /// El gnero Morinda abarca alrededor de 80 especies. La mayora se origina en el Viejo Mundo. M. citrifolia (sur de Asia hasta Australia) conocida como fuente de tinte y hojas comestibles. Tiene semillas boyantes que flotan por muchos meses y comnmente aparecen en el Pacfico como tambin en Amrica tropical donde M. royoc L., pia de ratn, es indgena; habita en hamacas y bosques de pino poco adentro del pas, como tambin en ciertas costas del mar. Es una de las morindas de semillas-flotantes. Hay notas breves en la literatura sobre su uso en tintorera en las Cayman Islands y Yucatan. La M. citrifolia y la M. royoc ambos poseen algunos usos en medicina folklrica. La M. parvifolia posee actividad antitumor/antileukemico. La alta absorcin de selenio en la M. reticulata ha causado envenenamiento en caballos en Australia. En las Filipinas hay nuevo inters en madera de la M. citrifolia. Es dura y de fibra bonita. 
4253590|Marijuana (Cannabis sativa L.) was sampled at nine progressive growth stages in Riley County, Kansas, and analyzed for four major cannabinoids: cannabidiol (CBD), delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta-8-THC), delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta-9-THC), and cannabinol (CBN). Seasonal fluctuation in cannabinoids were related to stage of plant development. Cannabinoids were lowest in seedlings, highest prior to flowering and at an intermediate level thereafter until physiological maturity. Cannabinoids were highest in flowers and progressively lower in leaves, petioles, stems, seeds, and roots. Cannabinoid content of male and female flowers was not significantly different. Cannabidiol occurred in the highest concentrations (0.01 to 0.94% of dry matter) in all plant parts; delta-9-THC, the next highest (0.0001 to 0.06%) in the study over time. Cannabidiol content of leaf tissue of plants sampled from ten locations at flowering, ranged from 0.12 to 1.7%; delta-9-THC, from 0.01 to 0.49%. Some variation was attributed to environmental factors. Results indicate transformation of CBD to delta-9-THC to CBN. Environmental stress apparently increased delta-9-THC concentration, and bivalent ions: Mg, Mn, and Fe of leaf tissue could have regulated enzyme systems responsible for cannabinoid synthesis.
4257061|Researchers have developed several indices to estimate the significance of plant species for humans. We build on previous methods in ethnobotany and anthropology to develop a new way to value plant species along three dimensions: cultural, practical, and economic. We used interview and observational data on the use of wild plants by the Tsimane', a foraging-horticultural society in the Bolivian Amazon. We calculated the cultural, practical, economic, and total values of 114 plant species from 46 families. We found a low correlation between the practical and the cultural values of species: some species rarely used were frequently mentioned in interviews, whereas some species frequently used were rarely mentioned in interviews. Indices of cultural, practical, and economic value measure different dimensions of the importance of plant species to society. The combination of the three indices offers a more comprehensive valuation of the significance of plants for humans than the use of only one index.
4254652|One hundred and seven species of randomly-collected Leguminosae were evaluated for their potential as energy-producing crops. Whole plants, excluding roots, were chemically analyzed, and 11 species were identified as the more promising for future considerations based on a numerical rating system developed at this Center. Botanical, fiber, and protein characteristics of the more promising species that had ratings of less than 11 were considered excellent. Other characteristics, including contents of oil (1.7-3.2%; dry, ash-free, sample basis), polyphenol (5.4-16.5%), and hydrocarbon (0.3-0.6% for 10 species and 2.6% for one), were generally lower than those of promising species in other families previously analyzed. Of the 11 species, one contained principally rubber (polyisoprene) in the hydrocarbon fraction and 7 contained principally wax. Hydrocarbon fractions of 3 species with less than 0.4% were not examined. The oils of species with at least 3.0% oil were examined by thin layer chromatography (TLC) to determine classes of components and were given a saponification treatment to determine yields of unsaponifiable matter and fatty acids. The oil of one species was quantitatively analyzed for classes of compounds by TLC-flame ionization detection. Selected species with ratings greater than 10 are briefly discussed.
4287807|Oil of lavender, once produced to the extent of 150,000 kilograms annually in France from true lavender, has decreased to about 50,000 kilograms annually, having given way to a 300,000 kilogram production of lavandin from hybrids of true lavender and spike lavender.
4287894|The potent alkaloidal content of this plant has long made it an important intoxicating ceremonial plant of the Pacific islands and accounts for the minor commercial significance attached to it today.
4253891|The genus Oryza contains two cultivated species, O. sativa L., the Asiatic rice, and O. glaberrima Steud. which is limited to Africa. Despite much taxonomic work on the relationships of the wild species of the genus, they are still imperfectly known and there has not been unanimous agreement on nomenclature. Most of the species group into complexes the delimitation of which is a matter of opinion. This paper presents results from experimental work, and a theory for the evolution of African cultivated rice is put forward based on taxonomic studies.
4251860| Two closely related industries that depend, to a major degree, upon domestic sources of red gum, Douglasfir, black walnut, red and white oaks, sugar maple, Sitka spruce, Ponderosa pine and Port Orford cedar; and upon foreign sources of mahogany, rosewood, zebrawood, avodir, boss, ebony and other exotic species. 
4252045|Processing of sugar beets has become a major chemical industry in the United States. About one-quarter of the country's sugar requirement is obtained from about 12 million tons of beets grown on 700 thousand acres of land. This industry has succeeded through the combined efforts of scientists in many fields, who have improved resistance to diseases, sugar content of beets, methods of farming and processing procedures. Feed pulp, molasses, glutamic acid, potassium salts and betaine are by-products of the industry.
4287967|Estimates made on the uses for cereals (corn, wheat, oats, barley, sorghum, rice, and rye) in 1975 are based upon a number of assumptions. If those made in this article are approached, the pattern of cereal use will be much the same as it is at present.
4252036|Over three million acres of marginal farm land in the United States are capable of producing guayule rubber. Use of existing strains on these lands would produce 200,000 long tons of natural rubber per year. Plant breeding and process research could raise this to at least 300,000 long tons, or about half of our annual consumption of natural rubber.
4254953|Supplying 98% of the world's natural rubber, Hevea brasiliensis has transformed life around the world in only a century. This species-one of 10 in its genus-gives the best natural rubber, but much more remains to be studied concerning the numerous localised strains of the species. The British introduced to the Orient seeds from the lower Amazon-representatives of a not superior ecotype of the species but, at that time a century ago, the only available germ plasm. The time for study of the intraspecific variants of H. brasiliensis and their use in programmes of genetic manipulation of the genus is long overdue. But basic to this desired programme is a clear taxonomic understanding of infraspecific variants, still awaiting evaluation. Although numerous taxonomic treatments of subspecific variants have been offered, there is little available to give genetic programmes concrete information.
4254606|Genetic vulnerability does not at this time present a major threat to production of United States field crops, according to a 1981 survey of U.S. crop breeding directors. But plant breeders do regard genetic vulnerability as an important and potentially dangerous problem. The 1981 survey indicated that although the genetic base of U.S. field crop production is not as narrow as in 1970, it still is concentrated on a relatively small number of favored cultivars. Genetic diversity is provided, nevertheless, in other and less obvious ways. Survey responses indicated that the genetic base of the elite germplasm pool is wider and provides more useful diversity than is usually supposed. However, breeders also value the national germplasm repositories as indispensable sources of needed diversity.
4255463| The diversity of rice conserved ex situ is impressive from both cultivated and wild species. However, to ensure the genetic base of one of the world's most important crops, a sound, complementary in situ conservation of rice genepools is necessary. This paper reviews habitat destruction, loss of traditional rice germplasm and limitations to ex situ conservation. Examples of in situ conservation of rice genepools are given based on the literature, herbarium specimens, as well as personal experience of the authors. Proposals for ways to enhance efforts to conserve these genetic resources in situ are given including priority setting, selection, design, management and monitoring in situ conservation sites. The need to harmonise such efforts, particularly with local needs and national priorities in conservation, is stressed. / La diversidad ecolgica, conservada ex situ en arroz es impresionante tanto para las especies cultivadas como para las silvestres. Sin embargo, para asegurar la base gentica de uno de los cultivos mas importante en el mundo, es necesario una cuidadosa conservacin complementaria in situ del pool gentico. Este artculo, revisa la destruccin del hbitat, las perdidas y limitaciones del germoplasma de arroz para su conservacin ex situ. Ejemplos de conservacin de los fondos geneticos de arroz in situ se presentan basandose en la literatura, especimenes de herbario asi como tambin en la experincia personal de los autores. Propuestas para mejorar las tecnicas de conservacin, in situ de estas fuentes genticas se incluyen, asi como tambin la necesidad de harmonizar tales esfuerzos, particularmente entre las necesidades locales y las prioridades nacionales. 
4257166| Although Myanmar exports millions of dollars of rattan cane each year, the last systematic treatment of rattans in this country was done over 100 years ago, and virtually nothing has been written about the collection and trade of this important forest resource. Here we report the results from a study of rattans in the Hukaung Valley Tiger Reserve in northern Myanmar. A total of 15 species of rattan were encountered; seven species are new records for Myanmar and two species are new to science. Inventory transects revealed that the density of commercial rattans in local forests averages 40.5 canes 4 m long/hectare. Populations of all species appear to be actively regenerating. The current pattern of rattan exploitation, however, is largely uncontrolled and will eventually lead to resource depletion unless some form of management is implemented. 
4251908|Proper application of knowledge concerning the nutritional requirements of tobacco is an important factor in the production of better crops.
4255662| The pistachio tree (Pistacia vera) has long been cultivated in south-central Asia and throughout the Mediterranean region of southern Europe, north Africa and the Middle East. We examined genetic diversity and patterns of relatedness among fifteen P. vera cultivars, representing germplasm originating from throughout this range, by using Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. The resulting data were used to construct a similarity matrix and to perform a UPGMA cluster analysis. These analyses revealed two major clusters of P. vera germplasm: a Mediterranean cluster, which includes cultivars originating from the Mediterranean region of Europe, north Africa and the Middle East; and an Iranian-Caspian cluster, comprising germplasm originating from locations east of the Zagros mountains plus 'Peters', a cultivar selected as a seedling of unknown origin in the U.S.A. The data presented here, in combination with historical and geographical records, support the hypothesis that pistachio cultivation originated in or near the present natural range of the species and was spread by cultivation to the Mediterranean region of the Middle East. This more limited pool was the germplasm source for subsequent spread of pistachio by cultivation throughout the Mediterranean region. /// El pistachero (Pistacia vera) ha sido cultivado durante largo tiempo en el sur de Asia central y en las regiones mediterraneas del sur de Europa, norte de Africa y Oriente Medio. En el presente trabajo, se ha utilizado la tcnica de RAPD ("Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA") para examinar la diversidad genetica y el grado de parentesco entre quince cultivares de P. vera, representativos del germoplasma presente en su rea de cultivo. Con los datos obtenidos se construy una matriz de similitud y un anlisis de clusters usando la tcnica de UPGMA. Los anlisis diferenciaron dos grupos principales en el germoplasma de P. vera. El grupo mediterrneo, que incluye cultivares obtenidos en la cuenca mediterrnea de Europa, norte de Africa y Oriente Medio, y un segundo grupo representativo de Irn y el Mar Caspio; este ltimo grupo contiene germoplasma originario de lugares situados siempre al este de la cordillera del Zagros adems de 'Peters', un cultivar seleccionado en Estados Unidos a partir de semilla de origen desconocido. Estos datos y registros histricos y arqueolgicos confirman le hiptesis del comienzo del cultivo del pistachero cerca del rea de distribucin actual de poblaciones silvestres y la posterior difusin de germoplasma al Oriente Medio. Las actuales variedades de la cuenca mediterrnea tendran su origen en el germoplasma que previamente haba alcanzado el Oriente Medio. 
4254995|The Otomi village of San Pablito in northern Puebla has preserved the tradition of making bark paper for over 400 yr, and today is the only papermaking center in all of Mexico. In the past 20 yr, bark paper has become highly commercialized and several aspects of the Otomi papermaking process have changed. Unprecedented production levels have caused the total depletion of traditional sources of raw material. In response to this situation, the Otomi have been forced to change the types of bark that are utilized, the logistics of bark collection, and the treatment of the bark fiber prior to use. The majority of the paper currently produced in San Pablito is made from the bark of Trema micrantha imported from the state of Veracruz. A plantation of this species is being established near San Pablito to reduce the Otomi dependence on outside sources of raw material.
4255281| Guayule (Parthenium argentatum, Asteraceae) is one of two major plant species grown for natural rubber. Studies were conducted to determine the effect of honey bee (Apis mellifera) pollination and season on seed set and total seed yield/ha. The experiments involved four pollination treatments: plants caged with bees; plants caged without bees; plants open pollinated (uncovered); and plants individually covered. Seeds were harvested monthly July-September 1984, and May-September 1985. Plots with bees produced at least 150% more seeds than plots without bees, and there were no qualitative differences in the seed weights among treatments. Highest seed yield was in May and September. Results indicate that (1) insect pollination in guayule increases seed yield and (2) fewer seeds are produced in the warmest months. /// Le Guayule (Parthenium argentatum, Asteraceae) est une des deux principales espces de plantes cultive pour le caoutchouc naturel. On a fait des tudes pour dterminer les effets causs par les saisons et par la pollination des abeilles (Apis mellifera) sur la production des graines et le rendement total de graines par hectare. L'exprimentation comprenait quatre formes de pollination: plantes sous receptacle avec des abeilles; plantes sous receptacle sans abeille; plantes avec pollination libre (non-couvertes); et des plantes sous receptacle individuel. On a rcolt les graines une fois par mois de juillet  septembre 1984 et de mai  septembre 1985. Les parcelles avec abeilles ont produit un minimum de 150% de graines supplmentaire par rapport aux parcelles sans abeille, et il n'y avait pas de diffrence qualitative dans le poids des graines parmi les quatre formes d'exprimentation. Le rendement le plus important de graines tait en mai et en septembre. Le rsultat indique que la pollination des insectes dans le guayule augmente le rendement de graines et que moins de graines sont produites dans les mois les plus chauds. 
4257193| Merremia dissecta was first discovered in the Caribbean, then Florida, Mexico, and later in the Old World, where it had been introduced. Historically and currently, the species has been used as a condiment, medicine, and ornamental by an array of cultures. Although the plant has escaped in several areas to become a weed, it continues being sold as an ornament in even those regions. In Argentina, roots of M. dissecta var. edentata are still used as food by a few indigenous groups. History, uses, and chemistry are discussed regarding these utilizations. /// Merremia dissecta fue primeramente descubierta en el Caribe, luego en la Florida, Mxico y ms tarde fue introducida en el Viejo Mundo. Histricamente y an actualmente se ha usado como condimento, medicina, y ornamentacin por varias culturas. A pesar de que en varias reas se ha transformado en una mala hierba, se continua vendiendo como un ornamento an en esas areas. En Argentina, las raices de M. dissecta var. edentata an son usadas como alimento por unos cuantos grupos indgenas. La historia, los usos y la qumica de estas utilizacines son aqu discutidas. 
4255991| The 640 hectare large Los Tuxtlas rain forest reserve was analyzed for the commercial potential of its 860 native flowering plant species. Excluding plants with medicinal or chemical use, 91 species (10.6%) are found in the market, and we consider an additional 72 species (8.4%) to have market potential. For each of the 163 species, the following information is given: scientific and common name, geographic distribution, growth form, use, and market status. Of the 163 species, 2.4% are endemic to the Los Tuxtlas region, 10.4% are restricted to Mexico, 42.3% extend further into Central America, and 39.3% occur also in South America, while 20.2% are found in the West Indies. The majority of species (68.7%) are trees. In terms of use categories, 35.0% are employed for their timber, 32.5% for their fuelwood, 24.5% for ornamental purposes, 22.7% for their edible fruits, leaves or flowers, 11.0% for plywood or paper, 6.1% for artwork and weaving, and 1.2% as fodder plants. The more than 160 marketable species would make it possible to develop species-diverse forests of high commercial value, as an alternative to current land use, which consists in converting forest into cattle pastures. /// Se analiz el potencial comercial de las 860 especies de angiospermas nativas a la reserva de Los Tuxtlas (640 hectreas). Omitiendo las plantas con uso medicinal o qumico, 91 especies (10.6%) se encontraron en el mercado, a las cuales se pueden aadir 72 especies (8.4%) con potencial para la comercializacin. Para cada una de las 163 especies se proporciona el nombre cientfico y comn, distribucin geogrfica, forma de crecimiento, uso y situacin en el mercado. La distribucin geogrfica natural de las 163 especies indica que el 2.4% son endmicas en la regin de Los Tuxtlas, 10.4% se restringen a Mxico, 42.3% se extienden hasta Amrica Central, y el 39.3% se distribuyen hasta Sudamrica, mientras el 20.2% se encuentran en las Antillas. La mayora de las especies son rboles (68.7%). En cuanto a sus categoras de uso, el 35.0% se utilizan por su madera, 32.5% por su lea, 24.5% son ornamentales, el 22.7% se usan por sus frutos, hojas o flores comestibles, el 11.0% para triplay o papel, el 6.1% en artesana o cestera y el 1.2% como plantas forrajeras. El conjunto de las ms de 160 especies de inters comercial permitira desarrollar bosques diversos en especies y con un alto valor comercial, lo que es una alternativa promisoria al uso actual del terreno, el cual consiste en la transformacin de la selva en pastizales para ganado. 
4256734| The phenology of vegetative and reproductive patterns, shoot growth, and the physiological and anatomical plasticity of leaves of ciruela mexicana (Spondias purpurea L.) exposed to different ranges of light are described. Flower and fruit production occur during the dry season. Shoot elongation occurs during late spring and summer. Growth rates of S. purpurea are similar to the rates reported for fast growing plants, when growing on rocky slopes in shallow infertile soils. Leaves exposed to the highest photosynthetic photon flux (PPF) had a thicker mesophyll than leaves that developed under the shade. Midday depression of photosynthesis was observed for S. purpurea. The reduction in the rates of net CO
4254500|The selective forces imposed by agricultural practices have resulted in the evolution of agricultural races of weeds or agroecotypes. Some agroecotypes are intimately associated with a specific crop. Such associations can involve a system of mimicry, whereby the weed resembles the crop at specific stages during its life history and, as a result of mistaken identity, evades eradication. Mimetic forms of weeds are most likely to be selected by handweeding of seedlings or by harvesting and seed cleaning procedures. A striking example of morphological and phenological resemblance is found in the cultivated rice mimic, Echinochloa crus-galli var. oryzicola, a native of Asian rice fields but now widely distributed in rice-growing areas of the world. Comparative studies of the growth, development and patterns of phenotypic variation of cultivated rice, E. crus-galli var. oryzicola and E. crus-galli var. crus-galli demonstrate that the crop mimic is more similar to rice in many attributes than it is to its close relative. It is proposed that intense handweeding practices in Asia constitute the main selective force favoring the evolution of rice mimicry in E. crus-galli var. oryzicola.
4255638| An ethnobotanical study was carried out among the Ayoreo of the Paraguayan Chaco to document their use of food plants. Scientific and Ayoreo names as well as uses have been provided for 33 gathered and 12 cultivated food plants. The agricultural and gathering practices are presented and discussed. / Se realiz un estudio etnobotnico entre los Ayoreo del Chaco Paraguayo para documentar su empleo de plantas alimenticias. Se presentan los nombres cientficos y Ayoreo, as como el uso de 33 plantas alimenticias objeto de recoleccin y de 12 especies cultivadas. 
4251879|No longer limited to descriptions of economically important plants and to accounts of their culture, products, preparation, occurrence, distribution and uses, the scope of Economic Botany today must include careful taxonomic work, the application of physiological principles, recognition of ecological relationships and the science of genetics.
4255093| The palmyra, or toddy, palm (Borassus flabellifer L., Arecaceae) grows wild from the Persian Gulf to the Cambodian-Vietnamese border; is commonly cultivated in India, Southeast Asia, Malaysia and occasionally in other warm regions including Hawaii and southern Florida, where there are also a number of specimens of the similar B. aethiopum Mart. In addition to the sweet sap from the inflorescence and the many products of the leaves, trunk and underground seedlings, a thin orange pulp coating the fibers of the mature fruit is consumed fresh or dried as a paste. The large seeds, when immature, before the shell hardens, contain jelly-like kernels esteemed for food. These kernels, whole or sliced and canned in thin, clear sirup, are being exported from Thailand and are appearing in Asiatic markets across the United States. Mature kernels are hard as ivory. A number of Borassus palms have succumbed to lethal-yellowing disease in Florida. /// Die Palmyra, oder Toddy, Palme (Borassus flabellifer L., Arecaceae), wchst wild vom persischen Golf bis zur Cambodischen-Vietnamisischen Grenze; sie ist gewhnlich in Indien, Sudost Asien, und Malaya kultiviert. Doch manchmal auch in anderen warmen Regionen wie Hawaii und auch sd Florida, wo es auch eine Anzahl von hnlichen Speciments die B. aethiopum Mart. gibt. Zustzlich zu dem sssen Saft von der Blte und den vielen Produkten von den Blttern, Stamm, und untergrund Setzlingen, ist eine dnne orangefarbe Schichte, die reife Frucht bersicht und wird entweder getrocknet oder frisch als Paste genossen. Die grossen Samen enthalten Gelatine hnliche Kerne, geniessbar bevor die Schale hart wird. Diese Kerne, ganz oder geschnitten werden in Dosen im Klaren Sirup nach Thailand exportiert und sind in den Vereinigte Staaten am Asiatischen Markt erhltlich. Ausgewachsene Kerne sind hart wie Elfinbein. Eine Auswahl von Borassus Palmen sind in Florida einer Tdlichen-gelben Krankheit zum Opfer gefallen. 
4255562|Carrots, celery, caraway and cumin and their relatives in the Apiaceae (Umbelliferae) have a long history of human use dating from our earliest written records. A large body of folklore has accumulated on their magical and mythical curative properties. Many of the early uses have persisted as part of 20th century folklore, sometimes supplementary to modern medicine. Studies largely during the last half of this century have provided the chemical bases for some of the ancient cures.
4254793|In northwest Mexico, along the Sierra Madre Occidental and the adjacent slopes and plains, maize forms the center of a series of cultural traits illustrative of the interrelationships of man and plants. Here more than 20 racial types have been collected. This diversity is related to the variation in climate and soil conditions, to human migrations from the Mesoamerican cultural center to the Greater Southwest area, and to the differential selection by the ethnic groups in the region. The agricultural practices of the farmers are reviewed to illustrate how different aspects of environment, economic needs, food preference, manner of utilization, and ceremonial concepts constitute continuing forces of selection and motivation for introduction of varieties from other areas. It is suggested that color of the grain is utilized as an indicator of physiological characteristics. A phenotypic analysis of more than 600 collections from the area indicates the occurrence of constant intercrossing among maize populations.
4255268|In this review, the contributions of isozyme and chloroplast DNA studies to questions surrounding the evolution of maize are summarized. These methods of analysis provide generally strong support for the hierarchical system of classification of Zea proposed by Iltis and Doebley (1980). Molecular evidence is fully congruent with the theory that teosinte is ancestral to maize and suggests that Z. mays subsp. parviglumis was the ancestral teosinte taxon. Further, these data show that only those populations from the central region of the range of subsp. parviglumis resemble maize in both isozymic and chloroplast DNA constitution. Presuming no major changes in the distribution of subsp. parviglumis since the domestication of maize, these data would place the origin of maize in the Balsas River drainage southwest of Mexico City. Molecular systematic evidence provides no support for theories that maize was domesticated independently several times; however, this type of data can not disprove such theories. Analyses of isozyme and chloroplast DNA diversity in Zea provide evidence of limited gene flow between maize and teosinte, but are not consistent with models that postulate extensive genetic interchange between these taxa. Isozyme studies have added substantially to the understanding of evolutionary relationships among extant races of maize and suggest that there are a small number of major racial complexes in Meso- and North America which have often evolved in response to environmental constraints associated with altitude. Ultimately, molecular genetic studies may allow a resolution of the controversy surrounding the morphological evolution of the maize ear.
40390394|Cedrus libani A. Rich is a magnificent and sacred tree species native to the eastern Mediterranean region. Today, traditional people in southern Turkey produce wood extract, called katran, from G libani, and use it to protect wooden structures against insects and fungi, to fight parasites and bacteria, and to heal wounds and cure various diseases in humans and domestic animals, both internally and externally. Here we illustrate traditional methods of producing katran, its use by local people, and its chemical composition.
4253035| Fiber yields are reported for the interspecific hybrid 'Florida H-13' (Sansevieria trifasciata Prain  S. deserti N. E. Brown), subjected to various harvesting cycles at three locations in southern Florida. Yields of 'Florida H-13' are compared with those of other
4253825|The problem of seedless nuts, or "blanks," is common to the filbert wherever it is grown. To the commercial grower, it represents a serious economic loss. The cause of blanks is unknown. Suspected causes for blanks are cytomixis during megasporogenesis, genetic incompatibility between pollenizer and main-crop cultivars, self-pollination, aneuploidy, lack of double fertilization, embryo abortion, seasonal variation, and cultural practice.
40390611|This paper examines crop species diversity in home gardens of traditional communities along a remote tributary in northeastern Peru. A large-scale survey was conducted of 300 gardens in 15 villages along a 150 km reach of the Corrientes River. Study villages vary notably in community size, ethnicity of residents (Achuar, Urarina, mestizo), and proximity to the regional town (Trompeteros) as well as to oil wells. Gardens were inventoried and interviews conducted with garden tenders to provide data on socioeconomic characteristics of the household and contextual conditions. Multiple regression analyses identified the determinants of species diversity. Results indicate high crop diversitythe highest yet reported for sites in the Amazon basinparticularly among the Achuar people. Garden species diversity is greatest in larger villages and, surprisingly, in those villages located nearer to the oil company. Within villages, households with larger land holdings (and gardens), more in-house labor, and garden tenders who are older and female tend to have more diverse gardens. A small number of households (15/300) were found to hold exceptional diversity, often older and land-wealthier households located on the outskirts of villages. These farmers held, on average, three times the number of species as a typical village garden and 60% of all species encountered in the study.
4255647|A hypothesis is proposed whereby weedy vetch (Vicia sativa L.) seed moved with seed of the cultivated lentil (Lens culinaris Medikus) as a tolerated weed during the spread of the lentil from the Fertile Crescent in the Near East to its current distribution. As a result, selection occurred in vetch weeds for a reduction in dormancy/hard-seededness, increased competitive ability and biomass, and phenological adaptation to new environments-predisposing the weed for domestication. The cropping of common vetch for forage in pure culture followed. Archaeological evidence of admixtures of grass pea (Lathyrus sativus L.) in Neolithic finds of lentil, pea (Pisum sativum L.) and bitter vetch (Vicia ervilia (L.) Wild.) suggests a similar process of selection in grass pea for a weedy habit from which domestication later occurred.
4256676| For centuries the Yanesha have practiced complex swidden agriculture well adapted to the narrow valleys of the upper Peruvian Amazon. The 1980s marked a time of increased change in the Palcazu Valley, beginning with the construction of a marginal highway (Carretera Marginal) in 1984 that dissected several native communities. This study employs quantitative plant ecology and interviews to describe change in Yanesha agriculture in Laguna fifteen years later. Percent cover, planting density, field size, and diversities of species (), field-type (), and height class did not change in fields. In 1999, black earth and commercial agroforestry were new field types, and upland rice fields were absent. In home gardens, species richness persisted, while changes in species composition reflected species experimentation and aggregation of homes along the roadside (with upland soils). The road facilitated the flow of plants, people, and markets to influence Yanesha agriculture, and facilitated other agents of change during more than a decade of guerrilla, military, Ashaninka, and drug-trafficking activities plaguing the Palcazu Valley. This violence punctuated calmer periods when "development" was promoted by aid agencies. Agents of conservation included community land titles, immigration restrictions, a national park, protection forest, and communal reserves. /// Por siglos los Yanesha han practicado un sistema agrcola de roza-y-quema bien adaptado a los valles de la alta Amazonia peruana. En los aos ochenta varios incidentes afectaron el Valle Palcazu, incluyendo la construccin de una carretera (la Carretera Marginal) que dividi algunas comunidades indgenas. Esta investigacin utiliz mtodos de ecologa botnica cuantitativa y entrevistas para describir cambios en la agricultura Yanesha en Laguna despus de quince aos. El porcentaje de cobertura, la densidad de siembra, el tamao de campo agrcola, y las diversidades de especies (), del tipo de campo (), y del nivel de altura no cambiaron en los campos agrcolas. Entre los cambios importantes en 1999 se presentaron nuevos tipos de campos con tierra negra y campo agroforestal comercial y una ausencia notada de arrozales. En huertas domesticas, se conserv la riqueza de especies, aunque se presentaron cambios en la composicin de especies como resultado de la experimentacin y agregacin de casas por la carretera (con suelos pobres de altura). La carretera facilit movimiento de plantas, personas, y mercados que influyeron la agricultura Yanesha, y facilit otro agentes de cambio durante ms de una dcada de actividades de guerrillas, militares, Ashaninka, y narcotraficantes en el Valle Palcazu. Agentes de conservation incluyieron titulos comunitarios, imigration restrijida, un parque nacional, un foresta de protection, y reserves comunales. 
4288024|Crude protein content of the leaf of cultivars of Manihot esculenta is very high. There are no analyses of nutritionally essential amino acids, but certain evidence indicates that cassava leaf may be of value in protein-rich diets.
4251923|This material, now being produced commercially in Puerto Rico, has value as a mulching, rooting, soil-conditioning and seed-germinating medium.
4253727|Jarilla chocola (Caricaceae) was evaluated at two locations as a potential new crop. The fruits and tuberous roots of this dioecious, perennial plant contain proteinase. Results show limited potential because of intolerance to freezing, susceptibility to soil-borne pathogens, and only moderate fruit production. Partial shade and moist, well drained soils are required for adequate vegetative development. Seed require an after-ripening period for good germination. There were more male than female plants in small seedling populations, and these bloomed more profusely than female plants.
4254933|Coumarin was a component of some commercial vanilla preparations until banned in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration in 1954 because of evidence of hepatotoxicity in animals. However, in the present investigation coumarin was detected by capillary column gas chromatography/mass spectrometry in Mexican vanilla extracts commercially available or introduced in the United States by tourists or travelers. The significance of the presence of coumarin in Mexican vanilla extracts is discussed in light of recent evidence suggesting a lack of significant coumarin toxicity in humans.
4256248| To determine the relationships and genetic diversity among the Mexican races of maize, 209 accessions representing 59 races were analyzed for 21 enzyme systems encoded by 37 loci; 154 out of the 209 accessions were grown in multiple locations and seasons in Mexico and 47 morphological characters were measured. A very high level of variation among and within the Mexican races was found. However, more than 65% of the alleles found in the accessions studied are rare, occurring at frequencies below 0.01. In addition, some populations have low levels of genetic diversity and have values of genetic differentiation similar to selfing crops. Most of the accessions with low values of genetic diversity are specialty varieties. / Con el fin de determinar las interrelaciones y la diversidad gentica entre las razas mexicanas de maz, se analizaron 21 sistemas enzimticos (37 loci) en 209 colecciones representantes de 59 razas; 154 colecciones del grupo anterior fueron sembradas en diferentes ambientes de Mexico y se midieron 47 caracteres morfolgicos en forma directa. Los anlisis de los datos mostraron que el maz en Mexico posee niveles altos de variabilidad tanto entre como dentro de razas. Sin embargo, ms del 65% de los alelos encontrados en las colectas estudiadas son raros, es decir, ocurren en frecuencias menores a 0.01. Adicionalmente, varias poblaciones tienen niveles bajos de diversidad y valores de diferenciacin gentica similares a especies autgamas. La mayora de las accesiones con niveles bajos de diversidad gentica son vaiedades para usos especiales. 
4287856|This anthelmintic drug, consisting of dried unexpanded flower heads of several species of Artemisia native to widely separated areas in both the Old and New Worlds, has heretofore been commercially obtained principally from A. Cina of Turkestan. Today A. maritima of West Pakistan has supplanted the Russian source as the principal supplier.
4255615| Three-lobed sage is here claimed as being, most likely, a part in the sage of the ancient and medieval texts not a mere substitute for S. officinalis. The traditional uses recently discovered in Spain and Madeira are here published for the first time and compared with the data available from the Eastern Mediterranean region. / La salvia trilobulada es reivindicada como una muy probable parte de la salvia de los textos antiguos y medievales, y no como un mero sustituyente de Salvia officinalis. Los usos tradicionales recientemente descubiertos en Espaa se presentan aqu por primera vez y se comparan con los datos disponibles de la Regin Mediterrnea Oriental. 
4254831|The great need for adequate documentation of germplasm collections, including accurate geographic location, needs again to be stressed. We discuss 3 reported stations for teosinte (Zea spp., Gramineae) in Guatemala. The first was discovered by Melhus and Chamberlain in 1949; an attempt by the senior author to relocate this station in 1976 was unsuccessful, but we now have a good idea of where this population (probably Z. luxurians) may occur. The second, that of Rojas in 1942, lies well outside the known ranges of either of the 2 Guatemalan teosintes, Z. luxurians and Z. mays subsp. parviglumis var. huehuetenangensis. The third, a collection of Steyermark's, turns out to be a Tripsacum. We urge plant scientists, applied botanists, geographers, anthropologists, and others to provide voucher specimens with accurate location data for all plant populations that they study.
4256208|The only first hand account we have in English, concerning the Burmese cultivation of winged bean Psophocarpus tetragonolobus for its edible tubers, was written over ninety years ago. A survey carried out in the markets and growing areas of Myanmar in January 1998 confirmed much of the detail of this earlier report and demonstrated that the winged bean is an entrenched though minor component of commercial agriculture in Upper Burma. It could be more than this.
4256906| Prosopis africana is a multipurpose tree of great economic value among the rural communities in the Guinea savanna of Nigeria. The fruit of the tree is used as feed for animals, while the seeds are fermented to make ukpehe, a highly proteinaceous condiment. The tree is not cultivated. The products from the hard wood, such as some wooden farm implements, kitchen utensils, and planks for construction, are extensively traded. The tree is a good source of firewood and charcoal. The secondary roots are used as medicine. Fully documented and discussed here are the various uses of some parts of the tree, including the stem, seeds, and roots. /// A. prosopis  uma rvore multifacetada de grande valor economico entre as comunidades rurais da savana guiniense da Nigria. O fruto da rvore  usado como alimento para os animais enquanto as sementes so fermentadas para fazer "ukpehe," um condimento com alto valor em proteinas. A rvore no  cultivada. Utenslios para cozinha, instrumentos para a agricultura e tbuuas para a construao civil fabricados com a madeira desta rvore so comercializados em larga escala. Esta espcie de rvore  uma boa fonte de lenha e carvo. As raizes secundrias so usada como medica. mentos. os diversos vsos das diferentes partes desta rvore, troncos, sementes e raizes esto amplamente documentados e discutidos. 
4257140| Ethnobotanical studies often assume plant knowledge is shared by all members of an arbitrarily bounded human group. By describing the uses and local categorization of plants in one village in rural Panama in a heteroglossic approach, the different knowledges within a village are presented in one article. Plants used in the daily work of women and men, and the work of village specialists are described. Villagers negotiate changing realities by adapting plant use and knowledge; this is reflected in local categorization of plant names into antes and hoy da. Unlike the established ethnobotanical assumption that bounded units of plant knowledge are dying, the younger generations of villagers, who work both within and outside the village, know more plants useful to their changing economic opportunities. Subsistence agriculturalists possess the adaptive plant knowledge skills to be stewards of the environment. 
4253011|The aquatic plant Ipomoea aquatica is grown in southeastern Asia as a summer leaf vegetable. It is particularly common in south China and Hong Kong, where it has a very ancient history. Two methods of cultivation are used in Hong Kong: the dry-land method utilizing raised beds and the wet-land method on flooded paddy-fields. During the summer months I. aquatica supplies up to 15% of local vegetable production.
4255386|Distinguished Economic Botanists' address delivered 12 June 1990 at the 31st Annual Meeting of the Society for Economic Botany, University of Wisconsin, Madison (delayed publication resulting from illness of the author).
4256864|Bottle gourd [Lagenaria siceraria (Mol.) Standley] is an edible, medicinal, and otherwise utilitarian domesticated cucurbit with an ancient pantropical distribution. This African native reached Asia and the Americas 9000 years ago, probably as a wild species whose fruits had floated across the seas. Independent domestications from wild populations are believed to have occurred in both the Old and New Worlds. However, few wild populations of L. siceraria have been found during recorded history and none has been verified or studied in detail. In 1992, Mary Wilkins-Ellert discovered an unusual free-living plant of Lagenaria in a remote region of southeastern Zimbabwe. Her morphological observations during several plantings of the collected seed, as well as results from two genetic analyses (random amplified polymorphic DNA and chloroplast sequencing), indicate that the Zimbabwe collection is part of a genetically distinct and wild lineage of L. siceraria.
4288014|Some native groups of the South Pacific islands dwell in lowland swamps, an adverse environment for man. To ensure their sustenance, they rely on foraging for plants thriving naturally in the swamps such as sago palms (Metroxylon spp.) or the Bruguiera mangrove trees. Sometimes they grow plants adapted to the marsh conditions, such as Cyrtosperma chamissonis. The present work sums up the knowledge we have of these plants and their uses in Oceania.
4254578|Maygrass, Phalaris caroliniana, a native annual grass used as a food resource by prehistoric Indians of the eastern United States, was analyzed for nutritive value. Protein nutrient density of maygrass grains is higher than that for other starchy seeds, oily seeds, and nuts commonly found in paleoethnobotanical samples from the region. Maygrass grains are a good source of several vitamins and minerals, especially thiamin and dietary iron. The amino acid in shortest supply is lysine. Nutritional quality of the grains may have served as an inducement for its protection or cultivation.
4253740| This article describes the ingestion of hallucinogenic mushrooms-Psilocybe Hoogshagenii Heim-as a means to diagnose illness among contemporary Chinantec-speaking Indians of the Sierra de Ixtln, Oaxaca, Mxico. It is possible that several varieties of hallucinogenic mushrooms are used amongst these highland Chinantecs, the specific variety utilized depending upon "seasonal availability and the precise purpose for which the narcotic is to be taken" (Schultes, 1972: 10). However, the following describes only the observed use of Psilocybe Hoogshagenii, and it should not be generalized to the use of other mushrooms which may prove equally available to diagnosticians in the Sierra. 
4255516|By drawing on quantitative studies in social anthropology, zoology, ethnobotany, and economics we present a method for conducting an economic valuation of non-timber forest products. A review of 24 studies suggests that the median value for non-timber forest products is about $50/ha/year. We discuss problems with past studies and suggest ways to get better estimates of output quantities, marginal costs, and prices.
4252929|Data on protein yields show that forage crops, particularly alfalfa, produce several times more protein per acre than do seed crops. Amino acid analyses and estimations of biological values by enzymatic hydrolysis and feeding trials indicate that protein concentrates from green plants have high nutritive value. The protein concentrates from 10 plant species had a similar amino acid composition and biological value which indicates that good protein might be obtained from many plant species. It is suggested that the use of the fibrous residue as a feed for ruminants and the use of the protein concentrate as a high protein feed or base for processing into new protein foods may make it possible for the production of protein from green plants to compete with other sources of protein. This would markedly increase protein production per acre and allow the use of new plant species in our agriculture. The need for more research on protein production from different types of green plants and on ways to harvest, concentrate and process their proteins into edible forms is discussed.
4255777| Bamboos are useful to people wherever they grow, and in Jamaica, Bambusa vulgaris is no exception. Introduced in the 18th century, this bamboo is now well established, and has been put to a wide variety of uses from early on. This paper documents the past and present uses of bamboo in Jamaica. / El bamb, donde se halle, es til a la gente, y en Jamaica, Bambusa vulgaris no es una excepcin. Introducido en el siglo XVIII, este bamb es bien conocido, y ha sido desde temprano destinado a una gran variedad de usos. Este trabajo documenta el uso del bamb en Jamaica en el pasado y el presente. 
4255134|Two hundred and ninety three fully identified species representing 203 genera and 77 families were collected from Mt. Merapi, Mt. Sago, Baso, Simarasap Forest, Ngalau Forest, Padang, Air Sirah Forest, and Ulu Gadat Forest in West Sumatra and tested for the presence of alkaloids. Positive results were obtained for 58 species representing 50 genera and 26 families.
4256549| The rhizome of Actaea racemosa L., commonly called black cohosh, is a popular botanical dietary supplement used to treat female health concerns. The rhizomes used in black cohosh products are often collected from the wild. To ensure quality control, it is imperative that plants be correctly identified. This paper examines the use of the DNA fingerprinting technique, AFLP, as an analytical means of identifying A. racemosa from three other closely related sympatric species. To this end, 262 AFLP markers were generated, and one unique fingerprint was identified for A. racemosa, whereas two, six, and eight unique fingerprints were identified for the closely related species A. pachypoda, A. cordifolia, and A. podocarpa, respectively. Two commercial black cohosh products were also subjected to AFLP analysis and shown to contain only A. racemosa. The results of this study suggest that AFLP analysis may offer a useful method for quality control in the botanical dietary supplements industry. /// Das Rhizom von Actaea racemosa L., allgemein als 'black cohosh' bezeichnet, ist eine beliebte pflanzliche Ditsergnzung, die fr weibliche Gesundheitsprobleme bentzt wird. Oft sind die in 'black cohosh'-Produkten verwendeten Rhizome in freier Natur gesammelt. Um Qualittskontrolle zu sichern, ist es zwingend, die Pflanzen richtig zu identifizieren. Diese Studie berprft den Gebrauch der DNA-Fingerabdrucktechnik, AFLP, als analytisches Mittel der Identifizierung, um A. racemosa von drei anderen in ihrer Nhe beheimateten und nah verwandten Spezies zuunterscheiden. Zu diesem Zweck wurden 262 AFLP-Fingerabdrcke erzeugt. Fr A. racemosa wurde ein einzigartiger Fingerabdruck identifiziert, whrend fr die nah verwandten Spezies A. pachypoda zwei, A. cordifolia sechs, und A. podocarpa acht einzigartige Fingerabdrcke gefunden wurden. Zwei kommerzielle 'black cohosh'-Produkte wurden ebenfalls der AFLP-Analyse unterzogen, wobei nur A. racemosa nachgewiesen werden konnte. Die Resultate dieser Studie zeigen, da die AFLP-Technik eine ntzliche Methode fr die Qualittskontrolle in der pflanzlichen Ditsergnzungsindustrie bieten kann. 
4254081|Results are presented from a survey in which a sample of 887 people living in southern Ghana were questioned as to the chewing sticks they use, reasons for choice, and whether sticks are collected or bought. It appears that four kinds of sticks account for more than 85% of the total usage. Differences were recorded in preferred species and in diversity of species used, reason for choice and source of supply, according to age, sex, ethnic origin, size of settlement and educational background.
4255226| Two kinds of Citrus (Rutaceae) known as "forbidden fruit" have been found growing in Saint Lucia, West Indies. These trees correspond closely with descriptions in the Caribbean literature of the early 19th century for kinds of Citrus called "forbidden fruit." The forbidden fruit was thought to be long extinct. The close relationship of the forbidden fruit to the grapefruit and the high degree of monoembryony observed among some of the selections may make them important genetic resources for sweet orange, grapefruit, and rootstock breeding programs. /// Deux sortes de Citrus (Rutaces) connues comme "fruit defendu" ont t trouves se developper  Saint Lucia, Antilles (Indes de l'Ouest). Ces arbres correspondent de trs prs aux descriptions des genres de Citrus appels "fruit defendu" trouvs dans la literature Carabe au debut du 19eme sicle. Il a t pens que le fruit defendu a t eteint. La relation trs proche entre le fruit defendu et le pamplemousse (pomelo) et le haut degr de monoembryonie observ entre quelques selections peuvent les mettre des ressources genetiques importantes pour les programmes de croisement et de propagation des oranges, de pamplemousses, et des porte-greffes. 
4256924|Recently, the geographic origin of plant species comprising indigenous Amazonian pharmacopoeias has been addressed. However, the origins of plant species in Andean pharmacopoeias have not. To fill this gap, we reviewed the pharmacopoeia of the Kallawaya herbalists of Bolivia for exotic plant species. The Kallawaya are the most renowned herbalists of South America and travel extensively throughout the Andes to collect medicinal plant species. Approximately 30% of the Kallawaya pharmacopoeia is comprised of exotic plant species. Many of these species are used in a variety of contexts (e.g., food, hygiene, beverages, ornamentals, timber, dyes, aromatics, hallucinogens) in addition to medicinal. This case study demonstrates the evolution of indigenous pharmacopoeias as a result of cross-cultural plant transfer.
4256705|Since the end of the Vietnam War, thousands of Laotian Hmong have immigrated to the United States, many ultimately resettling in the Central Valley of California. In the innercity environment of Sacramento, the Hmong continue their agrarian traditions by creating urban gardens where they grow traditional plants. In this study, we document 59 Hmong garden species grown at a site in South Sacramento. Most of these species are documented in the Southeast Asian botanical literature as either food or medicinal plants. Uses of the plants are discussed as is the importance of urban gardens in maintaining Hmong cultural identity and practices.
4256422|The percentage of tannins in leaves, bark, wood, and immature fruits of several species of Acacia and related mimosoid legumes from the southwestern U.S. and Mexico, along with a few from Costa Rica and Argentina, was determined by a modified hide powder procedure and by precipitation with casein. The relative percentages of hydrolyzable and condensed tannins were determined by the iodate and the vanillin-HCl methods, respectively. Gallotannins of selected samples were also determined by the rhodanine method. Although the amount of total tannins was similar for the first two methods, values for condensed tannins by the vanillin-HCl method were frequently two to four times greater than the total tannin values.
4255597| This paper provides a brief account of 31 plants associated with herbal remedies among the Hayas, a tribe of Kagera region, Tanzania. Reports from informants were obtained during field studies in June 1987. For each species are given the botanical name, vernacular name, collection number, locality, habit, distribution and medical uses. The data are compared with information from literature for medical uses, and listed isolated constituents and pharmacological effects. The Hayas have had a rich herbal folklore, but this is fading due to increasing acculturation and depletion of plant cover. / Cette titre se pouvoir une bref rapport des trente et un plantes associes avec les herbes medicales parmi Hayas, une tribe de Kagera, une rgion du Tanzania. Rapports obtenues des informateurs pendant les etudis dans le champ au mois de juin 1987. Pour chaque espce se prsent nom de botanique, nom de vernaculaire, nombre de rassemblement, localit, l'habitude, repartition et medicales usage. Les donnes sont compare avec les informations obtenues de littraire pour medicales usage et rapport sur isol constituants et les effets de pharmacologie. Les Hayas a eu une riche folklore herbal, mais ce disparaitre de plus en plus de acculturation et du epuisement de converture des plantes. 
40390489|This paper on the most significant edible wild mushrooms of Madagascar is organized in the following four categories: (1) mushrooms of introduced eucalypt plantations, (2) mushrooms of introduced pine plantations, (3) mushrooms of native forests and woodlands, and (4) mushrooms found in fields, agricultural waste and other altered, non-forest habitats. Eucalyptus robusta plantations yield by far the bulk of edible mushrooms that are sold, especially species of Russula and Cantharellus. Some Suillus species of northern hemisphere origin have been introduced with pine plantations and are locally important, forming the basis of a small canning industry. In native woodland areas on the central plateau, several ectomycorrhizal mushroomsvery similar to those on the African mainlandare collected and consumed. With the exception of the widely marketed Cantharellus platyphyllus ssp. bojeriensis, these are only of local importance in the villages and smaller markets of the area. Denser forests in the mountains or on the east coast as well as manmade habitats such as fields, pastures, and agricultural wastes are searched for saprobic mushrooms of various types. Some of these saprobic mushrooms show considerable potential for cultivation. The variety of ectomycorrhizal mushrooms found in eucalypt plantations is unprecedented outside of Australia and, for the most part, do not appear to be of Australian origin. Possible reasons for this are briefly discussed. Two economically important species, Russula prolifica sp. nov. and R. edulis sp. nov., are newly described. /// Les champignons comestibles sauvages de Madagascar sont prsents d'aprs leur appartenance  quatre habitats diffrents: plantations exotiques d'Eucalyptus, plantations exotiques de pins, savanes et forts indignes et, enfin, champs cultives, prairies et dchets agronomiques. Les plantations d'Eucalyptus (en particulier d'E. robusta) produisent de loin la majorit des champignons comestibles mis en vente, surtout chanterelles et russules. Quelques bolets du genre Suillus, manifestement introduits de l'hmisphre nord, pullulent localement sous des pins imports et font l'objet d'une industrie artisanale de conserves. Sur le Haut Plateau, plusieurs espces de champignons ectomycorrhiziques, trs similaires  celles dcrites du continent africain, sont ramasses et consommes dans l'aire des savanes. A l'exception du Cantharellus platyphyllus ssp. bojeriensis  espce trs commune sur les marchs et le long des routes du Haut Plateau, ces diffrentes espces ne reprsentent qu'un intrt local. Les forts denses d'altitude ou le long de la cte Est, ainsi que les habitats crs par l'homme (champs, prairies de pturage, dchets de l'agriculture) sont explores  la recherche d'un nombre de champignons comestibles saprophytes, dont certains  potentiel trs prometteur pour la domestication. La diversit des champignons ectomycorrhiziques associs aux plantations d'eucalyptus dpasse de loin celle observe dans les autres pays ou les eucalyptus ont t introduits par l'homme. L'auteur discute sommairement quelques lments qui ne semblent pas favoriser l'hypothse d'une ventuelle origine australienne pour la plupart de ces champignons. Deux russules comestibles reprsentant un intrt conomique, R. prolifica sp. nov. et R. edulis sp. nov., sont sommairement dcrites comme nouvelles.
4255965|To help feed, clothe, house, improve land productivity, confront difficult resource necessities, and stabilize ravaged land resources through reforestation, there is need for a revitalized worldwide assessment of little-known legume species. Many legumes produce economically important organic compounds such as gums, dyes, pharmaceuticals, pesticides, phytochemicals, and many specialty products. However, most legumes have never been or have just begun to be studied for phytochemical or biologically active components, and new reservoirs of commercially valuable materials remain to be discovered. Not only could these legumes provide healthier and a more secure food supply for Third World countries, but they can protect fragile soil resources where erosion now threatens tragedy. /// Existe la necesidad de una re-evaluacion mundial de especies poco conocidas de leguminosas, para ayudar a alimentar, vestir, dar abrigo, mejorar la productividad de la tierra afrontar la dificil necesidad de recursos, y ayudar a estabilizar las tierras erosionadas por medio de reforestacion. Una gran variedad de leguminosas producen componentes de valor economico tales como tinturas, productos farmaceuticos, fitoquimicos, y muchos otros productos especializados. Sin embargo la mayoria de estas leguminosas nunca han sido, o estan empezando a ser estudiadas por sus componentes activos, biologicos y fitoquimicos, por lo que nuevas fuentas de productos comercialmente importantes estan por ser descubiertas. No solo estas leguminosas pueden proveer paises del tercer mundo con recursos alimenticios mas sanos y abundantes, pero ademas podrian ayudar a proteger el fragil balance de los suelos, en donde la erosion amenza con crear una tragedia.
4256159| The liana Morrenia odorata is a widespread plant of the South American Gran Chaco, where both indigenous and non-indigenous groups use it as a food for much of the year. The fruit is the plant part most commonly eaten but, with the exception of the roots, all the other organs are consumed, though the different ethnic groups vary in their preferences. The resource is prepared in various ways: either raw, in salads, boiled, or roasted. Non-indigenous settlers use only the fruit and seeds, with which they prepare several dishes, including "doca jam," a regional dessert made with the fruit. The indigenous population considers it to be a very wholesome food and, despite the loss of many elements of their traditional diet, this plant continues to be highly valued. Although it is a wild plant, it is protected and even cultivated by several ethnic groups. /// Esta liana es un elemento florstico ampliamente distribuido en el Gran Chaco sudamericano. Los grupos indgenas y los criollos que habitan la regin lo utilizan como alimento a lo largo de gran parte del ao. La porcin ms empleada es el fruto, pero excepto las races, los dems rganos de la planta son consumidos, de acuerdo a las preferencias de los distintos grupos tnicos. Este recurso es preparado de muy diversas maneras: crudos, en ensaladas, hervidos y asados. Los criollos slo usan los frutos y las semillas; con ellos preparan varios platos y, especialmente con los frutos, un postre regional, el "dulce de doca." Los nativos lo consideran un alimento muy saludable y, pese a la prdida de muchos alimentos tradicionales, esta planta conserva su prestigio. Aunque es una planta silvestre, varias etnias la protegen y hasta la siembran. 
4255428| Further evidence on the origin of the cultivated winged bean (Psophocarpus tetragonolobus (L.) DC.) is presented. Recent evidence concerning chromosome numbers of previously unavailable species in the genus and observational evidence of false rust (Synchytrium psophocarpi (Rac.) Gumann) on P. grandiflorus Wilczek in Zare is discussed. Consideration includes previously published studies on morphology and cytology to support an African center of origin and points to P. grandiflorus as the progenitor species of the cultivated winged bean. /// Neue Daten bezglich der Abstammung der kultivierten Goabohne (P. tetragonolobus (L.) DC.) werden vorgelegt. Chromosomenzahlen bislang unzugnglicher Arten der Gattung, sowie Beobachtungen am Falschen Rost (Synchytrium psophocarpi (Rac.) Gumann) auf P. grandiflorus Wilczek werden im Zusammanhang mit bereits publizierten morphologischen und cytologischen Daten diskutiert. Die Ergebnisses untersttzen die Annahme eines Ursprungszentrums der Gattung in Afrika und deuten auf P. grandiflorus als die wilde Urform der Goabohne hin. 
4254853|Resins are an abundant and varied resource in the wet tropical forests of Southeast Asia. These exudates have been found archaeologically in Malaysia and are still exploited extensively by indigenous peoples. This paper analyzes the system of plant classification used by the Semelai of Tasek Bera who still exploit in many traditional ways their local forest resources. Two types of English terminological usage are presented in order to facilitate description of the Semelai classification system. Their complex and interlocking categories reflect the large range of useful, natural substances found in their local environment. It is concluded that an understanding of their classification of plant fluids, which is largely based upon gross morphological features, also requires a knowledge of Semelai torch technology.
4255482|The current views on lentil domestication are based on biological attributes of the wild progenitor Lens culinaris ssp. orientalis and on assumptions which have never been tested. Seed dormancy, a major factor in the adaptation of ssp. orientalis to its natural habitat, makes it inappropriate for cultivation, because poor germination causes seed yield following cultivation to be equal to the amount of sown seeds. Higher yield, resulting from the evolution of a non-dormant type can be obtained only after five or six cycles of unprofitable cultivation. It is doubtful that incipient farmers would have undertaken such an endeavor without preexisting knowledge that non-dormant types could eventually be obtained. Experiments involving the sowing of wild lentil would have been much more successful if the non-dormant types were present in appreciable quantities in the seed stock. Establishment of that type in the natural population would have required a period of seven to eight years with favorable growing conditions allowing the non-dormant type to become widespread in the population, followed by massive predation by man reducing the hazard of a population explosion. The close similarity between isozyme profiles of the cultivated lentil and its wild progenitor indicates that lentil cultivation was attempted with seeds derived from different populations and in different areas.
4287848|About 950 alkaloids have been isolated and named from the two percent of all species which have been tested for them. As a guide in further search for alkaloids, their presence in and absence from some 250 families of plants are here tabulated.
27807240|This study systematizes ethnobotanical information about the interactions between people and plants, ethnofloristic richness, the relative importance of useful species richness in relation to general species richness, and plant management in the TehuacnCuicatln Valley of central Mexico. The study recorded a total of 1,605 useful vascular plant species (61.2% of the total species richness of the regional vascular flora), this being the region with the highest absolute richness of useful plant species in Mexico. The null hypothesis that plant families with a higher number of useful species would be those having a higher general species richness was analyzed through residuals method. The plant families richest in useful species were Poaceae, Asteraceae, Cactaceae, Cyperaceae, Mimosaceae, and Solanaceae, most of which also have the highest general floristic richness. However, analyses of use categories did not generally corroborate our hypothesis. About 1,335 of the useful species are wild, more than 500 species are submitted to some type of management (62 species are tolerated, 34 protected, 50 enhanced, and 358 cultivated), but only a few have been studied to document their process of domestication. This information can be useful for developing regional strategies of sustainable management of plant resources. Este trabajo sistematiza informacin etnobotnica sobre las interacciones entre la gente y las plantas, la riqueza etnoflorstica, la importancia relativa de las especies tiles con respecto a la riqueza florstica general, y sobre el manejo de plantas en el Valle de TehuacnCuicatln, en el centro de Mxico. Se registr un total de 1,605 especies de plantas vasculares tiles (61.2% de la riqueza total de la flora vascular de la regin), lo que identifica a la regin como la de mayor riqueza de plantas tiles de Mxico en trminos absolutos. Mediante el mtodo de residuales se analiz la hiptesis nula de que las familias con mayor nmero de especies tiles seran las de mayor riqueza florstica. Se encontr que las familias con mayor nmero de especies tiles fueron Poaceae, Asteraceae, Cactaceae, Cyperaceae, Mimosaceae, y Solanaceae, las cuales en su mayora son las de mayor riqueza florstica en la regin. No obstante, al efectuar el anlisis por categoras de uso no siempre se confirm nuestra hiptesis. Casi 1,335 de las plantas tiles son silvestres, pero alrededor de 500 estn sometidas a algn tipo de manejo (62 especies son toleradas, 34 protegidas, 50 fomentadas y 358 cultivadas), pero slo para algunas de ellas se ha estudiado cmo operan los proceso de domesticacin. La informacin generada en el trabajo puede ser til para el desarrollo de estrategias regionales de manejo sustentable de los recursos vegetales.
4256547| Rural communities in South Africa harvest a diversity of wild resources from communal woodlands for home consumption and sale. The contribution these resources make to the rural economy has been little recognized, and few studies have attempted to place a monetary value on this use. This paper describes three case studies which aimed to determine the value of savanna resources for the livelihoods of rural households. Use patterns and values of resources in three villages of differing socioeconomic status were determined using household interviews, PRA techniques and key informant interviews. Questions were designed to establish the types of products used, frequency of use, quantities used, seasonality of use, longevity of durable resources, local prices, and the extent of trade. All households were procuring at least some woodland resources, with the most frequently used being fuel wood, wood for implements, edible herbs and fruits, grass for brushes, and insects. Patterns of resource use varied across villages. The most "rural" village used the greatest diversity of resources and had the highest number of users for most resources. Gross value of resources consumed per household per year ranged from R2819 to R7238. Total value was highest in the less obviously resource dependent village, primarily the result of higher local prices due to greater extraction costs and a larger market for traded goods. Values are comparable to those contributed by other land-based livelihood activities such as subsistence cultivation and livestock production. /// Les communauts rurales en Afrique du Sud rcoltent une varit de ressources naturelles provenant de rgions boises qui appartiennent  la communaut pour la consommation personnelle et pour la vente. La contribution que ces resources apportent  l'conomie rurale a t peu reconnue, et peu d'tudes ont tent d'assigner une valeur montaire  ces usages. Cet article dcrit trois cas d'tude qui ont pour but de dterminer la valeur des ressources de la savane dans la vie des familles rurales. Les motifs d'utilisation et les valeurs des ressources furent estimes dans trois villages de statuts socio-conomiques diffrents, en combinant entretiens avec les familles, techniques de PRA et entretiens de sources cls. Les questions furent conues afin d'tablir les types de produits utiliss dans chaque maisonne, la frquence d'utilisation, les quantits utilises, le degr d'utilisation par saison, la longvit de ressources durables, le prix locaux et l'tendue du march. Chaque famille se procure au moins quelques unes des ressources provenant de rgions boises; les plus utilises sont le bois de chauffage, le bois pour les outils, les herbes et fruits comestibles, l'herbe pour les brosses et les insectes. Les motifs d'utilisation ont vari selon les villages. Les villages les plus "ruraux" utilisaient la plus grande varit de ressources et possdaient une nombres d'usagers plus important dans le cas de la plupart des ressources. La valeur totale brute des ressources consommes par maisonne par anne variait entre R2819 et R7238. La valeur totale s'est avre tre plus leve dans les villages qui semblaient dpendre le moins sur les ressources: ceci tant le rsultat de prix locaux plus levs bass sur des cots d'extraction plus importants et un march pour les biens changs (non-vendus). Les valeurs obtenues sont comparables  celles contribues par d'autres activits qui servent de moyens d'existence et qui proviennent de la terre; par exemple, la culture comme moyen de subsistence et l'levage de btail. 
4257087| A survey of anthropological, archaeological, botanical, and historical literature reveals that two species of fox-tail millet were domesticated in the Old World (S. italica, S. pumila), and one may have been domesticated in the New World (S. parviflora). Others were prehistorically and historically gathered and eaten as cereal starch sources, including S. liebmannii, S. macrostachya, S. pallide-fusca, S. palmifolia, S. parviflora, S. pumila, S. sphacelata, S. verticillata, S. viridis, and perhaps others. The American species are briefly discussed and compared with the Old World plants, and a synopsis of food changes is presented. /// Una revisin de la literatura antropologica, archeologica, historica y botanica revela que dos especies de mijo (cola de zorro, cola de ardilla) fueron domesticadas en el Viejo Mundo (S. italica, S. pumila), y una especie (S. parviflora) quiza pudo haber sido domesticada en el Nuevo Mundo. Otras especies, tanto prehistoricamente como historicamente, fueron recogidas como cereales e ingeridas como fuentes de almidon, incluyendo S. liebmannii, S. macrostachya, S. pallide-fusca, S. palmifolia, S. parviflora, S. pumila, S. sphacelata, S. verticillata, S. viridis, y quiza otras especies. Las especies Americanas son brevemente comparadas y analizadas con respecto a las plantas del Viejo Mundo, tambien se presenta una sinopsis de los cambios en la alimentacion. 
4254137|Quantitative methods of analysis of the data accumulated by European archaeobotanists over the last 30 years allow the agricultural history of Europe and the Near East to be seen in a new perspective. The histories of the major crop plants appear to be fairly simple, but there seem to have been at least two kinds of free-threshing wheat in cultivation at different times in prehistoric Europe. The evidence suggests that rye was a secondary crop associated with the later of these wheats. While the patterns of crop exploitation seem interpretable in terms of natural ecology only in the very earliest periods, they appear to have cultural correlations and may have some archaeological significance.
4254460|This is a descriptive summary of information on traditional and modern uses of native plants by Alyawara-speaking Australian Aborigines. It includes data on 157 species, 92 of which are used for food, 28 for medicines and narcotics, and 10 in the manufacture of tools, weapons and other gear. Descriptions of food plants cover form and distribution, collecting and processing techniques, caloric yields, and dietary importance. The paper concludes with some comments on traditional plant cultivation practices.
4255132|More than 18,000 accessions of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris, Fabaceae) from the Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (CIAT) germplasm bank were examined at two locations in Colombia. A large variation in cultivated dry bean was found among accessions from primary centers of domestication in Middle and South America. For some bean types, such as medium- and large-seeded white, variation was greater among germplasm from western Asia (Turkey) and Europe (Portugal, Spain, Greece, France, Italy, and Bulgaria). Based on growth habit, on seed, pod, and leaf characteristics, and on ecological regions of adaptation, dry-bean germplasm was divided into a total of six gene pools from Middle American and four gene pools from South American centers of domestication. Most of the variation in the snap or stringless bean appears to be of relatively recent origin; it was greatest among cultivars from China, Europe, and the United States. These could be grouped into two additional gene pools. A strategy for breeding and transfer of genes across gene pools is also discussed.
4252376|The commercial use of the exudation of several species of Couma as a source of gutta-gum is of recent development. Although the edible fruits have been known in the Amazon basin since prehistoric time, and the coagulated latex, or coagulum, is favored by the South American Indian for caulking dugouts and canoes, the utilization of this gutta-gum in industry, especially in the United States, began only about 30 years ago.
4287944|Addition of dehydrated alfalfa can eliminate the formation of scale in a sea-water evaporator. This article compares the scale-preventing ability of each of four dehydrated plant species, to the previously proven ability of dehydrated alfalfa.
4253755|Antimicrobial activity of 105 Indian plant species was tested. Among them, 30 showed antibacterial activity; 20 of these exhibited antifungal action as well. Seeds of Carum copticum, stem of Pinus longifolia, roots of Plumbago zeylanica and Saussurea lappa, and rhizome of Alpinia officinarum have considerable antifungal activity, especially against pathogenic fungi. Antibiotic activity against a wide variety of microorganisms-pathogenic and nonpathogenic gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, yeast, and fungi-was also noted with leaves of Lawsonia inermis, roots of Plumbago zeylanica, and fruits of Tamarindus indica, Terminalia belerica, and Emblica officinalis.
4257020|This article describes the market for medicinal plants sold in the Vietnamese town of Sapa as well as in nine different markets in the Vietnamese capital city, Hanoi. A total of 44 medicinal plants were identified botanically, 27 of which are on sale in Sapa and 28 in Hanoi. Most buyers of medicinal plants in Sapa are members of the Vietnamese middle classes who go to Sapa on holidays. Medicinal plants are gathered or cultivated predominantly by members of ethnic minority groups (Hmong and Dao) who live in small hamlets, some located several hours from the town of Sapa. Sapa is one of the poorest districts in Vietnam with a GDP per household of only U.S. $322 in 2005, so the cash that people are able to earn from the sale of medicinal plants is very important. The article argues that the social roles of the weekend market in Sapa are equally important, as the market helps ethnic minorities to fulfil their needs for a social life beyond the village.
4255115| Finding new ways to increase usage of germplasm from national genebanks for crop improvement remains an international challenge. Collections still appear deficient both in the quality and quantity of the data that describe the samples and this is clearly limiting the flow of material. Based on a survey of European breeders for two crops, it appears that breeders in developed countries often maintain substantial working collections and furthermore that material from these collections is commonly exchanged among the breeders. While the variability in toto in these working collections generally appears to be more than adequate for most present needs, there is a strong and continuing interest by breeders in gaining access to novel variability. It is suggested that to maximize the utility of collections, increased emphasis should be placed on studying and assembling small sub-collections that contain representative samples of the available diversity. /// Jusqu' prsent il demeure difficile de trouver des solutions satisfaisantes  un niveau international pour accrotre l'usage des ressources gntiques des banques de gnes et permettre ainsi unmeilleur dveloppement des espces cultives. En effet les collections paraissent encore dficientes dans la qualit et la quantit des informations donnes sur les chantillons, ce qui est un des facteurs limitant leur usage. D'aprs une enqute faite chez les amliorateurs europens, pour deux espces diffrentes, les amliorateurs des pays dvelopps entretiennent gnralement d'importantes collections prives et les chantillons de ces collections forment souvent une base d'changes. Bien que la diverssit disponible dans ces collections prives semble tre plus que suffisante pour la plupart des besoins actuels, les amliorateurs continuent  manifester un trs grand intrt pour obtenir de nouvelles sources de diversit gntique. Afin de pouvoir accrotre l'usage des banques de gnes publiques, une des solutions propose est d'assembler et d'tudier plus en dtail pour chaque banque de gnes des sous-collections qui seraient reprsentatives de la diversit disponible dans l'ensemble de la collection. 
4255964| The distribution, and the morphological and genetic variation of the cultivated taxa of the genus Leucaena (especially L. esculenta, guaje rojo and guaje colorado, and L. leucocephala, guaje verde and guaje blanco, are discussed in terms of their long history as arboreal food resources. In order to understand the domestication process it is essential to understand the changes in management, diffusion and importance of this natural resource throughout the prehistoric, prehispanic, colonial, modern and contemporary periods of Mexican history. In this article the principal documents of the contact period (Florentine Codex, writings of Francisco Hernndez and sixteenth century Relaciones Geogrficas) are analyzed to examine the effect of culture change on the domestication process. The persistence of Prehispanic uses and management of Leucaena as a source of food is documented. Today's patterns appear to be both a product of neglect of the plant by the conquerors, and the cultural resilience of the native people. /// La actual situacin de los taxa cultivados del gnero Leucaena-principalmente Leucaena esculenta (guaje rojo, guaje colorado) y L. leucocephala (guaje verde o g. blanco)-en trminos de distribucin, variacin y gentica, resulta de una larga historia. Para estudiar el proceso de domesticacin se deben conocer los cambios en el manejo, la difusin y la importancia de este recurso natural a lo largo de los principales periodos histricos: prehistrico, prehispnico, colonial, moderno y actual. En este artculo se analizan los documentos ms importantes del perodo de contacto; Cdice Florentino, obra de Francisco Hernndez y Relaciones Geogrficas del siglo XVI; permitiendo tener un panorama de los cambios desde la conquista ocurridos como consecuencia del proceso de aculturacin, para contribuir al estudio del proceso de domesticacin. Se encontr conservacin del uso y del manejo de estos rboles utilizados como alimento. Esto parece ser resultado tanto del desinters de los colonizadores por el uso de la planta como de la resistencia cultural de los indgenas. 
4257144| In the present study we analyzed medicinal and edible plant utilization in Cuyin Manzano, a small rural population located near the Andean forests of Argentina. We also studied where and when plant knowledge was learned, who the principal transmitters were, and how people were taught. The participants were interviewed individually and at random, by means of a semi-structured questionnaire. Interviews were carried out in 16 families in order to examine the present use of wild plants. The inhabitants of Cuyin Manzano cited 87 plants: 63 medicinal and 24 edible species. They mentioned on average 31  10 species per person. Similar patterns of plant use were found in young and old people alike, irrespective of gender. Learning about useful plants took place at an early age as a result of family tradition. This local knowledge is acquired and taught "by doing," and is mostly transmitted vertically through family dissemination. Wild plant learning implies the acquisition of plants' physical and functional features as well as their environmental characteristics. 
4251986|Accroides, Congo, damar, boea, elemi, kauri, mastic and other commercially valuable resins are exudations of a variety of trees and shrubs in many parts of the world. Their industrial applications range from adhesives and incense through inks and oilcloth to textile sizing and wax compositions.
4255224| The possible contribution of pion (Pinus edulis) seed to the diet of an Anasazi population is investigated using present data on seed productivity and archaeological data on resource use. Annual estimates of total productivity for a 135.7 sq km study area in Montezuma County, Colorado, vary by a factor of 141 in a sample spanning 5 yr. Trees greater than about 25 cm (basal diameter) are usually monoecious and produce significantly more cones per tree but fewer good seeds per cone than smaller, usually dioecious specimens. Archaeological data suggest that pion seed was a relatively unimportant food item after the initial period of Anasazi colonization of the Dolores River valley about A.D. 600. Use of pion seed as food was inversely related to degree of agricultural intensification and use of pion for fuel. /// La posible contribucin de la semilla de pino (Pinus edulis) para la dieta de una poblacin Anasazi es investigada usando informacin sobre la productividad de la semilla e informacin arqueolgica en el uso de este recurso. Se estima que anvalmente la productividad de la semilla de pino en un area de 135.7 km
4253681| Five species of Panax native of China are used in medicine. Ginseng, the best known, is prepared from the root of P. ginseng C. A. Meyer. It is a tonic prescribed primarily for the restoration of strength in weak people. San-ch'i, a product prepared from the root of P. pseudoginseng Wall., is a pain reliever and a hemostatic. It is prescribed for cancer, boils, swellings, bleeding, bruises, internal hemorrhages and irregular menses. Commercial products of these species are prepared from cultivated plants. Other species of Panax - P. bipinnatifidum Seem., P. japonicum C. A. Meyer, and P. major (Burk.) Ting - are used in folk medicine by people living in the mountains. This article deals with botanical descriptions and geographical and ecological notes of the species, the preparation, identification and marketing of the products, and the pharmacological aspects of the drugs. It also contains a list of 22 species of sng-producing plants in 12 genera and seven families of Dicotyledoneae other than Araliaceae. 
4287976|Recent studies seem to confirm that Ethiopia should definitely be considered as the native home of Coffea arabica L. Good natural conditions make this country the main exporter of this type of coffee in Africa and potentially one of the most important producers in the world. There is such a great genetical variation among the "wild" coffees that they constitute the best sources of germ plasm now available for programs of improvement of the species. Already some trees have been found resistant or immune to all the cultures of the main rust organism with which they were inoculated.
4256100|Fuelwood is a predominant source of domestic energy for the Soliga, an aboriginal tribe, and non-Soliga people inhabiting the core and the fringe of the Biligiri Rangaswamy Temple (BRT) wildlife sanctuary in Karnataka, India. Approximately 7000 Soliga and 66 000 non-Soliga people depend on the 540 km
4256912| A field study in the Cofre de Perote region found that edible mushrooms play an important role in the socio-economics activities of the local population. Several very old common names indicate a long-standing traditional knowledge about this regional resource. Recent changes in marketing mushrooms are evident. /// Una investigacin en la regin del Cofre de Perote sobre los hongos silvestres tiles y comestibles se llev a cabo durante el curso de micologa por los estudiantes y profesores y encontr que los hongos comestibles en la regin juegan un papel socio-econmico importante en las actividades de la poblacin local, varios nombres locales muy viejos indican que tan antiguo es el conocimiento sobre este recurso en este lugar. Cambios recientes en el mercado de los hongos evidentes. 
4251990|The present author regards pop corn not as a species or sub-species but as a mutant of flint corn which probably arose on more than one occasion in both pre- and post- Columbian times, and was recognized and propagated not by aboriginal Indians but by the white man in North America as an outgrowth of Indian parching corn.
27807213|Archaeological studies in Mexico's Tehuacn Valley that were conducted during the 1960s revealed that the prehistoric use of "pochote" Ceiba aesculifolia was mainly for its edible roots and seeds. Recent ethnobotanical studies in the villages of Coxcatln, San Rafael, and San Jos Tilapa, municipality of Coxcatln, Puebla, documented that currently seeds are the most important plant parts of this tree used in the region. Local people recognize three morphological types of pochote trees: the purple-reddish, the pale green, and the dark-green reddish fruit variants, the first two being preferred because of their larger and more abundant seeds. This study documents the patterns of morphological variation of C. aesculifolia in human-managed and unmanaged populations in the communities just mentioned in order to analyze whether management has been directed to favor abundance of morphological types preferred by people. The main morphological types named by people were characterized by morphometric studies, and their frequencies in populations under different management intensity were evaluated through vegetation sampling. The morphometric studies corroborated that the morphological types recognized by people are identifiable groups, whereas vegetation sampling revealed that pochote variants preferred by people (the purple-reddish fruit type) were relatively more abundant in human-managed areas than in natural vegetation. This information suggests the occurrence of artificial selection associated with in situ management of this plant species. Estudios arqueolgicos en el Valle de Tehuacn realizados durante los 1960s revelaron que el "pochote" Ceiba aesculifolia, fue usado en la prehistoria principalmente por sus races y semillas comestibles. Estudios etnobotnicos recientes en las comunidades de Coxcatln, San Rafael y San Jos Tilapa, municipio de Coxcatln, Puebla, han documentado que actualmente las semillas son la parte de este rbol que es ms usada en la regin, y que la gente local reconoce tres tipos morfolgicos de frutos producidos por rboles de pochote: prpura rojizo, verde plido y verde obscuro rojizo, siendo los dos primeros los que son preferidos debido a que producen ms semillas y de mayor tamao. Este estudio document los patrones de variacin morfolgica de Ceiba aesculifolia en poblaciones no manejadas y manejadas por la gente de las comunidades anteriormente mencionadas, con el fin de analizar si el manejo ha favorecido la abundancia de los tipos morfolgicos preferidos por la gente. Los principales tipos morfolgicos reconocidos por la gente fueron caracterizados mediante estudios morfomtricos y sus frecuencias en las poblaciones bajo diferentes intensidades de manejo fueron evaluadas a travs de muestreos de vegetacin. El estudio morfomtrico revel que los tipos morfolgicos reconocidos por la gente corresponden a grupos identificables, mientras los muestreos de vegetacin revelaron que las variantes preferidas por la gente (frutos prpura rojizos) fueron relativamente ms abundantes en las reas manejadas que en la vegetacin natural. La informacin sugiere la existencia de seleccin artificial asociada a manejo in situ de esta especie.
4252420|Modern sugar cane varieties are derived from interspecific crosses involving as many as four species. Because a chromosome increase accompanies certain crosses and backcrosses, modern varieties have very high aneuploid chromosome numbers and complicated genetics. Despite this complexity, the chromosome behavior of some modern varieties approaches that of allopolyploids. In achieving homozygosity, therefore, such varieties should respond to inbreeding almost like diploids. The meiotic chromosome behavior of F
4256146| The climate of Yunnan province ranges from humid tropical to subtropical. Wild edible fruits form an important dietary component of the ethnic groups in the south of Yunnan Province, which is famous for its rich diversity in both biological resources and ethnic culture, and A list of 123 different fruits is presented, which includes the folk names used by Dai, Hani, Bulang, Jinuo, and others; distribution; uses and the nutritional contents of 52 different species (edible part percentage, moisture, total sugar, titratable acid, vitamin C, crude fat, crude fiber, starch, and soluble tannin). /// Dieses Papier behandelt die wilden, ebaren Frchte, welche von den ethnischen Gruppen im Sden der Yunnan Provinz genutzt werden. Diese Region in China ist gut bekannt fr ihre hohe Diversitt in den Bereichen biologische Ressourcen und ethnologische Kultur. Das Klima variiert von tropisch humid bis subtropisch. Es wird ein Liste mit 123 verschiedenen Frchten vorgestellt, welche die Namen der lokalen Bevlkerung beinhaltet (wie die der Dai, Hanim, Bulang, Jinuo etc.), ebenso Verteilung und Gebrauchsart. Auerdem werden zu 52 Arten Angaben ber die ernhrungsphysiologischen Zusammensetzung gemacht (ebarer Teil in Gewichtsprozent, Wassergehalt, Zuckergehalt, tritierbare Suren, Vitamin C-Gehalt, Fettgehalt, Ballaststoffgehalt, Strkegehalt, lslicher Tanningehalt). 
4253430|Five species of Dimorphotheca, seventeen species of Osteospermum, and one species each of Castalis and Chrysanthemoides were evaluated at Chico, California for crop potential as a source of dimorphecolic acid. Several species including D. sinuata were highly susceptible to a number of diseases. Date of planting strongly influenced flowering period of D. sinuata and D. pluvialis. D. cuneata showed the most promise for crop development. It had limited disease, relatively good seed retention and cold-tolerance, and considerable variability. With improved disease resistance, D. cuneata could be handled as a perennial seed crop. Its lightweight seed, an important disadvantage, is associated with a high proportion of winged to unwinged seeds. Osteospermum caulescens, O. ecklonis, and O. muricatum also have characteristics that favor crop development. O. ecklonis probably could be handled effectively as a winter annual. Seed of these three species had bushel weights of 30 to 41 pounds, compared with four to five pounds for D. cuneata and D. sinuata. Some preliminary germination work showed seed dormancy, which is probably associated with an after-ripening requirement. Overall, the agronomic characteristics that need improvement were disease resistance, seed retention, and seed form. Prospects for agronomic improvement of the most promising species should be good, because variability was evident even in small test populations.
4254686|Folk names and uses for martyniaceous plants are detailed by literature references, data from herbarium specimens and fieldwork in Mexico and the United States. There is a diversity of names and uses in Mexico because of the large number of species and the many different cultures there. Seeds, roots, and leaves of species of Proboscidea are gathered and consumed as food. Leaves of Martynia are used to remove insects from fowl in Mexico and Guatemala, and its fruits are used medicinally in the former country. Most Mexican common names for martyniaceous plants are descriptive, and the folk taxonomies for these plants often agree with scientific taxonomies. The showy and fragrant flowers and oddly-shaped fruits of Proboscidea, Ibicella, and Martynia led to their cultivation as ornamentals in the United States and Europe. The common names for martyniaceous plants in European languages are generally variations of devil's claw, cat's claw, or unicorn plants. Young fruits of Proboscidea and Ibicella are eaten as vegetables and pickles in the United States, South America, and Europe. Mature fruits of Proboscidea are widely used as ornaments. Roots from species of Craniolaria are consumed as food or medicine in South America and the Antilles.
4252124|Numerous surveys have demonstrated the wide occurrence of active antimicrobial substances in higher plants. The array of compounds with unique structures which plants produce has served as a stimulus to continued search for useful antibiotics. Reports referred to in the table indicate that active substances have been found in plants from 157 families.
4251904|About 125,000,000 pounds of castor oil are annually used in the United States in the manufacture of paints and varnishes, fatty acids, sulphonated oils, soap and other important products, 95% of which is imported either as seed or expressed oil. Attempts are now being made to revive a former American industry in the growing of domestic crops.
4287882|This minor industry of Hawaii, second to coffee in acreage and value, covers only about 3,000 acres and produced less than 500 tons of unshelled nuts, valued at about $160,000 in 1954. Growth of the industry has been so great, however, that within a few years it is expected to be the principle tree crop of the Islands.
4255335| Essential oils were examined in nine clones of Mentha arvensis, four clones of M. spicata, and 20 clones of M.  gracilis. An F
4256919|This paper reports the use of Brugmansia species (Solanaceae) in traditional practices of shamans (curanderos) of Northern Peruvian Andes. The field study permitted the classification of a number of species and/or their hybrids used for both curative and psychotropic activities. There is evidence of a folk systematics in this genus that constitutes a very important phenomenon for its therapeutic-divinatory, phytotherapeutical, and ritual (in initiation and black magic rites) uses.
4254278|Water hyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes), duckweed (Spirodela sp. and Lemna sp.), water pennywort (Hydrocotyle ranunculoides), and kudzu (Pueraria lobata) were anaerobically fermented using an anaerobic filter technique that reduced the total digestion time from 90 d to an average of 23 d and produced 0.14-0.22 m
4255936| A dynamic exchange of wild medicinal plants between different physiographic areas in Mexico is documented through the study of two regional trade warehouses. These warehouses receive medicinal species from their own botanical environments (31%) but also from other remote places of gathering (69%). A list of medicinal plants from external sources at these warehouses is presented, including their zones of origin and uses as reported by traders. Ecological diversity allows the configuration of a commercial network between regional traders; market produce varies according to the physiographic zones involved. Regional warehouses and traders are the basic units in this network and link diverse economies, natural environments and cultures. Within this setting, according to merchants' testimony, the access to some wild, external species is progressively hampered, as it is the case of Valeriana edulis or Smilax aristolochiaefolia, as a result of increased national and foreign demand. /// Mediante el estudio de dos centros regionales de acopio de plantas medicinales se detecta un dinmico intercambio de especies silvestres entre diversas provincias fisiogrficas mexicanas. Estas bodegas reciben plantas provenientes de su propia regin (31%), pero tambin de zonas remotas de colecta (69%). Se presenta una relacin de especies provenientes de zonas lejanas de acuerdo con sus fuentes y usos segn los acopiadores. La diversidad ecolgica permite la conformacin de una red comercial cuya oferta diferencial puede ser analizada en trminos espaciales a travs de las provincias fisiogrficas involucradas. Los centros de acopio y acopiadores regionales constituyen unidades bsicas en esta red, enlazando diversas economas, ambientes naturales y culturas. En este contexto, la disponibilidad de ciertas especies silvestres en los ltimos aos ha disminudo de acuerdo con los acopiadores, por ejemplo Valeriana edulis o Smilax aristolochiaefolia, dada una creciente demanda nacional y extranjera. 
4253354|A systematic screening of 170 different West Bengal plants was carried out to find antifungal antibiotics, using Aspergillus niger and Trichophyton rubrum as test organisms. From them, four plant species, viz. Curcuma zedoaria, C. aromatica, C. amada, and a Brassica sp. have been found to contain active antibiotic principles with strong inhibitory effects against both test organisms.
4251936|Alfalfa, the most important forage crop grown in the United States, is harvested in this country from 15 million acres, and in the 1946-1947 season yielded 34 million tons of hay used principally for feeding stock. About 700,000 tons of alfalfa meal are used in mixed feeds, primarily for poultry, and also serve as a source for extraction of carotene, chlorophyll and xanthophyll.
4254008|This paper deals with the ethnobotany of 48 plants from Northeastern India. The information was derived from specimens deposited in the herbarium of the Botanical Survey of India at Shillong (ASSAM). Vernacular names of plants and voucher specimens are mentioned. The importance of ethnobotanical studies of herbarium materials is discussed.
4255770| Basketry production is an important informal sector activity in the palm savanna of north-central Namibia, particularly for women. This study assesses the comparative impact of utilization by basket makers and browsing livestock in areas of different human and livestock population pressures on the source of weaving fibre, leaves from juvenile individuals of the vegetable ivory palm, Hyphaene petersiana. Mature individuals of this species are an important source of edible fruit. Destructive uses of mature individuals such as tapping for palm wine and the cutting of stems for construction purposes are also practised, even though they are forbidden by customary law. Unlike other centres of basket production in southern Africa, the level of leaf utilization for basketry is low and there is potential for greater use of this resource. Despite the unpalatability of this species, a cause for concern, however, is the intensity of browsing by domestic livestock on young palms, which may affect the future structure and viability of the palm population in north-central Namibia. This predicted degradation of a multiple-use species such as H. petersiana represents the gradual erosion of an important buffer against rural poverty, loss of income and reduction in food security. / Etungo lyimbale olyi li omahupilo goomeme yamwe mboka yeli moshitopolwa shopokati shaWambo. Oshinyolwa shika otashi konaakona oshilanduli sheindjipalo lyaakalimo nolyiitungwa komuti gwedhina Hyphaene petersiana (omulunga), ngoka ogwo onza yiitungitho yiilikolomwa ya tumbulwa pombanda. Pakuyelaka nomahala gamwe muAfrika lyokuumbugantu moka hamu tungwa oontungwa, elongitho lyoombale mOwambo olyi li pevi, nelongitho lyolunza nduka otashi vulika li nenepalekwe. Unanapelo woondoongi, iikombo noongombe kiiyale otau eta omalimbililo notashi vulika u ete po omukundu gwopamahupilo komeho. Ehanagulo po lyomiti dhiiyimati ngaashi Hyphaene petersiana otaili shonopaleke oshikandekitho sholuhepo notashi vulika shi fale sigo omekanitho lyiikulya miitopolwa yomomikunda. [OSHIWAMBO] A produo de centos e outros artigos de vime  uma actividade importante do sector naoconvencional em Owambo, no norte da Namibia, particularmente para as mulheres. Este estudo investiga o impacto da produo de cestos e da explorao por parte de populao humana na planta que fornece as fibras, a palmeira Marfim Vegetal ou Hyphaene petersiana. Contrriamente ao que se verifica em outros centros de produo de cestos na Africa Austral, o grau de utilizao da folha da palmeira nao  elevado e a potencialidade existe para o uso mais intensivo deste recurso vegetal.  no entanto motivo de preocupao o pastar intenso de gado bovino, de cabras e de burros que comem as palmeiras jovens o que provvelmente afectar a estrutura e a viabilidade da populao de palmeiras no futuro. A degradao de plantas produtoras de frutos comestiveis como a Hyphaene representa o esgotamento de uma defesa importante contra a pobreza das populaoes rurais. 
41408261|The last 50 years have seen tremendous innovations in the process of discovering novel bioactive compounds from plants. Every stage of the natural products discovery and development pipeline has seen major advances, so as a result, today it is possible to evaluate large numbers of plant extracts efficiently and in more effective ways against a wider array of disease targets. Despite all of these technological advances and numerous large-scale discovery efforts, the number of new drugs developed as natural products from plants to reach the market has been surprisingly low, very different from the continuing productive discovery work from microbes. The innovations in the discovery process are reviewed, possible explanations for low success of recent discovery efforts are explored, and an effort is made to estimate the future potential of plants as a discovery resource. It may be that the low rate of discovery during this developmental period of natural products discovery is a consequence of technological limitations of the discovery process rather than a lack of interesting compounds in plants, and that even when necessary assumptions are taken into account, conservative estimates would indicate great potential for the discovery of new drugs from plants.
4251913|The ancestral form of the cultivated tomato was originally confined to the Peru-Ecuador area. After spreading north possibly as a weed in pre-Columbian times it was not extensively domesticated until it reached Mexico, and from there the cultivated forms were disseminated.
4251925|Essential oils can be produced in this country, but extensive investigations and careful planning are of prime importance.
41242931|Broomcorn in South Eastern Europe (SEE) is part of an important niche market of natural, renewable brooms made from the panicles of sorghum. This article is a summary of almost 60 years of experiences concerning broomcorn research, development, and production in SEE, and more specifically in Serbia. The botanical classification, origin, history, morphology, production, cultivar choice, certified seed, improvement, and utilization of broomcorn are discussed. Its improvement through breeding and production research includes various panicle quality traits, like optimization of fiber length, improving fiber fineness and appearance, elimination of undesirable red discoloration, and adapting the crop to mechanical harvest. Broomcorn could become a suitable feed, energy, or fiber crop if improvements in seed quality, as well as stalk biomass, juiciness, and sweetness are undertaken. Broomcoms will continue to play an important role in Serbian agriculture and work will continue to breed for improvements of the crop to benefit broomcorn farmers throughout Europe and the world. U Jugoistonoj Evropi sirak metla ini deo specijalizovanog trita prirodnih, biorazgradivih, metli izraenih od metlica sirka. Ovaj rad je rezime skoro 60 godina iskustva na istraivanju i unapreenju proizvodnje sirka metlaa u Jugoistonoj Evropi, tanije u Srbiji. Obraeni su botanika klasifikacija, poreklo, istorijat, morfologija, proizvodnja, izbor sorti, sortno seme, kao i unapreenje proizvodnje i korienja sirka metlaa. Unapreenje proizvodnje kroz oplemenjivanje i istraivanje naina gajenja obuhvata razne osobine kvaliteta metlice kao to su optimalizacija duine peteljki, poboljanje finoe i izgleda peteljki, eliminacija nepoeljnog crvenila i prilagoavanje biljke mehanizovanoj etvi. Sirak metla bi mogao postati pogodan za stonu hranu, za dobijanje energije ili vlakna, ako bi se poboljao kvalitet zrna i prinos biomase, sonost i slatkoa stabla. Sirak metla e nastaviti da igra vanu ulogu u poljoprivredi Srbije, a rad na oplemenjivanju i unapreenju proizvodnje ove biljke e biti od koristi proizvoaima u Evropi i u svetu.
4255021|Three species of edible tubers endemic to and domesticated in the Andes were studied for their nutritional value. Collected samples of Oxalis tuberosa, Ullucus tuberosus, and Tropaeolum tuberosum show a high amount of variation in both percent protein and quality of essential amino acids. A protein difference of 120% is present among T. tuberosum cultivars and a protein difference of 300% is present among the three species. The data indicate that previous published Andean tuber crop food values may need revision. The introduction of "improved" crop varieties and less nutritious foodstuffs threatens the base of cultivar diversity that has been selected by Andean agriculturists over centuries. This rapid erosion of Andean tuber diversity indicates the importance of identifying and conserving Andean tuber cultivars throughout the Andes.
4256522|Because biodiversity is debated primarily from western perspectives, the significance of threatened taxa has not been properly assessed in the cultural and ecological contexts of their use. Instead, conservable species tend to be identified by outsiders who are culturally and politically detached from the threatened environments. However, over the last decade or so a growing number of studies document why and how indigenous knowledge and people can become part of development and sustainable conservation. Presented here is a Nigerian example that illustrates how formal conservation efforts are handicapped by their failure to take into account local environmental knowledge. I argue that the potential erosion of biodiversity in Hausaland has been checked by the varied management of cultivated and other lands, and by the use of plants in overlapping contexts-as medicines, foods, and the like.
4255023|Icacina oliviformis is an underexploited, suffrutescent, savannah pyrophyte used for its edible seeds, tuberous roots, and fruit mesocarp in many areas of west and north-central Africa. The large seeds provide a relied-upon resource in Senegal, Guinea-Bissau, and the Central African Republic at the end of the dry season when food reserves in the villages are at their lowest annual levels. The tuberous roots, sometimes weighing over 50 kg, provide a rich source of starch in times of famine. This species deserves consideration for use in extensive agroforestry schemes in savannah habitats of west-central Africa.
4256871|Darnel (Lolium temulentum L.) is a mimic weed associated with wheat and barley cultivation. Mimic weeds have evolved along with cultivated crops. Human impact on the genetic diversity of agricultural weeds was elucidated using darnel as a model. Three strains in each field in Gaitza village, Malo region, Ethiopia were randomly sampled, and the genetic composition of 120 samples was analyzed using RAPD analysis. Genetic diversity and distances were calculated using Nei's analysis, and cluster analysis was performed. These results indicated the occurrence of seed migration among the fields and a high genetic diversity of darnel in this region. Crop seed exchange and contamination of crop seeds with darnel seeds lead to the unintended artificial gene flow of darnel. Because darnel seeds and seedlings resemble their associated crop seeds and seedlings, traditional methods of crop cultivation have the unintended consequence of conserving the genetic diversity of darnel.
4254761|This paper attempts to answer the question: What is the dollar value that can be placed on a single plant species now growing in the United States, should it become extinct? Based on available botanical and prescription survey data and data on global studies of plants as a source of new drugs for human use, the value of a single species is calculated to be $203 million, and the total value of plant species growing in the United States that may become extinct by the year 2000 AD is calculated to be about $3.248 billion.
4254675|This paper is devoted to the analysis of the 4,451 soybean (Glycine max) accessions collected by P. H. Dorsett and W. J. Morse during their plant exploration trip to east Asia 1929-1931. Until about 1950 the collection was used primarily for the development of vegetable type soybean cultivars. During this period many of the accessions were lost. Today only 945 of the original 4,451 accessions are available in the United States soybean germplasm collection. From the 1950s to the 1980s, as soybean production increased in the United States, so did plant pathogen problems. The Dorsett-Morse soybean accessions have been extremely valuable to plant pathologists and breeders as sources of resistance to certain pathogens. Individual genotypes in the collection have been used for genetic studies on morphological, physiological and biochemical traits. Due to the development and distribution of higher-yielding soybean cultivars, farmers in east Asia are no longer growing lower-yielding landraces. Although these landraces are now extinct in east Asia, many were collected by Dorsett and Morse and are preserved in the United States soybean collection. Over the years, the Dorsett-Morse collection has increased in value and will be as useful to soybean scientists in the future as it has been in its first 50 yr of existence.
4287895|This popular vegetable may have been known to the Greeks, 2,500 years ago. Present-day varieties have been developed principally from forms that have arisen in Italy in the past 2,000 years. The name, meaning "bucktooth", was probably a Latin colloquial term applied to any projecting shoots of members of the cabbage family.
4255711| Psidium guajava and P. guineense are characterized, illustrated and contrasted. Population samples of Psidium guajava and P. guineense and apparent hybrids were collected from four localities: two in Mexico, one in Honduras, and one in Argentina. Seven morphological characters, one micromorphological (stomatal density), and one chemical character (presence or absence of myricetin) that distinguish the parent species were found to be useful in the evaluation of specimens and population variation. Results were consistent with the hypothesis that hybridization occurs between these species, but in three localities it may not go beyond F1's. Back crossing between hybrids and P. guajava was not detected at any locality. / Se recolectaron muestras de poblaciones de Psidium guajava, P. guineense y posibles hbridos en cuatro localidades: dos en Mxico, una en Honduras, una en Argentina. Se encontraron tiles en la evaluacin de especmenes y variacin de poblaciones siete caractersticas morfolgicas, una micromorfolgica (densidad de stomata), y una qumica (presencia o ausencia de myricetin) que distinguen las especies padres. Los resultados indican que hibridacin ocurre entre las especies, pero en tres localidades es posible que hay solamente F1's. No se detectaron cruces entre hbridos y P. guajava en ninguna localidad. 
4252110|Shatter resistance, earliness, high yield and plant form best adapted to mechanical harvesting have been the principal and already partly achieved objectives in breeding castor beans, which, along with improvements in harvesting and hulling machinery, increase the prospects for greater domestic production of this crop.
4253237| About 180 specimens of cucurbits were recovered from the Guila Naquitz Cave in the Valley of Oaxaca, Mexico, from strata dated at 8750-7840 B.C. to 1500 A.D. by Carbon-14
4255439| All of Ecuador's indigenous Amazonian people use Carludovica palmata Ruz & Pavn. The most frequent use is for roof thatching. Fibers from the petiole also are used to make baskets and to tie small timbers. The Shuar, Achuar and Quichua make mammal and fish traps from the petiole. The bases of unopened leaf buds and the fruits are edible. The buds have a taste similar to palm hearts. Carludovica palmata grows in open, disturbed sites often in alluvial soil. Ecuador's indigenous people often protect the plant when clearing fields. They also intentionally plant it. The commercial use of its buds for food and the marketing of native crafts made from C. palmata could rival the plant's importance in the Panama hat industry. 
4256115| Eruca sativa (rocket) is a native plant of Israel, documented in the old literature. A survey was conducted of the old literature of ancient Israel, including Jewish, Classical and Islamic sources up to the Middle ages. It was found that rocket was used as a garden crop and spice. It was also known as a medicinal plant and was used as an aphrodisiac, for eye infections, and for digestive and kidney problems. It is important to note that special attention was given in the old times to biodiversity within the rocket species. In the light of its high erucic acid content, native accessions were collected and evaluated as a potential future source of industrial oil. Ten accessions of Eruca sativa were cultivated in Bet-Dagan experimental farm during the 1995/96 growing season. Physiological as well as chemical parameters were recorded. Erucic acid (C 22:1) and eicosenoic acid (C 20:1) contents varied from 33 to 45% and from 7.3% to 9.8%, respectively. Special attention was given to the expressed biodiversity among the accessions and its relation to their origins. /// Eruca sativa (Roquette) est une plante endemique (native) en Israel, documente dans la littrature ancienne. Une recherche de la littrature ancienne d'Israel comprenant des source juives, classiques et islamiques a t effectue. Il s'est avr que la roquette tait utilise comme plante de jardin et de condiment. Elle a t connue comme plante mdicinale et utilise comme aphrodisiaque, contre les infections des yeux et pour des problmes digestifs et rnaux. Il est important de noter l'attention spciale accorde dans les temps anciens  la biodiversit parmi les espces de roquette. Tenant compte de sa haute contenance en acide erucique, des accessions natives ont t collectes et values comme future source potentielles d'huile industrielle. Dix accessions d'Eruca sativa ont t plantes  la ferme exprimentale  Bet Dagan durant la saison de culture 1995/96. Des paramtres physiologiques et chimiques ont t enregistr. Les teneurs en acide erucique (C22:1) et en acide eicosenoique (C20:1) ont vari de 33  45% et de 7.3  9.8% respectivement. Une attention speciale a t acorde a la biodiversit exprime dans les accessions et sa relation a ses origines. 
41408239|Indigenous knowledge is often represented as being homogeneous within cultural groups, and differences in knowledge within communities are interpreted as a lack of cultural consensus. Alternatively, differences in knowledge represent a range of possibilities for communities to respond to social and ecological change. This paper examines the diversity of plant knowledge among elders who live in the Standing Rock Nation of the northern Great Plains. Elders know how to use different plants, and also hold different knowledge about the same plants. Analysis indicates that elders each contribute unique, complementary, and seemingly contradictory plant knowledge to their community. Compiled seasonal rounds help visualize differences in knowledge about the temporal availability of plants. These differences are linked to variations in use, including references to specific gathering sites, strategies to harvest multiple species, and selection of plants at different stages of development. Elders' diverse knowledge about the seasonal availability of plants may facilitate community adaptation to climate change in the 21st century.
4255568| Traditional, current and potential uses of 83 Eremophila species are documented. In Australia, some Eremophila species are regarded as invasive woody weeds. There are documented cases in which Eremophila species have been reported as poisonous to travelling and drought-stricken stock, but certain species are valued as fodder. Traditionally, this genus has been valued for medicinal and cultural purposes by Aboriginal people. The reported uses as a cure of medical disorders are documented for 18 species. Many of the 210 Eremophila species are recognised for their horticultural potential. They are also useful in revegetation programs because of their drought, fire, frost and grazing tolerances. Eremophila species produce resin, composed of terpenes and flavones, which may be useful in the naval stores industry or as sources for specialty chemicals. / On est bien document sur les utilisations traditionnelles, actuelles ou potentielles, de 83 espces d'Ermophila. En Australie, certaines espces d'Ermophila sont considres comme de mauvaises herbes broussailleuses. Il s'agit de cas o on a constat que des espces d'Ermophila avaient empoisonn du btail errant ou frapp par la scheresse, alors que d'autres espces sont au contraire apprcies comme fourrage. Les Aborignes prisent cette plante depuis toujours en vertu de ses applications mdicinales et culturelles. L'utilisation dans le traitement de troubles mdicaux est avre pour dix-huit espces. Parmi les 210 espces d'Ermophila, un grand nombre sont reconnues pour leur potentiel en horticulture. En outre, elles sont utiles dans les plans de rgnration des sols, du fait de leur tolrance  la scheresse, au feu, au gel et au pturage. Toute les espces d'Ermophila produisent de la rsine, compose de Terpnes et de Flavones, qui peut servir dans le domaine des rsines en gnral ou en tant que sources de produits chimiques bien particuliers. 
4256870|The U.S. National Plant Germplasm System (NPGS) maintains over 40 000 sorghum accessions, which is too large to adequately screen at one time. The objectives of this research were to establish an initial core collection and use clustering techniques to refine one sub-set of that core. Because much of the total sorghum collection lacks complete descriptor or other usable data, the collection was broken out into its respective country of origin and random selection of 10% of the accessions from each country was used to develop the core. Based on these criteria, a core collection of 3011 accessions representing 77 different countries was developed. A more complete phenotypic dataset representing the Sudan allowed for the development of a refined subset of the core collection from this country. The core from Sudan is made up of 352 accessions that represent 13.8% of the total Sudan collection. This core was then evaluated for imbibitional high temperature sensitivity, leaf high temperature sensitivity, and acquired thermotolerance. The results show that these assay systems evaluate distinct aspects of the sorghums' metabolism and that each assay provides unique information about the relative heat tolerance of the sorghum. The impact of the sorghum core collection at this time is unknown. Theoretically, the core should provide a road map from which scientists can map genetic diversity of sorghum and further enhance the capabilities to isolate and clone genes of importance in the future.
4252478|Recent studies have shown that d-lysergic acid amide and d-isolysergic acid amide are responsible for the hallucinogenic properties of the Mexican drugs, "Ololiuqui" and "Badoh Negro." "Ololiuqui' and "Badoh Negro" consist of the seeds of Rivea corymbosa and Ipomoea violacea, respectively, both members of the Convolvulaceae. Thin layer chromatographic analyses of seeds from several related species of Ipomoea suggest that these psychotomimetic principles are limited to varieties or horticultural forms of Ipomoea violacea. A brief description of the macromorphological characteristics of seeds of Ipomoea violacea and Rivea corymbosa and several other related Ipomoea species is given.
4255634|Fat extracted from kernels of Shorea spp. (Dipterocarpaceae) in the tropical rain forests of Borneo and Sumatra are traded under the name Borneo Illipe. The fat is used in chocolate formulations. The majority of kernels collected are from Shorea species in the section Pachycarpae. Fat characteristics of Shorea species in this section show differences in fat quality in relation to its use as exotic sources in Cocoa Butter Equivalent (CBE) formulations. In order to comment on the future potential of the naturally occurring tree populations distribution maps of five Shorea spp. involved in Borneo Illipe utilization are presented.
4256921| People in Benin who cannot resort to allopathic medicines provided by the pharmaceutical industry use many species of plants to alleviate malaria symptoms. Complicated mixtures of different parts of several plant species are employed orally or as a bathing substance. The inventory of 85 species and 30 mixtures bought by us in southern Benin is by no means exhaustive, but the lists serve as examples of the widespread uses in medicine in a restricted area. /// Si les mdecines allopatiques fournis par l'industrie pharmaceutique sont trop chres, les gens prennent une multitude d'espces de plantes afin de soulever les effets du paludisme. Des mlanges compliqus de diffrentes portions de plusieurs plantes sont appliques par voie orale ou en bain. L'inventaire de 85 espces et 30 mlanges obtenus dans le sud du Bnin n'est pas excdant, mais les listes servent comme exemples des usages mdicaux bien rpandus dans une rgion limite. 
4256874|Presented here is an examination of the technological process whereby the stem pith of Metroxylon sagu Rottboell is transformed into edible starch by the Nuaulu people of south central Seram, Maluku, Indonesia. The analysis seeks to describe the underlying local knowledge and practices involved, with a view to refuting the assertion that sago extraction is an intuitively and technically simple solution to food provision for those reluctant to adopt 'proper' agriculture. In the light of this demonstration, I reconsider how palm starch dependency works as an adaptive strategy.
4255839| Sustainable extraction of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) has recently gained considerable attention as a means to enhance rural incomes and conserve tropical forests. However, there is little information on the amounts of products collected per unit area and the impact of extraction on forest structure and composition. In this paper we estimate the quantities of selected products gathered by the Soligas, the indigenous people in the Biligiri Rangaswamy Temple (BRT) sanctuary in Karnataka, India, and examine the effect of extraction on forest structure and composition. Two sites, distant (DS) and proximal (PS), were identified based on the proximity to a Soliga settlement. The frequency of different size classes indicates that regeneration overall is poor in the area. The two sites show differences in species richness, basal area, and tree mortality. Furthermore, non-timber forest product species show a greater deficit of small size classes than the timber forest species, suggesting that regeneration is affected by collection of seeds and fruits from non-timber forest product species. Regeneration, however, may also be affected by other anthropogenic pressures such as fire, grazing and competition with weeds. /// Extrao de Produtos No Madereiros Nas Florestas de Biligiri Rangan Hills, India. 2. Impacto da Extrao de Produtos No Madereiros Na Regenerao, Estrutura de Populao e Composio de Espcies. A explorao sustentavl de produtos forestais no madereiros tem ganho recentemente considarvel ateno como um meio de aumentar a renda rural e conservar florestas tropicais. No entanto, existem poucas informaes sobre a relao entre quantidade de produtos coletados e impacto da extrao na estrutura e composio da floresta. Duas reas de pesquisa, distal (DS) e proximal (PS), foram selecionadas de acordo com suas proximidades com uma tribo de Soligas. A frequncia de diferentes classes de tamanho de planta indica que a regenerao de uma forma geral  baixa. Ambas as reas mostraram diferenas em riqueza de espcies, rea basal e mortalidade de rvores. Alm disso, espcies cuja madeira  explorada possuem um menor dficit no estgio de plntula do que espcies cujos frutos e sementes so explorados. Isto sugere que a explorao de sementes e frutos afeta a regenerao. No entanto, a regenerao pode tambm ser afetada por presso antropognica, tais como: fogo, pastagem e competio com ervas daninhas. 
4287814|The capacity of the United States to produce wheat has been greatly increased through research. Improved varieties and better ways of growing them have made higher acre yields possible and have reduced losses caused by many wheat pests.
4256206| Homegardens represent a traditional form of land use common in tropical regions of the world. Species composition, structure and function of homegardens may be influenced by ecological, socio-economic and cultural factors. The three villages in the Peruvian Amazon in which homegardens were studied differed in terms of cultural background, distance to urban markets and the influence of tourism. Data were collected on species composition, abundance and use of plants in the homegardens. Comparison of the three villages revealed that tourism had the greatest impact on species composition, diversity and use of plants in homegardens. /// Huertas representan un uso tradicional de la tierra el cul es comn en regiones tropicales del mundo. La composicin de especies, estructura y funcin de las huertas puedan estar infludas por factores ecolgicos, socioeconmicos y por culturas. Las tres villas en la Amazona Peruana en que las huertas fueron estudiadas diferenciaron en la historia cultural, distancia al mercado urbano y la influencia del turismo. Datos fueron colectados en la composicin de especies, abundancia y los usos de las plantas en las huertas. Comparacin del los tres caserios demostr que el turismo tiene el impacto ms grande en la composicin de especies, diversidad y uso de las plantas en las huertas. 
4255500| In spite of successful biological control efforts, vast areas of South Africa remain infested with the spiny prickly pear weed, Opuntia ficus-indica. These remnant populations, which vary from sparse to dense and which are more or less stable, are confined mainly to the eastern Cape. They provide a popular fruit and a limited source of income for certain sectors of the population in these areas. In terms of existing legislation, there are, however, restrictions on the large-scale utilization of these fruit. A novel method for mass-rearing the cochineal insect, Dactylopius coccus, for the commercial production of a red dye (carminic acid) has been developed. The cultivated spineless prickly pear has recently been enjoying renewed attention from researchers and growers alike. Whereas it has traditionally been cultivated mainly as a drought-resistant fodder crop, and is still popular as such, it is now increasingly recognised as a fruit, in its own right, with considerable promise as a commercial crop for local and export markets. There is also a need to encourage the use of very young cladodes (nopalitos) as a highly nutritious vegetable for human consumption in South Africa. / Trotz erfolgreiche biologische Bekmpfungseinstze bleiben weite Gebiete Sdafrikas von den dornigen Feigenkakteen (Opuntia ficus-indica) als Unkraut befallen. Diese Restbestnde wechseln im Umfang von dnn bis dicht besiedelt und sind einigermassen stabiel. Sie befinden sich hauptschlich in der Ostkap. Die Pflanze erzeugt eine beliebte Frucht und dadurch ein beschrnktes Einkommen fr bestimmte Teile der Einwohner jener Gebiete. Bestehende Gesetze jedoch beschrnken die Nutzung der Wildfrchte im Grossmass. Eine neuartige Zuchtmethode die Cochenille-Laus, Dactylopius coccus in grossen Mengen fr die wirtschaftliche Herstellung des roten Farbstoffes (Karminsure) herzustellen, wurde entwickelt. Der kutivierte dornlose Feigenkaktus lenkte vor kurzem erneute Interesse auf sich von Seiten der Forscher sowie deur Zchter. Die Pflanze wurde traditionell vorwiegend als Viehfutter gezchtet wegen ihrer Trockenresistenz und ist als solches immer noch beliebt. Nun wird sie jedoch zunehmend als Fruchtpflanze anerkant die sich besonders fr den lokalen und Export-markt eignet. Die Nutzung der ganz jungen Kladoden (Nopalitos) als hchstnahrhaftes Gemse fr menschlichen Gebrauch, soll auch im Sdafrika gefrdert werden. 
4253082|Small grains in the USDA World Collection total about 44,500 accessions. This constitutes a valuable, growing, and much used gene bank. It contains only a few duplicates, but many individual genes are represented over and over. Therefore, the probability of adding altogether new genes to the bank is diminishing, and only as truly exotic, untapped gene pools are discovered in the world is the trend altered. It is feared that agricultural improvement and increased utilization and grazing of natural areas is erasing forever some rich, but unknown, gene centers. Future generations may, therefore, have to do without needed genes that we have now and do not know how to preserve. They would have to wait until nature evolved them, or they would have to find and use ways to induce the genes by directed evolutionary processes.
4255602|Garhwal Himalaya represents one of the richest zones of vegetational wealth in India. Pteridophytic flora is also interesting in its diversity and distribution, however, little is worked out on the economic aspects of these plants. Therefore, present communication pertains to the folk utilization of ferns and fern-allies by the inhabitants of Deoprayag Tehsil in Garhwal Himalaya. The studies are based on frequent field trips to various remote localities and collecting the information from the local inhabitants. The perusal of literature indicated several little known plants of folk utilization, and a large number of these could prove an important source of wider economic utility after phytochemical analysis.
4252900| The seeds of 10 accessions of Limnanthes, representing 7 species and their varieties were moistened and placed in an 80F cabinet for up to 14 days. Then they were transferred to 40, 50 or 60F temperatures for germination. In two accessions, 85% of the seeds became dormant after only 2 days at 80F. In 6 accessions, up to 80% of the seeds became dormant after 14 days at 80F. In two other accessions there was little or no dormancy induced. After 16 months, one half the ungerminated seeds in each treatment were dried under room conditions for 2-1/2 months. Then they were again moistened and placed under germination temperatures. Up to 78% of the seeds thus treated germinated, compared with few or none of those maintained continuously under germination conditions. 
4256029| The complex movements of humans, the variety of organisms they purposefully and accidentally carry with them, and taxonomic confusion have partly obscured the transport of this cultivated ornamental and medicinal plant. Several lines of evidence indicate an American origin for this species. The data include: (1) greatest species richness in the Americas; (2) phylogenetic placement of D. micrantha with North American taxa D. recurvata and D. donelliana; (3) D. micrantha being the only species present in Cuba; (4) Chinese names and medicinal uses for the plants that suggest a recent adoption of D. micrantha, perhaps because of morphological similarity with Centella asiatica. Dichondra micrantha was present in several parts of Asia and the Americas by the 1800s. Most of these places were on sailing trade routes. Therefore, it appears that D. micrantha has been moved around the world by humans for 200-500 years. Humans continue spreading the species, and for the past few decades thousands of pounds of 2  1 mm seeds have been shipped around the world annually by American companies. /// El complejo moviemento humano, la variedad de organismos que, a proposito o accidentalmente cargan, y la confusin taxonmica han en parte obscurecido el transporte de esa planta cultivada ornamental y medicinal. Varias lineas de evidencia indicaran el origen americano de esta especie. Datos incluyen: (1) la major riqueza de especies se consigue en las Americas; (2) localizacin phylogentico de D. micrantha con especies norteamericanos D. recurvata y D. donelliana; (3) el hecho de que D. micrantha es la unica especie presente in Cuba; (4) denominaciones chinos y usos medicinales de las plantas sugieren la reciente adopcin de D. micrantha, probablemente a partir de su similitud morfolgica con Centella asiatica. Dichondra micrantha ha sido presente en varias partes de Asia y las Americas el el siglo 19. La mayoria de estos lugares estuvieron en rutas de intercambio maritmas. Por lo tanto, parece que D. micrantha ha sido translada atravez del mundo por los humanos durante unos 200-500 aos. Los humanos continuan esparciendo la especie y, durante las ltimas decadas del siglo viente, miles de libras de semillas de 2 por 1 mm han sido embarcadas annualmente alrededor del mundo por companias americanas. 
4255274|Traditionally viewed as an Andean grain crop, Chenopodium quinoa Willd. includes domesticated populations that are not Andean, and Andean populations that are not domesticated. Comparative analysis of leaf morphology and allozyme frequencies have demonstrated that Andean populations, both domesticated (quinua) and free-living (ajara), represent an exceptionally homogeneous unit that is well differentiated from allied domesticates of coastal Chile (quingua) and free-living populations of the Argentine lowlands (C. hircinum). This pattern of relationships indicates that Andean populations represent a monophyletic crop/weed system that has possibly developed through cyclic differentiation (natural vs. human selection) and introgressive hybridization. Relative levels of variation suggest that this complex originated in the southern Andes, possibly from wild types allied with C. hircinum, with subsequent dispersal north to Colombia and south to the Chilean coast. Coastal populations were apparently isolated from post-dispersal differentiation and homogenization that occurred in the Andes. Other data point toward a center of origin in the northern Andes with secondary centers of genetic diversity subsequently developing in the southern Andes and the plains of Argentina. Comparative linkage of South American taxa, all tetraploid, with North American tetraploids of the subsection will eventually clarify this problem. While the possibility of a direct phyletic connection between C. quinoa and the Mexican domesticate (C. berlandieri subsp. nuttalliae) cannot be excluded, available evidence indicates that the latter represents an autonomous lineage that is associated with the basal tetraploid, C. b. subsp. berlandieri, through var. sinuatum, whereas South American taxa show possible affinities to either var. zschackei or var. berlandieri. An extinct domesticate of eastern North America, C. b. subsp. jonesianum, represents either another instance of independent domestication, possibly from subsp. b. var. zschackei, or a northeastern outlier of subsp. nuttalliae.
4255600| Mango (Mangifera indica L.) introductions to Florida began in 1861 with the importation of 'No. 11', a polyembryonic, seed-propagated (nucellar) cultivar from Cuba. In the 1880s a collection of Cuban mangos was established near Bradenton. One resulting popular cultivar was 'Turpentine', now widely used as a rootstock. The U. S. Department of Agriculture introduced 'Mulgoba', an improved cultivar from India, in 1889. Other mangos were later brought from India, Vietnam, the Philippines, Thailand, Israel, Australia and Kenya. Related Mangifera species were collected in East Malaysian Borneo in 1990. Inasmuch as the breeding system of Mangifera favors outcrossing, the proximity of numerous genotypes of disparate geographic origin in Florida has made that state a secondary center of diversity for the mango and enabled it to make a unique contribution to the fruit industry. / Introducciones del mango (Mangifera indica L.) a la Florida comenzaron en el ao 1861 cuando 'No. 11', un cultivar nucelar normalmente propagado por la semilla, fue importado de Cuba. Durante la decada de los 1880s, Pliny Reasoner, propietario de un vivero de plantas, pas 4 semanas en Cuba buscando a otros mangos de la regin, que el plant despus en la vecindad de la ciudad de Bradenton. Un cultivar popular en su coleccin fue el 'Turpentine', todavia usado comunmente como patrn para injertos. El Departamento de Agricultura de EE. UU. en el ao 1889 introdujo 'Mulgoba', un cultivar injertado de tipo mejorado, de la India. Despus, se introdujeron otros mangos de la India, Vietnam, las Filipinas, Tailandia, Israel, Australia y Kenia. Especies parentales a Mangifera indica se coleccionaron en la isla de Borneo en 1990. Como resultado de estas actividades, la Florida en este siglo se ha convertido en un centro secundario de diversidad (sensu Vavilov) para esta cosecha. 
4253684|Two thousand plants of the water hyacinth, Eichornia crassipes Solms., were introduced on April 11, 1971, into a series of five ponds, each 5000 sq. ft. in area and 2.6 ft. deep. Treated waste water effluent from the Ames sewage treatment plant filled the ponds and was added to pond 1 at 127 gallons per minute. By growth and vegetative reproduction, these plants increased to more than 500,000, and all five ponds were covered completely by July 26. On that date, the extrapolated estimate of total wet weight was 287 U.S. tons/acre (645 metric tons/hectare;
40390614|Understanding variety naming by farmers is important for better understanding crop genetic diversity in farmer fields and its management by farmers. This paper describes variety naming of rice by farmers in The Gambia and presents mechanisms that explain naming diversity and consistency. Three types of variety names can be distinguished, referring to common old varieties, common new varieties, and uncommon varieties. Interview and plant data suggest that variety exchange affects variety naming within villages. As a result, variety names give information on the period of time a variety is used in a village, and on the flow of varieties between and within villages. Name consistency within and between villages results from and illuminates the dynamics of variety exchange within and between villages.
4256835|Iriartea deltoidea grows abundantly from Nicaragua to Bolivia. The stem is harvested for construction, furniture making, and handicrafts. The objective of my study was to understand the potential for sustainable harvesting of this palm. Ethnographic fieldwork about market patterns and decision-making among harvesters revealed the nature of harvesting pressures near settled areas. The study also demonstrates methods for assessing social and economic influences on harvesting.
4251934|The first American planting of cinchona was in 1860 in Guatemala and Jamaica. Subsequent investments in Guatemala by private and governmental agencies, negligible until stimulated by the recent war, have culminated today in plantations aggregating only about 1,000 acres with 1 3/4 million trees.
4254481|There are fewer than 162 ha of commercial Chinese chestnut orchards in the United States, with approximately half of these in the Southeast. Large numbers of Chinese chestnut seedlings are planted annually in the United States for home and game food production; however, knowledge about chestnut propagation, fertilization, pests, harvest, storage and marketing is not adequate. There is little commercial marketing of U.S.-grown Chinese chestnuts through roadside markets and local farmers' markets as the supply is low and unpredictable. However, we yearly import 4.5 mill kg of European chestnuts to satisfy the U.S. market. Successful chestnut orchards will require vegetatively propagated selections, intensive management, mechanical harvesting, and control of insect and disease pests.
4254509|The use of cassava leaves as human food is reviewed and their value as a source of protein and vitamins for supplementing predominantly starchy diets reemphasized. The problem of the toxicity of the leaves is considered, and the effects on both nutritive value and toxicity of the traditional methods of preparing the leaves, such as drying, pounding, and long periods of boiling, are described and discussed. Loss of nutrients, particularly vitamins, occurs during processing but remaining levels can still make an important contribution to the diet. HCN levels are reduced considerably by the processing methods, although the toxic effects of residual levels need further investigation.
40390591|This article describes the unique uses of the plant wall pellitoiy (Parietaria judaica L.), as based on Arabic sources from the Middle Ages. These sources reveal that this plant was used in Israel for producing alkaline substances, in general, and material to clean glass, in particular. Examination of the plant's composition demonstrates that it contains sodium and potassium in high concentrations, even in comparison with salt flat vegetation (desert and coastal), such as prickly saltworts (Salsola kali L.), which were known in the ancient world as a source of cleaning materials. Thus, corroboration was found for the information obtained from the historical sources.
4254987|Despite their demonstrated nutritional value, yield of seeded breadfruit trees (Artocarpus altilis) has not been investigated in any detail. In the present study, the average number of seeds per seeded breadfruit harvested from a single 6-yr-old tree over a period of 7 months was 59. Individual fruits contained as many as 151 or as few as 12. The average seed weight/fruit was 348 g. Fruit production from March to September totalled 33 and ranged from one to eight per month.
4256176| Passiflora incarnata bears flavorful fruits consumed by past and present peoples, and this plant deserves greater use as a fruit crop. Native to southeastern North America, it is an herbaceous perennial vine which flowers and fruits over much of the growing season. P. incarnata is self-incompatible and usually pollinated by carpenter bees (Xylocopa spp.). Plants are functionally andromonoecious, and low resource status favors male flower production and thus reduces fruit set. The fruits contain many seeds, each surrounded by an aril holding edible juice, and this juice can be consumed fresh or used in processed products. Because it is a minor agricultural weed, P. incarnata should not be introduced into regions where it may naturalize. Polyploid hybrids of P. incarnata and the subtropical and tropical passionfruit, P. edulis, are also potential temperate fruit crops. Future research on P. incarnata should evaluate intraspecific genetic variation and performance in cultivation. /// Tanto historicamente como actualmente el consumo de la fruta Passiflora incarnata justifica su consideracin como un cultivo frutal. P. incarnata es una liana herbcea perenne, indgena del sudeste de Amrica del Norte, que produce fruta a lo largo de la temporada de crecimiento. P. incarnata es autoincompatible y, usualmente, polinada por abejas carpinteras (Xylocopa spp.). Estas plantas son funcionalmente andromonocas. Niveles de recursos bajos favorecen la produccin de flores masculinas y reducen el nmero de frutos. Los frutos contienen muchas semillas, cada una de ellas rodeada por un aril con jugo comestible. Este jugo se puede usar tanto para productos naturales como procesados. Es importante evitar la introduccin de P. incarnata en regiones donde se pueda aclimatar, ya que se comporta como una mala hierba. Es posible cultivar los hbridos de P. incarnata y P. edulis, la fruta de pasin tropical y subtropical, en zonas templadas. Futuras pesquisas se deberan enfocar en la evaluacin de la variacin gentica intraespecfica y su rendimiento como cultivo. 
4254275|Principal components analysis of 27 morphological characters for 18 accessions of teosinte and 3 accessions of maize separated teosinte into 6 phenetic groups which showed broad agreement with previous taxonomic groupings. Tests for regression suggested significant linear relationships with altitude; teosintes from higher elevations are generally more maize-like for a combination of characters. Introgression from maize may have blurred racial identities within teosinte, but variation among current teosinte accessions cannot be satisfactorily explained solely on the basis of known maize introgression. It appears instead that racial differentiation in teosinte was well established by the time of the domestication of maize. While current racial classification of teosinte is quite useful, it does not adequately reflect the amount of genetic variation, nor does it accurately portray many of the relationships within teosinte.
4255074| Cassava (Manihot esculenta) is a cyanide-containing food crop used by many indigenous peoples in Amazonia. Tukanoan Indians in Northwest Amazonia utilize both "bitter" and "sweet" cassava cultivars. Those classified as "bitter" are the dietary staple. Analysis of 13 commonly used "bitter" cultivars indicates that they are high in cyanide in comparison to values reported in the literature. The Tukanoan practice of including the inner peel in the edible portion contributes to the high cyanide values found. /// Las races de la yuca (Manihot esculenta) constituyen un importante alimento energetico para grupos indgenas del Amazonas. Los Tukanos del noroeste Amazonico cultivan variedades "dulces" y "amargas" de yuca; las "amargas" proporcionan la mayora de la energa en la dieta. El anlisis de 13 de las ms comunes variedades "amargas" por ellos utilizadas presenta valores altos de cianuro en comparacin con aquellos previamente registrados en la literatura especializada. La inclusin de la corteza en la parte comestible se relaciona con los altos valores de cianuro encontrados. 
4254083|Senna seymeria [Seymeria cassioides (Walt.) Blake], a native root parasite of the South, was grown in crocks with 10 western conifers. Haustorial attachments were found on the roots of all hosts, but they were more numerous on pines than on firs, spruce, and cedar.
4257016|Neurological and mental health disorders are extremely debilitating, and sufferers in developing countries often rely on traditional practitioners for these medical needs. Few studies have focused on botanical remedies used in this context, although these offer interesting treatment alternatives. The present study investigated plant use for the treatment of neurological and mental health disorders by Q'eqchi' Maya healers of southern Belize. We found that these healers generally recognize and treat epilepsy/seizures, headache, madness, fright (susto), depression, numbness, insomnia, and stress with herbal remedies. Quantitative analyses showed that there is selection for the use of certain species and botanical families, namely for species of the Pteridophyta division and for plants from the Piperaceae family. This study denotes the importance and selectivity of plant use by Q'eqchi' healers of southern Belize for the treatment of neurological and mental conditions and points to a possible underrepresentation of these disorders in the ethnobotanical literature.
4255741| Cultivated oilseeds are very important sources of protein-rich pastes that are widely used for their nutritional and functional properties in human foods and animal feed. The purpose of this research was to determine the potential of wild Brassica campestris seeds as a source of protein isolates and their characterization. Wild mustard meal contained 33.5% lipids, 26% protein, 13.4% crude fiber, 4.4% ash, 22.6% nitrogen free extract and 4.8% moisture. It contained low levels of phytates (32 mg/100 g) and glucosinolates (0.92%), and the thioglucosidase could be inactivated through heat (90C/18 min) or after extracting the oil with hexane at 80C for 2 hr. Dehulled and defatted meal contained 3.8% crude fiber, 7% ash, and 48% protein, with a digestibility of 92.8% and a nutritive value of 98% (relative to casein). Phytate levels increased to 67 mg/100 g and glucosinolates to 2.3%. Protein was extracted from this meal at pH's between 6 and 11. Maximum yields (>74%) were obtained at pH 7, 7.5 and 8, coinciding with a minimum extraction of phytate (70%). SDS-PAGE electrophoresis identified 12 protein bands with MW between 10 and 74 kDa in these extracts. Protein extracted at pH 7 was precipitated at pH's between 3.5 and 5.5, with maximum yield at pH 3.5 (53%), but the pH 4 isolate was chosen (yield 36%) since it contained negligible amounts of phytates and no glucosinolates. It contained 93% protein and a nutritive value of 91%, and higher levels of sulphur amino acids and lysine than cereals and legumes. The best functional characteristics were its foaming capacity, foam stability and oil binding capacity (better than soybean isolate). /// Las oleaginosas cultivadas son fuente importante de pastas ricas en protena que son ampliamente utilizadas por sus propiedades nutricionales y funcionales en alimentos para humanos y balanceados. El objetivo de esta investigacin fue el de determinar el potencial de las semillas de la Brassica campestris silvestre como fuente de aislados proteicos y la caracterizacin de stos. La composicin de la harina de mostaza silvestre fue: lpidos 33.5%, protena 26%, fibra crude 13.4%, ceniza 4.4%, extracto libre de nitrgeno 22.6% y humedad 4.8%. Tuvo un contenido bajo de fitatos (32 mg/100 g) y glucosinolatos (0.92%), y la tioglucosidasa pudo inactivarse con calor (90C/18 min) o con la extraccin del aceite con hexano a 80C por 2 hr. La composicin de la harina descascarada y desgrasada fue: fibra cruda 3.8%, ceniza 7% y protena 48%, con una digestibilidad de 92.8% y un valor nutritivo de 98% (relativo a la casena). El nivel de fitatos se increment a 67 mg/100g y el de glucosinolatos a 2.3%. Se extrajo la protena de esta harina a pH's entre 6 y 11. Los rendimientos mximos (>74%) se obtuvieron a pH 7, 7.5 and 8, coincidiendo con la extraccin mnima de fitato (70%). Por medio de una electroforesis SDS-PAGE se identificaron 12 bands de protena con PM entre 10 y 74 kDa en estos extractos. La protena extaca a pH 7 se precipit a pH's entre 3.5 y 5.5, con un mximo rendimiento a pH 3.5 (53%), pero se escogi el aislado a pH 4 (rendimento de 36%) ya que contena cantidades traza de fitatos y glucosinolatos. El aislado contena 93% de protena y un valor nutritivo de 91%, y niveles ms altos de aminocidos azufrados y lisina que cereales and leguminosas. La mejores caractersticas funcionales fueron la capacidad espumante, estabilidad de la espuma y capacidad de atado de aceite (mejor que los aislados de soya). 
4256428|The use of vegetables in two rural communities in Burkina Faso is quantified through the use of food diaries kept by 13 households during one year. Interviews on preferences, field registration, and a market survey supplement the diaries. The use of wild species is concentrated on Parkia biglobosa, Corchorus spp., Adansonia digitata, and Bombax costatum. At least five other wild species are mentioned as important but very rarely occur in the diet, indicating the usefulness of diaries compared to interviews. Capsicum frutescens, Abelmoschus esculentus, Allium cepa, and Solanum lycopersicon are the most commonly used cultivated species. Wild vegetables constitute 35% and 59% of the total vegetable consumption in the two communities. Most products are highly seasonal in supply and prices vary accordingly. Households compensate for the seasonality by drying products, but stocks are often insufficient and vegetable purchases needed. Many of the vegetable species studied should be integrated in agricultural research and extension programs.
4251853|An American industry which in the last pre-War year did a total retail business of $140,000,000 and has been based largely on exploitation of the sapodilla forests in the Yucatan Peninsula without much concern for perpetuating the supply.
4256091|The use, processing, trading, cultivation and nurturing of wild edible herbs was recorded across a rainfall gradient in the Mpumalanga lowveld. Nine villages, in three transects across the prevailing west-east rainfall gradient, were sampled by means of 20 households per village. All households made use of wild edible herbs to some extent, with households in the wettest region using the greatest diversity. The duration of availability of selected species was increased through drying, storing and processing for later consumption. Such activities were more common in the drier regions relative to the wetter villages. Approximately 38% of the respondents cultivated or nurtured wild edible herbs within their homestead or arable fields, whereas more than 77% grew exotic commercial vegetables. One quarter of respondents traded in edible herbs, largely in the winter months. Very few obtained a significant income in this way, but even casual trading provided vital supplementary income for low-income households.
4252011|Molasses and corn, the traditional sources of carbohydrate for the production of ethyl alcohol-for both industrial and beverage purposes-are being challenged by new sources. These were revealed by investigations undertaken during the last war emergency and by research within the industry which continues to investigate and evaluate potential sources of alcohol.
4256809| Garlic has been used worldwide as a folk medicine to cure a wide range of diseases. Although Allium sativum is the species commonly used, several other Allium species have been used as a substitute for common garlic, especially in the past. This work compares the extracts from bulbs of common garlic with those of other Allium species. TLC analysis was used to compare the sulphur compounds in A. sativum, A. subhirsutum, A. pendulinum, A. roseum, and A. triquetrum. Results have showed that the use of the above mentioned wild Allium species is not without scientific support. /// L'agilo  stato usato universalmente in medicina popolare per curare un 'ampia gamma di patologie, Sebbene Allium sativum  la specie comunemente pi usata,  noto che altre specie di Allium sono state usate come suoi sostituti nel passato. Questo lavoro ha riguardato la comparazione di estratti di bulbi di aglio comune con quelli di altre specie quail A. subhirsutum, A. pendulinum, A. roseum, e A. triquetrum; in particolare  stato paragonato il diverso contenuto di composti solforati utilizzando la tecnica della cromatografia su strato sottile. I risultati hanno evidenziato che l'utilizzo delle su citate specie non  privo di fondamento scientifico. 
4255542|A total of 105 plants used for food and medicine and 11 animals hunted and gathered for meat by the Khasis and Garos of Meghalaya were identified. Of the total plants recorded, 85 were used by the Garos alone, only three by the Khasis whereas the other 17 were used by both tribes. In addition to fresh use in-season many plant products were processed for storage and use off-season. Although all adults were familiar with various uses of plants and animals, the village elders were more knowledgeable. Garos have especially knowledgeable curers. Wild foods are of particular value for tiding over lean periods when resources from agriculture and animal husbandry systems are scarce, especially for the poorer sections of society. The importance of recording the use of plants and animals in this region is especially important because of rapid loss of rain forest habitats.
4255316| An inventory was made of 50 ha of primary lowland rain forest in Peninsular Malaysia, in which ca. 340,000 trees 1 cm dbh or larger were measured and identified to species. Out of a total plot tree flora of 820 species, 76 species are known to bear edible fruit. Especially diverse were the wild species of mango (Mangifera, Anacardiaceae, 12 spp.), mangosteen (Garcinia, Clusiaceae, 13 spp.), breadfruit (Artocarpus, Moraceae, 10 spp.) and rambutan (Nephelium, Sapindaceae, 5 spp.). Median population size for all species of fruit trees was 3.0 trees per ha and 0.2 adult trees per ha. Direct economic value of wild fruit trees was small; only one species has been very much collected and sold, Parkia speciosa (Fabaceae), amounting to less than US$20 per ha per year. The potential value of the species as genetic resources is very large: 24 species are cultivated, 38 edible species are congeneric with cultivated crops and at least 10 other species bear inedible fruit but are related to cultivated crops. We conclude that the Peninsular Malaysian rain forest is exceedingly rich in wild fruit trees, that these normally live at low densities, and that their principal economic value is as genetic resources. /// Se hizo un inventario de 50 ha. de tierra baja primaria de selva lluviosa de Malasia Peninsular, en el cual se medi y se identific la especie de aproximadamente unos 340,000 rboles de 1 cm de diametro (a la altura del pecho) o mayores. De un total de un terreno de flora de rboles de 820 especies, se sabe que 76 especies dan frutos comestibles. Resultaron ser particularmente variades las especies silvestres de mango (Mangifera, Anacardiaceae, 12 spp.), mangostn (Garcinia, Clusiaceae, 13 spp.), arbol del pan (Artocarpus, Moraceae, 10 spp.) y rambutn (Nephelium, Sapindaceae, 5 spp). El valor mediano del tamao de la poblacin de todas las especies de rboles frutales fue de 3.0 rboles por hectare y de 0.2 arboles adultos por hectare. El valor econmico directo de los rboles frutales silvestres result pequeo; solamente una de las especies ha sido muy recogida y vendida, Parkia speciosa (Fabaceae), sumando menos de US$20 por hectare por ao. El valor potencial de las especies como reserva gentica es muy grande: 24 especies son cultivadas, 38 especies comestibles son congneres de cosechas cultivadas y por los menos otras 10 especies dan frutos incomestibles pero estn relacionadas con cosechas cultivadas. Concluimos que la selva lluviosa de la Peninsula de Malasia es extremadamente rica en rboles frutales silvestres, que stos normalmente viven en bajas densidades y que su principal valor econmico es como reserva gentica. /// Satu inventori telah dijalankan di satu kawasan hutan hujan tanah pamah seluas 50 ha di Semenanjung Malaysia. Daripada kerja-kerja inventori ini, sebanyak 340,000 pokok yang mempunyai pepepang 1 cm atau lebih telah diukur dan dicamkan hingga ke peringkat spesies. Sejumlah 820 spesies telah dikenalpasti dan daripada jumlah ini, sebanyak 76 spesies telah diketahui menghasilkan buah yang boleh dimakan. Kepelbagaian yang luas terdapat dalam spesies liar mangga (Mangifera, Anacardiaceae, 12 spp.), manggis (Garcinia, Clusiaceae, 13 spp.), sukun (Artocarpus, Moraceae, 10 spp.) dan rambutan (Nephelium, Sapindaceae, 5 spp). Median saiz populasi untuk semua spesies buah-buahan ialah 3.0 pokok setiap hektar dan bagi pokok buah-buahan yang matang pula ialah 0.2 pokok setiap hektar. Sumbangan ekonomi secara langsung dari buah-buahan liar ini adalah kecil; hanya satu spesies sahaja iaitu Parkia speciosa (Fabaceae) yang biasa dikutip dan dijual dengan harga kurang dari US$20 setiap hektar setiap tahun. Spesies-spesies yang berpotensi sebagai sumber-sumber genetik adalah banyak; 24 spesies yang ditanam, 38 spesies yang boleh dimakan tergolong dalam genus yang sama (kongenerik) dengan spesies yang ditanam, dan sekurang-kurangnya 10 spesies lagi yang tidak boleh dimakan tetapi mempunyai pertalian dengan spesies tanaman. Daripada inventori ini, boleh disimpulkan bahawa hutan hujan Semenanjung Malaysia sangat kaya dengan spesies buah-buahan liar dan biasanya terdapat dalam kepadatan yang rendah, tetapi nilai ekonomi asas daripada spesies-species liar ini ialah sebagai sumber-sumber genetic. 
4254577|Principal components analysis of isozyme allele frequencies at 19 loci revealed 133 electrophoretic variants for 77 accessions of annual teosinte and 1 accession each of diploid and tetraploid perennial teosintes. The majority of alleles were found in low frequency, and many were distributed only in specific locations. Zea luxurians and the annual Mexican teosintes appeared to be the most distantly related of all teosintes. Z. perennis and Z. diploperennis appeared distinct from each other and from all other teosintes. Teosintes of west Guatemala (Huehuetenango) did not appear especially closely related to Balsas teosintes. Several differences were apparent between Chalco and Central Plateau teosintes; however, these differences were not so extreme as those suggested by chromosome knob data. Nobogame teosintes appeared closely related to Chalco and Central Plateau teosintes. Isozyme data reveal teosinte to be a diverse source of germplasm.
4254854|The neem tree (Azadirachta indica) contains promising pest-control substances found effective against many economically important pests. These materials are easy to process by village-level industries and easy to use by limited-resource farmers, thereby offering potential for crop protection and off-farm income generation. The tree's numerous pharmacological and other complementary uses make it doubly attractive for incorporation in large-scale rural development efforts.
40686810|The artificial wetlands created through taro (Colocasia esculenta var. antiquorum) cultivation have played an important but controversial role in discourse on Hawaiian culture, history, and natural resource management. The extent of taro cultivation has risen and fallen dramatically with changes in population, trends, and culture since Hawaii was first settled by humans. However, since peak taro cultivation occurred before most historical records, it is unknown how much artificial wetland was created in prehistoric times. Past estimates of the extent of taro cultivation have been based on prehistoric population estimates, which are in themselves highly contested. Here we present a simple model based on geographic and climate limitations to predict the maximum amount and distribution of land that could have been dedicated to taro production on the main Hawaiian Islands. Using geographic information systems technology, and historical records of taro distribution, we created a map of potential prehistorical taro sites and total land cover. Our model predicts that prehistoric taro could have covered up to 12 times more land than suggested by past estimates. Limitations to this model include the use of current geographic characteristics to predict historical land use patterns and difficulties in creating parameters general enough to capture all sites without overestimating taro cultivation. Despite these limitations, this model does well encompassing known prehistoric and historical taro localities and should serve as a basis for revising estimated taro coverage.
4255478|Subsistence agriculture in the Pacific Islands has a complex prehistory centered on western Melanesia. Based on an analysis of cultigen provenience, a sequential model of a three-tiered crop structure of indigenous agricultural systems has been derived: (1) The independent early domestication of endemic species in the New Guinea region; (2) introduction of species from Southeast Asia; (3) the advent of American crop plants. The temporal sequence has archaeological and linguistic confirmation of 10 000 years ago for the beginnings of agriculture, 6000 years for Southeast Asian introduction, with the sweet potato contributing in Polynesia in prehistory, and in Melanesia only in post-Columbian times. Recent research directed toward issues of domestication in New Guinea and subsistence prehistory in Australia on three genera, Canarium, Colocasia and Ipomoea, exemplify under-recognized resources with quite different potentials for economic botany. Unlike past exploitation of indigenous plant resources, future users of plants such as those exemplified, and especially where commercialization is involved, cannot avoid addressing intellectual property rights that pertain to species domesticated, selected or conserved by peoples of the non-industrialized world.
40390433|Following observations of goats' possible self-medication browsing the anti-parasitic plant, Albizia anthelmintica, an ethnobotanical survey was undertaken to examine whether livestock engage in other self-medicating behaviors, and if people also use the same medications. Information was gathered over a five-month period from 147 Karamojong pastoralists and healers using a checklist of questions. There were 124 observations for 50 proposed self-medicating behaviors, primarily eating plants, to treat a total of 35 disease conditions. Of the plant species, 72% were also prepared by informants to treat human or veterinary diseases. Species importance was estimated by four factors: > 3 user citations, informant consensus factor > 0.4, fidelity level > 40% and presence in the local pharmacopoeia. Eight species fulfilled all of these factors, and 12 had at least three. These results provide support for the hypothesis that animals graze specific plants when ill and suggest that people have developed some of their knowledge through animal observation.
4251897|White, sweet, alsike and red clovers and alfalfa are the principal sources of surplus honey in northern United States, from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Buckwheat and heartsease are secondary and autumnal sources.
41242930|The seven species of Litsea found in Mexico, all of them popularly known as "laurel," were surveyed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry for their foliar essential oils composition and related ethnobotanical applications. Litsea glaucescens is in high demand as a condiment, and is sold in rural and urban markets all over Mexico. However, four other species are also locally used for food seasoning. Litsea guatemalensis is the species most used in traditional medicine, especially to treat fever, chills, infectious diseases of the digestive system, and arthritis. No reports of culinary, medicinal, or other applications were located for L. muelleri, and L. pringlei. This is the first report on the essential oils for L. neesiana, L. muelleri, L. parvifolia, L. pringlei, and L. schaffneri. The terpenoids commonly found in all the Litsea species studied were 1,8-cineole, linalool, -pinene, -pinene, m-cymene, terpinen-4-ol, -terpineol, caryophyllene, and caryophyllene oxide. Nevertheless, each species can be distinguished by its characteristic assortment of terpenoids. According to hierarchical cluster analysis, three groups of species were recognized: (1) 1,8-cineole group (C-10 terpenes), consisting of L. glaucescens, L. schaffnerii, L. pringlei, and L. muelleri; (2) limonene-rich group (C-10 oxygenated terpenes), including L. guatemalensis, and L. neesiana, and (3) oxygenated sesquiterpenes-rich group (C-15 oxygenated terpenes), comprising L. parvifolia. The chemical profiles of L. glaucescens and L. guatemalensis suggest a correlation with the culinary and medicinal uses of these species due to the known properties of their main constituents. La composicin de los aceites esenciales foliares de las siete especies de Litsea encontradas en Mxico, todas ellas conocidas popularmente como "laurel," fue analizada por cromatografia de gases acoplada a espectrometra de masas y relacionada con sus usos tradicionales. Litsea glaucescens es altamente demandada como condimento y se vende en los mercados rurales y urbanos a lo largo de todo el pas. Sin embargo, otras cuatro especies, tambin se utilizan localmente como especias. Litsea guatemalensis es la especie ms usada en la medicina tradicional para tratar fiebre, resfriados, infecciones del aparato digestivo y artritis. No se registr ningn uso para L. muelleri y L. pringlei. Se reporta por primera vez la composicin de los aceites esenciales de L. neesiana, L. muelleri, L. parvifolia, L. pringlei y L. schaffneri. Los terpenoides comunes en todas las espcies estudiadas de Litsea fueron: 1,8-cineol, linalool, -pineno, -pineno, m-cimeno, terpinen-4-ol, -terpineol, cariofileno y xido de cariofileno, sin embargo, cada una de las siete especies puede distinguirse por un perfil caracterstico de terpenoides. Con base en sus compuestos mayoritarios se distinguieron tres grupos: (1) rico en 1,8-cineol (monoterpenos C-10) constituido por L. glaucescens, L. schaffnerii, L. pringlei y L. muelleri; (2) rico en limoneno (monoterpenos oxigenados C-10) incluye a L. guatemalensis y L. neesiana; y (3) rico en sesquiterpenos oxygenados (C-15) que incluye a L. parvifolia, la cual pose semejanza qumica con otras espcies asiticas. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los perfiles qumicos de L. glaucescens y L. guatemalensis estn relacionados con sus aplicaciones culinarias y medicinales en razn a las propiedades conocidas de sus componentes mayoritarios.
4253893|Plants with underground storage organs in the natural flora of Egypt appeared promising as raw materials for various economic uses. As basic information for any future industrial, pharmaceutical, or agricultural uses, we must understand their inorganic constituents in relation to variations of habitats and life cycle events. Fourteen species have been collected from different habitats along the Mediterranean coast and examined for their chemical element composition and correlated with the environmental conditions. One of these species, Asphodelus microcarpus Salzm. and Viv., has been critically studied to determine the uptake and distribution of the different mineral elements during its different phenophases. The importance of this study on the rational uses of the different parts of this plant is discussed.
4254967| Salvia divinorum Epling & Jtiva-M. is one of the vision-inducing plants used in ritual curing by the Mazatec Indians of central Mexico. The present status of research is summarized. Experiments with material collected at different Oaxacan sites confirmed that the mint has white (rather than blue) flowers with a purple calyx and that flowering is induced by short daylength. 
4253849|Research has been conducted on medicinal plants as fertility regulators by indigenous populations of Paraguay. Studies were conducted on 10 ethnically different groups, and information was gathered on 22 plants. The scientific name, popular name, empirical properties and ways of using each of them are given.
4254325|This discussion summarizes current information about archeological cucurbits. It centers on 4 areas: (1) where they occur; (2) where and in what environment they are preserved; (3) plant parts recovered; and (4) the meaning of archeological cucurbits for ethnobotany.
4253962|Wild species of Manihot are progenitors of cassava. They constitute valuable genetic reservoirs with genes of new characters. Study of geographic distribution of wild Manihot species showed concentration of wild species in a number of centers in South and Central America. Considering Vavilov's concept of centers of diversity based on the Age and Area hypothesis of Willis, and Harlan's theory of Introgression, and by studying Indian immigrations in Pre-Columbian times, it is assumed that northern Amazonia is the place of domestication of cassava and that Goias is the primary center of diversity of Manihot species as a "biological group".
4252885|Alectra parasitica is a drug plant, indigenous to India, which had been used in the treatment of leprosy for centuries in traditional
4255069| A comparative study of the traditional use of oregano-like herbs in the Mediterranean region provides convincing evidence that the hyssop of the Bible is the carvacrol chemotype of the plant Majorana syriaca. The ancient tradition of ritual use of this plant gave rise to two cultures of condiments: za'atar in the Middle East and oregano in Europe. The flavor of the original hyssop was the determining factor in this development and remained unchanged in oregano and za'atar throughout the centuries. ///       //,     ,    ,  ,   ,  -   Majorana syriaca.            : '       .          .        '     . 
4254574|Evidence of prehistoric domestication of plants native to southwestern United States is rare. Presented here are archaeological, historic and contemporary ethnobotanical data suggesting that a native grain, Panicum sonorum, was harvested, sown and culturally selected in the Sonoran Desert Region. This indicator crop, other new clarifications of indigenous crops, and water management practices all point to the distinctiveness of the region's agricultural complex. As redefined here, the Sonoran Desert Agricultural Region is diverse in both native crops and in cultivars of introduced crops originating elsewhere.
4254873|The National Cancer Institute's record of bryophytes (mosses, liverworts, and hornworts) screened for biologically active chemicals is reviewed. In 1977, an extract of a moss from Maryland, Polytrichum ohioense, showed cytotoxicity in KB cell culture, but antitumor activity was not discovered in bryophytes until 1980. This led to a greater emphasis in collecting and screening bryophytes during 1980-1981. Samples weighing 0.5-2 kg (dried) were collected for each of 208 species and varieties. These included 184 species in 97 genera of mosses, 23 species in 16 genera of liverworts, and 1 hornwort. The methodologies for field work, extraction, and screening are briefly described. The screening results are summarized in a table listing all species alphabetically by family and by genus. For each species, the origin of the sample (country or state), collector's number, extract number, type of extract, and 3 bioassays employed (including the dose levels used and toxic dose for the P388 lymphocytic leukemia assay) are indicated. Extracts of 75 species were toxic; extracts of 43 species were active. Activity was especially noted in the moss families Thuidiaceae, Mniaceae, Neckeraceae, Hypnaceae, Brachytheciaceae, Polytrichaceae, Dicranaceae, and Grimmiaceae. The authors suggest that bryophytes are a promising source for discovery of novel biologically active compounds. The possibility that biological activity in bryophytes may be the result of allelopathy, or the reputed ability of bryophytes to accumulate toxic substances, is considered.
4251926|More than 40 years work with one species of Hevea has resulted in great improvement in yield. An organized effort is now being made to select from numerous wild species living material offering new characters for disease-resistance and increase in yield.
4255944| Allozyme variation was examined in three pejibaye (Bactris gasipaes) populations introduced into Hawaii for use in heart-of-palm improvement: Benjamin Constant (Putumayo landrace), San Carlos (Guatuso landrace) and Yurimaguas (Pampa Hermosa landrace). Nine enzymes encoded by 16 putative loci with a total of 38 alleles were resolved from meristem extract. Five loci were fixed in all populations, four additional loci were fixed in SC and one additional locus in BC. Six of the 38 alleles were rare, with three unique to BC and one to Y; two moderately high frequency alleles were unique to SC. Mean number of alleles per locus was lowest (1.6) in SC, with BC and Y having 2.1 alleles. Percentage of polymorphic loci was lowest in SC (44) and highest in Y (69). Observed heterozygosity was lowest in SC (0.051) and BC (0.066) and highest in Y (0.141). Nei's genetic identity was 0.985 between BC and Y and averaged 0.952 between SC and BC-Y. The low heterozygosities are probably due to a long history of selection and inbreeding (sib-mating) during the domestication process, followed by intensive recent selection for spinelessness and more inbreeding. All populations are very closely related, suggesting a single domestication event in Amazonia. /// A variao isoenzimtica foi examinada em trs populaes de pupunha (Bactris gasipaes) introduzidas no Havai para usar no melhoramento gentico da espcie para a produo de palmito fresco: Benjamin Constant (raa Putumayo), San Carlos (raa Guatuso) e Yurimaguas (raa Pampa Hermosa). Nove enzimas codificadas por 16 loci com um total de 38 alelos foram obtidas de um extrato meristemtico. Cinco loci foram fixados em todas as populaes, quatro outros loci foram encontrados somente em BC e um outro em Y; dois alelos com frequncias moderadamente altas foram encontrados somente em SC. O nmero mdio de alelos por locus foi menor em SC (1,6), com BC e Y apresentando 2,1 alelos por locus. A porcentagem de loci polimrficos foi menor em SC (44) e maior em Y (69). A heterozigosidade observada foi menor em SC (0.051) e BC (0.066), e maior em Y (0.141). A identidade gentica de Nei foi 0.985 entre BC e Y, e apresentou uma mdia de 0.952 entre SC e BC-Y. As heterozigosidades baixas so provavelmente devidas a uma longa histria de seleo e endocruzamento (entre irmos) durante o processo de domesticao, seguido recentemente por seleo intensiva contra espinhos e mais endocruzamentos. As trs populaes so muito aparentadas, sugerindo um nico evento de domesticao na Amaznia. 
4255972| Matsutake are the edible fruiting bodies of a few species of Tricholoma. The principal species are T. matsutake, T. magnivelare, and T. caligatum. Related species are T. bakamatsutake, T. quercicola, T. fulvocastaneum and T. robustum. These occur naturally throughout the Northern Hemisphere associated mainly with softwood trees but also with members of the Fagaceae. However, none have ever been cultivated or successfully introduced into new areas. They are held in very high regard in Japan where annual consumption is approximately 3000 tons. Annual production of matsutake in Japan is less than 1000 tons with the balance imported from China, North and South Korea, Canada, the USA, Morocco and Taiwan. Matsutake only fruit in late summer and autumn and are not found in the Southern Hemisphere. Therefore, there is the opportunity for it to be introduced into Southern Hemisphere countries and fruiting bodies produced for out-of-season Japanese markets. Wholesale prices in Japan range from 3350 to 70 000/kg (US$27-560) with the price reflecting quality, origin and availability. Retail prices at the start of the season can be up to 160 000/kg (US$1275). This paper reviews published and our own unpublished information on matsutake, and highlights areas of research that might result in a method for the cultivation of these fungi. /// Se llaman matsutake a los cuerpos fructferos comestibles de algunas especies de Tricholoma. Las especies principales son T. matsutake, T. magnivelare, y T. caligatum. Las especies emparentadas son T. bakamatsutake, T. quercicoia, T. fulvocastaneum y T. robustum. La distribucin natural de estas especies abarca a todo el hemisferio norte, asociadas principalmente con gimnospermas, pero tambin con miembros de Fagaceae. Sin embargo, ninguna especie ha sido cultivada ni introducida exitosamente a nuevas regiones. Son muy apreciados en Japn, donde se consumen anualmente unas 3000 toneladas. La produccin anual de matsutake en Japn es inferior a 1000 toneladas, siendo el resto importado de China, Korea del Norte y del Sur, Canad, EEUU, Marruecos y Taiwan. El matsutake slo fructifica a fines de verano y otoo, y no crece en el hemisferio sur. Por lo tanto, existe la oportunidad de introducirlo a pases del hemisferio sur y producir cuerpos fructferos fuera de estacin para los mercados Japoneses. En Japn los precios mayoristas se encuentran entre 3350 a 70 000/kg (US$27-560), siendo la variacin consecuencia de la calidad, origen y facilidad de obtencin. Los precios minoristas al comienzo de la estacin pueden llegar a 160 000/kg (US$1275). Este trabajo rene informacin publicada y nuestra informacin indita sobre matsutake, y destaca las reas de investigacin que podran resultar en una metodologa para cultivar estos hongos. 
40390590|The present study is a component of a baobab (Adansonia digitata L.) domestication research program being undertaken in Benin, Burkina Faso, Ghana, and Senegal. Surveys conducted on a total of 129 women and 281 men of different ages included questions on perceptions and human/cultural meaning of morphological variation, use forms, preferences (desirable/undesirable traits), and links between traits. Local people in the four countries use 21 criteria to differentiate baobab individuals in situ. According to them, the easier the bark harvesting, the tastier the pulp and leaves; the slimier the pulp, the less tasty it is; the more closely longitudinally marked the fruit capsules, the tastier the pulp. This study shows that farmers are able to use preferred combinations of traits as a guide in collecting germplasm from trees. This can allow the selection of trees that would be candidates for propagation, and planning for a domestication program based on the indigenous knowledge.
4256679| Use and conservation preferences for woody savanna species among the Gourounsi people in south-central Burkina Faso were investigated using a new informant-based valuation system. Two hundred informants from 10 villages evaluated the importance of 20 pre-selected woody species for nine different uses: edible fruits, vegetable sauce, construction, firewood, medicine, commerce, field trees, and conservation. The study identified eight key species: Parkia biglobosa, Vitellaria paradoxa, Tamarindus indica, Adansonia digitata, Vitex doniana, Detarium microcarpum, Bombax costatum, and Strychnos spinosa. They all had high commercial and nutritional value. The local knowledge about the selected woody species was similar between men and women, and between young and old, but it differed between villages. The results indicate that knowledge erosion does not take place among the Gourounsi, but considerable local differences exist. Conservation management should focus on the key species, and for these, assisted regeneration, tree planting, and further ecological research is recommended. /// Les prfrences d'utilisation et de conservation des ligneux de savane chez les Gourounsi au Centre Sud du Burkina Faso ont t examines  partir d'une nouvelle approche d'apprciation fonde sur l'informateur. Deux cents informateurs rpartis dans 10 villages ont apprci l'importance de 20 espces ligneuses, pralablement choisies, pour neuf diffrents types d'utilisation: fruits comestibles, lgume pour la sauce, bois de construction, bois de chauffe, pharmacope, commerce, arbres de champ et conservation. Huit espces cls ont t identifies par la prsente tude. Ce sont: Parkia biglobosa, Vitellaria paradoxa, Tamarindus indica, Adansonia digitata, Vitex doniana, Detarium microcarpum, Bombax costatum et Strychnos spinosa. Elles ont toutes haute valeur commerciale et nutritionnelle. La connaissances locales des ligneux choisis a t similaire entre femmes et hommes d'une part, et entre jeunes et personnes ges d'autre part. En revanche, une diffrence a t note entre les villages. Les rsultats ont rvl en que les Gourounsi n'ont rien perdu de leur connaissance ancienne, mais quelques diffrences notables existent  l'chelle locale. Le amnagement de la conservation devrait se focaliser sur les espces cls identifies pour lesquelles une rgnration assiste, une plantation d'arbres et d'autres recherches cologiques sont recommandes. 
4255467| Tapping into the vast pool of existing plant resource knowledge is the first step toward developing production systems that successfully balance ecological, economic, and cultural concerns in the newly formed extractive reserves in Acre, Brazil. Field research targeting extractive activities by women in the forest communities identified the most common species used by women, and documented specific information on the management, collection, and processing of these plants. The women demonstrate refined botanical knowledge and plant management skills, exploiting over 150 wild and domesticated species in their communities. They possess particular proficiency in processing plants, especially species used for food, spices, beverages, and medicines. Women also display a great desire to enter the market economy, and have begun to test potential market products on a small scale. As such they can play a key role in production, diversification, and development of economically valuable plant products, and ultimately in the success of the extractive reserves. / Uma anlise do manancial de conhecimento existente sobre os recursos florsticos constitui o primeiro passo no desenvolvimento de sistemas de produo que conciliem necessidades ecolgicas, econmicas e culturais nas recm-criadas reservas extrativistas no Acre, Brasil. Atravs de pesquisas de campo referentes s atividades extrativistas praticadas por mulheres em comunidades de mata, identificaram-se as espcies mais comumente usadas e documentaram-se informaes especficas sobre o manejo, coleta e processamento destas plantas. As mulheres exibem refinado conhecimento botnico e habilidade no manejo das plantas, explorando mais de 150 espcies silvestres e domesticadas em suas comunidades. Elas so especialmente competentes no processamento das plantas, principalmente das espcies usadas como alimento, temperos, bebidas e remdios. Alm disso, as mulheres demonstram forte desejo de participar da economia de mercado, tendo comeado a testar produtos potenciais em pequena escala. Desta maneira, elas podero desempenhar um papel na produo, diversificao e desenvolvimento dos produtos florsticos de importncia econmica e, em ltima instncia, no sucesso das reservas extrativistas. 
4287777|This chestnut, resistant to the annihilating blight of the American species, gives promise, in selected varieties, of providing an American source of edible nuts comparable to those now imported from Europe and threatened with extermination by the same blight.
4287769|In addition to furnishing clothing, food and shelter-the basic necessities of life-plants, in their utilization by man, have also furnished problems of public health in their production of alcohol, narcotics, allergies, poisons and specific human diseases.
4256452| Early remains of Helianthus annuus L. unearthed at the San Andrs site in the Gulf Coast region of Tabasco, Mexico, constitute the earliest record of domesticated sunflower. Accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) age determinations of a large domesticated seed and achene produced dates of 4130  40 years before the present (B.P.) and 4085  50 B.P., respectively. These discoveries challenge the longstanding hypothesis that sunflower was domesticated in eastern North America. Moreover, when considered with other recent discoveries on plant domestication, these data suggest a reconsideration of the idea that the eastern United States was an independent hearth for domestication. /// Los registros ms antiguos del girasol lo constituyen los primeror restos de Helianthus annuus L. desenterrados en el sitio de San Andrs, Tabasco, en la costa del Golfo de Mxico. Mediante el acelerador de espectrometra de masas se determin la edad de una semilla grande domesticada y un aquenio se obtuvieron dos fechas de 4130  40 aos antes del presente (A.P.) y 4085  50 A.P., respectivamente. Estos descubrimientos ponen en duda la hiptesis de hace tiempo que dice que el girasol fue domesticado en el este de Norte Amrica. Tambin, cuando se tomaron en cuenta otros descubrimientos sobre domesticacin de plantas, estos datos suguieren una reconsideracin de la idea que el este de los Estados Unidos fue un centro independiente de domesticacin. 
4253872| During our stay of several years in the south of the Upper-Shaba region of Zare, we observed that the consumption of wild mushrooms constitutes an appreciable food supplement for the local populations. It seemed of interest to us to try to determine the species consumed as well as their food value-this type of systematic study having not yet been undertaken in Central Africa. Our preliminary data have already been published in 1973 (Thoen et al.). 
4254376|The data reported in the literature concerning the uses and composition of yarrow, Achillea millefolium aggr., Compositae, are compiled and discussed. Historically, this plant has been extensively used as a herbal remedy for numerous afflictions by many cultures on several continents. It has also been the subject of a considerable number of scientific investigations. It has, however, not been previously reviewed. Analysis of available information demonstrates the value of continued phytochemical investigations of folklore remedies.
40390482|The highland Maya of Chiapas in southern Mexico gather, consume, and sell a wide variety of mushrooms during the rainy season from June to November. The mushrooms are prized as a valuable source of nutrition and income, and a few species are used medicinally. No evidence exists for current or historical use of hallucinogenic mushrooms, though descriptions of mushroom intoxication suggest nonspecific knowledge about the presence of psychoactive properties in some mushrooms. Free-listing exercises elicited 50 or more mushroom names in each of the two main highland Mayan languages, Tzeltal and Tzotzil. Identification exercises using mushroom photographs permitted a preliminary assignment of mycological species, genera, or families to many of the local mushroom names collected in freelists. Field identification during the rainy reason further emphasized the concordance of many local names with distinctive mycological groups or taxa. Mushroom sketches made by informante revealed the detailed knowledge many of the highland Maya maintain about mushroom morphology, ecology, and diversity. Mayan mushroom classification provides additional evidence for several of the universally presumed principles of ethnobiological classification. However, in contrast to their classification of plants, the Mayan system of mushroom classification is mostly concerned with edible and other useful species. (One such species, previously unknown to science, is described here.) Most species with no cultural use are presumed by the highland Maya to be poisonous and are relegated to a wastebasket category known locally as "stupid" or "crazy" mushrooms.
4256774| On both theoretical and practical grounds, respect for, and inclusion of, local decision-making processes is advocated in conservation, yet little is known about the conservation priorities on local territories. We employed interviews and ecological inventories in two villages in order to (1) evaluate the local perception of the conservation status of important plant resources; (2) compare patterns of plant use; and (3) compare perceived conservation status with population structure and abundance in the field. One-third of the 35 species examined were perceived to be threatened or declining. These were predominantly used locally for construction or sold commercially, but were not necessarily rare in the field. The destructiveness of harvest was the most consistent predictor of conservation status in both villages. Contrasting patterns were found in the two villages for the frequency of plant harvest and the relationship of this variable with conservation status. We suggest that local knowledge is an efficient means to rapidly assess the status of a large number of species, whereas population structure analysis provides an initial evaluation of the impact of harvest for selected species. /// Tanto desde una perspectiva terica como prctica el respeto e inclusin de los procesos locales de toma de decisiones es una forma en que la conservacin puede ser promovida. Sin embargo, poco se sabe sobre las prioridades de conservacin en territorios indgenas. En el presente estudio se emplearon entrevistas e inventarios ecolgicos en dos localidades indgenas para (1) evaluar la percepcin de los habitantes locales sobre el estado de conservacin de recursos vegetales importantes; (2) comparar los patrones de uso de plantas; y (3) comparar la percepcin del estado de conservacin con la estructura de las poblaciones y la abundancia de las especies en el campo. Una tercera parte de las 35 especies estudiadas fueron percibidas como amenazadas o en proceso de declinacin. Se trata de plantas utilizadas principalmente como materiales de construccin o que aportan productos que son comercializados, pero que no son necesariamente escasas en el campo. En ambas localidades la variable que predijo el estado de conservacin de forma ms consistente fue el grado de destruccin de las plantas asociado a las prcticas de cosecha. Encontramos patrones contrastantes entre las dos localidades con respecto a la frecuencia de cosecha y a la relacin de esta variable con el estado de conservacin de las plantas. Sugerimos que el uso de conocimientos locales es una forma eficiente de evaluar con rapidez el estado de un gran nmero de especies, en tanto que el anlisis de la estructura de poblaciones aporta una evaluacin inicial sobre el impacto de la cosecha para algunas especies de inters. 
4255517|Thousands of plant and animal species in tropical regions provide a variety of non-timber products that are used by billions of people all over the world. Conservation and long term utilization of these species require that they be harvested on a sustainable basis. However, the extent to which non-timber forest products are exploited without adverse effects on natural populations is not known. There is in fact considerable evidence for non-sustainable harvest of non-timber products. We outline methods that may be used to assess the impact of harvest on population processes of the species that are being harvested. We present sampling protocols for rapid assessment as well as long term monitoring of populations. We briefly consider the limitations of these methods and suggest that the monitoring protocols we outline should be part of an overall management plan designed to extract and utilize non-timber tropical forest products on a long term basis.
4251951|Industrial production of citric acid through the fermentation processes of fungi is being carried on by three companies in the United States. Application of recently developed submerged culture methods have produced yields as great as those obtained by the longer established surface culture technique.
4255611| The starch grain is a diagnostic feature of multiple applications according to the peculiarities and origin of the plant material to be determined. Its morphological characteristics are studied through the analysis of samples from different origin and different preservation conditions, as flours, commercial starches, drugs, spices and archaeological remains (especially carbonized material). The usefulness and importance of the methods and techniques applied in each case are also discussed. / El grano de almidn constituye un caracter de diagnstico de variada utilidad en funcin de las particularidades y origen del material vegetal a determinar. Se realiza un estudio de sus caractersticas morfolgicas mediante el anlisis de muestras provenientes de distintos orgenes y en diferentes estados de conservacin, desde harinas y fculas hasta drogas, especias y material arqueolgico, en particular carbonizado. Se discuten asimismo la utilidad e importancia de los mtodos y tcnicas utilizadas en cada caso. 
4252151|Bruising, crushing, and other mechanical injuries cause very serious losses during the handling, transportation, storage, and marketing of fresh fruits and vegetables. Spoilage caused by molds and bacteria exacts a heavy toll. Freezing, chilling injury, and various physiological disorders add to the consumer cost of living. Careful handling, proper refrigeration, good marketing practices, and the use of safe, approved chemical treatments can reduce marketing losses.
4254217|After screening 200 species of Puerto Rican plants, Solanum nodiflorum was selected for comprehensive laboratory evaluation as a source of natural molluscicide. All parts of this plant were found toxic to the snails Fossaria (Lymnaea) cubensis, Lymnaea columella, Biomphalaria glabrata, and Physa cubensis. No toxicity was found against Marisa cornuarietis and Tarebia granifera. The toxicant was not affected by pH and dry storage. There was a direct correlation between temperature and molluscicidal activity. The plant is easy to find locally and could be developed into cheap, safe means for controlling both Schistosoma and Fasciola snail hosts in Puerto Rico.
4254368|Brosimum alicastrum is a large, evergreen tropical tree which is widely distributed in Mexico. Its protein-rich seeds and leaves may be used for food and forage, and several medicines and beverages can be made from parts of the tree. Although an important alternative food in pre-Columbian times, the current use of the tree is very limited. Recent studies indicate that its increased use would be extremely beneficial, and that the most immediate means for accomplishing this are the collection and processing of seeds from natural forests and the establishment of plantations for forage.
4256987| An analysis of the taxonomic composition of 6,496 samples of plants collected for the National Cancer Institute is conducted and the results are presented. The results show that collecting has been highly biased towards woody plant families, as these species are often abundant, they yield samples of multiple parts, and it is often easy to collect sufficient material for isolation of chemicals present in low concentration. Conversely, herbaceous plants that are small or grow in sparse populations are underrepresented in collections. Three of the ten generically most diverse families in Madagascar have not been sampled, and of these ten families, only Rubiaceae and Euphorbiaceae have had greater numbers of samples collected than predicted if collecting was random. The causes of this bias are discussed, and solutions to ensure that bioprospecting efforts gather samples reflective of the diversity present are presented. /// Une analyze de la composition taxonomique de 6496 chantillons recolts pour le National Cancer Institute est conduite et les resultants obtenus montrent que la rcolte a t foretment biaise, tendant pour une forte proportion des familles des plantes ligneuses don't les espces sont souvent abondantes, peuvent fournir plusieurs sortes d'chantillon et souvent permettent facilement de collecter suffisament des matrielles pour l'isolation des composes chimiques presents  faible concentration. Contrairement, les plantes herbaces que sont de petites tailles our qui poussent avec des populations clairsemes sont sous representes dans les collections. Trois parmi les dix familles gnriquement les plus diversifies n'ont pas t recoltes, et de ces dix familles, seules les Rubiaceae et les Euphorbiaceae ont eu les plus grands nombres d'chantillons que prvus si la rcolte a t fait au hazard. Les cause de cette disproportion sont discutes et les solutions pour assurer que les efforts de bioprospection rassemblent des chantillons refltant la diversit prsente sont presentes. 
4257088| El Ingenioso Hidalgo, Don Quijote de la Mancha, by Miguel de Cervantes (1547-1616), is the best-known work of Spanish literature. We searched this and the other works of Cervantes for references to plants, plant communities, and products. These texts capture the customs, thoughts, beliefs, and traditions of Spanish culture in the late 16th and early 17th centuries. They also repeat literary themes of ancient Greek and Roman literature. Plant citations were grouped in three categories: plants as part of the environment, useful plants, and plants in symbolic expressions. A total of 150 species were registered, 102 of which appear in Don Quijote. The taxa with the highest frequency of occurrence are Vitis vinifera, Phoenix dactylifera, Triticum aestivum, Laurus nobilis, Rosa spp., Olea europaea, Quercus ilex, and Arundo donax. The number of references to plants and the variety of species seem to attest to a sound and intimate knowledge of plants, their relevance as a landscape feature, and their utility. Many edible, ornamental, technological, and medicinal plants are referred to either explicitly or implicitly. Several species are mentioned in a figurative sense through references to their symbolic meaning, in proverbs, idiomatic expressions, metaphors, or by mentioning them in comparisons and literary figures of speech. /// El ingenioso hidalgo, Don Quijote de la Mancha es la obra ms conocida de la literatura espaola, escrita por Miguel de Cervantes (1547-1616). Se ha revisado esta obra de la literatura universal y el resto de las obras escritas por Cervantes para recopilar todas las plantas, comunidades y productos vegetales que aparecen en las mismas. Estos textos literarios han sido estudiados como fuente etnobotnica, ya que reflejan costumbres, ideas, creencias y tradiciones de la cultura de la Espaa de hace 400 aos. Tambin incluyen numerosas reminiscencias de los textos clsicos de la literatura griega y latina. Las referencias se han sistematizado en tres categoras: plantas como elementos del paisaje, plantas tiles y plantas empleadas en expresiones simblicas. Se han registrado un total de 150 especies, 102 en Don Quijote. Las especies ms citadas son: Vitis vinifera, Phoenix dactylifera, Triticum aestivum, Laurus nobilis, Rosa spp., Olea europaea, Quercus ilex, y Arundo donax. El elevado nmero de citas y especies muestra la familiaridad, el conocimiento y relevancia cultural del mundo vegetal, tanto como elemento predominante del paisaje, como en lo referente a usos de plantas. Los textos refieren de un modo explcito o implcito el uso de numerosas plantas (comestibles, ornamentales, tecnolgicas y medicinales). Muchas especies aparecen en sentido figurado por su significado simblico, en refranes, frases hechas, metforas, comparaciones y otras figuras literarias. 
4256732| Chusquea ramosissima is called "the beetle's knife" by a Guaran community. In this research, the use of this cane as a spike and a cutting element, as well as its relationship with certain beetles, is discussed. This relationship is the basis of a story that explains the origin of these species and other entities from the Guaran point of view. /// Chusquea ramosissima es conocida como "el cuchillo del escarabajo" en una comunidad guaran. La investigacin acerca de tal denominacin destaca su uso como elemento cortante y punzante y revela su interaccin con ciertos colepteros. A su vez, en esta interaccin se basa un relato que explica el origen de estas especies y el de otras entidades, desde la ptica aborigen. 
4256110|Diospyros species distributed widely in Thailand were classified into four ecotypes, according to their habitat; constantly humid area, alternately dry and wet area, mountainous cool area and all area. Some of them inhabit near dwelling areas or in the paddy field in the village. The young fruit is covered with dense pubescence in most species. The size, shape, and color of mature fruit greatly vary greatly with the species. In most species, the mature fruit has a soft pulp and hard skin. The fruit of six species has been used for dying. Four species produce edible fruits, with color and flavor favorable for breeding of edible Diospyros species. The fruit of some species contains some chemicals useful as fish poisoning or of medicines, although the active components have not yet been identified. The edible fruit contained many tannin cells, but the fruit used as fish poisoning and medicines had only a few. / [Abstract in Chinese]
4255174| Cultivation of plants in northern China began at an early date. A number of domesticates were derived from native species, and others were introduced from southeastern Asia. Many vegetable species are included in myths and stories of ancient China. These traditional stories, as well as ancient agricultural and medicinal books, often mention cultivated members of the Cucurbitaceae. Twelve genera and 18 species of cucurbits are currently under cultivation in China. A number of them appear to be endemic to Indochina, while others were introduced from Western Asia and the New World. A recent trip to China and a survey of Chinese literature indicated that many cucurbits are consumed in the immature state as vegetables, some are eaten as fruits, and various species are used for medicine and a variety of other purposes. /// El cultivo de las plantas comenz en una edad temprana en el norte de China. Varias plantas domsticas fueron derivadas de especies nativas, mientras que otras fueran introducidas desde el sudeste de Asia. Las historias y los mitos de la China antiqua cuentan de diversas especies vegetales. Estos relatos tradicionales, tanto como los viejos libros de las agricultura y medicina, frecuentemente mencionan los miembros cultivados de las Cucurbitaceae. Hoy en da se cultivan doce gneros y dieciocho especies de las familia en la China. Algunas Cucurbitaceae parecen ser endmicos de la Indochina, mientras que otras fueron introducidas desde el oeste de Asia y del Nuevo Mundo. Un viaje reciente a la China y un estudio de la literatura China indicaron que muchas Cucurbitaceae son consumidas en el estado inmaduro, algunas son comidas como frutas, y varias especies son utilizadas en medicina u otros propositos. 
4252012|Carob is the large bean-like pod of a handsome evergreen tree of the same name. Containing 40% sugar and 6% protein, it is chiefly used for stock food and is manufactured into various forms of human food. From the seeds comes a valuable gum, in increasing demand in commerce. Carob trees thrive in parts of California without irrigation.
4253576|Weeds evolved, and are still evolving, within the man-made habitat in three principal ways: from colonizers through selection towards adaptation to continuous habitat disturbance; as derivatives of hybridization between wild and cultivated races of domestic species; and through selection towards re-establishing natural seed dispersal mechanisms in abandoned domesticates. Domesticates differ from weeds primarily in degree of dependency on man for survival. They evolved from wild food plants which were brought into cultivation. The process of domestication was initiated when man started to propagate plants in successive generations by means of seed or vegetative propagules. Phenotypic changes associated with planting and harvesting are species specific, and are brought about by natural selection under conditions of cultivation. Artificial selection by man during the domestication process is primarily responsible for subspecific variation in domestic species.
4253448|The well-known opium poppy (Papaver somniferum L.) furnishes opiates, ornamentals, poppyseed, poppyseed oil, poppycake, poppy flour, poppy straw and potherbs. Poppies also furnish analgesics, anodynes, ant food, antibiotics, anti-malarials, aphrodisiacs, baby rattles, bird food, copper indicators, cough remedies, demulcents, diaphoretics, diarrhea cures, febrifuges, fuel, fumitories, goiter treatments, hemostatics, hypnotics, imbedding media, indicators of the geographic origin of opium, molybdenum indicators, polyploidy inducers, salad vegetables, sedatives, sudorifics, tranquilizers and vesicants.
4255780| Seeds and plants of Amaranthus have been a source of food for many cultures in the world. Some species can be found as weeds or growing wild under severe climatic and soil conditions, but their potential as food sources has not been studied. The objective of this work was to study the nutritional quality of four wild species of Amaranthus, A. retroflexus (AR), A. viridis (AV), A. palmeri (AP) and A. blitoides (AB) as potential sources of vegetable greens. Histochemical studies showed higher levels of starch in leaves of AR and AB, moderate amounts of tannins in all leaves, high protein concentration in stems and leaves, and moderate amounts of alkaloids in all tissues of AV and AB. Antinutritional factors (nitrates, oxalates, cyanogenic glycosides, tannins and phytates) were quantified in plants at the preflowering stage, but only nitrates were found at levels (0.34-2% dw) above those generally considered as safe, but at similar levels found in spinach. No cyanogenic glycosides were detected in any species. Bromatologic analysis of whole or different plant parts at preflowering and maturity (mature seeds) showed that mature whole plants or individual sections can be recommended as animal feed since they contain high levels of protein (20.6-24.7% whole plant, 25.3-32.9% leaves) and soluble carbohydrate (>40%). Amaranthus plants could be best consumed as vegetables at the preflowering stage. At this stage, the highest protein concentrations were found in leaves (22.8-27.8%), while the remaining chemical composition was very similar to that found in other food vegetables. The four species showed similar chemical compositions, and had no detrimental chemicals which would deter their use as vegetable foods. Organoleptic taste preference studies would best indicate the stage at which the plant should be harvested for human consumption. / Las semillas y plantas de Amaranthus (alegra) han sido fuente de alimento para muchas culturas del mundo. Algunas especies pueden encontrarse como maleza o creciendo en forma silvestre bajo condiciones climticas o de suelo muy severas, pero su potencial como alimento no ha sido estudiado. El objetivo de este trabajo fue el de estudiar el potencial nutricional como hortaliza de cuatro especies silvestres de Amaranthus, A. retroflexus (AR), A. viridis (AV), A. palmeri y A. blitoides (AB). Los estudios histoqumicos demostraron altos niveles de almidn en hojas de AR y AB, cantidades moderadas de taninos en todas las hojas, una alta concentracin de protena en tallos y hojas, y un contenido moderado de alcaloides en todos los tejidos de AV y AB. Se cuantificaron los factores antinutricionales (nitratos, oxalatos, glucsidos cianognicos, taninos y fitatos) en plantas en la etapa de prefloracin, y solamente los nitratos se encontraron en nivelesarriba de los considerados seguros (0.34-2% p.s.), pero a niveles similares a los de la espinaca. En ninguna especie se detectaron glucsidos cianognicos. El anlisis bromatolgico mostr que plantas enteras y sus secciones en las etapas de prefloracin y madura pueden ser recomendadas como alimento animal ya que contienen altos niveles de protena (20.6-24.7% planta entera, 25.3-32.9% hojas) y carbohidratos solubles (>40%). Las plantas de Amaranthus pueden se consumidas como hortalizas en la etapa de prefloracin. En esta etapa se encontraron los niveles mximos de protena en las hojas (22.8-27.8%), mientras que la composicin bromatolgica restante fue muy similar a la encontrada en otras hortalizas. Las cuatro especies mostraron una composicin qumica muy similar y mostraron la ausencia de compuestos qumicos dainos que impedira su uso como hortaliza. Estudios de preferencia organolptica seran los mejores indicadores de la mejor etapa de cultivo de estas especies para consumo humano. 
4255192|The paper deals with some important medicinal plants used in human skin diseases in Uttar Pradesh, India. Fifty species of 47 genera belonging to 30 families of pteridophytes and angiosperms are reported along with dosage rate and mode of administration.
4287911|As ornamental subjects and as the source of raw material for papermaking, textiles, basketry, matting, rope, house construction, furniture, bridges and fishing equipment, bamboos have a greater diversity of uses in the Orient than any other group of closely related plants.
4252930|Four steroid-bearing clones of Dioscorea tested in a replicated varietal trial on Everglades peat soil near Belle Glade, Florida, included three introductions of D. spiculiflora Hemsl. and one selection of D. composita Hemsl. On an acre basis, D. composita, P. I. 201783, produced over 21 tons of dry tubers and 1,049 lbs of crude sapogenins. Tuber and sapogenin yields from the highest producing D. spiculiflora, P. I. 252887, were approximately 1/3 and 1/2 respectively, of these amounts. Yield differences were not significant between plots harvested 2 1/2 and 3 1/2 years after planting. The failure of tubers to increase in size in the last growing season was attributed to the restriction on growth imposed by the high water table at the test site.
4251945|Large-scale use of plant growth-regulating chemicals, unheard of ten years ago, has fostered a multimillion dollar business. In 1948, 27 1/2 million pounds of 2,4-D, once used only in minute doses for laboratory work, were manufactured for agricultural use, primarily in weed eradication. Naphthaleneacetic acid and other compounds are used in smaller but continually increasing quantities in regulating other phases of plant development, wholly apart from nutritional needs supplied by fertilizers.
4255843| The application of ecological concepts to ethnobotanical studies, in particular of diversity, is analyzed. Diversity indices are important tools that may help in understanding human-environment interactions. Those indices allow comparisons on the use of plants by different populations in different environments. A review on recent major ethnobotanical journals was carried out, and 10 studies (7 from Latin America, 2 from Asia and 1 from Europe) were selected based on available data to calculate diversity indices. The Shannon-Wiener indices and rarefaction curves were obtained. High diversity on plant uses were found for studies carried out at Peru, Mexico, Brazil and Thailand. A low diversity was found for Tonga, and island biogeography theory is used to discuss these results. Sampling effort is evaluated through rarefaction curves. The estimation of the diversity of resources used by native populations may be useful when planning conservation areas and their management. /// O Uso de Mtodos Ecolgicos em Etnobotnica: ndices de Diversidade. A aplicao de conceitos de ecologia em estudos etnobotnicos, em particular diversidade,  analisada. Os ndices de diversidade so ferramentas importantes que nos ajudam a entender as interaes humanas com o ambiente. Esses ndices permitem comparar o uso de plantas por populaes diferentes em ambientes diferentes. Foi realizada uma reviso nos principais peridicos recentes de etnobotnica e foram selecionados 10 estudos (7 da Amrica Latina, 2 da sia e l da Europa), com base na disponibilidade de dados, para o clculo dos indices de diversidade. Indices de Shannon-Wiener e curvas de rarefao foram obtidas. Foi encontrada uma alta diversidade de uso de plantas para Peru, Mxico, Brazil e Tailndia. Uma baixa diversidade foi encontrada em Tonga, e a biogeografia de ilhas  usada para discutir os resultados. O esforo de amostragem  avaliado com base nas curvas de rarefao. A estimativa da diversidade dos recursos usados por populaes nativas pode ser util no planejamento de reas de conservao e em seu manejo. 
4254419|An hypothesis is advanced based upon geographical information and data from horizontal starch gel electrophoresis regarding the place and mode of evolution of the chili peppers (Capsicum). The hypothesis suggests a major portion of the genus Capsicum arose in a nuclear area in south central Bolivia with subsequent migration into the Andes and lowland Amazonia accompanied by radiation and speciation.
4256926| Tropical landscapes represent storehouses of medicinal drug plants. It is widely held that these medicinal resources-real and potential-are threatened by a host of destructive forces. This paper examines these threats, especially the process of culture change and ethnobotanical erosion, in a rural Brazilian community. Employing a quantitative analysis of a sample plant pharmacopoeia, we investigate the relationship between medicinal plant knowledge and age, gender, and socio-economic standing. The results indicate that female gender, increasing age, illiteracy, and decreasing formal education are all positively correlated with level of medicinal plant knowledge. The process of modernization, particularly increasing access to formal education, appears to be incompatible with the retention of traditional domains of medical knowledge. Increasingly perceived as an irrelevant province of past generations, knowledge of the healing powers of tropical forests and fields is rapidly declining in this community. /// As reas tropicais representam verdadeiras reservas de plantas medicinais. A maioria das pessoas acreditam que estes recursos medicinais-reais e potenciais-esto ameaados por muitas atividades destrutivas. Este artigo examina esta ameaa, especialmente o processo da mudana cultural e a ruina etnobotnica em uma comunidade rural brasileira. Fazendo a anlise quantitativa de uma amostra da farmacopia das plantas, ns investigamos as relaes entre o conhecimento das plantas medicinais e alguns fatores como: idade, gnero e nvel scio-econmico. Os resultados indicaram que o gnero feminino, o aumento da idade, o analfabetismo e o baixo nvel da educao formal so todos positivamente correlacionados com o nvel de conhecimento das plantas medicinais. O processo de modernizao, principalmente o maior acesso a educao formal, parece ser incompatvel com a manuteno do conhecimento das plantas medicinais. O conhecimento do poder de cura das plantas das florestas e campos tropicais esto diminuindo rapidamente nessa comunidade pois no e mais visto como uma coisa relevante como j foi em geraes passada. 
4251866|A corn-like cereal grass which among its 400 known varieties produces broomcorn, the principal material used in the manufacture of brooms, and important edible grains of Africa and Asia-durra, kafir, milo, shallu, kaoliang, feterita and hegari.
4252455|This is a review of the literature on the use of cycads as food and medicine, with special attention to their toxic properties. In the tropics and subtropics, where the plants are indigenous, their toxicity has long been known. Both gastrointestinal and neurological effects have been reported. Although several toxic components of the plants have been investigated, none has yet been shown to be responsible for specific effects. No lesion has been demonstrated to account for the progressive and apparently irreversible posterior paralysis which reputedly follows consumption of the plants by cattle. Current interest in the toxicity of the cycads has been stimulated by recognition of the high incidence of neurological diseases in an area of the world where they are used as food.
4255086|Palm wine is an alcoholic beverage consumed by rural people in Maputaland, Natal, South Africa. Nutritional information on the nutrient content of palm wine from Hyphaene coriacea and Phoenix reclinata was obtained in order to provide more detailed nutritional data than were previously available. The results showed that while palm wine is an important source of nicotinic acid and vitamin C, previous studies appear to have overestimated its value as a source of protein, thiamin, and riboflavin.
4253038|Tabernanthe iboga is an apocynaceous shrub native to the forests of Gabon and the northern Congo. First described in the late 1800's, it has been reasonably well studied by botanists. The roots of T. iboga contain several indole alkaloids, of which the most important, ibogaine, is a central stimulant and in large doses an hallucinogen. In Gabon, the roots are used in the initiation rites to a number of secret societies, of which the Bwiti is most famous. The plant remains to this day a central feature of local religion, and its spectacular effects have hampered native acceptance of Christianity in Gabon.
4254421| A 16  35-ft tarpaulin supported by rope and posts is used to protect drying plant samples from rain and dew. The tarpaulin can be quickly lowered in place when showers threaten and provide space below for circulation of air. 
4256486| The Heike Nky, Japanese scrolls of Buddhist sutras created in 1164 AD, includes illustrations of an Ipomoea that has long been identified by Japanese scholars as I. nil. What makes this occurrence of I. nil in pre-Columbian Japan remarkable is that all of its closest relatives are American plants. We give a synopsis of the history of this economically important species. Then, using cladistic analysis, we show the relationships of I. nil to I. eriocalyx, I. hederacea, I. indica, I. laeta, I. lindheimeri, I. meyeri, and I. pubescens. Six of these eight species in Ipomoea series Heterophyllae are endemic to the New World. Ipomoea indica is pantropical, and may be carried by ocean currents. We offer four hypotheses as to how this putatively tropical American species may have arrived in Asia: 1) Ipomoea nil was introduced through long-distance dispersal by animals; 2) Ipomoea nil was introduced by humans in a pre-Columbian context; 3) The Ipomoea in the Heike Nky scrolls does not represent I. nil, but a different native Asian species; and 4) Ipomoea nil was introduced during post-Columbian times by Europeans. There are problems with accepting any of these possible alternatives. /// Los Heike Nky, pergaminos japoneses creados por sutras Budhistas en 1164 AD, incluyen ilustraciones de una Ipomoea que ha sido identificada por estudiosos japoneses como I. nil. La presencia de I. nil en Japn pre-Colombino es notable porque todos sus parientes cercanos son nativos del continente Americano tropical. Aqu presentamos un resmen de la historia de esta planta, que es de importancia econmica. Luego, usando un anlisis cladstico, mostramos las relaciones de I. nil con I. eriocalyx, I. hederacea, I. indica, I. laeta, I. lindheimeri, I. meyeri, e I. pubescens. Seis de estas ocho especies de Ipomoea serie Heterophyllae son endmicas al Nuevo Mundo. Ipomoea indica es pantropical, y tal vez sea traido por corrientes ocenicas. Ofrecemos cuatro hiptesis para explicar como esta especie, de origen aparentemente americano tropical, puede haber llegado a Asia: 1) Ipomoea nil fue introducida a traves de dispersin a larga distancia por animales; 2) Ipomoea nil fue intoducida por humanos en un contexto pre-Colombino; 3) La Ipomoea en los pergaminos Heike Nky no representa a I. nil, sino a otra especie nativa de Asia; 4) Ipomoea nil fue introducida durante tiempos post-Colombinos por europeos. Hay problemas con la aceptacin de todas estas alternativas. 
4252932| Autopsy records (1936-66) show esophageal cancer to be the most common tumor for both men and women among the locally-born negroid population of Curaao. Crude incidence rate of 20.9 per 100,000, virtually constant over 30 years, is exceeded only by that of certain parts of Russia and the Transkei region of South Africa. The island of Aruba (42 miles distant) has a very low incidence. Drought conditions and food and water supply are virtually identical in both islands, also reverse smoking by women only. But there are striking contrasts in the use of plants for remedies. In Curaao, more than 100 species of local plants are employed for self-medication and for "tea." Interrogation of living esophageal cancer victims and survivors of deceased has revealed consistent use of these plants. Species cited most frequently in interviews are being collected, lyophilized, and supplied to the Laboratory of Pathology, National Cancer Institute, for animal-testing. 
4251841|In which Spanish moss, Palmetto palm, Spartina grass and Teasel bur each plays its role by contributing to the manufacture of particular commodities.
4254507|An analysis is provided of certain types of crop description and their uses. It is suggested that users of some forms of crop description could benefit if greater consistency of content could be achieved-particularly in dictionary entries, broadly-based articles and chapters, and forms closely related to these two. Ways of making these improvements without restricting authors' freedoms are discussed.
4256808| This paper reports on the knowledge and useful applications of various fungi by the Hot, a recently contacted Native American society inhabiting the Sierra Maigualida region of the Venezuelan Amazon. At least 31 folk taxa of fungi are esteemed as sources of nutrition, powerful media for hunting magic, protective charms against black magic, human medicinal agents, or body adornments. Even though the results presented here probably do not exhaust the total number of species known and used by them, they nevertheless suggest that the Hot constitute one of the rare mycophilic societies in the Venezuelan Amazon. Further research is needed in order to obtain a more complete picture of the complexity of human-fungi relationships in this society. /// La investigacin etnomicolgica en la tierras bajas amaznicas suramericanas es notablemente escasa. La gran mayora de los estudios disponibles acerca del conocimiento y las prcticas etnobiolgicos de los grupos tnicos locales de esta regin no incluyen a los hongos, o bien, sealan que estos no tienen valor econmico, o son alucingenos o peligrosos para el consumo humano. Este trabajo reporta sobre el conocimiento y usos dados a varios hongos por parte de los Hot, un grupo de indgenas suramericanos recientemente contactados que ocupan la Sierra de Maigualida del Amazonas venezolano. Los Hot consideran al menos 31 taxa de hongos estimados como fuentes de alimentos, poderosos medios de cacera, protectores contra la magia negra, agentes medicinales o bien como adornos corporales. Los datos presentados aqu sugieren que los Hot constituyen una de las pocas y raras sociedades micfilas en el Amazonas venezolano, pese a que los resultados analizados no agotan el nmero total de especies conocidas y usadas por ellos. Es necesario profundizar la investigacin para alcanzar una idea ms completa de la complejidad de las relaciones hombres-hongos en este grupo tnico. 
4254970|The distinction between the rights to land and rights to plants is often overlooked when viewing agricultural tenure in developing countries. This distinction is crucial to understanding traditional agricultural systems, especially where agroforestry is practiced or its introduction has been proposed. Rights to land versus rights to plants are viewed in two Asia-Pacific agroforestry systems: one in Indonesian Borneo and the other in Papua New Guinea. Conflicts are discussed between the traditional dichotomy of land and plant rights and government policy. The success of an indigenous agroforestry system based on plant rights is contrasted to the failure of a proposed agroforestry system for similar reasons. It is concluded that the perceptual separation of land and plant rights needs to be explored if agroforestry practices are not only to be ecologically and economically feasible but also culturally acceptable.
4256605|Some evidence of the existence of an ancient pharmacological theory-the Doctrine of Signatures-has been found in the folk medicine of Israel. The research reported 14 plants with folk medicinal uses based on the Doctrine of Signatures categories including: similarity of the plant or plant organ to the damaged human organ (Alhagi maurorum, camel thorn; Astragalus macrocarpus, milk-vetch; and Cynoglossum creticum, blue hound's tongue), similarity to animal shape or behavior (Heliotropium europaeum, European tumsole; Asteriscus spinosus, starwort; and Briza maxima, large quaking grass), similarity of plant color to the color of the disease's symptoms or the medical phenomena (Rhamnus alaternus, Italian buckthorn; Citrullus colocynthis, bitter gourd; and Ecballium elaterium, squirting cucumber), and similarity of plant habitat or characteristic to human features (Parietaria judaica, wall pellitory; and Ruta chalepensis, African rue).
4253489|The effect of light and temperature on germination of two accessions of Limnanthes alba Benth. seed, a potential source of seed oil, were determined. Seed were germinated on a two-way thermogradient plate and in plastic dishes. Temperatures on the thermogradient plate ranged from 5 to 25 C and the temperature gradients were changed on an 8-16 hr cycle. Germination occurred over all treatments when averaged over a constant temperature range of 5 to 17 C. However, maximum germination at constant temperatures occurred at 9 to 13 C. Light suppressed germination on the thermogradient plate at temperatures which were not optimum for germination. Maximum germination and seedling growth were observed at an alternating temperature of 10 C for 16 hr and 15 C for 8 hr in continuous dark conditions.
4252216|The cashew tree, native to Brazil was introduced into India in the 16th century for the purpose of checking erosion on the coasts. India is a world leader in the production and export of cashew nuts, while cultivation of this crop in the western hemisphere has remained negligible. Present demand far exceeds the supply. New developments in processing methods and machinery, and new uses for by-products, particularly cashew shell oil, have stimulated cashew culture in East Africa and Brazil and should give impetus to establishment of this lucrative crop on a commercial basis in other tropical areas.
4251847| Cotton, sugarcane, rice, maize, yuca, bananas, flax and olives grow on the coastal lowlands; oca, ullucu, au, quinua and temperate climate fruit trees in the mountains; cinchona, coffee, mahogany, Spanish cedar, palms, bamboo and cub in the forested montaa. 
4256098|Impact of extraction of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) was analyzed in a thorn scrub forest in Biligiri Rangaswamy Temple (BRT) wildlife sanctuary, India. Six species are most commonly extracted from BRT scrub for subsistence and income generation by an aboriginal tribe, the Soliga. Although the forest has been provided protection from indiscriminate felling since 1978 under a wildlife sanctuary cover, changes in vegetation structure are still occurring as a consequence of anthropogenic pressure in the form of extraction of fuelwood and other NTFPs. The results indicate that large woody species are being replaced by small woody species. The population structure also is becoming increasingly skewed to the smaller size classes due to extraction-bound mortality of the individuals, particularly those >7 cm dbh and above. The data suggest that the scrub community itself may be a manifestation of long persisting anthropogenic pressure in the form of extraction of a variety of forest products, and it currently represents a downward transition from a deciduous forest to a shrub thicket.
4255136| McClintock, Kato Y., and Blumenschein reported the occurrence of abnormal chromosome 10, B chromosomes, and chromosomal knobs of various sizes in more than 300 accessions of maize, representing most of the ca. 40 races indigenous to Mexico, Guatemala, and Central America. In the present paper, their data were first transformed into frequencies and then subjected to principal component and cluster analyses. Variational patterns in chromosomal characteristics often were congruent with other lines of systematic evidence and suggested the existence of several karyotypic groups. The highland karyotypic groups (Guatemalan Big Grain and Mexican Pyramidal) were relatively well defined, but the lower elevation Tuxpeo, Reventador, and Dzit Bacal groups were more diffuse. The systematic relationships of several problematic races, some of which were native to intermediate elevations, were clarified. Individual bivariate correlations between the frequency of particular karyotypic features and altitude confirmed the association between these variables that was reported previously. /// McClintock, Kato Y., and Blumenschein repartaron la ocurrencia del cromosoma 10 anormal, las cromosomas B, y nudos cromosmicos con tamaos diversos en ms de 300 colecciones de maz, representando ms de ca. 40 razas indgenas de Mxico, Guatemala, y America Central. En el presente articulo, los datos de estos autores fueron transformados primero en frecuencias y despus sujetos a anlisis de componentes principales y a anlisis de agrupamiento. Los patrones de variacin en las caractersticas cromosmicas muchas veces fueron congruentes con otras lneas de evidencia sistemtica y sugirieron la existenca de varios grupos cariotpicos. Los grupos cariotpicos de las sierras (Guatemalan Big Grain y Mexican Pyramidal) estuvieron bien definidos relativamente, pero los grupos de las tierras bajas, como Tuxpeo, Reventador, y Dzit Bacal, fueron ms difusos. Las relaciones sistemticas de las diversas razas problemticas, algunas de esas adaptadas a alturas intermedias, fueron aclaradas. Las corelaciones bivariadas individuales entre la frecuencia de aspectos cariotpicos particulares y la altura han confirmado la asociacin entre estas variables que haba sido encontrada con anterioridad. 
4254643| In the course of ethnobotanical and ethnoarchaeological studies in the Ok Tedi region, Kiunga subprovince, Western Province, Papua New Guinea, Debra Donoghue collected several botanical specimens as vouchers for her studies into the prehistory of edible-nut pandans in the New Guinea Highlands and for David Hyndman's study of the use and names of pandans in the region. These specimens were submitted to me through Dr. Hyndman for identification, and one set of duplicates has been deposited in the Lae Herbarium (PNG) and another in the University of Malaya Herbarium (KLU). Some of the collections are of considerable botanical interest, representing hitherto little-known species. One collection represents a new edible-nut species. The following list contains the botanical identifications, collection data, and some taxonomic comments. All the collections were made in June 1981. The Ok Tedi region is located around 512S, 14117E. 
4255421|Plant samples collected in Bahrain and data reported in the literature indicate the flora of Bahrain to contain 52 species (49 genera; 20 families) of medicinal interest. Of these plant species 20 appear to be indigenous and are being used in traditional herbal remedies for numerous afflictions. Preparation of such remedies appears to be simple and includes boiling, infusions, extraction of milled dry or fresh leaves, flowers, seeds or whole plants. Direct consumption of plant parts, raw or cooked, is also practiced. None of these plants has been studied systematically to evaluate their medicinal potential.
4255210|Tests were conducted under greenhouse conditions to evaluate the ability of Eichhornia crassipes (Pontederiaceae) and Sphagnum quinquefarium (Sphagnaceae) to ameliorate acid mine water discharged from coal operations. In addition, the survivorship and growth rate of E. crassipes (water-hyacinth), cultured in toxic acid mine water, were determined. The results of both short- and long-term studies indicated that E. crassipes readily reduced levels of heavy metals in acid mine water while the plants exhibited few signs of toxicity. Patterns of reduction of pollutants, for both E. crassipes and S. quinquefarium indicated that treatment efficiency could be improved by the periodic harvesting of plants. It is suggested that the ease with which water-hyacinths can be introduced into wetlands and harvested cannot be economically duplicated with other plants currently in use in treating acid mine water.
4256289| The purpose of this paper is to document relationships between knowledge of plant use and indicators of modernization in Mexico. The model we are testing envisions increasing loss of plant use knowledge with increasing modernization indicated by loss of indigenous language and acquisition of nontraditional community services such as literacy and quality of housing. As predicted, we demonstrate that empirical knowledge about plant use is both more diverse and more evenly shared by people speaking an indigenous language-the Huastec-than by mestizo and Spanish-speaking indigenous populations in the Sierra de Manantlan. Our analyses also indicate that the adoption of modern community services by eight rural communities in the Sierra de Manantlan of western Mexico has had notable effects eroding traditional knowledge about useful plants in some but not all communities. From this we suggest that even though traditional knowledge about plants probably suffered a decline that accompanied loss of the indigenous language in Manantlan, traditional knowledge may be able to survive the modernization process today where such knowledge has an important role in subsistence. /// El propsito de este trabajo es documentar las relaciones entre el conocimiento del uso de las plantas y los indicadores de modernizacin en Mxico. Nuestro modelo comprueba que el conocimiento sobre el uso de las plantas se est perdiendo debido al aumento de la modernizacin, por la prdida del lenguaje ndigena y la adquisicin de servicios comunitarios no tradicionales tales como educacin y calidad de vivienda. Como se predijo, nosotros demonstramos que el conocimiento emprico sobre el uso de plantas es ms diverso y ms compartido en la poblacin indgena que an conserva su propio lenguaje-los Huastecos-que en la poblacin mestiza e indgena que habla espaol en la Sierra de Manantln. Nuestros anlisis tambin indican que la adopcin de servicios comunitarios modernos en ocho localidades rurales de la sierra de Manantln en el occidente de Mxico han tenido notables efectos erosionando el conocimiento tradicional sobre el uso de las plantas en algunas de estas comunidades. Por lo tanto, nosotros sugerimos que aunque el conocimiento tradicional sobre el uso de las plantas probablemente est sufriendo una disminucin la cual es acompaada con la prdida del lenguaje indgena en la Sierra de Manantln, el conocimiento tradicional puede ser capaz de sobrevivir al proceso de modernizacin actual donde tal conocimiento juega un importante papel en la subsistencia. 
4254614| A sealed, Plexiglas chamber with temperature and humidity control and illuminated externally with wide spectrum grow lights was used to evaluate the ability of golden pothos (Scindapsus aureus), nephthytis (Syngonium podophyllum), and spider plant (Chlorophytum elatum var. vittatum) to effect the removal of formaldehyde from contaminated air at initial concentrations of 15-37 ppm. Under the conditions of this study, the spider plant proved most efficient by sorbing and/or effecting the removal of up to 2.27 g formaldehyde per cm
4257117| We report the harvesting of an average of 4,000 kg of saffron milk caps (Lactarius deliciosus Fr.) per day during four to six weeks between mid-October and mid-November in a village of 200 inhabitants in northern Spain. Nearly every inhabitant picks saffron milk caps, for which they receive an average of 2 /kg. A family of four could make a profit of 5,600-8,400  in a season (average annual income per family in the area is 18,727 ). Pickers sell the harvested mushrooms either to a local middleman or directly to the buyer, who then takes the produce to the final point of sale, usually in Catalonia, where the demand for saffron milk caps is increasing yearly. This trade has occurred for 30 years, and began when saffron milk caps started to appear in the area after pine trees were introduced to replace the native oaks. This study provides evidence that the collection and marketing of wild edible fungi is a profitable task on a local and national scale. 
41001171|The candy barrel cactus (Echinocactus platyacanthus) is an endemic of the Chihuahuan Desert in Mxico that is used as an ornamental plant, for fodder, and for human consumption. The uncontrolled use of this species has resulted in its being put under special legal protection. Although now illegal to harvest, many candy barrel cacti continue being destroyed in situ by both gathering and livestock grazing. This study describes the uses of this species and the characteristics of its natural population in central Mexico. In order to estimate density, percentage of damaged cactus, and height of candy barrel cactus, censuses were carried in stands of 2,500 m. The anthropogenic disturbance in each site was estimated by an environmental disturbance index (DI). Results show that the state of Hidalgo has the best conserved population (mean density= 1,111 ind/ha, stratus height= 137 cm, and only 2% of the total cacti injured). Populations in Puebla represent an intermediate state of conservation, while Quertaro has populations with the lowest density (435 ind/ha), the shorter height (62 cm), the highest foraging (18%), and the greatest DI (71.30). We recommend that conservation strategies for this species be implemented immediately, and that areas be established that exclude livestock and prevent extraction by humans. La biznaga dulce (Echinocactus platyacanthus) es una biznaga endmica del desierto de Chihuahense en Mxico, la cual es usada como planta ornamental, forrajera y para el consumo humano. Debido a su uso la legislacin mexicana la ha designado como especie sujeta a proteccin especial. A pesar de que la extraccin es ilcita, muchas biznagas continan siendo destrozadas in situ por colectas y por forrajeo del ganado. Este estudio describe el uso de la especie, as como las caractersticas de su poblacin en el centro de Mxico. Con la finalidad de estimar la densidad, el porcentaje de plantas daadas y la altura del estrato de las biznagas, se realizaron censos en parcelas de 2,500 m. El disturbio antropognico fue estimado a travs de un ndice de disturbio (DI) en cada sitio. Los resultados muestran que el estado de Hidalgo tiene la poblacin mejor conservada (promedio de densidad= 1,111 ind/ha, una altura del estrato= 137 cm y con tan solo el 2% de las biznagas daadas). Las poblaciones en Puebla representan una estado intermedio de conservacin, mientras que las poblaciones de Quertaro presentan las densidades ms bajas (435 ind/ha), las menores alturas (62 cm), un forrajeo ms elevado (18%) y los mayores DI (71.30). Se recomienda la inmediata implementacin de estrategias de conservacin para la especie, como el establecimiento de reas de exclusin para evitar tanto la extraccin humana como el forrajeo.
4254642|Pandanus is well represented in Papua New Guinea with over 66 species growing from sea level to 3,000 m. The territory of the Wopkaimin, who live at the head-waters of the Ok Tedi in the Star and Hindenburg Mountains, is particularly rich in wild and domesticated species of Pandanus. Detailed analysis of the species in classification, ecology, subsistence, ritual and material culture not only establishes Pandanus as a locally significant plant resource but also contributes to the comparative understanding of ethnobiological systems. A close correspondence with botanical taxa of generic and specific rank and an absence of the most inclusive taxon term for plant are 2 cross-culturally important findings substantiated in Wopkaimin Pandanus taxonomy.
4257222|The extensive local and regional market for traditional, handcrafted twig and grass brooms in the Bushbuckridge municipality, South Africa, provides an important means of livelihood security for several hundred poor households in the face of increasing economic hardship. Participants in this trade were a vulnerable group of middle-aged to elderly women with poor levels of education and few assets. Over half headed their own households, and several came from households affected by AIDS. Entry into the broom trade was mainly a coping strategy in response to crisis, becoming long-term in the absence of alternatives. Average net annual incomes for producers and traders were modest at ZAR 2,000 and ZAR 1,000 respectively (ZAR = South African Rand), although some were earning considerably more. While unlikely to provide a way out of poverty, the trade was critical in allowing diversification and in providing a safety net, assisting poor households to overcome adversity, meet several basic needs, and educate their children.
4253085|The wild species of Avena that are indigenous in Israel are described with respect to geographical distribution in primary and secondary habitats, ecological preferences, and plant associations. The significance of these observations is discussed in relation to centres of origin, to the possibilities of gene exchange between species having sympatric distributions, and to schemes of germ plasm conservation.
40390479|Psilocybe, with 53 known hallucinogenic species in Mexico, is the most important and diverse group of sacred mushrooms used by Mexican indigenous cultures. Psilocybe caerulescens, known by the present-day Nahuatl Indians as teotlaquilnancatl, is hypothesized to be the ceremonially-used teonancatl mushroom cited by Sahagn in the 16th century, the true identity of which has remained obscure for centuries. Correcting a widely disseminated error derived from early published information on Mexican hallucinogenic mushrooms, emphasis is placed on the fact that Panaeolus species have never been used traditionally in Mexico. Reports of the use of species of Amanita, Clavaria, Conocybe, Cordyceps, Didyophora, Elaphomyces, Gomphus, Lycoperdon, Psathyrella, and Stropharia as sacred or narcotic mushrooms are discussed. A brief history of the discovery of hallucinogenic mushrooms in Mexico is presented, as well as notes on their taxonomy, distribution, and traditional use in Mexico. /// Psilocybe, con 53 especies alucingenas conocidas en Mxico, es el grupo ms importante y ms diverso de hongos sagrados usados por las culturas indgenas mexicanas. Se propone aqu que Psilocybe caerulescens, nombrado por los nahuatls de hoy da teotlaquilnancatl, es el hongo ceremonial teonancatl citado por Sahagn en el sigio XVI, cuya identidad verdadera permanece oscura desde hace siglos. A fin de corregir un error muy diseminado derivado de los primeras datos publicados sobre los hongos alucingenos mexicanos, se har hincapi en el hecho de que las especies Paneolus nunca han sido usadas tradicionalmente en Mxico. Se discutirn aqui informes sobre el uso de especies de Amanita, Clavaria, Conocybe, Cordyceps, Didyophora, Elaphomyces, Gomphus, Lycoperdon, Psathyrella y Stropharia corno hongos sagrados o narcticos, y se presentar tambin una breve historia del descubrimiento de hongos alucingenos en Mxico, corno tambin algunos datos sobre su taxonoma, su distribucin, y su uso tradicional en Mxico.
4256113| The fruits of "ovo" (Spondias purpurea L.) had the highest caloric density of the fruits compared, 74 kcal/100 g edible portion versus 39 to 58 kcal/100 g for peach, apricot, plum, mango, and cherry. This higher caloric density is due principally to ovo's higher concentration of total carbohydrates (19.1%); fructose, glucose, and sucrose together account for 65% of the soluble matter. Unlike the other fruits, ovo retains a fair amount of starch in the mesocarp. It is a moderate source of potassium (250 mg/100 g edible portion) and an excellent source of vitamin C (49 mg/100 g edible portion). Analysis of volatile flavor compounds showed 2-hexenal to be the main flavor compound present. Although there is a local market for ovo in Ecuador, large scale exportation of the fresh fruit currently lacks the necessary infrastructure to prolong shelf life, while the current production of ovo is insufficient for large scale industrial processing of the fruit. In the near future, the best alternative to maximize the income of the small holders producing ovo is for them to concentrate on producing "value added products" such as jams, ice creams, alcoholic beverages, and vinegars. /// Los frutos del "ovo" (Spondias purpurea L.) tienen el valor ms alto de densidad calrica entre los frutos comparados, 74 kcal/100 g de porcin comestible frente a valores de 39 a 58 kcal/g reportados para durazno (melocotn), albaricoque, ciruela, mango y cereza (guinda). Este valor se debe principalmente a la elevada concentracin de los hidratos de carbono (19.1%) en el ovo, en comparacin con las otras frutas mencionadas; la concentracin total de fructosa, glucosa y sacarosa representa el 65% de los slidos totales presentes. En relacin con las otras frutas, el ovo cuenta con cantidades relativamente altas de almidn en el mesocarpio. El ovo representa una fuente regular de potasio (250 mg/100 g de porcin comestible) y una excelente fuente de vitamina C (49 mg/100 g de porcin comestible). El anlisis de los compuestos aromticos voltiles identific a 2-hexenal como el componente principal del aroma de la fruta. En Ecuador existe un mercado potencial para la venta de los ovos, aunque en la actualidad, la exportacin a gran escala de los frutos frescos carece de la infraestructura necesaria para prolongar la estabilidad del fruto para su transporte y su venta posterior. La mejor alternativa para obtener mayores ingresos para los pequeos productores de ovo sera la venta de los productos que aportan un valor aadido: mermeladas, helados, bebidas alcohlicas y vinagres. Con la produccin actual de ovo en Ecuador, sera posible una explotacin a nivel de pequea industria de estos productos elaborados. 
40390465|A brief history of Japan's matsutake production, use, and management is presented, with emphasis on habitat improvement efforts and the land use tradition of iriai. Bidding systems for allotment of matsutake gathering rights are discussed. Three villages with different bidding systems are compared to see what effects the bidding systems have on village finances, matsutake production, and matsutake habitat enhancement. Contrary to expectations, habitat for matsutake was not improved when land owners were guaranteed the gathering and selling rights to matsutake growing on their own lands. Instead, habitat improvement was most successful and matsutake production was highest on community-owned lands in Oka Village, where the iriai tradition is strongest.
4255992| The use of underground plant organs and habitat selection by the Pum Indians of southwestern Venezuela is described. Detailed information is presented on 18 species in 10 families. The three most significant uses identified are food, medicine and/or ritual, and fish poison; the dry forest habitat contains the largest number of exploited species. The taxonomic and conservation relevance of ethnobotanical investigation in dryland macrohabitats in South America is addressed. /// Informacin detallada se presenta para 18 especies en 10 familias. Los tres usos mas importantes identificados son alimenticio, medicinal y/ ritual, y barbasco; el habitat de bosque seco contiene el mayor nmero de especies explotadas. La relevancia de investigaciones etnobotnicas para la taxonoma y la conservacin en macrohabitats secos de la masa continental suramericano es tratada. 
4256649|Nepeta cataria L., the catnip plant, is important in the pet industry for cats and as an herbal medicinal treatment for the fevers, diarrhea, insomnia, and lacking menstruation of humans. A natural mutation of N. cataria produced a novel morphology that warranted investigation to determine how the mutation affected the microscopic features, including catnip's ethnobotanical storehouse of glandular hairs. The morphology, anatomy, and physiology of this mutant are compared to that of the wild type of catnip to document the major differences. The secondary plant metabolites which facilitate catnip's ethnobotanical uses are stored in microscopic glandular hairs (trichomes). The trichomes on the mutant and wild type catnip leaves were not shown to differ (scanning and transmission electron microscopy). The feliobotany (use by cats) of N. cataria is discussed in relation to catnip trichomes.
4251952|The age-old turpentine industry is being modernized by a three-fold research attack involving advances in extraction techniques through chemical stimulation procedures; the selection, breeding and propagation of high-yielding turpentine pines; and engineering research on equipment used in woods operations.
4252966| Seed of Molucella laevis (L.) was gathered in the years 1963-66 and germinated soon after harvest and at various intervals subsequently. All seeds showed dormancy on gathering. There was a noticeable fluctuation in the percentage of seeds germinating during storage. Dormancy persisted throughout the years of the experiment. It appears that a number of factors are operative in the inhibition of germination of M. laevis seeds. One factor is an inhibitor which may be adsorbed by active charcoal or heavy loam, involving some process which requires fluctuating temperature. Rupture of the seed-coat also improved the germination of dormant seed, and a subsequent water rinse for 24 hrs. further increased the percent of germinating seed. Immersion of the seed for 48 hrs. in gibberellic acid (G.A.), 400 ppm, greatly improved germination, but it did not completely overcome dormancy. The maximum effect (93% germinating seed) was obtained when seed pre-treated with G.A. was germinated on top of active charcoal. The optimal germination temperature was found to be a daily alternating one of 16 hrs. at 15C and 8 hrs. at 30C with light supplied at the latter temperature. Treated seed was sown in the screen house and found to develop normal plants and seed. The dormancy-breaking effect of G.A. lasts for at least 180 days. The fluctuations in germination of seed pre-treated with gibberellin were similar to those of the untreated ones. The effect of dormancy-breaking factors differed with year of gathering and date of application. Thus, M. laevis seeds display much heterogeneity in their germination potential. 
4255372| Sechium edule (Jacq.) Sw. (Cucurbitaceae), a one-seeded squash most popular in Latin America, is cultivated worldwide in tropical and subtropical climates. In the past, a Mexican center of origin for chayote has been inferred mainly from linguistic data, but to use this argument correctly, relevant indigenous terms should be interpreted. Evidence from historical documents indicates pre-Columbian Aztecs used chayote in Mexico, but the lack of documentation from other countries does not constitute proof that the plant was absent. Chayote's center of genetic diversity suggests it was first domesticated in Mexico and Central America, but this variation could have been secondarily derived. However inconclusive these three lines of evidence are, they do converge on the same conclusion supported by new botanical evidence. Chayote's closest wild relative, S. compositum, from Mexico and Guatemala, and two potentially ancestral forms of chayote recently discovered outside cultivation in Mexico, demarcate Mexico and Guatemala as the most likely center of origin for this ancient crop. /// S. edule (Cucurbitaceae) es una calabaza de una semilla muy popular en Amrica Latina, cultivada en los trpicos y subtrpicos mundialmente. La informacin linguistica sugiere a Mxico como el centro de origen del chayote, pero para usar fuente de informacin se deben interpretar correctamente datos completos provenientes de fuentes indgenas apropiadas. El uso del chayote por los Aztecas precolombinos en Mxico se mantiene como otra fuente de evidencia an inconclusa por falta de documentacin histrica proveniente de otros paises, aunque o tampoco constituye prueba de su ausencia. El centro de diversidad gentica sugiere que el chayote fue originalmente domesticado en Mxico y Centro Amrica, pero esta variacin podria haber sido secundariamente derivada. Tan inconclusas como son estas tres fuentes de evidencia, convergen con resultados favorecidos por nueva evidencia botnica. La especie silvestre ms cercana al chayote, S. compositum, descubierta recientemente en Mxico, sugiere a Mxico y Guatemala como centros de origen para esta cosecha de antigua origen. 
4255291| New Zealand harbours a highly endemic flora of some 2000 species of vascular plants, but except for numerous ornamentals, only four indigenous plants are cultivated for the production of fibre (Phormium tenax), pharmaceutical properties (Solanum laciniatum and S. aviculare), and as a vegetable (Tetragonia tetragonioides). Another 15 native species are relatives of common commercial plants and are considered potential genetic resources. Of the six early Polynesian plant introductions to New Zealand, only the kumara (sweet potato) is still of some economic importance today. /// Neuseeland besitzt eine hochendemische Flora mit ber 2000 Gefsspflanzenarten, aber abgesehen von zahlreichen Zierpflanzen, werden nur vier einheimische Pflanzenarten fr Faserproduktion (Phormium tenax), pharmazeutische Eigenschaften (Solanum laciniatum und S. aviculare) und als Gemsepflanze (Tetragonia tetragonioides) kultiviert. Weitere 15 einheimische Arten sind mit gewhnlichen Nutzpflanzen verwandt und werden als potentielle genetische Ressourcen angesehen. Von den sechs in Frh-polynesischer Zeit nach Neuseeland eingefhrten Pflanzen ist heute nur noch die Kumara (Ssskartoffel) von einiger wirtschaftlicher Bedeutung. 
4256639|Conservationists of crop genetic resources have feared that in situ conservation was not viable for agriculture precisely because of changes resulting from introduction of new varieties of existing crops, new crops, and new farm practices. In addition, conservation within farming systems necessarily implies a constantly changing crop population resulting from the processes of crop evolution. Even though in situ conservation of crop genetic resources is now generally understood to be dynamic, there are few examples of how evolution takes place in farmers fields. This study describes several changes in maize landraces in four communities along an altitude transect in Central Mexico (1200 to 2400 masl). While true modern varieties have not been widely adopted in the study region, farmer management results in numerous changes in maize landrace populations. Five types of dynamic management were observed: (1) purposeful hybridization between traditional and modern maize types, (2) possible creation of a new maize landrace by directional selection of the progeny of hybridization between two traditional landraces, (3) displacement of a local landrace by the introduction of a modern variety and a non-local landrace, (4) maintenance of stable populations of a locally dominant landrace, and (5) market-driven selection for a minor variety. We concur that in situ conservation of crops must be conceived as an open process where the objective is not to maintain historic varieties or static genetic conditions. Rather, in situ conservation of crops is totally in the hands of the farmer, although interventions may be designed to influence farmers' management of agrobiodiversity.
4252137|Advances in technological development have produced an ever-increasing pressure for new and different raw materials to keep pace with changing industrial needs. Many new and useful properties of plants may be discovered through the modern chemistry and technology of utilization research. The U. S. Department of Agriculture's search for new industrial crops is a coordinated botanical and utilization research program.
4254926| Paric seeds were reportedly used as a snuff and enema ingredient by the Brazilian Mau Indians. We analyzed, by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, paric seeds from the first half of the 19th century. Despite their considerable age, the seeds yielded as much as 15 mg/g of the Anadenanthera alkaloid bufotenin, as identified by retention time on a capillary column and the mass spectrum. This analytical finding supports the view that the seeds originated from an Anadenanthera species. 
4255116| Pods from Prosopis glandulosa (honey mesquite) were harvested at seven different growth stages. Protein content (N  6.25) of the whole pod decreased with maturation with small differences occurring after stage 3. Seed contained about 82% of the total pod protein. Carbohydrate accumulated primarily in the pericarp, and ripe pods (stage 7) contained about 80% total carbohydrate. Fat content of the pod increased slightly with maturation while total ash and fiber (ADF) decreased. Small differences existed between stages 4 and 7 in the essential amino acid pattern of whole pods. The total sulfur-containing amino-acids were the most limiting in both growth stages; the pericarp protein had a relatively better amino-acid pattern than did the seed protein. Both green and ripe honey mesquite pods provide similar amounts of micro- and macro-minerals. /// Vainas de Prosopis glandulosa (mesquita) fueron cosechadas en siete diferentes estados de desarrollo. El contenido protico (N  6.25) de toda la vaina disminuy con la maduracin de la misma, las diferencias encontradas a patir del estado 3 fueron pequeas. El contenido protico de la semilla fu aproximadamente el 82% del contenido protico total de la vaina. Los carbohidratos principalmente se encontraron ubicados en el pericarpio, y el contenido total de carbohidratos de las vainas maduras (estado 7) fu aproximadamente del 80%. El contenido de lpidos de la vaina aument ligeramente con la maduracin, mientras que las cenizas totales y la fibra (ADF) disminuyeron con el mismo efecto. Pequeas diferencias en lo referente al patrn de los amino cidos escenciales fueron encontradas en las vainas entre los estados 4 y 7. Los amino cidos sulfricos totales fueron los ms limitantes en ambos estados de desarrollo; la proteina del pericarpio demostr tener un mejor patrn que la proteina de la semilla. Tanto las vainas de mesquita maduras como las inmaduras proporcionan cantidades similares de micro y macrominerales. 
4251876|The introduction of chemical weed-control, through the use of highly effective, selective and inexpensive hormone herbicides, permits profitable crop production in the tropics where old tools and methods, combined with an increase in labor costs, have created a serious problem of eradicating the luxuriant growth of tropical weeds.
4254326| Calotropis procera was evaluated as a potential source of hydrocarbons. Hexane Soxhlet extractions of oven-dried whole plants, stems, leaves and pods (6 mo of age) yielded 4.35, 3.83, 5.13, and 9.37% (w/w) hexane extract (HE), respectively. The HE from whole plants has a density of
4256197| We present ecological and ethnobotanical descriptions of two permanent 1-ha plots located in Amazonian forest near two Tacana communities situated north and west of the Madidi National Park in the Iturralde Province, Department of La Paz of northwestern Bolivia. We interviewed 13 Tacana men and women to identify and enumerate uses of all of the trees, palms, and lianas  10 cm dbh in these plots. Of the 185 species found in both plots, 115 species are used by the Tacana: 59 species for construction, 9 as sources of fiber, 33 for technology and crafts, 66 as firewood, 32 for food or water, 40 for medicine, 8 for hunting or fishing, 9 for commercial purposes, and 11 for miscellaneous uses. Sixty-four percent of useful species had multiple uses. This utilization of the forest corresponds with that of other Amazonian indigenous groups and shows a high reliance on the forest for vegetative materials, especially medicine, technology and crafts, and construction. /// Presentamos descripciones ecolgicas y etnobotnicas de dos parcelas permanentes de 1-hectrea localizadas en bosque amaznico cerca de dos comunidades de Tacana situadas al norte y al oeste del Parque Nacional Madidi en la Provincia Iturralde, Departamento de La Paz del noroeste de Bolivia. Entrevistamos a 13 hombres y mujeres Tacana para identificar los nombres y usos de los rboles, palmeras y bejucos  10 cm dap en las parcelas. De las 185 especies que encontramos en ambas parcelas, 115 especies son utilizadas por los Tacana: 59 especies se utilizan para construccin, 9 como fuente de fibra, 33 para tecnologa y manualidades, 66 para lea, 32 para comida o agua, 40 para medicinas, 8 para caza o pesca, 9 para usos comerciales, y 11 para usos miscelneos. El 64% de las especies de provecho tienen usos mltiples. Los datos relevantes al modo de utilizacin del monte corresponden a otros grupos amaznicos tnicos, y demuestran una alta dependencia de los recursos naturales vegetales del bosque, especialmente en cuanto a la medicina, tecnologa, artesana, y construccin. 
4254245|Osage orange, a tree native to Texas, Oklahoma, and Arkansas, was planted widely in the United States as a living fence from 1850-1875. It has naturalized over much of its planted range and is an early successional species. Economically the tree has had a wide number of uses including for bows, yellow dye, and building materials. It is used for fence posts and is a potential source for a proteolytic enzyme. Its taxonomy, anatomy, morphology, chemical constitutents, medicinal uses, and toxicity are discussed in this paper and related to its economic importance.
4255392| Ferocactus histrix and Echinocactus platyacanthus are two common barrel cacti of the semiarid highlands of Central Mexico. In pre-Columbian times, these plants were sacred, used for sacrifices, food and medicine. Today, these cacti are used in the candy industry, as medicine, as a source of food and water for goats and as ornamental plants. The floral buds and fruits of F. histrix are consumed by the local people; the latter are sold in local markets. Until recently, the apical indument of E. platyacanthus was used for padding and weaving. The importance of these species increases with the aridity of the land and its inadequacy for agriculture. Habitat protection and artificial propagation are needed to avoid the extinction of these species. /// Las biznagas Ferocactus histrix y Echinocactus platyacanthus son comunes en las regiones semiridas del Altiplano Mexicano. En tiempos precolombianos fueron cactos sagrados que se usaban para sacrificios, como alimento y medicina. Actualmente, estas plantas se emplean con fines medicinales y ornamentales, para la industria confitera y como fuente de alimento y agua para cabras. Los botones florales y frutos de F. histrix son consumidos localmente; estos ltimos se comercializan. Hasta hace poco, el indumento apical de E. platyacanthus se usaba como relleno y se hilaba. La importancia de estas especies se incrementa en condiciones de mayor aridez y con lo inadecuado de la tierra para la agricultura y la ganadera. Es necesario proteger el hbitat y emplear tcnicas de propagacin artificial para evitar la extincin de estas especies. 
4253208|Preliminary field evaluations for 162 species are reported. This work represents a portion of a team-oriented effort to develop new crops for American agriculture. These species are potential new oilseed sources of epoxy, crepenynic, erucic, and other fatty acids, and sources of seed gum, steroids, and pulp. Euphorbia lagascae and Cephalaria setosa show the most promise for crop development as epoxy acid sources, but both require substantial improvement through breeding. Crepis alpina, a small-seeded species with excellent seed retention, is the best prospect for providing an oil rich in crepenynic acid. A selection and breeding program is under way. None of the species tested as erucic acid sources equalled the crop potential of crambe and selected Brassicas. Briza spicata, a small, moderately productive grass, is the richest known source of glycolipids. B. spicata has been grown successfully as a winter annual at several locations. Earlier maturity and better seedling vigor is needed in Satureja hortensis, a source of oil similar to linseed oil. Xeranthemum annuum, an attractive, winter annual and everlasting, is very good agronomically, but the use of the oil with its mixture of several fatty acids is not economically favorable. Solanum khasianum shows agronomic promise as a source of the steroid, solasodine. Cassia occidentalis, C. bonariensis, Crotalaria leioloba, and C. stipularia are productive potential seed gum sources. These species, especially Cassia occidentalis, seem to be sufficiently good agronomically to justify intensive breeding. Of the various sources of pulp, emphasis is on kenaf because high-yielding, well-adapted varieties are available. Crotalaria juncea merits breeding effort, and other species show sufficient promise for further evaluation.
4254610|Silverleaf nightshade (Solanum elaeagnifolium) is a perennial weed that has become increasingly troublesome over the past several decades. Extensive use of soil-applied herbicides, accompanied by a reduction in annual weed competition and reduced tillage, have contributed to its spread and establishment as a serious pest. Crop plants are affected directly via competition and allelopathy or indirectly as the nightshade plants serve as hosts for destructive phytophagous insects or fungal pathogens. Probably native to the southwestern United States and northern Mexico, S. elaeagnifolium is now found in many semiarid regions of the world. Plants were used by the Pima, Kiowa and Navajo Indians in the preparation of food and in the tanning of leather. Containing the toxic glycoalkaloids solanine and solasonine, plants can cause livestock poisonings. The fruits, however, are a source of solasodine, which is used in the commercial manufacture of steroidal hormones.
4254904|The Lahu, the third largest of the 6 main tribes in northern Thailand, migrated into Thailand from Burma within the past 100 yr. Most still live in the hills above 1,200 m and practice swidden agriculture. Health is a main theme of the Lahu culture and they treat illness and injuries in a variety of ways. Traditional medicines derived from plants are usually employed first, although modern medical treatment is becoming more widespread. Because of this, it appears that they may be losing their knowledge of medicinal plants. Appendix 1 lists 68 different species and the medical use or uses of them by the Lahu. Appendix 2 lists 21 species not previously reported as having therapeutic value. Voucher specimens are deposited in ECON, WCW, JEPS.
4252021|Although not the lightest known wood, balsa is the lightest commercial timber, and as such has found utilization in the manufacture of airplanes, life preservers, insulating equipment and packing crates. During recent war years Ecuador supplied 95 percent of world production but must now meet competition from wild and cultivated sources in Central America and Ceylon.
4255989| This study investigated the relationship between the abundance and size of D. polyacanthos and measures of forest canopy structure. Vrzea and terra firme forest were selected for study at the mouth of the Amazon estuary, Par, Brazil. The forest canopy characteristics investigated included individual tree height and height to base of the live portion of the crown, forest canopy depth (the distance from the lowest foliage in the understory to the top of the canopy including all free space between top and bottom), forest canopy thickness (the portion of the forest canopy depth occupied only by foliage) and forest canopy density (the sum of lengths of each of the individual crowns that make up forest canopy depth) (see Fig. 2b). The attributes of D. polyacanthos measured included leaf number, stem height and percent coverage within the stands. Results from this study suggest that D. polyacanthos can be encouraged to grow through selective cutting of canopy trees and promotion of regenerating forest stands on terra firme fallow. The protocol used to relate D. polyacanthos abundance and size to kind of forest canopy structure can be used for evaluation of other climbing palms. /// Botnica Econmica. Esses estudo investigou a relao entre a abundncia e tamanho de D. polyacanthos e medidas da estrutura do dossel da floresta. Florestas de vrzea e terra firme foram selecionadas para o estudo no estuario Amaznico, Par, Brasil. As caractersticas do dossel florestal investigadas incluram a altura das rvores e a medida da altura entre o topo da copa e a base da copa viva profundidade do dossel florestal (a distncia entre a folhagem mais baixa no sub-bosque e o topo do dossel incluindo todo espao livre entre o topo e a base da folhagem), espessura do dossel (a poro da profundidade do dossel da floresta ocupado somente por folhagem) e densidade do dossel da floresta (a soma do comprimento de todas as copas que compe a profundidade do dossel) (veja Fig. 2b). Os atributos de D. polyacanthos meridos incluram nmero de folhas, altura do tronco e percentual de cobertura dentro do povoamento. Os resultados desse estudo sugerem que D. polyacantos pode ser estimulado a crescer atravs do corte seletivo de rvores que ocupam o dossel da floresta e da promoo da regenerao florestal em reas de pousio (resultante de uso agrcola) na terra firme. O protocolo usado para relacionar a abundncia e tamanho de D. polyacanthos ao tipo de dossel florestal pode ser usado para avalio de outras palmeiras trepadoras. 
4252235|The effect of gibberellin on the hemp plant is described. Gibberellin-treated plants show greater number of fibers as compared to controls. The individual fibers are larger in diameter, more lignified and up to ten times as long as the fibers from the untreated plants. Economic potential of application of gibberellin to hemp and possibly other fiber-yielding crops is suggested.
4251914|At least $20,000,000 worth of cork products are annually manufactured in the United States, and efforts are being made by annual plantings of cork oaks in 25 States eventually to relieve American industry of its present total dependence upon foreign sources to supply the cork for this production.
4255946| The purpose of this study was to analyze the utilization of tree species within and around the borders of the Maya Biosphere Reserve in Guatemala and to compare two sampling methodologies for the acquisition of such data. Residents in the communities of Caoba (border of reserve) and Uaxactn (within reserve) demonstrated significantly different utilization of tree species. Differences were due to the unique ecological and socio-economic conditions in each of the towns. Residents of both communities relied most heavily on Swietenia macrophylla, Manilkara achras, Cedrela odorata, Pouteria mammosa and Caesalpinia spp. Residents of Caoba considered 39% of all useful tree species to be marketable compared with only 18% in Uaxactn. Overall, more than 80 tree species were identified as useful in each of the communities. Changes in forest composition along with dynamic economic conditions were found to be altering the commercial utilization of tree species throughout the region. Some suggestions are offered for community development projects. 
4254511|Investigations and findings of a floristic study at Coquille, an archaeological site in Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, are reported. In contrast with the surrounding marsh and swamp, there is a distinctive diversity in the vegetation at the site. Most of the plants are native species that have been reported as ethnobotanically important to the southeastern Indians. It is postulated that if the plant community present at Coquille today were present in prehistory, this area was rich in botanical species potentially useful for foods, medicines, and other material resources.
4255129| Papyrus (Cyperus papyrus, Cyperaceae) covers large areas in tropical African wetlands. Analysis of its nutritive value has revealed that crude protein is higher in umbels than culms. Ruminal dry matter digestibility of papyrus is, however, higher in culms than umbels. Both the crude protein and ruminal dry matter digestibility decrease with increasing age of the plant. Values for crude protein and ruminal dry matter digestibility are similar to those reported for the range grasses that constitute the greatest percentage of forage in East Africa. In general, papyrus has some grazing potential and could be used as fodder especially in the dry season when other forage is scarce and of low nutritive value. /// Der Futterwert von Papyrus (Cyperus papyrus), einem tropischen Macrophyten Papyrus (Cyperus papyrus) bedeckt im tropischen Afrika grosse Feuchtgebiete. Futterwertanalysen ergaben, dass der Gehalt an Rohprotein in den Dolden hher als in den Sprossen ist. Der verdaubare Anteil der Trockenmasse von Papyrus ist fr Wiederkuer jedoch in den Sprossen hher als in den Dolden. Die Verdaubarkeit von Rohprotein wie auch der Trockenmasse sinkt mit steigendem Alter der Pflanze. Die Werte fr Rohprotein und verdaubare Trockenmasse sind hnlich denen, die fr die Hauptfuttergrser semiarider Gebiete in Ostafrika angegeben werden. Insgesamt besitzt Papyrus einiges Potential fr Beweidung und knnte, besonders in der Trockezeit, wenn anderes Futter rar und von geringem Nhrwert ist, verfttert werden. 
4256915|Phylogenetic relationships were analyzed in nine species belonging to subgenus Ceratotropis (genus Vigna, Papilionaceae), including cultivated, weedy and wild races of azuki bean (V. angularis), and five outgroup species by sequences in the trnL intron and trnL-F intergenic spacer of cpDNA, in order to perform molecular identification of archaeological beans in Japan. The modern species of subgenus Ceratotropis had similar sequences in the two non-coding regions ranging from 952 bp to 1027 bp with 36 substitutions and 6 indels. The strict consensus phylogenetic tree confirmed the monophyly of the Ceratotropis and two subordinate groups: the azuki bean group and the mung bean group. The azuki bean group was comprised of three races of azuki bean, rice bean (V. umbellata), V. nakashimae and V. minima var. minor. The mung bean group was comprised of mung bean (V. radiata), blackgram (V. mungo), moth bean (V. aconitifolia), V. trilobata and V. reflexo-pilosa. All accessions of V. angularis, including cultivated, weedy and wild azuki beans, shared the same sequence with a specific deletion of 51 bp. Since this deletion was confirmed in the archaeological beans excavated from the ruins during the Yayoi (ca. 2300 yr B.P.), Satsumon (650 yr B.P.), and Edo (155 yr B.P.) periods of Japan, it is suggested here that the azuki bean has long been utilized in Japan. /// [Abstract in Chinese]
4256059| The Italian white truffle (Tuber magnatum Pico) forms mycorrhizal relationships, with the roots of, for example, poplars, willows, oaks, aspen, alder and hazelnut in Northern Italy and in small areas of Southern France, Switzerland and Yugoslavia. Its fruiting bodies, which are harvested in autumn and early winter, have a strong aroma and taste and are much sought-after by chefs and gourmets. Because they do not preserve well, good quality Italian white truffle is unavailable for much of the year. The vegetation, climate and soils where T. magnatum grows in Italy are described and compared with those found in similar areas in New Zealand. Market information and methods for cultivating T. magnatum are also presented. /// La trufa blanca italiana (Tuber magnatum Pico) forma una relacin micorrzica con las races de, entre otros, lamos, sauces, robles, [aspen and poplar are the same genus, Populus, which is lamo in Spanish, or more rarely tembln, so possibly not worth writing down separately], alisos y avellanas en el norte de Italia y pequeas reas del sur de Francia, Suiza y Yugoslavia. Sus cuerpos fructferos, cosechados en otoo y principios del invierno, tienen fuerte aroma y sabor y son muy buscados por chefs y gourmets. Debido a que no se conserva bien, la trufa blanca italiana de buena calidad no se consigue durante gran parte del ao. Se describen la vegetacin, clima y suelos donde crece T. magnatum en Italia y se comparan con aquellos de reas similares de Nueva Zelandia. Tambin se presenta informacin de mercado y mtodos para cultivar T. magnatum. 
4252087|The great importance of antibiotics in combating diseases of man has, along with economic factors, deterred investigators from exploring the possibility of using those agents against plant diseases, but some purely experimental evidence in that direction has been accumulated.
4254273| The evaluation of native and introduced legumes with starch-storing roots or tubers was undertaken to test whether plants traditionally collected as food by Australian aborigines might have a role in the development of crops for liquid fuel production (by fermentation of carbohydrates to ethanol). Tuberous-rooted legumes from overseas were planted at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, division of Tropical Crops and Pastures, Kimberley Research Station, Western Australia (1539S, 12842E) in December 1974, March 1978 and February 1979. Roots from the latter plantings were harvested in June 1979. Native plant material was collected during visits to aboriginal communities in the Kimberleys between April and June 1979. The native and introduced specimens were analysed for fermentable carbohydrate and protein content. Several native plants appear more promising than introduced species as liquid fuel crops. 
4287982|The Eastern Galla of Ethiopia have developed advanced agricultural techniques of rotation, terracing and irrigation with Sorghum vulgare (durra) as the major field crop. Crops of secondary importance in the durra complex are corn (Zea mays), barley, peanuts, sesame, field-peas, beans, and fenugreek.
4255466| After a search of the literature including computerized data bases on the economic potential of various plants, experiments designed to improve the extraction of silica from the horsetail Equisetum arvense L. were carried out. Improved yields of colloidal silica were obtained by sonication in a shorter time than by conventional extraction with boiling distilled water. However we conclude that commercial exploitation of silica (colloidal or solid) from Equisetum arvense is not feasible at present because: growing conditions of this plant species are not yet well defined; the disappearance of the plant during the winter months limits its period of exploitation; the silica content of the plant can vary over a six-fold range depending on weather and soil conditions, and so its economic potential is unpredictable. / A la suite d'une recherche par bibliographie informatise, concernant le potentiel conomique de diverses plantes, des manipulations visant  amliorer l'extraction de la silice de la prle Equisetum arvense ont t menes. L'usage des ultrasons a permis d'obtenir plus rapidement de meilleurs rendements en silice collodale que l'extraction conventionnelle par l'eau bouillante. Cependant nous avons conclu que la valorisation commerciale de la silice (collodale ou solide) d'Equisetum arvense n'est, pour l'instant, pas ralisable, car: les conditions culturales de cette plante sont peu connues; la disparition de la plante durant les mois d'hiver limite son exploitation; le contenu en silice peut varier d'un facteur 6 suivant la nature du sol et les conditions climatiques. 
4256875|The edible wild plants are greatly valued throughout the Himalayan region and serve as an important source of food for indigenous communities. This paper describes the botanical richness, elevational distribution and dietary use of the edible wild plant resources from the Sikkim Himalaya (Eastern Himalaya), many with promising potential. A total of 190 wild plant species have been screened from the Sikkim Himalaya, this derived from 143 genera and 78 families and accounting for nearly 15% of total edible wild plants resources of India. Of the total, 65% were edible for their fruits, 22% for leaves/shoots, 7% for flowers and 3% for roots/rhizomes. Nearly 91 wild edible species were recorded from low-hills, 70 from mid-hills and 28 species from high-hill areas. Within Sikkim state, the North and East districts represent maximum diversity of edible wild plants due to the wilderness and inaccessibility to most of the habitats. An average rural family annually consumes nearly 8 types of edible wild plants, and a few species provide over five meals in a season. Selected plants also form a source of earning to a few families that sell them in local markets. It is suggested that the high diversity of edible plants needs to be conserved for future use. Some species may be grown in traditional agroforestry systems and on marginal lands of otherwise low agricultural value. Such measures may help protect wild plant resources in their natural habitats.
4251920|Arabic, tragacanth, ghatti, karaya and other commercially valuable gums are exudations of a variety of trees and shrubs in many parts of the world. Their hydrophilic and other properties render them useful in the adhesives, beverage, cosmetic, paint, papermaking, pharmaceutical, textile and other industries.
4255367| Total seed protein variability in a sample of 163 entries of year-bean (Phaseolus polyanthus), including wild, feral and cultivated forms of the whole range of distribution in Latin America was studied using 1-dimensional SDS/PAGE and 2-dimensional IEF-SDS/PAGE. Ten different patterns were observed in this crop. Eight of these are found in the Mesoamerican materials, the other two of those in the northern Andes. The highest diversity is found in the wild ancestral forms present in central Guatemala with six patterns. The 'b' pattern predominant in all Mesoamerican cultivated materials is also present at low frequency in Colombia. The 'k' pattern, predominant in the northern Andes, is present in Costa Rica. These results together with information on indigenous names for the crop suggest that there is a single gene pool domesticated from a wild ancestor still present in Guatemala, and distributed afterwards to the northern Andes, but with a clinal genetic drift from Mesoamerica to the Andean region. /// La variabilidad de la protena total en una muestra de 163 materiales de frijoles de Phaseolus polyanthus que incluye formas silvestres, escapadas y cultivadas de toda su distribucin en Amrica latina ha sido estudiada usando la tcnica de electroforesis en una dimensin y en dos dimensiones despus del punto isoelctrico. Se encontraron diez patrones diferentes en este cultivo, ocho en Mesoamrica y otros dos en los Andes del Norte. La mayor diversidad (seis patrones) se encontr en las formas silvestres ancestrales presentes en el centro de Guatemala. El patrn 'b' dominante en todos los materiales cultivados mesoamericanos es tambin presente con baja frecuencia en Colombia. Al revs, el patrn 'k' dominante en los Andes del Norte ya lo es en Costa Rica. Estos resultados junto con la informacin linguistica tradicional sugieren que se trata de un solo acervo gentico. Tambin indican que se domestic este cultivo a partir de una forma silvestre ancestral an presente en Guatemala. Sugieren en fin una distribucin posterior hacia los Andes del Norte donde una deriva gentica empieza de manifestarse con relacin a Mesoamrica. 
4256357| Tubers of Cyperus esculentus were an important food in ancient Egypt. In Spain the tubers are used to make a beverage named horchata, and are also consumed as fresh after soaking. In other countries tubers are used in sweetmeats or uncooked as a side dish. New products obtained can enhance the interest in this crop: as a source of dietary fiber in food technology; as a high quality cooking/salad oil or as biodiesel fuel; as caramel to add body, flavor or color to other products; as a source of starch; as an antioxidant-containing food, etc. The results of a twenty-year research program on nutrition, fertilization, lodging control, planting date, soil texture and use of herbicides are shown. Three cultivars ('Ametlla Bonrepos', 'Gegant Africana', and 'Llargueta Alboraia') are selected and characterized using horticultural and morphological traits, the chemical composition of tubers and horchatas, and the RAPD technique. /// Los tubrculos de Cyperus esculentus, que fueron un importante alimento en el antiguo Egipto, se utilizan, en Espaa, para obtener una bebida refrescante denominada horchata y para consumo en fresco. En otros pases se consume como entrems y en confitera. Su inters podra incrementarse con la obtencin de nuevos productos de aplicacin como materia prima en tecnologa de alimentos (fibra; aceite de gran calidad, sustitutivo del aceite de oliva; aditivos de sabor, color y cuerpo; almidn; capacidad antioxidante), como combustible biodiesel, etc. Se presentan los resultados obtenidos en veinte aos de investigacin en aspectos agronmicos (nutricin, fertilizacin, control del encamado, fecha de plantacin, textura del suelo y utilizacin de herbicidas) y de seleccin y caracterizacin varietal (caractersticas morfolgicas y agronmicas, composicin qumica de tubrculos y horchatas, utilizacin de la tcnica RAPD), que han permitido la seleccin y caracterizacin de tres cultivares: 'Ametlla Bonrepos', 'Gegant Africana', y 'Llargueta Alboraia'. 
4255150|Evidence for the presence of maize (Zea mays, Poaceae) in India prior to traditional European contact is found in stone sculptures of maize ears in the 12th and 13th century (and earlier) Hoysala temples in southern India near Mysore. These "ears" present the morphology of maize in such intricate and specifically variable representations that it would have been impossible for sculptors to have imagined the variability consistently and realistically without large numbers of actual maize ears as models. No other natural model could supply this variability. We should search for other crops and cultural artifacts that would have diffused with maize across the oceans before 1492 A.D.
4256814|Wild edible plants form an important constituent of traditional diets in the Himalaya. In the Sikkim Himalaya a total of 190 species have been screened as edible species out of which nearly 47 species come to the market. The present paper deals with nutritive values of 27 most commonly consumed wild edible plants in the Sikkim Himalaya. Of 27 plant species that were analyzed for their nutritive values, 22 were edible for their fruits and five for leaves/shoots. Among different plant parts, generally higher nutrient concentration was recorded for leaves, followed by new shoots and fruits. For different species the crude fiber content ranged between 2.15-39.90%, and the total soluble salts between 4.66-21.00%, and the vitamin C content from 6-286 mg/100 g. The fat content was determined high in the fruits of Castanopsis hystrix, Machilus edulis, and Cinnamomum species, while the protein content was highest in Hippophae rhamnoides, Cucumis melo, and Eleagnus latifolia. The total carbohydrate content ranged from 32-88% in the fruits of various wild edibles, the reducing sugar from 1.25-12.42%, total sugar from 2.10-25.09%, the lignin content varied from 9.05-39.51%, the hemicellulose between 25.63-55.71% and cellulose content varied from 9.57-33.19% in different species. Among the various macronutrients estimated in the plant samples of different wild edible species, nitrogen was present in highest quantity, followed by potassium, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, and sodium. Micronutrients, such as iron, zinc, magnesium, and copper contents were analyzed in different plant parts of various wild edible species. The iron content was higher in leaves and new shoots. The nutritive values of certain wild edible species determined in this study are comparable with various commercial fruits. It is suggested that a few wild edible species need to be grown for commercial cultivation and adopted in the traditional agroforestry systems, which will lead to reduced pressure on them in natural forest stands as well as producing economic benefits for poor farmers.
4251912|Extraction of alginates from brown algae and utilization of them in the manufacture of thread in Great Britain during World War II led to a survey of seaweed resources along the coast of Great Britain which revealed a supply of over 2,000,000 tons of bottomweed and rockweed in those waters, especially around Scotland.
4256770|Two types of selection operate (and complement each other) in plants under domestication: (a) conscious or intentional selection applied by the growers for traits of interest to them; (b) unconscious or automatic selection brought about by the fact that the plants concerned were taken from their original wild habitats and placed in new (and usually very different) human-made or human-managed environments. The shift in the ecology led automatically to drastic changes in selection pressures. Numerous adaptations vital for survival in the wild environments lost their fitness under the new sets of conditions. New traits were automatically selected, resulting in the build-up of characteristic "domestication syndromes," each fitting the specific agricultural environment provided by the farmer. The present paper assesses the evolutionary consequences of the introduction of the wild plants into several sets of contrasting farming situations. These include: (a) the type of maintenance applied, whether seed planting or vegetative propagation; (b) the plant organs for which the crop has been grown, whether they are reproductive parts or vegetative parts; (c) the impact of the system of tilling, sowing, and reaping on the evolution of grain crops; (d) the impact of the horticultural environment on fruit crops.
4254044|Leguminous tree orchards are proposed as an agricultural system requiring minimal input of fossil fuel, machinery, and capital. Legume orchards fix nitrogen, require neither tillage nor irrigation, and, potentially, provide large yields of nutritious pods. Further, our analytical data show seed protein contents ranging from 16 to 69 percent, with one species having an amino acid profile superior to that of casein.
4255504| Specimens in the germplasm collection at the U.S. Vegetable Laboratory, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) in Charleston, SC, were studied to examine phylogenetic relations of the tetraploid accessions in Ipomoea section Batatas. This collection contains tetraploids from a wide geographic range and most were tentatively identified by the collector as I. trifida. This study shows that corolla and sepal traits may be used to distinguish the tetraploids from known specimens of I. trifida (diploid) and I. batatas (hexaploid). All but one tetraploid accession examined (CH67.50) had corolla tubes and sepals shaped like I. batatas and more closely resembled that species than I. trifida. Use of corolla tube diameter allowed the hexaploid I. batatas and tetraploid accessions to be distinguished from I. trifida because the corolla tubes were wider immediately above the calyx. Differences in sepal shape were quantified using the angle at the sepal apex. This angle was consistently obtuse in the I. batatas hexaploids and the tetraploids, but was acute in the I. trifida accessions. Due to similarities in sepal and corolla traits, these tetraploids should be re-identified as tetraploid I. batatas, a cytological race of the hexaploid I. batatas (the sweetpotato). / El banco de germoplasma del Laboratorio Vegetal U.S. del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos en Charleston, S.C., en su coleccin posee especmenes de entradas tetraploides de Ipomoea batatas (identificadas como Ipomoea trifida) con amplia distribucin geogrfica. El objetivo principal del presente estudio fue verificar la relacin filogentica de las entradas tetraploides con especmenes de I. batatas (hexaploide) e Ipomoea trifida (diploide). Las caractersticas relacionadas a la forma y tamao del corola y los sepalos fueron considerados para diferenciar tetraploides, diploides, y hexaploides. La forma del sepalo y tubo de la corola de la mayora de tetraploides, excepto la entrada CH67.50, poseen estrecha similitud con la batata cultivada diferenciandos de Ipomoea trifida. Para cuantificar las diferencias en el tamao de corola fue considerado el dimetro del tubo. As, la batata cultivada y las entradas tetraploides se diferencian de I. trifida debido al ensanchamiento del tubo de la corola sobre el cliz. Asmismo, para cuantificar las diferencias en la forma de sepalo fue considerado la forma del pice. La batata cultivada y las entradas tetraploides poseen forma considerablemente obtusa mientras que I. trifida posee forma aguda. Debido a las similitudes entre tetraploides y hexaploides en la forma y tamao de sepalo y corola, los tetraploides seran re-identificados como I. batatas tetraploide, considerandos como una raza citolgica de la batata cultivada. 
40390459|Separated by national borders and the International Dateline, the native communities inhabiting the Bering Strait regions of Russia and Alaska share a common natural environment, myriad cultural similarities, and long-standing social ties. Their subsistence diets also are similar, except that wild mushrooms are revered on the Russian side of the Bering Strait (Chukotka) and are feared and avoided in Alaska. This paper explores the origins of this dietary difference and probes the social dimensions of food and cuisine with respect to the culinary utilization of wild mushrooms.
4255215|A total of 171 plant species used by the Nishis, the Hill Miris, the Sulungs, and the Apatanis of Lower Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh in northeastern India; 12 animal species used by the Nishis were identified. Of the total plant species recorded 38% of the total were leafy vegetables and 28% were edible fruits. Others were used for food, liquor, medicine, household goods, traditional dresses, dyes, tattoos, fish and animal poisons, or for salt extraction. The Sulungs use starch obtained from the pith of Metroxylon sagu as a staple food. The extensive use of wild plants and animals suggests that the tribes of northeastern India rely heavily on forest resources. The importance of conserving these in the light of rapid conversion of rainforests is emphasized.
4255189| Seeds of eight clones of ulluco (Ullucus tuberosus) were collected in 1985-1986 in cultivation experiments in the Botanical Garden of the University of Turku, and their germination was studied in a greenhouse and a growth chamber. The number of tested seeds was 1177. The disinfected seeds were tested in 10 different treatments with different illumination rhythms, temperatures, duration of treatments, and media. Stratification, removal of the calyx and seed coat, and mechanical rupture of the seed coat were used in the treatments. The mean germination percentage was 2.04%, but only five seedlings were obtained. Germinated seeds were obtained in three of the treatments; they belonged to clones from Puno, Cusco, and Juliaca. The best result was obtained by treating the seeds with 0.1% gibberellic acid, but the best seedlings, from the Puno clone, developed in pure water. The shortest germination time was 60 d and the longest 650 d, even within the same clone. The best illumination for germination was 8 h light and 16 h dark, in temperatures of +20C (day) and +6C (night). The seeds were found to germinate even after a storage period of 18 mo. The seedlings varied in habit, in size of seedling leaves, and in colour of stem, which could be light green or reddish. /// Las semillas de ulluco de ocho clones (Ullucus tuberosus), fueron coleccionadas entre 1985-1986 en cultivos experimentales en el Jardn Botnico de la Universidad de Turku, y su germinacin fue estudiada en invernadero y en cmara de cultivo. Se hicieron 1177 pruebas de las semillas. Las semillas desinfectadas se analizaron en 10 procedimientos diferentes, con variados ritmos de iluminacin, temperatura, duracin del tratamiento y base de germinacin. En los tratamientos se utiliz la estratificacin, la remocin del cliz y de la cscara de la semilla, as como la ruptura mecnica de la cscara de la semilla. El procentaje promedio de germinacin fue de 2.04%, pero solamente se obtuvieron 5 retoos. Las semillas germinaron en tres de los mtodos usados; estas semillas correspondan a clones de Puno, Cusco y Juliaca. Los mejores resultados se lograron con las semillas tratadas al 0.1% de cido gibberellic, sin embargo, los mejores retoos, provenientes del clon de Puno, se desarrollaron en agua pura. Le germinacin ms corta se consigui en 60 das y la ms larga en 650 das, an tratndose del mismo clon. Para la germinacin, la mejor iluminacin fue de 8 horas de luz y 16 horas de oscuridad, con temperaturas de +20 grados C (en el da), y de +6 grados C (en la noche). Las semillas germinaron incluso despus de un perodo de almacenamiento de 18 meses. Los retoos variaron en su apariencia, por el tamao de las hojas y por el color del tallo que en algunos casos present un color verde plido y en otros un color rojizo. 
4254132|Agathis, kauri pine, is a genus of moderately fast-growing conifers, mainly of the tropical Far East, which produce a valuable timber and the resin Manila copal. Current knowledge and research in progress on its ecology, timber, resin, cultivation, seed storage, vegetative propagation, future potential and conservation are summarized.
40390490|The Khoisan people of the Kalahari Desert have used truffles for centuries. The extreme conditions in which desert truffles grow means that they fruit only sporadically when adequate and properly distributed rainfall occurs, and then only where suitable soil and mycorrhizal hosts occur. Truffles are hunted in the Kalahari by men and women; they look for cracks in the soil, often humped, caused by expansion of the truffles, which are then extracted with hands or digging sticks. The truffles are eaten raw or cooked (boiled, roasted over fire, or buried in hot ashes). Commercial harvest of Kalahari truffles has increased in the last decade and the quantities harvested have been observed to be declining where livestock have been concentrated.
4256739| In most of the western world where industrial hemp, Cannabis sativa, is licensed for cultivation, the plants must not exceed a level of 0.3% tetrahydrocannobinol (THC), the principal intoxicating constituent of the species. Because there are no publicly available germplasm hemp collections in North America and only a very few, recent North American cultivars have been bred, the future breeding of cultivars suitable for North America is heavily dependent on European cultivars and European germplasm collections. Based mostly on material from Europe, this study surveyed THC levels of 167 accessions grown in southern Ontario, making this the largest survey to date of germplasm intended for breeding in North America. Forty-three percent of these had THC levels 0.3% and, therefore, are unsuitable for hemp development in North America. Discrepancies were found between THC levels reported for some germplasm holdings in Europe when they were grown in Canada and, accordingly, verification of THC levels developed in North America is necessary. 
4254791|During the formative period of ethnobotanical studies in the Southwest, Edward Palmer established a standard for reporting useful plants that continues today and Frank. H. Cushing wrote a classic ethnobotany from an anthropological perspective, Zuni Breadstuff. Since these beginnings single tribal studies and, more recently, archaeobotanical investigations have received emphasis. Linguistic studies of plant names and their classification have lagged and synthetic summaries and interpretative explanations of plant use are still demanded. Anthropology's unique contribution to Southwestern ethnobotany is relating socially shared plant taxonomies and cultural rules for behaving with plants to explain why certain plants are used and others are ignored.
4254729|Fronds of a fern of the Asplenium acrobryum complex were traditionally used as a source of salt in the inland areas of Papua New Guinea. All previously published reports of the use of fern salt in the botanical and ethnobotanical literature had erroneously identified the species involved as Asplenium nidus, one of the common bird's-nest ferns. A chemical analysis of the salts contained in the ash of the salt fern as well as those species related to Asplenium nidus revealed that the bulk of the inorganic component was potassium, calcium and chloride. These results are comparable to those published for the salt-yielding grass, Coix gigantea. There is no obvious chemical reason why only Asplenium acrobryum should be used for salt production in preference to Asplenium nidus and related species. In view of the low levels of consumption of such salt it is unlikely that there will be any cases of potassium toxicity attributable to the use of these plants.
4257220| This paper presents estimates of yield for effort of the cultivar, 'Taputini,' which is a sweet potato that was eaten by the Mori of New Zealand before European contact in the 18th century. The two experimental archaeology gardens were planted at sites on either side of Cook Strait: the one with clay soils is on the South Island at Robin Hood Bay; the one with sandy soils is at Whatarangi on the North Island. The records of labor input required to cultivate these gardens over seven years for Robin Hood Bay and six years for Whatarangi compared with crop yields provide data on the economics of pre-European kmara gardening. Also reported are some of the properties of the soil. These gardens produced an average of 12 metric tons (1,000 kilograms = 1 metric ton) per hectare (ha), which is not much less than contemporary yields for modern cultivars and 3 to 4 times most previous estimates of pre-European production. 
4253888|Populations of apomictic seedlings of clones of Citrus species, Citrus hybrids, and Poncirus in the sub-family Aurantioideae were examined for spontaneous tetraploids as a source of materials for use in breeding experiments. Diagnostic features found useful in identifying nucellar tetraploids were leaf shape, petiole blade shape, leaf blade thickness, leaf color, comparative size differences in leaf venation, oil glands, and stomata, stem thickness, and relative size and developmental pattern of the root system. In older or bearing-age plants, nucellar tetraploids may be identified by differences in growth habit, vigor, size, time of growth initiation and bloom, and flower and fruit characteristics. Data are given for tetraploid frequency in glasshouse-grown, first-year nucellar seedlings of 42 populations of 32 clones of different genetic and seed origin and for tetraploid frequency in commercial-nursery nucellar seedlings of the Carrizo rootstock clone in two consecutive years. Comparative data are given for quantitative development of roots, stems, and leaves of tetraploids and similar diploid nucellar seedlings. The data suggest that the ability to produce tetraploid apomictic seedlings is a variable genetic trait present in all or nearly all clones able to reproduce by adventitious embryony. Aspects of tetraploid nucellar seedlings that might warrant their testing as tree-size-controlling rootstocks in commercial citrus growing are discussed.
4252330|The genus Cnidoscolus, of the Spurge Family (Euphorbiaceae), is a homogeneous group of herbs, shrubs or small to medium-sized trees indigenous to tropical America, with a few species extending to subtropical and temperate regions. The generic name, derived from the Greek meaning nettle and spine, alludes to the painfully stinging hairs frequently present. Two species of chilte growing in west-central Mexico are now utilized in industry as a source of gutta-like material with high hydrocarbon and resin content.
4253771|Ocimum basilicum var. citriodora plants were grown in July and August under 9 hours of daylight, outdoors, plus 0 to 15 hours of fluorescent light (125 fc), indoors. The overground portion of the plants was harvested when they were in bloom and subjected to Clevenger distillation. The essential oil was analyzed by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. Flower development was most rapid when the plants were exposed to 18 hours of light daily. The greatest yield in herb was obtained under 24 hours of light; for photoperiods of 15 to 18 hours the yield was slightly lower, but the plants reached harvesting state 10 days earlier. The oil was resolved in 19 components, 8 of which were identified. The percentage of each of these components was affected differently by the photoperiods used in this experiment.
4256389| This study documents patterns of use of wild and weedy greens in a previously little studied context among the Piik ap Oom Okiek of Kenya. The Piik ap Oom have a hunter-gatherer history and at the time of the study lived at low population densities in a high altitude forest habitat. Leafy greens, both wild and domesticated, were the most commonly eaten fresh plant food documented. Wild greens, Solanum nigrum L. and Amaranthus graecizans ssp. sylvestris L. were the most preferred. Patterns of harvesting wild greens, a few leaves from many plants and a variety of taxa together, resulted in greater dietary diversity associated with consumption of wild than domesticated greens. Greens provided contemporary Okiek households with nutritious and low maintenance plant food. Increased use of wild and weedy greens was an important benefit of the adoption of the agricultural complex by the Okiek. /// Cette tude documente les habitudes d'utilisation des plantes sauvages  feuilles comestibles dans le contexte jusqu'ici peu tudi des Okiek Piik ap Oom du Kenya. Les Piik ap Oom ont une histoire de chasse et de cueillette et vivent en densit faible dans un habitat forestier  haute altitude. Les plantes  feuilles, sauvages et domestiques, reprsentent la nourriture la plus consomme. Solanum nigrum L. et Amaranthus graecizans ssp. sylvestris L. sont les plantes sauvages les plus prises. L'habitude de rcolter des plantes sauvages, quelques feuilles provenant de nombreuses plantes, reprsentant ensemble une varit de taxons, se traduit par une grande diversit alimentaire associe  la consommation de plantes sauvages plutt que domestiques. Les plantes constituent pour les mnages Okiek d'aujourd'hui une nourriture nutritive  faible entretien. L'utilisation croissante de plantes sauvages  feuilles comestibles reprsente un avantage important li  l'adoption, par les Okiek, du systme agricole. 
4256922|An ethnobotanical survey was carried out to collect information on the use of medicinal plants by the Lisu people who live in the mountainous areas of the Nujiang Canyon (Salween River Valley) in Nujiang Prefecture, northwestern Yunnan Province, China. A total of 52 medicinal plants, belonging to 32 families, were reported as being used locally for the treatment of human ailments. The scientific and Lisu names, parts used, and preparation of the plants are presented. Most of these species are wild (80%), while others are domesticated (8%) or semi-cultivated (12%). Among the 52 species, 11 species (21.2%) were reported as rare and 16 were widely commercialized in the region. Over-exploitation and deforestation are the main causes for the depletion of medicinal plants in this area. The Lisu people still mostly depend on medicinal plants for their health care. The loss and endangered status of these plants will, to a certain extent, impede their existing health care system; conservation and sustainable harvest of medicinal plants in the area are urgently needed.
41242866|This study examined differences in knowledge, use values, and contribution of tamarind (Tamarindus indica) to women's cash income during the dry season, focusing on seven tribal groups in Benin. Data were gathered using semistructured individual interviews and monitoring, and were analyzed using quantitative ethnobotanical methods. Principal component analysis was applied to describe the use value and use forms of tamarind according to different tribes. Tamarind was found to play an important role in local communities' livelihoods. Overall, 26 different uses were mentioned for tamarind products. Most commonly, the fruit (pulp) was used to make beverages, as a laxative and purgative, and it seems to be the only plant part sold commercially. Bark was frequently used as a medicine to treat wounds, and leaves were used to make porridge and as an antibiotic. Medicinal, cultural, and material use categories were correlated best with the Fulani, whereas commerce was most correlated with Gourma tribes (PCA analysis). There were significant differences for tamarind utilization among the tribal groups, with overall ethnobotanical use values (EUV t ) ranging from 10 to 14, and contribution to cash income ranging from 8.8% to 56.4%. In view of its domestication potential, it is crucial that traditional tribal knowledge of tamarind be preserved and integrated into management policies. Further development and research needs for utilization and conservation are improvement of commercialization, organization of market channels, and extent of genetic diversity within and among populations. Cette tude a mis en vidence les diffrences entre groupes tribales sur les connaissances, les valeurs d'usage, et la contribution du tamarinier au revenu montaire des femmes pendant la saison sche au Bnin. Les donnes ont t collectes grce  des entretiens individuels semi-structurs et analyses au moyen de mthodes ethnobotanique quantitatives. L'analyse en composante principale a t applique pour dcrire la valeur d'usage et les formes d'utilisation du tamarinier en fonction des diffrentes tribus. Le tamarinier joue un rle important dans les activits gnratrices de revenues pour les communauts locales. Au total 26 diffrentes utilisations ont t mentionnes pour les produits issus du tamarinier. Gnralement, la pulpe du fruit est utilise pour faire des boissons, comme un laxatif et un purgatif et semble tre la seule partie commercialise de la plante. L'corce est frquemment utilise en mdecine traditionnelle pour traiter les blessures profondes alors que les feuilles sont utilises pour la prparation de bouillis et comme un antibiotique. L'espce a plus une valeur mdicinale, culturelle et artisanale pour les Fulanialors qu'elle a une plus grande valeur commerciale pour les tribus Gourma (analyse ACP). Des diffrences significatives ont t observes entre les tribus sur l'usage du tamarinier, avec des valeurs d'usage ethnobotanique total comprises entre 10 et 14 et des contributions au revenu montaire variant de 8.8%  56.4%. Compte tenu de son potentiel  la domestication, il est crucial que les connaissances traditionnelles sur le tamarinier soit prserves et intgres dans les politiques de gestion. L'amlioration de commercialisation, l'organisation de circuits de commercialisation, l'valuation de la diversit gntique intra et inter populations au sein de l'espce sont ncessaires pour assurer son utilisation durable et sa conservation.
4252705|Nicotiana tabacum L., cultivated tobacco, is one of 65 species in the genus Nicotiana. Over the past 30 years, varying numbers of the species have been included in tests of resistance to tobacco diseases by research workers in tobacco-producing areas throughout the world. This report summarizes these investigations in tabular form and discusses methods whereby interspecific transfer of disease resistance may be accomplished.
4256911| The Lowland Mayan culture has been one of the most successful in Mesoamerica. Being an agricultural society, part of their success was based on plant genetic resources which satisfied their needs of social reproduction. This article reviews recent evidence on early agriculture in the geographic area where Lowland Maya culture originated, and discusses its implications for the study of plant domestication and evolution under human selection within this cultural sub-area. Questions of interest for future research are posed. As working hypotheses, we list two categories of species possibly implicated in the origin of this civilization: (1) native species that could have been the subject of local human selection or to some degree of agricultural manipulation by 3400 B.C., and (2) species that could have been introduced from other cultural areas of America by 3400 B.C. and subsequently subjected to local human selection. /// La cultura maya de las tierras bajas ha sido una de las ms exitosas de Mesomrica. Siendo una sociedad agrcola, parte de su xito ha estado basado en los recursos fitogenticos que han satisfecho sus necesidades de reproduccin social. En este artculo se revisa, dentro del contexto Mesoamericano, la evidencia reciente sobre la agricultura temprana en el rea geogrfica de origen de esta cultura, se analizan sus implicaciones para los estudios de domesticacin de plantas y evolucin bajo seleccin humana ocurridos en ella, y se plantean preguntas de inters para investigaciones futuras. Como hiptesis de trabajo, presentamos dos listas de especies posiblemente implicadas en el origen de esta civilizacin: (1) las especies nativas que pudieron ser objeto de seleccin humana local o de cierto grado de manipulacin agrcola desde al menos 3400 B.C., y (2) las especies que pudieron ser introducidas de otras reas culturales de Amrica, desde al menos 3400 B.C. y haber sido objeto de seleccin humana local desde periodos tempranos. 
4256390|Field and herbarium studies on wild flowering plants of Ethiopia furnished 203 species consumed by the community. These account for about 3% of the higher plant species in the country and comprise herbs (37%), shrubs (32%), and trees (31%). Species with edible fruits contributed to 61.6%, leaves 27.7%, stems 14.4%, roots 13.3%, and seeds 10.3%. About 15% are considered famine foods. Forest habitats gave 102 species, woodlands 99, grasslands 83, bushlands 52, rocky and dry areas 47, cultivated places 41, riverbanks 31, and roadsides/disturbed areas 25. The altitudinal distribution gave 148 species between 1500-2400 m, 144 below 1500 m and 81 above 2400 m a.s.l. Some species are wild and others slightly or strongly associated with humans, revealing a living analogue of the wild-semiwild-domesticated continuum. Full-scale ethnobotanical studies, implementing appropriate conservation measures and domesticating and integrating promising taxa into existing crops are favored for the purpose of diversification of food sources, ensuring food security, and maintenance of biodiversity and environmental integrity.
4252008|The array of vegetable foods found in the Chinatown markets of New York and other large cities has not only excited the curiosity of those looking for exotic foods but also stimulated interest in the plants themselves.
4255289| Agaves have long been utilized for their leaf fiber and for beverage production. As first reported in 1968 for Agave americana, they are Crassulacean Acid Metabolism (CAM) plants, for which stomatal opening and CO
4256053| This article outlines the ethnobotanical and economic importance of the monkey-puzzle tree (Araucaria araucana), a long-lived conifer endemic to the temperate forests of Chile and Argentina. It also assesses the connection between indigenous resource rights and environmental conservation by examining the history of the tree's use in Ralco Lepoy, an indigenous community of 800 inhabitants located in the Andes of southern Chile. Primary data were collected through interviews and field observations. Secondary data were collected through archival research in national and provincial capitals. Self-determination and territorial rights are important factors in the indigenous interest in and commitment to the conservation of the monkey-puzzle tree. A complementary approach to indigenous land rights and environmental protection may be an appropriate strategy to decentralize conservation efforts and ensure local participation in developing sustainable resource management plans. /// Este artculo resume la importancia etnobotnica y econmica del pehun (Araucaria araucana), una confera de larga vida del bosque templado de Chile y Argentina. Este artculo tambin evala la coneccin entre los derechos a los recursos que tienen los indgenas y la conservacin ambiental, a travs del estudio del uso histrico del pehun en Ralco Lepoy, una comunidad indgena de 800 habitantes ubicada en los Andes del sur de Chile. Datos primarios fueron recolectados a travs de entrevistas y observaciones de campo. Datos secundarios fueron obtenidos de archivos en las capitales nacionales y provinciales. La autodeterminacin y los derechos territoriales son factores importantes que predicen el inters y la participacin de los indgenas en la conservacin del pehun. Un enfoque complementario de los derechos de la tierra y conservacin ambiental puede ser una estrategia apropiada para descentralizar los esfuerzos de conservacin y asegurar la participacin local. 
4256520|The uses, perceptions, and economic significance of cacao have radically changed in the past 25 years among the Mopan Maya in southern Belize. Cacao was once perceived as a ceremonial crop with little cash value. Over the past 25 years though, cacao has become the most important cash crop grown by the Mopan Maya. The Mopan Maya grow organic cacao that has allowed them to tap into a specialized, high-end chocolate market. However, the emergence of cacao as an important cash crop has altered traditional uses and created conflicts in villages where increasing acreage of reservation lands are planted with cacao, thereby assigning a commercial value to previously communal lands.
4287867|The subterranean tubers of Mexican yams have superseded the seed of African Strophanthus vines as the most promising vegetable source of components commercially convertible into cortisone. This arthritis-combatting drug is still manufactured primarily from bile acids of cattle, but intense efforts are being made to find suitable plant sources. In this article four of the U. S. Government scientists engaged in this work describe what is being done in this direction under Federal auspices.
4254790|Scholars have seldom considered the native crop diversity in northwest Mexico and the U.S. Southwest as resources of the same cohesive ecological and cultural region. The term Aridoamerica is introduced to describe this overlooked center of plant domestication and diversification, which is distinct from centers of Mesoamerica and the Mississippi Valley. To understand why certain of its landraces are unique, the systematic relationships and gene-pool relations of crops found prehistorically and protohistorically in Aridoamerica are reviewed. Signifcant crop/weed introgression continues where indigenous agriculture persists, but native fields are being rapidly abandoned or converted. In planning in situ and ex situ conservation efforts to maintain this diversity, both cultural factors and plant population genetics must be considered.
4252009|The pits and nuts of almond, Persian walnut, pecan, filbert, tung, apricot, prune, peach, cherry and plum; the fruit pulp of avocado and olive; and the seeds of citrus fruits, grape, apple, pear, cranberry and numerous other domestically cultivated plants are sources of valuable oils already in use.
4256111| The Hock, commonly known as the Winnebago, are one of the original tribes in the present state of Wisconsin. The field notes of Huron Smith, compiled in the late 1920s and early 1930s, document the extensive use of plant materials by Hock people. Smith's notes contain references to 199 vascular plant species in 74 families, with recorded uses for 153 of these species. Medicinal plants (with 117 species) comprise the largest category, followed by food (37 species), and fiber and material uses (22 species). Smith's work is unique for its time because he thoroughly explored the tribal uses of the plants in addition to collecting voucher specimens and photographic plates, and because it remains the most extensive Hock ethnobotanical study. Added to Smith's other works of tribes in Wisconsin (Menominee, Meskwaki, Ojibwe, and Potawatomi), the Hock ethnobotany broadens the cultural base of his regional compilation of Native North American plant uses. In addition, this is an important body of information for the Hock people and those interested in their use of plants. 
4256812| The authors report on ongoing work in the Brazilian Amazon to assess the current and prospective management of rosewood (Aniba rosaeodora Ducke) populations threatened by a half-century of predatory extraction for the valuable essential oil linalool used widely in perfumery. The report synthesizes prior research on rosewood exploitation and markets and recent research to develop new essential oil products derived from rosewood leaves and stems. The study suggests alternative rosewood production systems, to guide investment in management and certification of sustainable rosewood oil supplies. /// Os autores relatam estudos passados e atualmente em curso referente ao manejo de populaes de Pau-rosa (Aniba rosaeodora Ducke) ameaadas por meio-sculo de extrao predatria para a produo de leo essencial, rico em linalol, extensivamente usado em perfumaria. O trabalho sintetiza os resultados de pesquisas sobre a explorao e mercados do Pau-rosa, fundamentada em entrevistas feitas com representantes governamentais, cientistas locais, comerciantes e productores de Pau-rosa. O estudo sugere alternativas para a organizao de um sistema sustentvel de produo de Pau-rosa que conduzam ao investimento, manejo e certificao de fontes sustentveis de leo essencial de Pau-rosa. 
4256454| We present a review of published and unpublished information on the multipurpose tropical legume tree, Erythrina americana. The genus Erythrina (Fabaceae) consists of 115 species distributed throughout the tropical regions of the world; 25 species are known from Mexico. E. americana is used as an ornamental tree, also as shade for cocoa and coffee and as a support tree, as a live fence, and for green manure and animal feed. The flowers are frequently eaten, used to make tea and as a sedative. The seeds are toxic because of alkaloids; they are applied in folk medicine as laxative, diuretic, expectorant, anti-asthmatic and antimalarial. The first compounds isolated were isoquinoline alkaloids; of these, -erythroidine and its more potent derivate dihydro--erythroidine were shown to possess curariform activity. Of both compounds, the LD
4256838| We present in this paper data about the popular uses of elder (Sambucus nigra) obtained in two ethnobotanical studies carried out in the districts (comarques) of Pallars Juss and Pallars Sobir (Pyrenees) and in the Montseny Massif (Catalan Prelittoral Range), complemented with others from different Catalan regions (also investigated by our group) and compared with those from other Iberian and Mediterranean territories. This bush or small tree belonging to the family Caprifoliaceae is one of the plants that have been most reported and used (for medicinal and other purposes) by the informants, not only in the two regions studied but in all Catalonia and in many Mediterranean areas as well. It is one of the most versatile of plants, being used for food, medicine, crafts and games, as well as for ornamental purposes. In addition, almost every part of the plant, including the bark, roots, leaves, flowers, and fruit, has some uses. /// Presentamos en este trabajo los datos sobre la utilizacin popular del saco (Sambucus nigra) obtenidos en sendos estudios etnobotnicos llevados a cabo en las comorcas del Pallars Juss y Pallars Sobir (Pirineo) y el el macizo del Montseny (Cordillera Prelitoral Catalana), complementados por otros procedentes de distintas regiones catalanas (tambin investigadas por nuestro grupo), y comparados con los de otros territorios ibricos y mediterrneos. Este arbusto o arbolito perteneciente a la familia Caprifoliaceae es una de las plantas ms citadas y usadas (con fines medicinales y de otro tipo), no slo en las dos regiones estudiadas, sino en toda Catalua y en muchas zonas del Mediterrneo. Es una de las plantas ms versatiles, puesto que sus usos comprenden campos muy diversos, tales como medicinal, alimentario, ornamental, artesanal y ldico entre otros. Es de resaltar adems la caracterstica de que casi todas sus partes (corteza, raz, hojas, flores, frutos) tienen algn uso. 
4256487|We evaluated the diversity, social, and economic aspects of nontimber forest product (NTFP) collection in the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve (NBR), in southern India. The NBR is a region known for its floral and faunal diversity, as well as an area with increasing human pressure. Fifty to 75% of the households (HH) in rural areas gather a diversity of forest products. Dominant NTFPs contributed 25-60% of the average annual per capita household income from NTFPs. The mean annual per capita household income from NTFPs ranges between Rs. 134 and Rs. 4955. The mean annual income per hectare ranges from Rs. 93 in the montane zone to Rs. 3780 in the moist deciduous. NTFPs contribute 15-50% of the annual per capita income of rural households. Ethnicity plays an important role in the collection of NTFPs and ethnic tribes derive a large proportion of their annual per capita income from NTFPs.
4256489| Anoda cristata is a common weed used for food and medicine in central Mexico where it grows among field crops during the rainy seasons. People prefer robust, tender plants from the agricultural fields because these "develop better." Hence, the plants are tolerated within the conventional agricultural activities and benefit indirectly from the improvements in the agrohabitat. People do not select individuals with specific morphological characteristics but rather they select for plants at the level of the habitat. This step may precede that of direct management of individual plants. It is possible that these differences in the level of interaction between humans and plants (i.e., within the ruderal and agrestal habitats) may promote morphological and genetic differences over time. /// Anoda cristata es una maleza muy comn utilizada como medicina y alimento en el centro de Mxico durante la poca de lluvias La gente prefiere las plantas robustas y tiernas que crecen en los campos de cultivo porque se "desarrollan mejor." Ah, las plantas son toleradas dentro de las prcticas agrcolas tradicionales y se benefician indirectamente de las alteraciones que se hacen al agrohabitat. La gente no selecciona conscientemente individuos con caractersticas morfolgicas especficas, sino que seleccionan a las plantas a nivel del hbitat. Este paso puede ser previo al manejo indirecto de individuos particulares. Es posible que estas diferencias en el nivel de interaccin entre los hombres y las plantas (entre el hbitat ruderal y arvense) puede promover diferencias morfolgicas y genticas a travs del tiempo. 
4254395|Strains of Orobanche crenata, O. aegyptiaca, O. minor, O. ramosa and O. cernua from different geographical areas and from different host species were potted with tobacco, tomato and other hosts. Orobanche cernua, O. aegyptiaca and O. ramosa from tobacco and from tomato did equally well on either host. Orobanche crenata grew vigorously on broadbean even when the original host was safflower or coleus. Orobanche minor has apparently developed several distinct strains.
4255360|Economic Botany 45(3):305-308. 1991. A field trip was undertaken in Ladakh, the northernmost frontier of Jammu and Kashmir State, India. A collection of plants was made from this remote trans-Himalayan region at an altitude ranging from 3000 to 5500 m. Local people were contacted for the local names and uses of plants growing there. They are used as vegetables, in ceremonial observation, in material culture, in personal hygiene, and as fodder or suspected stock poison.
41242862|The Shaxi Valley in Yunnan Province, P. R. China, is inhabited by Tibeto-Burman ethnic groups. We found a clear dichotomy between household strategies in the valley bottom and the mountain areas, with significantly lower household income in the mountains. The majority Bai people live predominantly in the fertile valley floor and cultivate rice, keep livestock, and commonly pursue off-farm work. Other ethnic groups live in more remote mountainous areas of the Shaxi Valley, where the collection of non-wood forest products, especially wild mushrooms, plays an important role in securing livelihoods. However, only households in the valley's central villages engage in the profitable non-wood forest product trade. Mushroom populations appear to be less vulnerable to commercial harvest than the rapidly declining wild medicinal plant populations. Due to this decline, local farmers have gained interest in cultivating medicinal plants, but only if risks are low and if financial and technical support is provided. Encouraging the cultivation of medicinal plants appears to be an appropriate means of sustainable community development. .t - : ;  ~  IJf"l :~ JXI.   ;9&lt;
4255445| Trichomes have been implicated as a mechanism which can confer resistance to both plant pests and drought. A study was conducted to provide information regarding genetic variability for trichome distribution and density among three diverse dry bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) cultivars, and to characterize the types of trichomes present among the cultivars. Trichomes on the leaf surfaces were micrographed with a scanning electron microscope (SEM) and counted using a stereomicroscope on both the abaxial and adaxial leaf surfaces of the cultivars 'Bill Z', 'Pompadour Checa' and 'Diacol Calima'. Straight, hooked, and glandular trichomes were observed on the leaf surfaces of each cultivar. SEM micrographs are presented for the leaf surfaces of each cultivar and trichome type. The abaxial leaf surface had more straight trichomes than the adaxial leaf surface for 'Pompadour Checa' and 'Diacol Calima', however 'Bill Z' had more on the adaxial surface. The opposite relationship existed among the cultivars and leaf surfaces for the hooked trichomes. /// Tricomas han sido implicado como un mechanismo el cual puede conferir resistencia a sequa y pestes. Un estudio fue conducido para obtener informacin acerca de la variabilidad gentica de la distribucin y densidad de tricomas entre tres diversos cultivares de frijol para grano seco, y caracterizar los tipos de tricomas presente entre los cultivares. Los tricomas de la superficie de la hojas fueron micrografiados con un scanning microscopio electronico (SEM) y contados empleando un stereo microscopio en ambas superficies abaxial y adaxial de hojas de los cultivares 'Bill Z', 'Pompadour Checa' y 'Diacol Calima'. Tricomas rectos, unciforme, y glandulares fueron observados sobre la superficie de las hojas en cada cultivar. SEM micrografias son presentados para la superficie de las hojas de cada cultivar y tipo de tricoma. La superficie abaxial de la hoja tuvo ms tricomas rectos que la superficie adaxial de la hoja para 'Pompadour Checa' y 'Diacol Calima', sin embargo 'Bill Z' tuvo ms en la superficie adaxial. Una relacin opuesta existe entre los cultivares y superficie de las hojas para los tricomas unciformes. 
4254613| Smooth sumac (Rhus glabra) is a potential whole-plant source of polyphenol and oil. In a 2-yr evaluation of progenies from 14 Maryland, 1 northern Virginia, and 2 Georgia populations, highly significant variation (1% level) in vigor, number of plants surviving the seeding year, dry matter yield the seeding year, and number of tillers produced the second year was observed. In 15 entries, highly significant variation (1% level) in polyphenol + oil and in gallotannins was observed. Dry matter yields, extrapolated to Mg ha
4287823|While the skill of plant breeders, by their techniques of artificial hybridization, have produced many valuable varieties of edible fruit, other important varieties have arisen by natural hybridization and mutation without the assistance of man. Among them are the Concord grape, Washington navel orange and pink grapefruit.
4254487| Water hyacinth, Eichhornia crassipes, growth and nutrient uptake rates, as influenced by different N sources and N transformations, were measured using microcosm aquaculture systems. Net productivity was highest in the system receiving equal amounts of
41242928|Pandanus guillaumetii B.C. Stone is endemic to the east coast rainforests of Madagascar. The plant is an important non-timber forest product (NTFP) for the local population living near these forests, and its leaves are collected by women to be woven into mats. These mats have economic value and are also used for daily activities. At present, little is known about how local harvesting practices impact this plant species. In this study, we describe women's local harvest practices and quantify their impact on the P. guillaumetii population. We carried out plant inventories as well as interviews and participatory observations with local people harvesting P. guillaumetii in two villages with different population densities in the Manompana region. Inventories were conducted at varying distances from the villages in order to better understand the influence of human pressure on the plant population. The results suggest that local communities apply practices that tend to minimize the harvest impact on the plant. Harvesting seems to have no effect on the actual density of P. guillaumetii. However, the availability of plants with leaves of sufficient quality for mat production is influenced by human pressure. Considering the decreasing number of plants suitable for handicraft, we assume that their availability in the long term may not fulfill the needs of the local people. Pandanus guillaumetii B.C. Stone, une espce endmique de Madagascar, se trouve dans les forts ombrophiles du versant oriental de l'le. Les femmes des communauts vivant  proximit de ces forts en utilisent les feuilles pour confectionner des nattes. Il s'agit de produits forestiers non ligneux en usage dans la vie quotidienne et qui ont une valeur conomique. Les prlvements de feuilles contribuent-ils  la rarfaction de l'espce? A ce jour, peu de recherches ont t ralises  ce sujet. Dans notre tude, nous dcrivons les modes de prlvement des feuilles de P. guillaumetii et cherchons  quantifier l'impact des prlvements sur les populations de l'espce. Nous avons ralis des inventaires en fort et effectu des interviews et des observations participatives avec les habitants de deux villages de la rgion de Manompana. Afin de saisir les effets de la pression humaine, nous avons effectu des inventaires  diffrentes distances des villages. Il ressort des rsultats que les pratiques de prlvement des feuilles par la population locale tendent  minimiser l'impact de la rcolte. Les prlvements ne paraissent pas avoir d'effet sur la densit de la population de l'espce. Nanmoins, les plantes fournissant des feuilles convenant  la confection de nattes sont moins abondantes  proximit des villages. Considrant la diminution du nombre d'individus se prtant  un usage artisanal, nous estimons qu' long terme, les besoins de la population ne pourront plus tre satisfaits.
4255179| The rubber yield of the guayule plant (Parthenium argentatum) is determined by its rubber concentration and biomass production, both of which are a function of genetic constituents and environmental conditions. With the aim of selecting best performing lines of guayule under the climatic conditions of the northern Negev of Israel, two-yr-old guayule plants from 13 USDA lines were evaluated for height, spread, canopy fresh and dry weight, branch and leaf dry weight, rubber and resin concentration, and rubber and resin yield per plant. Significant differences were found among the lines for all the characteristics tested. Lines 11600 and 11604 excelled in rubber and biomass production and were taller and more uniform than the other lines; whereas line N593, conventionally used as a standard, performed poorly and was less uniform. The correlation between rubber yield per plant and rubber concentration was poor, rubber yield being related mainly to biomass production and to a lesser degree to height and spread of the plants. Taken together with the fact that biomass production was more variable than rubber concentration, this finding suggests that breeding and selection of guayule for high rubber yield should be directed primarily towards improvement of biomass production rather than rubber concentration. In the northern Negev of Israel, USDA lines 11600 and 11604 performed well. /// Der Gummiertrag von Guayule (Parthenium argentatum) wird bestimmt durch die Gummikonzentration und die Biomassenproduktion. Beide Faktoren sind abhngig von dem genetischen Material sowie den Umweltbedingungen. Negev in Israel, zu zchten, wurden zwei Jahre alte Guayule Pflanzen von 13 USDA Linien nach Gre, Umfang, Trocken,- und Frischgewicht der Krone, Verzeigung, Blattockengewicht, Gummi,- und Harzkonzentration sowie Gummi,- und Harzertrag pro Pflanze beurteilt. Bedeutende Unterschiede zwischen den Linien konnten hinsichtlich aller Beurteilungskriterien festgestellt werden. Die Linien 11600 und 11604 ragten durch ihre gute Gummi,- sowie Biomassenproducktion, als auch durch ihrr Gre und Uniformitt heraus. Im Vergleich schnitt die Linie N593, die im allgemeinen als Standart benutzt wird, schlecht ab und zeigle eine geringe Uniformitat. Keine Korrelation zwischen Gummiertrag pro Pflanze und Gummikonzentration wurde festgestellt. Der Gummiertrag bezog sich im wesentlichen auf die Biomassenproduktion, weniger auf die Hhe und den Umfang der Pflanze. Die Biomassenproduktion wies eine hhere Variabilitt auf als die Gummikonzentration. Diesen Beobachtungen zur Folge, sollte die Zchtung und Selektion von Guayule hauptschlich auf eine hhere Biomassenproduktion, und weniger auf die Gummikonzentration gerichtet werden. Die USDA Linien 11600 und 11604 bewhrten sich am besten im nrdlichen Negev Israels. 
4252125|The only European vegetable introductions which have been absorbed by the Maoris as standard items are potatoes, squash and maize. The one use of maize developed by the Maoris which has been considered unique is the process of "rotting" or fermenting in water prior to eating. This process is similar to one employed in the Sierra of Ancash in Peru.
4257116| Of the twelve species of Chamaedorea palm recorded for Belize, three are of international economic value because their cut leaves (xat) are traded in the floricultural industry. Traditionally, Belize has not harvested xat, the industry being based in Mexico and Guatemala. However, a decline in wild xat stocks in these countries means Guatemalan leaf harvesters now illegally harvest xat in Belize. To assess the local abundance of the Belizean Chamaedorea resource, its economic value, and the extent to which it has been illegally harvested, 209 plots measuring 20 meters (m) by 20 m were established in the Greater Maya Mountains (GMM) in western Belize, which includes the Chiquibul Forest Reserve (CFR). We estimate that 37.8 million leaves with a value of U.S. $0.3 million to xateros have been extracted from the CFR. The standing export value is calculated as U.S. $1.8 million for the CFR and U.S. $5 million for the GMM. 
4255483| Cocos nucifera Linn. was introduced to Mexico by Spanish navigators in the middle of the 16th century, from Cape Verde and Santo Domingo to the Atlantic coast, and from the Solomon Islands and the Philippines to the Pacific coast. These populations remained isolated from one another for almost 500 years. Morphological studies on fruit characteristics show that coconuts from the two populations are contrasting forms. The Atlantic coast populations show a wild type fruit, with angular shape, thick husk, thick shell, thick endosperm and low water content. The Pacific populations have a domesticated type fruit, with fruit and nut more spherical, with a much thinner husk and shell, and higher water content. The higher variability observed in the Pacific coast raises the possibility of later introductions, also from the Philippines or other Pacific islands. /// Cocos nucifera Linn. fu introducido a Mxico por los espaoles hacia la primera mitad del siglo XVI, de Cabo Verde y Santo Domingo a las costas del Golfo de Mxico, mientras que a las costas del Pacfico fue introducido de las Islas Salomn y las Islas Filipinas. Las poblaciones de ambas costas permanecieron aisladas por casi 500 aos. Estudios morfolgicos de fruto, mostraron que ambas poblaciones presentan caractersticas contrastadas. Las del Golfo tienen un fruto tipo "silvestre," de forma angulosa; con mesocarpo grueso; semilla con endocarpo y endospermo grueso y bajo contenido de agua, caractersticas consideradas como antiguas. En cambio las poblaciones del Pacfico presentan fruto y semilla esfricos; fruto con mesocarpo delgado; semilla con endocarpo delgado y alto contenido de agua, caractersticas consideradas modernas relacionadas a su proceso de domesticacin. La alta variabilidad observada en el Pacfico, plantea la posibilidad de otras introducciones, de las Filipinas o de otras islas del Pacfico. 
4255407|Nypa fruticans Wurmb. dominated wetlands are commonly found where brackish waters overflow with the tides. This swamp palm is harvested for a variety of purposes, including roofing, construction materials and peels for rolling cigarettes from its leaves, and sugar syrup, an intoxicating juice, vinegar and alcohol from its floral and fruit stalk exudate. Extraction techniques are traditional, and current resource development strategies are non-existent in areas where nipa palms are being harvested. Maintenance of adequate supplies of the resource requires knowledge of demand on the resource and its renewability under natural and harvest regimes. To sustain production, indigenous populations follow conservation-oriented practices in husbanding the natural resource.
4253037|The number of inbreeding generations required to produce homozygotes may be reduced if the more homozygous individuals in each breeding generation are selected phenotypically in the segregating progenies for further inbreeding. To demonstrate this, inbred lines and their
40390613|Overharvest of wild Echinacea species root has been a significant concern to the herbal industry. Harvesters of wild Echinacea angustifolia showed us that even after harvesting the top 15 to 20 cm of root, some plants resprout. We marked locations of harvested plants at sites in Kansas and Montana and reexamined them two years later to see if they resprouted from remaining root reserves. Approximately 50% of the roots resprouted at both Kansas and Montana sampling sites, despite droughty weather conditions in Montana. The length of root harvested significantly affected the ability of the plant to resprout. Those plants that were more shallowly harvested and had less root length removed were more likely to resprout. These data indicate that echinacea stands can recover over time from intensive harvest if periods of non-harvest occur. Our echinacea harvest study emphasizes that the entire biology of medicinal plants must be considered when evaluating their conservation status.
4253134| Bacteria capable of retting jute are present in pond water, in the soil of jute fields, and on the surface of jute plants. They probably enter stems over the whole surface through stomata, as well as through cut ends and leaf scars, after immersion for retting. Under laboratory conditions the shortest period of retting, three days, was achieved with Bacillus polymyxa at a temperature of 40. Retting in a tank was appreciably hastened by using the same water for successive batches of jute. Prolonged immersion involves the risk of over-retting, probably because of the action of cellulolytic bacteria. For natural retting, still the most appropriate process in East Pakistan, large clean ponds are thought to provide the most suitable conditions. 
4256051| Asian rice is an important grain, not only in its homeland but in many areas of the world. Preliminary studies suggested that phytolith analysis, the identification of opaline silica bodies, provided a reliable way of identifying rice, especially in situations where preservation of charred botanical remains was poor. Results of this follow-up study, which incorporates all Asian wild Oryza species and a diverse array of traditional Oryza sativa cultivars, confirm that rice can be identified with a high level of certainty by the size and qualitative features of a distincitve phytolith, the double-peaked glume cell. /// Le riz d'Asie est une crale importante, non seulement dans son pays d'origine, mais  travers le monde. Des tudes prliminaires suggrent que l'analyze phytolithique-identification de particules de silica opalis-fournit un moyen sur pour identifier le riz, surtout dans les cas de mauvais tat de conservation des restes bruls organiques. Les rsultats de cette tude de suite, incorporant toutes les espces asiatiques d'Oryza sauvage et un groupe divers de formes traditionellement cultives d' Oryza sativa, confirment le fait que le riz peut tre identifi avec un haut degrs d'assurance par la taille et les traits qualitatifs d'un phytolithe distinctif, la glume bidente. / [Abstract in Chinese] 
4254682|Spores of Rhizopus oligosporus, pregerminated 8-12 h on cooked white rice, were used to inoculate cooked soybeans, reducing the incubation time of the tempeh fermentation by up to 4 h. A potato extract-yeast extract-glucose broth containing germinated spores as inoculum for tempeh reduced incubation time by 4-5 h. Reduction of up to 17% of the tempeh fermentation time using spores pregerminated in a solid substrate may be of considerable economic value to soyfoods manufacturers.
4255543| To collect information regarding Paya plant use practices, especially ethnomedical applications, an ethnobotanical study was conducted at the Santa Mara del Carbn community in north-central Honduras. Scientific and Paya names have been provided for 68 plants used for medicine, 40 used for food, 23 used as sources of wood, 8 used for beverages, 7 used in artifact manufacture and 10 used in other ways. Also, a list of 25 species is included for which the Paya have a name but no known use. / En la comunidad de Santa Mara del Carbn localizada en la regin norcentral de Honduras, se realiz un estudio etnobotnico. El propsito del mismo fue recoger informacin sobre las prcticas nativas de los indgenas Paya relacionadas al uso de las plantas con especial nfasis en sus aplicaciones etnomdicas. En este trabajo se proporcionan los nombres cientficos y Payas para: 68 plantas utilazadas con propsitos medicinales, 40 como alimento, 23 como fuentes de madera, 8 para preparar bebidas, 7 para la fabricacin de artefactos y 10 con otros usos varios. Tambin se incluye una lista de 25 especies de las cuales los Paya nicamente les tienen un nombre aunque no se conoce su uso. 
4256682|The cultivation and utilization of two Perilla crops were surveyed in Asia. Perilla frutescens var. frutescens is essentially an oil crop and is now widely cultivated in China and Korea. Its seeds are also used as a flavor for traditional foods in Japan, Korea, China and Nepal. In Korea, leaves of var. frutescens are used as a fresh vegetable and for making pickles. Whereas P. frutescens var. crispa is a Chinese medicine and a fresh vegetable in the Far East, it has almost disappeared in many parts of Asia. Cultivation of var. crispa is still continued in Japan and Vietnam. In particular, it is cultivated in a large scale for coloring pickles in the areas where a large amount of plum pickles are produced in Japan. In China and Korea, it remains only as a relict form. Weedy plants of Perilla are found in Japan, Korea and China. We can classify them into two forms; one, which is closely related to var. frutescens, and the other, which is similar to var. crispa. We found P. citriodora and P. hirtella in Guandong and Jiangxi provinces of China, respectively. It is clear that they are not endemic to Japan. A phylogenetic tree of samples of two Perilla crops and their weedy forms based on RAPD markers revealed that the weedy forms similar to var. crispa and var. frutescens are genetically closely related to var. crispa and var. frutescens, respectively. Var. crispa and its closely related weedy form seem to be more primitive.
4255362| The horseradish tree (Moringa pterygosperma) is being introduced into drought-ridden lands to augment the local food and fodder supply. The tree grows up to 5 m per year. The foliage is high in calcium and has half the oxalates of amaranth. Seeds yield edible oil and the seed meal is used as fertilizer and as a coagulant to clarify turbid water. The philanthropic center, ECHO (Educational Concerns for Hunger Organization), North Fort Myers, Florida, receives many requests for seeds. A missionary in Mali wrote: "The seeds you sent arrived during the worst year of 14 years of dry weather. Only the moringa survived, and they have flourished." Another seed shipment resulted, after harvesting a crop, in 25 000 trees being planted by university students and faculty, around laborers' houses in Maranhao, Brazil. The tree is not limited to tropical lowlands, but thrives at elevations of 800-1200 m in protected mountain areas of southern Mexico. The long-range effects of ingesting various parts of the tree as food or folk-medicine need study. Attention should be given to horticultural improvement, perhaps through hybridization with one or more related species now being compared with M. pterygosperma in India and Africa. ///  , Moringa pterygosperma,           .    5   .           .                 .   ECHO (Educational Concern for Hunger Organization, North Fort Myers, Florida)      .      "   ,       14   .     .          25000           , .           800  1200       .              .       ,          ,     M. pterygosperma     . 
4251941|In 1943 the U. S. Federal Government erected a milkweed floss- and seed-extracting plant at Petoskey, Michigan, the only one of its kind in the world, and in one year this plant furnished to the armed forces two million pounds of milkweed floss that was used in lieu of kapok from Java in the manufacture of life-saving equipment. Two million pounds of seed and tons of fibers were by-products as potential commercial sources of oil and cellulose, respectively.
4254992|One of the most useful and widely grown palms in China is the windmill palm, Trachycarpus fortunei. It provides food for man and beast, fiber, structural materials, medicinal drugs, and a high grade of wax. The windmill palm, one of the hardiest of all palms, can be grown widely in subtropical and warm-temperate regions. It thus has the potential for production of unique palm products in regions where other palms will not grow.
4254572|A search of the ethnobotanical literature revealed wild grasses to be a major food of Southwestern Indians. Oryzopsis, Sporobolus and Panicum were shown to be especially important throughout the Southwest, though a large number of other genera were of local importance. Reasons for the preference of some species over others are discussed. The proportion of annual and perennial species used as food is equivalent to the proportions of annuals and perennials in the grass flora of the region.
4256815|This paper presents data on marketing, value addition and management concerns of the wild edible plants of the Sikkim Himalaya. At least 23 weekly markets, locally called 'Hats', have been identified in the state, and three markets, viz. Gangtok, Namchi and Singtam, were studied in detail, for one year, with reference to the availability, quantity sold and retailers involved with the marketing of wild edible species. A total of 44 wild edible species have been recorded to be sold annually in the three markets. Among all the species, Spondias axillaris was sold in highest quantity and more retailers were involved in its business than for any other wild edible plant. Other important species were Machilus edulis, Diplazium esculentum, Eleagnus latifolia, Dendrocalamus hamiltonii, Agaricus and Baccaurea sapida. The rural economics of wild edible plants is estimated to be some 140 tons per annum, and the prices for various species have increased over the years. At Gangtok, prices increased 3 to 6 times from 1981 to 1996-1997. Analysis of the field data showed that the wild edible plants were an important source of income to the plant dwellers and subsistence for farm families. Value addition was done to a few wild edible species, and cost-benefit analysis showed that the income from the fruits could be increased by at least 3-5 times after making pickles, squash and jam. It was recorded that plant dwellers have open access for the collection of these plant resources, which often leads to their over exploitation, and the local state government at present lacks policies and strategies for protecting and promoting wild edible plants in any of its programs. It is suggested that suitable conservation practices and policies need to be formulated to conserve these plants in the wild habitats within the state.
4255151| The use of natural dyes to color textiles and other objects has a long history in Andean South America, but has for the most part become a lost technology with the introduction of synthetic dyes. A literature and field survey to recover information about the traditional use of dye plants in Peru, from pre-Hispanic to recent times, was accompanied by taxonomic identification of collected dye plant materials. Fifty-six dye plants from Peruvian sources are listed. /// El uso de tintes naturales para teir telas y otros objetos tiene una larga historia en los andes sudamericanos, pero se ha perdido casi toda la tecnologa con la introduccin de los tintes sintticos. Un estudio de la literatura y trabajo de campo para recobrar informacin acerca del uso tradicional de las plantas tinctoreas peruanas, desde tiempos prehispanicos al presente, se acompaa con la identificacin taxonmica de las plantas tintoreas coleccionadas. Cincuentaiseis plantas tinctoreas de procedencia peruana son enumeradas. 
4252058|The first attempt on a large scale to meet the increasing shortage of food in the world, by developing hitherto undeveloped areas, is being carried out in East Africa, with emphasis so far on two oil-crops-peanuts and sunflower seed.
4256153| Research on the use of plants and other complementary medicines in Hawai'i drew our attention to Morinda citrifolia (Rubiaceae). Noni, as it is commonly known, is representative of both currently popular medicinal plants in Hawai'i and the pharmacopoeias of traditional cultures of this polyethnic population. It is also prominent among the increasing number of botanicals currently promoted by the "herbal" and "health foods/supplements" industry. Noni is unique in view of the large number of medical indications that characterize claims for its efficacy, the little that is known about its pharmacologic potential compared with other popularly used botanicals, and its rapidly evolving commercial success. This paper explores how the cultural novelty of noni, in conjunction with its equivocal pharmacology, contribute to its explosive market success in contemporary Hawai'i, and worldwide. /// I k mkou noi'i 'ana e pili ana i n l'au lapa'au o Hawai'i nei, ua hoihoi loa mkou i ka noni (Morinda citrifolia, Rubiaceae). He mea ho'ohlikelike maika'i ka noni o n l'au lapa'au ma'amau o Hawai'i i kia mau l, a me n l'au ku'una o kekahi mau po'e ' a'e e noho ana ma'anei n ho'i. Kaulana ka noni mawaena o n l'au ho'opi'i 'ia e ka 'oihana "'ai olakino." Lua 'ole ka noni no n mea penei: n 'ano ma'i he nui "ho'la" 'ia e ka noni; ka 'ike hemahema o kona mau kemika; a me kona holomua 'imi kl. I kia pepa, h'ike mkou i ka mana'o hou e pili ana i kia l'au "ku'una", kona kemika kklule, a me kona makemake nui 'ia i kia au ma Hawai'i a kahi '. 
41408235|Despite the availability of synthetic dyes and the impact of significant religious, social, and economic change, textile weavers in more remote areas of Indonesia continue naturally dyed textile production as a living tradition. This paper documents mordant plants in Sulawesi, West Kalimantan, and nine islands in eastern Indonesia (Bali, Flores, Java, Lembata, Nusa Penida, Rai Jua, Savu, Sumba, and West Timor). These plants, such as various Symplocos species, are hyperaccumulators of aluminum compounds. Other plants used as sources of alkaline ash, of saponifiable oils and fats and for ritual purposes in the dyeing process, are also recorded. Ditengah maraknya pemakaian warna sintetis serta terjadinya perubahan dalam keyakinan, keadaan sosial dan ekonomi, penenun di beberapa daerah terpencil tetap memproduksi kain warna alam sebagai sebuah tradisi. Jurnal ini membahas tumbuhan mordant atau perekat warna serta tantangan yang dihadapi dalam pemakaiannya di daerah Sulawesi dan Kalimantan serta di sembilan pulau lain di Indonesia mencakup Bali, Flores, Jawa, Lembata, Nusa Penida, Rai Jua, Sabu, Sumba dan Timor Barat. Tumbuhan mordant yang dibahas, seperti Symplocos, menganndung zat aluminum yang tinggi. Tumbuhan lain yang dipergunakan sebagai sumber abu alkali, minyak dan lemak saponifiable, serta yang dipakai dalam ritual proses mordant juga dibahas dalam artikel ini.
4255332| Most research on house gardens suggests that this agricultural production type reaches its greatest development in areas of high population density. Gardens in low density areas such as the Amazon Basin have, to date, attracted little attention. A sample of house gardens in a ribereo village of the Peruvian Amazon is described and their great species diversity and variability in size and composition are discussed. The processes by which gardens in the village evolve and change are outlined. The study indicates that many young people of the village have a continuing interest in maintaining complex house gardens. More research on Amazonian house gardens is urged. /// Estudios cientficos recientes indican que las huertas estan mas desarollados en reas con densidades poblacionales altas. Huertas en reas con pocos habitantes, como en la cuenca Amaznica, hasta ahora han recibido muy poca atencin cientfica. En este trabajo se describe un muestreo de huertas en un pueblo ribereo en la Amazona Peruana, y se discuta la diversidad de especies presentes, y la gran variabilidad en rea y composicin. En este trabajo tambien se describe la evolucin de las huertas en el pueblo. Nuestro estudio indica que muchos moradores jvenes del pueblo mantienen su interes en las huertas complejas. Mayor investigacin cientfica sobre las huertas Amazonicas es necesaria. 
4255292| Excavations for the Boston subway system early in this century and later for building sites revealed the presence of waterlogged wood in the peat and silt deep beneath the present surface. Beginning more than 50 yr ago, the investigation of geological and biological materials recovered from these sites, especially the wood remains, believed to have been set in place by prehistoric Native Americans, became a benchmark for the multidisciplinary application of scientific methods in archaeology and environmental reconstruction. Recent excavations for building foundations in Boston have exposed additional wooden materials. We have analyzed 216 specimens recently recovered from an excavation at 500 Boylston Street where older office buildings were demolished to make way for a new commercial structure. Although some of our findings differ from those of the previous investigators we find support for the earlier supposition that the remains represent an ancient Native American fishweir, a fencelike barrier and trap for fish on an ancient shoreline. /// Le percement du mtro de Boston au dbut du sicle, puis plus tard les chantiers de construction ont rvl la prsence de bois imprgn d'eau dans la tourbe et la vase du sous-sol actuel. Des recherches commences il y a plus de cinquante ans sur des matriaux de nature gologique et biologique retrouvs dans ces sites, et surtout sur des restes de bois placs l par des Indiens prhistoriques, sont devenues le banc d'essai pour l'application de mthodes scientifiques pluridisciplinaires en archologie et en reconstitution du milieu cologique. Des excavations rcentes ncessites par les fondations d'immeubles  Boston ont mis  jour d'autres matriaux en bois. Nous avons analys plus de 216 spcimens rcemment retrouvs dans un chantier au 500 de la rue Boylston o de vieux immeubles de bureaux ont t dtruits pour faire place  un nouveau complexe commercial. Bien que certains de nos rsultats s'loignent de ceux de chercheurs antrieurs, nous sommes conforts dans notre hypothse initiale selon laquelle ces restes reprsentent une ancienne trappe  poissons, une sorte de barrire pour attraper les poissons sur ce qui tait anciennement le littoral. 
4251874|The roots of this tropical vine are the source of the valuable insecticide rotenone, non-toxic to humans, and were imported into the United States in 1946 from Brazil and Peru, from both wild and cultivated material, to the extent of more than 11 million pounds.
4255521|Mudumalai is biologically rich with a wealth of plant and animal life. Increasing human numbers and current patterns of non-timber forest product, fodder and fuelwood extraction threaten the integrity of the ecosystem. Change in management of the protected areas that include the Mudumalai region is needed. In particular, policies relating to grazing and basic energy requirements need to be reexamined. At the same time, mechanisms must be developed to increase rural incomes using means other than exploitation of natural resources.
4255576| We describe the traditional production system of the root of jalapa, Ipomoea purga, in Xico, Veracruz, Mexico. The results are based on open interviews with the producers to gather information on the development of this crop in the area, and observation of the production system. The production cycle is carried out between July and February. We found that seed scarification is the key to the success of the productive system, obtaining a maximum of 95% seed germination in eight days. This activity, as well as seed collection and the driving of stakes into the ground for plant support, requires a considerable input of man-power. It is an intensive farming process, the cultivated area per farmer varies between 300 m
4257221|The Doctrine of Signatures (DOS) is found throughout the world. Most scholars dismiss it as a "primitive" or "prescientific" idea. Despite its long history, the doctrine has had little critical review. A careful evaluation of signatures suggests four things. (1) There is no evidence that morphological plant signatures ever led to the discovery of medicinal properties. Considering DOS in this manner is unproductive and largely untestable. (2) Signatures are post hoc attributions rather than a priori clues to the utility of medicinal plants. (3) It is productive to redefine signatures to include organoleptic properties associated with therapeutic value. Plants with strong odors or bitter tastes, for example, commonly are found in pharmacopoeias. (4) DOS should be considered for what it primarily is-a way of disseminating information. DOS fundamentally is a mnemonic and, therefore, is exceedingly valuable in traditional cultures.
4253212|It is known that the Coast Salish Indians of Vancouver Island used 122 species of plants. Means of collection, preparation, and utilization of these plants are outlined. The role of plants in Salish culture and economy for food, technology, medicine, religion, recreation, linguistics, and migration and settlement patterns is discussed. When possible, phonetic transcriptions are given of Salish names of plants. The ethnobotanies of the Island and related Salish and other Northwest Coast Indian groups are briefly compared. Sixty percent of the plants used by the Western Washington Salish and 20% of the species used by the Thompson Interior Salish were used similarly by the Island Salish. It is concluded that these differences are mainly the result of differences in regional vegetation, extent of trade and inter-group communications, similarity of cultural traits, and the degree of secrecy surrounding use. A map shows the territory of the Vancouver Island Salish and linguistic subdivisions. Summaries of plant uses are given in an Appendix.
4287768|About 50,000,000 brooms are manufactured annually in the United States from the long fibrous branches in the inflorescences of this corn-like crop.
4253157|The uses of 26 medicinal plants found in Namosi Village, Viti Levu are listed. Included are the plant parts used, Namosi names, the illnesses, and the preparations of the remedies.
4255913| For cassava (Manihot esculenta Euphorbiaceae), results from field collection, semistructured interviews, phenetic and cluster analyses, and Global Information Systems (GIS) indicate that cassava phenotypes vary with elevation and topography, but less with soils or pests and diseases. Amuesha women with a sense of tradition maintain many cassava varieties along with associated myths, songs, names and indigenous production. The shaman plays a key role in breeding new and maintaining traditional cassava germplasm, while the rest of the tribe nurtures cassava germplasm dynamics through collecting, trading, stealing, maintaining favored cassava varieties, and purging the less desirable. The future of cassava diversity is of concern to some Amuesha as production and market interests surmount more traditional attention to variety. /// Resultados de colectas de campo, entrevistas semi-estructuradas, analisis fenetica y de conglomerados y sistemas de informacion geografica indican que fenotipos de yuca (Manihot esculenta Euphorbiaceae) varan con altura y topografa, pero menos con suelos o plagas insectiles y enfermidades. Las mujeres Amuesha, arraigadas en sus tradiciones indgenas, conservan muchas variedades como parte de un mundo cultural de canciones, mitos, nombres de variedades y mtodos tradicionales de uso alrededor de la yuca. El curandero tiene un papel clave en seleccionar nuevas variedades y mantener variedades tradicionales, mientras una buena parte de todos los Amuesha cuidan la dinmica del germoplasma de yuca colectando, intercambiando, prestando sin permiso, manteniendo las mejores variedades y abandonando las variedades no-deseadas. El futuro de la biodiversidad de la yuca is una preocupacin de algunos (as) Amuesha por la creciente importancia de criterios de mercado y de productividad en vez de la atencin tradicional a la misma biodiversidad. 
4255609| The history of hops, hopped beer, and hop cultivation is unclear and ambiguous. An assessment of the available literature reveals many contradictions, especially regarding the first use of hops in beer and the earliest incidence of hop cultivation. Historically, hops were used for a variety of purposes; now their primary use is as a preservative and flavoring in beer. Hop cultivation is poorly documented, but was certainly undertaken by the 10th century, most probably in response to the demand generated by beer-brewing. After comparing the literature and investigating source material, a chronology of hop use in beer and hop cultivation is proposed. / La littrature crite sur l'histoire du houblon, son utilisation pour la brasserie, et la cultivation de la plante est imprcise et ambige. Une tude de la documentation existante rvle de nombreuses contradictions, surtout sur le sujet de la premire utilisation du houblon dans la bire, compar avec la date de la premire culture de la plante. Historiquement, le houblon fut utilis a des fins diverses; par le suite, son usage principal fut comme agent de consrvation et de got. La culture du houblon est pauvrement documente, mais tait certainement enterprise  partir du dixime sicle, mais en rponse plus probablement  de la demande gnre par la brasserie de la bire. En avoir men des recherches des sources littraires, c'est--dire des sources originelles ainsi que des sources secondaires, on se propose donc  faire une chronologie de l'emploi du houblon dans la fabrication de la bire ainsi que dans la cultivation du houblon. 
4255269| The genus Phaseolus (Fabaceae) consists of some 50 species, all of which are distributed in the Americas. Four of these contain cultigens. P. vulgaris (common bean), P. lunatus (lima bean), P. acutifolius (tepary bean), P. coccineus subsp. coccineus (runner bean); and P. coccineus subsp. polyanthus (no English vernacular name). Biochemical markers - phaseolin seed storage protein and isozymes - have provided new evidence on the organization of the first three species. Domestication has possibly caused a strong reduction in genetic diversity in P. vulgaris and P. acutifolius. Both P. vulgaris and P. lunatus cultivars result from at least two independent domestications, in Mesoamerica and in the Andes. These two species consist of two gene pools, each of which includes wild ancestors and their respective cultivated descendants. Our findings suggest the need for additional emphasis on genetic conservation of wild ancestors and their use in breeding programs and for a comparison of inter-gene pool vs. intra-gene pool crosses in breeding programs. /// El gnero Phaseolus consta de unas 50 especies, distribuidas exclusivamente en las Amricas; cuatro de estas especies incluyen a formas cultivadas: P. vulgaris (frijol comn), P. lunatus (frijol lima), P. acutifolius (frijol tepari o escomite), P. coccineus subsp. coccineus (frijol ayocote), y P. coccineus subsp. polyanthus (frijol acalete). El uso de marcadores bioqumicos - faseolina e isozimas - ha producido nueva informacin acerca de la distribucin de la variabilidad gentica en las tres primeras especies. El proceso de domesticacin caus una reduccin marcada en la variabilidad gentica para faseolina en P. vulgaris y P. acutifolius. Las formas cultivadas de P. vulgaris y P. lunatus resultaron de por lo menos dos domesticaciones distintas, en Mesoamrica y en los Andes. Estas dos especies constan de dos grupos de genotipos, cada cual incluye tanto a las formas silvestres ancestrales como a sus progenies cultivadas respectivas. Nuestros resultados sugieren que se ponga ms enfasis tanto en la recoleccin y la preservacin del germoplasma silvestre ancestral como en su uso en programas de mejoramiento; tambin sugieren que se compare en forma ms detenida las cruzas entre grupos de genotipos con las cruzas adentro de estos grupos. 
4252704| Ten accessions of seed of the genus Limnanthes, representing seven species and their varieties, were tested for germination at temperatures of 40, 50, 60, 70 F, and at room temperature varying from 72-78 F. Four of the ten accessions germinated best at 40, three at 50, and three at 60 F. Germination was relatively poor at 70 F and almost zero at room temperature. The total germination averaged over all accessions was about the same for both 40 F and 50 F, slightly less for 60 F. Seeds at 60 F reached a peak in germination rate in four days; those at 50 F required six days; those at 40 F required 11 days. Seeds, started at room temperature and moved to 50 F 15 days later, attained only about half the total germination of a similar group of seeds originlly started at 50 F. Some of the species tested germinated almost equally well at 40, 50, or 60 F; others germinated best only at, or near, one of these temperatures. Substantially all of the seeds that germinated over a period of 50 days did so in less than 30 days; most of these germinated in the first 14 days. 
4255033|Numerical studies of morphological data and starch gel electrophoresis have provided a new perspective on important issues pertinent to the origin(s) and subsequent evolution of domesticated Cucurbita pepo. Wild C. texana and/or C. fraterna appear to be the most likely candidates for progenitor(s) of the domesticate. Populations of texana-like plants from beyond Texas share various attributes with Texas populations, suggesting that C. texana once had a more widespread distribution to the northeast. The possibility exists that C. pepo was domesticated independently in eastern U.S., as well as in Mexico, which is in line with recent archeological findings. Multiple domestications are also supported by allozyme data indicating a substantial divergence within the species. A new classification consisting of C. pepo ssp. pepo (origins in Mexico), C. pepo ssp. ovifera var. ovifera (origins in eastern U.S.), and C. pepo ssp. ovifera var. texana (spontaneous populations in eastern U.S.) is proposed.
4287786|From the secretly prepared chocolate-flavoring condiment of the Aztec emperor, Montezuma, to the ice cream-flavoring ingredient of today, vanilla has for four centuries been an important item in the spice trade of the world. Originally Mexican, about 90% of the world's 1,000 annual metric tons of vanilla "beans" come from Madagascar, nearly 50% of which are consumed in the United States.
4252384|Several species of Coprinus mushrooms have been utilized as food, yet reports indicate that 1 of these may produce toxic symptoms when ingested along with alcohol. At the present time, several substances have been implicated as the causative agent of these untoward reactions. Tryptophan and tryptamine have been identified in 3 species of this genus, found growing in Rhode Island, and the amount of tryptamine present in 2 of these species of fungi has been determined.
4256708| During the 17th century, Finnmark suffered the worst witch trials on record in Norway; at least 137 persons were tried, and about two-thirds were executed. A late 17th century manuscript by district governor H. H. Lilienskiold provides details of 83 trials based on contemporaneous sources. More than half of these provide evidence of a potentially important role of ergotism in triggering persecutions. In 42 trials, it is explicitly stated that witchcraft was "learned" by consuming it, usually in the form of bread or other flour products (17 cases), in milk or beer (23 cases), or a combination (two cases). In the cases involving milk, several witches testifed that some kind of black, grain-like objects were found in the drink. Medical symptoms compatible with ergotism were recorded in numerous trials, including gangrene, convulsions, and hallucinations; the latter often explicitly stated to occur after consumption of foodstuffs or drink. The majority of the convicted witches were females of Norwegian ethnic origin, living in coastal communities where imported flour formed part of the diet. The few, largely self-supporting Smi affected by the witchcraft trials were mainly men, convicted, for example, carrying out traditional shamanic rituals. All flour available in Finnmark during the late 17th century was imported. Rye (Secale cereale), which is especially prone to ergot infection, formed a major part of the imported grain. 
4256174| There is an urgent need to obtain information on the relative importance of a taxon used medicinally as compared to others within the same culture. This was achieved through a documentation of the current indigenous medical uses of 320 species in three Yucatec Maya communities during 18 months of fieldwork. The 1549 individual reports documented were divided into nine groups, which classify indigenous uses. The frequency of usage of the individual plants reported was employed in the analysis of the ethnobotanical importance of the respective taxa. Species cited more frequently in a group of indigenous uses are regarded to be of greater ethnobotanical importance than those cited only by a few informants. In order to obtain information on possible biological, pharmacological and toxicological effects of some particularly important species, the scientific literature on these taxa was evaluated systematically. The study is the basis for phytochemical and pharmacological evaluations of the traditional uses. /// Se considera esencial la documentacin de la importancia relativa que un taxon de uso medicinal tiene, en comparacin con otros taxones dentro de una misma cultura. Con este propsito se realiz un estudio etnobotnico de 18 meses, investigando el uso de 320 especies en tres comunidades Mayas del Estado de Yucatn (Mxico). Se documentaron 1549 usos indgenas, que se clasificaron en 9 grupos. Se utiliz el nmero de usos indgenas para determinar la importancia relativa de cada especie; as, las especies medicinales que fueron citadas con mayor frecuencia se consideran las de mayor importancia, mientras que las especies citadas con menor frecuencia son las de menor importancia. Para evaluar los usos indgenas se obtuvo informacin sobre efectos biolgicos, farmacolgicos y toxicolgicos de las especies, atravs de una revisin sistemtica de la literatura cientfica. Este estudio es la base para la seleccin de plantas que se evaluarn en estudios fitoqumicos y farmacolgicos. 
4252048|The utilization of heterosis in first generation hybrids constitutes one of the more important contributions of plant breeding to agricultural production. Heterosis is pronounced in interspecific hybrids of Gossypium and is manifest in certain intraspecific crosses. The utilization of hybrid vigor in the commercial production of cotton is a current problem of much interest.
4256548|Edible shoots of rattans are traditionally viewed as non timber forest products. However, in Thailand and Lao PDR (Laos) several shoot-bearing species have recently been adopted as crop plants. This new industry is little known outside the region. A description is given of the process of adoption and the characteristics of the species involved, focussing on Calamus tenuis Roxb., the main species planted in Laos. Likely factors triggering domestication and some probable future developments are outlined. It is suggested that other wild species in the region are also likely to be suitable for domestication, and that this example lends weight to arguments in favor of conserving wild species. The implications of market competition between wild-harvested and farm-grown shoots are discussed.
4253977|A nutrient analysis of water hyacinths grown in sewage wastewaters was conducted. Crude protein averaged 32.9% dry weight in the leaves, where it was most concentrated. The amino acid content of water hyacinth leaves was found to compare favorably with that of soybean and cottonseed meal. The vitamin and mineral content of dried water hyacinths met or exceeded the FAO recommended daily allowance, in many cases. It is concluded that in favorable climatic zones, water hyacinths grown in enriched mediums, such as sewage lagoons, could potentially serve as a substantial dietary supplement or nutrient source.
4287808|The enormous and self-replenishing supplies-perhaps 200 or 300 million tons-of these seaweeds in the oceans of the world have been commercially exploited so far primarily in the production of alginic acid, but the other carbohydrates, proteins, lipids, vitamins, enzymes and antibacterial substances in them and discussed here may hold even greater values.
4255613|There are 25 genera and 76 species of economically important marine algae found in the Hengchun Peninsula. The greatest number of useful species is found in the Rhodophyta. Sargassum is the most common genus of the Phaeophyta and has the largest biomass and the widest distribution, but fewer useful species. The local people harvest seaweeds from natural beds for food, fodder, fish bait, fertilizer and medical purposes. However, only a few of the available seaweeds are used and in small quantities. Most of the species are seasonal and more abundant in spring and winter than in the summer. Four genera, Sargassum, Enteromorpha, Ulva and Codium have large standing crops and are widely distributed in the coastal water. Production of the other genera is lower. There are many other useful seaweeds present in this area, some of which are also used as landscape plants in aquaria and as fertilizer in horticulture. The potential commercial uses for Halymenia microcarpa are also briefly discussed.
4255368| As a prelude to domestication efforts, variation of agronomic traits was determined among accessions of the polytypic, xerophytic cucurbit, coyote gourd [Cucurbita digitata subsp. digitata (DIG), palmata (PAL), cylindrata (CYL), and cordata (COR)] and among and within their progeny. Oil content in 60 accession seed lots (x = 27.8%, CV 21.4%) was more variable than protein content (x = 33.1%, CV = 13.5%). Punicic acid (c,t,c-9,11,13-octadecatrienoic acid) levels in seed oils were also variable (x = 12.0%, CV = 20.6%) among accession seed lots. Substantial differences among and within subspecies were noted in 40 progeny lines for fruit/plant (x = 55.2, CV = 47.5%), seed wt/plant (x = 0.89 kg, CV = 51.1%), seed wt/fruit (x = 17.4 g, CV = 39.8%), seed no./fruit (x = 356, CV = 30.8%), 100-seed wt (x = 4.8 g, CV = 21.6%) and fruit diameter (x = 77 mm, CV 4.8%). Correlations among parameters suggested selection for fruit/plant to be the most effective primary strategy for seed yield improvement, but among high fruit-yielders, selection for seed wt/fruit was also important. The two subspecies PAL and CYL exhibited superior seed wts/plant. CYL types matured high fruit-loads, but their fruits were smaller and contained a smaller number of lighter seed than PAL or PAL hybrids. In contrast, PAL and PAL hybrids displayed lower fruit-yields/plant but their fruits were larger and contained higher seed wts/fruit than their CYL counterparts. Root wt/plant was also variable (x = 1.55 kg, CV = 63.2%). Roots of DIG were larger and less branched than those of other subspecies. Proximate and liquid chromatographic analyses of selected accession seed lots and controlled crosses failed to reveal advantages for the inclusion of specific types in a breeding program for the development of high oil or high/low punicic acid lines. /// Como un preludio a los esfuerzos de domesticacin, se determin la variacin de caracteres agronmicos entre ejemplares del politipo de cucurbitas xerofitas, "calabacillas coyote" [Cucurbita digitata subspp. digitata (DIG), palmata (PAL), cylindrata (CYL), y cordata (COR)] asi como en y entre su progenie. El contenido de aceite en 60 lotes de semillas de los ejemplares (x = 27.8%, CV = 21.4%) fu ms variable que el contenido protico (x = 33.1%, CV = 13.5%). Los niveles de cido puncico (c,t,c-9,11,13-cido octadecatrienico) en los aceites de las semillas fureon tambin muy diversos y variables (x = 12%, CV = 20.6%), entre los lotes de semillas de la coleccin. Se apreciaron diferencias substanciales entre y dentro de las subespecies en las 40 lneas de progenie para la relacin fruto/planta (x = 55.2, CV = 47.5%), peso de semilla/planta (x = 0.89 kg, CV = 51.1%), peso de semilla/fruto (x = 17.4 g, CV = 21.6%), nmero de semillas/fruto (x = 356, CV = 30.8%), peso de 100 semillas (x = 4.8 g, CV = 21.6%) y dimetro de fruto (x = 77 mm, CV = 4.8%). Las correlaciones entre los parmetros sugieren que seleccionar por la relacin fruto/planta, sera la estrategia primaria ms efectiva para fines de mejorameiento en el aspecto de rendimiento de semilla, pero entre los productores de fruta, seleccionar por la relacin peso de semilla/fruto, es tambin importante. Las dos subespecies, PAL y CYL mostraron una relacin peso de semilla/planta superior. Los tipos CYL maduraron altos lotes de fruto, pero los frutos eran mas pequeos y contenan un menor nmero de semilla liviana que aquellos del tipo PAL o sus hbridos. En contraste, PAL y sus hbridos tuvieron menores rendimientos de fruta/planta pero los frutos fueron ms grandes y con una relacin peso de semilla/fruto mayor que en el caso de CYL. El peso radicular/planta tambin vari (x = 1.55 kg, CV = 63.2%). Las raices de DIG fueron mayores y menos ramificadas que aquellas de otras subespecies. Los anlisis proximales y de cromatografa lquida de lotes especficos de semillas de la coleccin no revelaron ninguna ventaja para la inclusin de tipos especficos en un programa de mejoramiento para el desarrollo de lneas con alto contenido de aciete o alto/bajo cido puncico. 
4252474|Substances which agglutinate red blood cells are widely distributed in nature, particularly in the seeds of leguminous plants. Some of these have been isolated in a high state of purity and carefully studied with respect to their chemical and physical properties, immunological behavior, and toxicological effects on animals. Of these, the hemagglutinins of the castor bean, jack bean, soybean, and varieties of Phaseolus vulgaris have received the most attention. The possible nutritional significance of those hemagglutinins which are found in edible legumes is discussed. A mechanism is proposed to explain the nature of the interaction of hemagglutinins with red blood cells, and their possible function in the plant.
4255394| Reported economic uses of Clitoria (Leguminosae) are summarized based upon literature reports and label data obtained from examination of over 8000 herbarium vouchers. Reports are categorized by economic use. Most reports are for an African species, C. ternatea, presently distributed throughout the tropics. Economic data for 23 species are reported, many for the first time. /// Los usos econmicos de Clitoria (Leguminosae) son reportados en este trabajo basados en los informes de la literatura cientfica y los datos obtenidos de las etiquetas de ms de 8000 registros de herbario. Los informes son categorizados por uso econmico. La mayora de los informes corresponden a la especia africana, C. ternatea, distribuida en todos los trpicos. Muchos de los datos econmicos de las 23 especies son reportados por primera vez. 
4255808| Based on independent interviews with 25 persons we report 44 edible species of plants used by the Batemi of Sale Division, Ngorongoro District, Tanzania. Thirty-one of these are specifically consumed as food; six species are chewed as thirst quenchers; seven species of gums and resins are chewed; two species are added to food as flavorants; and one species is used in the preparation of honey beer. We report 8 species used as tooth brushes by the Batemi. An additional 35 species of food and beverage plants were observed under cultivation by the Batemi. With these plants the Batemi ingest phytochemicals in a manner that could have positive health effects. /// A partir d'entrevues indpendentes avec 25 personnes, nous avons document 44 plantes comestibles utilises par les Batmis du district de Ngorongoro, Tanzanie. Trente-et-une de ces plantes sont consommes comme aliment; six espces sont mastiques pour pallier  la soif; sept espces de gomme et de rsine sont mastiques; deux espces sont ajoutes  la nourriture pour en rehausser le got; et une espce est utilise dans la fabrication de l'hydromel. Nous rapportons huit espces utilises comme brosses  dents par les Batmis. De plus, 35 espces de plantes sont documentes sous culture par les Batmis  des fins de consommation comme aliment ou boisson. A l'aide de ces plantes les Batmis ingrent des agents phytochimiques qui pourraient avoir des effets positifs sur la sant. 
4256228| Pedistylis galpinii and Erianthemum dregei produce woodrose outgrowths at attachment points with host trees. In some rural areas of southern Africa, woodroses are sold as curios. The socio-economics related to woodrose harvesters were investigated via interview schedules and field survey. Harvesting is not detrimental to hosts as only branches infected with mistletoes are cut. Over half the harvesters interviewed reported harvesting both live and dead mistletoes while 20% used only dead ones. The density of dead mistletoes could satisfy present demand. Such sustainable harvesting practices (only using dead woodroses) allow for woodrose harvesting according to calculated quotas. The median gross income per month generated from woodroses was estimated to be between US $38 and 90. Eleven percent of harvesters relied on woodroses as their only source of income. Marketing was relatively haphazard, involving informal selling at roadsides and unscheduled visits to retailers. The market for woodroses can be expanded and the potential exists to increase supply considerably on a sustainable basis. /// Pedistylis galpinii und Erianthemum dregei bilden an ihrer Verbindungsstelle mit dem Wirtsbaum eine Holzrose als Auswudis. In manchen Gegenden werden die Holzrosen als kunstwerke verkauft und stellen fr die lndliche Bevlkerung im sdlichen Afrika eine Einkommensquelle dar. Die Sozio-konomischen Aspekte der Holzrosen sammler wurden an hand von Fragebgen bearbeitet und auf Studienreisen erforsdit. Die Erntemethoden der Holzrosen sind lebenserhaltend. Die Mistel-Wirtszweige werden vom wirtsbaum abgeschnitten und somit bleibt der wirtsbaum erhalten. Mehr als die Hlfte der befragten Sammler gaben an lebende sowohl auch tote Misteln zu ernten; whrend 20% der Sammler nur tote Misteln auswhlten. Das durch die Holzrosen erwirtschaftete monatliche Einkommen wird auf zwischen US $38 und US $90 geschtzt. Fr 11% der befragten Sammler sind Holzrosen die einzigste Einnahmequelle. Die Vermarktang der Holzrosen findet inoffiziell am Strassenrand statt oder wird bei gelegentlichem besuch der sammler an Eizelhndler von kunswerken verkauft. Der Markt fr Holzrosen kann erweitert werden und es besteht die Mglidikeit die stetige verschaffung der Holzrosen der marktnachfrage anzupassen. 
4254986| Odontocarya asarifolia (Menispermaceae), a medium-sized liana, grows in semiarid woods of the western central Chaco region, Argentina and Paraguay. Sharply contrasting with the well-known medicinal and toxic properties of many taxa in the family, the stems of this plant are cooked and consumed by several Indian ethnic groups of the region (Mataco, Choroti, Toba-Pilag, Chulup, and Pilag). Collection, preparation, and consumption of the plant are described. Vernacular names, a summary of the several curious Indian myths concerning the origin of this creeper, an illustrated anatomical description of the stem, and some ecological and morphological data are provided. 
4257114|Tibetan medicine historically has had multiple medical lineages, despite ancient, shared literary medical canons. However, since the second half of the 20th century in Tibet, increasing state control and commoditization has lead to centralization and standardization of Tibetan medicine. Here we investigate how much variation in the use of medicinal plants remains in contemporary Tibetan medicine. Medicinal plants used and/or sold by fifteen Tibetan medical institutions, markets, and doctors, as well as two additional non-Tibetan markets, are inventoried and vouchered (where allowed). The data are ordered by Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling. Four distinct groups are defined: (1) government recognized Tibetan medical institutions and their disciples both in Lhasa and elsewhere, (2) local herbal doctors near Mt. Khawa Karpo, eastern Himalayas, (3) Tibetan medicinal markets in Lhasa and near Mt. Khawa Karpo, and (4) non-Tibetan medicinal markets near Dali and Kunming, Yunnan. This clearly documents the plurality of Tibetan medical traditions-official, local, and market-while differentiating these from non-Tibetan markets.
4254428|The origin and application of the name broccoli are discussed and a distinction between cauliflower and broccoli is proposed, based on their relative ontogeny at marketable maturity. The history and evolution of broccoli is considered in relation to cauliflower and its diversification into annual and biennial types is discussed. White-sprouting broccoli is considered to be closely related to English winter-hardy cauliflower. Calabrese, though representing only a small part of the italica gene pool, has been the most intensively developed, being currently represented by many cultivars, including F
4252521|A further 542 species of plants, belonging to 295 genera from 89 families, have been screened for the presence of alkaloids and saponins. 101 Species (19%) afforded positive alkaloid tests and 77 species (14%) positive saponin tests.
4255018|Two species are included in barnyard millet: Echinochloa utilis and E. frumentacea. These differ from each other in their genomic constitution and phylogeny. The former species originated from E. crus-galli probably in eastern Asia, and is grown in Japan, Korea, and the northeastern part of China; the latter originated from E. colona probably in tropical Asia, and is grown in Pakistan, India, and Nepal. "Japanese barnyard millet" is suggested as a suitable English common name for E. utilis; "Indian barnyard millet," for E. frumentacea. In the past, Japanese barnyard millet was important in Japan as the staple food crop in districts where soil, weather conditions and irrigation systems were not suitable for paddy rice cultivation. When the rice crop suffered serious cool weather damage, the millet relieved people from starvation, especially in northeastern Japan. But the acreage devoted to the millet gradually decreased during and after the 1880s. Only the northern part of Iwate Prefecture is an exclusive Japanese barnyard millet cropping region at present. The breeding of cool-weather-resistant rice varieties and improvements in rice-growing techniques are mainly responsible for the decrease in acreage of the millet.
4255775| The use of Corchorus tridens for food and medicine is popular among rural communities in the Eastern Transvaal lowveld of South Africa. Its prolific seed production, spontaneous germination, and distribution in water stressed regions suggest that cultivation of this species could be feasible. A study was initiated to investigate this. Seed coat scarification improved the percentage of germination by almost 30%. A high temperature range (15-30C) increased germination relative to a low temperature range (10-20C). A factorial experiment consisting of three nitrogen forms (ammonium sulphate, potassium nitrate and a 1:1 mixture of these) and three levels of irrigation (at 35%, 50% and 75% field capacity) was conducted. Productivity improved mostly with nitrate fertiliser, followed by a nitrate-ammonium mixture and lastly with ammonium applications. The nitrogen form and water treatment did not significantly increase total dry weight production, mean relative growth rates or root:shoot ratios. / In der laendlichen Bevoelkerung der Oestlichen Transvaal-Ebene in Suedafrika wird Corchorus tridens seit langem und gerne als Nahrungsmittel und Heilkraut verwendet. Reiche Samenproduktion, spontane Keimung und Vorkommen in wasserarmen Gegenden legen es nahe, die Kultivierung von Corchorus zu versuchen, um das Angebot zu vergroessern. Eine Studie wurde angelegt, um diese Moeglichkeit zu erforschen, mit den folgenden Ergebnissen: Aufritzen der Samenkapsel fuehrte zu einer 30% hoeheren Anzahl von keimenden Samen. Waermere Temperaturen (15-30C) fuehrten ebenfalls zu besseren Keimzahlen im Vergleich zu kuehleren Temperaturen (10-20C). Zusaetzlich wurde experimentiert mit Zugabe von Stickstoff in drei verschiedenen Formen (Ammoniumsulfat, Potassiumnitrat und einem 1:1 Gemisch aus beiden), und mit Wassergabe, die zu drei verschiedenen Saettigungsgraden im Boden fuehtre: 35%, 50% und 75%. Messungen des Trockengewichts ergaben, dass der groesste Produktionszuwachs mit Potassiumnitrat erreicht werden konnte, gefolgt vom Nitratgemisch, und am wenigsten durch Ammoniumgabe. Jedoch wurden Trockengewicht, durchschnittliche Wachstumsraten und Wurzel-Spross Verhaeltnisse nicht in signifikanter Hoehe durch die verschiedenen Nitrat- und Wassergaben veraendert. 
4256097| Guarans, the carbonated beverages (sodas) of choice throughout much of Brazil, are mandated by Brazilian law to contain at least 300 mg guaran (Paullinia cupana, Sapindaceae) seed per 100 ml soda. Were all the soda manufacturers adhering to the law, they would be consuming almost three times the annual production of seed. Guaran seeds contain unusually high levels of caffeine, along with smaller amounts of the related purine alkaloids theobromine and theophylline. We investigated the purine alkaloid content of three ethnobotanical guaran collections and 39 commercial products using HPLC/UV. Many of the products did contain caffeine as the major alkaloid, with traces of theobromine and theophylline. Numerous sodas and syrups contained up to ten times more theobromine than caffeine, and we suspect that these products were adulterated with cacao (Theobroma cacao, Sterculiaceae), the major source of theobromine. /// O guaran, refrigerante preferido em boa parte do Brasil,  obrigado por li a conter no mnimo 300 mg de semente de guaran (Paullinia cupana, Sapindaceae) por 100 ml de refrigerante. Se todos os fabricantes seguissem esta li eles estariam consumindo quase trs vezes a produo anual de sementes. As sementes de guaran usualmente contm altos nveis de cafena e pequenas quantidades de outras duas substncias relacionadas, os alkalides teobromina e teofilina. O contedo do alkalide purina foi pesquisado em trs amostras etnobotnicas de guaran e 39 produtos comerciais usando HPLC/UV. Muitos destes produtos contm a cafena como o alkalide principal, com traos de teobromina e teofilina. Algumas refrigerantes e xaropes releveram um contedo de at dez vezes mais teobromina que cafena e suspeita-se que estes produtos foram adulterados com cacau (Theobroma cacao, Sterculiaceae), a principal fonte de teobromina. 
4256358| The edible fruits of Spondias purpurea are valued highly throughout the Ecuadorian coastal plain and Andes where they are cultivated. They are also exported to Colombia and Peru. The fruits are either eaten fresh or processed into various products such as marmalade, wine, and liquor, all with promising market potential. This paper describes the annual cultivation cycle including, propagation, harvest and processing, yields, and socioeconomic importance of the fruits. In 1995, the total volume of the harvest in Ambuqu, province of Imbabura, was 130 000 kg with an average yield of 3250 kg/ha. Gross earnings was 472 US$/ha. The net gain was 314 US$/ha which represents six times the official monthly minimum wage in Ecuador. Spondias purpurea can grow and develop normally on rocky substrates and other marginal soils of otherwise low agricultural value. /// Los frutos comestibles de Spondias purpurea son muy apreciados en la regin de la Costa y en los Andes de Ecuador en donde se cultivan. Tambin se exportan a Colombia y Per. Los frutos se consumen en fresco o se procesan en varios productos como mermelada, vino y licor, todos ellos con un mercado potencial promisorio. En este trabajo se describe el ciclo anual de cultivo, que incluye su propagacin, cosecha y procesado, produccin e importancia socioeconmica de los frutos. En 1995, el volumen total de la cosecha en Ambuqu, provincia de Imbabura, fue de 130 000 kg con un promedio de produccin de 3250 kg por hectarea. Los beneficios totales fueron de 472 dlares/ha. La ganancia neta fue de 314 dlares/ha, lo que representa seis veces el salario mensual mnimo oficial de Ecuador. Spondias purpurea puede crecer y desarrollarse con normalidad en sustratos pedregosos y otras reas marginales de escaso valor agrcola. 
4255738| A preliminary study on Haitian plant use revealed that Citrus aurantium (Rutaceae), common name "zorange si" was utilized in a wide variety of ways. Citrus aurantium was found to be used medicinally to treat colds, fevers, hepatic disorders, gall bladder problems, rheumatism, epilepsy, emotional shock, bruising internally and externally, skin blemishes and digestive problems. The sour orange was also found to be considered valuable in food preparation, agriculture, construction and voodoo. Our study of Citrus aurantium provides evidence for continued traditional use of plants in Haiti. /// Une tude prliminaire des plantes Haitiennes rvle que Citrus aurantium (Rutace), communment appel "zorange si" a diffrents usages. L'tude a aussi dmontr l'utilisation de l'orange sure dans le traitement de grippe, fivre, les insuffisances hpatiques, les problme de malfonctionment de la vescicale biliare, traitment de troubles motionels, contusion, tache de la peau, rhumatisme, pilepsie et problmes digestifs. Il est aussi utilis dans la prparation de nourriture, dans l'agriculture, dans la construction et dans le vaudoo. Cette tude sur Citrus aurantium prouve l'existence d'une tradition d'utilisation de plantes en Haiti. 
4256198| Beans of several species were domesticated in tropical America thousands of years ago, to be combined with maize and other crops in highly successful New World agricultural systems. Radiocarbon dates on charcoal associated with Phaseolus in archaeological sites, in Mexico and Peru indicated the presence of domesticated beans as early as 10 000 years ago. However, direct dates on the beans and pods themselves by accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) do not provide evidence for the cultivation in Mexico of common beans, P. vulgaris, and teparies, P. acutifolius, before about 2500 B.P. in the Tehuacn Valley, and of common beans about 1300 years ago in Tamaulipas and 2100 years ago in the Valley of Oaxaca. AMS dates support the presence in the Peruvian Andes of domesticated common beans by about 4400 B.P. and lima beans by about 3500 B. P. and lima beans by about 5600 B.P. in the coastal valleys of Peru. The late appearance of common and lima beans in the Central Highlands of Mesoamerica supports the importance of missing evidence that may be obtained from prehistoric agricultural sites in western Mexico and in Central America which are located within the range of the wild populations of these species. Additionally, biochemical studies of subsamples of the dated specimens should be carried out in order to extend the molecular evidence for the independent domestication of North and South American common beans. /// Hace miles de aos atrs, varias especies de frijoles se domesticaron en el trpico americano. Se combinaron con el maz y otras plantas en un sistema de agricultura muy exitoso y particular al Nuevo Mundo. Las fechas radiocarbnicas, extrados de muestras de carbn de madera, asociado con Phaseolus en locales arqueolgicos en Mxico y el Per, sealaron el cultivo de frijoles domesticados hace 10 000 aos. Sin embargo, mediciones directas tomadas en los frijoles y vainas, usando el acelerador atmico (AMS), no dan evidencia del cultivo del frjol comn (P. vulgaris) y teparies (P. acutifolius) en Mxico antes de 2500 aos a.p. en el Valle de Tehuacn, y del frjol comn antes de alrededor de 1300 aos a.p. en Tamaulipas y antes de 2100 aos a.p. en el Valle de Oaxaca. Otras mediciones directas (tomadas con el AMS) apoyan la presencia de los frijoles domesticados en los Andes de Per alrededor de 4400 a.p. en la sierra del Per, y las habas de lima cerca de 3500 a.p., y las habas de lima alrededor de 5600 b.p. en los valles costales del Per. La llegada tardia del frijol comn y habas de lima en la Sierra Central de Mesoamrica apoya la importancia de cualquier evidencia que se pudiera obtener de locales agriculturales prehistricos en la parte oeste de Mxico y en Amrica Central, los quales estan localizados dentro de la distribucin de las poblaciones genticas silvestres de estas especies. En adicin, estudios bioquimicos de muestras subsidiarias de los espcimenes fechados se deberia hacer para extender la evidencia molecular para la domesticacin independiente de estos cultivos en Amrica del Norte o del Sur. 
4252997|While the author (Gaertner 1962) has previously reported on the freezing, preservation and preparation of native wild plants of Ontario for culinary purposes, this communication concerns itself primarily with three common weeds: sow thistle (Sonchus spp.), evening primrose (Oenothera biennis L.) and sheep sorrel (Rumex acetosella L.), which might add to our winter diet. Two of the three plants are European introductions, usually considered extremely troublesome when present in the field; the third is a native biennial. In addition, the use of the unopened male cones of pine (Pinus spp.) and spruce (Picea spp.) are described.
41001172|Various attempts have been made to locate the area of domestication of Brassica oleracea crops (i.e., cole crops). Contrasting hypotheses suggest either a North Atlantic or a Mediterranean origin. In the absence of archaeological proof, linguistic and literary considerations can offer some insight into this issue. Expressions indicating a deep-rooted knowledge and use of these crops are present in early works of ancient Greek and Latin literature, while no trace of cole crops has been found in documents from ancient Egyptian or other Fertile Crescent civilizations. Most cole crop terminology used in modern European languages can etymologically be traced to ancient Latin or Greek roots, particularly those terms indicating the most obvious morphological feature of the primitive domesticated forms, i.e., the solid upright stem (kaulos, caulis). Celtic tradition is not documented earlier than the Christian era, other than in stone inscriptions, and there is no clear evidence of a "cole tradition" among the Celts. This paper gathers information from the linguistic, literary, and historical points of view that are compatible with the domestication of B. oleracea in the ancient Greek-speaking area of Central and East Mediterranean. Sono stati fatti diversi tentativi di localizzare l'area di domesticazione delle piante coltivate appartenenti alla specie Brassica olercea (cavoli in senso lato). Sono state proposte ipotesi alternative che propongono un'origine Nord Atlantica oppure Mediterranea. In mancanza di prove archeologiche, considerazioni linguistiche e letterarie possono offrire qualche indicazione a proposito. Le prime opere scritte delle letterature greca antica e latina contengono espressioni che fanno riferimento ad una consolidata conoscenza e ad un utilizzo ben radicato di queste colture. Viceversa, i documenti scritti lasciati dalle civilt antiche dell' Egitto e del Medio Oriente non hanno lasciato tracce riferibili alla presenza di cavoli. La terminologia utilizzata nelle lingue moderne europee per indicare i cavoli pu essere fatta risalire etimologicamente a radici latine greche, in particolare a quei termini che indicano la caratteristica morfologica pi evidente che avevano le forme domestiche primitive, cio il robusto fusto eretto (kaulos, caulis). La tradizione celtica non ha lasciato documenti scritti prima dell'era volgare, se non iscrizioni su pietra, e non e' stata tramandata alcuna chiara evidenza di una tradizione celtica dell'utilizzo dei cavoli. Questo articolo raccoglie informazioni appartenenti alle sfere linguistica, letteraria e storica, tutte compatibili con una domesticazione di B. olercea avvenuta nell'area di diffusione della antica lingua greca, cio nel Mediterraneo Centrale ed Orientale.
4256024| The economic usefulness and potential of endangered and rare plants in the United States was surveyed to assess some of the potential impacts of plant extinction on the world's largest economy. We analyzed relationships between an existing comprehensive database of U.S. rare plants, and a new database that synthesizes available information on worldwide plant uses and U.S. crop values. While few rare plants are directly useful, nearly 80% of the U.S. plant genera with rare taxa contain at least one useful species. Moreover, two-thirds of the 2949 U.S. rare and endangered taxa are congeneric with cultivated species. Examples of this close relationship between rare plants and their economically significant congenerics were translated into dollar values. For instance, the annual U.S. wholesale farm value of food crop congenerics of rare plants is $9 billion. Since many crops require periodic genetic infusions from close relatives to combat threats from climatic change and disease, or to supply features such as improved nutritional value, we conclude that the threats to the rare wild plants of the U.S. also constitute threats to the future of many contemporary crops. /// La utilidad y potencial econmica de las plantas escasas o en peligro de extincin en los E.E.U.U. fueron examinadas para avaluar los impactos potenciales de extinciones de plantas en la economa ms grande del mundo. Analizamos las relaciones entre una existente y comprensiva base de datos de las plantas escasas de los E.E.U.U. y una nueva base de datos que sintentiza la informacin disponible sobre los usos mundiales y los valores agrcolas en este pas. Mientras son pocas las plantas que tengan utilidad directa, casi el 80% de los gneros con taxa escasa si contienen por lo menos una especie til. Adems, dos tercios de las 2949 taxa de importancia para la conservacin se encuentran en gneros con especies cultivadas. Ejemplos de esta relacin cercana entre las plantas escasas y sus congenricas con importanica econmica fueron traducidos a valores de dolares. Por ejemplo, el valor al mayoreo anual de la cosechas comestibles con plantas escasas congenricas se encuentra en $9 mil milliones en los E.E.U.U. Como muchas cosechas requieren de infusiones genticas peridicas de sus parientes cercanos para combatir las amenazas del cambio climtico y enfermedades, o para mejorar sus valores nutricionales, concluimos que las amenazas a las plantas silvestres escasas tambin ponen en peligro el futuro de muchas cosechas contemporneas. 
4287858|Studies show that black pepper can be propagated rapidly by leaf cuttings, the results far exceeding those obtained by conventional methods. An innovation in the use of leaf cuttings is also described in this study.
4252700|The cajeput tree, native from Australia through Burma, is planted in forestry projects, for reclamation of swamps, and as an ornamental in warm climates; often escapes and invades vast areas of low land. The hard wood is durable underground and under water; checks and warps unless slowly seasoned, but is handsome when finished and prized for cabinetwork. The bark, chemically similar to cork, has many uses. Cajeput oil, obtained from the leaves, is in limited pharmaceutical demand, being more costly than oil of eucalyptus. Formerly acclaimed as an "antiseptic" tree, "subduing malarial vapors," the cajeput has become in Florida a prime respiratory irritant. Since the pollen is not airborne, the irritant factor is apparently the volatile property. Florida beekeepers, previously in opposition to the spread of the nectar-rich cajeput because of the unpleasant odor and taste of the honey, now have found it valuable for brood-rearing and salable after standing and blending.
4255713|Crosses between Tripsacum dactyloides and teosinte (Zea diploperennis) using standard pollination technique have been successfully attempted and six highly fertile hybrid plants obtained. Previous research had shown other teosintes to be cross-incompatible with Tripsacum and maize to be crossable but highly intersterile with Tripsacum. Some investigators believe that Tripsacum played a prominent role in the origin of maize; the Tripsacum-diploperennis hybrid provides evidence to support that idea. Ears produced by the hybrid have paired kernel rows, a distinctive characteristic of the oldest archaeological maize that none of the wild relatives have. This unique hybrid is described and discussed in terms of its possible role in the origin and evolution of maize.
4255643| A mixed population of Cucurbita at Vado El Moro in northern Tamaulipas, Mexico showed an anomalous pattern of fruit bitterness. Some domesticated plants (C. argyrosperma and C. moschata) expressed cucurbitacin bitterness whereas some sympatric free-living plants produced non-bitter fruits. This reversal of typical cucurbitacin expression suggested gene flow between crop and weed at the site. Isozyme analysis provided little insight as to taxa involved in gene exchange, although progeny from a single free-living plant carried IDH allozymes that are associated with Mexican landraces of C. pepo. Synthetic hybridization revealed that fertile F
4252038|The generally accepted viewpoint that sweet corn has been handed down through the ages by the American Indians from pre-Columbian times is challenged in this article regarding it as a mutation of dent corn which may occur at any time and anywhere that extensive areas of field corn exist.
4251842|Where the accessibility, prevalence and variety of native medicinal plants may well serve as the basis of an American crude drug industry.
4254279|Previous suggestions that prehistoric agriculturalists of the Ozark Bluff Dweller culture utilized a fully domesticated form of Chenopodium have been confirmed. Comparative examination of infructescence and fruit structure indicates that archaeological material is assignable to C. berlandieri ssp. nuttalliae, a product of Mexican agriculture. Large-fruited chenopod remains from other sites in eastern North America, often identified as those of wild species, may also belong to the Mexican domesticated form. A related, wild species of northeastern North America, C. bushianum, shows similarities to the Mexican weed-crop complex that may reflect prehistoric genetic interaction. This is the first documented report of domesticated Chenopodium from prehistoric North America.
4256743| Salvia hispanica L., was an important staple Mesoamerican food and medicinal plant in pre-Columbian times. Unlike other Mesoamerican pseudocereal crops such as Amaranthus and Chenopodium, it has received comparatively little research attention. An ethnobotanical review of this Mesoamerican crop plant Salvia hispanica has been undertaken to examine changes in use accompanying Spanish colonization. A comparative analysis of accounts of use from the 16th century codices of Mexico and subsequent publications has revealed subtle changes in medicinal, culinary, artistic, and religious uses. Several hypotheses surrounding changes in use through time and the original use(s) that led to domestication are developed and tested through collection of ethnobotanical data in the highlands of western Mexico and Guatemala. A general decline in ethnobotanical knowledge associated with wild populations coupled with a loss of habitat in some locations has degraded important germplasm and knowledge resources for a species with great economic potential. /// En contraste con otras cultivos de pseudocereales de Mesoamrica, como Amaranthus y Chenopodium, pocas investigaciones se han realizado sobre Salvia hispanica L., a pesar de la importancia que tuvo esta especie como una planta comestible y medicinal en el periodo Pre-Colombino. Se realiz una revision etnobotnica de la especie mesoamericana Salvia hispanica para analizar los cambios en uso que acompaaron a la colonizacin espaola. Se presentan tablas con las descripciones de usos de cdices del siglo XVI y publicaciones subsecuentes que muestran cambios sutiles en los usos medicinales, culinarios, artsticos, y religiosos. Se propusieron varias hiptesis relativas a los cambios en su uso a travs del tiempo y su uso original; estas hiptesis se probaron con una coleccin de datos etnobotnicos obtenidos en las montaas del oeste de Mxico y Guatemala. La prdida progresiva del conocimiento etnobotnico de las poblaciones silvestres, asociada con la prdida del habitat en algunos sitios, ha provocado una degradacin tanto de importantes recursos genticos como del conocimiento de una especie con un gran potencial econmico. 
25568894|This paper applies the methodology of an ecological community analysis framework to the evaluation of a culturally important food recipe found in Vietnamese cookbooks from Vietnam (VN) and the United States (US). The recipe is for the popular Vietnamese dish sweet-sour snake-head mullet soup. The results show that the assemblage of plant species used in the recipes of the VN and US cookbooks are not identical with significant differences in the frequency of some plant-based ingredients. Re-evaluating the species composition of the dish to include the functions of flavor and texture used to create the structure of the dish shows that although the plant assemblage used in the United States is different, all of the traditional functions are maintained and the dish is perpetuated by being adapted for the new environment. The ecological community analysis framework allows for the identification of indicator species that contribute to the structure of dishes. The methodology may be used to design cookbooks for cultural groups living where their traditional food plants are rare or unavailable.
4256117| Pitayos (Stenocereus spp.) are columnar cacti that produce attractive edible fruits under both wild and cultivated conditions. Until recently the study of pitayos has been relatively neglected even though they have been a crucial staple for the inhabitants of subtropical semiarid lands of Mexico since ancient times and this century have become an important fruit crop there. The main objective of this review is to relate seasonal aspects of vegetative and reproductive growth, CO
4254870|Lack of effective cooperation among researchers in the applicable biological, physical, and clinical sciences has accounted, in large measure, for the lack of successful development in the United States of any significant number of new plant drugs during the latter part of the 20th century. Unrealistic federal regulations that tend to render unprofitable such research have also played an important role in hindering the development of new plant drugs. It is likely that both of these factors will change in the future as health-conscious consumers demand more accurate information and wider availability of natural drug products. Several anticipated developments will greatly facilitate research and production in this previously difficult area. These include the development of new, simplified bioassay procedures; improved, easily applied analytical methods; and innovative plant-cell-culture methodologies, possibly involving genetic manipulation. The kinds of drugs that need to be developed using such techniques are discussed. It is concluded that significant new plant drugs and new methods of producing them will be developed to serve mankind during the 21st century.
4251855|Nitrogenous fertilisers, in particular, have been found to stimulate growth and increase the alkaloid content of Atropa Belladonna.
4256092| Herein a brief review, with 49 references, of the history and phytochemistry of toxic honeys, in which bees have sequestered plant secondary compounds naturally occurring in plant nectars (floral and extrafloral). It is hypothesized that such toxic honeys could have served as pointers to psychoactive and other medicinal plants for human beings exploring novel ecosystems, causing such plants to stand out, even against a background of extreme biodiversity. After reviewing various ethnomedicinal uses of toxic honeys, the author suggests that pre-Columbian Yucatecan Mayans intentionally produced a psychoactive honey from the shamanic inebriant Turbina corymbosa as a visionary substrate for manufacture of their ritual metheglin, balch. /// Se presenta una breve resea, con 49 citas bibliogrficas, de la historia y fitoqumica de mieles txicas, en las cuales las abejas han secuestrado compuestos secundarios de plantas, de ocurrencia natural en sus nctares (florales y extraflorales). Se hipotiza que semejantes mieles txicas podran haber funcionado como indicadores hacia plantas psicoactivas y otras plantas medicinales, para seres humanos explorando ecosistemas novedosos, haciendo destacar semejantes plantas, an contra un trasfondo de biodiversidad extrema. Despus de resear varios usos etnomedicinales de mieles txicas, el autor sugiere que los mayas yucatecos precolombinos produjeron a propsito una miel psicoactiva del embriagante chamnico Turbina corymbosa como substrato visionario de su aloja ritual balch. 
4255020|Ricinodendron rautanenii provides an easily stored sweet-tasting fruit containing a nut whose seed is rich in fat, protein, and minerals. Its distribution is largely confined to the Zambezian phytogeographical region of Africa, centered on the nutrient-poor Kalahari sands of southeastern Angola and northeastern Namibia. There the estimates of annual nut production range from ca. 250 kg/ha to 800 kg/ha. In this subhumid summer-rain climate this tree flowers in late spring and the fruits fall in autumn. A significant proportion of the nuts are still edible after having lain on the ground for a year. The nuts were traditionally a staple food for the subregion's rural populations.
4257171| The handicrafts made from Syngonanthus nitens scapes have been an important source of income for rural communities in the Jalapo region of Brazil since the late 1990s. This study analyzed S. nitens harvest and management techniques and the economic importance of the handicrafts. We also tested the effects of harvest on S. nitens population ecology. Handicrafts provide about US$1,800/year per artisan, being especially important to women. Experimental scape harvesting in mid-October, which is when knowledgeable artisans harvest and when the seeds are mature, had no consistent effects on population density, plant survival, or reproduction (clonal or sexual) after one year. Since 40% of the new recruits come from seeds, harvest after seed maturation, combined with removal of only the scapes and not the flowerheads, can allow for S. nitens seeds to remain in the populations and help ensure sustainability of the growing S. nitens handicraft activity. Important economic aspects of S. nitens harvest sustainability include the high value of the handicrafts and the fact they are not perishable. /// O artesanato de escapos de Syngonanthus nitens (capim dourado)  importante fonte de renda para comunidades do Jalapo, Tocantins, desde o fim dos anos 1990. Este estudo caracterizou a importncia econmica deste artesanato, as tcnicas de manejo e extrativismo e testou efeitos da colheita sobre a ecologia populacional da espcie. O artesanato rende cerca de US$1.800/arteso anualmente (R$345,00/ms), sendo especialmente importante para mulheres. A colheita experimental de escapos em meados de outubro, poca de colheita declarada por artesos tradicionais, e quando as sementes esto maduras, no afetou de maneira consistente a densidade populacional, a sobrevivncia ou a reproduo (sexuada e assexuada) das plantas por um ano. Um aspecto importante deste artesanato  o interesse estar voltado para o escapo, e no para os captulos, como ocorre para utilizao de outras sempre-vivas para ornamentao de interiores. Assim, a recomendao de colher aps a maturao das sementes e cortar os captulos no prejudica a atividade artesanal e mantm as sementes nos campos midos, o que  importante para a dinmica populacional, visto que 40% dos recrutas provem de sementes. Aspectos importantes para a sustentabilidade conmica da atividade so o alto valor de mercado e o fato do artesanato no ser um produto perecvel. 
4253964|Cordeauxia edulis is a bush well adapted to semi-arid regions. 2n = 24 chromosomes have been counted. The massive and fast growth of its root system contrasts with the slow development of the aerial parts of the seedlings. We suggest a comparison between this slow development and the low content of the seed reserve proteins. Globulins constitute, in fact, only a small part of the whole nitrogen content of the seed compared to alimentary Papilionaceae, e.g., Lablab purpureus. The distribution of amino-acids, dialysable peptides, salino-soluble proteins and insoluble proteins is analyzed. The amino-acid balance of Cordeauxia seed is compared to those of other food proteins. Compared with other legumes, it is characterized by a methionine deficiency. The absence of phytohemagglutins is a favorable factor in the nutritive value.
4255194| The purple coneflower, Echinacea angustifolia, was the most widely used medicinal plant of the Plains Indians. It was used for a variety of ailments, including toothache, coughs, colds, sore throats, snakebite, and as a painkiller. H. C. F. Meyer used it as a patent medicine in the 1870s and introduced it to the medical profession. Recent scientific research (mostly German) on Echinacea species has shown that they possess immunostimulatory activity. Increased cultivation of E. purpurea and E. angustifolia may be needed to meet the increased demand for its roots and to alleviate the effects of overharvesting of wild stands. /// Echinacea angustifolia fu la planta medicinal ms usada de los indios de la pradera norteamericana. Se us para curar una variedad de enfermedades, incluso el dolor de muelas, el dolor de garganta, la mordedura de serpiente, y como un quita dolores. H. C. F. Meyer la us como una medicina patentada en los aos 1870 y se la intrudujo a la profesin de medicina. Recientes investigaciones cientficas (la mayora en Alemania) sobre las especies de Echinacea han demostrado que stas posean un efecto estimulante en el sistema de inmunidad. Es posible que sea necesario ms y ms cultivo de E. purpurea y E. angustifolia para satisfacer la demanda creciente de las races y para mitigar los efectos de la recoleccin de las poblaciones silvestres. 
4287968|In tropical America there is very little interest in the cultivation of Carica papaya for the production of papain. This article, dealing primarily with field production and processing of crude papain, demonstrates that where coffee is grown commercially, papain may be produced profitably.
4255068|Fourteen chemical compounds from diverse biological sources elicit a unique pattern of behavior in most species of the family Felidae. These chemicals may be grouped into 7-methylcyclopentapyranones, 7-methyl-2-pyrindines, and 4-methylbenzofuranones. They may function as either hallucinogens or cross-react with naturally occurring social odors.
4252150|New mechanical procedures for processing pistachio nuts make economical preparation for marketing possible in the United States. These new developments include mechanical dehulling, methods for separating empty nuts from those with well developed kernels, and methods for separating split nuts from those with closed shells.
4287794| For the six varieties studied, storage temperatures in the narrow range of 55 to 60 F. were found to be most suitable. 
4255133| Material of 229 clones of ulluco (Ullucus tuberosus), representing 10 accessions from markets in southern Peru and one from the wild in Bolivia, was analyzed with regard to morphological variation. The diploid chromosome number (2n = 24) was ascertained in 16 of the clones. Clones grown in different environments (e.g., long vs. short day) retained a more or less similar order of variation with respect to color of the tubers, stems, and leaves and the length/width ratio of the leaves. The shape of fully developed tubers also showed stable variation. Within a single experiment several other vegetative characters showed significant differences between accessions. Furthermore, many flower and inflorescence characters showed variation between accessions, some of them also indicating geographical variation between the Puno-Juliaca area and the Cuzco area. Considerable variation between the clones of an accession was evident, some accessions being clearly more variable than others. Our results show that ulluco is a crop plant that varies extensively even within a geographically limited area. Although repeatedly referred to in the literature as a purely asexual crop, ulluco was shown to be capable of sexual reproduction; this must have been and possibly still is an important source of genetic variation in the species. /// Se analiz la variabilidad morfolgica de 229 clones de ulluco (Ullucus tuberosus) representativos de 10 muestras obtenidas de mercados del sur del Per y un clon silvestre de Bolivia. El nmero diploid de cromosomas (2n = 24) fu detectado en 16 clones. Los cultivados en condiciones diferentes (por ejemplo en da largo vs. da corto) mantenan ms o menos igual orden de variacin de color de los tubrculos, tallos y hojas y relacin de largo y ancho de las hojas. La variacin de la forma de los tubrculos completamente desarrollados era tambin estable. En pruebas particulares entre varias muestras de otros caracteres vegetativos se detectaron diferencias significativas. Adems numerosos caracteres de flores e inflorecencia presentaban variacin entre las muestras, algunos de los caracteres indicaron tambin variacin geogrfica entre las regiones de Puno-Juliaca y Cusco. Era evidente que entre los clones haba variacin considerable. Algunas muestras contenan claramente ms variacin que las otras. Nuestros resultados indicaron que ulluco es un cultivo con mucha variacin incluso en reas limitadas geogrficamente. Aunque en la bibliografa se refieren continuamente a ulluco como un cultivo incapaz de reproduccin sexual, en este estudio se demostr que ulluco se puede reproducir sexualmente; lo cual debe haber sido y posiblemente contina siendo el origen notable de la variacin gentica en esta especie. 
4255393| Twenty varieties of maize (Zea mays, Poaceae) were studied through 11 attributes in three to seven randomly selected plants of each variety with a view to understanding the effect of cob characters on technologically desirable grain qualities. Canonical discriminant analysis showed that productivity (determined by total grain weight/cob, cob diameter and average grain weight) was the most discriminating among varieties followed by round grains fraction (represented by whole top and middle flat grains, number of rows and grain count/surface area), middle flat grains (composed of middle flat grains and grain count/surface area) and shape of the cob (determined by shape index, total grain weight/cob and cob diameter), which accounted for 35.1, 18.3, 12.2, and 9.8% of the total variance, respectively. In the light of these results, tentative norms have been suggested to evolve maize varieties of superior technological properties and yet retain high productivity. A cylindrical cob of large diameter with highest number of grains/area and smallest possible number of rows together constituted an ideal combination to achieve the objectives. Such possibilities in the light of available information are discussed. /// Man hat 11 Charakteristiken (oder Eigenschaften) von 20 Maisarten (Zea mays, Poaceae) mittels 3-7 zufllig gewhlter Pflanzen jeder Art studiert. Das Ziel war zu einem Verstndnis der Wirkung von Kolbencharakteristiken auf die technologisch wnschbaren Korneigenschaften zu gelangen. Eine kanonische Diskriminantenanalyse zeigte, dass Produktivitt (bestimmt mit Hilfe von Korngewicht/Kolben, Kolbendurchmesser, und mittlerem Korngewicht) war hchst diskriminant; nchst kamen, der Reihe nach, die Rundkornfraktion (durch ganze Ober- und Mittelkrner, Reihenanzahl, und Anzahl von Krnern pro Flcheneinheit dargestellt), flache Mittlerekrner (bestehend aus flachen Mittlerekrnern und Krneranzahl/Flcheneinheit) und Kolbenform (mittels Formindex, gesamtes Krnergewicht/Kolben, und Kolbendurchmesser bestimmt); die obigen Parameter stellen 35.1, 18.3, 12.2, bzw. 9.8% der gesamten Varianz dar. Aus diesen Messungen ist man zum Schlusse gekommen, dass ein zylindrischer Kolben mit der grssten Krneranzahl pro Flcheneinheit, und mglichst kleinen Reihenanzahl, eine ideale Kombination dorstellt. Verschiedene Mglichkeiten werden im Lichted dieser Kenntnisse diskutiert. 
4255418| Guayacn (Caesalpinia paraguariensis, Fabaceae, Caesalpinioideae), is an underexploited multipurpose tree legume of the semiarid Chaco region of southern South America. Aspects of the tree's botany, ecology, biogeographical distribution and past and present uses are presented, and its importance as a source of forage for domestic livestock is emphasized. A typical phenogram of the tree is presented, showing that the abundant, and annually reliable, fruit crop lasts nearly year-round. Nutrition data on pods, seeds and leaves are given, as are characteristics of the wood. Merits of C. paraguariensis are discussed in comparison with various tree legumes frequently used in dryland reforestation and agroforestry programs. /// Se considera el Guayacn (Caesalpinia paraguariensis, Fabaceae, Caesalpinioideae) un arbol poco conocido de la porcin semi-arida de la Provincia Chaquea de Amrica del Sur. Aspectos botnicos, ecolgicos, biogeogrficos y econmicos se presentan; se seala la importncia del arbol como fuente de foraje para la ganaderia. La fenologia del arbol se nota con relacin al clima y la pluviometria, y se presentan datos sobre el valor nutritivo de vainas, semillas y hojas. Los caracteristicos principales de la madera se notan asi como varios usos medicinales e industriales. El largo periodo de produccin de frutos del Guayacn se nota con particularidad y el uso potencil del Guayacn en sistemas silvopastorales se considera en comparacin con otras leguminosas leosas mas conocidas. 
4254545|The United States is a major producer of many different types of oilseeds, but the predominant one is soybean, that remarkable legume whose meal and oil serve many animal feed, human food, and domestic industrial product needs. More than half of the soybeans and the products produced from them are exported. The 16 mill MT of soy meal processed and fed in the United States in 1981 constituted 88% of the total oilseed meal, 71% of the high-protein feeds, and 48% of total processed feeds. Of the total soy protein available, less than 5% goes into human food products such as meat extenders, simulated meats, baked goods, dairy product analogs, dietary foods, infant foods, and fermented food products. Less than 1% of soy protein in the United States is used in industrial products, mainly as a binder for pigmented paper coatings. Of the total soy oil available, about 95% is consumed in food products such as margarines, salad oils, and cooking oils. About 5% of soy oil is applied to nonfood uses such as alkyd paints, plasticizer/stabilizers for vinyl plastics, soaps, eraser factices, and many other lesser uses. Other major oilseeds produced in the United States include cottonseed, flaxseed, peanut, safflower, and sunflower. Corn oil is produced in significant quantities as a by-product of the corn starch industry. The oilseed crops having the greatest oil productivity are peanut and sunflower. However, sunflower meal has certain deficiencies for feed and food uses. If the United States is to draw upon oilseed crops as significant contributors to feed, food, industrial products, and agricultural fuel needs, greatly improved productivity will be needed either from new oilseed crops or from improved varieties of present commercial crops.
4255193| The Samoan ethnopharmacopoeia was surveyed for pharmacological activity using broad in vitro and in vivo screens. Residues of 74 different plant species were tested for activity in a Hippocratic screen and in a guinea pig ileum test. Over 86% of the plant species exhibited pharmacological activity. This high percentage of active species strongly supports the belief that ethnobotanical analyses of indigenous floras are more likely than random screens to efficiently identify plants likely to yield new drugs. However, collaboration of ethnobotanists and pharmacognosists is necessary to adequately move promising plants from the realm of indigenous knowledge systems to the laboratories of Western pharmacology. /// Sa su'esu'e lava la'au e fai vai Samoa mo a latou aoga fa'afoma'i i ni auala se lua fa'asaienisi: o le in vitro po'o le su'esu'ega i mea ua tipi 'ese mai manu ma le in vivo po'o le su'esu'ega i manu olo'o ola lava. Sa tofutofu ai la'au 'ese'ese e 74 i na auala se lua. Sa matou fa'atonu ai le aoga i le sili atu i le 86% o na la'au. O lena pesene maualuga e matua'i fa'amaoni ai le aoga o le a'oa'oina o le faiga o vai o atunu'u 'ese'ese ma le fa'atauva'aina o su'esu'ega mo la'au e aunoa ma le amana'ina o le poto o tagata fa'aleatunu'u. E tatau lava ona galulue gatasi ai tagata su'e le faiga vai (ethnobotanists) ma tagata su'e vai la'au (pharmacognosists) ina ia maua ai la'au fou e aoga ai mo tagata gasegase. /// Se analiz la etnofarmacopea de Samoa para la actividad farmacolgica usando amplias pruebas in vitro e in vivo. Se probaron los residuos de 74 diferentes especies de plantas para la actividad en una prueba hipocrtica y en una prueba de "guinea pig." Ms del 86% de las especies de plantas mostraron actividad farmacolgica. Este alto porcentage de especies activas confirma ampliamente la crencia de que los anlisis etnobotnicos de floras indgenas son ms factibles que las pruebas al azar, para identificar ms eficientemente a plantas que produzcan nuevas drogas. Sin embargo, la colaboracin de etnobotnicos y farmacognosistos es necesaria para extraer las plantas del campo de conocimiento indgena hacia los laboratorios farmacolgicos del oeste. 
4256203| Dacryodes edulis is one of the most preferred tree species by farmers in the humid lowlands of Cameroon. The fruit of the species figures prominently in cross-boundary trade between Cameroon, Nigeria and Gabon. Although there exist empirical data on the volume of trade of the fruit at this level, no data are available at the farm level. A field survey was undertaken to identify uses, management, and farmers' improvement objectives and to quantify, at the farm-level, the economic potential of the species. The results of the survey indicate that D. edulis is widely planted and found mainly in tree crop fields and in home gardens. The fruit is highly consumed and traded. The farm-level value of fruit production reaches $US161 a year per grower or collector. The dead branches of the species are used as firewood and its bark is used as medicine. Desired improvement objectives include increased fruit size, good tasting fruit, high yield and reduced time to bearing. /// Les fruits font l' objet d'un commerce inter-frontalier entre le Cameroun, le Gabon et le Nigeria. Bien que les donnes sur ce commerce soient disponibles, il manque de donnes  l'echelle de l'exploitation paysanne. Une enqute a t mene pour identifier l'utilisation de produits de l'espce, son mode de gestion et les caractristiques que les paysans aimeraient voir amliorer. L'autre objectif de l'enqute consistait  quantifier, au niveau des paysans, le potentiel conomique de l'espce. Les rsultats de l'enqute montrent que les plants issus de semis constituent le mode de propagation le plus utilis pour la reproduction du D. edulis et que l'espce se trouve principalement dans les cacaoyers, cafeiers et jardins de case. Les fruits sont largement consomms et vendus. La valeur annuelle de la production de fruit atteint $US161 par producteur ou collecteur. Les branches mortes sont utilises comme bois de chauffe et l'ecorce est utilise en pharmacope traditionelle. Parmis les axes de recherche sur l'amlioration de l'espce souhaits par les paysans on note l'augmentation de la taille du fruit, l'amlioration du got, l'augmentation de la production annuelle et la rduction du temps  la fructification. 
4251915|In 1947 six varieties of Old World figs, cultivated on about 50,000 acres in California, produced 30,500 tons of dried figs, the largest crop on record for the State.
4253874|In the following pages we will describe and discuss the kinds of sorghum grown in various parts of the country and the climatic, ethnological, and historical bases for the biogeographic patterns of sorghum distribution in Ethiopia.
4287887|Alkaloid content of Veratrum fimbriatum is much greater during rapid growth in early spring than the rest of the year. Top growth at the expense of stored food reserves did not deplete alkaloids. Individual plants were in two categories regarding high or low percentage alkaloid producers.
4287863|Safflower, grown formerly for the red dye from its flowers, is now a source of oil and livestock feed. In California an average of 30,000 acres have been grown each year since 1950. It has been both a dryland and irrigated crop. The oil has had a ready market for the manufacture of alkyd resins and drying oils.
4253859|Job's-tears-a cultigen of great antiquity-is grown in South Asia mainly by the natives of various ethnic groups of Mongolian origin. The plant is used as a minor cereal and fodder. The northeastern region of India is a centre of variability for the genus Coix. It is considered that this plant was introduced here either by the pestoral Aryan invaders, who grew it on the slopes of the Himalayas or during Mongolian conquests when the crop got distributed from the eastern Himalayas to lower subtropical terrains. During plant explorations conducted since 1970 in the northeastern region of India, much variability has been recorded for this crop. The various soft-shelled races now grown in this tract by the tribes are the result of conscious folk domestication and must have been selected for easy hulling and good kernel type. Based on this, and on information on domestication, cultivation and economic usages of this plant among the natives, some findings are presented in this paper.
40390468|Cordyceps sinensis is a mushroom that parasitizes larvae of Thitarodes (Hepialus) moths, which inhabit the alpine grasslands of the Tibetan Plateau. Tibetans have used the mushroom, which they call yartsa gunbu ("summer-grass, winter-worm") for many centuries, if not millennia. A 350% increase in the price paid to pickers between 1997 and 2004 has turned this tiny mushroom into the single most important source of cash for rural households in contemporary Tibet. On average, 40% of the rural cash income in the Tibet Autonomous Region is derived from its collection, which government statistics figured at 50,000 kg in 2004, contributing at least CNY (Chinese yuan) 1.8 billion (USD 225 million) to the Tibet Autonomous Region's GDP. A dramatic fungal commodification of the rural Tibetan economy is occurring, as the income from sale of Cordyceps often accounts for 70%-90% of a family's annual cash income in areas where it grows. The ever-increasing harvesting pressure raises the question of sustainability. The fact that Cordyceps has been collected for centuries and is still common argues for its resilience, but the lack of harvest studies for C sinensis precludes a definite answer as to whether the harvest can be sustained at its current level.
4255230| Hemolytic saponin content was determined of the leaves of 1213 plants of different variants of Medicago sativa s.l. (including wild and cultivated alfalfa), and a close ally, M. papillosa. The latter species had a much higher content than any of the groups of M. sativa. Medicago sativa ssp. caerulea, the most important ancestor of alfalfa, had a very low content of hemolytic saponins. The most primitive forms of cultivated alfalfa examined, from Turkey, and wild M. sativa ssp. sativa of Turkey, also both had very low contents of hemolytic saponins. This is consistent with, and likely explained by, a direct origin of the two Turkish groups from sympatric M. sativa ssp. caerulea. The second most important ancestor of alfalfa, M. sativa ssp. falcata, had the highest content of any of the examined groups of M. sativa. Modern "Western" (European, North American) cultivars and Western ruderal populations had intermediate levels of hemolytic saponins. This is consistent with, and likely explained by, their origin by hybridization and introgression between the low saponin groups noted above and M. sativa ssp. falcata. /// Le contenu en saponine hmolytique des feuilles de 1213 plantes reprsentant diffrents variants de Medicago sativa s.l. (incluant la luzerne sauvage et la luzerne cultive) et d'un alli immdiat, M. papillosa, a t dtermin. Medicago papillosa a un contenu beaucoup plus lev que celui de n'importe lequel groupe de M. sativa. L'anctre le plus important de la luzerne, M. sativa ssp. caerulea, a un contenu trs bas en saponines hmolytiques. Les formes examines les plus primitives de la luzerne cultive, en provenance de la Turquie, ainsi que les reprsentants sauvages de M. sativa ssp. sativa de la Turquie avaient aussi des contenus trs bas en saponines hmolytiques. Cette observation supporte et s'explique mme probablement par une origine directe des deux groupes turcs  partir du taxon sympatrique M. sativa ssp. caerulea. Le second anctre le plus important de la luzerne, M. sativa ssp. falcata, possde le contenu le plus lev de tous les groupes examins de M. sativa. Les cultivars "occidentaux" (europens et nord-amricains) modernes ainsi que les populations rudrales des mmes rgions sont caractrises par des niveaux intermdiaires en saponines hmolytiques. Ceci est compatible avec leur origine par hybridation et introgression entre les groupes  basse teneur en saponine nots plus hauts et M. sativa ssp. falcata, et en dcoule probablement. 
4256702| Despite its central importance to tropical forest conservation, the understanding of patterns in traditional resource use still is incipient. To address this deficiency, we compared known palm uses among two indigenous (Yawanaw and Kaxinaw) and two folk (rubber tapper and ribeirinho) communities in Southwestern Amazonia (Acre, Brazil). We conducted one-hundred-and -forty semistructured "checklist" interviews about palm uses with male and female adults in the four communities. The knowledge of each community about the uses of the 17 palm species common to all communities was compared by testing for significant differences in the mean number of uses cited per informant and by calculating the Jaccard similarity index of known uses of palm species among the four communities. The following three hypotheses were confirmed: 1) the use of palms differs according to the cultural preferences of each community; 2) indigenous communities know significantly more about palm uses than folk communities; and 3) part of the indigenous knowledge was acquired through contact with Amazonian folk communities. /// Apesar de sua importncia central para a conservao de florestas tropicais, o entedimento dos padres do conhecimento tradicional sobre recursos naturais ainda  incipiente. Para atenuar esta deficincia comparamos o conhecimento dos usos de palmeiras entre duas comunidades indgenas (Yawanaw e Kaxinaw) e duas comunidades no-indgenas (seringueiros e ribeirinhos), na Amaznia Ocidental (Acre, Brasil). Foram feitas 140 entrevistas semiestruturadas do tipo "checklist" sobre o uso de palmeiras com homens e mulheres em cada comunidade. O conhecimento de cada comunidade sobre usos das 17 espcies de palmeiras encontradas em comum, foi comparado atravs do teste das diferenas significativas entre a mdia de usos conhecidos por informante e atravs do clculo do ndice de similaridade Jaccard dos usos conhecidos de palmeiras entre as quatro comunidades. As seguintes trs hipteses foram confirmadas: 1) os usos conhecidos de palmeiras diferem de acordo com as preferncias culturais de cada comunidade, 2) as comunidades indgenas possuem um maior conhecimento sobre os usos de palmeiras do que as comunidades tradicionais no indgenas, e 3) grande parte do conhecimento indgena sobre utilizao de palmeiras foi adquirido no ltimo sculo com a convivncia de outros povos amaznicos. 
4255037|American chestnuts (Castanea dentata) and Chinese chestnuts (C. mollissima) grown in the United States and imported European (Italian) chestnuts (C. sativa) were analyzed for proximate, mineral, and amino acid composition. Unlike most other tree nuts, chestnuts are low in protein and fat but high in carbohydrate. American and Chinese chestnuts were higher than European chestnuts for protein, ash, crude fiber, iron, magnesium, phosphorus, and copper but lower in fat. Essential amino acid patterns of chestnuts, as measured by chemical scoring, were about the same for American, Chinese, and European chestnuts.
4255841| Sustainable extraction of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) depends upon harvesting a small fraction of the total productivity. Over-exploitation can lead to a loss of biodiversity, but a low level of extraction, without value addition at the point of origin, is usually not economically feasible for extractors. Extraction and productivity levels per unit area for most non-timber forest products are unknown, nor do we have much information about value addition at various points in the marketing channels. Here we determine extraction and productivity levels for Amla trees (Phyllanthus emblica), which yield fruits that are used for a wide variety of purposes in preparation of various foods, beverages and medicines. We also present preliminary data on the price appreciation of the fruit for one of the processed products. We have determined that the current level of extraction, 60-80% of all fruits at the population level, may have a negative effect on new recruitment. We present a model for value addition that has the potential to enhance income and reduce the level of extraction. This model is currently being implemented by the Soliga community with the assistance of a non-governmental organization. /// Extrao de Produtos Florestais No Madereiros Nas Florestas de Biligiri Hills, India. 3. Produtividade, Extrao e Prospectos de Explorao Sustentvel de Amla Phyllanthus emblica. (Euphorbiaceae). A explorao sustentvel dos recursos florestais no madereiros est baseada na extrao de uma pequena frao da produtividade total desses recursos. A explorao excessiva pode levar a perda da biodiversidade, e por outro lado, a explorao em pequena quantidade pode ser economicamente invivel. Nveis de extrao e produtividade por unidade de rea so desconhecidos para grande parte desses recursos, assim como informaes sobre valores adicionais em vrios pontos dos canais de mercado. Neste trabalho, ns determinamos nveis de extrao e produtividade para frutos de Amla (Phyllanthus emblica), os quais so utilizados na preparao de comidas e medicamentos. Ns apresentamos dados preliminares de apreciao de preo do fruto para um dos produtos processados. Ns determinamos tambm que o nvel de extrao atual, 60-80% de todos os frutos produzidos a nvel de populao, pode ter um efeito negativo no recrutamento de plntulas. Ns apresentamos um modelo de valor aditivo que tem o potencial de aumentar a renda e reduzir o nvel de extrao. Este modelo est atualmente sendo implementado pela comunidade Soliga com a assistncia de uma organizao no governamental. 
4255464| Wild azuki bean, a progenitor of an Asiatic food legume (Vigna angularis var. nipponensis: Fabaceae), and its weed form are distributed widely in the Japanese Archipelago. The straggling or climbing wild form occurs in sleeve or mantle plant communities, and the weakly climbing or bushy weed form is found in relatively open human-disturbed habitats. The wild form has small seeds with a black-mottled pattern on green or grey skin; the weed form has larger seeds with variable color patterns. Wild and weed forms have black, easily dehiscent pods, distinct from their cultivated counterpart which has red large seeds and indehiscent light-colored pods. The wild form is not utilized, but the weed form is recognized by farmers and has several folk names as a weed, a contaminated form of azuki bean, and a substitute for azuki as a food. The frequent occurrence of weed azuki bean in Japan is attributable to adaptation of the wild form to lack of climbing support in human-disturbed habitats, escape from old cultivars, and natural establishment from the derivatives of hybrids between cultivars and wild forms. / Die Wildazukibohne, ein Vorfahr einer asiatische Ebarbohne (Vigna angularis var. nipponensis: Fabaceae), und dieser Unkrautform sind weitverbreit in der japanischen Inselgruppe. Die ppigwachende oder aufsteigende Wildform liegt in den Saum- oder Mantelpflanzengesellshaften, und die schwchliche aufsteigende oder buschige Unkrautform wird in den relativoffen menschenausstrend Standorten gefunden. Die Wildform trage die kleinen Samen mit einem schwarzgefleckten Muster auf der grauen oder grnen Samenhaut; die Unkrautform trage die greren Samen mit dem variabelen Frbung und Zeichnung. Wild- und Unkrautformen haben die schwarzen und lechtspaltigen Hlsen, distinktem vom ihnen Kulturgegenstck, der hat die roten groen Samen und die inspaltigen hellfarben Hlsen. Die Wildform wird nicht gebenutzen, aber die Unkrautform wird angeerkennen bei den Bauern und hat fieln Volksnamen als einen Unkrauten, einen Befleckungformen der Azukibohne, und zum Ersatz fr Azuki zu Ezwecken. Das hufige Dasein der Unkrautazukibohne in Japan ist der Anpassung der Wildform zu Mangel der aufsteigenden Stze in den menschenaussrenden Standorten, dem Verwilderung von alten Kulturvarietten, und der natrlichen Grndung von der Ableitung der Hybriden zwischen Kulturvarietten und Wildformen hervorgekommen. 
4253596|Studies of flowering in sesame (Sesamum indicum L.) under different photoperiods revealed that cultivars Glauca, Venezuela-52 and Oro were short day strains while a fourth cultivar, Aceitera, proved to be day length neutral. Sensitivity to varying photoperiods, then, does not seem to be a universal characteristic of all sesame cultivars. Also, no correlation was found between photoperiodic class and latitude of origin in the cultivars studied. Inheritance studies involved crosses between the day neutral cultivar and two of the short day cultivars. In all cases, the F
4257223| Gathered food plants (GFPs) (wild and weeds) are crucial for understanding traditional Mediterranean diets. Combining open interviews and free-listing questionnaires, we identified 215 GFP items, i.e., 53 fungi and 162 from 154 vascular plant species. The variation in frequency and in salience among the items follows a rectangular hyperbola. Highly salient species were Silene vulgaris (Moench) Garcke, Scolymus hispanicus L., and Pleurotus eryngii (DC.: Fr.) Qulet. Salience and frequency showed no correlation with the expected health benefits of each species. Regional frequency in the Mediterranean and local frequency are directly related. Thus, local food plants are much less "local" than expected. Different types of culinary preparations provide the most information in the cluster analysis of variables. The cluster analysis of items produced a tree with 10 clusters that form culture-specific logical entities, allowing people to structure their environment. Within each cluster, plant species are replaced and incorporated provided they resemble the general profile. This allows innovation and adaptation on a local level and explains the differences between adjacent localities in the list of species. Two types of clusters or species complexes are described: "species-labeled" and "uses-labeled." Lastly, we discuss the underlying empirical basis of the ethnoclassification in the Mediterranean area. 
4251868|Ergot, the black mass of a particular fungus on cereal grains, especially rye, was the cause of frightful epidemics in Europe more than a thousand years ago, and the ingested contaminated grain has occasioned disease in Russia as late as 1927 and in the United States a generation earlier. Medicinally administered, however, it provides a very important drug in the science of obstetrics.
4287861|Because of the decline of pepper culture in southern Asia and its resulting scarcity, the Section of Plant Introduction of the United States Department of Agriculture has recently procured ten varieties from the Malabar Coast of India for introduction into tropical America. Pepper culture in India is an ancient gardening handicraft. The vine shows considerable genetic variability, making it a pliable prospect for adaptation to new cultural methods in the New World.
4257196|Morphometry is the science of measuring two-dimensional and three-dimensional aspects and parameters of object morphology, including size, shape, and tomography. Compared to conventional measurement, computer-assisted morphometry is exponentially faster, more accurate, more precise, and more efficient while providing a substantially broader spectrum of measurements of morphological parameters. Objective quantification replaces subjective, perception-based typology in the analysis of variation. Morphometric data from seed reference populations representing more than 1,000 taxa were used to study patterns of morphological variation and to assess related analytical assumptions and basic protocols. Many assumptions about the nature of seed morphology were found suspect and current minimum standards for representative reference seed types and control populations are inadequate and unreliable. Standard plots of area size distributions of wild and domestic seed populations revealed a consistent difference in histogram shape. Conventional descriptive statistical values were insensitive to the differences. Subjecting the histograms to morphometric shape measurements revealed specific shape factors that provided consistent values sensitive to the difference. A new quantitative method for distinguishing wild and domestic seed populations based on measurements of the shape of the distribution of morphological variation, rather than on typology or increase in mean size, was developed and initially tested. It is potentially applicable to the assessment of archaeological seed assemblages in studies of the history of ethnobotany and especially agriculture.
4254462|The perception of the surrounding environment and use of the flora by the inhabitants of Toconce, a Pre-Altiplanic community in the Andes of northern Chile, were investigated. Six ecological units, which are given the local names of Pampa, Tolar, Medano, Pajonal, Hoyada, and Paniso, are recognized by the people of Toconce on the basis of their different dominant plants, geomorphology and microclimate. These units are in turn integrated into 3 units of landscape utilization: Cerro, Campo and Chacra. The latter is an artificial unit, corresponding to the man-made terraces located on the steep slopes of the Andean canyons. The Campo is a pastoral area, mainly for llamas. The Cerro, situated at higher elevation, has ritual as well as economic importance. This altitudinal sector is the place for the gathering of llareta, the most valuable vegetal fuel in Toconce. Seven categories of plant use are defined: forage, medicinal, food, fuel, crafts, ritual and construction. The inhabitants of Toconce have maximized the use of the plant resources in each altitudinal level. This long-lasting cultural pattern is being gradually modified due to the influence of industrial development and growth of the neighboring urban centers.
4256956| Heavy deposits of charcoal and associated Zea pollen recovered from the Aguada Petapilla in the Copn Valley of western Honduras strongly support Hugh Iltis's hypothesis concerning the early domestication and use of maize. Evidence of burning and cultivation appear at approximately 2600-2700 B.C., predating the earliest direct archaeological evidence for human occupation of the region by more than 1,000 years. These Copn data are in close agreement with two other sediment cores from Honduras, and also with maize macrofossils recently recovered from dry deposits in El Gigante Cave. 
4254832|Preserved remains of manioc (Manihot) from 6 archaeological sites in the Casma Valley of Peru are illustrated and described. The combined collections from these sites total 197 pieces of root, 32 bark fragments, 22 pieces of stem, 4 capsules, and 2 leaf twigs. Based on radiocarbon assays, the specimens range in age from 1800 B.C. to A.D. 1532. This collection of sweet manioc is unique for its age, number, and wealth of different plant parts. A theory on the place of origin and time of domestication of these ancient cultivars is given in the conclusions of this paper.
40686783|Myrtillocactus schenckii is a columnar cactus endemic to central Mexico and appreciated for its edible fruit. In the Tehuacan Valley it occurs wild in thorn-scrub forests, but it is also under silviculture managementtolerate in agroforestry systems and cultivated in home gardens. Ethnobotanical and morphometric studies were conducted to document its use and management forms, as well as consequences of artificial selection on morphological patterns in managed populations. In silviculture populations artificial selection occurs through selective tolerance of the phenotypes producing more, larger, and sweeter fruits, whereas in home gardens people plant branches of the preferred phenotypes. Morphological differences were found especially in fruit size and production, the main targets of artificial selection. The highest average values of fruit size and production were found in cultivated populations (0.993 cm 3 and 204.45 fruits per branch, respectively), intermediate in silviculture populations (0.819 cm 3 and 70.63 fruits per branch), and the lowest in the wild (0.68 cm 3 and 59.75 fruits per branch). Multivariate statistical analyses differentiated populations according to their management type. Morphological diversity was higher in managed populations (0.703  0.029 and 0.679  0.019 in silviculture and cultivated populations, respectively) than in the wild (0.652  0.016). Managed plants of M. schenckii do not show signs of depending on humans for survival and reproduction and, therefore, domestication should be considered incipient.
4256773|The alcoholic beverage parakari, a unique fermentation product of cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) by the Wapisiana of Guyana, involves the use of a starch-hydrolyzing (amylolytic) mold (Rhizopus sp., Mucoraceae, Zygomycota) followed by a solid-state ethanol fermentation. A detailed study was made of the parakari manufacturing process in the Wapisiana village of Aishalton, South Rupununi, Guyana. Thirty steps were involved in parakari manufacture and these exhibited a high degree of sophistication, including the use of specific cassava varieties, control of culture temperature, and boosting of inoculum potential with purified starch additives. During the fermentation process, changes in glucose content, pH, taste, smell, and culture characteristics were reported for the fermenting mash. Parakari is the only known example of an indigenous New World fermentation that utilizes an amylolytic mold. Manufacture of parakari is analogous to similar dual fermentations of the Orient, yet independently derived.
4257195|When analyzing sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) remains, which are often carbonized, archaeobotanists commonly differentiate between wild and domesticated achenes and seeds based on the measured length (L) and width (W) or the calculated index L*W. Carbonization reduces the dimensions. To compensate for these reductions, archaeobotanists use a single correction factor proposed by Richard Yarnell (1978) for all cases. The use of a single correction factor can bias the reconstructed dimensions as carbonization is a highly variable process. The current study determines the relationship between carbonization and the dimensions of length and width. Measurements established that a decrease of 2.5-22.5% in achene length and 10-29% in achene width can occur, depending on temperature, heating rate, and variety. For seeds, temperature is of most importance, and shrinkage ranges from 0-27% for the length and from 0-20% for the width. These ranges make the use of a single correction factor problematic. A method is developed in which reflectance (an optical property applied in coal technology to determine coal rank) is used to measure the carbonization temperature, and in turn the shrinkage can be calculated. Subsequently, correction factors are calculated to reconstruct the original length and width. When applied to an assemblage of carbonized sunflower achenes, the newly developed method shows that the Yarnell single correction factor may bias the dimensions towards classifications of "wild" or "ruderal" forms of sunflower.
4254730|Leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula) is a noxious, perennial weed that infests pastures, rangeland and waste areas in the northern Great Plains. The objective of this study was to determine the productive potential of this species when grown under optimum agronomic conditions. Plants were fertilized and irrigated. Oil, hydrocarbon, total protein, and dry-weight production were measured on 3 harvest dates. Calorimetric analyses were performed to determine the potential of leafy spurge as a fuel crop. The hydrocarbon content of 12 strains of leafy spurge was determined to measure genetic variability for this trait. The addition of fertilizer doubled dry-weight production but did not affect percent oil or hydrocarbon content. Oil and hydrocarbon production averaged 6.8 and 0.6% on a plant dry-weight basis. Maximum production of plant biomass, protein, and hydrocarbon was obtained from a mid-July harvest. Oil content increased later in the growing season. The total protein content of leafy spurge averaged 12%. Whole-plant biomass had a caloric value of 4,407 cal/g while the oils contained 10,019 cal/g. Leafy spurge hay can produce 4 times more energy per year than wheat straw; therefore, the immediate potential of leafy spurge whole-plant biomass as a locally grown fuel crop for home-heating purposes is suggested.
4255520|Non-timber forest products (NTFP) such as fuelwood, fodder, fruit, medicinal plants, and small timber are important to the rural poor in India. The traditional usufruct rights that the poor enjoyed have been gradually eroded by state control. This process has accelerated with increases in the prices of timber and industrial wood products. Non-timber forest products collected by the poor do not enter the system of national accounts, which results in the undervaluation of the forest wealth of the country. According to some estimates, the total demand for these products outstrips the sustainable yield of the forests in India. To ensure the best use of the forests, it is necessary for rural communities to share the responsibility of forest management with the forest departments. A proposed joint forestry project in South India is discussed as a case study of this innovative approach to forest management. Data on the existing patterns of NTFP extraction are presented to gain a better understanding of the role that these products play in the life of the rural poor. Policies from the case study are discussed in the concluding section.
4287824|This small shrub, native to the Orient from India to Sumatra, has for centuries been used in Indian medicine. In 1952 reserpine, one of several alkaloids in the plant, was isolated from its root and has since been evaluated in western medicine as one of the most valuable drugs for treating high blood pressure.
4256683|To help or prevent certain health problems and adequately feed people, there is a need for added contributions from legumes. Legumes produce primary and secondary metabolites and other phytochemicals such as nutraceuticals, pharmaceuticals, pesticides, and industrial products. In addition, legumes such as hyacinth bean seed contain nearly 10% more fiber while winged bean contains three times more fiber than common bean. The potential breast cancer fighting chemical known as kievitone is found in hyacinth bean but not in common bean nor soybean. Both agmatine and isovitexin are potential combatants of microbial organisms in mammals including humans. Agmatine and isovitexin are not found in soybean nor common bean, however they exist in winged bean. Studies regarding value added traits such as the bio-functional and biologically active components of legumes have only recently begun because most specialty phytochemicals are extracted from other plant sources. Not only can bio-functional legumes provide healthy food constituents for use as nutraceuticals, pharmaceuticals, and pesticidals, but they can increase healthy food resources worldwide. Bio-functional legumes have been used in the past primarily for forage, pasture, minor food, green manuring, and erosion control. Current uses include these previously mentioned plus some fairly new ones such as hyacinth bean used as an ornamental and wildlife food. The future for these common bean relatives is for use in the health markets as new medicines or nutraceuticals and to provide farmers with additional crop production as phytopharmaceutical or nutraceutical crops.
4256681| Rue was one of the main medicinals in the European folk tradition, and it was also considered an important means of protection against supernatural evil in many parts of the world. All of the primary ethnobotanical sources from Spain were reviewed for information about the uses and importance of this plant. The data were analyzed for both content and geographical distribution. The most frequent applications relate to medicinal, veterinary, or protective virtues. The results show a high correspondence of the main medicinal uses to the pharmaceutically demonstrated properties of the plant: emenagogue and abortifacient; digestive; improve circulation; treat rheumatism; treat infections and inflammation; to relieve pain, and remove parasites among others. Most of the uses cited for Spain occur in several areas of the country, showing a high degree of homogeneity of the ethnobotanical knowledge of these species in Spain. The main recipes and applications are discussed. /// La ruda es una de las principales plantas medicinales en la tradicin europea, y se considera tambin un importante medio de proteccin contra el mal sobrenatural en muchos lugares del mundo. Se han revisado los datos sobre el uso e importancia de esta planta en todas las principales publicaciones etnobotnicas de Espaa. Se analizan la frecuencia y distribucin geogrfica de los datos; las aplicaciones ms frecuentes estn relacionadas con virtudes medicinales, veterinarias y protectoras. Los resultados muestran una gran coincidencia entre los principales usos medicinales y las virtudes farmacuticamente probadas de la planta: emenagoga y abortiva, digestiva, circulatoria, antirreumtica, antisptica y antiinflamatoria, analgsica y repelente contra los parsitos, entre otras. La mayora de los usos mencionados en Espaa coinciden en lugares alejados entre s, lo que muestra un alto grado de homogeneidad en el conocimiento etnobotnico sobre esta planta en Espaa. Se comentan las principales recetas y aplicaciones. 
27807238|Traits providing perceptual distinctiveness (PD), which allow less commercial farmers in developing countries to recognize and name individual landraces, enable the creation and management of their diversity and the transfer of knowledge of each to other farmers and succeeding generations. Worldwide examples illustrate how PD traits on seeds and vegetative propagules help maintain genetic purity and provide markers at planting time, identifying landraces suitable for planting at particular locations and times and for future household and market needs. PD traits on the yield also enable household members and customers to identify and value landraces for different uses. To fulfill these roles, they are generally highly salient, restricted in number, environment-independent, qualitatively inherited, generally with expression based on one or a few genes, and often culturally significant. Even so, they are seldom mentioned as varietal selection criteria by farmers, who may be unaware of their importance, or in plant breeding programs and in situ conservation of plant genetic resources projects; the need for national variety release committees and policymakers in developing countries to include them is emphasized.
4254796|Agricultural production in the arid Southwest is heavily dependent upon water for irrigation. If current trends of water use continue, the amount of water available to agriculture in the year 2000 will only meet approximately 50% of the needs of currently available irrigated crop land. Development of new crops with low irrigation needs is of highest priority. None of the major crop plants of the world is well adapted to arid lands. However, in the Sonoran Desert, more than 375 species of noncultivated food plants have been identified, and approximately 40 of these served as major local food resources for native people in the region. Research and development of new crops must address the issues of water use, productivity, chemical composition, and quality. Domestication of native species that have evolved and became adapted to arid conditions in the Southwest is considered to be a good strategy. Research and development programs on such native, new crops as guayule, jojoba, and buffalo gourd are well underway. New domestication programs involving Cuphea species for medium-chain fatty acids, Lesquerella species for hydroxy fatty acids, Grindelia camporum for resin production, and interspecific hybrids of Baccharis for landscape plant materials are described. The role of the USDA Agricultural Research Service, state agricultural experiment stations, and industry in the development of new crops is discussed.
4256742| This study documents 354 species of wild edible plants consumed in southern Ecuador, an area with a very high species diversity. Southern Ecuador is inhabited by Mestizo farmers and by small communities of indigenous Shuar and Saraguros. The majority (85%) of the 354 species have edible fruits. Various regional food and drink preparations in which wild plants are used are described. Most (86%), however, are consumed raw. Thirtyeight percent have additional uses, primarily as fuelwood and timber. The fruits or other edible parts of 21 species are sold at local and regional markets. Three new species were discovered during this study. /// Este estudio presenta 354 especies de plantas silvestres comestibles para el sur del Ecuador, una zona con alta diversidad de plantas. La poblacin consiste de agricultores mestizos y pequeas comunidades de indgenas Shuar y Saraguros. La mayora de las plantas (85%) tienen frutos comestibles. Se describen varias preparaciones regionales de comidas y bebidas en las cuales se utilizan plantas silvestres. La mayora de las plantas (86%) se comsumen an crudas. El 38% de las plantas tienen usos adicionales, siendo las ms importantes para lea o madera. Se venden los frutos u otras partes comestibles de 21 especies en los mercados locales y regionales. Tres nuevas especies fueron descubiertas durante este estudio. 
4252892|Certain combined characteristics of cellular structure and starch properties provide distinctions between varieties of potatoes and bear strong relation to their culinary qualities. Larger tissue cells and larger average starch granules are associated with mealiness. Smaller cells and starch granules characterize the less mealy and "waxy" varieties. Similarly, the same general relationships hold for the varietal characteristics of high vs. low solids and high vs. low starch contents. Within a variety, proportionately larger numbers of large starch granules are associated with tubers of high specific gravity, and more smaller granules, with low specific gravity. There also is a distinct reduction in percent of small granules during storage of tubers. Differences in starch granule size are accompanied by differences in amylose and amylopectin. Small granules contain less amylose and gel at higher temperatures than do the larger starch granules. Amylose content likewise appears to be a varietal characteristic. These variations in amylose content reflect fundamental differences in the properties of the starch gels formed when different varieties of potatoes are cooked. Likewise, there are similar distinctions between the starches within different tissue zones of individual tubers. Cell size also varies characteristically within different tuber regions. Starch gel properties may be manipulated during processing by such treatments as precooking-heating, chilling, freezing, and thawing. These treatments provide some measure of control of textural quality in the finished product. Additives such as stearates or glycerides complex readily with amylose and also influence gel properties and texture in processed potato products. Sucrose accumulated during tuber storage also may increase gel strength and influence texture. Varietal differences in cell structure and in starch granule size and composition offer opportunities for genetic exploitation. The merits of special processing for texture control vs. development of varieties for specific processed product qualities are briefly discussed.
41242891|The aim of this study is to compare a list of plants blessed in herbal bouquets on Assumption Day (August 15th) in Poland over a century ago with the bouquets blessed in the same locations in 2009. Assumption Day has been the main occasion when plants are blessed in Polish Roman Catholic churches for centuries. Such bouquets, composed of medicinal herbs and crop plants, are long believed to possess apotropaic properties. In 1894-1899, Seweryn Udziela made an herbarium documenting the composition of these bouquets (over 100 species) in 13 locations in the Krakow area. In 2009, 482 bouquets were photographed on Assumption Day and the plant species were identified. Results indicate that only half the species from Udziela's list are still blessed. A total of 233 taxa were found in the bouquets in 2009, an average of nine species per bouquet. The proportion of cultivated ornamentals has increased over time, whereas the proportion of wild species and dry grassland plants has decreased. The proportion of crop plants, as well as species from grassland and forest habitats, remained the same. The most commonly blessed species were Solidago spp., Tanacetum vulgre, Dahlia sp., Sanguisorba officinails, Anethum graveolens, Achillea millefolium, Mentha spp., Zinnia elegans, Triticum sp., Avena sativa, and Sorbus aucuparia. The tradition of blessing bouquets continues, although the composition of the plant species has changed. These changes are due to alterations in the surrounding vegetation and the species of plants in cultivation, the transformation of species' value from medicinal and apotropaic, the maintenance of floral traditions, and artistic competition. Mozliwo przeprowadzenia diachronicznych bada porwnawczych XIX-wiecznego studium etnobotanicznego udokumentowanego arkuszami zielnikowymi ze stanem obecnym jest rzadk okazj dla etnobotanika. Celem tych bada byo porwnanie listy rolin wiconych w okolicach Krakowa w dniu Matki Boskiej Zielnej (15 sierpnia) na przefomie XIX i XX wieku oraz obecnie. Zielna jest najwazniejszym momentem w roku, kiedy wici si zioa w kociotach rzymskokatolickich. Bukietom tym, zoonym z zi i plonw przypisywano te wasnoci apotropaiczne. Prawdopodobnie w latach 1894-99 Seweryn Udziela zebra zielnik zoony z ponad stu gat. rolin wiconych w okolicach Krakowa w 13 miejscowociach. W roku 2009 w dniu MB Zielnej zrobiono zdjcia cyfrowe 482 bukietom wiconych w miejscowociach, ktre bada wczeniej Udziela. Jedynie okoto pofowa wiconych dawniej gatunkw rolin leczniczych jest w bukietach obecnie. W r. 2009 zanotowano 233 taksony rolin, rednio dziewi na bukiet. Wzrs udziat gatunkw kwiatw ozdobnych, a zmala udzia gatunkw suchych muraw i pastwisk. Udzia przedstawicieli pozostatych grup (roliny k wilgotnych i oglnokowe, runo lene, drzewa i krzewy, roliny uprawne) pozostat na podobnym poziomie.
4254906|A sample of 106 wild forms and 99 landraces of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) from Middle America and the Andean region of South America were screened for variability in phaseolin seed protein using one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS/PAGE) and two-dimensional isoelectric focusing SDS/PAGE. The Middle American wild forms exhibited phaseolin patterns similar to the 'S' pattern described previously in cultivated forms, as well as a wide variety of additional banding patterns-'M' (Middle America) types-not encountered among common bean cultivars. The Andean wild forms showed only the 'T' phaseolin pattern, also described previously among cultivated forms. Landraces from Middle America showed 'S' or 'S'-like patterns with the exception of 2 lines with 'T' phaseolin. In Andean South America, a majority of landraces had the 'T' phaseolin. Additional types represented in that region were (in decreasing order of frequency) the 'S' and 'C' types (already described among cultivated forms) as well as the 'H' (Huevo de huanchaco) and 'A' (Ayacucho), (new patterns previously undescribed among wild and cultivated beans). In each region-Middle America and Andean South America-the seeds of landraces with 'T' phaseolin were significantly larger than those of landraces with 'S' phaseolin. No significant differences in seed size were observed among landraces with 'T,' 'C,' 'H,' and 'A' phaseolin types of the Andean region. Our data favor 2 primary areas of domestication, one in Middle America leading to small-seeded cultivars with 'S' phaseolin patterns and the other in the Andes giving rise to large-seeded cultivars with 'T' (and possibly 'C,' 'H,' and 'A') phaseolin patterns.
4255918| This paper values the savanna woodland resources of two neighbouring villages in Zimbabwe. Households receive a diverse range of products from a variety of ecologically contrasting sites, and a large number of products are marketed. Whilst the rules and regulations regarding tree-based resources are similar in the two villages, there is a greater degree of enforcement in Jinga, where ecological sustainability is also more promising. Using a derived demand approach, it was found that, in both villages, fuelwood for household cooking, wild fruits and poles are the most important in terms of contribution to total value. The total values obtained for the woodland products investigated are sizeable by comparison to annual cash income. Non-market values (water retention, rainmaking functions, etc.) were ranked highly during participatory rural appraisal techniques. The valuation of a select range of products based on market prices is thus a small component of total economic value. /// Este artigo avalia os recursos da floresta de savana de duas aldeias adjacentes no Zimbabwe. As famlias recebem uma srie de produtos de uma variedade de locais ecologicamente diferentes, e grande nmero dos produtos so comercializados. Enquanto que as leis e regulamentos em relao aos recursos derivados de rvores so semelhantes nas duas aldeias, existe um major cumprimento da lei em Jinga, onde a sustentabilidade ecolgica  tambem mais promissora. Usando um mtodo derivado de avaliao, verifocou-se que, em ambas as aldeias, lenha para cozinhar, frutos silvestres e estacas so mais importantes em termos de contribuio para o valor total. Os valores totais obtidos dos produtos florestais investigados so considerveis comparados com o rendimento anual. Valores no-comerciveis (reteno de gua, funes de produzir chuva, etc.) foram classificadas no topo da lista durante as tcnicas de diagnstico participativo rural. A avaliao de uma srie de productos selecionados, baseada em preos de mercado,  assim, uma pequena componente do valor econmico total. 
4255406| Madia sativa, a "tarweed" long used in the past for its oily seeds by the natives of both Pacific North America and southern South America where it still grows wild, has potential as a future oil crop. /// Madia sativa, una "melosa" largamente utilizada en el pasado por sus semillas oleaginosas por los Nativos del Pacfico de Norte Amrica y del Pacfico Sur de Sud Amrica donde todavia crece silvestre, es potencialmente importante como un futuro cultivo oleaginoso. 
4256179| There may have been 4-5 million people in Amazonia at the time of European contact. These people cultivated or managed at least 138 plant species in 1492. Many of these crop genetic resources were human artifacts that required human intervention for their maintenance, i.e., they were in an advanced state of domestication. Consequently, there was a relationship between the decline of Amazonian Amerindian populations and the loss of their crop genetic heritage after contact. This relationship was influenced by the crop's degree of domestication, its life history, the degree of landscape domestication where it was grown, the number of human societies that used it, and its importance to these societies. Amazonian crop genetic erosion probably reflects an order of magnitude loss and the losses continue today. /// A Amaznia poderia ter tido de 4 a 5 milhes de habitantes quando os Europeus chegaram. Estes povos cultivaram ou manejaram pelo menos 138 espcies vegetais em 1492. Muitos destes recursos genticos eram artefatos humanos que requeriam a interveno humana para sua manuteno, ou seja, estavam num estado avanado de domesticao. Conseqentemente, existiu uma relao entre o declnio das populaes indgenas da Amaznia e a perda de seus recursos genticos aps o contato. Esta relao foi influenciada pelo grau de domesticao do cultivo, sua histria de vida, o grau de domesticao da paisagem em que foi cultivada, o nmero de sociedades indgenas que o utilizou, e sua importncia a estas sociedades. A eroso dos recursos genticos indgenas da Amaznia provavelmente reflete uma perda de um ordem de magnitude e as perdas continuam hoje. 
4287896|Steroidal saponins, possible precursors for cortisone synthesis, have been found to be absent in Crotalaria spectabilis Roth. Qualitative results were obtained for flavonols, alkaloids, tannins, unsaturated sterols, and organic acids. A characteristic infrared spectrum has been established for the toxic alkaloid, monocrotaline. The results of a routine drug analysis have been reported.
4255519|Alteration of forested land to other uses incurs costs to a nation's economy that are frequently not calculated in estimates of national productivity. Alternative methods of value are discussed and employed to evaluate the non-timber products of India's tropical deciduous forests. Many undervalued resources found in these forests are described, and monetary value ascribed to them, to demonstrate the importance of the resources to the Indian economy.
4287941|A high-yielding, naturally occurring source of ephedrine, Ephedra gerardiana, and a closely associated factory, gives West Pakistan a virtual world monopoly for the naturally produced drug.
4255212| The history of use, botanical identification, and known chemical constituents of Justicia pectoralis (Acanthaceae), one of the South American hallucinogens, are reviewed. /// A histria do uso, identificao botnica, e constituintes qumicos conhecidos de Justicia pectoralis (Acanthaceae), uma das plantas halucingenas sul-americanas, so revistos. 
4256329| Isatis tinctoria L. (Brassicaceae), commonly known as woad, is a biennial species with erect stem, hastate leaves, and yellow flowers clustered in racemes. Fruits are pendulous siliques. This species, probably indigenous of southeastern Asia, was used for the extraction of a dyeing agent called "indigo." Woad was introduced in ancient times in Italy and the first records of its cultivation date back to the Roman period. For many centuries, woad cultivation remained stable, but grew dramatically in the eighteenth century. In that century, the Societ Economiche established by Bourbons encouraged the cultivation of it in Southern Italy. Near Caserta, in Campania region (Italy), a factory for the extraction of dyeing agents was established and the dye was used in textile production in San Leucio (Caserta). The cultivation of I. tinctoria is abandoned today, although this species grows spontaneously as a weed in Italy. The authors discuss the history of woad and some ancient extractive and dyeing methods. /// Isatis tinctoria L. (Brassicaceae), il guado,  una specie biennale con foglie astate e fiori gialli riuniti in racemi. I frutti sono silique pendule. Questa specie, probabilmente originaria dell'Asia sud orientale, era usata per l'estrazione di un principio colorante, l'indaco. Il guado fu introdotto in Italia in tempi antichi e le prime informazioni relative alla sua coltivazione risalgono agli antichi Romani. Per molti secoli la coltivazione del guado rimase stabile, ma nel diciottesimo secolo sub un notevole incremento, poich le "Societ Economiche" volute dai Borboni incoraggiarono la coltivazione di I. tinctoria nell'Italia meridionale. Vicino Caserta (Campania, Italia) fu impiantata una fabbrica per l'estrazione del principio colorante che era utilizzato nella manifattura tessile di San Leucio (Caserta). Verso la met del diciannovesimo secolo, la coltivazione del guado fu abbandonata; attualmente tale specie si ritrova allo stato selvatico. In questo contributo gli autori riportano la storia della coltivazione del guado ed alcuni antichi metodi di estrazione del principio attivo e di colorazione. 
4257219|Acclimated and non-acclimated potted plants of Sanguinaria canadensis L. were harvested at early and late dormancy, anthesis, and immature and mature fruiting stages. Sanguinarine content and concentration were determined for rhizomes (distal, proximal, and middle sections), roots, leaves, flower, and fruit. Rhizomes had highest sanguinarine content and concentrations, and exhibited decreasing concentration gradients from the distal to proximal third. Concentrations in roots were a tenth of rhizome concentration. Concentrations in leaves, flowers, and fruit were one-thousandth of rhizome concentration. Sanguinarine content in whole acclimated plants was constant. Content in whole non-acclimated plants increased as the plant became physiologically active, but was constant during fruit maturation: content in roots, leaves, and fruit did not change. The substantial increase in whole-plant dry weight coupled with the unchanging sanguinarine content during fruit maturation suggests either a shift in photosynthate allocation from defense to growth, or a constant turnover of sanguinarine.
4254138|Cocolmeca (the Phaseolus metcalfei group) are leguminous root perennials of the uplands (1,000-2,500 m elevation) of southwestern North America. Their cultural significance has been underestimated both within and beyond their natural range, where they have been utilized in prehistoric and historic times. Ambiguities in both scientific taxonomy and folk taxonomy obscure the fact that both P. metcalfei and P. ritensis have been widely used as systemic medicine, food, in fermentation, as forage, and as glue. The use of the seeds as green and dried bean foods was historically extensive, but was abandoned due to changes in Indian subsistence patterns and in the availability of the plants themselves. Herb dealers today are responsible for transport of the roots as far north as the Navajo in Utah; it is suggested that cross-cultural merchants may have been responsible for their diffusion historically or even prehistorically. Bean seed from the two species contain 20.5-30.9% crude protein. Germ plasm conservation and screening are needed in order to evaluate further the potential of these species as cultivated food and forage crops for semiarid uplands.
4254641| Guaran (Paullinia cupana) is a woody vine or sprawling shrub native to the central Amazon Basin. The seeds are commercially produced on some 6,000 ha in the state of Amazonas near Manaus. The principal article of commerce is an amber-colored, carbonated soft drink. It is also widely used as a high caffeine stimulant and in local medicines. The plant is monoecious and is damaged by a number of diseases, the most severe being anthracnose. Prospects are excellent for greatly expanded international markets. 
4254609|Plants have served for human adornment in India for millennia. Their use as ornaments and cosmetics is not only ancient but survives to the present time. In addition to decoration, adornment is often regarded as having amuletic powers or is used as social diacritical marks. Over 165 plant species used for human adornment in India have been identified from the literature and by personal observations. This study points out the importance of plants as human adornment both to aboriginal groups and modern urban and rural Indians. The widespread employment of vegetal materials for adornment indicates that in India they have traditionally been more important for this use than have mineral or animal substances.
4288004|Teak plantations have been established in Trinidad to provide first quality timber for the future. Thinnings from the teak plantations are being utilized by the "Brickfield Forest Industries" which produces fences, building and construction lumber, and creosoted posts and poles.
4257143|The indigenous people of Australia have a long and well-documented history of using native plants as an essential component of their customary economy. However, few have engaged successfully in commerce based on native plant use. Recently there has been an increasing interest in exploring options for use of native plants for food, food additives, botanical medicines, and related purposes. In this paper, we determine the issues important to Aboriginal people in enterprise development utilizing plant products, and we define some of the factors affecting progress in realizing opportunities. The Aboriginal people with whom we have worked appear to prefer small-scale enterprises where they have community ownership of ideas and control of the rate and direction of development. Government could play a larger and more active role through supporting additional research and marketing information, providing training, and better matching policy and legislation to support indigenous development and reduce dependence of welfare.
40390480|In this paper, we characterize the harvest and sale of wild mushrooms in Javier Mina (Tlaxcala state, Mexico) based on observations made during visits to that community during the rainy seasons of 1995 and 2001. While there, we visited the forests with various families of mushroom gatherers and also carried out 16 visits to a local mushroom broker to obtain information on the buying and selling of the mushrooms, including a list of the prices per kilo of the species that are sold commercially. Boletus cf. pinophilus, Lyophyllum cf. decastes, Hebeloma aff. mesophaeum and the Amanite caesarea complex were the highest-priced species, and were those collected in the greatest amounts. Our observations indicate that the gathering of mushrooms, a traditional activity among the people of Javier Mina, contributes, through the sale of the mushrooms, to the income of the community during the rainy season. /// Recoleccin y venta de hongos silvestres en una comunidad de Tlaxcala, Mxico. El objetivo de este trabajo es describir el proceso de recoleccin y venta de hongos silvestres en Javier Mina, Tlaxcala. Para describir estas actividades se realizaron visitas a los bosques con varias familias recolectoras de hongos durante las pocas de lluvias de 1995 y 2001. Adems, se realizaron 16 visitas a un distribuidor local para registrar informacin con respecte a la compra y venta de los hongos. Se obtuvo un Jistado de los precios por kilo de los hongos que se comercializan. Boletus cf. pinophilus, Lyophyllum cf. decastes, Hebeloma aff. mesophaeum y Amanite caesarea complex fueron los hongos recolectados en mayor cantidad durante este estudio, mismos que tuvieron los precios mas altos de compra-venta. Se conduye que la recoleccin de hongos es una actividad tradicional para la gente de Javier Mina; sin embargo, la venta de stos, contribuye a la obtencin de ingresos durante la temporada de lluvias.
40686780|This paper documents the role that fibrous plants play in rural economies of farming communities in southwestern Uganda. Thirty-five plant species from 20 plant families are used to weave baskets, stretchers, granaries, and protective coverings for clay pots. These products play a crucial role in local culture, the local economy, and social institutions as well as in food security due to their use in carrying, processing, or storing crops. Lianas (Loeseneriella apocynoides, Smilax anceps, and to a lesser extent, Cyphostemma bambuseti, Flabellaria paniculata, Hippocratea odongensis, Salacia elegans, and Urera hypselodendron) are the most important plant life-forms used, followed by bamboo (Sinarundinaria alpina). The extent of use of plant species for granaries varied significantly with altitude, vegetation type, and land-cover across the wide altitudinal range of the study area (1,440-2,600 m asl). Granaries used by farmers at lower altitudes used a higher diversity of species compared to those at a higher altitude, where 82% of granaries were constructed from bamboo (Sinarundinaria alpina). Tightly woven, durable granaries are important for food storage and therefore to the food security and sustainable livelihoods of subsistence farmers. Where length, strength, and durability of weaving fibers were required, such as for stretchers (engozi) used as local "ambulances," only two liana species were favored. The most commonly used species was the forest liana Loeseneriella apocynoides (Celastraceae), used for up to 77% of engozi stretchers and 83% of tea-picking baskets. While most species are abundant and can be sustainably harvested, L. apocynoides is overexploited, posing problems for local people and the national park.
4251937|Does the production of proteinaceous food by extensive cultivation of baker's yeast in England and Germany during the recent war presage an eventual source of supplementary food for the world through the utilization of microorganisms?
4254533|The damaging effects of UV-B radiation have apparently affected the amounts of ultraviolet-absorbing secondary compounds in some plants. A similar role for 
4255498|This is a study of the role of Para rubber cultivation in a system of swidden agriculture in Indonesian Borneo. Such smallholdings produce most of Indonesia's rubber, which is the country's largest agricultural generator of foreign exchange. Rubber integrates well into Bornean systems of swidden agriculture: the comparative ecology and economy of Para rubber and upland swidden rice result in minimal competition in the use of land and labor-and even in mutual enhancement-between the two systems. Rubber occupies a distinct niche in the farm economy: it meets the need for market goods, while the swiddens meet subsistence needs. The intensity of production on these smallholdings is, as a result, characteristically low (and may even vary inversely with market prices). This reflects the independence of these smallholders from external economic and political influences, which has been the key to their historical success. The special virtues of such "composite systems" merit greater attention by development planners. / Penilitian ini mempelajari peranan karet rakyat sebagai pasangan bagi sistem perladangan di Kalimantan-Indonesia. Perkebunan karet rakyat merupakan penghasil utama karet Indonesia, yang merupakan penyumbang pertanian terbesar bagi devisa negara. Karet rakyat membaur dengan baik dalam sistem perladangan di Kalimantan: pembandingan ekologi dan ekonomi antara karet rakyat dan sistem perladangan menunjukkan persaingan yang minimum dalam pemakaian lahan dan tenaga kerja-dan bahkan saling menguntungkan-antara kedua sistem tersebut. Karet rakyat menempati kedudukan yang penting dalam ekonomi usaha para peladang: yaitu memenuhi kebutuhan barang-barang pasar, sedangkan sistem perladangan memenuhi kebutuhan pokok hidup. Intensitas produksi perkebunan karet rakyat oleh karena itu, brasanya agak rendah (yang kadang-kadang berbeda berbalikan dengan harga pasar). Hal ini menggambarkan ketidak-bergantungan petani karet pada pengaruh-pengaruh ekonomi dan politik dari luar, dan ini merupakan kunci sukses mereka. Hal-hal khusus yang menguntungkan dari sistem terpadu ini patut mendapatkan perhatian yang lebih besar dari perencana-perencana pembangunan.
4254298|Percentage digestible dry matter (in vitro) and crude protein concentrations were determined for 40 species of aquatic weeds. Concentrations of digestible dry matter and crude protein in some aquatic weeds were comparable to those of conventional forage species.
4253463|This is a preliminary survey of the use of plants for medicinal purposes in the Samoan Islands, the purpose of which is to pioneer the way for a more detailed study of specific plants and remedies. In addition to a survey of the literature, in 1961 and 1962 interviews were conducted in Samoa to determine what plants were being used medicinally by the Samoans at the time. The local names, habits, descriptions, plant parts used, and uses of 154 species (146 angiosperms, 4 ferns, and 4 nonvascular cryptogams) are presented in tabular form.
4254136| The data reported in the literature and recent analyses of the composition of Palmaria palmata (Rhodymenia palmata) are compiled and discussed. The reported values have a relatively wide spread ranging from 73-89% moisture and, on a dry weight basis, 12-37% ash, 8-35% crude protein, 38-74% carbohydrate and 0.2-3.8% lipid. Some of the variation can be attributed to seasonal and nutritional conditions. P. palmata has potassium, chlorine and sodium as its major mineral constituents and, in comparison to terrestrial fruits and vegetables, is a good source of iron, magnesium, calcium and iodine. Vitamin A (as carotene) and, in the fresh plant, vitamin C, are present in appreciable amounts. P. palmata is potentially a high protein food source, and its protein quality rates well with vegetables of good nutritional value. The major polysaccharide is a -(1  3) and -(1  4) linked xylan. P. palmata is a natural source of desmosterol. 
4255465| Charred parenchymous tissue was recovered from Byzantine levels at the site of Sparta, Greece. On examination, using morphological and histological characteristics it was identified as being turnip, Brassica campestris ssp. rapifera (Metzg.) Sinsk. This discovery is of great significance in the study of the site, and also of Byzantine economy. / Restos biolgicos para anlisis medio ambientales fueron recuperados en la excavacin de los niveles bizantinos del yacimiento de Esparta. Una de las muestras contena tejido parenquimatoso carbonizado identificado como parte de una raz de Brassica campestris ssp. rapifera (Metzg.) Sinsk., es decir nabo. En este artculo se describen los restos carbonizados y se sintetiza el proceso de identificacin seguido. La existencia de restos de este tubrculo en este yacimiento se explica en relacin a los recursos alimenticios bizantinos y a la economa del yacimiento. 
4255832| Experiments based on four accessions of maca (Lepdium meyenii) disclosed higher developmental rates in plants grown in neutral pH (6.6) soil when compared with those grown in acidic soil (5.3). Photoperiod response studies revealed similar growth rate for plants grown under either long day or short day condition. Plants in the field and growth chambers completed their life cycle in 11 months or less, therefore maca can be considered an annual crop. These results suggest that the range of adaptation of maca is not as narrow as previously believed, and therefore it can be successfully produced outside its natural habitat. Chromosome counts and predominance of bivalents in diakinesis and metaphase I disclosed that maca is a disomic octoploid of 2n=8x=64 chromosomes. Field and growth chamber observations and morphological uniformity of the plants within accessions indicate that maca relies mainly on self-fertilization for its reproduction. /// Experimentos basados en cuatro colectas de maca revelaron mayor desarrollo en suelos de pH neutro (6.6) que en suelos de pH cido (5.3). Estudios sobre respuesta al fotoperodo demostraron razones de crecimiento similares bajo das cortos o das largos. Las plantas tanto en cmaras de crecimiento como en los campos experimentales de Davis, desarrollaron hipocotilos normalmente, sugiriendo que el rango de adaptacin de esta especie es amplio y puede producirse fuera de su habitat natural. Las plantas completaron su desarrollo en 11 meses, lo que indica que la maca es una especie anual. Determinaciones cromosmicas revelaron en meiosis la presencia de 32 bivalentes durante diakinesis y metafase I, revelando que la maca es una especie octoploide de constitucin 2n=8x=64. Observaciones en el campo y cmaras de crecimiento asi como uniformidad de plantas dentro de cada colecta, indican que la maca se reproduce principalmente por autopolinizacin. 
4254801|The use of herbal remedies for the treatment of reproductive health problems and the management of reproduction is still nearly universal in many indigenous communities throughout modern Mexico. This paper describes the medicinal plants and related substances used for childbirth, fertility regulation, and the treatment of reproductive disorders in a bilingual Chinantec-Spanish speaking township in highland Oaxaca. The discussion focuses on how the group's ideas about reproduction and reproductive physiology influence their selection of these plant species.
4256161| Vedic and early post-Vedic Sanskrit works describe Indo-Aryan life in northern India during 2000-200 B.C. Wild and cultivated plants of the Cucurbitaceae played an important role in Indo-Aryan food, medicine, and culture; over 300 words describing cucurbits are found in the Sanskrit texts. These words, their etymological relationships, and the geographies of the cucurbit taxa were compared. Results indicate that the Indo-Aryas knew only a handful of cucurbits before entering the Indian subcontinent from the west. They learned of at least 11 more species from their neighbors in India, who were speakers of Dravidian or Munda languages. /// La literatura de snscrito vdico y post-vdico antiguo describe la vida indoario en el norte de la India durante 2000-200 a. de J.C. Las cucurbitcea silvestres y domesticadas eran importante para la comida, la medicina, y la cultura indoario: ms que 300 palabras describen las cucrbitas en la literatura snscrito. Estas palabras, sus etimologas, y las geografas de las cucrbitas eran estudiado. Resultos indican que los indoarios saban solamente unos cucrbitas antes de entrar en el subcontinente indio desde el oeste. Aprendiaron de 11 especies ms de parte de sus vecinos en la India, ellos quienes hablaban un idioma drvida o austroasitico. 
4256775| For the Bribri and the Cabecar Indians of Costa Rica the environment is divided in two: the "near", indigenous space; and the "far", natural space, which they think does not belong to them. In the former, the following agroecosystems can be distinguished according to biodiversity and intensity of human activity: tropical home garden, rotating slash-and-burn agriculture, plantain polyculture, and plantain monoculture. In the "far" space, these two culturally close groups harvest wild plants observing ancestral rules, which have helped ensure a sustainable use of forest resources. Their diet is based on 84 species, of which 24 are harvested in the "far" environment (hombrn, semko, platanillo, tacaco, etc.) and 60 are obtained in the "near" environment (maize, bean, cacao, manioc, etc.). Owing to acculturation, exotic species (mainly rice, sugarcane, plantain, cacao and citrus fruit) have become part of their diet and crops. /// Los indgenas bribris y cabcares de Costa Rica consideran que su entorno se divide en dos: el "cercano" o indgena, y el "lejano" o espacio natural, que no les pertenece. En el espacio "cercano," en funcin de las biodiversidad presente y la intensidad de la actividad humana, se distinguen los siguientes agroecosistemas: huerto tropical indgena, la agricultura rotativa de roza y quema, el policultivo del pltano, y el monocultivo del pltano. En el espacio "lejano," estos dos etnias culturalmente cercanas recolectan plantas silvestres observando una reglas ancestrales, que aseguran un uso sustentable de los recursos del bosque primario. Su dieta se basa en 84 especies, de las que 24 son recolectadas en el espacio "lejano" (hombrn, semko, platanillo, tacaco, etc.) y 60 son obtenidas en el espacio "cercano" (maz, frijol, cacao, yuca, etc.). No obstante y debido a la transculturacin que han sufrido estas etnias, se han introducido en su dieta y en sus cultivos especies alctonas (como arroz, caa de azcar, pltano, coco y ctricos). 
4253763|A peach flowered form of Datura candida was cultivated and the effects of a nitrogen application, harvest date and leaf position on hyoscine yield were studied. Gas chromatographic analysis of leaves collected at successive nodes in the main axis showed that hyoscine as a percentage of the dry weight decreased as the leaf matured. The highest yield recorded was 0.56%. Rows of plants were harvested so that young regrowth leaves were collected at monthly intervals. There was little significant variation in hyoscine production, which averaged 0.34% over a nine month period. Datura candida is compared with a Duboisia hybrid which is an established source of hyoscine.
4255177| Geographical origin, naturalization, range in cultivation, bletting, uses, chemical constituents, etymology, morphology, relationships, hybridization, varieties, and life history of the medlar (Mespilus germanica, Rosaceae), a Eurasian fruit tree, are reviewed. Included are a proximate analysis of the fruit and an anatomical description of the wood. A selected chronology traces the plant's history to 1753. An appendix covers culture. /// Besprochen sind der geographische Ursprung, die Naturalisierung, die Verbreitung im Anbau, das Teigigwerden, die Benutzungen, die chemischen Bestandteile, die Etymologie, die Morphologie, die Verwandtschaften, die Kreuzung, die Varietten, und die Lebensgeschichte der Mispel (Mespilus germanica, Rosaceae), ein eurasiatischer Obstbaum. Eingeschlossen sind eine proximate Analyse des Fruchtes und eine anatomische Beschreibung des Holzes. Eine auserlesene Chronologie verfolgt die Geschichte der Pflanze bis 1753. Ein Anhang fasst die Kultivierung zusammen. 
4257057|The Shuhi are a Tibeto-Burman ethnic group of around 1,500 people living exclusively in the Shuiluo Valley, southwest China. We documented their plant knowledge concerning wild collected species, and analyzed food, medicine, and ritual uses. Overall, uses, collection sites, and use frequencies of 136 plant species were documented. The plants were divided in fodder (46 spp.), food (43 spp.), medicine (27 spp.), ritual plants (20 spp.), fuelwood (17 spp.), plants used for construction (8 spp.), ornamentals (2 spp.), and "others" (34 spp.). Food plants mainly consist of fruits and leafy vegetables, and the uses are comparable with those of other ethnic groups in the area. Knowledge about medicinal plants is relatively limited, since traditional Shuhi healers use ritual and other healing methods instead of medicinal plants. Ritual plants play an important role relative to human well-being. Villagers and ritualists use them to keep the environment clean of malevolent spirits and to maintain a good relationship with the deities. All habitats, from the dry shrub vegetation at the valley bottom up to the alpine shrub, are used for plant collection, but 87% of all species are collected in the near vicinity of the villages around the fields and in the dry shrub vegetation. Finally, we postulate two main factors influencing wild plant use among the Shuhi: cultural values and accessibility.
4255685| Velvetbean (Mucuna spp.), a vigorous climbing legume of Asian origin, is prominent among the plants currently promoted for use as a green manure and cover crop in the humid tropics. What is not so well known, however, is that the development and diffusion of cropping systems using velvetbean is the result of experimentation by numerous farmers and scientists spanning four centuries and at least eight countries. This article traces the movement of velvetbean and knowledge of its uses, with a view to identifying some of the conditions under which the crop has waxed and waned in the United States and Mesoamerica. Climatic factors, land and labor constraints, and market forces are discussed. The velvetbean story shows that agricultural innovation is neither static nor the purview of a privileged class of innovators. It also suggests that sustainable cropping practices such as green manuring should not be promoted as static models but rather as dynamic systems responsive to the changing conditions of farmers and the broader environment. / El frijol de abono (Mucuna spp.), una vigorosa leguminosa trepadora de origen asiatico, sobresale entre las plantas que en la actualidad estan siendo promovidas para usarse como abonos verdes o cultivos de cobertura en el tropico hmedo. Lo que no es de conocimiento tan comn es que el desarrollo y la difusin de los sistemas de cultivo que utilizan frijol de abono son el resultado de la experimentacin realizada por numerosos campesinos y cientficos en el transcurso de cuatro siglos y en al menos ocho pases. Este artculo rastrea el movimiento de la leguminosa y del conocimiento de sus usos, con miras a identificar las condiciones en las que se ha popularizado o ha cado en desuso en los Estados Unidos y Mesoamerica. Se examinan, ademas, los factores climticos, los factores limitantes de tierra y mano de obra, y las fuerzas del mercado. La historia del frijol de abono demuestra que la innovacin en la agricultura no es ni esttica ni exclusiva de una clase privilegiada de innovadores. Asimismo, sugiere que las prcticas agronmicas "sostenibles", como los abonos verdes, no deben promoverse como modelos estticos, sino como sistemas dinmicos que responden a las condiciones cambiantes de los agricultores y del medio ambiente en general. 
40390486|The Aborigines of central Australia have traditionally used desert truffles as food. Truffle hunting in the desert requires substantial ecological knowledge, as truffles occur sporadically and only with adequate and properly distributed rainfall as well as the presence of necessary soil conditions and mycorrhizal hosts. Truffles are hunted primarily by women, who look for cracks or humps in the soil caused by expansion of the truffles, which are then extracted with digging sticks. The truffles are typically eaten raw or baked or roasted in ashes. Seven truffle species are recorded from the Australian Outback, including three that have been only recently described.
4255233| The primitive center of origin of Citrus species has been a subject of speculation and discussion for some time. Japanese Citrus taxonomist Tanaka concluded that the center of origin was northeastern India and northern Burma. He ascribed a secondary role in the origin and distribution of Citrus species to Yunnan and surrounding areas of China on the basis of his belief that there were no important native species. These conclusions were based on incomplete information that was available over 30 yr ago, but important new evidence from Yunnan challenges Tanaka's ideas on the origin of Citrus species. This report describes the diversity of indigenous primitive and advanced Citrus species in Yunnan and the interaction of topography and climate with the geographic distribution of these species. Numerous river systems arise in or traverse Yunnan and flow to Burma, Indo-China, and southern and central China, thus providing a natural plant dispersal mechanism. The authors suggest that the substantial portion of the Citrus gene pool represented in the rich diversity of indigenous species reported in recent Chinese surveys and the available natural dispersal mechanism provide strong evidence that Yunnan and nearby areas of China played a critical role in the origin and distribution of modern Citrus species. /// El centro de origen de las especies del gnero Citrus ha sido tema de especulacin y discusin por mucho tiempo. El taxnomo japons Tanaka concluy que el centro de origen se situ en el noreste de la India y el norte de Burma. El atribuy un papel secundario a Yunnan y reas circundantes en base a su creencia que no haba especies nativas importantes en esa regin. Tales conclusiones se basaron en informacin incompleta de hace mas de 30 aos; sin embargo, existen evidencias que revierten las ideas de Tanaka acerca del origen del gnero Citrus. El presente trabajo describe la diversidad de Citrus spp. que existen en Yunnan, tanto primitivas como avanzadas, as como la interaccin entre la topografa y el clima con la distribucin geogrfica de esas especies. En Yunnan existen numerosos ros que fluyen hacia Burma, Indo-China, y centro y sur de China, proporcionando as un mecanismo natural de dispersin vegetal. Los autores del presente trabajo sugieren que la parte primordial del pool gentico de las especies del gnero Citrus est representada en la amplia diversidad de especies nativas encontradas en evaluaciones y recorridos recientes. Lo anterior junto con los mecanismos naturales de dispersin proporcionan firmes evidencias que Yunnan y reas circundantes en China jugaron un papel determinante en el origen y distribucin de las especies modernas de Citrus. 
4255799| In this autobiographical sketch, the author discusses the development of his interest in the biological sciences, crediting his father, his first employer, his high school science teacher, and his college pharmacognosy professor with initially shaping his career. His early work on ergot alkaloid biosynthesis and subsequently, together with students and colleagues, on the toxic constituents of basidiomycetes is detailed. This is followed by comments on his developing interest in the therapeutic utility of herbs and phytomedicinals. A concern with the beneficial use of such products stemmed largely from observations made during sabbatical leaves and frequent travel in Germany. The importance of such botanicals (not currently recognized as drugs in the United States) in our developing health-care system is emphasized. The author concludes his comments by thanking his wife, his teachers, his students, and his many colleagues and friends for their unstinting assistance and support during his entire career. /// In dieser autobiographischen Skizze spricht der Autor ber die Entfaltung seines Interesses an den biologischen Wissenschaften: sein Vater, sodann sein erster Arbeitgeber, sein Naturwissenschaftslehrer auf der hheren Schule, sowie-whrend seiner Studienjahre-sein Professor in Pharmakognosie seien die Mentoren, denen er diese berufliche Ausrichtung ursprnglich verdanke. Es folgen detaillierte Ausfhrungen betreffs seiner frhen Forschungsarbeiten ber Mutterkorn-alkaloide Biosynthese und-in Zusammenarbeit mit Studenten und Kollegen-die toxischen Bestandteile von Basidiomyzeten. Im Anschlu daran beschreibt der Autor, wie sein Augenmerk allmhlich auf die Frage der therapeutischen Verwertung Heilpflanzen und Phytopharmaka gelenkt wurde. Das Interesse an einer ntzlichen Verwendung solcher Produkte sei in erster Linie durch Beobachtungen angeregt worden, die er im Verlaufe verschiedentlicher Forschungsaufenthalte in Deutschland angestellt habe. Er betont die Bedeutung dieser (zu diesem Zeitpunkt in den USA nicht als Drogen geltenden) Pflanzen fr unser Gesundheitswesen, das stndig nach neuen Wegen und Lsungen suche. Abschlieend spricht der Autor seiner Frau, seinen Lehrern, Studenten, sowie seinen zahlreichen Kollegen und Freunden seine Anerkennung und seinen Dank fr deren unermdlichen Beistand auf smtlichen Stufen seiner langjhrigen Laufbahn aus. 
4256806|The effects of different concentrations of various macroelements on growth and endogenous GAs levels in root, stem, and leaf tissue of maize plants (Zea mays L.) were studied. Plants were cultivated in sand and supplied twice a week with a nutrient solution containing optimum, excessive, or deficient concentrations of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium, sulfur, and iron. Plants were harvested from three different periods: vegetation (4-5 leaves), flowering, and fruiting. The levels of gibberellic acid-like substances (
40390431|There is a general assumption in the study of folk taxonomy that those people who have been interacting with a given crop the longest have the most knowledge about the crop's names. We treated this as an hypothesis which can be tested with knowledge of cider apples. This use of apples extends back many generations in some places, while in other regions people are just learning to make cider. The experimental design is to assess quantitatively the cider apple diversity being used compared to the knowledge of this diversity by cider makers. The test involves two populations of cider makers: those who come from a long-standing tradition of cider making and those who recently learned to make cider. Research was conducted in parts of England, Wales, Northern Ireland, and Washington State, U.S.A. Semistructured interviews and questionnaires were used to elicit cider apple variety names. Traditional knowledge associated with cider production was also collected. Eightytwo cider apple variety names were obtained. In addition, it is estimated that between 111 and 328 varieties were recognized but could not be named. There was a significant difference between the cider apple cultivars that cider makers could name and those that they could discern. On average, cider makers could name eight varieties, but discern 16 varieties of cider apples largely on the basis of appearance, taste, and smell. There was no significant difference in the knowledge of cider apple variety names between long-standing cider makers and those that recently learned to make cider. As with cider apples, we would expect that farmers of other culturally-significant crops would not always know named diversity if there are other cues to let them track varietal difference, such as appearance, taste, or smell.
4251995|In 1948 almost 3,500,000 pounds of this oil were exported by Indonesia, Ceylon, Guatemala and Formosa. The United States is normally the principal consumer, finding many uses for it in perfuming soap, insect sprays, perfume formulas, menthol production, and for the manufacture of certain important synthetic organic chemicals. The Western Hemisphere has achieved a material degree of progress in its efforts at independence from distant sources of the Java type.
4287875|The authors here present evidence that Cucurbita moschata, of which numerous cultivated varieties are known and the nativity of which has been in doubt, is an indigenous species of Florida, and that the Seminole pumpkin, long used by the Floridian aborigines, is its prototype.
4252894|Tomato fruit (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. var. V. R. Moscow) harvested at the mature green stage were ripened by treatments with ethylene, oxygen, and oxygen plus ethylene. Treatments were made under dark and light conditions. Ethylene increased the ripening and respiration rates of the tomatoes. The fruit treated with ethylene had a general increase in beta carotene and lycopene when compared with untreated controls. The per cent acid was variable from year to year in the fruit treated with ethylene. The fruit ripened in ethylene had higher concentrations of citric acid than did the untreated controls. Treatments with oxygen decreased the reducing sugars and at the high concentrations used, had no effect on the rate of lycopene synthesis. Light treatments increased the per cent acid, reducing sugars, and color of the ripened fruit. The increase in color was related to an increase in both beta carotene and lycopene. Light treatment seemed to decrease the respiration rate of the fruit not treated with ethylene. Studies using
4251882|Tagua is the hard seed of a South American palm tree, highly valued for manufacture into buttons and other small articles requiring a hard, easily cut, lustrous material.
4254532|There is a remarkably high level of variation within cultivated sesame and sorghum in the Nuba Mountains of Sudan although the region is relatively small. The Nuba people are geographically isolated and culturally diverse in religion, language, material inventory, agricultural practices and in their rituals involving crop plants, and this contributes to the diversity in their cultivars. Nuba crop husbandry is sophisticated and high levels of genetic diversity are maintained by deliberate selection of crop varieties that are well adapted to each of the microenvironments of the region and best suited for different economic uses.
4254076|Northcentral Idaho traditionally produces in excess of 90% of the Austrian winter field peas (AWFP) grown in North America. AWFP are small-seeded, yellow cotyledon peas with purple-flecked seed coats which are produced on indeterminate vines bearing purplish flowers. The history of the AWFP industry in Idaho is reviewed from the initial introduction of AWFP from Austria in 1932 to the present. The potential for the future of this crop is explored.
4252480|Uses of 16 species of Hibiscus, section Furcaria DC., are discussed, with particular reference to kenaf (H. cannabinus L.) and roselle (H. sabdariffa L.), the two most important species grown commercially as fiber plants. Other uses of this versatile group include use as ornamentals and employment of various plant parts as food, medicine, wood for musical instruments, and in superstitious rites. Comparative morphology of certain vegetative and floral parts of 11 species and seeds of 12 species is discussed. Reaction of plants of 11 species to root-knot nematodes is reported. Ratings varied from highly susceptible to highly resistant; kenaf was more susceptible to nematodes than the other 10 species. Suggested origins, distribution, and genetic relationships of kenaf, roselle, and related species are treated.
4252422|Trees of Dyera, a small genus of the Apocynaceae, are characteristic of the rain forests in western Malaysia. The raw product prepared from the coagulated latex was formerly used in Malaya and elsewhere as an admixture with guttapercha (Palaquium spp.) and later as a substitute for Hevea rubber for purposes not requiring elasticity. During the past 50 years, trees of the 2 species of this genus have been the principal source in southeast Asia of a gutta-gum, exported in appreciable quantities to Europe and particularly to the United States.
4256287|Cleome viscosa, an annual herb locally known as Jakhiya, grows naturally from seed in rainfed agricultural land and abandoned crop fields at altitudes ranging from 500 to 1500 m in scattered pockets of the Garhwal Himalaya. The seeds are mostly used as condiment. This species is a good substitute of cumin (Cuminum cyminum). Traditionally it is also used to cure a variety of diseases. It provides, three times higher yield when maintained by the farmers as a pure crop compared to yield obtained in mixed cropping conditions. With other food commodities, it is exchanged by the traditional farmers of Garhwal with the people of the areas where it does not grow. Because of its increasing demand, it is being sold in the market and is gaining more and more popularity. Until now no systematic attempt has been made to study the ecological significance and economic potential of Cleome viscosa. This paper describes the agronomy, yield, cost-benefit analysis, uses, and ethnobotany of Cleome viscosa. Systematic efforts are needed to promote its cultivation on a larger scale in village community degraded land and in marginal agricultural land where traditional crops grow with difficulty.
27807214|Taro (Colocasia esculenta [L.] Schott) is a food crop that was domesticated in Asia and the Pacific region and is now grown in the humid tropics. Following its arrival in Africa in ancient times, it may have adapted to the drier environments. In this ethnographic study, I present a particular case of taro cultivation and uses by a group of farmers in the mountains of southwestern Ethiopia. There are 36 named cultivars of taro for which diversity is maintained through different cultivation techniques and culinary practices in wet and dry environments that vary in elevation. Because taro in dry lowland environments has recently been replaced by the introduction of new crops, it is possible that the drought-tolerant eddoe-type cultivars, which are traditionally dominant in Africa, are now in danger of disappearing.
4256837|Momordica charantia is grown in tropical areas for its edible fruit as well as other usages. Its original place of domestication is unknown. We collected accessions of both the domesticate and the wild-type from 43 locations in southern China, southeast Nepal, and northern Laos. Analysis of 26 isozyme loci does not clarify the place of domestication, but does strongly suggests that it was a single place because the domesticate from both Nepal and China are fixed for the same allele at all loci, including those five that are polymorphic in wild populations. Principal Components Analysis of morphological descriptors indicates that old cultivars from China are closer to the wild-type than are those from Nepal. Additional accessions, especially the wild-type, from India and Southeast Asia must be analyzed before the question of place of domestication can be fully understood. Seeds generally have higher concentrations of nutrients than the pericarp and there is little difference among accessions, whether wild or domesticated. /// [Abstract in Chinese]
4256834|The genus Fagraea comprises a diverse group of woody gentians that are renowned for having hard wood and fragrant, showy flowers. This diverse assemblage of approximately 70 species is distributed from Southeast Asia, Malesia, to the archipelagos of the Pacific Ocean. Fagraea species occupy important niches in forest ecosystems. These fast growing, pioneer species are an important component in natural succession after forest disturbance and provide food and shelter for many other forest species. The plants have played an important role in the lives of humans and have made their way into the legends of Polynesia. Fagraea plants are utilized by the Asian, Australian, Malesian, Melanesian, Micronesian, and Polynesian cultures for timber, weapons, crafts, medicine, and adornment. This paper is a comprehensive survey of the past and present uses of the species by these cultures and identifies the need for future scientific research on Fagraea.
4256020| Dipterocarpus alatus (Dipterocarpaceae) is native to the mainland of Southeast Asia, where its oleoresin is used by indigenous people for illumination and for waterproofing baskets and boats. In modern society it is used for paint, varnish and lacquer and the essential oil is used as a fixative in perfumes. This species is also important for its timber. Tapping, marketing and economic importance of this non-timber forest product in a Laotian village, is described here. Annual production of oleoresin per tapped tree is between 22.5 and 31.0 l and the price received by the tappers is US $0.30/l. The product represents a main source of cash income to many villagers and the recent approach by businessmen could indicate an increased demand. There are good possibilities to enhance revenues for the tappers by adding value to the product at the source. /// L'espce Dipterocarpus alatus est originaire de la zone continentale de l'Asie du sud-est, o l'olorsin est utilise par les populations indignes pour l'clairage et pour le calfatage des embarcations et des paniers. Dans la socit moderne elle est utilise dans la peinture, le vernis et la laque. L'huile essentielle est utilise comme lement de base des parfums. Cette espce est aussi importante pour son bois. La saigne, la vente et l'importance conomique pour un village Laotien sont traits ici. Le rendement moyen atteint de 22.5  31.0 litres par arbre et par an, et les collecteurs recoivent 0.30 dollars par litre. L'olorsin reprsente une source conomique considrable pour de nombreux villageois et la recente intert que les commerants apportent  l'olorsin pourrait signifier une augmentation de la demande. Il y a des possibilits considrables d'accroitre le revenue des collecteurs, si la valeur du produit  la source est augmente. 
4287825|Of the two dozen species of aconite native to India, thirteen are known to possess drug value. Some of the latter are in commercial trade and offer valuable substitutes for the more commonly used species of Europe. Their nomenclature is revised in this article, with proper consideration given to their habitats and chemical constituents in order to facilitate identification and standardization of this drug.
4251837|A plant which in one form contains deadly prussic acid and in other forms nourishes thousands of primitive people and furnishes tapioca to modern man.
4287901|Commercial methods are described for extracting carotenes and xanthophylls from alfalfa, carrots and palm oil. Utilization of these carotenoids as vitamin A precursors and coloring agents in margarines, dough products, pharmaceuticals, stock and poultry feeds is discussed.
4254457|So that valuable products from the neem tree (Azadirachta indica) will be readily available in the future, countries in the neotropics should emulate Haiti and grow the species where it thrives even in eroded, semiarid, depauperate areas suitable for few other trees.
4253922|There are few first-hand reports of drinking ayahuasca by residents of Amazonia, where use is widespread. One of us (F.A.F.), who lives in Iquitos, took ayahuasca 30 times during a three-year period between 1972 and 1974 in an attempt to experience all levels of hallucination. Although unable to achieve the ultimate goal of telepathy and extrasensory perception, this author clearly relates his repeated experiences within the three other levels of hallucination and also correlates these experiences with those of others he observed who drank ayahuasca at the same time.
4254684|Forty Cuphea species, recently collected in mid- and southern Mexico, are described in terms of their main morphological and agronomic characteristics. In some species, dormancy, slow germination, sticky hairs, and perennial character, as well as poor flowering and low seed yield limit their agronomic potential. However, some species of the section Heterodon show good crop potential. Among these, C. wrightii, C. glossostoma, and C. laminuligera seem to be the best lauric acid-synthesizing species. Of the capric acid species, C. paucipetala, C. lanceolata, and C. procumbens have the best growing potential in humid climates, whereas C. leptopoda and C. inflata are well adapted to arid growing conditions. All Cuphea species show seed shattering caused by flower zygomorphy. This zygomorphy not only causes different petal shape and a bilateral symmetry of the calyx tube, but also dispersal of the seeds. It represents the main taxonomic trait for characterizing the genus. Flowering and seed setting continue over a period of several weeks due to indeterminate growth. Multiple harvests with vacuum picking systems that do not damage the plants maximize recovered yields.
4256957|Effective conservation programs require data on both biodiversity and resource use. The rapid loss of biologically diverse areas adds urgency to the task. This study tests a forest valuation technique that provides essential data in a very short time on local resource use that can serve as a foundation for integrated conservation and development programming. This rapid interview method was tested by comparison with an intensive six-month technique. The data analyzed included the number of plant and animal species used and the calculated value in dollars per hectare per year ($/ha/yr) of different forest types for 67 families in three communities in the northern Peruvian Amazon. While the rapid ethnobiological method gave an accurate list of the most widely used species, accurate data on the quantities collected of these species and their relative values were substantially different from those in the long-term study. At present, the rapid survey is recommended only when necessary to provide data on the most useful species in order to prevent imminent forest destruction. We urge continued study of rapid methods to improve the accuracy of this potentially important conservation tool.
4255288| We studied species composition, similarity, and structure of homegardens in two Yucatecan Maya communities, Tixpeual and Tixcacaltuyub, Yucatan, Mexico. The number of gardens sampled per village was 20 and 22; total area sampled was very similar, 45,265 m
4255443| Cladistic and phenetic analyses of morphological, chloroplast DNA, and isozyme variation were used to examine relationships among multiple accessions of Sphenostylis stenocarpa, representing wild and cultivated populations from throughout the range of the species. In morphometric and isozyme analyses, greater variability was detected among wild than among cultivated populations, and no differentiation was found between races cultivated for tubers and those cultivated for seeds. cpDNA data, however, revealed five groups of plastomes within S. stenocarpa: one in accessions cultivated for tubers, one in accessions cultivated for seeds, and three among wild accessions. Linguistic evidence and observations on the uses of the species in its two main areas of cultivation suggest independent origins of tuber- and seed- cultivated races. The data support two alternative explanations for the distribution of extant cultivated accessions of S. stenocarpa. The first hypothesis is that the species was domesticated independently in western and central Africa, but that domestication events involved selection from a single restricted gene pool. The second hypothesis is that a single domestication event occurred in one of the two areas, but that human dispersal to the second area occurred prior to dispersal within either area. /// Se llevaron a cabo analisis cladsticos y fenticos de la variacin morfolgica, del ADN del cloroplasto y de las isoenzimas, para examinar las relaciones entre mltiples especmenes de Sphenostylis stenocarpa, que representan poblaciones silvestres y cultivadas de todo el rango de distribucin de la especie. En los analisis morfomtricos y de isoenzimas, se detect mayor variabilidad entre las poblaciones silvestres que entre las cultivadas, y no se encontraron diferencias entre las razas cultivadas para tubrculo y las cultivadas para semillas. El ADN del cloroplasto, sin embargo, revel cinco grupos de plastomas: uno en los especmenes cultivados para tubrculo, uno en los cultivados para semillas, y tres en los silvestres. Por otra parte, evidencias lingsticas y observaciones de los usos de la especie en sus dos principales areas de cultivo, sugieren un origen independiente de las razas cultivadas para tubrculo y de las cultivadas para semillas. Los datos soportan dos explicaciones alternativas de la distribucin de las formas cultivadas existentes de S. stenocarpa. La primera hiptesis es que la especie fue domesticada independientemente en el centro y en el oeste de Africa, pero ambos eventos involucraron seleccin a partir de un germoplasma nico y restringido. La segunda hiptesis es que hubo un nico evento de domesticacin en una de las dos reas, pero que la dispersin por humanos hacia la segunda rea ocurri antes que la dispersin dentro de la primera. 
4287989|The development and release of a new tomato variety which produces fruit containing approximately ten times the provitamin A content of common red tomatoes is announced. The beta-carotene values for Caro-Red are within the lower ranges reported for carrots. Present consumer usage of a variety such as Caro-Red will most likely be confined to use as a garden type where additional variety and flavor are desired.
40390472|Commercial black truffle (Tuber melanosporum) plantations have been promoted in Europe with the intention of benefiting rural economies while conserving biodiversity through the expansion of oak woodlands. In this context, a sodoeconomic study was conducted around the town of Sarrin in eastern Spain, where government subsidies have supported oak reforestation and truffle cultivation in unproductive hilly areas since 1987. Currently there are about 4,500 ha of truffle orchards in the surrounding county and 530 members in the local truffle association, which has provided a key forum for truffle cultivators to share technical, financial and administrative experiences. Structured interviews were carried out in 2002 with a number of orchard owners, as well as representatives of financial and governmental institutions. Truffles, which are harvested using trained dogs, typically fetch local cultivators average prices of 220-670 EUR/kg, although retail prices of highquality specimens may reach twice this amount. In addition to the direct economic impact, an increase in local land prices was also documented, as well as a tendency for continued expansion of truffle orchards, and thus oak reforestation. In conclusion, the promotion of truffle cultivation through autonomous community and provincial government subsidies, in conjunction with support by local banks, a dedicated local truffle association, and growing interest on behalf of local farmers, seems to have achieved the mutual goals of biodiversity conservation and improving the rural economy in this region of Spain. /// Las plantaciones orientadas hacia la produccin de trufa negra (Tuber melanosporum) se impulsaron en Europa con el objetivo de favorecer las economas rurales, as corno de conservar la biodiversidad a travs de la expansin de los encinares. Dentro de este contexte, se Ilev a cabo un estudio socioeconmico en la zona del municipio de Sarrin y su contorno localizada en el la parte orientai de Espaa, donde existen subvenciones para la reforestacin y el cultivo de la trufa desde el ao 1987. En la zona estudiada, actualmente hay alrededor de 4.500 ha de plantaciones de trufa, adems de una asociacin de cultivadores de trufa con 530 miembros, la cual sirve de plataforma para que sus socios compartan experiencias tenicas, financieras y administrativas. En el ao 2002 se Ilevaron a cabo entrevistas a propietarios de plantaciones, as como a los representantes de instituciones financieras y gubemamentales. Las trufas, que son recolectadas con perros adiestrados, generalmente son vendidas por los propios cultivadores a precios que oscilan entre los 220-670 EUR/kg, aunque en la venta al detalle, el predo de las trufas de alta calidad puede doblar dichas cantidades. Adems del impacto econmico, tambin observamos un incremento en el predo del suelo rstico, as corno la expansin continuada de plantaciones de trufa y de reforestacin. En conclusin, el progreso del cultivo de la trufa a travs de las subvenciones de la Comunidad Autnoma y la Diputacin Provincial, con la colaboracin de los bancos locales, una comprometida asociacin de cultivadores de trufa y un credente inters por parte de los agricultures locales, parece que ha alcanzado los objetivos comunes de biodiversidad y conservacin junto con la mejora de la economia de esta regin de Espaa.
4256604|A field study to survey the custom of tying rags on sacred trees in the northern part of Israel was carried out during 2000-2001. It included 60 interviewees: 24 Druze, 18 Moslem Arabs, 12 Moslem Bedouins and 6 Christian Arab individuals. Tree veneration was found to be quite uncommon among the Bedouins and rare among the Christian Arabs. The results of the present study suggest there are 17 reasons for tying rags on sacred trees. Five reasons, as far as the author is aware, were not previously reported from the literature (i.e., breaking an oath, marking a blessed tree, marking the road to a blessed tree, asking for permission to pick fruit, and setting out rags for needy people). These usages appear to be endemic to Israel and to the Druze. Two customs previously reported from Israel but not corroborated by the present survey are to pacify a tree's spirit and as a charm for new clothes. Three of the 17 known reasons for tying rags on sacred trees are also known from regions beyond the Middle East (i.e., to transfer illness to the tree, to use a rag as a visiting card, and to pacify the tree's spirits). And lastly, several customs never reported before from Israel appear to stem from the belief in ancient pagan polytheistic religions (to ensure a good yield, offerings to a tree's deities/spirits, to pacify the ancestor's spirits, to commemorate a death, and to pacify a tree's spirit while picking fruits). Twelve of the reported 17 reasons for hanging rags on sacred trees are known from Israel. These findings elucidate the widespread and variable tree worship traditions that are prevalent today in the region. In spite of a monotheistic ban against ancient pagan beliefs, trees still remain a subject of worship in Israel today, as manifested by the daily tying of rags upon branches.
41242864|Farmers in the high Andes of central to southern Peru and Bolivia typically freeze-dry potatoes to obtain chuo. Processing of so-called black chuo follows tending, treading, freezing, and drying. The making of white chuo is generally more complex and involves exposure of tubers to water. Regional variants exist for each of these processes, yet their influence on the nutritional composition of native potato cultivars is little known. Tubers belonging to four distinct cultivars and produced in a replicated trial under uniform conditions were processed into four types of chuo following standard traditional procedures (farmer-managed). These regional variants were documented, and the dry matter, iron, zinc, calcium, potassium, phosphorus, magnesium, and sodium content of the four resulting different types of boiled chuo determined at the International Potato Center's Quality and Nutrition Laboratory (Lima, Peru). Content values were compared with those of boiled (unprocessed) tubers from the same experiment. Regional variants of processing are to a large extent determined by tradition, environmental condition, and market demand. The zinc, potassium, phosphorus, and magnesium content of all types of chuo decreases in comparison with unprocessed tubers. Concentrations of these same minerals decrease more drastically for white as compared to black chuo. The effect of the four regional variants of freeze-drying on the dry matter, iron, calcium, and sodium content of chuo differs by process and/or cultivar. Los agricultores de la zona Alto Andina dei centro al sur del Per y Bolivia someten a la papa a un proceso de congelado-secado para obtener chuo. El procesamiento del chuo negro involucra tender, pisar, congelar y secar. Por lo general la elaboracin del chuo blanco es ms compleja y require que los tubrculos se remojen en agua. Existen variantes regionales para cada uno de los procesos. Sin embargo, la influencia de estas sobre la composicin nutricional de cultivares nativos es poco conocida. Tubrculos de cuatro cultivares distintos y producidos en un ensayo replicado bajo condiciones uniformes fueron procesados en cuatro ' tipos' de chuo siguiendo procedimientos tradicionales estndar (manejo de agricultor). Se documentaron las variantes regionales y se determino el contenido de materia seca, hierro, zinc, calcio, potasio, fsforo, magnesio y sodio de los cuatro diferentes ' tipos' de chuo en el Laboratorio de Calidad y Nutricin del Centro Internacional de la Papa (Lima, Per). Se compararon los valores de contenido del chuo con los de tubrculos hervidos (sin procesar) provenientes del mismo experimento. Los variantes regionales de procesamiento se determinan principalmente por tradicin, condicin ambiental y demanda de mercado. El contenido de zinc, potasio, fsforo y magnesio de todos los tipos de chuo disminuy en comparacin contubrculos sin procesar. Las concentraciones de estos minrales disminuy ms drasticamente para chuo blanco comparado con chuo negro. El efecto de los cuatro variantes de congelado-secado sobre el contenido de materia seca, hierro, calcio y sodio del chuo vari dependiendo del proceso y/o cultivar.
4255419| The seeds of cycad plants are a toxic food used by many Aboriginal groups in northern Australia. Acute symptoms produced after consumption of untreated Cycas seeds are due to azoxyglycosides, especially cycasin, although the toxic dose depends on the animal species tested. There are three traditional methods used to treat these seeds: brief leaching in water; prolonged leaching in water; and aging. Aboriginal people living at Donydji outstation in northeast Arnhem Land, most regularly consume aged seeds of Cycas angulata R.Br. Analyses of fresh seeds and seeds prepared at Donydji and in the laboratory indicate that cycasin is effectively removed by all the traditional preparation techniques, although each technique has an end product with different storage and handling properties. The social implications of processing need further elaboration, but these techniques have a long history and archaeological remains of seeds in Australia may date back to the Pleistocene. /// Las semillas de las plantas del genero Cycas, no obstante su toxicidad, se utilizan por los grupos Aboriginales de Australia del norte. El consumo de las semillas sin tratamiento produce sintomas agudos, debido a su contenido de azoxyglycosidas, especialmente cycasin, si bien la dosis toxica depende de la especie animal a la que se administra. Traditionalmente se usa tres mtodos de preparacin de las semillas de las cycadaceaes: colandolas en agua de breve duracin; colandolas en agua de larga duracin; o aejandolas. La gente Aboriginal viviendo en la colonia del campo de Donydji, localizado en la parte noroeste de la Tierra de Arnhem, comen mas regularmente las semillas aejas de Cycas angulata R.Br. Analizando las semillas recien salidos, junto con las preparadas a Donydji y las preparadas en el laboratorio se averigua que los mtodos tradicionales de preparacin quitan el cycasin. Sin embargo los mtodos diferentes de preparacin producen un fruto final con atributos distintos para almacenamiento y manejo. Las implicaciones sociales de la preparacin merecen un estudio mas detallado, mas que estos mtodos se utilizan durante una larga historia, incluso la possibilidad de que se han encontrado los restos de estas semillas datadas al perodo Pleistoceno. 
4255604| Quijos Quichua collaborators identified Osteophloeum platyspermum and Virola duckei (Myristicaceae) as sources of a psychoactive sap. This is the first reported hallucinogenic use of Myristicaceae from Ecuador. Species in Malphighiaceae and Solanaceae are more common sources of hallucinogens, but older Quichua still employ these myristicaceous species. Virola is used widely as a hallucinogen in other parts of Amazonia but there are no previous reports on the psychoactive use of O. platyspermum. Field tests for the presence of alkaloids using Dragendorff's reagent were positive for both species. Like the Bora and Witoto in Peru, the Quijos Quichua consume myristicaceous hallucinogens orally. Most other indigenous peoples prepare psychoactive snuffs from the bark and sap. / Quijos Quichua colaboradores identificaron Osteophloeum platyspermum y Virola duckei (Myristicaceae) como fuentes de una savia psicoctivo. ste es el primer reporte de uso alucingenico de Myristicaceae en Ecuador. Especies de Malpighiaceae y Solanaceae son fuentes ms comnes de alucingenos, pero los viejos Quichua todava emplean especies de Myristicaceae. Virola es usado frecuentemente como un alucingeno en otras partes de Amazona pero no hay ningunos informes anteriores sobre el uso psicoctivo de O. platyspermum. Pruebas de campo para la presencia de alcaloides empleando el reactivo Dragendorff eran positivas para ambos especies. Como el Bora y Witoto en Per, los Quijos Quichua consumen alucingenos de Myristicaceous oralmente. La mayora de otras gentes indgenas preparan raps psicoctivo desde la corteza y savia. 
4254483|The pignolia nut or seed of the Italian stone pine (Pinus pinea) is well-known as a food item, especially in Mediterranean cuisine. By contrast, the seed of Pinus sabiniana, a species of pine found only in California and once much utilized by the aboriginal population, is little-known commercially. When examined in terms of nutritional value, shell-to-kernel ratio, and kernel weight, the seeds of these 2 species appear to be similar. It would seem that the difference between them for commercial purposes is the 2000-yr cultivation of P. pinea in Europe as opposed to the general neglect of the California species, at least since the Euro-american domination of the area.
4252182|Guar, with a 50-year crop history slowly establishes its agronomic and economic merit. Guar is now in USDA's "new crops" program, among crops that are substitutable in land use and income yield for surplus crops. Guar has 4 virtues. It is (1) an annual crop, (2) a leguminous plant, (3) adapted to mechanical planting, cultivation, and harvesting, and (4) the gum made from it goes to an industrial market. Only a part of this market is supplied now, and the potential usage could be upped several-fold.
4251871|This bulb of the lily family is extremely poisonous to mice and rats but relatively non-toxic to domestic animals and humans.
41001176|The process of domestication is understudied and poorly known for many tropical fruit tree crops. The star apple or caimito tree (Chrysophyllum cainito L., Sapotaceae) is cultivated throughout the New World tropics for its edible fruits. We studied this species in central Panama, where it grows wild in tropical moist forests and is also commonly cultivated in backyard gardens. Using fruits collected over two harvest seasons, we tested the hypothesis that cultivated individuals of C. cainito show distinctive fruit and seed characteristics associated with domestication relative to wild types. We found that cultivated fruits were significantly and substantially larger and allocated more to pulp and less to exocarp than wild fruits. The pulp of cultivated fruits was less acidic; also, the pulp had lower concentrations of phenolics and higher concentrations of sugar. The seeds were larger and more numerous and were less defended with phenolics in cultivated than in wild fruits. Discriminant Analysis showed that, among the many significant differences, fruit size and sugar concentration drove the great majority of the variance distinguishing wild from cultivated classes. Variance of pulp phenolics among individuals was significantly higher among wild trees than among cultivated trees, while variance of fruit mass and seed number was significantly higher among cultivated trees. Most traits showed strong correlations between years. Overall, we found a clear signature of a domestication syndrome in the fruits of cultivated caimito in Panama. El proceso de domesticacin de muchos rboles frutales tropicales es poco estudiado y entendido. El caimito (Chrysophyllum cainito L., Sapotaceae) es cultivado, por su fruto comestible, en todas las regiones tropicales de Amrica. Hemos estudiado esta especie en Panam central, donde crece en huertos caseros y en poblaciones silvestres del bosque hmedo tropical. Usando frutos colectados en dos aos de cosecha, probamos la hiptesis de que las semillas y los frutos de individuos cultivados e individuos silvestres de C. cainito tienen caractersticas distintas debido a la domesticacin. Encontramos que los frutos de los individuos cultivados fueron significativa y sustancialmente ms grandes, con mayor cantidad de pulpa y menos exocarpo que los frutos de individuos silvestres. La pulpa de la fruta de los individuos cultivados fue menos cida, con menor concentracin de compuestos fenlicos y alta concentracin de azcares. Las semillas fueron ms grandes, numerosas y con menor autodefensas (compuestos fenlicos) en los individuos cultivados que en los silvestres. El anlisis discriminante mostr, entre muchas diferencias significativas, que el tamao de la fruta y la concentracin de azucares fueron los factores ms importantes para discriminir entre individuos cultivados y silvestres. La varianza entre individuos fue significativamente mayor dentro de los rboles silvestres que dentro de los rboles cultivados, para los compuestos fenlicos de la pulpa. En contraste, la varianza fue significativamente mayor entre rboles cultivados para el peso de la fruta y nmero de semillas. La mayora de las caractersticas demostraron una fuerte correlacin entre aos. En general, encontramos un patrn claro para el sndrome de la domesticacin en la fruta de caimito en Panam.
