42594428|Attention has recently been drawn in this Journal to the lack of achievement in Colonial Forest Botany. The criticisms apply equally to all other forest sciences. Scientific forestry stands in urgent need of planning, co-ordination and, above all, of reorganization. The internal organization of most forest departments requires the A.C.F. to be a jack-of-all-trades and loads him with administrative routine, so that he has no opportunity for scientific work. It is suggested that better use would be made of the training and capabilities of senior officers by a functional organization whereunder every man ol them becomes a specialist and administrative routine is turned over to intermediate grades. Regional teams of super-specialists are advocated to take care of planning and co-ordination and dissemination of knowledge.
42594017|The regional control of bush burning in British Tropical Africa is deemed to be ineffective, except in Nyasaland, because it is based on preventive legislation, and there has been no staff to enforce it. It is considered that control should be placed in the hands of Forest Departments, who alone have the experience and the staff, and that, except in the Glossina morsitans belt of East Africa, it should take the form of organized early burning sanctioned by positive legislation.
42593759|In considering the future of the E.F.A., the writer thinks it vitally important that the aims of the Association in the field of publicity should be more clearly defined. For example, he asks whether the Journal is to be regarded primarily as a periodical intended for professional reading or as an organ of forestry propaganda. He outlines his personal experiences of forestry publicity and propaganda and draws certain conclusions therefrom, particularly with regard to the ineffectiveness of public propaganda attempted without a suitable vehicle, and the comparative value of centralized and local propaganda. He thinks that the Association would be well advised to cut out propaganda and seek reconstitution as a professional society of foresters.
42593569|As part of an investigation into the relation between anatomical structure and the maximum crushing strength of home-grown Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis), the influence of the degree of inclination of the spirally arranged fibrils of the middle layer in the secondary tracheid wall was examined. A satisfactory method of determining the fibril angle from the slope of the ray pit apertures is described. The normal variation in fibril angle within the tree was determined and the causes of this are discussed. It is important to note that the major variation is associated also with variation in size and structure of the elements, and this should be borne in mind when correlating fibril angle with properties of the wood ; furthermore, in adult wood the angular variation is limited. No relation between fibril angle and crushing strength was found, and it is suggested that the positive relation found by other workers may have been due to the inclusion of wood near the pith or compression wood, both of which are characterized by a much higher fibril angle than normal adult wood, but differ also in other respects.
42594858|The position of the practice of forestry in both private and commercial forestry in Canada is described as in a very backward state. There does not seem to have been sufficient incentive to private owners to practice silviculture. Some details are given of cases where the successful practice of silviculture has been carried out. The outlook for better forestry management is given, but it will be a long time before it is widely enough practised.
42595102|The sequence of fellings, girdlings and cleanings used in the regeneration of Malayan evergreen forest is discussed. The influence of the increasing use of sawmills on this sequence, and the use of frill girdles poisoned with sodium arsenite for disposing of unwanted trees, are also described.
42593059|A general account is given of Forestry in Finland compiled from notes made during a tour of the country in the summer of 1937.
42595026|The suitability of the perforated index-card system for botanical identification is discussed, and a key of this type, for the trees and shrubs of Uganda, is described. Primarily, the key is intended for the field worker in the tropics, who is unlikely to have facilities for detailed dissection. Owing to its elasticity, and to the inter-changeability of character sequence, the method has many advantages as an alternative to the ordinary dichotomous key.
42594379|The age at which tropical trees attain various girths and their rate of growth in girth is essential for management. Owing to the fact that they show no annual rings or very indistinct rings of unknown relation to the chronological year, this constitutes a very considerable problem. Little work has been published so far dealing directly with this question. The results of a study on rate of growth in English woods with a view to developing a technique for tropical conditions is given. A possible method is suggested of forming a continuous growth curve from the individual curves of various size classes derived from measurements over a period of years, but this can only be done if the category dominance of the individual tree is taken into consideration. The average rate of growth required for forest management is discussed, and the argument advanced that it is the average rate of growth of the dominant trees within each size class in irregular forests. A technique for collecting the necessary data under tropical conditions is suggested.
42593559|An account of how the Indian Forest Department is attempting to introduce forest conservancy in tribal territory on the North-West Frontier.
42595107|The personal traits which seem to be most necessary for administrative work in forests are considered, with particular reference to the Indian Forest Department during its middle period. The words "administration" and "forester" are used in their widest sense.
42591859|In this paper is explained how the Union has to rely on the cultivation of exotics and especially of the cultivation of exotic conifers in order to cope with its present dependence on importations to supply its timber requirements. The history of the introduction of conifers into the country from van Riebeek's day down to the present time is sketched and information is given of various genera such as Abies, Picea, Pseudotsuga and Larix that have so far been tried with negative results. The silviculture of half-a-dozen of the conifers now being most widely used for afforestation is discussed in some detail and particulars are afforded of many others which are being grown on a smaller scale. Finally in connection with the whole subject the need and importance of research work is stressed.
42593058|Prior to the initiation of forestry in 1920, the interior of British Honduras was virtually unknown except to a small section of the inhabitants engaged in the collection of forest produce. Throughout the colony's history economic circumstances had favoured forest exploitation to the neglect of agricultural development and, as such exploitation had been selective and exhaustive in character, the need for a broader productive economy was beginning to make itself felt. The article traces the progress made since that time in accumulating data on vegetation, soil, topography and latterly climate, and describes the evolution in survey methods from the first rapid reconnaissances to the more elaborate ecological surveys now carried out with topo Abney and trailer tape. The mestizos of the North, who are "natural ecologists" with a vegetation-type terminology of their own, have become highly proficient in such work. The objective at the outset was the investigation of forestry possibilities, but the knowledge accumulated has proved of much wider usefulness in relation to the general problems of rural development, and the value of vegetation types as indicators of soil quality has grown steadily more apparent. Vegetation survey has enabled better control of shifting cultivation, so that valuable forest is sacrificed to a less extent to this activity, and has shown where and how permanent agriculture can best be established. Communications can be planned to open up the more fertile lands, the location of which was previously unknown, and causes of erosion can be traced. Close co-operation has been maintained throughout with the agricultural and other departments concerned, and the forest staff have come to regard themselves as members of an organization engaged on the general problem of rural development, forestry being only one facet of its activities.
42595344|The renewal of the oak-woods in the New Forest is of importance, both from the point of view of the amenities and as a future source of oak timber. The available evidence shows that merchantable oak timber has been produced in the New Forest in the past, but more definite information is required as to the quality of that timber and the particular areas from which it was obtained. It seems not unlikely that in the remote past the best timber may have been cut on what are now private agricultural and pastoral lands of the lowlands within the Forest boundaries. Some of the best grown oak now standing, planted a little over 200 years ago, is to be found on the edge of the Plateau Gravel cap, where this thins off into the clays below ; but this, it is said, is likely to be "shaky". Plantations on certain soils often show poor growth, die-back of crown, andnot infrequentlydeath of the whole tree. The reasons for this state of affairs, and suitable remedies, require investigation. The problem resolves itself into one of ascertaining what factors are causing unsatisfactory growth, and what are the actual conditions requisite for the production of first-class oak timber within the New Forest area. The problem may be summarized briefly in the form of the following questions : A. The kinds of oak (species, varieties and races) : a. Which of these are growing in the forest ? b. Which of these are doing well, and which badly ? c. Does one sort do better on one soil than on another ? B. The kinds of soil : d. On what types of soil are the oaks growing ? e. Which type is producing good, and which producing poor oak ? f. Are any of the soils on which oak is now growing unsuited to oak production? g. If so, can these soils be improved economically or "reconditioned" by the use of other kinds of tree ? C. Soil indicators : h. What correlation, if any, exists between the kind of oak and the kind of soil ? i. What vegetation communities can be used as indicators of those types of soil which will produce good or poor oak? It will be recognized that full and reliable answers to these questions, and others which are certain to arise in the course of such an inquiry, can only be obtained by careful investigation in which the systematist, the ecologist, and the soil scientist would collaborate fully.
42595542|The importance of the equatorial forests, potentially as a source of raw material and actually for the protection that they afford against adverse climatic influences, is undoubted, but in populous regions their existence is threatened by pressure on the land and particularly by shifting cultivation. The inhabitants of these regions are slow to appreciate the indirect influences of forest growth, but would be more disposed to protect their forests if they were taught how to use them more fully. Native use is backward, but with the general rise in standards of living and purchasing power the availability of cheaply produced mill-sawn timber would rapidly stimulate demand. There is no hope of such low-cost production by outside capital, which is interested chiefly in the relatively high profits to be made in oversea markets ; but, with the right sort of technical instruction in the use of sawmill and woodworking machinery of a simple type, and other Government aid of an inexpensive kind, it could be developed by indigenous agency, as has been done with signal success in Malaya. A native sawmill industry can cater for all markets, and secures relatively intensive utilization of forest resources, including large quantities of low-grade material which selective exploitation leaves untouched ; and the logging technique employed can be adapted to silvicultural requirements. Development on such lines expedites the process of converting primeval forest, which as a rule contains only limited quantities of material suitable for export, into valuable timber crops under regular management which should be able to contribute largely to oversea trade. An analysis is attempted of the economic motives for selective exploitation, and the wastefulness and impermanence of this practice, and its undesirability from the standpoint of the forest owner, are discussed.
42595197|1. Agricultural crops of economic importance in the Gold Coast are dependent on forest protection for their growth. Their successful cultivation is threatened by extensive deforestation, principally as the result of shifting cultivation. 2. The danger is realized and the observable effects of extensive deforestation discussed. 3. The more important factors involved are enumerated and it is suggested that the controlling factors are climatic ones. 4. In order to arrive at a correlation between vegetation and climatic factors expressed in terms of rainfall the floristic values of six stations are classified and corresponding rainfall figures analysed. 5. A correlation is shown between floristic values and dry season moisture conditions, expressed in degrees of wetness. 6. It is concluded that the limiting factor in vegetational distribution is the length and intensity of the dry season. 7. The possibility of interaction between vegetation and climatic factors is suggested and the presumed process bringing about a transition from closed forest to savannah outlined. 8. An example is given in which a reverse process of "re-vegetation" has occurred and unfavourable climatic conditions have been ameliorated. 9. It is claimed that, in certain circumstances, vegetation and limiting climatic factors are interdependent. 10. Forests, therefore, take on an added value where agricultural crops of economic importance are subject to delicately balanced climatic conditions.
42593062|Attention is drawn to the lack of uniformity amongst annual reports on forest administration and to the difficulty experienced by members of the Colonial Forest Service in supplying information required on the occasion of Empire Forestry Conferences. The suggestion is put forward that the 1936 annual report on forest administration in Malaya might serve as a basis for a standard form of report that would serve both purposes.
42591997|Studies in variation in the black wattle are reported. This tree lends itself well to treatment according to modern concepts of plant breeding. Preliminary results are given, and these show definite possibilities for improvement within the variety. In view of the importance of the wattle industry to the world's supplies of vegetable tanning materials, results achieved should be of economic value. Evidence has been presented to show that the plant-to-row method of breeding, when applied to the wattle tree, gives results similar to those which would be expected of an agricultural crop. In progeny tests differences have already been established in form, foliage, vigour and disease resistance. Recessive characters also occur, and these should be of value in further studies on inheritance.
42595112|(1) A description is given of a laboratory method of testing the resistance to decay of timberssmall selected samples are exposed to fungal attack under controlled conditions for four or eight months, and the amount of attack estimated from the percentage loss in dry weight caused by the test fungi. (2) The results obtained with a number of species of Empire and home-grown timbers are tabulated and the timbers are classified on a basis of their resistance to decay. (3) The nature of decay resistance and the importance of the soluble extractives in increasing the resistance of a timber to fungal decay are discussed.
42594391|1. Nine years' observations of field experiments at Wareham Forest have shown that application of compost in the presence of adequate phosphate at sowing almost entirely prevents the development of fused needle in Pinus contorta, a species specially prone to this disorder on the area. 2. Similar applications to a nine-year-old stand of P. contorta already showing 6o per cent of the trees affected has reduced the incidence of fused needle 50 per cent in the course of five years. 3. Basic slag alone produces definite amelioration, but the effect appears not to be lasting.
42594950|1. A series of mechanical tests were carried out on small selected samples of Obeche cut from a freshly imported log. One set of tests was made on samples which were exposed under controlled conditions to infection with Botryodiplodia theobromae, a fungus which frequently causes staining of this timber in the log, and the other set of tests was carried out on carefully matched control samples. In each case one-half of the samples were sterilized by intermittent steaming. 2. Infection with the fungus brings about (a) a marked reduction in toughness amounting in one group of heavily stained specimens to 43 per cent, (b) a definite reduction in bending strength which in one group amounted to 19.7 per cent, (c) a reduction of about 7 per cent in stiffness in the unsterilized timber, and a negligible change in the sterilized timber, (d) a reduction in specific gravitythe maximum loss found amounting to 12.5 per cent. 3. Chemical analysis of the heavily stained samples shows that the fungus causes a marked depletion in the content of water soluble materials, and that it also attacks the cellulose, pentosans and lignin, behaving like a typical white rot fungus.
42595545|The relation between growth features of the trunk and the occurrence of compression wood was examined with the object of facilitating rejection of timber containing this tissue, which is difficult to detect and is responsible for severe warping. Compression wood was found near the centre of each log, but its presence here or elsewhere showed no definite relation to stem eccentricity, flutings, branching, growth rate, or colour of the wood.
42593625|1. The occurrence at Wareham Forest, Dorset, of fused needle in plantations of Corsican pine, Mountain pine and Scots pine, species not hitherto recorded, as susceptible, is described. Included are records of fused needle affecting P. contorta in Wales, Mountain pine in Yorkshire, and P. halepensis in Arizona. The incidence of this disorder is believed to be more widespread than is generally recognized. 2. Observations and experiments by the writer have shown : (a) That recovery from fused needle occurs immediately by providing conditions that favour short root production and the establishment of a normal mycorrhizal system ; also that the incidence of fused needle is associated with the arrest of short root development and mycorrhiza-formation rather than with consistent poverty of mycorrhizas. (b) That fused needle is not transmitted by grafting. (c) That it is not due to a deficiency of zinc or boron. (d) That the degree of incidence is reduced by phosphatic dressings, probably as a result of direct stimulation of fungal activity. 3. Some aspects of Young's important monograph on fused needle in Australia are considered critically. The present writer shares most of the views put forward, and experiments at Wareham provide confirmation for some of them. Exception is taken, however, to the "carbohydrate hypothesis" as a basis on which to account for the development of symptoms of fused needle. 4. A new hypothesis is presented in which the appearance of fused needle is ascribed to a sudden shortage of water in the plant at the time the leaves are beginning to expand, the deficiency arising from greatly reduced root absorption owing to failure of the root system to provide functional short roots and mycorrhizas at this critical period in the life cycle. 5. Careful study of the distinct phases of growth associated with root and shoot activity respectively in different species of Pine, and the effect of disturbance of normal correlations in this respect, is called for in order to determine how far the arrest of short root development and mycorrhiza-formation observable in all Pine plants showing symptoms of fused needle is responsible for the development of such symptoms.
42595019|1. A general description and brief historical outline of the island of Jamaica is given. 2. The country can be divided into four major regions, which have distinctive geology, climate, vegetation and land use : (a) The interior mountains. (b) The white limestone plateau. (c) The coastal hills. (d) The alluvial plains. Typical tree species in each region are mentioned. 3. The policy of the Forest Branch emphasizes the protective value of forests in the fight against erosion, and secondarily the development of better local timber utilization. 4. A Ten-point programme to implement the above policy is outlined.
42595105|The article is in itself a summary of a detailed report on a tour made in West and North Africa, the U.S.A. and the Far East to study anti-erosion work, desiccation problems and forest influences. The material is arranged under four headings : Erosion Control, Shelter Belts, Sand Dune Fixation and Experimental Stations. The principal conclusion drawn is that the most important factor in the control of erosion on non-arable land is vegetation cover, and that the more elaborate engineering measures are economic only for the protection of land of high productivity or site value.
42593560|The dry forests situated in the goldfields region of Western Australia are described. There are two zones, the Eucalypt and the Mulga (Acacia). Notes are given on the quality and supply of mining timber and firewood from the forests and the silvicultural characteristics of the types are discussed.
42593567|(1) The strength properties of samples of Canadian Western red cedar heartwood possessing a dark brown colour have been compared with those having the normal light colour. It was found that the dark-coloured heartwood was less tough, softer and weaker in compression than the normal light-coloured heartwood, the reduction in each of these strength properties being about 20 per cent. The dark material had also lower specific gravity than the light, this difference in specific gravity being closely correlated with the difference in strength. (2) Fungus mycelium was almost invariably present in the darker wood and absent in the light-coloured wood. (3) It is concluded that the dark coloration, lower specific gravity and reduced strength properties are brought about by fungal attack. (4) The fungal hyphae were observed to have penetrated the cell walls in the manner described as typical of Poria weirii, but definite identification of the fungus present was not possible, and the alterations observed may be brought about by a fungus of the staining type.
42594330|This paper states what has been learnt from twelve years' detailed observation and from records made over a much longer period on the African Alpine Bamboo (Arundinaria alpina K. Schum) in Kenya, where it grows gregariously over 700 square miles of montane forest between 8,000 and 10,000 feet above sea level. A single acre holds 4,000 to 7,000 culms, of average size 45-50 feet high and 2 inches diameter. The factors influencing production of new culms are discussed, and actual production figures are given for the years 1932-1943. The life of a single culm is believed to be about twelve to fourteen years. Present evidence points to a life-cycle of over forty years in the locality under observation. At the end of the life cycle the bamboo flowers, seeds, and dies. The flowering is gregarious, but not so far recorded as affecting more than a few hundred acres at a time. The recovery period (for normal full-sized culms again to be produced) is found to be eight or nine years after clear-cutting, or seven to eight years if 10 per cent of the old culms are left standing at the time of cutting. The cutting cycle (period required to produce a full normal stand after clear cutting) is found to be fourteen to twenty-one years, depending upon site. The yield from clear-cutting bamboos is on the average forty tons air-dry bamboo per acre. Immunity to bamboo-borers (Dinoderus minutus and others) is given by standing freshly-cut bamboos with all their leaves on, for twenty-four hours in a 2 per cent solution of Wolman Salts or a 4 per cent solution of borax.
42595540|Notwithstanding its great density of population Japan has already 55 per cent of its area under permanent forest ; scrub lands forming 11.5 per cent of the country are reserved for afforestation. Copious well-distributed rainfall is the main factor favouring forests in Japan. Much forest has been reserved mainly for its protection value. Omitting Chosen, Karafuto and Jaiwan, the area in hectares under conifers is 5,465,530, under broad-leaved trees 9,162,379, and under mixed forest 5,969,880. There are about 600 species of trees, of which 103 are conifers. Forest policy is on a par with that of the most advanced European States, but the administration is divided amongst several authorities. In Japan Proper the staffs of the various authorities aggregate between 9000 and 10,000 officers. Education in forestry is amply provided for by 53 schools, four of which are of the University grade. Research is carried out at two well-equipped stations. The area of forest planted in Old Japan in the last forty-five years is about eight million acres. The chief trees planted are crytomeria, Hinoki cypress, larch and red pine, all indigenous. In Crown and State forests the rotation is from seventy to 100 years ; in private forests from thirty to fifty years. The fundamental principle of management is sustained yield. The amount of timber produced is 525,599,519 cub. ft., and the consumption 648,670,935 cub. ft. The amount imported is 94,308,420 cub. ft. Though Japan does not produce enough timber for her own requirements, nevertheless a considerable amount is exported, mainly to China. It is considered that with the further afforestation of scrub lands Japan will be selfsupporting in fifty years' time, even with a great increase of population.
42594799|A general account is given of the Bermuda Islands, their climate, topography, soil and other environmental factors. A short outline is given of the tree flora and plant communities, followed by some notes on the character and utilization of Juniperus bermudiana timber.
42594859|In Nigeria for the past fifty years selective felling of the few merchantable species has gone on and the resources of large-sized Mahogany and Obeche are diminishing. Intensive exploitation by a forest sawmill industry is envisaged and research is being carried out to determine the value of the many timbers which occur, what treatment is required in their logging, seasoning and preservation, and for what uses they can be employed. The range of investigations is described with some details of the methods employed and of the simple machines which have been devised to carry out a preliminary survey of the strength properties of Nigerian timbers. Investigations of minor Forest Produce are also briefly reviewed.
42595543|The origin of Bush Fire Brigades in Victoria, their present status and equipment, are described. Particulars are given of how they are financed, controlled and their work co-ordinated with that of appropriate Government Departments and other agencies. The system of administration adopted, and the legislation under which they work, is discussed. An estimate of the value and possibilities of the Bush Fire Brigade movement is submitted.
42595874|1. The appearance of "stone "is described and three types are distinguished. 2. Observation of natural wounds. Field observations showed that "stone" is to be looked for in the wounds and scars of standing trees, and its association with abnormal tissues is seen during the conversion of lumber. The depositions of concretions on the stem surface was seen to occur on the stalactite principle from a sap exudation stream. 3. Artificial wounding did not lead directly to sap exudation or stone formation, but exudation comparable to that seen in active natural wounds following insect attack in the cambial region of the artificially exposed surfaces. 4. Sources of "natural "wounds are discussed, and fire and wind are considered the most important. 5. Analyses of stone samples and of sap samples by Drs. Martin and Griffiths are tabulated. 6. The suggestion is made that the concretions have their source in sap exudation streams which are maintained over a long period by insect activity.
42595541|The results of this preliminary experiment indicate the possibility of rendering timber immune from Powder-post beetle infestation by immersion of the newly-felled logs in water for a few months. The method should be especially applicable in tropical and sub-tropical countries where the water temperature is relatively high.
42595195|Alarm expressed with regard to threatened desiccation and desert encroachment in the region described is considered to be doubtfully justified. The region forms the borderland of a great and ancient natural desert which has fluctuated in extent with changes in world climate, such changes being so slow as to have a negligible effect on any one civilization. The present climate is more humid than that of the immediate geological past, and tree growth now covers areas which were formerly desert dune systems. There is no evidence of a lowering of the water-table or of any advance of sand. Sand and dunes have been exposed to the elements by recent deforestation, but not imported nor created by it. Even if there were sand encroachment there would be no need to create any barrier against it, for a natural barrier exists in the shape of a belt 100 miles wide of Acacia tortilis and Commiphora "01chard bush" between the farmlands and the desert. This belt is naturally protected because its rainfall is insufficient to permit of agriculture. The Sahara has become derelict from economic, not climatic causes, in consequence of a complete reversal of the trade flow of the western Sudan from a northward to a southward direction. Southward movement of population has been due to economic and trade factors, including the extension of the Nigerian Railway, and not to increasing aridity in the northern lands. The tendency of the vegetation to become more xeromorphic with progress northward is normal in a region in which the character of the vegetation is determined by tropical rains brought by a south-west wind. The desert edge is far north of Nigeria, and savannah forest reaches practically to the 16th parallel of latitude : the deforested farmlands along the International Boundary and the treeless but grassy dune country of the Manga, north of Bornu, are merely interruptions of that forest. Degradation of vegetation-type in the region, extensive as it may be, is entirely due to cultivation and confined to farmlands. The real danger in Northern Nigeria is not desert encroachment but the development of intensive agriculture, in a region of light sandy soil and short, precarious rainfall, at a rate which is outpacing the development of sound farming methods and particularly of the use of manure, which must, if cultivation is to be permanent, replace the "bush fallow" of shifting cultivation. The remedies lie in a proper planning of the use of land and its conservative management for different purposesagriculture, pasturage, the supply of forest produce, the control of run-off in catchment areas and so on ; and in closer co-operation than has hitherto existed between the various agencies concerned, in particular the Forestry, Agricultural, Veterinary and Geological departments of Government.
42595194|Satisfactory progress in silvicultural research and other branches of scientific forestry is, to a greater or less extent, dependent upon an adequate, accurate knowledge of trees. In territories where forests are of the rain forest type, in which species are very numerous and their vernacular names varied and uncertain in application, the acquisition of such knowledge calls for special action. The method of tackling the problem in Malaya, by means of scheme of standardization of vernacular names, is described. Three stages in the operation of the scheme are recognized : 1. Collection in the field of adequate botanical material and information concerning vernacular names. 2. Botanical research to define and name the species, and selection of a "preferred" name for each species or closely related group of species. 3. Promotion of the use of the selected name in preference to all others, by means of a published List of Botanical and Vernacular Equivalents", subject to periodic revision, through the medium of the vernacular forest school, etc. It is claimed that the scheme will make forest officers comparatively independent of changes in botanical names. A reference is made to the confusion resulting from failure to distinguish between the names and definitions of trees and timbers.
42594793|This article contains technical forestry notes made during a visit to South Africa in 1939. Not having been privileged to attend the Empire Forestry Conference held in South Africa in 1935, I decided during furlough in 1939 to follow in the footsteps of the great and to see for myself something of forestry methods in the Union. Through the courtesy of Mr. J. D. M. Keet, Director of Forestry, and Dr. I. J. Craib, Chief Research Officer, who kindly arranged my tour programme, I was able to visit the Eastern Transvaal, Natal and parts of the Cape Province. No mention has been made in these notes of the management of Wattles in Natal, as this has been written up in a separate article for the East African Agricultural Journal.
42595544|The natural succession to the climax type of evergreen high forest of broadleaved trees in the highlands of Kenya has in some places been diverted in past time by fire to a sub-climax of pure African pencil cedar (Juniperus procera) or a mixture of cedar with broadleaved trees. The vegetational succession from a burnt forest area to this sub-climax, and thence to the true climax type, can be studied in the Kinangop Forest on the western slopes of the Aberdare Range. Here protection of the forest from fire in the past twenty years has prevented further regeneration of cedar in forest, but has encouraged its colonization of grassland round the forest edge. This process is extremely slow and continuity in the restocking of the forest with cedar is being ensured by planting.
42594863|A plea is made that forest officers in the colonies should devote more attention to the planning of land utilization, based on soil and ecological surveys. It is endeavoured to show, by reference to Trinidad, how many mistakes in land use occurred in the past, leading to wastage of forest capital and soil fertility, and how the planning of land is now being carried on under a Lands Advisory Committee ; how ecological and soil surveys have been carried out, and how pure forestry itself benefits from these.
42594792|The Budongo forest in Uganda is described. In the introductory section information is given regarding situation, area, topography, climate, demarcation and survey, rights and privileges, working plan, permissible yields and actual fellings, history of exploitation, methods of extraction, markets and marketable timbers, forest fees and labour costs. A second section describes succession, structure and composition, and gives figures of stem-counts in different types of forest. In the final section the regeneration of Mahogany, Chlorophora and Maesopsis is discussed. In the case of Mahogany, most success has been achieved by the line-group planting of large stripped plants.
42594947|The term "deciduous" conveys an impression of xerophilous conditions caused either by drought or frost. Leaf-shedding of certain species in Tropical Rain-Forest appears to be a sexual character rather than connected with a resting period, during xerophilous conditions. If this is borne out by further observations, a clear distinction must be made between truly deciduous and sexually deciduous formations in descriptions of tropical forests, and a new terminology adopted.
42594803|The examination was carried out on disks at different heights from four trees of Juniperus procera Hochst, two grown in exposed conditions in natural forest and two grown in a sheltered plantation. Compression wood was found to be much more prevalent in trees grown in exposed natural forest than in material from a sheltered plantation. Also its distribution was more definitely related to the direction of the prevailing wind in the former. The plantation-grown timber was generally less hard and dense and paler in heartwood colour, but contained a larger proportion of sapwood. Observations are included on the structure and formation of the growth rings in this tropical species of Juniperus.
42595345|Natural compression-failures are found near the centre of logs, in the form of irregular zig-zag fractures across the grain. Various suggestions which have been made to account for their occurrence are discussed in the light of observations on affected specimens. The problem of natural compression-failures is considered in relation to the phenomenon of "brittle-heart" in certain timbers. From the available evidence it is concluded that natural compression-failures are probably due to wind action or other external force bending the trunk of the tree during the comparatively early years of its life.
42594335|This paper deals chiefly with two groups of new wood products(1) those in which the wood has been modified by mechanical or physical means, and (2) those in which the wood has been converted by chemicals or heat into some entirely different form. The author believes that these new products will supplement rather than replace such standard products as lumber, veneer, and pulp, and stresses the dependence of all of the wood-using industries upon continuous, balanced production of the wood crop from managed forests
42594860|The Kyetpyugan Teak Plantations were started in 1865 with a view to producing concentrated stocks of teak timber in readily accessible localities for export. Unfortunately the site was ill-chosen and capable only of producing inferior quality of teak suitable only for local supply. Past treatment of the plantations is described and the results to date of felling and replanting with a view to the supply of local requirements of Teak and Pyinkado are given.
42594022|A small termite resistance test among the deciduous woodlands of Northern Rhodesia, started in 1933, has shown that seven local species are very resistant indeed : that the common Brachystegia and Isoberlinia timbers of that region last hardly two years in the ground : that impregnation at a wide range of absorptions with Sodium Arsenite cr Arsenious Oxide preserves these woods against termites for six years : and that impregnation with Zinc Chloride (4.75 per cent) is effective only for two.
42593822|There are indications that the importance of Colonial Forest Botany lacks appreciation in some circles, due, in the writer's opinion, mainly to the facts that its precise function has for so long been undefined, and that Botanists and Foresters have failed to collaborate adequately in the solution of a problem demanding mutual understanding and joint action. A statement is made of the basic botanical requirements of foresters which, it is shown, neither the efforts of the foresters themselves, the Imperial Forestry Institute, nor the botanists, have adequately satisfied. Causes of these failures are sought with a view to tackling the problem more adequately in the future, and it is shown that the crux of the matter is collaboration between botanists and field biologists in the solution of a colonial problem. It is stated that unilateral attempts at solution would be fatal, but a constructive plan is outlined to provide the basis for discussion and to stimulate interest. The plan involves admission of the necessity for the production of "Field Floras" in situ and not in European herbaria, and provision of the necessary Field Botanists by recruiting them into the Colonial Forest Service. This plan is drawn up in the interests of field biologists as a whole, but it has certain obvious advantages to colonial foresters, and these are detailed. The opinion is expressed that the time was never more opportune for rationalization of Colonial Forest Botany. But agreement among Foresters is only the first step; it must be followed by understanding with the Botanists, and, finally, a joint approach must be made to those who are in a position to grant a charter which will make it possible to put into operation a rational long-term policy.
42594435|Research on wood-uses has hitherto been focused on comparison of the properties of hitherto unutilized woods with woods already established in specific industries. Establishment, in many cases, it is contended, is purely traditional, and it is suggested that a consideration of first principles replace search for mere substitutes. A method of procedure to this end is described, and its extension to embrace materials other than wood, considered.
42594862|1. The Imperial Forestry Bureau is part of the Imperial Agricultural Bureaux organization and is an entirely separate institution from the Imperial Forestry Institute ; it is separately financed and disposes of its publications independently of the Institute. The Bureau has full access to the Institute's library and co-operation between the two institutions is secured by the appointment of the Professor of Forestry at the Institute as ex officio Director of the Bureau ; the full-time Bureau officer in charge is styled the Deputy Director. 2. The types of service, particularly publications, offered by the Bureau are discussed in relation to the objects of the Imperial Agricultural Bureau organization as a whole, and the special facilities open to contributing governments are described. 3. A list is given of the liaison officers of the Imperial Agricultural Bureaux and of the official correspondents of the Imperial Forestry Bureau and their functions are briefly explained.
42595024|In 1929 the Government of Ceylon introduced important changes in the system of Land Administration embodying the principle of planning in advance the uses to which Crown land should be put. This new system, known locally as "Mapping-out", has passed the experimental stage. It involves various steps such as survey, settlement and planning. The Forest Department is intimately concerned in the procedure employed, and Forest Reservation plays an important part in the general scheme. The general principles involved in the system are applicable to other countries. The recently introduced procedure with regard to land planning is a great improvement upon the previous more or less haphazard methods followed. The present methods are described and its results examined.
42594861|The above notes by Mr. Willan deal with the remote north-west portion of Nyasaland, about which we have very little information. It is a region of particular botanical interest on account of its geographical position and topographical features ; its careful exploration is likely to throw useful light on the connexion between the floras of East and West Tropical Africa. I had planned to visit this area in 1929, but circumstances over which I had no control intervened to prevent it. Mr. Willan's notes add to our knowledge of the region. The following are among the more important points he has dealt with : 1. It is interesting to find evidences of a more extensive occurrence of Juniperus procera in former times ; that large trees of this species still remain, "relics of a much larger area"; and that there are evidences of regeneration where protection is afforded. 2. The occurrence of coppice of Albizzia maranguensis in Mountain Grassland on the Nchisi-Chintembwe uplands is important, suggesting as it does that considerable areas of this type of grassland were once occupied by Upper Montane Evergreen Rain-forest, connecting the now isolated patches into what was once, no doubt, a continuous belt of this forest type. It would be instructive to have an area of this montane grassland, of sufficient size, fire-protected over a period of years with annual records of the vegetational succession. 3. The cultivation and use of a native bamboo by the Sukwa tribe in the Misuku Hills is interesting and suggestive. If the cultivation of this bamboo could be extended among the native tribes of Central Africa it might help to reduce the destruction of sapling trees for hut construction. 4. The native use of species of Acacia as soil indicators is an interesting and important point. Three species (A. campylacantha, A. woodii and A. albida) are characteristic of soils of considerable fertility. 5. Among other interesting facts recorded are the occurrence of the Oil-palm (Elaeis guineensis) at Chinteche, and of large trees of Mvule, Chlorophora excelsa, in localities where its occurrence was previously unknown ; the apparent absence of the Psyllid gall fly may make possible the successful cultivation of this important timber tree. 6. The author concludes thatin that part of Africa, at leastBrachystegia woodland is a secondary type of vegetation which has successfully asserted itself and assumed a degree of stability under conditions favourable to it.
42594870|A key of the multiple-entry is described for use in field identification of hardwood timbers with the aid of a card.
42595202|The forest types in Nigeria range from Mangrove in the south to Desert Scrub in the north, and between these extremes lies the broad equatorial forest belt formerly comprising climax Rain and climax Mixed Deciduous forest. Cultivation and bush fires have replaced extensive areas of these climax types with open grass woodlands, popularly known as Savannah forests. These Savannah forests are, in the moist zone, temporary : protection from cultivation and fire leads to the succession of the climax forests which are closed canopy formations. Fire control experiments have shown that under certain conditions this succession is rapid ; on a large scale it would have far-reaching effects on the rural economy of the country. Erosion would be checked, bush fires prevented* and soil fertility recovered. The interspersal of shelter belts of closed forest would maintain the optimum climatic conditions for the cultivation of certain crops, e. g. cocoa. Important timber trees would reappear naturally, and gradually local timber supplies would be built up for the future. The density and the canopy of the forest are important factors in the control of tsetse flies ; the conditions desired for this control might be obtained by fire protection of natural vegetation rather than by costly planting programmes.
42594714|Forestry was started in the Colonial Empire with hopes of excesses of revenue over expenditure similar to those obtained in India. Colonial foresters found their timber forests were not as productive as they appeared and needed money put back into them to bring them to a state of steady and lucrative production. They also found that the preservation and extension of the indirect benefits of forestry and the maintenance of unremunerative fuel supplies for peasants were primary needs, often more essential than timber production. The foresters had to exploit and organize their timber forests and to attempt as much protective forestry as possible. They were frequently forced to ask their governments for appropriations exceeding the revenue they collected. Forest authorities have agreed that stable forestry is unlikely to be possible in such circumstances, but a White Paper recently issued by the Colonial Office has recognized that the primary role of forestry in the dependencies is to provide local assistance to rural economy. The period of the present war is an appropriate time to review local forest policies and activities and to submit to governments steady programmes in accordance with the terms of the White Paper. Requests for funds in excess of revenue collected are comparable with the demands of the social services, but are at a disadvantage in that the benefits of forestry are less rapid and less obvious. Also, the requests are generally put forward by officers less influential than the heads of the social services. It is suggested that the regional directors or inspector-generals of forests proposed by recent investigators in Africa could assist the governments of dependencies and their foresters as independent professional authorities, able to report on the utilization of funds and staff provided for forestry and on the adequacy or inadequacy of these. The function for which these regional officers were proposed was to effect co-ordination of policies over wider areas than is possible at present. To complete the co-ordination a head of the Colonial Forest Service has also been proposed. It is suggested that such an officer would be able to see that the best possible use is made of members of the service, over whose selection and training the Colonial Office takes a great deal of trouble.
42593626|Forest research has its place in modern war. So long as forest products are needed by the soldier or by the civilian behind the lines who supplies the soldier, just so long is forest research a necessity. And just because so much of it yields results only after many years of patient work, so is it all the more necessary to keep working even in war. It takes anything from fifty to a hundred and fifty years to produce mature timber even after research has told you how.
42595199|The paper is abridged from a report of a three weeks tour by the author through the Gambia Colony and Protectorate in 1936. The population averages fifty to the square mile, and most of the land is communally owned. The rainfall is erratic, the soil mostly sandy, and savannah forest, the composition of which is described, is the predominant type of vegetation. Apart from the river, navigable for 300 miles inland, communications are deficient. Cultivation of groundnuts as a cash crop is the main agricultural activity and involves entire destruction by burning of the existing woodlands. Grazing does much damage to tree growth in the dry season. Labour is expensive and in the rainy season hard to obtain. Sleeping sickness is rife. The only forms of forest produce used extensively are the Rhun palm (Borassus), bamboo and mangrove wood, and the two former show signs of depletion. A prosperous trade in mahogany once existed, but ceased about 1910, due to exhaustion of supplies. An attempt is made, with limited effect, to regulate forest use. The author finds evidence of progressive desiccation and regards soil impoverishment as a serious danger. Forest conservation would provide a corrective, the main requirement being protection from burning. A simple and inexpensive scheme is suggested for organizing and financing the protection of the forests.
42593633|Since 1936 the Forest Department of Trinidad has carried out wood preservation tests, and since June 1939 the tests have included Copper and Mercuric Naphthenates. The composition and properties of metallic naphthenates are discussed with particular reference to their solubility in oil and insolubility in water, and their water-proofing action. Woods, naturally susceptible to decay and termite attack, after treatment with concentrations of Copper Naphthenates and Mercuric Naphthenates of 20 to 2.5 per cent and 3.5 to 0.44 per cent respectively have withstood the severe conditions of a tropical timber graveyard for periods up to twenty months without deterioration. During a shorter period untreated test pieces of the same woods have been completely destroyed.
42594798|1. The development of theories of thinning is discussed with the interpolation of much irrelevant and irreverent matter. 2. Courageous thinning in accordance with the apparent needs of particular areas is advocated. 3. A Natural Law"An area of woodland which has been thinned has, ipso facto, been overthinned until the branches and foliage of the remaining trees have had time to adjust themselves to the altered conditions caused by that thinning". 4. The practical application of this law is discussed. It is stated that this is that thinnings should be so timed that no senior inspecting officer will see the thinned areas for a considerable time after thinnings have taken place.
42595816|The events of the most outstanding importance referred to in the foregoing sketch are : 1. The first realisation by politicians of the importance of forestry by the passing of a rudimentary Forest Act in 1874 ; and the appointment in 1876 of a Conservator of Forests. 2. The passing of the rather more comprehensive Forests Act of 1885, and in 1886 the gazetting of consequential regulations providing for a certain amount of forest management. 3. The realisation of the value of the afforesting of poor lands, and the starting of State afforestation under a special officer in 1896. 4. The adoption in about 1903 of much improved methods for the appraisal of Kauri. This occurred because of the greatly increased value of this timber and its fast lessening supplies. 5. The extension in about 1909 of the more efficient methods to the appraisal of the podocarpforests of the centre of the North Island. 6. The appointment of the Royal Commission on Forestry in 1913, which recommended, inter alia, the more efficient administration of the indigenous forests, the appointment of a Director of Forestry, a larger afforestation programme, and the conservation of forests at the sources of rivers. 7. The arrival in New Zealand in 1915 of the late Sir D. E. Hutchins, who, devoting his whole time to forestry propaganda, converted the press, the public, and the Government to a realisation of the importance of forests and having them managed by trained foresters, and founded the New Zealand Forestry League. 8. The establishment of the Forestry Department in 1919. 9. The enactment, through the initiation and agency of Sir F. H. D. Bell, of legislation authorising the making of "provisional "State forests. 10. The appointment in 1920 of the first Director of Forestry, L. Macintosh Ellis. 11. The passing of the Forests Act, 1921-22, the actual application of the provisions of the Act to forest management, and the re-organisation and augmentation of the Forestry Department. 12. The passing of the Forests Amendment Act of 1926, which took the administration of the forests in Mining Districts from the Mining Wardens, and transferred it to the Minister of Forests. 13. The starting of large-scale afforestation by private companies in 1922. 14. The afforesting by the State Forest Service of 168,000 acres in the three years 1928-29, 1929-30, 1930-31. 15. The holding of the Empire Forestry Conference in New Zealand in 1928.
42594857|Baikiaea plurijuga is the principal commercial sleeper timber of South Africa. A brief account of its occurrence, silviculture and exploitation in Northern Rhodesia is given.
42593063|The properties and occurrence of brittle heart which has been observed in numerous Australian species and particularly in the eucalypts, have been outlined. When material from brittle heart was macerated broken fibres were always obtained ; on the other hand, when material from truewood was macerated, the fibres remained whole. Further experiments indicated that broken fibres were derived from minute compression failures in the wood, and it has therefore been assumed that brittle heart and minute compression failures are synonymous. Gross compression failures have been considered in relation to minute compression failures, and it has been shown that the former do occur in zones outside the brittle heart. It has been suggested that gross and minute compression failures may be due to different causes. The need for more information on the occurrence of both gross and minute compression failures has been stressed, and such additional information is necessary before the causes of these failures can be determined.
42594428|Attention has recently been drawn in this Journal to the lack of achievement in Colonial Forest Botany. The criticisms apply equally to all other forest sciences. Scientific forestry stands in urgent need of planning, co-ordination and, above all, of reorganization. The internal organization of most forest departments requires the A.C.F. to be a jack-of-all-trades and loads him with administrative routine, so that he has no opportunity for scientific work. It is suggested that better use would be made of the training and capabilities of senior officers by a functional organization whereunder every man ol them becomes a specialist and administrative routine is turned over to intermediate grades. Regional teams of super-specialists are advocated to take care of planning and co-ordination and dissemination of knowledge.
42594017|The regional control of bush burning in British Tropical Africa is deemed to be ineffective, except in Nyasaland, because it is based on preventive legislation, and there has been no staff to enforce it. It is considered that control should be placed in the hands of Forest Departments, who alone have the experience and the staff, and that, except in the Glossina morsitans belt of East Africa, it should take the form of organized early burning sanctioned by positive legislation.
42593759|In considering the future of the E.F.A., the writer thinks it vitally important that the aims of the Association in the field of publicity should be more clearly defined. For example, he asks whether the Journal is to be regarded primarily as a periodical intended for professional reading or as an organ of forestry propaganda. He outlines his personal experiences of forestry publicity and propaganda and draws certain conclusions therefrom, particularly with regard to the ineffectiveness of public propaganda attempted without a suitable vehicle, and the comparative value of centralized and local propaganda. He thinks that the Association would be well advised to cut out propaganda and seek reconstitution as a professional society of foresters.
42593569|As part of an investigation into the relation between anatomical structure and the maximum crushing strength of home-grown Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis), the influence of the degree of inclination of the spirally arranged fibrils of the middle layer in the secondary tracheid wall was examined. A satisfactory method of determining the fibril angle from the slope of the ray pit apertures is described. The normal variation in fibril angle within the tree was determined and the causes of this are discussed. It is important to note that the major variation is associated also with variation in size and structure of the elements, and this should be borne in mind when correlating fibril angle with properties of the wood ; furthermore, in adult wood the angular variation is limited. No relation between fibril angle and crushing strength was found, and it is suggested that the positive relation found by other workers may have been due to the inclusion of wood near the pith or compression wood, both of which are characterized by a much higher fibril angle than normal adult wood, but differ also in other respects.
42594858|The position of the practice of forestry in both private and commercial forestry in Canada is described as in a very backward state. There does not seem to have been sufficient incentive to private owners to practice silviculture. Some details are given of cases where the successful practice of silviculture has been carried out. The outlook for better forestry management is given, but it will be a long time before it is widely enough practised.
42595102|The sequence of fellings, girdlings and cleanings used in the regeneration of Malayan evergreen forest is discussed. The influence of the increasing use of sawmills on this sequence, and the use of frill girdles poisoned with sodium arsenite for disposing of unwanted trees, are also described.
42593059|A general account is given of Forestry in Finland compiled from notes made during a tour of the country in the summer of 1937.
42595026|The suitability of the perforated index-card system for botanical identification is discussed, and a key of this type, for the trees and shrubs of Uganda, is described. Primarily, the key is intended for the field worker in the tropics, who is unlikely to have facilities for detailed dissection. Owing to its elasticity, and to the inter-changeability of character sequence, the method has many advantages as an alternative to the ordinary dichotomous key.
42594379|The age at which tropical trees attain various girths and their rate of growth in girth is essential for management. Owing to the fact that they show no annual rings or very indistinct rings of unknown relation to the chronological year, this constitutes a very considerable problem. Little work has been published so far dealing directly with this question. The results of a study on rate of growth in English woods with a view to developing a technique for tropical conditions is given. A possible method is suggested of forming a continuous growth curve from the individual curves of various size classes derived from measurements over a period of years, but this can only be done if the category dominance of the individual tree is taken into consideration. The average rate of growth required for forest management is discussed, and the argument advanced that it is the average rate of growth of the dominant trees within each size class in irregular forests. A technique for collecting the necessary data under tropical conditions is suggested.
42593559|An account of how the Indian Forest Department is attempting to introduce forest conservancy in tribal territory on the North-West Frontier.
42595107|The personal traits which seem to be most necessary for administrative work in forests are considered, with particular reference to the Indian Forest Department during its middle period. The words "administration" and "forester" are used in their widest sense.
42591859|In this paper is explained how the Union has to rely on the cultivation of exotics and especially of the cultivation of exotic conifers in order to cope with its present dependence on importations to supply its timber requirements. The history of the introduction of conifers into the country from van Riebeek's day down to the present time is sketched and information is given of various genera such as Abies, Picea, Pseudotsuga and Larix that have so far been tried with negative results. The silviculture of half-a-dozen of the conifers now being most widely used for afforestation is discussed in some detail and particulars are afforded of many others which are being grown on a smaller scale. Finally in connection with the whole subject the need and importance of research work is stressed.
42593058|Prior to the initiation of forestry in 1920, the interior of British Honduras was virtually unknown except to a small section of the inhabitants engaged in the collection of forest produce. Throughout the colony's history economic circumstances had favoured forest exploitation to the neglect of agricultural development and, as such exploitation had been selective and exhaustive in character, the need for a broader productive economy was beginning to make itself felt. The article traces the progress made since that time in accumulating data on vegetation, soil, topography and latterly climate, and describes the evolution in survey methods from the first rapid reconnaissances to the more elaborate ecological surveys now carried out with topo Abney and trailer tape. The mestizos of the North, who are "natural ecologists" with a vegetation-type terminology of their own, have become highly proficient in such work. The objective at the outset was the investigation of forestry possibilities, but the knowledge accumulated has proved of much wider usefulness in relation to the general problems of rural development, and the value of vegetation types as indicators of soil quality has grown steadily more apparent. Vegetation survey has enabled better control of shifting cultivation, so that valuable forest is sacrificed to a less extent to this activity, and has shown where and how permanent agriculture can best be established. Communications can be planned to open up the more fertile lands, the location of which was previously unknown, and causes of erosion can be traced. Close co-operation has been maintained throughout with the agricultural and other departments concerned, and the forest staff have come to regard themselves as members of an organization engaged on the general problem of rural development, forestry being only one facet of its activities.
42595344|The renewal of the oak-woods in the New Forest is of importance, both from the point of view of the amenities and as a future source of oak timber. The available evidence shows that merchantable oak timber has been produced in the New Forest in the past, but more definite information is required as to the quality of that timber and the particular areas from which it was obtained. It seems not unlikely that in the remote past the best timber may have been cut on what are now private agricultural and pastoral lands of the lowlands within the Forest boundaries. Some of the best grown oak now standing, planted a little over 200 years ago, is to be found on the edge of the Plateau Gravel cap, where this thins off into the clays below ; but this, it is said, is likely to be "shaky". Plantations on certain soils often show poor growth, die-back of crown, andnot infrequentlydeath of the whole tree. The reasons for this state of affairs, and suitable remedies, require investigation. The problem resolves itself into one of ascertaining what factors are causing unsatisfactory growth, and what are the actual conditions requisite for the production of first-class oak timber within the New Forest area. The problem may be summarized briefly in the form of the following questions : A. The kinds of oak (species, varieties and races) : a. Which of these are growing in the forest ? b. Which of these are doing well, and which badly ? c. Does one sort do better on one soil than on another ? B. The kinds of soil : d. On what types of soil are the oaks growing ? e. Which type is producing good, and which producing poor oak ? f. Are any of the soils on which oak is now growing unsuited to oak production? g. If so, can these soils be improved economically or "reconditioned" by the use of other kinds of tree ? C. Soil indicators : h. What correlation, if any, exists between the kind of oak and the kind of soil ? i. What vegetation communities can be used as indicators of those types of soil which will produce good or poor oak? It will be recognized that full and reliable answers to these questions, and others which are certain to arise in the course of such an inquiry, can only be obtained by careful investigation in which the systematist, the ecologist, and the soil scientist would collaborate fully.
42595542|The importance of the equatorial forests, potentially as a source of raw material and actually for the protection that they afford against adverse climatic influences, is undoubted, but in populous regions their existence is threatened by pressure on the land and particularly by shifting cultivation. The inhabitants of these regions are slow to appreciate the indirect influences of forest growth, but would be more disposed to protect their forests if they were taught how to use them more fully. Native use is backward, but with the general rise in standards of living and purchasing power the availability of cheaply produced mill-sawn timber would rapidly stimulate demand. There is no hope of such low-cost production by outside capital, which is interested chiefly in the relatively high profits to be made in oversea markets ; but, with the right sort of technical instruction in the use of sawmill and woodworking machinery of a simple type, and other Government aid of an inexpensive kind, it could be developed by indigenous agency, as has been done with signal success in Malaya. A native sawmill industry can cater for all markets, and secures relatively intensive utilization of forest resources, including large quantities of low-grade material which selective exploitation leaves untouched ; and the logging technique employed can be adapted to silvicultural requirements. Development on such lines expedites the process of converting primeval forest, which as a rule contains only limited quantities of material suitable for export, into valuable timber crops under regular management which should be able to contribute largely to oversea trade. An analysis is attempted of the economic motives for selective exploitation, and the wastefulness and impermanence of this practice, and its undesirability from the standpoint of the forest owner, are discussed.
42595197|1. Agricultural crops of economic importance in the Gold Coast are dependent on forest protection for their growth. Their successful cultivation is threatened by extensive deforestation, principally as the result of shifting cultivation. 2. The danger is realized and the observable effects of extensive deforestation discussed. 3. The more important factors involved are enumerated and it is suggested that the controlling factors are climatic ones. 4. In order to arrive at a correlation between vegetation and climatic factors expressed in terms of rainfall the floristic values of six stations are classified and corresponding rainfall figures analysed. 5. A correlation is shown between floristic values and dry season moisture conditions, expressed in degrees of wetness. 6. It is concluded that the limiting factor in vegetational distribution is the length and intensity of the dry season. 7. The possibility of interaction between vegetation and climatic factors is suggested and the presumed process bringing about a transition from closed forest to savannah outlined. 8. An example is given in which a reverse process of "re-vegetation" has occurred and unfavourable climatic conditions have been ameliorated. 9. It is claimed that, in certain circumstances, vegetation and limiting climatic factors are interdependent. 10. Forests, therefore, take on an added value where agricultural crops of economic importance are subject to delicately balanced climatic conditions.
42593062|Attention is drawn to the lack of uniformity amongst annual reports on forest administration and to the difficulty experienced by members of the Colonial Forest Service in supplying information required on the occasion of Empire Forestry Conferences. The suggestion is put forward that the 1936 annual report on forest administration in Malaya might serve as a basis for a standard form of report that would serve both purposes.
42591997|Studies in variation in the black wattle are reported. This tree lends itself well to treatment according to modern concepts of plant breeding. Preliminary results are given, and these show definite possibilities for improvement within the variety. In view of the importance of the wattle industry to the world's supplies of vegetable tanning materials, results achieved should be of economic value. Evidence has been presented to show that the plant-to-row method of breeding, when applied to the wattle tree, gives results similar to those which would be expected of an agricultural crop. In progeny tests differences have already been established in form, foliage, vigour and disease resistance. Recessive characters also occur, and these should be of value in further studies on inheritance.
42595112|(1) A description is given of a laboratory method of testing the resistance to decay of timberssmall selected samples are exposed to fungal attack under controlled conditions for four or eight months, and the amount of attack estimated from the percentage loss in dry weight caused by the test fungi. (2) The results obtained with a number of species of Empire and home-grown timbers are tabulated and the timbers are classified on a basis of their resistance to decay. (3) The nature of decay resistance and the importance of the soluble extractives in increasing the resistance of a timber to fungal decay are discussed.
42594391|1. Nine years' observations of field experiments at Wareham Forest have shown that application of compost in the presence of adequate phosphate at sowing almost entirely prevents the development of fused needle in Pinus contorta, a species specially prone to this disorder on the area. 2. Similar applications to a nine-year-old stand of P. contorta already showing 6o per cent of the trees affected has reduced the incidence of fused needle 50 per cent in the course of five years. 3. Basic slag alone produces definite amelioration, but the effect appears not to be lasting.
42594950|1. A series of mechanical tests were carried out on small selected samples of Obeche cut from a freshly imported log. One set of tests was made on samples which were exposed under controlled conditions to infection with Botryodiplodia theobromae, a fungus which frequently causes staining of this timber in the log, and the other set of tests was carried out on carefully matched control samples. In each case one-half of the samples were sterilized by intermittent steaming. 2. Infection with the fungus brings about (a) a marked reduction in toughness amounting in one group of heavily stained specimens to 43 per cent, (b) a definite reduction in bending strength which in one group amounted to 19.7 per cent, (c) a reduction of about 7 per cent in stiffness in the unsterilized timber, and a negligible change in the sterilized timber, (d) a reduction in specific gravitythe maximum loss found amounting to 12.5 per cent. 3. Chemical analysis of the heavily stained samples shows that the fungus causes a marked depletion in the content of water soluble materials, and that it also attacks the cellulose, pentosans and lignin, behaving like a typical white rot fungus.
42595545|The relation between growth features of the trunk and the occurrence of compression wood was examined with the object of facilitating rejection of timber containing this tissue, which is difficult to detect and is responsible for severe warping. Compression wood was found near the centre of each log, but its presence here or elsewhere showed no definite relation to stem eccentricity, flutings, branching, growth rate, or colour of the wood.
42593625|1. The occurrence at Wareham Forest, Dorset, of fused needle in plantations of Corsican pine, Mountain pine and Scots pine, species not hitherto recorded, as susceptible, is described. Included are records of fused needle affecting P. contorta in Wales, Mountain pine in Yorkshire, and P. halepensis in Arizona. The incidence of this disorder is believed to be more widespread than is generally recognized. 2. Observations and experiments by the writer have shown : (a) That recovery from fused needle occurs immediately by providing conditions that favour short root production and the establishment of a normal mycorrhizal system ; also that the incidence of fused needle is associated with the arrest of short root development and mycorrhiza-formation rather than with consistent poverty of mycorrhizas. (b) That fused needle is not transmitted by grafting. (c) That it is not due to a deficiency of zinc or boron. (d) That the degree of incidence is reduced by phosphatic dressings, probably as a result of direct stimulation of fungal activity. 3. Some aspects of Young's important monograph on fused needle in Australia are considered critically. The present writer shares most of the views put forward, and experiments at Wareham provide confirmation for some of them. Exception is taken, however, to the "carbohydrate hypothesis" as a basis on which to account for the development of symptoms of fused needle. 4. A new hypothesis is presented in which the appearance of fused needle is ascribed to a sudden shortage of water in the plant at the time the leaves are beginning to expand, the deficiency arising from greatly reduced root absorption owing to failure of the root system to provide functional short roots and mycorrhizas at this critical period in the life cycle. 5. Careful study of the distinct phases of growth associated with root and shoot activity respectively in different species of Pine, and the effect of disturbance of normal correlations in this respect, is called for in order to determine how far the arrest of short root development and mycorrhiza-formation observable in all Pine plants showing symptoms of fused needle is responsible for the development of such symptoms.
42595019|1. A general description and brief historical outline of the island of Jamaica is given. 2. The country can be divided into four major regions, which have distinctive geology, climate, vegetation and land use : (a) The interior mountains. (b) The white limestone plateau. (c) The coastal hills. (d) The alluvial plains. Typical tree species in each region are mentioned. 3. The policy of the Forest Branch emphasizes the protective value of forests in the fight against erosion, and secondarily the development of better local timber utilization. 4. A Ten-point programme to implement the above policy is outlined.
42595105|The article is in itself a summary of a detailed report on a tour made in West and North Africa, the U.S.A. and the Far East to study anti-erosion work, desiccation problems and forest influences. The material is arranged under four headings : Erosion Control, Shelter Belts, Sand Dune Fixation and Experimental Stations. The principal conclusion drawn is that the most important factor in the control of erosion on non-arable land is vegetation cover, and that the more elaborate engineering measures are economic only for the protection of land of high productivity or site value.
42593560|The dry forests situated in the goldfields region of Western Australia are described. There are two zones, the Eucalypt and the Mulga (Acacia). Notes are given on the quality and supply of mining timber and firewood from the forests and the silvicultural characteristics of the types are discussed.
42593567|(1) The strength properties of samples of Canadian Western red cedar heartwood possessing a dark brown colour have been compared with those having the normal light colour. It was found that the dark-coloured heartwood was less tough, softer and weaker in compression than the normal light-coloured heartwood, the reduction in each of these strength properties being about 20 per cent. The dark material had also lower specific gravity than the light, this difference in specific gravity being closely correlated with the difference in strength. (2) Fungus mycelium was almost invariably present in the darker wood and absent in the light-coloured wood. (3) It is concluded that the dark coloration, lower specific gravity and reduced strength properties are brought about by fungal attack. (4) The fungal hyphae were observed to have penetrated the cell walls in the manner described as typical of Poria weirii, but definite identification of the fungus present was not possible, and the alterations observed may be brought about by a fungus of the staining type.
42594330|This paper states what has been learnt from twelve years' detailed observation and from records made over a much longer period on the African Alpine Bamboo (Arundinaria alpina K. Schum) in Kenya, where it grows gregariously over 700 square miles of montane forest between 8,000 and 10,000 feet above sea level. A single acre holds 4,000 to 7,000 culms, of average size 45-50 feet high and 2 inches diameter. The factors influencing production of new culms are discussed, and actual production figures are given for the years 1932-1943. The life of a single culm is believed to be about twelve to fourteen years. Present evidence points to a life-cycle of over forty years in the locality under observation. At the end of the life cycle the bamboo flowers, seeds, and dies. The flowering is gregarious, but not so far recorded as affecting more than a few hundred acres at a time. The recovery period (for normal full-sized culms again to be produced) is found to be eight or nine years after clear-cutting, or seven to eight years if 10 per cent of the old culms are left standing at the time of cutting. The cutting cycle (period required to produce a full normal stand after clear cutting) is found to be fourteen to twenty-one years, depending upon site. The yield from clear-cutting bamboos is on the average forty tons air-dry bamboo per acre. Immunity to bamboo-borers (Dinoderus minutus and others) is given by standing freshly-cut bamboos with all their leaves on, for twenty-four hours in a 2 per cent solution of Wolman Salts or a 4 per cent solution of borax.
42595540|Notwithstanding its great density of population Japan has already 55 per cent of its area under permanent forest ; scrub lands forming 11.5 per cent of the country are reserved for afforestation. Copious well-distributed rainfall is the main factor favouring forests in Japan. Much forest has been reserved mainly for its protection value. Omitting Chosen, Karafuto and Jaiwan, the area in hectares under conifers is 5,465,530, under broad-leaved trees 9,162,379, and under mixed forest 5,969,880. There are about 600 species of trees, of which 103 are conifers. Forest policy is on a par with that of the most advanced European States, but the administration is divided amongst several authorities. In Japan Proper the staffs of the various authorities aggregate between 9000 and 10,000 officers. Education in forestry is amply provided for by 53 schools, four of which are of the University grade. Research is carried out at two well-equipped stations. The area of forest planted in Old Japan in the last forty-five years is about eight million acres. The chief trees planted are crytomeria, Hinoki cypress, larch and red pine, all indigenous. In Crown and State forests the rotation is from seventy to 100 years ; in private forests from thirty to fifty years. The fundamental principle of management is sustained yield. The amount of timber produced is 525,599,519 cub. ft., and the consumption 648,670,935 cub. ft. The amount imported is 94,308,420 cub. ft. Though Japan does not produce enough timber for her own requirements, nevertheless a considerable amount is exported, mainly to China. It is considered that with the further afforestation of scrub lands Japan will be selfsupporting in fifty years' time, even with a great increase of population.
42594799|A general account is given of the Bermuda Islands, their climate, topography, soil and other environmental factors. A short outline is given of the tree flora and plant communities, followed by some notes on the character and utilization of Juniperus bermudiana timber.
42594859|In Nigeria for the past fifty years selective felling of the few merchantable species has gone on and the resources of large-sized Mahogany and Obeche are diminishing. Intensive exploitation by a forest sawmill industry is envisaged and research is being carried out to determine the value of the many timbers which occur, what treatment is required in their logging, seasoning and preservation, and for what uses they can be employed. The range of investigations is described with some details of the methods employed and of the simple machines which have been devised to carry out a preliminary survey of the strength properties of Nigerian timbers. Investigations of minor Forest Produce are also briefly reviewed.
42595543|The origin of Bush Fire Brigades in Victoria, their present status and equipment, are described. Particulars are given of how they are financed, controlled and their work co-ordinated with that of appropriate Government Departments and other agencies. The system of administration adopted, and the legislation under which they work, is discussed. An estimate of the value and possibilities of the Bush Fire Brigade movement is submitted.
42595874|1. The appearance of "stone "is described and three types are distinguished. 2. Observation of natural wounds. Field observations showed that "stone" is to be looked for in the wounds and scars of standing trees, and its association with abnormal tissues is seen during the conversion of lumber. The depositions of concretions on the stem surface was seen to occur on the stalactite principle from a sap exudation stream. 3. Artificial wounding did not lead directly to sap exudation or stone formation, but exudation comparable to that seen in active natural wounds following insect attack in the cambial region of the artificially exposed surfaces. 4. Sources of "natural "wounds are discussed, and fire and wind are considered the most important. 5. Analyses of stone samples and of sap samples by Drs. Martin and Griffiths are tabulated. 6. The suggestion is made that the concretions have their source in sap exudation streams which are maintained over a long period by insect activity.
42595541|The results of this preliminary experiment indicate the possibility of rendering timber immune from Powder-post beetle infestation by immersion of the newly-felled logs in water for a few months. The method should be especially applicable in tropical and sub-tropical countries where the water temperature is relatively high.
42595195|Alarm expressed with regard to threatened desiccation and desert encroachment in the region described is considered to be doubtfully justified. The region forms the borderland of a great and ancient natural desert which has fluctuated in extent with changes in world climate, such changes being so slow as to have a negligible effect on any one civilization. The present climate is more humid than that of the immediate geological past, and tree growth now covers areas which were formerly desert dune systems. There is no evidence of a lowering of the water-table or of any advance of sand. Sand and dunes have been exposed to the elements by recent deforestation, but not imported nor created by it. Even if there were sand encroachment there would be no need to create any barrier against it, for a natural barrier exists in the shape of a belt 100 miles wide of Acacia tortilis and Commiphora "01chard bush" between the farmlands and the desert. This belt is naturally protected because its rainfall is insufficient to permit of agriculture. The Sahara has become derelict from economic, not climatic causes, in consequence of a complete reversal of the trade flow of the western Sudan from a northward to a southward direction. Southward movement of population has been due to economic and trade factors, including the extension of the Nigerian Railway, and not to increasing aridity in the northern lands. The tendency of the vegetation to become more xeromorphic with progress northward is normal in a region in which the character of the vegetation is determined by tropical rains brought by a south-west wind. The desert edge is far north of Nigeria, and savannah forest reaches practically to the 16th parallel of latitude : the deforested farmlands along the International Boundary and the treeless but grassy dune country of the Manga, north of Bornu, are merely interruptions of that forest. Degradation of vegetation-type in the region, extensive as it may be, is entirely due to cultivation and confined to farmlands. The real danger in Northern Nigeria is not desert encroachment but the development of intensive agriculture, in a region of light sandy soil and short, precarious rainfall, at a rate which is outpacing the development of sound farming methods and particularly of the use of manure, which must, if cultivation is to be permanent, replace the "bush fallow" of shifting cultivation. The remedies lie in a proper planning of the use of land and its conservative management for different purposesagriculture, pasturage, the supply of forest produce, the control of run-off in catchment areas and so on ; and in closer co-operation than has hitherto existed between the various agencies concerned, in particular the Forestry, Agricultural, Veterinary and Geological departments of Government.
42595194|Satisfactory progress in silvicultural research and other branches of scientific forestry is, to a greater or less extent, dependent upon an adequate, accurate knowledge of trees. In territories where forests are of the rain forest type, in which species are very numerous and their vernacular names varied and uncertain in application, the acquisition of such knowledge calls for special action. The method of tackling the problem in Malaya, by means of scheme of standardization of vernacular names, is described. Three stages in the operation of the scheme are recognized : 1. Collection in the field of adequate botanical material and information concerning vernacular names. 2. Botanical research to define and name the species, and selection of a "preferred" name for each species or closely related group of species. 3. Promotion of the use of the selected name in preference to all others, by means of a published List of Botanical and Vernacular Equivalents", subject to periodic revision, through the medium of the vernacular forest school, etc. It is claimed that the scheme will make forest officers comparatively independent of changes in botanical names. A reference is made to the confusion resulting from failure to distinguish between the names and definitions of trees and timbers.
42594793|This article contains technical forestry notes made during a visit to South Africa in 1939. Not having been privileged to attend the Empire Forestry Conference held in South Africa in 1935, I decided during furlough in 1939 to follow in the footsteps of the great and to see for myself something of forestry methods in the Union. Through the courtesy of Mr. J. D. M. Keet, Director of Forestry, and Dr. I. J. Craib, Chief Research Officer, who kindly arranged my tour programme, I was able to visit the Eastern Transvaal, Natal and parts of the Cape Province. No mention has been made in these notes of the management of Wattles in Natal, as this has been written up in a separate article for the East African Agricultural Journal.
42595544|The natural succession to the climax type of evergreen high forest of broadleaved trees in the highlands of Kenya has in some places been diverted in past time by fire to a sub-climax of pure African pencil cedar (Juniperus procera) or a mixture of cedar with broadleaved trees. The vegetational succession from a burnt forest area to this sub-climax, and thence to the true climax type, can be studied in the Kinangop Forest on the western slopes of the Aberdare Range. Here protection of the forest from fire in the past twenty years has prevented further regeneration of cedar in forest, but has encouraged its colonization of grassland round the forest edge. This process is extremely slow and continuity in the restocking of the forest with cedar is being ensured by planting.
42594863|A plea is made that forest officers in the colonies should devote more attention to the planning of land utilization, based on soil and ecological surveys. It is endeavoured to show, by reference to Trinidad, how many mistakes in land use occurred in the past, leading to wastage of forest capital and soil fertility, and how the planning of land is now being carried on under a Lands Advisory Committee ; how ecological and soil surveys have been carried out, and how pure forestry itself benefits from these.
42594792|The Budongo forest in Uganda is described. In the introductory section information is given regarding situation, area, topography, climate, demarcation and survey, rights and privileges, working plan, permissible yields and actual fellings, history of exploitation, methods of extraction, markets and marketable timbers, forest fees and labour costs. A second section describes succession, structure and composition, and gives figures of stem-counts in different types of forest. In the final section the regeneration of Mahogany, Chlorophora and Maesopsis is discussed. In the case of Mahogany, most success has been achieved by the line-group planting of large stripped plants.
42594947|The term "deciduous" conveys an impression of xerophilous conditions caused either by drought or frost. Leaf-shedding of certain species in Tropical Rain-Forest appears to be a sexual character rather than connected with a resting period, during xerophilous conditions. If this is borne out by further observations, a clear distinction must be made between truly deciduous and sexually deciduous formations in descriptions of tropical forests, and a new terminology adopted.
42594803|The examination was carried out on disks at different heights from four trees of Juniperus procera Hochst, two grown in exposed conditions in natural forest and two grown in a sheltered plantation. Compression wood was found to be much more prevalent in trees grown in exposed natural forest than in material from a sheltered plantation. Also its distribution was more definitely related to the direction of the prevailing wind in the former. The plantation-grown timber was generally less hard and dense and paler in heartwood colour, but contained a larger proportion of sapwood. Observations are included on the structure and formation of the growth rings in this tropical species of Juniperus.
42595345|Natural compression-failures are found near the centre of logs, in the form of irregular zig-zag fractures across the grain. Various suggestions which have been made to account for their occurrence are discussed in the light of observations on affected specimens. The problem of natural compression-failures is considered in relation to the phenomenon of "brittle-heart" in certain timbers. From the available evidence it is concluded that natural compression-failures are probably due to wind action or other external force bending the trunk of the tree during the comparatively early years of its life.
42594335|This paper deals chiefly with two groups of new wood products(1) those in which the wood has been modified by mechanical or physical means, and (2) those in which the wood has been converted by chemicals or heat into some entirely different form. The author believes that these new products will supplement rather than replace such standard products as lumber, veneer, and pulp, and stresses the dependence of all of the wood-using industries upon continuous, balanced production of the wood crop from managed forests
42594860|The Kyetpyugan Teak Plantations were started in 1865 with a view to producing concentrated stocks of teak timber in readily accessible localities for export. Unfortunately the site was ill-chosen and capable only of producing inferior quality of teak suitable only for local supply. Past treatment of the plantations is described and the results to date of felling and replanting with a view to the supply of local requirements of Teak and Pyinkado are given.
42594022|A small termite resistance test among the deciduous woodlands of Northern Rhodesia, started in 1933, has shown that seven local species are very resistant indeed : that the common Brachystegia and Isoberlinia timbers of that region last hardly two years in the ground : that impregnation at a wide range of absorptions with Sodium Arsenite cr Arsenious Oxide preserves these woods against termites for six years : and that impregnation with Zinc Chloride (4.75 per cent) is effective only for two.
42593822|There are indications that the importance of Colonial Forest Botany lacks appreciation in some circles, due, in the writer's opinion, mainly to the facts that its precise function has for so long been undefined, and that Botanists and Foresters have failed to collaborate adequately in the solution of a problem demanding mutual understanding and joint action. A statement is made of the basic botanical requirements of foresters which, it is shown, neither the efforts of the foresters themselves, the Imperial Forestry Institute, nor the botanists, have adequately satisfied. Causes of these failures are sought with a view to tackling the problem more adequately in the future, and it is shown that the crux of the matter is collaboration between botanists and field biologists in the solution of a colonial problem. It is stated that unilateral attempts at solution would be fatal, but a constructive plan is outlined to provide the basis for discussion and to stimulate interest. The plan involves admission of the necessity for the production of "Field Floras" in situ and not in European herbaria, and provision of the necessary Field Botanists by recruiting them into the Colonial Forest Service. This plan is drawn up in the interests of field biologists as a whole, but it has certain obvious advantages to colonial foresters, and these are detailed. The opinion is expressed that the time was never more opportune for rationalization of Colonial Forest Botany. But agreement among Foresters is only the first step; it must be followed by understanding with the Botanists, and, finally, a joint approach must be made to those who are in a position to grant a charter which will make it possible to put into operation a rational long-term policy.
42594435|Research on wood-uses has hitherto been focused on comparison of the properties of hitherto unutilized woods with woods already established in specific industries. Establishment, in many cases, it is contended, is purely traditional, and it is suggested that a consideration of first principles replace search for mere substitutes. A method of procedure to this end is described, and its extension to embrace materials other than wood, considered.
42594862|1. The Imperial Forestry Bureau is part of the Imperial Agricultural Bureaux organization and is an entirely separate institution from the Imperial Forestry Institute ; it is separately financed and disposes of its publications independently of the Institute. The Bureau has full access to the Institute's library and co-operation between the two institutions is secured by the appointment of the Professor of Forestry at the Institute as ex officio Director of the Bureau ; the full-time Bureau officer in charge is styled the Deputy Director. 2. The types of service, particularly publications, offered by the Bureau are discussed in relation to the objects of the Imperial Agricultural Bureau organization as a whole, and the special facilities open to contributing governments are described. 3. A list is given of the liaison officers of the Imperial Agricultural Bureaux and of the official correspondents of the Imperial Forestry Bureau and their functions are briefly explained.
42595024|In 1929 the Government of Ceylon introduced important changes in the system of Land Administration embodying the principle of planning in advance the uses to which Crown land should be put. This new system, known locally as "Mapping-out", has passed the experimental stage. It involves various steps such as survey, settlement and planning. The Forest Department is intimately concerned in the procedure employed, and Forest Reservation plays an important part in the general scheme. The general principles involved in the system are applicable to other countries. The recently introduced procedure with regard to land planning is a great improvement upon the previous more or less haphazard methods followed. The present methods are described and its results examined.
42594861|The above notes by Mr. Willan deal with the remote north-west portion of Nyasaland, about which we have very little information. It is a region of particular botanical interest on account of its geographical position and topographical features ; its careful exploration is likely to throw useful light on the connexion between the floras of East and West Tropical Africa. I had planned to visit this area in 1929, but circumstances over which I had no control intervened to prevent it. Mr. Willan's notes add to our knowledge of the region. The following are among the more important points he has dealt with : 1. It is interesting to find evidences of a more extensive occurrence of Juniperus procera in former times ; that large trees of this species still remain, "relics of a much larger area"; and that there are evidences of regeneration where protection is afforded. 2. The occurrence of coppice of Albizzia maranguensis in Mountain Grassland on the Nchisi-Chintembwe uplands is important, suggesting as it does that considerable areas of this type of grassland were once occupied by Upper Montane Evergreen Rain-forest, connecting the now isolated patches into what was once, no doubt, a continuous belt of this forest type. It would be instructive to have an area of this montane grassland, of sufficient size, fire-protected over a period of years with annual records of the vegetational succession. 3. The cultivation and use of a native bamboo by the Sukwa tribe in the Misuku Hills is interesting and suggestive. If the cultivation of this bamboo could be extended among the native tribes of Central Africa it might help to reduce the destruction of sapling trees for hut construction. 4. The native use of species of Acacia as soil indicators is an interesting and important point. Three species (A. campylacantha, A. woodii and A. albida) are characteristic of soils of considerable fertility. 5. Among other interesting facts recorded are the occurrence of the Oil-palm (Elaeis guineensis) at Chinteche, and of large trees of Mvule, Chlorophora excelsa, in localities where its occurrence was previously unknown ; the apparent absence of the Psyllid gall fly may make possible the successful cultivation of this important timber tree. 6. The author concludes thatin that part of Africa, at leastBrachystegia woodland is a secondary type of vegetation which has successfully asserted itself and assumed a degree of stability under conditions favourable to it.
42594870|A key of the multiple-entry is described for use in field identification of hardwood timbers with the aid of a card.
42595202|The forest types in Nigeria range from Mangrove in the south to Desert Scrub in the north, and between these extremes lies the broad equatorial forest belt formerly comprising climax Rain and climax Mixed Deciduous forest. Cultivation and bush fires have replaced extensive areas of these climax types with open grass woodlands, popularly known as Savannah forests. These Savannah forests are, in the moist zone, temporary : protection from cultivation and fire leads to the succession of the climax forests which are closed canopy formations. Fire control experiments have shown that under certain conditions this succession is rapid ; on a large scale it would have far-reaching effects on the rural economy of the country. Erosion would be checked, bush fires prevented* and soil fertility recovered. The interspersal of shelter belts of closed forest would maintain the optimum climatic conditions for the cultivation of certain crops, e. g. cocoa. Important timber trees would reappear naturally, and gradually local timber supplies would be built up for the future. The density and the canopy of the forest are important factors in the control of tsetse flies ; the conditions desired for this control might be obtained by fire protection of natural vegetation rather than by costly planting programmes.
42594714|Forestry was started in the Colonial Empire with hopes of excesses of revenue over expenditure similar to those obtained in India. Colonial foresters found their timber forests were not as productive as they appeared and needed money put back into them to bring them to a state of steady and lucrative production. They also found that the preservation and extension of the indirect benefits of forestry and the maintenance of unremunerative fuel supplies for peasants were primary needs, often more essential than timber production. The foresters had to exploit and organize their timber forests and to attempt as much protective forestry as possible. They were frequently forced to ask their governments for appropriations exceeding the revenue they collected. Forest authorities have agreed that stable forestry is unlikely to be possible in such circumstances, but a White Paper recently issued by the Colonial Office has recognized that the primary role of forestry in the dependencies is to provide local assistance to rural economy. The period of the present war is an appropriate time to review local forest policies and activities and to submit to governments steady programmes in accordance with the terms of the White Paper. Requests for funds in excess of revenue collected are comparable with the demands of the social services, but are at a disadvantage in that the benefits of forestry are less rapid and less obvious. Also, the requests are generally put forward by officers less influential than the heads of the social services. It is suggested that the regional directors or inspector-generals of forests proposed by recent investigators in Africa could assist the governments of dependencies and their foresters as independent professional authorities, able to report on the utilization of funds and staff provided for forestry and on the adequacy or inadequacy of these. The function for which these regional officers were proposed was to effect co-ordination of policies over wider areas than is possible at present. To complete the co-ordination a head of the Colonial Forest Service has also been proposed. It is suggested that such an officer would be able to see that the best possible use is made of members of the service, over whose selection and training the Colonial Office takes a great deal of trouble.
42593626|Forest research has its place in modern war. So long as forest products are needed by the soldier or by the civilian behind the lines who supplies the soldier, just so long is forest research a necessity. And just because so much of it yields results only after many years of patient work, so is it all the more necessary to keep working even in war. It takes anything from fifty to a hundred and fifty years to produce mature timber even after research has told you how.
42595199|The paper is abridged from a report of a three weeks tour by the author through the Gambia Colony and Protectorate in 1936. The population averages fifty to the square mile, and most of the land is communally owned. The rainfall is erratic, the soil mostly sandy, and savannah forest, the composition of which is described, is the predominant type of vegetation. Apart from the river, navigable for 300 miles inland, communications are deficient. Cultivation of groundnuts as a cash crop is the main agricultural activity and involves entire destruction by burning of the existing woodlands. Grazing does much damage to tree growth in the dry season. Labour is expensive and in the rainy season hard to obtain. Sleeping sickness is rife. The only forms of forest produce used extensively are the Rhun palm (Borassus), bamboo and mangrove wood, and the two former show signs of depletion. A prosperous trade in mahogany once existed, but ceased about 1910, due to exhaustion of supplies. An attempt is made, with limited effect, to regulate forest use. The author finds evidence of progressive desiccation and regards soil impoverishment as a serious danger. Forest conservation would provide a corrective, the main requirement being protection from burning. A simple and inexpensive scheme is suggested for organizing and financing the protection of the forests.
42593633|Since 1936 the Forest Department of Trinidad has carried out wood preservation tests, and since June 1939 the tests have included Copper and Mercuric Naphthenates. The composition and properties of metallic naphthenates are discussed with particular reference to their solubility in oil and insolubility in water, and their water-proofing action. Woods, naturally susceptible to decay and termite attack, after treatment with concentrations of Copper Naphthenates and Mercuric Naphthenates of 20 to 2.5 per cent and 3.5 to 0.44 per cent respectively have withstood the severe conditions of a tropical timber graveyard for periods up to twenty months without deterioration. During a shorter period untreated test pieces of the same woods have been completely destroyed.
42594798|1. The development of theories of thinning is discussed with the interpolation of much irrelevant and irreverent matter. 2. Courageous thinning in accordance with the apparent needs of particular areas is advocated. 3. A Natural Law"An area of woodland which has been thinned has, ipso facto, been overthinned until the branches and foliage of the remaining trees have had time to adjust themselves to the altered conditions caused by that thinning". 4. The practical application of this law is discussed. It is stated that this is that thinnings should be so timed that no senior inspecting officer will see the thinned areas for a considerable time after thinnings have taken place.
42595816|The events of the most outstanding importance referred to in the foregoing sketch are : 1. The first realisation by politicians of the importance of forestry by the passing of a rudimentary Forest Act in 1874 ; and the appointment in 1876 of a Conservator of Forests. 2. The passing of the rather more comprehensive Forests Act of 1885, and in 1886 the gazetting of consequential regulations providing for a certain amount of forest management. 3. The realisation of the value of the afforesting of poor lands, and the starting of State afforestation under a special officer in 1896. 4. The adoption in about 1903 of much improved methods for the appraisal of Kauri. This occurred because of the greatly increased value of this timber and its fast lessening supplies. 5. The extension in about 1909 of the more efficient methods to the appraisal of the podocarpforests of the centre of the North Island. 6. The appointment of the Royal Commission on Forestry in 1913, which recommended, inter alia, the more efficient administration of the indigenous forests, the appointment of a Director of Forestry, a larger afforestation programme, and the conservation of forests at the sources of rivers. 7. The arrival in New Zealand in 1915 of the late Sir D. E. Hutchins, who, devoting his whole time to forestry propaganda, converted the press, the public, and the Government to a realisation of the importance of forests and having them managed by trained foresters, and founded the New Zealand Forestry League. 8. The establishment of the Forestry Department in 1919. 9. The enactment, through the initiation and agency of Sir F. H. D. Bell, of legislation authorising the making of "provisional "State forests. 10. The appointment in 1920 of the first Director of Forestry, L. Macintosh Ellis. 11. The passing of the Forests Act, 1921-22, the actual application of the provisions of the Act to forest management, and the re-organisation and augmentation of the Forestry Department. 12. The passing of the Forests Amendment Act of 1926, which took the administration of the forests in Mining Districts from the Mining Wardens, and transferred it to the Minister of Forests. 13. The starting of large-scale afforestation by private companies in 1922. 14. The afforesting by the State Forest Service of 168,000 acres in the three years 1928-29, 1929-30, 1930-31. 15. The holding of the Empire Forestry Conference in New Zealand in 1928.
42594857|Baikiaea plurijuga is the principal commercial sleeper timber of South Africa. A brief account of its occurrence, silviculture and exploitation in Northern Rhodesia is given.
42593063|The properties and occurrence of brittle heart which has been observed in numerous Australian species and particularly in the eucalypts, have been outlined. When material from brittle heart was macerated broken fibres were always obtained ; on the other hand, when material from truewood was macerated, the fibres remained whole. Further experiments indicated that broken fibres were derived from minute compression failures in the wood, and it has therefore been assumed that brittle heart and minute compression failures are synonymous. Gross compression failures have been considered in relation to minute compression failures, and it has been shown that the former do occur in zones outside the brittle heart. It has been suggested that gross and minute compression failures may be due to different causes. The need for more information on the occurrence of both gross and minute compression failures has been stressed, and such additional information is necessary before the causes of these failures can be determined.
42594798|1. The development of theories of thinning is discussed with the interpolation of much irrelevant and irreverent matter. 2. Courageous thinning in accordance with the apparent needs of particular areas is advocated. 3. A Natural Law"An area of woodland which has been thinned has, ipso facto, been overthinned until the branches and foliage of the remaining trees have had time to adjust themselves to the altered conditions caused by that thinning". 4. The practical application of this law is discussed. It is stated that this is that thinnings should be so timed that no senior inspecting officer will see the thinned areas for a considerable time after thinnings have taken place.
42595816|The events of the most outstanding importance referred to in the foregoing sketch are : 1. The first realisation by politicians of the importance of forestry by the passing of a rudimentary Forest Act in 1874 ; and the appointment in 1876 of a Conservator of Forests. 2. The passing of the rather more comprehensive Forests Act of 1885, and in 1886 the gazetting of consequential regulations providing for a certain amount of forest management. 3. The realisation of the value of the afforesting of poor lands, and the starting of State afforestation under a special officer in 1896. 4. The adoption in about 1903 of much improved methods for the appraisal of Kauri. This occurred because of the greatly increased value of this timber and its fast lessening supplies. 5. The extension in about 1909 of the more efficient methods to the appraisal of the podocarpforests of the centre of the North Island. 6. The appointment of the Royal Commission on Forestry in 1913, which recommended, inter alia, the more efficient administration of the indigenous forests, the appointment of a Director of Forestry, a larger afforestation programme, and the conservation of forests at the sources of rivers. 7. The arrival in New Zealand in 1915 of the late Sir D. E. Hutchins, who, devoting his whole time to forestry propaganda, converted the press, the public, and the Government to a realisation of the importance of forests and having them managed by trained foresters, and founded the New Zealand Forestry League. 8. The establishment of the Forestry Department in 1919. 9. The enactment, through the initiation and agency of Sir F. H. D. Bell, of legislation authorising the making of "provisional "State forests. 10. The appointment in 1920 of the first Director of Forestry, L. Macintosh Ellis. 11. The passing of the Forests Act, 1921-22, the actual application of the provisions of the Act to forest management, and the re-organisation and augmentation of the Forestry Department. 12. The passing of the Forests Amendment Act of 1926, which took the administration of the forests in Mining Districts from the Mining Wardens, and transferred it to the Minister of Forests. 13. The starting of large-scale afforestation by private companies in 1922. 14. The afforesting by the State Forest Service of 168,000 acres in the three years 1928-29, 1929-30, 1930-31. 15. The holding of the Empire Forestry Conference in New Zealand in 1928.
42594857|Baikiaea plurijuga is the principal commercial sleeper timber of South Africa. A brief account of its occurrence, silviculture and exploitation in Northern Rhodesia is given.
42593063|The properties and occurrence of brittle heart which has been observed in numerous Australian species and particularly in the eucalypts, have been outlined. When material from brittle heart was macerated broken fibres were always obtained ; on the other hand, when material from truewood was macerated, the fibres remained whole. Further experiments indicated that broken fibres were derived from minute compression failures in the wood, and it has therefore been assumed that brittle heart and minute compression failures are synonymous. Gross compression failures have been considered in relation to minute compression failures, and it has been shown that the former do occur in zones outside the brittle heart. It has been suggested that gross and minute compression failures may be due to different causes. The need for more information on the occurrence of both gross and minute compression failures has been stressed, and such additional information is necessary before the causes of these failures can be determined.
