42600466|Part II of Mr. Hutchinson's article starts with a description of scaling, continues with a very full account of road-making under location and construction, and then goes on to describe methods of logging under yarding, loading with machines described, landings, and finally booming and rafting. There is a bibliography of eight items and a full and interesting glossary of the many local terms used in B.C. logging.
42602575|The author, from a wealth of practical experience, starts his article with reasons why there are 215 references to termites in Forestry Abstracts up to 1954, and why they are of increasing importance both in buildings and plantations. Describing first their biology he lists the four main groups and then subdivides the last and most numerous into two, the fungus-growers and the humus-feeders. Next he deals with pests of growing trees in Australia, Tropical America, Asia and Africa and with the aphorism that termites never attack healthy trees and its corollary that any tree attacked by termites is therefore unhealthy (almost true it seems in Africa). "Maltreatment, under the guise of pruning of trees in avenues, public gardens, and similar situations often leads to termite attack ... The danger can be avoided without much difficulty but the protection of trees once the termites are established is generally laborious, and unlikely to be undertaken". There follow interesting sections on termites as ecological factors, a very considerable study in itself, on natural resistance "There does not seem to be such a thing as ultimate termite resistance" and on timber impregnation "Soft timbers which are impregnated with little difficulty may, in the long run, prove more durable than many of the harder, naturally resistant timbers at present in demand". There is a copious and comprehensive bibliography which should, with the article, be invaluable to foresters.
42602465|The author attempts to show that by means of graphical analysis of field enumeration details of girth measurement, "emergence" as a physical character may be related to girth distribution, especially when related to the girth distribution of all species in one locality or forest.
42602315|The assumption that within each forest type the volume of Ocotea rodiaei (Greenheart) per acre is constant, has been proved to be correct by correlating timber volume, measured in the field, with the areas of the Greenheart bearing forest types, measured on a photo-interpretation map. The regression equation thus produced can be applied to Greenheart bearing forest types from a photo-interpretation map of another area to estimate the Greenheart volume in that area without carrying out a field survey.
42600245|The article describes Forest Management Licences in British Columbia with progress in allotment to the present day and criticisms of Licences. The author expresses his views on some of these criticisms. As a concrete example of a Forest Management Licence, the article goes on to deal with progress of Management on one such licence located in the Okanagan Valley.
42600504|The paper deals with the difficulty, against competition with agriculture, in acquiring new areas for forestry. The author goes on to consider soils and sites available for exotic forestry. In some sites all factors are favourable and there any number of species can be grown but at the other end of the scale are soil types critical to the healthy growth of trees. Examples are given. Only in the last decade questions of unthriftiness and sickness have been investigated, e.g. by D.S.I.R. at Riverhead, 20 miles north of Auckland. Dr. Stoate visited this area and recognised disorders well known in Australia. Australian remediessuperphosphate, for examplewere applied with encouraging results; they are to be extended by topdressing methods. Zinc and ammonium sulphate have been added singly and in combination but with no lasting benefit yet observed (cf. W. Australia). Areas where conclusions as to the second crop can be drawn from the first now exist in New Zealand and pedologists are co-operating with the forester in an attempt to assess the productivity of the areas. Full scale soil surveys and maps follow. The work of Ward and Hocking in this field receives comment; it refers to a new scheme at Te Wara "in the back country of Taranaki" and breaks new ground for New Zealand. Sirex noctilio damage and its relation to climatology, studies on the nutrient status of foliage, on the chemical composition of litter all receive mention. Then the author discusses, shortly, the inter-relation of forests and soils, the management of nurseries to maintain soil fertility with possible later developments in the advisory service for farmers and planters. A tribute is paid to the work of the staff of the Soil Bureau of the D.S.I.R.
42600856|Numerous studies in many countries have been made of the effect on increment of various pruning degrees in even-aged pure coniferous stands. The pruning degree has been variously specified, in most cases without reference to stand density. The present paper seeks to show that this omission deprives the specifications of precise meaning. It suggests that a pruning degree should be defined by the ratio of crown depth left after pruning to the potential crown depth for the stand density existing at that date, and additionally at the dates of foreseeable changes in stand density. Suggestions are made as to how the potential crown depth for a given density may be calculated, based on the hypothesis that, on a given site, stand density is the predominating factor limiting green crown depth, and a method is suggested whereby an estimate may be made of the amount by which increment will be depressed by any degree of pruning contemplated, whether associated with thinning or not.
42601583|The approaches and forestry background of foreign foresters, in particular British, who undertake post-graduate work in American universities are described. The special characteristics of their educational background and professional environment are considered and compared with those of the local student, and suggestions are made as to how their objectives may be met. Possible fields of study are discussed. Mention is made of the difficulties of the overseas student when he encounters the complexities of the American university system. In an introduction certain aspects are elaborated for the benefit of the Commonwealth reader and certain advice given to the intending post-graduate student, especially in regard to his choice of institution.
42602210|The principal ecological types, discussed previously, are summarised below in catena sequence from hill-top to valley bottom. The abbreviations used on the photographs, for each sub-type, are shown in brackets; and the symbols used are general enough for the type-mapping of the photographs prior to ground reconnaissance. Each sub-type has a different saw-log value/potential.
42602383|An account is given of the use made of aerial photographs and aerial survey methods by foresters in Norway, Sweden and Finland. The increasing use of aerial photography for forestry purposes in these countries and the equipment and techniques used are mentioned, and their applicability to other forest areas is discussed.
42600613|This study describes the application of aerial photography to tropical rain forest in Ceylon over a wide altidunal range, 300 to 3,800 feet. The Sinharaja forest, 24,000 acres, selected for this study had not been previously examined except by earlier reconnaissances which had indicated the general distribution of the forest types. The application of aerial photograph to the mapping of vegetation types in the tropics is reviewed. From the initial phases of the preparation of topographic maps and the mapping of broad vegetational types mainly for land use purposes using small scale photography, the more recent application of aerial photography has been towards the delineation of vegetational types on ecological lines. The most recent development has been the preparation of stock maps and inventories based on the correlation of vegetational types with ground sampling and the use of statistical methods for determining the limits of accuracy. Such methods, employing a restricted form of random sampling, have been found applicable to semi-deciduous (teak-bearing) forest in Thailand using small scale photography (1:48,000). For intensive studies of tropical rain forest, in order to evaluate the ecological significance of sampling, large scale photography is found to be necessary. Scales of 1 : 10,000 to 1 : 15,000 have been found most suitable. The scale of photography used for the present study was 1 : 15,840. The recognition of distinctive photo-patterns was the basis of stratification. The ecological significance of the stratification was investigated by empirical methods of field sampling, largely based on the "selected line" method used in Canada. The final mapping was done after the results of the sampling had indicated the nature and significance of the strata. The stratification obtained by air-photography was found to have a close relationship to previously recognised ecological types, chiefly the Mesua-Doona-Shorea climax community and its softwooded faciation (Cullenia-Palaquium-Doona congestiflora). Both types have been recognised with single species dominants, designated the 3 ND type in which Mesua ferrea predominates and the 3 T type in which Doona congestiflora predominates. The tendency in these types is towards an extreme form of gregariousness. Between these two extremes, intermediate and mixed types have been recognised, designated the 3 U and 3 TS types. The former is a more mixed type with the hardwood Mesua, Doonas and Shoreas predominating and is the largest and most widely distributed type covering approximately 70 per cent out of the total area of 17,000 acres of virgin forest. The latter is also a mixed type, but with the softwooded elements (chiefly Doona congestiflora with Calophyllum, Cullenia, Palaquium and Myristica species predominating. The ecological relationships of the major types are discussed. The evidence of the spatial distribution of the chief species in relation to regeneration, especially of Doona congestiflora appears to give support to the possible occurrence of a cyclical or recurrent space-time pattern in the region. There is also a strong correlation between the presence of certain specialised types, the 3 MR and 3HR (ridge types), the 3 H (Dipterocarpus zeylanicus) and the 3 F (alluvial flats) types (the two latter types being only sparsely represented) and the peculiar geological features of the region. The 3 H and 3 F types are clearly associated with a senile stage in the drainage pattern. The intensity of sampling varied from 0.25 to 3.0 per cent for individual strata.The distribution of transects was mainly with the intention of getting as wide a dispersion of plots as possible. The results, however, give acceptable limits of error for each major stratum in the calculation of the total stock in terms of basal area (in lieu of volume) as well as in numbers of merchantable trees. In the larger types (3 U, 3ND), acceptable results have also been obtained for each category, viz. hardwood (two quality classes), softwood (two quality classes) and fuel, into which the species have been grouped in management practice. The application of these results to further work is discussed and the most suitable sampling procedures are indicated.
42601326|An export trade of Nigerian timbers has existed since the middle of the last century. Traditionally of mahoganies, the emphasis has shifted towards the export of general purpose timbers. The U.K. has always been the largest importer of Nigerian timber. There are many difficulties in marketing new tropical timber species, and the approach of marketing them as "substitute" timbers (e.g. mahogany, teak, greenheart, etc.) is deplored. It is concluded that, though the 1951 timber boom is over, there is still a future for Nigerian timbers, particularly as general purpose timbers; the timbers exported however, must be of high quality and in regular supply.
42601066|As envisaged in the Editorial in Empire Forestry Review 39 (3) 101 on pp. 261-264, this report amplifies the material there supplied by Mr. MacGregor's summary of first the Theoretical Determinants in Land Use Policy related to the 18 lectures given at Oxford in connection with this course. It then goes on to give, in some detail, an account of the problems in Land Use demonstrated in tours of England and Wales, Switzerland, Italy and France. In a future issue of the Empire Forestry Review it is hoped to give a selection from the papers submitted by some of those who participated in the course and in the tours which followed it.
42602685|The article starts with the basic facts on topography, climate, soils, area including forest area, distribution of population, demands on the forests with a short paragraph on shifting cultivation. Next the forest area is described in greater detail including notes on forest products, major and minor, and on the protective function of forests. Then forest organization is discussed under staff, management, erosion and torrent control and forest industries. Finally, the author deals with such questions as the forest inventory, the forest policy protective and productive and the control of private forests ending with suggestions regarding forest legislation.
42600652|An overseas hardwood buyer once wrote very frankly to me saying "we buyers, by custom, are always asking for perfection, but we seem to get along very well with something less than that". That attitude is very understandable but it is a relic of the days when the grading of timber was little understood, or not understood at all. In the absence of proper grading rules and trained Timber Graders the buyer was forced to protect himself by asking for perfection in the shape of defect-free timber, but as long as the timber he received was suitable for the purpose for which it was required, he was content. Today it is an archiac anachronism to specify defect-free timber for that can only result in quite unnecessarily costly timber to the consumer. This article endeavours to explain the reason for that statement; is also touches on the systems of grading, and gives some notes on various printed grading rules for sawn hardwood timber.
42602897|It will be apparent that the municipal forest organization in Ontario combines the established principle of the sustained yield with reforestation along sound silvicultural lines. It is essentially an attempt to regulate intensively the forestry undertakings of counties and conservation authorities with widely differing local conditions, and to reconcile those undertakings as intimately as possible with existing markets, requirements and labour supplies. Inherent in its format, also, is the belief that the plan may presently become the guide for a much more extensive programme administered directly by the province through the Department of Lands and Forests.
42601356|The place of Experimental Forests in North American forestry is considered and their special values and limitations discussed. Aims and objects are considered in regard to research, education and demonstration. Specific examples are cited and varying opinion presented. Brief mention is made to their use elsewhere.
42602431|This article is a brief account of the progress of sand dune reclamation in the North Island of New Zealand during the last two decades. An historical introduction is followed by a description of the technique developed for New Zealand conditions and this in turn by an analysis of the various sites encountered in the dunes. In conclusion the work done is summarized, costed and compared with the classical reclamation schemes of Gascony. Historically the most salient feature of the work is that it was initiated primarily to absorb unemployed labour and only secondarily to protect public works and private farming land. This fact, coupled with the strong demand for more and more pasture, has led to the reclamation and afforestation of the dunes being confined to a very narrow coastal strip which in Gascony would serve only as protection forest but which in New Zealand meets the demand for production also. The magnitude of the problem is clearly seen when it is realized that, despite this narrow zone of reclamation and eighteen years continuous work, only one third of the dunes which required reclaiming in 1930 have been at present brought under control.
42602822|Continuing his article (see Part I in Vol. 35, No. 1, pp. 42-55) the author goes on to describe White Pine Grading Rules from Eastern Canada and from them passes to those for Red (Norway) Pine issued by the same authority, the White Pine Bureau, and to the three sets of rules for Eastern Canadian Spruce. He quotes examples from the 88 page rule book of the Maritime Lumber Bureau, pointing out that in practice the export market has found that six grades and seven dimensions are too complicated, so it is common practice to sell the top three grades as No. 3 and better, the next two under the joint title of Fourth and Fifth, while the sixth grade is not usually exported. Next the bilingual grading rules for Eastern Canadian Spruce, Balsam Fir and Jack Pine of the North Eastern Lumber Manufacturers' Association of U.S.A., and the Canadian Lumbermen's Association of Canada are dealt with in some detail. Finally the group known as Southern Pine is described with a table of strength values for the four principal species followed by a description of the grades and structural grades. "Nowhere in the whole world of lumber production has the matter been gone into with more care or in greater detail. These elaborate sets of grading rules are used by both the U.S.A. and Canadian lumber producing concerns . . . covering lumber, plywood and pulp, to competitively market their carefully manufactured and graded products throughout the world."
42600348|The author, Utilisation Officer of the Forest Department of Tanganyika, continues his account of the activities of the Utilisation Division which, as to Part I, appeared in E.F.R., 36, 1, pp. 67-79. Starting with staff he enumerates what he considers to be the minimum requirements referring them to local salary scales. He then deals with buildings and equipment for all aspects of the work. Hughes offers to give advice to other departments setting up a Utilisation Division from his own experience. This is a valuable offer which should not be overlooked. The vexed question of costs follows before he goes on to deal, in some detail, with the Research Programme ending with what he considers to be the priorities, the improvement of local standards in logging and hauling, better methods of handling, seasoning, preserving and timber working, and finally the utilisation of secondary timbers with suggestions for the order of tackling these (11 species are named). This part ends with a short paragraph headed Conclusion, in which he is perhaps over modest in his claims regarding "smaller tropical forest departments". Tanganyika is hardly that. Strongest emphasis is placed on continuity with staff problems naturally bulking large. The plates in Part II, except for that illustrating graveyard tests, all deal with logging and transport.
42602269|The changing pattern of Forest Research in Britain is considered against a background of unmanaged forest, destroyed natural forest and the attempts of enlightened landowners to improve matters. War, high taxation and the break-up of large estates led to the formation of the Forestry Commission. Their first research tasks concerned land types, nursery techniques, pathology and entomology, and yield tables. The tempo accelerated after the Second World War and measures to encourage better private forestry were devised. The main problems of forest establishment on heath and peat land having been solved, research has turned to problem areas, to grassy heaths, to dwarf gorse types and to smoke-polluted areas. Current problems in pathology and entomology, in nurseries questions of plant nutrition and the maintenance of fertility, investigations into the use of selective weedkillers and into manurial regimes all receive notice. Longer-term measures are replacing short-term with emphasis on continuing fertility in the forest, the carrying forward of sample plots from one rotation to another, mixture experiments, thinning regimes, quality in timber, the importance of genetics, seed orchards and hybridisation. Fundamental research now rightly concerns intself, inter alia, with the whole biological complex in which trees grow. Management and economics, the business aspects of forestry, perhaps unfortunately to some, are assuming increasing importance in our forests.
42599638|The development of the North German Timber Control from the beginning of the Military Government of the British Zone of Germany is traced and the restrictions of the geographical Military Government system as it affected the timber producing industry are criticized. The N.G.T.C. has become a very autonomous body, largely outside the Military Government organization but maintains a close and friendly liaison with all correlated Military Government functions. The several distinct operations of the N.G.T.C. as typified by the organization of Regierungs Bezirk, Lneburg, are described both in relation to the development from post-war chaos of the German forest service and trade and to the direct British-controlled production by displaced persons and ex-German prisoners (Dienstgruppen). "Operation Woodpecker" or timber production by B.A.O.R. is described. The German forest service has deteriorated sadly under the Hitler regime and during the post-war occupation period. The importance of ensuring its healthy resuscitation under wise control on a long-term policy is a serious responsibility but one which can be of great training value, both for the German Forstmeisters and apprentices, and for our British and Empire foresters. We can get more than timber only out of the German forests. We can train good German citizens and gain valuable experience in doing so.
42601578|As the supply of naturally resistant woods both for poles and cross-arm timbers decreased, use had to be made of less durable timbers and preservatives. Eucalypts are the species used as poles and they vary considerably in quality. Generally a penetration of 10-15 lbs. per sq. in. when applying creosote is sufficient. During seasoning there is little danger of decay, but there is danger of splitting and insect attack. The causes of failure, the introduction of treated poles and the creosoting system are described. Specifications cover quality and treatment of poles and deal with species, defects, shape, dimensions, seasoning, extent of borer attack, prefabrication, preservatives, penetration and cleanliness. Creosote treatment and retentions which are measured in lbs. per cubic foot of softwood are described and the inspection procedure which lays down three inspections. Regarding cross-arm treatments the causes of failure, the development of high pressure treatment using pressures in the order of 1,000 lbs. per square inch are described, also the commercial experience.
42600653|The use of electronic digital computers has made it possible to complete multiple regression analyses in a few minutes, and to extend the methods to numbers of variables hitherto regarded as being beyond the scope of even the most practised research workers. This paper describes a multiple regression programme written for the Ferranti Pegasus Computer, and used extensively by the Forestry Commission.
42600615|Six species of termites damaging trees and timber in British Honduras are recorded. Attack by the cucayo, Coptotermes niger, on standing pine and mahogany is described.
42600318|Dr. Griffith describes his experiences last autumn in an I.U.F.R.O. Tour of North Scotland, led by Mr. McNeill, of Aberdeen, assisted by Mr. Faulkner, of the Forestry Commission. Visits were made to Durris House, to see introduced conifers, to Glentanar estate, where morphological varieties of Pinus sylvestris were studied, to Clashindarroch, where he compares problems of introductions there with those in India and East Africa. The problems are essentially the same although their solutions may be quite different. He goes on to comment on the mechanised F.C. Nursery at Newtyle (with little application as yet to East African conditions), then on heathland experiments at Teindland and Speymouth, and on reclamation work on pure sand at Culbin. The experiments on pure peat at Lon Mor impressed everyone greatly, and he salutes the pioneers of 30 years ago. But the Anderson Groups evoked controversy; it was thought that those seen might have justified greater expenditure to produce a full regular crop. He commends the arrangements made, the work shown and, above all, the wonderful spell of weather.
42602823|Part of the 1954 silvicultural programme was to begin the regeneration of worked-out greenheart forest as recommended by the World Bank Development Mission to British Guiana in 1953. It was decided to carry out a pilot project covering approximately a square mile of exploited forest applying the results of all past silvicultural research on this problem. The area selected for the project was Block I of Willems Timber and Trading Company's lease in the Bartica Triangle. During the period 26th March-14th May, 1954, a party consisting of the D.F.O. (Silviculture), 4 members of the Silvicultural Staff and 20 Amerindians carried out greenheart regeneration work covering the whole of Block I. There follows a report of this work. This is preceded by a general note on greenheart regeneration summarising past work and an outline of the present problem in the Bartica Triangle.
42601354|Apart from their regular use in forest nurseries and on certain nutrient-deficient sites at the time of planting or to rejuvenate plantations that have checked, fertilisers are at present very little used in forestry, mainly because of lack of knowledge of the magnitude and persistence of responses that may be expected under given conditions. The literature records many instances of responses to different fertilisers, applied mainly at the time of planting, phosphate being the most frequently effective nutrient, though in certain circumstances N, K and Ca have also produced worthwhile responses. Classical work on liming in older conifer forests in Germany is mentioned, and recent work on nitrogen is discussed, with particular reference to the need for discovering a slow-acting form which will produce lasting effects. Much research is needed to determine conditions for economic growth responses to fertiliser applications, and it is stressed that the physical and biological factors affecting tree nutrition must be studied in addition to the purely chemical factors.
42602062|Describes the various extraction methods employed in the Third Division of Sarawak, the largest division in area and the most important timber producer in the colony. Tonnage figures refer to a ton of 50 cubic feet.
42600853|Variation of the moisture content of veneers was studied. Green, freshly peeled veneer was sampled according to plan and its moisture content determined; the effects due to species, individual logs, and positions within a log caused differences of statistical significance in the wetness of peeled veneer. By far the greatest part of the variation occurred among logs; individual logs within all species exhibited the greatest variation in levels of initial wetness by ranging between 83 and 124 per cent average moisture content. The species and position-withinlogs effects were far less variable, though significant. The species effect varied from 98 to 104 per cent while position differences were from 98 to 107 per cent in moisture content. It was possible to explain the range of 2 to 15 per cent moisture content observed in veneer dried in a local continuous dryer in terms of these differences.
42602000|The preparation of a merchantable volume table for Tarrietia utilis Sprague, Sterculiaceae, is described in detail. From 330 trees felled in the Kambui Reserve, Kenema Division, Sierra Leone, over-bark girths above buttress, over-bark mid-girths of logs, and total log length, were obtained. These data were arranged in 1 foot girth classes and 10 feet height classes, and the class means graphed in a series of harmonized curves. A tabular statement was prepared from the final graph, and when checked against the first hundred sample trees gave an aggregate volume which was 1.4 per cent less than the true total.
42601729|Analysis of the conversion figures obtained from a study of sixty peeler logs of various indigenous New Zealand species has given the following results: (1) There are certain unavoidable losses in plywood and veneer manufacture. This has been found to be equal to one-third of the original volume of the peeler log and moreover is consistent with the figure calculated from theoretical considerations. (2) Avoidable losses account for another third of the volume of the timber. This loss is probably characteristic for the type of peeler log species being converted into rotary veneer in New Zealand. (3) Only one-third of the volume of the green log timber finds its way into finished plywood sheets.
42601680|The author records his observations on a seven-day visit (which he rightly thinks could profitably have been extended to seven weeks) to two of seven stations of the Forestry Division of INEAC, those of Yangambi in the interior and Luki near the coast of the Belgian Congo. The former station covers six square miles of forests for intensive work and 800 square miles set aside for more extensive studies. He concentrates mainly on the latter, a purely forestry station at 1600' altitude covering 120 square miles and describes the work under six headsForest Botany, Ecology, Planting Regeneration, Natural Regeneration, the Luki system, conversion of poor and weed-infested forests to a productive community, and finally Utilisation. The plates illustrate the main points in each section. Most of the work is familiar but the Luki system, Uniformisation par le haut, has a new look which the author calls a weeding operation on the grand scale. Other interesting notes are on Banana-taungya and the use of Anderson methods (Placeaux Anderson) in the forests. Utilisation research is centered on Belgium: nine species are mentioned all familiar though perhaps Irvingia will be a surprise selection to West Africans. The nine listed are some only of many sent to Belgium for testing. There is a valuable bibliography. The authorities in the Belgian Congo are to be congratulated on the amount of money they seem to be able to devote to this and other research projects.
42601543|The long established principle in Europe of managing forests for a varied pattern of community use has now found strong expression by both Government and private foresters in Northern America. Management of forest lands for their Multiple Use was the principal theme of the Fifth World Forestry Congress held in the U.S.A. in 1960. Such management must concern itself with the yield of Wood Products, the care of Water, Wild Life and Grazing Resources, and the provision of ample facilities for Recreation. A comparison is drawn between the American and Australian scenes in discussing the application of Multiple Use management of forest lands in the two countries.
42600112|Three aspects of the relationship between afforestation in Britain and the community are dealt with; the extent to which the community generally appreciates what is meant by forestry and is aware of the afforestation already effected and proposed for the future; the enjoyment of Britain's forests by the people; forest labour and the development of forest villages.
42602384|The article sets out to show how important is the timing of the road construction to the cost of extraction. The value of roads to fire protection and general administration is estimated and accounted for. For an assumed set of conditions, it is shown that a graph can be produced which allows conclusions to be drawn regarding the correct timing of the road works relative to the age of the plantation.
42602160|This article is the substance of an address given to the Oxford University Forestry Society on 8th November, 1950. It briefly covers developments over the past thirty years, with special reference to fire weather research, equipment and tree look-outs.
42601584|The taxonomy of Pinus khasya Royle and Pinus insularis Endl. has been studied by examination of their external morphology, internal anatomy and wood structure, and of the composition of their leaf turpentines. No consistent differences were found in the morphology or anatomy; in the case of the composition of the turpentines there was some evidence of the presence in P. khasya of -phellandrene and its absence in P. insularis, but in view of the conflict of this result with previous findings and the probably minor significance of this difference, it is not considered justifiable to retain the separation into two distinct species. It is recommended that the name P. khasya be adopted, and that P. insularis be considered merely a synonym.
42601358|This is a short account of the excursion to Belgium of the Society of Foresters of Great Britain from 22nd to 28th May. The policy in the Ardennes is to improve the productivity of broadleaf areas involving the conversion of coppice as seen on the first two days in the Bouillon-Florenville districts and stabilising of existing conifer areas as seen in the Vielsalm district. Conversion and transformation involve the use of both broadleaf and conifer species in intimate groups. Peat planting at Hertogenwald was inspected as were a communal forest at La Yernee, and the private forest of M. Boel, President of the Royal Belgian Forestry Society at Court Saint-Etienne. The excursion ended with a visit to the magnificent beech forest of Soignes and a short look at the Research Institute at Groenendaal.
42602466|An attempt is made to summarise the conditions facing foresters in Palestine when the British Mandate begun and to trace the achievements of the last quarter century, beginning with the period when F. J. Tear, B.A.(Oxon), Dip. For.(Oxon) was Chief Forest Officer and Deputy Director of Agriculture and Forestry, through the conservancy of G. N. Sale, B.Sc.(For.) (Edin.), the first head of the separate Forest Department, and ending with current events under the acting conservancy of A. Y. Goor, M.B.E., M.Sc, Ph.D., Dip.For.(Oxon). These divisions are merely conveniences, of course, and no attempt has been made to observe them rigidly. Then follows a summary of results achieved and the developments planned when the Mandate terminated.
42601544|The symptoms of a dieback disease affecting many species of pines, eucalypts and other broadleaved trees in Northern Rhodesia are described, and compared with those of similar diseases, particularly in Central and East Africa. The results are given of experimental work, which showed that dieback in eucalypts is caused by a boron deficiency. Rates, times and the relative merits of ground and foliar applications of boron to prevent dieback of eucalypts are discussed, with experimental data. The relation of some soil and climatic factors to the incidence of dieback is discussed, and the widespread nature of boron deficiency in the dry tropics noted.
42602690|The nature of Eucalypt seed and the high level of impurities which usually has to be accepted can lead to great practical difficulties in seed testing. A method is described which gives a measure of the germination capacity of the uncleaned seed, and the results obtained from a series of tests made on seed of 43 species of Eucalypt are briefly discussed. The value of seed pre-chilling is considered.
42602898|The development of symptoms typical of fused needle disease is recorded in Pinus palustris under circumstances that point strongly to a transitory shortage of water as the responsible cause.
42600321|A method is being evolved for determining when to plant softwoods in a climate where the rainfall is very variable in amount and season. The preliminary indications of the first four years work are given. Criteria for safe planting are a minimum depth of soil wetting and a minimum rainfall build-up (as opposed to total rainfall) after a given date. Planting later in the rains than this optimum date results in serious loss of height growth and survival percentage as measured at the end of the first year. This adversely affects the conditions of the crop and the cost of raising it.
42602546|Some volume measurement systems are considered as examples of formulae designed to avoid the unlimited decimal places of  and to allow tables to be constructed simply. The equivalent sectional areas are shown as squares in a diagram and compared with the circular sectional area of an equal true solid volume. Conversion factors have been recalculated from first principles to correct errors in some of the published tables.
42600577|It is shown that in the species of eucalypt examined, gum zones may form in the bark, but not then in the woodas in E. gomphcephala, E. hemiphloia and E. occidentalis; or in the wood, but not then in the barkas in E. camaldulensis and E. maculata. It is suggested that this is a systematic distinction typical for the groups of eucalypts representedthe Boxes and the Gums. It is demonstrated that gum zone formation follows after collapse of tissue in the meristematic zone. This is held to be caused by water supply deficiency. The movement of the zone of collapse, developed as a gum zone, into the phloem, or into the xylem, is determined by the position in which meristematic activity is resumed; i.e. on the inner side of the tissue affected by collapse in the Boxes and on the outer side in the Gums. The tissues which surround the pipes of collapse remain parenchymatous. Comparison is made with similar phenomena which occur in conifers and which seem principally to be related to water deficiency. A short reference is made to the longhorn borer, Phoracantha semipunctata, in connection with gum zone formation in E. gomphocephala.
42602430|The article deals with the north-western district of British Guiana. After describing the forests and the terrain, the author states that the region is capable of development on a competitive basis with other timber regions of the world. All species must be logged, and appropriate logging methods are recommended. The author states as his strong opinion that the only way in which logging can be done at competitive costs is by the use of North American machinery, and key-men who are imported from North America, both of which will cost dollars. These key-men will train local labour. A method of selective logging which should give low costs and produce good species for succeeding cuts is set out. Timber possibilities for the colony are estimated, although admittedly knowledge is as yet small.
42602272|Shorea albida in Sarawak forms three types of forest association, described as the alan, padang and bunga forest types. It has been reported as producing two distinct types of commercial timber, a light-weight wood known as meranti bunga and a heavy wood, alan. It has been confirmed that the timber of this species exhibits a considerable range in nominal specific gravity, from 0.28 to 0.80, corresponding approximately to a range in density of 20-57 lb. per cu. ft. in the seasoned condition. Timber from each of the three forest types exhibits a similar range in specific gravity but the relative proportions of light and heavy wood are different. The wide range in specific gravity is due to variation within the tree. The first-formed wood is moderately light but with increase in size, there is an increase in specific gravity until a heavy wood of fairly uniform density is laid down. This pattern of specific gravity change across the stem was found in trees from each of the forest types. For convenience the central core of light to medium-weight wood is called the juvenile wood and the outer cylinder of dense wood the adult wood. Padang and bunga trees produce a somewhat larger core of juvenile wood than do trees from the alan forest. It is from padang and bunga trees that meranti bunga timber is obtained. Alan trees are mostly hollow, the core of light to medium-weight wood being lost. The outer cylinder of dense, adult wood is the source of commercial alan timber. Both alan and meranti bunga are produced by the same species but at different periods of growth. The size of the core of juvenile wood appears to be related to the size of crown developed by the tree during this period of growth. The density of the timber laid down is independent of size of tree, and appears to be independent of growth rate. There is possibly a correlation with age, and it may be dependent on some factor related to age. The larger size of the core of juvenile wood in padang and bunga forest trees than in alan forest trees is believed to be due to more vigorous juvenile growth in the former types of forests. A tentative explanation for this is given in terms of the structure of these forests and the method of regeneration. Shorea albida trees are very liable to wind damage. This may cause stem-break, which is often followed by coppice growth from the old stump, or loss of or damage to the crown followed by the establishment of a new crown. The tree exhibits a remarkable ability to continue growth following such damage. The central core of light-weight wood is very prone to brittleheart. In the padang trees, on the average, about one-quarter of the heartwood timber is affected.
42600651|Large-and medium-size seed of many species can be easily pre-germinated by mixing with moistened vermiculite and storing in polythene bags. As soon as germination commences in the bags, all the seed can be separated out from the vermiculite by sieving and sown into seed beds or boxes in the ordinary way; seeds thus sown emerge rapidly as seedlings. Alternatively, only those seeds which actually possess a small radicle are selected during the sieving process. These are "sown out" singly at transplant espacements into transplant boxes or beds, thus eliminating the use of seed beds completely. The remaining seed are returned to the bags to continue germination, and at short intervals, are again sieved and selected for sowing out. The advantages and disadvantages of using this technique in preference to conventional sowings and transplanting methods are discussed.
42601580|This paper was written by an officer of the British Forestry Commission after a tour of South African forests. It discusses the development of South African forestry since 1939 when the South African Forest Department adopted Craib's proposals for wide planting distances, fairly heavy thinning and pruning to a height of 22 ft. Craib's proposals were logical in the light of the available information and the economic circumstances of 1939. Since that date however the economic situation in South Africa has changed and it has become apparent that the criteria of timber quality which Craib took into accountnamely, density, size of tree and freedom from knots in the lower 22 ft. of the stemare not the only ones which must be considered when framing a silvicultural policy. In particular, spiral grain, compression wood and knottiness above 22 ft. are causing serious degrade in South African timber, and work is now going on in the fields of silviculture, genetics, sawmilling and management with the object of improving timber quality.
42600655|This is an account of China's First Five-Year Plan for Forestry. It gives statistics as to the extent and range of existing forests. Tropical to Arctic, covering 7.9 per cent of the total land area. Hiere is an historical note explaining the paucity of forests, a consequence in the past of man's unconcern for the future. The first five-year plan claims 11.29 m. has. of afforestation with about 88 per cent success. Protection measures are also receiving attention with extensive road work, 5,700 kilometres in 1953-57, and 7,000 kilometres of telephone wires installed. Regeneration measures have been applied to 5.9 m. has. in the period 1952-57. A note on some of the species used for timber and protection forests is included. Much educational and propaganda work has been done and more is contemplated.
42602214|The Northern Scotland 1959 meeting of the Society of Foresters of Great Britain is described. Using extensively the Tour Notes supplied visits to Glen Affric and Guisachan, to Strathspey, to the Black Isle and to Lethen and Cawdor are described. The annual meeting receives comment and synopses of papers at the Technical Discussion session are included.
42599652|A canker disease of Cupressus macrocarpa in Kenya, caused by Monochaetia unicornis (Cooke and Ellis) Sacc, is compared with a disease on the same host in California caused by Coryneum cardinale Wagener and the similarity of the two diseases noted. The disease in Kenya appears to be confined to the highlands east of the Rift Valley.
42602027|Short focus spectacles may be used as a stereoscope for examining aerial photograps; besides being cheap they have certain advantages over simple conventional stereoscopes, especially for field work. The construction of a cheap and simple pantograph is described; wax pencils and cellulose adhesive tape are useful accessories.
42600317|An account is given here of the development of the Utilisation Division of the Forest Department, Tanganyika Territory. The Forest Department is a small one, having only sixty-three officers with professional and technical qualifications. Of these, six are in the Utilisation Division, the maximum number we can afford to allocate to specialist duties of this sort. It would be comparatively easy with this number of officers to carry out the duties normally required of a Utilisation Division in a small department, that is, liaison with the timber trade and timber users and general advisory work on timber utilisation. This Division, however, plans to carry out research on timber utilisation, to demonstate equipment and technique, and to give some direct assistance to the trade in the installation and operation of equipment. To do this with only six senior officers is somewhat of a problem. It is thought that our plan for the organisation and working of this Division, together with an account of its development, may be of interest to Forestry Departments in other territories that have pressing utilisation problems and limited resources to deal with them.
42602795|The background and the extent of the problem are first stated by G. B. Ryle. Details are then given by J. B. Stocks, as Rapporteur, of the application with special reference to shelterwood restocking. Some figures regarding costs are given and a summary of the silvicultural advantages end this section. Rapporteurs from the U.K., France and Germany give a general summary. E. G. Richards gives some information on the marketing problems to be solved.
42599868|The B.C. forest service network started from very small beginnings in the 1920's: in 1937 the first modern equipment was purchased: in 1941 they were still experimenting and it was not until 1946 when surplus war equipment came on the market that considerable expansion was possible. The effective range of units, the problem of patrolling an extensive coastline, instruments designed for different purposes, portable sets, installations for Ranger stations with power available and for Forest District Control stations are all discussed. The organization which is complex is then dealt with and radio in forest protection is described with weaknesses due to three factors, the human factor, the time factor and multiple frequencies. To avoid these the author has suggestions to make regarding greater elasticity, the use of V.H.F. sets, types of aerials, mobile units in cars and how best to concentrate sets for a large fire. The article is about British Columbia but the author hopes that, with suitable modifications, it may be of use to other regions.
42601383|The significance of damage by insects to forest crops and products is becoming increasingly recognised by foresters and timber users throughout the world. In a short account of some of the major problems arising out of infestation of timber by insects, stress is laid on the need for accurate biological knowledge of the insects in the development of sound and lasting methods of prevention and control. In this connection the work of the recently formed West African Timber Borer Research Unit on ambrosia (pinhole borer) beetles and investigations past and present, at Princes Risborough and elsewhere on powderpost beetles, the house longhorn beetle and furniture beetles are included as examples. Attention is drawn to the importance of close co-operation between the wood preserving expert and the biologist, and an appeal is made to teaching entomologists to bring before forestry students in training the practical aspects of forest entomology, emphasizing the contribution it can make towards sound forestry practice and efficient utilization of timber.
42601490|Forest clearance for food farms and cocoa plantations may provide abundant breeding material for beetles that attack dead and dying trees. A new food farm in the moist semi-deciduous High-Forest of Ghana contained 93 species of bark and woodinhabiting Coleptera, of which 51 can attack some of the tree species at present being exploited. Insecticidal treatment of logs may be necessary when farming is taking place in the vicinity of log dumps or sawmills; for this purpose gamma benzene hexachloride is recommended.
42602760|This note deals with the study of some girth increment figures derived over a ten-year period from a tree increment plot in Baikiaea plurijuga "forest" in Northern Rhodesia. The method proposed by A. Foggie in his article in Vol. 24, No. 2 of the Empire Forestry Journal was used in interpreting these records, and comments and suggestions are made on the use of that method. Although the available data were extremely limited, it is tentatively concluded that B. plurijuga may be expected to attain 45 inches girth in 100 years on good quality sites.
42599644|A stock survey is made of the felling coupe, and a stock map drawn. The yield is selected from the stock map, with particular attention being made to distribution. The selected trees are then hammer-marked for felling.
42602025|The article provides an account of the application of the principles of scientific forestry over a period of seventy-five years to a forest consisting mainly of teak (Tectona grandis) in the Central Provinces (Madhya Pradesh) of the Indian Union. The first part describes the forest types and the influence of management over seventy-five years on the composition, particularly with reference to fire protection. The first description of the forest was written by Sir Dietrich Brandis in 1876-77. The second part gives some statistics of the growing stock and how the standing volume, increment, and time taken to reach the exploitable diameter have changed. This is illustrated by figures taken from the three successive working plans of Sir Peter Clutterbuck (1894-96), J. A. H. R. Gentle (1930) and Messrs. McDonald and Majumdar (1946).
42600508|The author first describes the scope of the investigations and names the marine borers found in African waters with particular reference to Mombasa, shipworms, gribbles and Teredos, Their preferences in the way of timbers receive mention, Limnoria's for softwoods, the Teredo's for hardwoods. Resistance of local timber species to marine borers is then listed; resistant to very resistant are members of the genera Afzelia, Chlorophora, a Terminalia, Brachylaena and Manilkara; moderately resistant are an Olea, a Mimusops and E. A. Cedar; non-resistant to Teredo and Pholads were E. A. Camphorwood, a Cynometra, a Funtumia, Eucalyptus saligna, Podocarps, a Vitex and Insignis pine. There is a further category, readily attacked, of nine species, mostly local. Other information was derived at Kilindini from fenders and other marine works where two imported woods, greenheart and ekki (azobe) were found to be resistant, whereas three local species, a Parinarium, a Trachylobium and Cassipourea were less resistant. The effect of various preservative treatments is then dealt with. Pentachlorophenol provided no protection, cieosote useful against Teredo and Pholads but not against the Gribble. Dieldrex shows promise, Rentokil  gave no protection but various copper salts provide protection, Celcure for example. Impregnated Douglas fir using creosote was destroyed by both Teredo and Limnoria. Summarising the author considers that it is uneconomic to import expensive timbers such as greenheart and azobe when local hardwood timbers Mvule and Manilkara for example treated give equal service. Treated Podo was found to be as good as treated imported Douglas and much cheaper.
42601488|An informal outline of some of Guatemala's forests, landscape, and people during a short private tour by a forester at large.
42602826|The author on a recent visit to West Africa was able to throw some light on complaints as to the infestation of wawa logs apparently otherwise in perfectly sound condition, due, he considers, to a Platypodid beetle (Symmerus tuberculatus chap.) It is widely distributed and reported from the Gold Coast, Nigeria, Togo, Uganda, Kenya and Northern Rhodesia. He lists other species, seven in number, all well known and mostly timber species, which it also attacks though not necessarily outside the Gold Coast. The galleries are described as "lined with a thick deposit of fungus (ambrosia)" and damage is confined to the heartwood. Platypodid damage is usually to freshly felled or damaged trees but has been known to occur in healthy standing trees although this is the only reported instance of attack when the trees are comparatively young. It is too early to suggest control measures but it may be that "investigation of the exact requirements of Triplochiton might prove more rewarding than attempts to combat the insect itself." Damage may be negligible and no living beetles or grubs have been found in the timber after conversion nor is reinfestation possible because the fungus on which it depends could not grow without moisture.
42600944|In a detailed study of radial variation in durability in teak (Tectona grandis) and its relationship to growth factors regarded as having a probable influence on durability, 16 trees, ranging from 14 to 180 years old, were selected and from 1 to 13 heartwood zones from each tree (83 heartwood zones in all) were tested for resistance to decay by Coniophora olivacea (Fr. ex Pers.) Karst, and by Coriolus versicolor (Fr.) Quel, by sawdust decay technique. In addition, blocks from 40 of these zones were tested against these fungi and against DFP6413, an unidentified fungus isolated from brown rot in teak, as well as against the subterranean termite Coptotermes lacteus (Frogg.). In general, the relative order of susceptibility of the zones tested was the same for all three fungi and for Coptotermes, although the general level of susceptibility was much lower for C. olivcea than for the other three organisms. The association between amount of attack produced in each type of bio-assay and the values of five different growth factors was examined by means of correlation analyses. The best overall correlation was that with the distance of the zone sampled from the pith (DP), closely followed by that with the age of the tree at the time the zone was being formed (AZ). Appreciably smaller correlations were obtained with the diametral growth rate during zone formation (GR), the age of the tree when felled (AF), and time elapsed since formation of the zone from sap wood to heartwood (TH).
42602798|The author quotes work by Brimblecombe in Queensland and then cites Mackay in Nigeria. He then describes starch assessments on thirty standing trees at Ofram in Ghana. Using the Phillips method for assessment, he applies them to Tryplochiton. Tables are given of monthly starch readings. The discussion concludes that if this species was felled at the end of the dry season, which is seldom practicable, it might be immune to attack by powder-post beetles, that air seasoning is not a satisfactory means of starch depletion, but that immediate kiln seasoning might be. There is a bibliography of nine items.
42600439|The evolution of management planning and of regulation of the cut in the United States and Canada has been assessed for the period from the turn of the century to the first part of the present decade. Approaches that have been developed and problems common to the United States and Canada are reviewed briefly. Moves toward formalisation and improvement of management planning and forces causing these changes are discussed. The paramount importance of "volume" methods of regulation is quite evident in North American planning. At the same time there is much evidence of interest in experimentation, in modification of established methods, and in development of new systems for regulating the cut. In the concluding discussion the need for flexibility in planning is recognised. At the same time it is suggested that the possibility of change should not be used as an excuse for no planning. Considering the high costs of securing his data, the management planner should be expected to use his information well, to plan carefully, and to plan wisely.
42602821|Part I in the March issue dealt with the basic facts on topography, climate, soils, area including forest area, distribution of population, demands on the forests with a short paragraph on shifting cultivation. Next the forest area was described in greater detail including notes on forest products, major and minor, and on the protective function of forests. Then the forest organisation was discussed under policy, staff, management, erosion and torrent control, past management and forest industries. Part II gives suggestions for the future and deals with such questions as forest problems, the forest policy, forest legislation, forest organisation and management, staff, education and research.
42600654|In Tanganyika, mortality in young Eucalyptus plantations due to termite attack is effectively controlled by mixing powdered insecticide with the soil of each planting hole. The cost is about Shs. 15s. per acre. Clean-weeding is preferred to "spot" weeding although it may aggravate termite damage. Competition is a more serious problem than termite attack in dry area afforestation.
42601489|The results of a field experiment carried out in 1957 on Thetford Chase Forest in East Anglia, using water-soluble fungicides on felled conifer logs for the prevention of sap-stain are discussed, together with the layout of the experiment under forest conditions. Scots and Corsican Pine (Pinus sylvestris. P. nigra var. calabrica), peeled and unpeeled logs random lengths with 6 inch top diameter over bark were selected, treated at four different localities, and quarter sawn at different intervals of time to analyse degree of prevention of sap-stain. Fungicides used were "Santobrite" (Sodium pentachlorophenate) and Sodium orthophenyl phenate. Chemical treatments applied to the logs significantly reduced the amount of stain, but not to the degree required by British Grading Rules. Those treated with Sodium pentachlorophenate had the least stain at the first assessment, but there was no significant difference between the two chemicals in their effect on the amount of staining at the later assessment. There were no significant effects from species, or any inter-actions of the sites, or treatments, but there was a highly significant inter-action between the effects of peeling and the dates of felling.
42602854|An attempt is made to deduce the extent and spread of Uganda's forests in the Christian era from climatic, historical and forestal evidence.
42602541|This article describes very briefly the location, extent and types of indigenous forest found in Iraq, and notes that shifting cultivation and fires are the main causes of their present decay. Inaccessibility sets limits at present to their utilization for supplies of fuel and charcoal, the principal items of produce, which are in great demand in this wood hungry land. Organized forest development has but hardly begun. There is as yet no independent forest service and no modern forest ordinance. None of the forests have been formally reserved, though a preliminary survey and inventory of the forests has been completed. The mountain forests of Iraqi Kurdestan play a vital protection role in the Tigris catchments. Projected irrigation works in the delta region of the twin rivers offer scope for a wide development in the future for irrigated forest plantations.
42601582|Density increased outwards from the pith and was associated with an increase in the diameter and proportion of the vessesl and a decrease in the proportion of fibres. Axial and ray parenchyma showed little change. The decrease in the proportion of fibres was more than counterbalanced by a decrease in mean width of fibre (without any change in wall thickness) resulting from a marked increase in the amount of intrusive growth in the fibres outwards from the pith. The length of the vessel members did not increase outwards.
42601776|Ideally, production and protection forests should occupy about 25 per cent of a country. In Uganda, circumstances prevent more than 8-9 per cent being reserved. This limited area must be chosen to the best advantage in relation to other claims: it cannot consist entirely of waste and marginal land. Reservations should be made early, using natural boundaries (e.g. rivers) for protection, and leaving the final areas and boundaries for later decision under planned land utilization policies. These major reservations are of little direct help to the peasant farmer, who needs a clump of trees nearby for his fuel, building poles and for shade. Figures obtained in the Kigezi area suggest that these "farm forests" should occupy about 4-5 per cent of the land in farm use. About half should be in clumps near the houses, and the remainder in communal plots on marginal and steep land, forming windbreaks and contoured washstops. Both large-scale and small-scale forestry developments must be closely integrated with an overall land utilization plan, on which a clearly announced policy of land use for the territory must be based.
42600312|Mr. Hamilton describes the work of the Pakistan Forest Department with emphasis on Soil Conservation and irrigated plantations. He tells of the vast reclamation scheme in the Thai desert which covers 5 million acres where the rainfall varies between six and 13 inches, of the vegetation of the region, of irrigation work started in 1939, suspended in 1942 until the end of the war, which has been resumed. It will now command 1 million acres of land, one-tenth of which has been devoted to afforestation, the objects being the production of firewood, charcoal and poles; fuel for townships, protection against sand drifts and to provide work for a large labour force. The work takes the form of 50 acre-lots of village forest to a total of 45,000 acres; compact blocks of 1,000 to 22,000 acres to a total of 100,000 acres; 5,000 acres of shelter belts along roads and irrigation channels and finally amenity blocks. He describes methods of formation, enumerates species used, then tells of the difficulties in execution, chief being shortage of water which is deplored as it may lead, since agriculture will inevitably be given priority, to a return of the pernicious custom of using cow-dung for fuel. Finally the author describes a visit to the flat, undulating land north of the Salt Range which is badly eroded. He commends the devoted pioneer work of the Pakistan Forest Department and suggests publication of their findings regarding arid region forestry.
42602274|It is unlikely that forestry will become a major industry in Cornwall, nevertheless it has most useful functions to perform, for example the supply of cheap poles, the provision of shelter belts mainly in a pastoral context, the improvement of the landscape in its aesthetic appeal and, last but not least, the provision of more employment in rural areas. The article states briefly the natural setting, its geology and climatology together with the historical background of Cornish forestry. It goes on to describe the present position as to both hard and softwoods in the region. Four forests in the Bodmin district are then dealt with at greater length, Bodmin itself, Glynn, Herodsfoot, and Wilsey Down. The illustrations of old and new forests cover two of the areas.
42602211|This account of the 10th Australian Forestry Conference is published through the assistance of a correspondent with the approval of the Director of the Forestry & Timber Bureau, Canberra, Mr. G. J. Rodger. It includes a mainly historical account of forestry in Australia by Mr. Gordon Freeth, Minister for the Interior. The agenda hinged on fifteen papers contributed by the F. & T. Bureau and the State services. The highlights are reflected in the seven Resolutions quoted in full, on Forest Inventories (to be compiled by 1965), Dedication of Land for Forestry (all forested and other Crown Land to be dedicated), Standardised Log Volume Measurement (the cubic foot, true volume recommended), Public Use of Forest Roads (where publicly used part of the maintenance costs should fall on public funds), Town Water Catchment Supplies (State Forest Authorities to control logging and other forestry operations), Forestry Research (a Forest Research Institute recommended F. & T. Bureau, the States C.S.I.R.O., the Universities and eminent scientists all co-operating), Forest Insects (Forest Authorities actively to pursue research into control). The Conference placed on record its sense of loss at the untimely death of Forester J. B. McAdam, of New Guinea.
42602187|The writer advocates a method of assessing extraction plans. He illustrates this method by examples and shows that, for any given set of conditions, deductions can be made which will give guidance for further planning. It remains only to suggest that the method be given practical trial.
42602651|This article, reprinted by courtesy of the publishers of The Comit National des Bois Tropicaux et Centre Technique Forestier Tropical, is by a well-known authority, who has great experience of the Gaboon, the Ivory Coast and the Cameroons, and who for several years has been chief on the exploitation side of the Compagnie Franaise du Camerouns. It details the distribution of expenditure on the exploitation of a Cameroons forest and, in the first part, headings refer to Expenses and Staff wages, Sundry supplies, Tractors and other vehicles, General expenses, Depreciation and Taxes, and, in the second part, to expenditure relating to various operations such as Survey, Felling, Tractor hauling, Cross-cutting, Sapwood removal, Barking, Preservation, Road construction and maintenance, Loading, Road transport, Unloading and Overhead expenses.
42601715|Every means of increasing timber production in the Gold Coast was sought in the early war years. Derelict machinery was available and was used by the Forestry Department in 1941-42 to build a sawmill at Kumasi. Production began in August 1942, and the mill was sold in February 1947. During four-and-a-half years 813,277 cubic feet of sawn timber was produced, and almost half of this was supplied to the British and American armed forces. African operators were successfully trained in machine work, and valuable experience was gained in the utilization of secondary species, in sawing practice and in seasoning. The selling price was always at least 25 per cent below that of commercial mills and, though the primary object of management was the production of the maximum quantity of sawn timber, a substantial profit was made.
42602653|1. Experimental plots in Black Wattle should be so laid out as to equalise any variations in the uniformity of the field introduced by silvicultural methods. The disposal of brushwood is the principal source of such variation. Stocking must be carefully controlled. 2. Wattle plots must never be less than four trees in width. Six or eight rows are still better. 3. For experiments to be carried till final felling a plot size of approximately one tenth acre is recommended. 4. Blocks of plots should be square or compactly rectangular. 5. Latin Squares are slightly more efficient than randomised blocks and Lattice designs are greatly superior to either, even with relatively few treatments. 6. The degree of replication required increases with the number of treatments and varies also with the type of design. Table 8 shows the replications required with different designs and treatment numbers. 7. Mature trees may be sampled for height and diameter by measuring at random one tree per row for height and two for diameter. 8. Young trees are less variable than mature trees. Experiments to be concluded by three years of age need have plots of only 1/20 acre in size, with fewer replications (see Table 11). 9. In sampling at one year of age every tree in a 1/20 acre plot should be measured, and every other tree at 3 years. With larger plots, samples of 40 and 20 trees per plot should be taken, at 1 and 3 years respectively. 10. It is much more economical in time, space and effort to work in young trees, and there is a case for doing the bulk of the experimenting, as far as possible, on results assessed at 3 years of age, carrying relatively few more elaborate experiments to maturity for confirmation.
42601991|The progress of forest policy in the British Commonwealth of Nations is reviewed. Starting with the resolution on policy passed at the first, and endorsed at each subsequent Empire Forestry Conference, the note shows that the first declaration of policy was made for India in 1894. Several of the colonial dependencies have followed on the lines laid down for India. Declarations of policy in the U.K. and the self-governing Dominions have lagged behind India and the colonies because policy is dependent on public opinion. It has required two world wars, with the consequent demand for timber, to arouse popular governments to safeguard their future timber supply by a declared policy. The note records recent progress, especially in Canada and the U.K., and shows that the scarcity of indigenous forests in South Africa has led to greater advance in a policy of afforestation than in other countries which were able to supply their requirements either internally or by imports. The lack of a declared policy in many countries is delayed by the failure, to date, in completing a survey of forests and forest resources.
42601484|It is with great sadness that we are publishing, posthumously, thanks to H. C. Dawkins of Uganda, the last work of Hedley Pudden, late I.F.S. and latterly Silviculturist, Kenya, whose obituary appears elsewhere in this issue. It contains a simple and ingenious idea for dispensing with the large area of surround by the clinal methods here illustrated. One application is given which covers a wide range of thinning intensities in Pinus patula.
42601425|The geographical setting of the United Provinces and the details of population and agriculture in each of the main natural divisions are described. The author then traces briefly the past history of the area leading up to the introduction of systematic forestry. A description of the forest shows the concentration of forests on the higher levels, with small scattered forests and trees confined to roads, canals, streams and about villages in the thickly populated Gangetic basin. There firewood is very scarce and the inhabitants are driven to the burning of farmyard manure. The role, creation and ownership of fuel plantations on private land is dealt with together with a description of recent steps taken to give tenants rights to the use of trees planted on their holdings. The development of fuel-fodder reserves on State land, especially along canals, roads and railways, is described and the utilization and improvement of uncultivated land. The article ends with a description of the latest planting technique, the steps taken towards the control of private treelands and the organization set up to deal with all these problems.
42599708|The use of keys in identification of trees is discussed, and standard terms suggested for use in a perforated card system, based on diagnostic features that can readily be observed during enumerations in tropical forest.
42602646|This article, amplified very slightly to conform to the author's original draft, and with his original title, is a reprint by courtesy of the publishers from the Truck Logger of October 1953. To quote that periodical, "Mr. Gilmour tells us that he believes the conclusions which he has reached to be the basis of a new concept. He thinks, "It is practical and just to all, and I believe it can be defended on the highest economic authority. It is not theory or guesswork".
42600978|The spatial distribution of the larger-sized trees of the more valuable (economically) species was determined on 17,280 plots within a large block of 4,320 acres, and these small plots were combined into various groups to give details of stocking by forty-four different sizes or shapes of plot. All the species considered showed that their distribution in space does not conform to the 'normal' Gaussian distribution or the Poisson, but is more related to a contagious distribution such as the Negative Binomial. Small sizes of Triplochiton and Khaya ivorensis appear to be related to the stocking of bigger sizes of the same species in space. Long, narrow samples running across the local drainage are likely to give the lowest sampling errors and may at times give results which can be treated as "normal" distributions.
42601876|This paper deals with the problem of water conservation when forest is replaced by grass-land. It is written with particular reference to East Africa, where widespread clearing in connexion with anti-tsetse work has been suggested. The operation of the hydrological cycle is discussed, and by examples from East Africa and elsewhere the possible effects of replacement of forest by grass-land are shown. The complexity of soil-vegetation-water relations is stressed, as is also the danger of generalizing from the results of one or two experiments. Decisions on the effect of clearing upon water supplies can only be made after assessment of a number of locality factors. This requires research and planning, and without such preliminary work widespread clearing may adversely affect water supplies.
42599474|A series of low percentage enumerations was laid out in South Mengo, Uganda, and analysed statistically to investigate the alleged unreliability of such work in tropical forest. It was found that precision, i.e. smallness of sampling errors, depended on density of the desired population as well as on the number of samples available. The actual percentage of the sample was, in fact, of little significance compared to its comminution and the density of the observed quantities within it. Sampling errors of less than 20 per cent were obtained on populations of more than two stems per acre by a 1 per cent dispersed plot enumeration of 7.5 square miles of highly variable forest. While dispersed plot enumerations gave more precise estimatesfor equal areas sampledthan transect methods, yet the relative cheapness of the latter made them more efficient except in special cases. When dealing with areas of from 5 to 15 square miles, two-per-half-mile stratified random chain-wide transects giving 5 per cent cover are advocated for estimating populations with densities from one to ten stems per acre. For lower population densities or smaller areas higher percentage cover is likely to be necessary, while with increasing population or area, lower percentages would give tolerable errors. Superimposed dispersed plot 20 per cent sub-samples of the transects were suitable for estimates of populations exceeding ten per acre, if more than one square mile was originally covered. It is urged that all management relying on enumeration results should be based on the lower fiducial limit and not on the mean of the sample. This value is more easily understood as the Reliable Minimum Estimate, a term here suggested for general use in forest sampling.
42602502|Cyprus being an agricultural country requires large quantities of wood fuel for domestic and industrial purposes. The source of supply ran short because of the devastation of the forests in the past. To improve matters Government introduced legislation in 1901, under which every village could have its own fuel area, but the law has never been applied partly because the villages did not like it and partly because the Forest Department was unable to organize supervision of the works with the limited staff available at the time. However by 1905 the Government had acquired large areas near the main towns, and began itself the establishment of forest plantations. These proved very successful and provided large quantities of firewood and also bark. Formation of forest plantations was revived again between 1922 and 1930 but on this occasion it failed partly because the villagers were hostile and partly because of lack of protection. In 1942 the formation of fuel areas, now called "village fuel areas" or "municipal areas" was started again but this time with financial assistance under Colonial Development and Welfare Schemes. On this occasion to ensure success, village public opinion was cultivated and the necessary protection was left to the care of the village councils. Also, techniques were developed which did away with watering, a very expensive operation. The work done so far is most satisfactory but it should, for the benefit of the community, be continued vigorously.
42601682|This paper describes shortly the main forest regions of Venezuela, the transportation and logging conditions, the main timber species and volumes, the legal and practical side of timber cutting and discusses briefly the possibilities in the future.
42599779|The writer has considered four of the major aspects of veneer and plywood manufacture and production, viz.: peeler logs, veneer manufacture and moisture content, plywood glues and utilization of waste. These trends are discussed in the light of recent advances in improvement of technique, utilization and research with a view to obtaining a higher conversion value under New Zealand conditions. Improvement should begin in the forest or plantation, to be followed by intensive research or investigation in the factory or mill during the conversion stage. With future development of the industry, problems such as waste utilization and moisture content control will require much further study and research.
42600947|In Tillamook county, Oregon, three fires over a period of eighteen years from 1933 destroyed a 355,000 acre tract of coast forest. Wartime demands made possible the initiation of the salvage of the abandoned stands; this still continues. Public clamour led to a rehabilitation programme, initiated in 1949. This is the largest in the United States. Fire protection has been greatly intensified. The tract is divided into major blocks by 200 miles of snag-free corridors of from one half to one mile wide. There are secondary fire breaks. Access roads have been constructed. Over 1,000,000 mags have been felled, 30,000 acres planted, 56,000 acres aerial seeded and 30,000 acres restocked naturally.
42602065|The paper describes the conditions prevailing in the private forests in East Bengal on the eve of the enactment of the East Bengal Private Forests Act 1949. As these forests are contained in widely-scattered patches and distributed among innumerable holdings, their management is very complicated. Recognition of lease-holders as "owners" in the Act has further complicated the matter. Possibilities of management of these forests on a co-operative basis have been discussed and suggestions offered.
42601636|The Forestry Commission of Great Britain has recently prepared a new working plans code. This code introduces a form of working plan designed to meet the needs of an expanding forest estate in a period of rapid economic, technological and political development throughout the world. A clear distinction is drawn between short, medium and long term planning and a method has been evolved of adjusting plans to meet changing circumstances without, at the same time, losing sight of the original objectives. The responsibilities towards working plans of the various technical grades within the Commission are clearly defined. The various planning and recording procedures of the new code have been introduced at all forests although it will take a number of years to complete the surveys and inventories and to write plans for all forests.
42600980|One-third of Oregon's economy is directly dependent on the forest resource. There is a labour force of 80 thousand with an annual output worth over $1,000 million. The end of the virgin timber is in sight and future dependence must rest on the management of second-growth forest. The state agency's activities include protection, forest land rehabilitation, enforcement of minimum forest practices, management of state holdings, provision of nursery stock, and advisory services to small owners. While forestry remains extensive the last ten years have seen major developments and changes in professional orientation.
42602682|The position of management plans in British Columbia is first indicated and their relation to sustained yield forestry is discussed. The history of the management programme for the region is sketched, starting as it did in its present form in 1947 in consequence of the recommendation of the 1945 Royal Commission on Forestry. The scope of the execution of these proposals is discussed, and at present 15 per cent of the Province's total productive area is under plans providing an annual harvest of 360 m. cu. f. or 38 per cent of the 1954 cut. The nature of management licences is then considered, and the conclusion drawn that when granted these have in general worked out satisfactorily. Public Working Circles are then described at some length and it is suggested that although formal plans have not yet been prepared for most of the Public Working Circles each phase of forestry has already been developed to a considerable degree in many areas. The importance of the Forest Inventory as a basis for management plans is then stressed and the provision of staff liaison in preliminary planning and its nature is discussed in detail. The conclusions are that the task is of great magnitude and that there is a big job ahead, that there has inevitably been a period of trial and error, but that this can be shortened with sound organization and the best use of available staff.
42602067|The occurrence of a crystalline deposit superimposed upon the familiar calcareous concretion frequently found in fissures in the wood of Chlorophora excelsa has been observed for the first time. The crystalline material has been identified as calcium malate, and it is considered probable that, in common with the more usual inorganic deposit, it is formed as a result of slow evaporation of sap which has seeped into cavities in the growing tree.
42601676|The physiography, climate, vegetation of the habitat and the distribution and site requirements of seven tannin-bearing eucalypts are given; the species are: E. astringens, E. gardneri, E. falcata, E. occidentalism E. spathulata, E. brockwayi and E. dundasi. The silviculture of these species is discussed, in particular that of E. astringens (brown mallet). Existing data indicates that brown mallet may be as profitable as wattle as a source of tannin, and its timber is more valuable because it is a satisfactory substitute for hickory. Brown mallet is less selective in its growth requirements than wattle and should prove valuable in afforestation.
42601579|Individual areas of a map which are required to be determined are transferred on to a thin tracing medium, cut out and weighed. The areas are calculated on the assumption that the surface areas of the dissected portions are directly proportional to their weights. Of the two different tracing materials that were examined, "Ethulon", a plastic sheet, was found to be superior to ordinary tracing paper provided that all samples are taken from strips running the length of the roll.
42599867|In this paper the conditions governing forest management, the forest policy, land tenure, finance, forest type, markets and methods of exploitation, are explained, then the silvicultural and management techniques now under trial are described and discussed.
42602432|At the end of 1941, when the war had reached a critical stage, it was evident that the United Kingdom would have to rely more and more on its own timber resources.There appeared to be no prospect of an early termination of hostilities and doubts were expressed whether the woodlands of the country would stand the strain. The Home Timber Production Department, which was responsible for maintaining supplies of home-grown timber, both departmentally and by the trade, decided, therefore, to undertake a census of the standing timber in England and Wales. A complete census was not possible in the time available and a sampling method had to be adopted. The article describes the methods and technique employed and reviews the results that were obtained.
42600512|This note describes an investigation to examine the effect of staining by the bluestain fungus (Lasiodiplodia theobromae) on the strength properties of ramin (Gonystylus sp.). There is a progressive reduction in bending strength, stiffness and toughness with the growth of the fungus, but losses in the first two are insignificant even with appreciable staining of the wood. The loss in toughness is significant.
42600977|In Sind, the riverain forests, which are edaphic formations, cover an area of half a million acres (750 square miles) on the banks of the River Indus. Until now these forests have been managed to produce firewood for Karachi and other big towns. Recently an alternative and cheaper source of fuel, viz. natural gas, has been discovered, and the firewood from these forests will no longer be needed. It is, therefore, necessary to change over to timber species. The annual floods, to a depth of 3 ft.6 ft. in these forests, along with deposition of large quantities of silt resulting in continual change in ground level, and also the fact that all areas are eroded every 30-40 years, greatly limit the choice of species.
42602273|A general description is given of the mangrove forests in the delta of the Kikori and Purari Rivers. A detailed examination was made of the barks from Rhizophora mucronata, R. apiculata, Bruguiera gymnorrhiza and B. parviflora. Bark from the first three species is used as raw material by a recently established factory for the manufacture of mangrove tannin extract (cutch). The resources of tan-bark species in the area are discussed, and also the uses and possible future applications of cutch. Suggestions for utilizing the woody portion of the tree are given.
42601777|Trapnell's Vegetation-Soil Map and Memoir, the result of over fifteen years' labour, are reviewed. Some improvements and additions are suggested for the final form of this valuable contribution to information on African vegetation.
42601728|Recent investigations at the Forest Products Research Laboratory, Princes Risborough, have indicated that the sapwood of hardwoods can be protected from infestation by Lyctus Powder-post beetles during seasoning or storage, by treatment with a D.D.T. spray. The formulation at present recommended is a water emulsion containing at least 2 per cent D.D.T. and is readily prepared from-commercially available miscible oil concentrates of D.D.T. by the addition of the required amount of water.
42600503|Specimens from 18 teak trees, ranging in age from 7 to 270 years, and representing natural and plantation grown trees from several countries, were tested in the laboratory for resistance to decay and to termite attack and for extractive content. The resistance to decay by Coniophora cerebella Pers, and by Trametes lilacino-gilva Berk, of blocks cut from outer (or in some cases middle or inner) heartwood, and of sawdust representing a sector from pith to outer heartwood, varied widely for diffrent trees, and there was no reliable correlation with origin (plantation or natural), age, size, or rate of growth of tree. There was some indication of a correlation between decay resistance and the amount of material removed by methanol extraction after preliminary extraction with ether. Resistance to attack by the subterranean termites Coptotermes lacteus (Frogg.) and Nasutitermes exitiosus (Hill) of blocks cut from the outer (or in some cases middle or inner) heartwood also varied widely and there was no significant difference between plantation and natural grown teak, although there was a positive correlation of termite resistance with age of tree and extractive content. Resistance to decay and termite attack was lower in the centre of some trees than in the highly durable outer heartwood, but was greater than that of the heartwood of Eucalyptus regnans F. Muell. used as a control; teak sapwood samples were less resistant than the underlying heartwood but much more resistant than E. regnans heartwood. It is concluded that some trees of Tectona grandis commence to form durable heartwood at a very early age, whilst others continue to produce non-durable heartwood for many years. Further investigations are being made of reasons for this difference, as well as studies of the nature and toxicity of the extractive materials in teak.
42602504|The measurement of light intensity in forestry practice is a problem which requires further investigation. The variations in radiation and the difficulties met in two methods of light measurement are described.
42602687|Work in other arid zones is mentioned including costs, extent, and successful species, related particularly to Changa Manga in the Punjab. Chapman's work at Hawija and at Abu Ghraib farm then receives comment. Successful species are named. The lack of data on water use in Iraq is deplored, but a 15 per cent share of commandable irrigation water is suggested for forestry plantation work. There is a general timber shortage in Iraq; measures to combat this in consultation with F.A.O. are indicated. These measures should include dispersed irrigated village fuel plantations and also shelterbelts. Species of timber value receive comment, e.g. Eucalyptus dundasi, and various Acacias, etc., named as likely shelterbelt species. The need for overall planning is stressed with careful costing and there should be no privileged rates for the use of water in forestry operations.
42600246|The object of the paper is to discuss how the Tropical Forests, which are made up of many species of trees, shrubs, climbers and herbs, regenerate, and how the composition changes in space and time. The first part describes the author's own observations in Central India in the Tropical Deciduous Forest during a service of nearly 30 years, and refers to the experience of Forest Departments in India. The second part is a review of published writings from Africa, Asia and tropical America and gives extracts from many papers which refer to the course of regeneration in the Tropics. The author believes this is the first time that an attempt has been made to collate the observations of writers from all over the Tropics. The third part is an attempt to draw the threads together and to indicate how the analysis set out in the paper could influence Research and Management in the Tropical Forests. It is suggested that the Tropical Mixed Forest does not form a stable climax community with a fixed make-up, and that Foresters and Ecologists working in the Tropics should cut free from the ecological concepts developed in temperate countries.
42602859|1. The best existing account of tropical tree volume table construction describes the application of various mathematical curves to fit the data. The fitting process is laborious and a quicker method was sought. 2. It is known that tropical high-forest trees put on little timber height once near the mature girth-range, and that subsequent increment approximates to a simple increase in diameter. 3. An inherent linear relation should therefore exist between square-root-volume and girth. This tendency is proved. 4. The volume table may therefore be constructed by calculating the regression of square-root-volume on girth, testing the coefficient, and then squaring calculated square-root volumes. 5. Such a construction is described in detail, together with the Griffith tests that should be applied to the results. 6. In the present case, where form heights approximate to a horizontal linear relation with girth, a special application to enumeration sampling is described. 7. A selection of typical volume tables for Uganda timber trees is graphically compared.
42600857|The pulp and paper industry as at present established in New Zealand draws its raw material from large exotic forests on the central North Island plateau. Their establishment and subsequent general history are well known to all. This paper is confined to this region because as yet it is only here that the pulp and paper industry has had a large-scale influence. This paper seeks to show the impact these large integrated industries are having on such an even-aged, unmanaged estate, their only available source of supply. It outlines the problems thus created and the measures to be taken in future to provide an everincreasing supply of high quality produce from these forests.
42602309|The growth of Pinus insularis on the Copperbelt in North Rhodesia is described. Rates of growth and volumes obtained are given and compared with those of Pinus patula in Southern Rhodesia and South Africa. The quality of the timber is discussed and results from the Philippines and of P. khasiya in the Belgian Congo are given and compared with those of P. patula in South Africa. In conclusion, though tree form is sometimes poor in youth, P. insularis is stated to be the most successful softwood introduction to N. Rhodesia.
42601422|This article reviews in a broad sense the help which air photography can give to foresters. Air survey is by now a proven means for timber stocking and general forest management. Although it is costly initially it is in the long run cheaper than the old ground methods and several interpreters on sets of the same photographs can get much the same information as they would be able to get on laborious ground work. This article deals with air survey for forestry and mapping together as the same photographs can be used to produce stock maps and topographical maps and in cases where costs may be high, two parties wishing to have the same area surveyed for different reasons may find it profitable to share the costs. This may be the case particularly in concession areas where modern large-scale maps aie non-existent but nevertheless of prime importance to planned economic development. Several methods of combining a forestry and topographical survey are described as well as the methods of air survey applicable only to forestry. The merits of summer and winter photography are discussed and also the optimum scale for prints. The writer finishes by suggesting that the time is ripe for considering the recruitment of trained interpreters into forestry companies or vice versa the training of promising young foresters in photo-interpretation so that with the growth of photographic cover of forest lands there is no dearth of people to interpret the detail it holds.
42601782|A disease attacking young trees of Eucalyptus globulus in Kenya is described. The disease, caused by Botrytis cinerea Pers. has been observed once only during the exceptionally wet year of 1946. The fungus attacks juvenile foliage only. It causes desiccation of the leaves and stem and branch cankers.
42602024|Scotland has a 50 per cent share in the afforestation programme for the next fifty years in Great Britain. Her smaller industrial area and her potential production of softwood timber in the future make it important that economic markets should be established and maintained. Her traditional experience of softwoods will stand her in good stead so far as production is concerned, but there is still much to be done in the search for new methods of manufacture and research into the requirements of other appropriate markets. The development of new markets for the smaller dimension produce is now paramount. Reduction of transport costs by peeling the trees and seasoning the timber at or near the forest areas is urged. By doing so more markets are possible.
42601774|In Cyprus wood is the only kind of fuel produced and until quite modern times was the only source of heating available in the island. As a result in recent years of the doubling of the population, of advances in industrialization and of two world wars during both of which imports of fuel were cut off and considerable allied armies were supplied from local resources, a very acute fuel problem has arisen. In the areas where most of the population is centred, wood fuel is no longer to be found and even the less populated districts have only a small surplus for disposal. In the main State forests, where resources were strained to the utmost during the Second World War, adequate supplies no longer exist and even if they could be made available for a time by further over-exploitation, it is certain that distance would make it impossible to arrange for distribution to all the centres of consumption. The consequent rise in fuel prices has led at times to widespread felling of fruit trees for fuel and there is a constant danger of a recurrence of this practice. 2. For some years before 1939 it had been realized that a serious situation was arising and that Government efforts would be powerless to deal with it unless supported by energetic private enterprise. The Second World War merely brought affairs to a head, so that in 1941 the matter was taken in hand. Legislation sufficient to deal with the situation already existed in the Forest Laws and with the aid of a grant from the British Treasury a start was actually made in 1942 on the creation of Village Fuel Areas. Since then up to the end of 1947, seventy-four of such Fuel Areas have been created and nearly 3000 acres of plantation successfully established, at a cost of 48,000. 3. The primary aim of the Village Fuel Area scheme is the production of wood fuel near to the centres of consumption and the relief of pressure for fuel on the more vulnerable main State Forests by planting land in the plains which is of too poor quality for agriculture or other more profitable form of land use. The principal species used are wattle (Acacia cyanophylla) and eucalyptus (E. gomphocephalla and tereticornis), which are fast growing and coppice freely. Cypress is also planted for production of roofing poles and the slower-growing carob (Ceratonia siliqua) is also used on calcareous soils not only for the production of fuel but for carob beans for animal fodder. In actual fact the scheme has achieved an even greater success than a mere statement of areas would suggest, for the demonstration of proper planting methods and the realization by the public of the eventual profits to be gained from the correct use of derelict land has resulted in widespread private planting with planting stock made available in Government nurseries. 4. The actual establishment of the Village Fuel Areas is carried out by the village authorities under advice and supervision from the Government forest staff. The initial cost of establishment is paid by the State, a fund being allotted to the village and administered by the village authorities, subject to scrutiny of payments by responsible Government officers. The subsequent maintenance and protection of the plantations are the responsibility of the village and revenue from the sale of fuel is paid into the village fund. These arrangements have so far worked with hardly a failure and it is a striking fact that the very villages which were originally responsible for the destruction of the forests of the plains are now the most active in the protection of the new plantations.
42602314|In some Commonwealth countries the existing methods of collecting timber revenues are being called in question. The manner in which fees and royalties are levied is sometimes thought to be unduly cumbersome and ill-adapted to the current needs of the timber industry and of forest departments. The author describes the problem as posed in the Western Region of Nigeria and, in answer to a request, puts forward a formula for calculating an equitable charge for standing timber. Some of the main controversial issues between the forest department and the trade are provided as an historical background. The proposals include suggestions about procedures for using accounting and prices data when determining appropriate charges. The disadvantages of a flat rate are recognised in view of such variables as accessibility, volume per acre, conversion ratios and quality. A points system of weighting is recommended for the payment of "deficiency payments" from the standard or flat-rate prices for rendering more equitable treatment to the less favoured exploiters.
42600467|An attempt has been made to organise the numerous "one-man" loggers in British Guiana into co-operative logging societies. By this it was hoped to achieve inter alia: (1) Improved logging methodsgreater efficiency, production, etc. (2) Systematic exploitation by blocks in place of random creaming of the forestsleading towards planned management. (3) Improved standard of living for the loggers. Preliminary results are encouraging, but there appears to be need for heavier capitalisation and also for more staff to ensure stricter supervision of the societies.
42602686|The Punjab, a province of West Pakistan lying in the sub-tropical latitudes, has a severe continental type of climate. It suffers from high natural aridity and extremes of temperatures. Excessive pressure of population on land in the recent past in the Punjab led to further desiccation, accelerated soil erosion and land degradation. At present various techniques are being followed to reclaim and rehabilitate the different categories of deteriorated soils. Cultural operations aiming at soil and water conservation are carried out to combat the menace of soil erosion. Badly ravined lands are levelled and terraced with heavy earth-moving machinery. Desert fringe belt receiving less than ten inches of annual rainfall is being restocked with drought-resistant woody and forage species. Some of the barren waste lands are being turned into irrigated forest plantations with canal water. The saline and alkali soils are being reclaimed by flooding and growing rice with large quantities of water. More research is needed to further refine and improve our present reclamation techniques and management practices for rehabilitation of degraded soils.
42602860|The Mediterranean Cypress is next in importance as a forest tree to the pines. It grows well along the northern range of mountains and is used extensively as a windbreak around orchards. The growth is slow, but it can be accelerated by irrigation when a height growth of 7 feet or more per annum is not uncommon. The species prefers calcareous soils, but it does well on any other type of soil providing it is deep and fresh. It is highly shade tolerant and retains the branches for a very long time. Pruning is injurious because of the inability of the tree to occlude its wounds unless painted with some antiseptic. The species reproduces itself freely from seed, but also by coppicing if the stem is cut off above the lowest whorl of branches. The timber is durable and is used extensively in building construction.
42602498|A comparison between the Tennessee Valley. Authority and its Indian counterpart, the Damodar Valley Corporation, shows that the experience gained in the oldest American "valley project" is of great value to those attempting similar projects elsewhere. A serious initial handicap for the D.V.C. is shown to be its legislative act which encourages interference from local political forces when a clear and firm board management undisturbed by political issues is the essential need. Details are given of a 15-year programme which has been drafted for afforestation of down-at-heel forest, reclamation of eroding waste, and recruiting and training of a soil conservation extension service to help the peasants to stop erosion in farm lands.
42601638|The "Miombo Conference" as it became popularly known must be regarded surely as the highlight of the forestry year, and as such deserves more than passing note in Forest Newsletter. This Supplement therefore tries to give an overall picture of the meeting, including the lighter side as well as the scientific and professional aspects. The Agenda is given together with recommendations arising out of it, one of which (IX) concerned a recommendation of those papers to be adopted as working documents, 16 in all, for the Conference. A full list is given of papers submitted, 32 in all, from many territories.. This symposium ends with "Impressions of an Observer" by D. C. Cumming; "Impressions about Inventory and Management" by H. M. N. Lees; "A Botanists Impressions" by D. B. Fanshawe; "Impressions of the Utilisation Officer" by B. E. Webb, and finally "Further Impressions," by Messrs. G. N. Cooling and G. H. D. Williams.
42601713|An attempt is made to summarize the conditions facing foresters in Palestine when the British Mandate began, and to trace the achievements of the last quartercentury, beginning with the period when F. J. Tear, B. A.(Oxon), Dip. For.(Oxon), was Chief Forest Officer and Deputy Director of Agriculture and Forests, through the Conservancy of G. N. Sale, B. Sc.(For.)(Edin.), the first head of the separate Forest Department, and ending with current events under the Acting Conservancy of A. Y. Goor, M.B.E., M.S., Ph.D., Dip.For(Oxon.). These divisions are mere conveniences, of course, and no attempt has been made to observe them rigidly. Then follows a summary of results achieved, and developments planned when the Mandate terminated.
42602216|It is suggested that the insect responsible for many of the ambrosia-beetle tunnels found in the wood of apparently sound Wawa logs from Ghana is a recently named species of platypodid, Trachyostus ghanaensis Schedl, and not Chaetastus (=Symmerus) tuberculatus (Chap.). The application of preventive measures depends on knowledge of the conditions under which Wawa becomes susceptible to attack. In this respect defoliation by caterpillars of the genus Anaphe is a possible predisposing factor.
42601545|It is possible to programme electronic digital computers to carry out calculations at very high speeds, and to follow complex series of instructions without error. Dependent upon these abilities, methods of operational research enable important practical problems to be simulated and solved. These developments are immediately relevant to, and will play an important part in, forest management. Edited text of a talk given to Section K* (Forestry) of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, Norwich, 1961.
42602819|New Zealand's economy is based on its agricultural and pastoral industries but its exotic forest estate is assuming increasing importance. The area of drifting sand although only 0.4 per cent of the total land area can reach 4 per cent in certain districts. Policy for the sand dune country is stated by the author who explains measures taken to implement it. There are at present four schemes based on establishing permanent cover of the foredunes using marram grass and yellow lupins. Slow progress was made by manual means so mechanisation was sanctioned in 1953. Comparison of the relative efficiency of the two methods is made and developments are described of planting machines adapted to the particular purpose. The likely difficulties to be encountered receive mention and the savings, of the order of 50 per cent, which can be effected are stressed. An appendix quoted from the N.Z.F.S. Annual Report 1954-55 gives information on the four projects now in hand.
42602581|Existing methods of tropical forest silviculture seek to improve the economic growing stock by cutting, girdling or poisoning the worst of the weeds. These techniques (except for successful poisoning) are usually incomplete as the crop is not permanently freed of its encumbrances. Because the work has been treated as a series of separate operations no single objective has been stated. The real objective should be a thorough refining of the forest; this term is proposed and the concept described. Forest refining means the complete elimination of lianes, weed and defective trees, shrubs and herbs, subject to silvicultural desirability and the objects of the working plan. Refining is shown to be a practical proposition since the discovery fourteen years ago of effective hormonal herbicides, and their recent use as contact arboricides.
42602428|The efficiency of forestry as a method of land utilization is to be measured ultimately by the relationship between costs of production and incomes received, including in the latter any indirect benefits derived from the presence of woodland.The fertility of the soil and the extent to which climatic conditions are favourable are the principal factors which determine the physical productivity of any site. A danger in forestry in Britain at the present time is that land of such low grade, in terms of physical productivity, may be relegated to forestry that no adequate return on the costs of management is possible. It is demonstrated, however, that the liability for disease to occur rises as the fertility of the site falls. Losses owing to disease have thus to be added to inadequate returns owing to a poor growth rate.The economic disadvantage of a site is thus, as a rule, greater than is indicated by estimates based on actual growth rates, and this is so to an increasing degree the less fertile the site. It can also be demonstrated that the losses owing to disease become increasingly great the less the species grown is adapted to the locality.This is a matter of very great importance in a country such as Britain where most of the economic forest crops are exotic and comparatively little understood ecologically.Moreover, any species is, to a greater or less extent, a variable any one strain of which may be more or less suited to a locality than another. Under these circumstances three types of things are essential to efficient forestry: first that the factors which determine growth rate throughout the life of the tree shall be understood so that site fertility may be adequately estimated; second that the relative suitability of the species available to any site shall properly be appreciated; thirdly that the inherent variability of a species shall also be adequately understood so that its economic use may be as efficient as possible.
42601155|The development of coal-mining in Enugu in about 1912 led to the formation of a plantation to supplement the supplies of mangrove pitprops brought by rail from Port Harcourt. The props were required in lengths of 4 to 12 foot, with a minimum top diameter of 1 inch per foot. Despite a rainfall of 72 inches per annum, silviculture was not easy on the heavily-farmed and degraded lateritic soil of the area. Of many species tried, Tectona grandis and Gmelina arborea have proved the most satisfactory. Both are now grown on a coppice and clear-felling system with a fifteen-year rotation; this produces at least one 12-foot pitprop per tree. Both are equally acceptable as mining timbers and have similar silvicultural demands. Gmelina is less exacting than teak, but has a pronounced tendency to taper. New plantations are established by taungya farming (tree planting with an agricultural crop).
42602310|A preliminary survey was undertaken to investigate the conditions under which the species grows and special features of the tree in relation to these, in order to examine the factors influencing natural regeneration and to suggest silvicultural treatment to secure this. It was found that the root system of the tree keeps pace with fluctuations in the surface water level by the growth of pneumotophores. It also reacts to forest light conditions by strong phototropism. Light conditions and water level are critical factors in regeneration, and a clear-felling system is advocated to obtain this. A suitable method of collecting and extracting seed is suggested. Under natural conditions economic use of the species is precluded by its slow girth increment, and the improvement of this is the next major problem.
42601067|Ground-effect or air-cushion machines are discussed. Illustrated by line drawings the principles used in various types are enunciated. Allied Types receive mention. Land and amphibian craft are now possible and their economics are discussed briefly and referred to their possible use in logging operations. Caution in the application of present data to forestry is recommended, but it may be that such craft will be found to have possible application in forestry so that the result of experimental trials in West Africa are awaited with interest.
42600973|The place of the Forestry Division in the planned land use of savannah regions is discussed. Salient points are: (1) The need to assess all sites for their potential as producers of forest crops before finalising any land allocation. (2) The need to have proper hydrological studies made before deforesting or afforesting watersheds. (3) The urgent necessity to institute production of bush meat on a sustained yield basis whilst this is still possible.
42600979|An investigation was made into the resistance of ten species of Australian timber (Family Myrtaceae), used in the mines at Broken Hill, to decay by fungi present there. Samples of the most abundant species, Eucalyptus pilularis, were examined for intratree differences in resistance and inter-tree differences among trees grown in certain districts; no significant differences existed. There was no significant difference between samples of E. pilularis obtained from several districts throughout its range. Significant differences in resistance existed among the ten species of timber. Their relative resistance toward two brown-rotting fungi corresponded closely, but it was entirely different toward a white-rotting fungus. For all fungi, the between-tree variance was low in resistant species, but high in susceptible species.
42601681|The Conference impressed the writer with the development and complexity of chemical Weed Control in Agriculture. Much of it is quite new. This contribution is intended for foresters who lack -much close acquaintance with the subject. The question whether more use could be made of this branch of Agricultural Chemistry in Forestry practice is briefly discussed.
42602688|Sand dune reclamation has been practised in Cyprus for the last 50 years. Successful works are the Plantations of Salamis, Famagusta and Limassol which were planted to Acacia cyanophylla, Pinus pinea, Eucalyptus rostrata, E. tereticornis and E. gomphocephala. The pine and Eucalyptus attained a girth of over 6 feet within 40 years, while the wattle was cut for firewood on a 7-10 years rotation. Canes, Tamarix, Dodonea and Lycium barbarum were also tried successfully near the shore. Attempts to reclaim the Ayia Erini sand drifts were made between 1925-1929 but failed, partly because of wrong technique and partly because of leaving the area unprotected after 1931. Reclamation was attempted again in 1940 using one year old nursery seedlings and watering during the first rainless summer. At the same time experiments were carried out which demonstrated that pines could be raised from seed in situ provided the soil temperature was lowered. Superficial water was not a limiting factor because of the pine's long tap root. Soil temperature was lowered by sowing on ridges or mounds or by dressing the planting site with white soil which does not absorb so much heat. By direct planting, costings were reduced to less than 1/20th of the original cost. Wattle, unlike the pine, uses superficial water because it has no definite tap root and a widely spread root system. It can be buried 2 or 3 feet deep with advantage. This helps to support the young plant and keeps it in a moist horizon. Wattles, 4 inches in diameter and 15 feet high, were raised in 9 months by watering the plants twice a week during the hot summer. As a preliminary to reclamation, the active dunes were put under control either by making fences 4-5 feet high or by covering the area with brush wood. This is essential for about a year or two until the wattle grows up and checks the wind. Tamarix and canes are also useful hedge plants near the shore as both of them are tolerant of salt spray.
42599865|A brief review of Western Samoa's history and geography, its features of geology and topography, its climate and soils, its vegetation and problems of forestry and land-use. The author, an ex-Forest Officer of the Burma Forest Service who has recently served in New Zealand, made a trip to Samoa in company with Colin Marshall of the C.F.S. and they compiled a joint report, recently published, on their visit. For permission to publish this article we are indebted to the Government of New Zealand and particularly to Mr. A. R. Entrican, Director of Forestry.
42600509|The author with unique experience of the species, gives some notes on occurrence, primary conversion, uses, conversion in preparation for making musical instruments, defects, seasoning, grading and packing of the timber of African blackwood (Dalbergia melanoxylon).
42601424|This was written at the request of Mr. A. P. F. Hamilton, C.I.E., O.B.E., M.C., Inspector-General of Forests for India, and is intended to form one of a series which will show current progress in forestry in the various provinces of India. In the Punjab, apart from the spectacular war effort in exploitation to meet the enormous demands for Himalayan coniferous planking, there has arisen a better appreciation of the value of Sissoo (Dalbergia sissoo) as a general utility hardwood which to a considerable extent has taken the previous place of Teak. Sissoo is therefore being widely used for afforestation and the reclamation of torrent-ruined lands. This work and the better management of degraded grazing land now form new obligations which will require new forest divisions for each of the plains civil districts. The fixation of shifting sands in the southern districts along the desert fringe has not yet been seriously tackled, and a vast amount of work, for which our present staff is quite inadequate, has still to be attempted if agricultural prosperity is to be secured.
42602801|Control of termite attack on Eucalyptus citriodora was investigated in a randomised block experiment, employing two insecticides applied in various ways. Dieldrin treatment of the planting-holes resulted in the best survival of the trees. Treatment with Agrocide 7 (B.H.C.) gave inferior results. For both insecticides, broadcast spraying of the site before planting was not so effective as treatment of plant-pots and/or planting-holes. Agrocide 7 appeared to have an adverse effect on height growth.
42600943|Eucalyptus botryoides, E. saligna and E. pilularis seedlings were grown in perlite culture. Some were supplied with a "complete" nutrient solution, others with solutions low in N, P, K, Mg or Ca. Seedlings supplied with a low level of N or P developed few or no branches. A low level of K produced more extensive branching than normal, due to a reduction in internode length, the growth of a branch in every main-stem leaf axil and some second order branching. E. botryoides and E. saligna seedlings supplied with a low rate of Mg produced drooping branches and leaves that were larger than normal. After a period of normal growth, seedlings starved of Ca suddenly stopped growing and died; in the case of E. pilularis death was preceded by the production of many abortive axillary branches.
42600465|The Forest Department in Tanganyika is unique in having a Beekeeping Division. The Division began in 1949 with one man sharing a table in an agricultural office and has grown into a research and teaching organisation employing some one hundred and ten persons. Research is carried out on everything concerning beekeeping and bee products. Most of the staff are employed on extension work and propaganda. An education system has been established and advisory work extends even into other countries. Research and extension work proceed hand in hand. Legislation plays its part and there is close liaison with other departments and neighbouring governments.
42602308|Impressions are given of an industrial "tree farm" and a federal experimental forest, representative of the more enlightened pine management practices. Management on the units described is in advance of prevailing practice, but the tracts described and the problems discussed are typical of the region. Reference is made to some of the problems encountered by the western American forester in his efforts to bring the natural yellow pine stands of this semi-arid region under management under present economic conditions and extensive management, while providing for the harvesting of over-mature and deteriorating growing stock. Consideration is given to questions of insect and disease control, harvesting, management, and the development of silvicultural practice. The Unit Area Control is briefly considered.
42601070|Soil treatment with gibberellic acid is generally not advised since it seems to be accepted that the substance is rapidly inactivated in the soil. However, recent experiments have demonstrated the following effects from the application of gibberellic acid to soils of different types: 1. Increase in the water-retaining capacity of the soils; 2. Suppression of some of the natural soil vegetation, i.e., algae and mosses; 3. Reduction in size of the root systems of the experimental plants, accompanied by marked stimulation of root-hair formation and total suppression of fungal infections.
42600470|It is noted that it is difficult to arrive at a practical direct method of light measurement for forest purposes, but it is suggested that the difficulties can be evaded and a measurement of lighting conditions in forests obtained sufficiently accurate for most silvicultural purposes by taking vertical photographs in the forest and from them measuring the degree to which the sky is obscured. Details of a suggested technique for this are given and the whole is illustrated by a practical application in lowland dipterocarp forest in Malaya.
42601880|Describes the work of forest reconnaissance and stock mapping in Iraqi Kurdestan, for part of which a Bell Aircraft Company helicopter was employed. The advantages over ground surveys of forest sketch mapping from such a machine are noted, and the article concludes with some comments on flying in a helicopter.
42600945|While for centuries agriculturists have been growing their crops "pure" and have been selecting and breeding their plants for increased production and better quality, it is only comparatively recently that foresters have started to do the same thing. Indeed many believe that the mistakes which have been made by foresters endeavouring to establish and maintain artificial forests result in the main from the departure from natural forest conditions. This paper stresses the danger of adopting the concept of the natural forest as a basis for silviculture. In furthering his arguments the author gives instances where silyicultural practice based on the attributes of the natural forest such as mixed species, mixed ages or the use of native species, may lead to worse rather than better growth.
42601068|The author describes his visit to the mountainous region of Central Java, tells of the volcanoes he saw there and of the vegetation, indigenous and exotic, of the mountain slopes. He went, inter alia, to Soerabaya where he deplores the passing of former glories.
42601390|(1) Many species of the mixed deciduous forest can, as seedlings, survive the usual type of surface forest fire and can live on for years getting burnt back annually. (2) Many species of the mixed deciduous forest in the seedling coppice condition, and possibly as seedlings, can survive the more intense fire caused by felling and burning the overhead cover. (3) In the shade of a number of different forests there is normally on the ground an advance growth of seedling coppice which is at least equal to half plantation (6 ft.  6 in.) density of stocking and is often of a lot higher density. Amongst this seedling coppice valuable species especially teak are often well represented. (4) This advance growth can be helped on to establishment by cutting, burning and subsequent tending. Taungya cultivation can be done for one year without noticeable mortality in the young tree crop. Where taungya cultivation is done regeneration can be established very cheaply. (5) There are crops suitable for soils which will not suit hill paddy and the education of the cultivator to grow these crops could enable taungya to be used for natural regeneration in many places where it is not used now.
42602114|The importance of the fishing industry in the Gold Coast, both from the dietetic and economic viewpoints, is briefly discussed. It is shown that canoes play a vital part in the industry and that, apart from the wood from which the hulls are made, a large number of other forest products are essential, not only for the equipping of these vessels, but for the proper functioning of other phases of the industry.
42600975|Forestry schools in Britain are producing forestry graduates in excess of current demand and without some of the qualifications which are required today. Compulsory practical training before entrance to university, a reduction in the number of forestry schools and the introduction of entrance examinations are necessary to avoid overproduction and to improve the standard of candidates. The importance of English, economics and the basic sciences is stressed, and the introduction of a course designed so that it would be possible to concentrate either on silviculture and management or on wood technology and utilisation is suggested. Finally, the desirability is urged of setting up a board to advise on forestry education in the future.
42599643|The term "working plan" is defined and planners are divided into (1) the orthodox who require detailed maps, enumerations, etc., before special staff can prepare fully detailed plans, and (2) the evolutionists who encourage territorial staffs to develop a gazette notice or a planting scheme to the stage of planning actuallyrequired at the time. The revision of a Uganda plan is reviewed as an example of evolution. The present intensity of tropical African utilization is shown to be about 4 cubic feet an acre a year. The use of large homogeneous compartments to reduce office work in extensive forestry is noted.
42600247|Several accounts of South African forestry have recently appeared in this Journal, in particular those of M. H. Scott and J. S. Beard, which make a detailed description unnecessary. This article will, therefore, be written largely from the standpoint of a private afforestation scheme in the Midlands of Natal with a discussion of silvicultural and other technical and management problems there in the light of recent developments.
42599866|This is the second article from the pen of Major-General Hutson (see Vol. 30, No. 4), who is in charge of Forestry Commission roads. He takes the subject a stage further than he did in his former article and discusses first the value of low cost roads. He goes on to deal with extraction requirements under ten different heads then with various methods of improving the bearing capacity of roads. Next he suggests means of waterproofing roads, touches on principles of design and construction of roads on peat and then deals with the organisation of road work. Foresters will agree wholeheartedly with his conclusion which is roughly that roads are essential to the proper pursuit of efficient forestry.
42601679|In this article the author, a well-known Canadian forest economist, outlines his formula for determining the rental to be charged on forest lands.
42602275|A year of weekly girth measurements on rain-forest trees in Mpanga Research Forest has demonstrated considerable short-term fluctuations correlated with rainfall. The measurements are believed to be accurate to three-hundredths of an inch ( 0.03".). After a year's "calibration" of each tree's behaviour by means of regression of girth increment on rainfall it is hoped to detect reactions to silvicultural treatment during the second year of measurement.
42602307|Douglas fir produces visible flower buds which are carried on the tree for approximately a year before the flowers open in the spring. A larger cone crop results from fall application of nitrogenous fertiliser after the buds are formed. Spring application of nitrate nitrogen, if applied at the correct time, causes the initiation of many more flower buds. The second important point is to apply the nitrate at the time of "flushing" or vegetative bud opening.
42602497|Having pointed out the principle of the autonomy of individual Colonies, Mr. Collier gave a definition of forest resources differentiating between ephemeral or salvage resources and true resources capable of permanent management. He then gave some idea of how a forest estate can be created, paying tribute to the work of the Indian Forest Service in devising machinery for establishment (which in most colonial territories is a right of usufruct only) and administration. In particular he spoke of rights as they affect holders and means of settlement of forest reserves. Next the Forest Adviser spoke of the forest resources of the various regions, the Caribbean, South East Asia, the West Coast of Africa, East and Central Africa and the Mediterranean (with some mention of the true position of the Sahara). He then went on to describe what he considered to be the fundamentals of forest management with Malaya leading in this field, West Africa following and other territories varying and many still in the simpler stages of prohibition. The talk was illustrated by excellent coloured lantern slides in interludes and a discussion followed.
42601993|Mvule (Chlorophora excelsa) is being planted in Lango and Acholi Districts to replace the heavy cut elsewhere in Uganda where conditions may not be suitable for regeneration. It is being under-planted together with other nurse and timber species in Terminalia woodland. This woodland is a stage in a sere of which Mvule is a natural, though later, member; a sere which results in the development of closed high-forest from open cultivated land. The Mvule is raised as striplings in permanent rotational nurseries, and is planted out when 3 years old. It maintains a rate of growth of about 2 feet per year in the first ten years, falling to about 1 foot 3 inches per year at 15 years of age when the rate appears to be steady. The scheme aims at producing a Mvule crop of timber size, mixed with other species, in a rotation provisionally estimated at 100 years. Particular emphasis is laid on the ecology of the plantations and of the vegetation in which they are being established.
42600614|Tropical High-Forest in Uganda appears to be incapable of an annual acre yield of large saw-timber exceeding twenty cubic feet under any polycyclic system. If higher yields are required a monocyclic system is essential, and even then about sixty cubic feet per acre per year seems to be the limit, and something like thirty to forty the best that can be hoped for over wide areas. These figures are believed to apply to the majority of African High-Forest. Such yields impose severe limits on permissible establishment costs. No considerable improvement is possible until thinnings and the smaller sizes are rendered saleable.
42601883|The transportation of logs from the woods to the conversion plant bears important relationships to the total transportation problem which includes all phases of logging from the stump to the market for the derived forest products. In the United States and particularly on the Pacific coast, the trend has been away from railroads towards the use of trucks for log transportation. Important factors in the use of trucks for log transportation are: (1) Size of load. Unit costs tend to decrease with increase in the size of load. (2) Size (diameter) of timber. With small equipment unit costs decrease with increase in diameter. This factor of decreasing importance with increase in the size of trucks. (3) Distance of haul. Unit costs vary in direct ratio to distance. Costs indicate fairly heavy gradients as opposed to light gradients with longer distance of travel. (4) Efficiency of loading equipment. The speed needed in loading has favoured the use of self-mobile, revolving equipment of the power-shovel type in the United States. (5) Road construction and equipment. The intensity of the road system increases with increase in density of stand and with decrease in cost of construction. The tendency in the United States is towards well-constructed roads with good surfacing. The development of a complete logging plan, of which log transportation is but a part, has a complex dependence on engineering, forestry and economics.
42601423|Gold Coast timber exploitation is concentrated in the evergreen, moist and dry deciduous types of forest which together comprise the rain forest. Of the many species occurring therein only about twenty are currently exploited to any extent. The stocking of these latter is very variable, but for practical purposes may be taken as averaging about 80-200 cubic feet of mature merchantable timber per acre in the evergreen and dry deciduous types and from 200-400 cubic feet per acre in the moist deciduous forest. In terms of sustained outturn, these stockings correspond to 4-10 cubic feet per acre per annum in the first two types and from 10-20 cubic feet per acre per annum in the moist deciduous forest. Demands for timber amount to about 5,250,000 cubic feet annually, of which just over half is exported. Exports are 95 per cent Mahogany, mostly in the log. The United States and the United Kingdom together absorb over go per cent of Gold Coast timber exports. Domestic demands are mainly for building, furniture and mining purposes. The annual cut of merchantable timber for all purposes is estimated as about 9,000,000 cubic feet. Standing timber is normally purchased by means of concessions or felling agreements; the former are the only sure means of acquiring a safe title, but are expensive and somewhat cumbersome to take out. Owing to the comparatively narrow range of species utilized, felling is highly selective and dispersed. Extraction is mainly manual in the primary stage and by road or rail in the secondary phase. Road haulage is extensive, but is currently handicapped by lack of suitable vehicles. The bulk of locally produced timber is ultimately moved by rail. The haulage capacity of the railway is at present about 80,000 tons per year, but this is already insufficient to satisfy all demands. The only port with any real facilities for handling timber is Takoradi. Local conversion is to logs and "curls" for export or to lumber. Logs may be squared or left round; the former is the usual practice for the United Kingdom market. Lumber is mostly produced by pit-sawing, but seven commercial mills are also operating as well as various private mills supplying their owners' requirements only. These mills are all of the permanent type. Equipment mostly comprises frame and circular saws, although a few bandmills are in use. Seasoning is generally rudimentary. Air drying is the only method employed, but the practice is not widespread. Considerable expansion of the local timber industry is currently contemplated, particularly as regards saw and veneer milling. This is to be welcomed as leading to more balanced exploitation, but is likely to be limited, at least in its initial stages, by lack of extraction facilities.
42600851|Comparison between the soil properties of a typical Callana podzol in Britain and adjacent sites afforested seventy years earlier showed important differences. Both hardwoods and conifers improved the soil by alleviating poor aeration and increasing the calcium status of the upper horizons. In contrast, bothbut more so the conifersdegraded the soil by increasing the immobilisation of nutrients in the raw humus. Calcium was depleted from the sub-soil, and the removal by the forest cover of substantial amounts of the limited nutrient-capital of the site suggests serious study to ensure continued timber production from such impoverished soils.
42600854|An account is given of the forested country on the east and south of Mount Kinabalu which was explored for the first time by the Royal Society Expedition. Studies of soils, plants and animals were made in connection with the proposal for a national park of Kinabalu. The most exciting discoveries were a new genus of Fagaceae and a small group of rhinoceros surviving at a high altitude.
42600579|Aerial photographs on a scale of 1:10,000 were taken of a virgin forest area in the Essequibo-Mazaruni watershed for experimental purposes. Tree diameter at breast height, measured in the field, is correlated with crown diameter of the same tree, measured on the photographs. A linear relation between these two measurements is established mathematically. The possibilities of volume estimation through crown diameter measurements on aerial photographs are discussed and an indication is given in what vegetation types this method will be most successful.
42600347|We propose in this and later issues of E.F.R. to publish an assessment by Professor Stebbing, of Forestry Research, roughly during the last century, in what has become the British Commonwealth but with Burma, now a non-Commonwealth country, naturally included. Part I in this number starts with an account of the origins of forestry administration in India and Burma commencing with Madras. The first research project noted was by Munro, C. of F. Travancore, in 1837 and concerned the rate of growth of teak. The I.F.S. was formed in 1864, the F.R.I. at Dehra Dun in 1905 and during the last 30 years "has gone from strength to strength". Great Britain is next dealt with. The principal point was the introduction of exotics with little realisation of the economic importance of forestry until World War I. With the formation of the Forestry Commission forestry began to be taken seriously and research commenced. Its course, both the utilisation side, at Princes Risborough, and now at Alice Holt for other branches, is sketched. Next the Imperial Forestry Institute receives comment and its research work is assessed. The Professor goes on to deal with other organisations concerned with forestry research in Great Britain and Northern Ireland receives passing reference.
42602797|Girth above buttresses proved to be the most suitable dimension on which to base an estimate of volume. The introduction of either total or of merchantable length of bole added no useful increase in precision and use of the square of the girth, surprisingly, decreased it.
42601485|The article is derived from observations made by the author on crown diseases in Black Pine during a pathological survey of the forests of Cyprus in 1956. He deals with types of situation with which dying tops are associated, relates this to the stage in the development of the trees, describes at some length the type of stand in which top-dying occurs, discusses the morphology and anatomy of dead tops including the occurrence of injured phloem in crowns of low foliage density. The author's tables illustrate in detail seventeen typical cases of top-dying and appendices describe fully the soil profiles of sites where top-dying was examined.
42600948|This paper gives the functions of diagnostic sampling, outlines the features that are required in a system applicable to tropical high forest, and then assesses the suitability of existing systems for use in Uganda. From this critical review a scheme is developed which appears well suited to local conditions because field technique is relatively simple and analysis of results can be done rapidly. This system may be applicable elsewhere and the local field instructions are therefore given in detail as a suggested basis for trial.
42601427|The Teak plantations of Trinidad are now yielding large quantities of thinnings of 5 and 10 years of age and smaller numbers of thinnings up to 30 years old. All thinnings are potentially marketable from the viewpoint of accessibility, but it is necessary to expand the present markets and discover new ones if effective utilization is to be achieved. The present ways in which the Teak thinnings are being utilized are described according to the age of thinning and the possibility of converting the older thinnings into sawn small dimension stock is referred to.
42599532|Afforestation work in Palestine, carried out during the last two decades, penetrates already in areas with four inches of yearly rainfall (Asluj). Initial success could be observed as regards the following species: Tamaris sp., Zizyphus spina-Christi and Pistacia atlantica. The last, scattered from the north to the semi-desert Negev, is an exceptionally drought-resistant and fast growing tree. The introduced Eucalyptus camaldulensis successfully grows in the arid zone where deep soil and telluric moisture are available. Pinus halepensis, Casuarina equisetifolia, Acacia cyanophylla and Parkinsonia aculeata are other useful exotics of the zone. Initial experiments were successfully carried out by the Forest Research Laboratory, Rehovot, in 1941-1945 with the following exotic species: Prosopis juliflora, Eucalyptus gomphocephala, Eucalyptus cladocalyx, Acacia karroo and others. The prerequisites of a successful afforestation of such arid areas are: (1) The preparation of suitable stock for planting. (2) Choosing the most favourable season for planting in order to increase the chances of rooting and initial growth. Species grown in receptacles should be preferred, therefore, to those grown in beds. By accelerating the process of germination, more success in seeding straight into the area can be obtained with some species. (3) Hoeing and weeding in time, the soil of newly-established plantations. (4) Adaptation of species to exposure and slope.
42600441|In the first part of a two-part article the author first describes the region covered, then the principal species with the amounts of each in the inventory and the annual cuts followed by the distribution of the trade in the decade 1946-55. Land tenure in B.C. is then discussed, licensing arrangements receive comment and a short history of local logging is given, then cruising and falling (felling) are described with some figures of costs. A considerable glossary of terms used in British Columbia logging follows Part II.
42602385|Inoculation experiments have demonstrated: 1. that unequal effects produced by mycorrhiza-formers (Boletus scaber and Amanita muscaria) on young trees (birch and Norway spruce) are associated with the soil conditions under which the plants are growing; 2. that ecological conditions are also responsible for the degree of virulence of the root-disease fungus Rhizoctonia sylvestris in parasitising Scots pine. The results of these experiments strongly imply the need for caution in selecting mycorrhizal fungi for inoculation purposes, and in choosing nursery stock for planting.
42602543|The vegetation and inhabitants of the Dongotona Hills are described. It is shown that the widespread erosion and the drying up of perennial streams have taken place within comparatively recent times, due to a great extent to the invasion by the Dongotona tribe, with their unsuitable methods of cultivation, into the higher hills by pressure of successive waves of migration from the south-east. The rapidity of erosion and its results on the water supply show how swiftly the country can sustain immense damage. The appointment of a team to study the various land uses of the area is suggested.
42601150|The study of hygiene is concerned with that practice, or set of rules which, if followed, will maintain the forest in a state of health. Health is judged as a relative, and not an absolute condition. It may be defined as soundness of body, and the judgment of health is based on a comparison of an existing pattern of development with one which is considered to be normal to the organism. In practical forest management the forest is judged to be adequately healthy if the condition of the trees is such that the objects of management are efficiently achieved. Such achievement demands a certain pattern of development in the forest and therefore a certain degree of health. A species of tree, or of any other organism is, relative to other species, a unity definable essentially by its genetical constitution; it is, however, continuously variable in character within the limits of this constitution. The actual character of a species in development is the resultant of the interaction of the species as a variable with its environment also as a variable. This interaction necessarily results in the development of strains, or races, within the species which are specially suited to particular aspects of the general environment within which the species is distributed. A species of tree, or of any other organism, is thus fixed in terms of a general environment, if it is to remain healthy; but within the limits of this general environment local races or strains develop within the species in reaction to local environmental variations. These strains are fixed in terms of such local variations, if they too are to remain healthy. It follows from this that in terms of character of environment the forest is fixed by the environmental limitations of the strains within its species; moreover it is these strains which constitute the essential units with which the forester has to deal. The geographical movement of species is, thus, permissible providing it does not involve unduly their environmental movement. Finally, the environment of a tree is both living and non-living. The maintenance of health thus demands the fixation of the species, not only in terms of the non-living environment but also with regard to the living. The misplacement of a species of tree may thus take place purely in terms of its living environment with the result that disease develops: but change in non-living environment affects all species; it follows, therefore, that if a species of tree, or any strain within a species is misplaced in terms of a non-living characteristic of environment it will tend also to be misplaced with regard to living environmental factors, the one type of factor within the environment interacting with the other. This is a common experience. The conclusion is that the forest, considered as a collection of trees, is fixed in terms of the environmental needs of these trees. The fundamental basis of silviculture is, thus, an understanding of the environmental needs of tree species considered as collections of strains which generally are similar in character though varying significantly in some points in essential genetical character and therefore in environmental needs.
42600507|The problem of determining the distribution of species and of assessing the volume of standing timber in mixed, uneven-aged tropical forests is discussed. The methods of survey and of recording field data are described. A system for the computation of volumes and the analysis of volume figures by area and species is given, and finally a method of compiling a stock map on which the area can be divided into coupes giving an equal annual yield is described.
42601359|One log when peeled was found to have internal damage by ambrosia beetles, with associated stain. The tree had been attacked when small but had recovered, the tunnels being obliterated. Two species of Platypodidae were responsible, but specimens were too fragmented for identification. It was shown that the attack had not resulted in the rearing of broods, and that the staining was due not to fungi but to gum or resin produced by the tree.
42600248|On the basis of the observations made in 1953, the following technique is indicated for conditions prevailing on the Nyika Plateau : (a) Fresh South African Seed should be sown at the following densities: P. caribaea 1 oz./3 sq. ft P. patula 1 oz./4 sq. ft. P. taeda 1 oz./3 sq. ft. or may be heavier (b) Broadcast seed should be covered with sand as follows: P. caribaea  in. P. patula  in P. taeda  in. (c) To control damping off fungi, the seed beds should be watered with a strong solution of potassium permanganate (1 oz. / 2 gallons water / 4 sq. yards) at time of sowing and at first germination. (d) Overhead shade, at 3-4 inches above the beds, should be used to protect all seedlings at night against frost in May and June. (e) Overhead shade, at 3-6 inches above the beds, should be used to improve the germination of P. patula. P. caribaea and P. taeda should not be shaded. (f) Seedlings should be transplanted 3-5 weeks after germination. (g) To obtain 6-9 inch transplants for planting out in late December, seed should be sown : P. caribaea March P. patula Late December/Early January P. taeda March (h) Against frost, transplants only require shade at night for a few weeks after transplanting. However, shade is required for the minor species P. insignis (P. radiata). (i) One gallon of water is required for 15 sq. ft. of transplant bed. Experimentation indicates that evening watering is preferable, (j) After transplanting, the trees should be root pruned as follows : P. caribaea Once/week P. patula Once/fortnight P. taeda Once/week; if not once/2 months
42601386|The evidence of sampling and observation in Basilan (P.I.) and North Borneo suggests that successful regeneration of dipterocarp forest is attainable after high lead logging.
42600315|Our readers will recall that the British Association meeting at Sheffield in August last devoted one of the K* Section days to Catchment Areas and this session proved most interesting and not a little controversial. As we are fortunate to be publishing in this issue one of the most important papers there read, that of Mr. Bleasdale, we thought that it would serve as a suitable introduction to the subject if we also published a note prepared for the I.U.F.R.O. meeting at Oxford earlier in the year by Mr. M. V. Laurie, who was section chairman at Sheffield. His aim in this note was to assemble the evidence and, in the short bibliography at the end, to quote the available authorities rather than to suggest any solution of the problem. We think that this will serve as a suitable introduction to our readers whose attention is therefore directed in particular to the last paragraph of this paper where certain suggestions are made for further consideration of a problem with which foresters are faced the world over.
42600442|An account is given of trials carried out by the Forestry Commission Research Branch in which Dutch lights, artificial illumination, top and/or bottom heat and special soils were used in attempts to raise up to four crops of usable (over 1 inches tall) Sitka spruce seedlings. The work was carried out during the period 1951-55. The details of yields and heights of seedlings are given for each year. The object of raising four crops of seedlings in one year on the same heated frame was achieved, but difficulties were encountered in "hardening off" seedlings during winter months. It is concluded that by using the techniques described a maximum of more than three crops of seedlings can not be obtained in South-east Scotland without running the serious risk of seedling losses by frost. Using intensive methods is expensive and in view of the low cost of seedling production in Scottish heathland nurseries there is no reason for using this technique on an extensive scale, although there are possibilities for its use in raising seedlings outside the normal season for experimental purposes.
42601323|The environmental conditions under which E. deglupta occurs naturally in New Britain are discussed. Silvicultural characteristics and requirements of the species are outlined. A silvicultural system and policy of management are proposed. Information on growth, yield, major properties and uses of the timber is summarised.
42600141|The use of field characters of forest trees as a basis of identification has hitherto received very little recognition from systematic botanists. The progress in this field has been confined: (1) to suggestions for the standardization of terminology as a basis of record for the ultimate preparation of a Key on the perforated-card system for use in Malaya, and (2) the publication of a simple dichotomous Key for the more important trees of Tobago. The writer has made a close study of field characters particularly of the bark (and blaze) of the wet evergreen forest trees of Ceylon. This study has shown that there is a very definite relationship between certain field characters and the most important families found in wet evergreen forests. Considerable diagnostic and sometimes taxonomic value may be attached to such characters which are, therefore, considered of fundamental importance. These may be summarized as follows: (1) Certain external characters of the stem, viz. the presence of spines or prickles and certain forms of buttresses. (2) Certain external characters of the bark, chiefly the nature of bark dehiscence. (3) Certain internal characters of the bark, chiefly the nature and type of exudation, when present;this feature is considered the most important single field character of taxonomic value. (4) The presence of (resinous) exudation from the wood. (5) The presence of characteristic aromatic or pungent smells from the (cut) bark. (6) Certain distinctive features, mainly associated with colour, of the internal bark tissues. These characters are considered in reference to the families, genera and species in which they occur. Field characters of subsidiary value are also briefly described and their use in identification is indicated.
42602800|In British Honduras mahogany regeneration is rare except on certain sites where the forest has been damaged. Applications of Aldrin to the ground near seedbearers resulted in profuse regeneration and suggest that the rarity of young regeneration is the result of insect attack.
42599695|Following a brief visit to south-west Finland in the late summer of 1947, observations are made on a number of matters of forestry interest, especially to foresters in the British Isles. A brief survey is given of topography, geology and soil, followed by notes on the various forest stands and types and on general silvicultural practice and experimental work connected therewith. Some points of interest in management and utilization are reported. The Finnish organizations for forestry education and for furthering private forestry are described in some detail and certain effects of the last war and the peace treaty are alluded to.
42599864|Mr. Long gave this address in his capacity as Chairman of the Forestry Section at the recent British Association meeting at Liverpool. Describing the history of forestry in the U.K. from the beginning of the 19th century, he goes on to state reasons for the tardy formation of the Forestry Commission and outlines the primary objects of its policy. He endeavours to fit U.K. requirements in timber into the European framework using F.A.O. statistics, correlates F.C. policy with this leading up to the 1943 programme of 5 million acres within 50 years, which should supply 30 per cent of our timber requirements. The implications of the plan are touched on under various headings such as land, labour, species, length of rotation, allocation to private and State enterprise, direct and indirect benefits to various interests. He then goes on to discuss forestry in catchment areas and the amenity value of forests and ends with his estimate of the place of forestry in the national economy.
42602188|This is an American article. Dollars and thousand feet board measure have been converted for easier local comparison. The study is of the smaller type of sawmill such as are found in many places overseas. From the detailed costings to the astounding fact that production per man day is around 90 cubic feet of sawn timber, this article is full of interest. In many cases, overseas millers will undoubtedly find that their costings vary markedly from those given. In very few cases will they reach a figure as high as 90 cubic feet produced per man day. So long as they are below that figure they can be sure that they are not efficient. It is rarely that this Review publishes an article from outside sources: it is pleased to be able to reprint such an outstanding contribution on Anglo-American joint productivity. J. D. Barithwaite.
42602433|The Jos Plateau covers an area of some 1800 square miles and is a picturesque stretch of country characterized by numerous rocky outcrops and imposing hill ranges. The mean altitude is about 4000 feet above sea level. The plateau is well watered with perennial streams eventually flowing into the Niger-Benue drainage system. The climate is pleasant for Europeans although the diurnal variation in temperature is great. The plateau is the centre of the tin mining industry and the cassiterite or "tin stone" is a high-grade concentrate of tin oxide found in alluvial beds at no great depth. Very little forest remains outside forest reserves except perhaps along river banks and the bases of the hill ranges and this is exposed to the annual bush fires that sweep the countryside. The best type of woodland is found on the older granites whereas the younger granites usually carry a crop of knee-high grass. The soil is generally poor and shallow and is quickly converted into a hard impenetrable pan. Extensive stands of pure Borassus occur in places and an outstanding feature of the plateau is the enormous specimens of Canarium found in and around pagan hamlets. A variety of interesting and attractive wild flowers such as orchids and gladioli are found but the fauna of the area is extremely meagre and the small game that does exist is mostly found in the forest reserves. The indigenous population is pagan and probably the most backward people in Nigeria. They are an interesting and virile race, primitive in the extreme and wear no clothes. Before the tin mining industry became established the pagans were purely agriculturists but now they are depending more and more on the industry for their livelihood. Much of their best farming land has been destroyed and now there is evidence of land hunger. Some 215,000 head of Fulani cattle graze on the plateau and the question as to whether over-grazing has contributed to denudation and the spread of erosion is being investigated. The present forest policy aims at establishing fuel plantations, communal forestry areas, the rehabilitation of exhausted farm-land, anti-erosion measures and the control of bush burning. Until now, Cassia siamea, Callitris and eucalypts are the main species being used but experiments are under way to find other suitable species. Some eucalypts show considerable promise, but termites are a nuisance.
42601547|Forestry is compared to agriculture which has changed as a result of two world wars and the slow nature of forestry is emphasised. Where forests are scarce forestry is generally at its best. Exotic trees are often introduced and grow better than indigenous species. Forest production will have to become more efficient with the increase in world population and it will have to keep pace with changes in the way of life of mankind. These things must be remembered in planning for the future. In this respect the forester must emulate the farmer and grow what is wanted. Forestry is becoming an intricate business and foresters must be businesslike. The face of forestry is changing and foresters must consider whether it is changing fast enough and going in the right direction.
42600143|In the following article the writer records his impressions of erosion and torrent control work seen in the French Alps during the course of a study tour in June/July 1952, organised by the French Forestry Service under the auspices of the Forestry Division of the Food and Agriculture Organisation.
42602158|This paper describes an attempt which is being made in Cyprus by several departments of Government to reclaim an area of marshland, most of which lies below sealevel. The marsh has. been drained and partly afforested with eucalyptus, and the most important aim, the elimination of breeding places suitable for the anopheles mosquito, has already been achieved. It seems likely, although by no means certain, that afforestation may be a necessary stage in the reclamation of the marsh to a higher form of land use. However, the soil in many places is very rich with ample water near the surface even in summer and, in spite of the high returns which eucalyptus forest can give on land of this sort, it seems probable that the foresters and agriculturists may have to reach some compromise later on. The principal difficulties so far encountered have been opposition from the local population, waterlogging of the soil even after drainage, regrowth of marsh vegetation and surface salinity in certain areas.
42602652|Research into the application of the Tropical Shelterwood System is described; also its present technique. Examples are given of the research records kept. The history of the first seven years of a coupe in the Bobiri Forest Reserve is given. Some conclusions regarding the application of the Tropical Shelterwood System are discussed.
42602061|The pattern of inlay bordering the Prime Minister's Conference Table is made up of woods from all parts of the British Commonwealth, which serve as a symbol of the ties of friendship existing among the British peoples.
42600350|The distribution in East Africa and the host plants of two species of Symmerus are discussed. A case of damage to trees of Olea welwitschii in Tanganyika by S. montanus is briefly described: large and vigorous trees were found on felling and conversion to have the internal wood heavily tunnelled by Ambrosia Beetles although the outer wood was perfectly sound. An analogous case was described by Duffy (Vol. 35, p. 198) from West Africa where logs of Triplochiton scleroxylon, apparently sound externally, were found to have been pin-holed internally by Symmerus tuberculatus Chap. It is considered highly probable that the attack in the case of O. welwitschii was caused by a forest fire temporarily weakening the trees which however recovered, the pin-holed wood being covered in due course by new growth.
42601487|The stocking of trees over "exploitable" girth limits on some 2,000 acres in 1955/58 has been compared with the stocking on the same area 9 years earlier, taking fellings in the intervening period into account. By the use of stock maps and a field check the reasons for differences between nett ingrowth and actual recruitment into this size class have been determined. It is suggested that comparisons of this nature coupled with an examination of the size class distribution from 1 ft. girth up to the exploitable limit and sampling to determine the progress of regeneration and seedlings would provide an efficient way of controlling selection fellings to give a sustained yield or to ensure sufficient mother trees in an area due for conversion while liquidating present mature stock. Difficulties in accurate methods of girthing are largely nullified when the problem of existing mature trees surplus to requirements for a working stock are considered.
42601064|Part I provided a brief account of the general zonation of vegetation in the Corsican mountains and a fuller treatment of environmental conditions in the Corsican pine forests. In the present account some measurements of height and girth in even-aged stands on good sites in the forests of Atone and Valdo-niello are compared with similar sets of measurements previously reported. Substantial areas of approximately even aged (often 150/200 years) high forest were noted, but a Selection System of management was adopted some years ago in place of the Shelterwood System formerly practised. The reasons for the long rotation of 300 years are briefly considered and the problems of Corsican pine regeneration in relation to physiographic factors, method of management and local competition from beech, silver fir and bracken are discussed. Some seed source stands near the forest of Valdo-niello are referred to and the significance of provenance differences in the seed introduced into Britain is reviewed in relation to the health of Corsican pine on upland sites, where it might be supposed that a provenance from high altitude would prove best accommodated.
42601546|The writer's botanical studies in British Honduras included an examination of the native species of pine. One of these, P. caribaea, is a tree of increasing economic importance, whilst the presence of a second species, P. oocarpa var. ochoterenai, is not generally known, and up to now its identity has been uncertain. In this brief account, taxonomic notes on both species are followed by some observations on the variation, pathology, and ecology, of P. caribaea.
42599642|The note represents an attempt to describe briefly the state of the land and the relics of forest surviving in Transjordan to-day. Whilst the writer has never actually served in Transjordan, he has had an opportunity to travel extensively through the country, both when on leave from the Western Desert Army in 1942 and again in 1945-46 when serving as a forest inspector in the Forest Service of the neighbouring country of Palestine. Illustrating the note are a map and a number of photographs. After discussing the geographical position of Transjordan and its affinity to the neighbouring Middle East lands, a more detailed description is given of that part of the territory in which forests are still actually to be found. Some attention is given to the effect which over long ages man and his activities have had on the original vegetative cover of the country. Attention is drawn to the manner in which this country, lying close to the Syrian Desert, has slowly but surely been changed from a potentially smiling land of carefully terraced fields, orchards and vineyards, with forests on the higher and rougher hills, to a goat-infested semi-desert supporting but a fraction of the population which, with correct treatment, it could accommodate. Mention is made of the steps which have been taken to deal with the very unsatisfactory state of affairs since the arrival of British officials after the First World War. An account is given of the constitution and aims of the present Forestry Service, which unfortunately only constitutes a small section of the larger department of Lands and Surveys. Finally come descriptions of the two remaining forest areas, that in the mountains of Edom to the south and that, in the hills of Gilead, towards the valley of the Yarmuk in the north. The forests of the Gilead region are of a type once common in Palestine, with species of Quercus and Pistacia predominating and a ground flora rich in Labiates. The Edom forests are of quite another kind, the main species being a Juniperus and Pistacia atlantica. Of special interest here is an old group of Cupressus sempervirens near Tafile, the only natural trees of this species known to be growing in the country. Very little literature has so far been published on the flora of Transjordan and at the end a list of publications of possible interest is given.
42598934|The organization of the Forest Service, under Gifford Pinchot in the administration of President Theodore Roosevelt, and the transfer of the national forests to that Service, mark the beginning of the turning point between wasteful exploitation and conservation of natural resources in the United States. The revenue from the national forests was over $15,000,000 (3,750,000) in 1944, most coming from sales of timber, followed by fees from grazing, with lesser amounts from rentals for various land uses. The work of the Forest Service falls under three main headings : (1) administration of the national forests; (2) research; and (3) encouragement of private forestry. Under (1), protection against fire takes precedence, and has been highly developed. Timber is sold standing, and is managed on a sustained yield basis and trees are marked for cutting. The cost of the operation is carefully calculated and, after adding a fair amount for the operator's profit, is deducted from the selling price of the final product to get the minimum figure which will be accepted for the timber. Grazing, mostly of cattle and sheep, and chiefly in the west, is next to timber in importance, there being 10,000,000 head yearly on the national forests. Research is carried on vigorously under several broad subjects: forest management and protection, forest influences, utilization of forest products, management and vegetation of range lands, forest economics, and the forest survey. Valuable information has been obtained in all lines, the advances made in wood technology at the Forest Products Laboratory in Madison, Wisconsin, being especially noteworthy. Under encouragement of private forestry, the Forest Service co-operates with the States in fire protection, granting the States funds not exceeding the amount spent for the purpose by the States, in return for which it exercises enough supervision over the States' organizations to ensure efficient use of the funds. The Forest Service also advises private owners. It proposes a four-point programme: (1) expansion of public aid to private owners in protection against fire, insects and disease, and in research; (2) sufficient public regulation of cutting on private lands to stop deterioration and keep the land reasonably productive; (3) purchase by the States, communities and the Federal Government of forest lands which cannot be kept productive, or adequately protected; and (4) a comprehensive post-war national programme of forestry.
42601062|A brief history of forestry in Mauritius is outlined. Indian Ocean cyclones are dealt with in general and a brief account of the two recent (1960) severe cyclones is given, with a description of damage done to exotic plantations. Finally, the influence of major cyclones on the management and silviculture of the principal exotic species is discussed.
42600472|Occurrence of mycorrhizal infection in various eucalypts from different localities is recorded and a case of mycorrhiza-formation by a Scleroderma species in Eucalyptus gomphocephala described. Observational data and early results of some preliminary pot-culture experiments have so far not supported the assumption that, in their development, certain systematic groups of Eucalyptus are unequally dependent on mycorrhizal infection.
42601152|The pine forests are described. It is shown that the mature volume of wood will be converted to lumber in twenty years and that there will be a drop in available supplies if immediate steps are not taken to introduce more intensive fire protection and form larger plantations.
42601640|Field studies of Armillaria Root Rot in Kenya pine plantations made between 1953 and 1959 have shown that the disease is most frequent and severe in sites following Montane Rain Forest and less so following Montane Conifer Forest. This is related to the frequency of occurrence of Armillaria mellea in these forests. Eucalyptus and cypress have been found to carry A. mellea and give rise to infections in subsequent pine plantings. A peak of infection was found in plantations of about five years of age, after which it decreased due to increasing resistance of the host. Pinus elliottii v. elliottii was found more susceptible to attack than P. radiata and P. patula.
42602212|The coastal plain of the Somaliland Protectorate presents a very difficult environment. One economically valuable species found there is the tree Conocarpus lancifolius Engl. which was extensively used in the building of the Arab "dhow". Its local name is damas. The species grows naturally in the valleys where there are running streams. It has been used in plantations on the coast near Berbera where there is brackish ground water at five feet, and has grown better than the other species tried. Its advantages as a plantation species in extremely arid areas are enumerated.
42600576|"Operation Firestop" was a one-year study designed to explore certain aspects of mass-fire behaviour, carried out in California in 1954, as a preliminary to the formation of a National fire defence plan for wartime conditions in the U.S.A. The movement of fire in rugged topography, fire calibration, the use of chemicals in fire fighting and techniques of application were inter alia investigated. It was concluded that chemical fire retardants, such as sodium calcium borate can be effectively used as fire suppressants, in the construction of fire lines and in controlled burning; and that helicopters provide the answer to many problems of hose-laying and equipment transport in difficult terrain. Studies of fire calibration and wind movement were hampered by inadequate instrumentation, but sufficient was learned to establish the need for further work on similar lines.
42602647|After introductory remarks the author describes water relations under eight headsxerophyty and xeromorphy, water absorption, soil moisture, transpiration, root system, drought resistance, and water requirements and conservation. He appends a bibliography with twenty-eight items, mostly American, referring to work extending from 1919 to 1952.
42602855|Growth habits affecting the regeneration of eucalypts are described. Factors discussed include leaf production, the importance of advance growth, the relative significance of light and moisture, biological phenomena in a gap in the forest, the sequence of weeds following fire, the response of different species after crown fires, and the disintegration of slash. The effect of the shortening of the trunk during growth is briefly dealt with, and suggestions are made as to the future structure and yield of forests managed under the Group Selection System.
42599646|The author describes the various rural and cottage industries of the Gold Coast, most of which have some relation with the forest or forest productsbrewing, pit-sawing, roofing, wood carving, weaving of mats, cloth and silk, rubber collection, pottery and bee-keeping.
42601879|An improved system of extraction by cable of timber from mountain slopes and difficult terrain has been developed in Switzerland. The system is simple to install and can be operated by four men.
42600314|The author, in preparation for the 7th British Commonwealth Forestry Conference, attempts in two articles to summarise what has gone before. In the first, he deals with the first three Conferences held in 1920, 1923 and 1928. The first was in the United Kingdom with 43 delegates from 17 territories. Perhaps the resolutions passed best reflect the progress made in the years. The first three dealt with Policy, Resources, and Constitution and Status and were to be reaffirmed in only slightly modified or expanded form by successive Conferences. Others dealt with Forest Industries, Publicity, Distribution of Forest Plants, Terminology, and Trade Nomenclature, Research, Education and the Bureau. Lord Robinson, as he subsequently became, summarised the findings of the Conference in Vol. I of the E.F.J. He considered that two conclusions could be drawn. First, any advance in Empire Forestry would be through "Increasing intensive cultivation of accessible and the better exploitation of inaccessible areas" and he considered that, although the start had been slow, "The Forestry Movement was gaining momentum". The Second Conference was in Canada in 1923, was longer in duration, travelled farther, inevitably, and was attended by roughly 50 per cent more delegates, though fewer came from the Colonies. The resolutions followed the original pattern and the first three were consolidated into one composite resolution. Next came one on Softwood Resources, followed by others on Education (the I.F.I, in particular advanced a stage further), and one commending the E.F.A. As was to become the custom, resolutions concerning the Conference country were passed; Silviculture, insect and fire damage in Canada were dealt with. Finally, a strong resolution on shifting cultivation was adopted. As to cover in the E.F.J., as it then was, Professor Troup wrote about the tours connected with the Conference and Mr. A. C. Forbes contributed an appreciation of Canadian forest conditions. The Third Conference went to Australia and New Zealand in 1928, was still longer in duration, was attended by over a hundred delegates and tours were even more extensive. Professor Troup again dealt with the tours in the E.F.J. The first resolution reaffirmed those of the previous conferences, but went on to define under eight heads the essentials of a sound forest policy. (This resolution was to have far-reaching future effects.) The next resolution concerned the state of forestry in Australia and New Zealand and had addenda by a trade representative, Mr. J. Richardson, on the state of the timber trade in the two Dominions. Next came a resolution on Forestry Education, first of all with the I.F.I, now in being, and then with the state of education in forestry in the two Dominions. Then followed one on "Forest Technique" which concerned desirable measures of forest management. There was a certain amount of hedging on the Bureau, due to financial stringency no doubt, but the next urged closer liaison between the various research laboratories. Then came valuable resolutions on Exotics, on Technical Terms and on Standard Trade Names. All were to bear future fruit in good measure.
42600852|Natural regeneration of white spruce (Picea glauca) in the spruce-aspen stands of the Mixedwood Section in Alberta is planned. Currently, a 2-cut uniform shelterwood system with the seedbed scarification following the first cut is being applied to provide a white spruce seed source and conditions suitable for the successful establishment of the seedlings. This system is discussed in the light of the factors influencing reproduction of the commercially important spruce. In conclusion certain advantages of the system are enumerated.
42602387|A curious structure in the gallery of a Platypodid, Doliopygus subditivus Schedl. and the pupal chambers of a weevil, Scolytoproctus schaumi Fst. are figured and briefly described.
42600313|As the best possible summary of what was a spirited, and in parts a lighthearted discussion, we cannot do better than refer readers to that already made by Mr. A. P. Long, the newly-appointed President of the Society of Foresters of Great Britain when he said, "Some form of plan was necessary, but there was not general agreement as to the form" and that "In the course of the evolution of forestry in Great Britain something would come out in the wash". Professor Mobbs opened the discussion and made out a strong case for the orthodox, though not too detailed, Working Plan deriving from Indian practice and as taught, and practised, at Bangor. Mr. J. A. B. Macdonald was sceptical and affected to despise the Classical W. P. as old-fashioned, cramping, good perhaps for vast forestry charges where trained staff was scarce and areas supervised large but unsuited to the infinitely variable forests of Scotland and North England. Mr. Hiley commended the work of Dr. Craib in South Africa but was against W. P.' s because he did not know enough. Professor Champion on the other hand was for them with the proviso of frequent revision and never too great elaboration. Many contributed to the discussion pro and con and the Chairman summed up as already stated.
42600251|Effects of mulching on the development of mycorrhizal fungi are recorded. From field observations and results of pot-cultures it would appear that stimulation of mycelial growth and promotion of sporophore formation are brought about as the result of the new conditions created by the mulched tree, but not by the mulch alone.
42602540|Technical collaboration between the forest services of British, Dutch and French Guiana has been established, and an account is given of forestry work in Dutch Guiana. The Forest Service has been re-established for only two years, and improvement of control of exploitation and revenue collection is still an important phase of work. Timber valuation survey technique is described and notes given on silvicultural and botanical work. Timber exports in the past have largely been in the form of round logs, but with the establishment of new sawmills and a plywood factory, there has been a substantial increase in exports of processed timber.
42602313|This paper describes the enumeration of the growing stock and the estimation of the current annual increment at Thetford Forest in the course of a working plan survey. The use of an electronic digital computer to process the field data is briefly explained. The basal areas to be left standing after thinning at various top heights were prescribed in the form of basal area/top height curves for the more important species and the future thinning production was estimated, taking into account current basal area stocking, estimated future increment and prescribed basal areas to be left after thinning. The cost of the inventory is given and an estimate made of the saving in cost resulting from the use of the electronic computer.
42600344|A gap of seven years 1928-35 separates the third and fourth conferences. This period covered the depression, which was reflected in the numbers attending63 from 19 Territoriesalthough African countries, naturally, were well repre sented. The Empire Forestry Review covered the Conference in an illustrated article by E. A. Garland. Tours were to Natal, Zululand, the Kruger National Park, the Eastern Transvaal, the Cape and to the Eastern Province including Kynsna. Eucalypts and pine plantations with some private wattle growing were seen. Conference sessions were held at Durban, Pietermaritzburg, Pretoria and Capetown. The Conference was addressed by the Rt. Hon. J. C. Smuts. Emphasis was mainly on afforestation and conservation, with particular stress on water conservation. In the eleven resolutions the Policy Statement was fortified, while that on Forest Influences was strengthened. Craib's pruning theories were treated with reserve except for their application to wattle. The setting aside of areas of primeval forest for complete protection was advocated, as was the use of forest in the control of Trypanosomiasis. A still larger gap of twelve years, 1935-1947, and a world war, separated the 4th and 5th Conferences. Close on 120 delegates and guests attended the opening session in London before a short tour, based on Cambridge, was undertaken of the Forestry Commission's forests in East Anglia and a private forest at Boughton in Northamptonshire. The Conference returned to London for a week before setting out on the long tour of the Border forests, then through Edinburgh, to Muir-of-Ord for the Black Isle, back to Inverness for Darnaway and Culbin, returning to Oxford. Short meetings there were followed by the final sessions in London, where Dr. Craib's extended proposals for wide planting, numerical thinnings and a short rotation for pines, with the Forestry Commission's apparent steady refusal to adopt formal working plans were the highlights. Resolutions, fourteen in number, advocated a return to normality after necessary war-time aberrations, but advances, resulting from the war, were in the advocacy of more aerial photography and a call for support for international organisations, like F.A.O. There was a special presentation ceremony for delegates in Buckingham Palace. The 6th Conference assembled in Canada at Ottawa on the 11th August, 1952, 110 delegates and guests attending. After preliminary sessions at the capital, a tour of Quebec was made where a rangers' school, Laval University, and pulp and paper research organisations were seen, followed by a visit to Petawawa Research Station and to the Algonquin Park in Ontario, with a digression to the Niagara Falls. The main session was marred by the sudden tragic death of Lord Robinson, to whom tribute was paid at a special session. A long agenda was dealt with expeditiously; committees were streamlined to five and resolutions were in consequence reduced to eleven. The need for sustained yield forestry was stressed in several of the resolutions with as complete preliminary reconnaissance by air as possible. The reconciliation of management with protection against fire, insects and disease was emphasised, as was the need for more consultation, national as well as international, in measures of fuller utilisation. The usual formal resolutions were passed regarding various organisations, such as the Bureau, and the Empire Forestry Association (in particular re the Terminology). One unique feature of the proceedings was the first meeting outside the U.K. of the Empire Forestry Association, a cordial and useful meeting. Twenty-eight delegates made a post-conference tour of the Prairie Provinces and British Columbia. This was most interesting and instructive, but there is not space to describe it in this article. It was dealt with fully in the Empire Forestry Review by Mr. Blanford, who was E.F.A. representative at the Conference.
42601716|Part I.24th August to 1st September, 1947. The period was spent with a Department of Natural Resources Survey party on the north-west coast of Trinity Bay. The main work was a survey of the local timber resources. Some of the few sample plots in Newfoundland were also visited. Part II. 1st September to 14th September, 1947. The Anglo-Newfoundland Company limits were visited, particularly the Badger Division, which was stated to be a typical forest area owned by the company. Some time was also spent with a Regeneration Survey party of the Anglo-Bowaters Silvicultural Research Division.
42602796|The New Zealand Forest Service sent the authors to Mexico in 1959 to collect seeds of Mexican conifers for species and provenance trials. Eighty-eight seedlots were collected, representing thirty-four species and 124 1b. of seed. Twelve provenances were collected of Pinus pseudostrobus, ten of Pinus montezumae, and four or more provenances of eight other species. The problems inherent in seed collection in Mexico are discussed and the technique and practical experience of the operation are described.
42599531|A new technique of thinning has been developed in the twenty-year-old plantations of Scots and Corsican Pines, established by the Forestry Commission at Thetford Chase in East Anglia. It is known as line-thinning, and consists in the removal of one or more lines of trees at regular intervals throughout the plantation. It has certain advantages over normal selective thinning, in that it lessens costs of selection, felling, and extraction of produce, and also provides access routes for fire protection, but it is only suitable for the first thinning of a series, subsequent thinnings being on a selective basis. The main drawback of line thinning is that it removes a proportion of potential final crop trees. This difficulty has been investigated experimentally, and it is found that, where every third row of trees is removed, the ratio of potential final crop trees to the desirable number may vary from 5.9:1 to 1.2:1. This ratio is termed the "selection factor", and its application in deciding the intensity at which line thinning may be carried out, if at all, is discussed.
42600115|Among the 200 species of pines growing naturally in the northern hemisphere, the Aleppo is distinguished by the fact that it is xerophytic: it grows well not only on limestone formation in its habitat but also in semi-arid or desert regions. Properly selected, planted and thinned, the Aleppo-pine shows a high survival rate and good development without irrigation in regions with as little as 14 in. annual rainfall, provided distribution is fairly even. Minimal irrigation for two to three years after planting will ensure success on the edge of desert areas. This tree is highly adaptable to various types of soils, especially to porous soils, and changes its root system and shape to fit the environment; it succeeds under ecological conditions too poor for most other pines. Proper spacing is essential to optimal development, density should conform to the ecological conditions, ranging from about 2 m. x 2 m. in the natural habitat to 3 m. x 3 m. or even 5 m. x 5 m. in areas where annual rainfall is less than 8 inches. Thinning practices are of the utmost importance. Only suppressed or partially suppressed trees should be removed in the first thinnings between the ages of 10-30 years. Sub- and co-dominants should be removed after 20-30 years in order to encourage girth increment. Too-wide spacing, or excessive thinning, results in over-branching before the forest canopy is complete, and in the twisted trunks so often found in the solitary Aleppo. Experiments during the past 20 years have shown that where proper treatment and density is maintained, the mean height-curve of the Aleppo-pine is stable and is characteristic of this tree. Mean height-curves obtained from measurements of sample plots in 60 forests were of the same shape in all cases where normal conditions prevailed. This curve is diagnostic not only of biometrical development, but of the physiological, light-demanding character of the species, and of site quality as well. The more accurate mean-height curves obtained by the methods outlined in this paper may also be diagnostic for other speciesalthough the shape of the curve will vary with different species. Once the normal curve is established for a species, it may serve as a prognosis of the forest's value: a normal curve during the early years is a sure indication that there will be a maximum number of trees in the higher girth classes.
42601677|The reasons for writing this article are to put forward arguments against any heavy initial expense on the lay-out and construction of forest roads : in favour of an initial low standard of construction, the grade of road being improved later as circumstances warrant : and to emphasize the possibilities of what I have termed "earth" roads. Such roads made from the natural soil in the various localities have, perforce, had to stand up to quite heavy traffic conditions in severe climatic conditions in various parts of the world. What will be the intention in discussing the construction and maintenance of earth roads is to emphasize the necessity of an adequate drainage scheme for the sub-grade, for the road-base and for the road surface itself. To obtain the optimum results the road-base must be well consolidated, preferably by rolling, the road must be given an ample camber and the road surface must be given as wearing and waterproof a surface as funds and local conditions permit.
42602684|The interrelation of the American and Canadian timber industries makes it necessary to discuss them together when dealing with grading. The history of grading from the mid-19th century is sketched and early rules are deemed to bear little relation to the complicated structure of grading now obtaining for instance on the West Coast where frequent overhaul of regulations has taken place leading to the three separate but closely related systems at present in force on the Pacific Coast. These are described. Lumber can be graded into six classes according to use. For example, Douglas Fir Grades have the following divisions: Clear, Construction, Structural, Industrial and Railway and Material Grades. Hemlock, Spruce and Cedar grades follow roughly the same pattern. Then there is the "R" list drawn up to meet the requirements of the export markets. General notes and definitions are given. A few Douglas Fir grades taken at random are quoted in full including those for Flooring and Shipdecking. Hemlock and spruce grades are similarly dealt with. Some notes follow on Box Lumber, Mining Timber, grades of Cutting and of Pieces, with final notes on special Wall Core Stock of Cedar, and finally the author deals with Stress grades. The complexity of grading receives comment but the conclusion is that the rules are competently enforced and have been the result of much thought, and require not only dexterity but also knowledge in their enforcement.
42602110|Describes the forests of Persia, more especially those on the northern slopes of the Elburz Mountains going down to the Caspian Sea. Some estimate is given of the extent, floristic composition, stocking and commercial possibilities of these littleknown forests. Brief notes are given on the very primitive exploitation and utilization of timber and other forest products, and of the ownership of the forest areas. The article closes with a description of the inhabitants and the fauna of the region.
42600946|Sukumaland, its Forest Reserves and Plantations, and its soils, are described and discussed in relation to the chronic shortage of building poles and firewood. A remedy to overcome this shortage is to grow Eucalyptus trees on mbuga soils which are the only remaining large areas of land now available for plantations. The results of the previous attempts to establish trees on mbugas have been inconclusive due to the action of many adverse factors. These adverse factors are enumerated. A successful investigation was completed within Mayla charged to overcome them by use of agricultural machinery. It is concluded that it is possible to grow certain species of Eucalyptus economically on mbuga soils provided that many of the operations are done by machinery. The necessary machinery is described and costed. The method of establishment and management of a large Eucalyptus plantation is discussed.
42600505|While recent British writings on extraction economics have rightly drawn attention to reductions in cost arising from road construction, little consideration has been given to the calculation of the optimum density required. Physical factors may make large differences to the optimum densities for different conditions of forest where the costs of road construction and off-the-road haul and volumes to be extracted vary independently. Future changes in the relations between these variables must also be taken into account. The derivation of a formula showing optimum road densities is given for the "going concern" case. It is clear that if the value of produce at roadside exceeds the costs of fellings and extraction, so that extraction is considered desirable, then the problem is solely one of minimising transport costs, and confusion can only result if considerations of the profitability of growing trees are invoked.
42600346|After fraternal greetings from the T.D.A. and T.T.F. of the United Kingdom, Sir Stuart outlined the history, aims and objects of the former body. He stressed the versatility of wood and the fact that given sound management it was selfperpetuating. During the last war softwood timber was in restricted supply, which led to great advances in the use of substitute materials and, in consequence, considerable investment in their production. Metals took the place of wood in structural engineering, in use as roofing and flooring materials, and in many other fields. In the future, thanks to the T.D.A., there is certain to be great demand for wood in farm buildings (400 million value in the next 10 years is estimated), and glued lamination is another subject for investigation. Propaganda in all modern media is necessary if timber is to keep its place. The application of lessons learned in the U.K. to Australian conditions then received mention, as did the need for sound utilisation. Sir Stuart then spoke of the recently-formed U.K. Institute of Wood Technology, and ended with a suggestion that there should be a Commonwealth Timber Development Association, with meetings possibly coinciding with the quinquennial Forestry Conferences. A four-fold programme was mooted covering personal and professional ties, associations in all countries of the Empire and Commonwealth, international co-operation in research, design, and in other spheres and finally a Commonwealth bulletin.
42600578|Although some of the older woodlands and estate policies are sited on productive lowland soils, the extensive post-war afforestation programme in Scotland is being carried out on the poorer upland heath soils and the deep peats, on both of which special methods of ground preparation are necessary. On peat, drainage is essential, while on the mineral soils impeded drainage, iron pans, and impervious layers may restrict the spread of tree roots. These physical obstacles are easily recognised in the field, and may be successfully overcome by the use of modern heavy ploughing equipment. Chemical deficiencies in the soil are not so easy to detect, but the application of phosphate is now a routine procedure on many of the poorer soils, and particularly on the peats, and has resulted in the successful establishment of trees on all but the worst sites. Present work on forest soil at the Macaulay Institute includes the application of other fertilisers, particularly nitrogen, to older trees, a search for slower-acting forms of nitrogen and potash than the common agricultural fertilisers, and a study of the effects of the new forests on the soils.
42602499|The nomadic Somali are dependent upon the Acacias to feed their stock and supply many of their own needs. The country, rising from sea level to over 7000 feet, has few resources other than precarious grazing for the camels, goats, and sheep which form almost the only wealth of the people. Acacias provide the framework of the portable houses, charcoal, rope, browse, fencing, and numerous other necessities. This leads to enormous pressure on the vegetation, which is not at present holding its own. Unless a system of pasture management is introduced the grazing will continue to deteriorate.
42602824|An example of the successful artificial regeneration of Eucalyptus in North-East Rhodesia is described. The history behind the establishment of Eucalyptus in the area is given, including the basis of early methods and current practice. The system is based on the native "Chitimene" method of agriculture which involves the cutting, stacking and burning of indigenous bush, and the sowing of seed in the resultant ash accumulations. Advantages and disadvantages of the modified technique are discussed, together with the possible effects of both fire and ash on the soil complex. Some suggestions are made as to the possible application of the method in comparable areas of Central and East Africa where difficulties have been experienced in establishing exotic species by natural regeneration or other means. There is a short bibliography.
42601683|Statistics and data are given on land and forest area, climate, growth rates of exotic tree species, and soils. General problems of afforestation and artificial regeneration in Malaya and current research programmes are discussed. Nursery and planting experience with the following species are described : Eucalyptus deglupta Blume, E. robusta Sm., E. alba Reinw. ex Blume*; and other Eucalyptus species, Swietenia macrophylla King, Gmelina arborea Roxb., Shorea gysbertsiana Burk., Hymenaea courbaril L., Eusideroxylon zwageri Teysm. ex Binn., Pinus insularis Endl., Tec tona grandis Linn., and Albizzia falcata Back. The timber quality, stem form, and rate of growth of many indigenous tree species leaves little to be desired. Certain exotics are likely to prove useful for afforestation of sites where the micro-climate is unsuited to Malayan high forest forms, but would need to be outstanding in timber quality, rate of growth, or ease of establishment, to be introduced in productive forest in place of indigenous species of which natural regeneration can be successfully and economically established.
42600316|A brief review is given of the possible influences of forests on the water resources of an area, on the basis of a table due to Grunow. Fog-drip, erosion and sediment load, and ground storage are selected as topics for discussion. Divergent opinions about the water-losses caused by evapo-transpiration are next discussed as an introduction to the physical approach to the problem. Penman's work, combining the aerodynamic and heat balance methods of estimating evapo-transpiration, is taken as probably the most useful for hydrological purposes, and suggestions are made regarding slight (though perhaps laborious) modifications which may be necessary in applying this work to hilly country. The effects of the afforestation of catchment areas are then considered, the conclusion being that though the average effect over a wide area is likely to be small, there may be local variations from the average, either as excessive losses due to enhanced evapo-transpiration, or as gains due to fog-drip. The larger variations in either sense are likely to be concentrated in relatively small areas, with compensating effects spread over much bigger areas downwind. If the validity of this speculation can be established by a series of experiments, there appears to be a possibility of zoning different species of trees and other vegetation within a catchment area, to minimise the more serious local losses, make use of the local gains, and produce a resultant advantageous effect.
42600319|From the list of data compiled, it would appear that all forest trees are potential mycorrhiza-formers. Observations on occurrence, distribution, and types of infection, point to a great elasticity of the fungal-root partnership.
42602381|Continuing his note on forestry research in the various parts of the British Commonwealth of Nations, Professor Stebbing in Part II deals with outstanding items of investigations into forestry problems in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. In Canada he selects for comment the origins of concerted research there, how the various elements in the local economy have come together to share their problems and the scope of their investigations. In Australia he deals with the early background of forest destruction, its consequences in flood and fire, erosion and land deterioration, then he sketches in briefly the concerted measures taken to overcome these evil consequences. In New Zealand he briefly records the measures of reafforestation which have led to the present vast areas of coniferous plantations, mainly P. radiata. He records the consequences in pests and diseases and the measures which are being taken to combat these. In South Africa he tells of early research into the indigenous forest remnants at Kynsna, of subsequent introductions of conifers and of wattles. He ends with an outline of the measures taken for forestry research and education in the Union. Very short and therefore necessarily incomplete notes on the forestry position in Ceylon and Ghana complete the "Dominions" section.
42602574|An account is given of an investigation into the "quality", as measured by specific gravity, of Sitka spruce from six plantations in Great Britain. Measurements of specific gravity were made on successive annular samples, each comprising five growth rings, at various heights and from a number of trees. Within the tree, specific gravity tended to be high near the pith, fell to a minimum about 15-20 rings from the pith and then increased steadily to the cambium layer. This pattern occurred in every tree examined, from each site. Strength in compression parallel to the grain was generally proportional to specific gravity with the addition of a superimposed trend of increasing specific strength from pith to cambium, so that the high-density material at the pith did not have correspondingly high strength. The specific gravity of the wood accruing at a uniform age of 30 years is directly related to the latitude of growth, the heaviest wood being from trees in southern England and the lightest from trees in northern Scotland.
42602312|This is itself a summary of the Inter-African Conference on hydrology held at Nairobi in January 1961. Many papers were submitted and addresses made from which discussions ensued. The meeting wound up with excursions. Sessions were devoted to hydrology, radiation and precipitation measurements, ground water movement and availability and the hydrology of lakes, swamps and rivers. Although many of the papers were highly specialised the sessions on precipitation, streamflow and catchment areas contained much of value to the forester in the tropics, particularly those concerned with open woodlands in Central and East Africa.
42600855|Following experimental work carried out in 1951-52 by the Forest Research Institute, 14,400 acres of Pinus radiata have been treated with phosphate fertilisers in the Auckland Conservancy. Aerial application by the New Zealand Forest Service commenced in 1955 and has been confined almost exclusively to 25-30-year-old stands which had declined in vigour from age 10-12 years. The main fertiliser used has been superphosphate at a rate of 5 cwt. per acre, the average total cost amounting to 3 10s. per acre. In addition a private company has topdressed 3,900 acres. The response has been such that the addition of fertilisers by aeroplane is an accepted tool of management for radiata pine on phosphate deficient soils, although much has yet to be learnt concerning the time, optimum rate and frequency of application, and the benefits to be obtained by including other nutrients.
42601384|Mr. Robertson deals in his article with the history of veneers, and the need for such treatment. He gives some data on how they are prepared, how cut or peeled, how dried and trimmed. He ends with valuable advice as to selection and specifications when ordering veneered timber.
42602464|Before leaving Great Britain for Canada, D. N. Paterson was asked by a few foresters to present any information on exotic species currently being established, with a view to providing a guide to further silviculture and management in Britain. This article attempts to analyse certain characters of the virgin spruce-balsam forest in the Interior of British Columbia. As a forester with the Surveys Division of the British Columbia Forest Service, the author's work and observations span from the B. C.-Yukon border to the South Okanagan.
42599699|This brief account replaces a much fuller account submitted during the late war which has been spurlos versunken. It gives an account of the growth of a technique which has proved successful in establishing a dense scrub cover on practically pure sand, resulting in the invasion of a forest soil, with the possibility of even more valuable crops being raised in the future.
42600616|Illustrations are presented which show the type of development in depth of the central part of the root systems of either E. camaldulensis, or E. gomphocephala, in soils in Cyprus on which trees have suffered from gum vein development, infestation by Phoracantha semipunctata, the longhorn beetle, or from drought. It is suggested that, because of a variety of conditions which are to be found either in the physical, or chemical nature of the soils, the basic deficiency is to be found in an inadequate supply of water. This becomes critical with different sizes of trees according to the degree of adversity created.
42599639|A description is given of the way the census of woodlands in the British Zone of Germany is being carried out. New forest maps are being drawn and all compartments classified according to ownership, species and age classes. The author, who was recently directly connected with this work, makes an estimate of the total merchantable volume of Pine, Spruce, Oak arid Beech in the forests on ist October, 1945.
42601426|During the war years from 1939 to 1945, extensive areas of forest land administered by the Forestry Commission, near the south coast of England, were exposed to a high degree of fire risk owing to enemy air raids and other warlike operations. Fire precautions were therefore intensified; ploughed fire lines were formed on an extensive scale, new look-out towers erected, communications improved and mobile power-driven fire pumps introduced. Numerous fires were started by enemy action, but despite war-time difficulties the damage resulting was confined to a relatively small extent of land.
42602799|An account of a preliminary investigation into the root development of pine, cypress and Eucalyptus transplants following planting in the field. The note describes how glass sheets can be used to observe the growth of new roots and new mycorrhizae, and gives information on the time lag before the plants produce new roots and their subsequent rate of growth downwards through the first foot of soil (i.e. through the planting pit).
42600649|The influences discussed are theoretical and the writer has no evidence to show that the suggested effects are produced to any extent in practice. If legal considerations were given full weight in the management of private woodlands in Britain it is suggested that on the balance they would favour short against long rotations, conifers against hardwoods and even-aged against uneven-aged forest.
42602858|Mr. Davidson continues for a further fortnight or so his journey through Morocco ending it in Algiers. His notes end with some information on the work of the Algerian Soil Conservation Service and he describes their methods and the principles on which they work.
42602578|In one of the Sudan's few highland areas, the Forests Department operate two sawmills, utilising timber from both Mahogany forest and Podo forest. The mountains are reserved as part of a soil and water conservation project, where emphasis is given to afforestation of the catchment area, using both indigenous and exotic softwoods, or, in the plains, teak and mahogany. Forest Ranger students from the Khartoum training school visit the area annually as part of their course.
42602580|It is suggested that there is a great deal to be said for the traditional system of shifting cultivation in the wet tropics if it is not abused. Arguments are put forward to demonstrate that leaching by the concentrated "monsoon" rains washes nutrients in the soil down to such a depth that only the tree growth can recover them and maintain fertility. Advantages and disadvantages of shifting cultivation are reviewed as well as modern trends of thought on the rles of organic matter and fire in tropical agriculture. Finally, some suggestions are made as to how tree growth could best be used in agricultural systems.
42602758|Describes in more detail the kuda-kuda method, briefly mentioned in the writer's article on pages 47-51, Empire Forestry Review, Vol. 30, No. 1, 1951.
42600580|The background and experimentation leading to the present recommendations for the use of polythene bags for plant movements are described. The primary objective which led to the present recommendations for the use of polythene was the need to reduce the number of trees failing to become established in the forest and their consequent replacement. First experiments investigated ways of minimising planting losses through drying out of plants while in transit, by comparing various means of packing plants for despatch. Polythene film was found to give consistently good results and subsequent experiments have investigated how long plants can remain in polythene without deterioration. Polythene bags were used in Forestry Commission field trials on a moderate scale in the winter 1956/57 and 1957/58. They have generally been found very satisfactory, and have facilitated the movement of plants.
42598941|1. Blocks of wood were removed at monthly intervals for twelve months from two trees in the Gold Coast, one of Entandrophragma macrophyllum A. Chev. and one of Khaya grandifoliola C.DC. 2. Entandrophragma spp. have definite growth rings consisting of concentric bands of parenchyma. In the tree of Entandrophragma macrophyllum such bands were formed at the beginning of each of two consecutive growing seasons and at no other time. It appears, therefore, that ring counts may be expected to give a fairly reliable estimate of age in most species of this genus. 3. In Khay a spp. growth rings are often discontinuous and in the tree of Khaya grandifoliola it was not possible to correlate their formation with seasonal periodicity of growth; their value for estimating age thus appears to be very doubtful.
42602209|The author gives a general description of the part of Takoradi, its facilities and its drawbacks. He then describes how timber sawn in the log reaches the port, gives statistics of the destination of Ghana's timber exports and production of 5 years, comments on species exported and rate of flow to the port. He ends with some comments on the supply position and on future prospects of Ghana's timber trade.
42602794|Briefly describes the occurrence and distribution of Shorea albida in peat swamp forest in Sarawak and Brunei. Three vegetational associations are recognised, in two of which Shorea albida is gregarious. Approximately 30,000 acres of Shorea albida have been killed, and mortality has increased in the last ten years. Evidence from aerial photographic and ground surveys is given. The precise cause of the damage is unknown, but an unidentified and uncollected defoliating caterpillar is believed to be responsible. A contributory factor may be ecological disequilibrium of the peat-swamps.
42603156|This article deals mainly with problems affecting the future of mahogany supplies from Grand Cayman, largest island of the Cayman group, a dependency of Jamaica. In lighter vein, matters of "Treasure Trove", tarpon fishing and mosquitoes are touched upon. In conclusion, reference is made to the activities of Dr. C. F. Hickling, Colonial Office Fisheries Adviser, on a visit of investigation to Grand Cayman.
42601153|Essential to all forestry undertakings is the provision of continuing guaranteed finance. The Economic Survey of Forestry in Kenya, recently released by Government for general circulation, shows the Kenya solution of how future policy should be governed and financed. As it is revolutionary in its recommendations it is worthy of close study by all, but particularly by colonial foresters.
42602107|Simple over-cutting, of which examples are given, can be avoided either by waiting until an exploiter is willing to work only the estimated sustained yield of a forest, or by sterilizing sufficient additional forests to make up a series with the required capacity. But sustained yield will still depend on success in obtaining regeneration and bringing it to maturity in the time allowed. The character of tropical forests precludes economic working on short felling cycles, and post-exploitation canopies must suit the silvicultural needs of the primary species, except where taungya plantations are possible. Area control may cause fluctuations in output of commercial species, and be difficult to synchronize with pre-exploitation treatment as practised in Nigeria. The intensive exploitation contemplated in British Guiana may hinder regeneration of greenheart. If profit sharing is to replace royalties, funds adequate for regeneration should be paid to forest departments annually as essential timber development costs before net profits are calculated. Forest destruction was followed in Cyprus, as in France, by reconstitution for sustained yield. Is the sequence necessary?
42601577|The clinal plot layout, suggested by the late H. Pudden, appears to offer considerable saving in experimental area by dispensing with plot surrounds. It is shown that this advantage is completely outweighed by the impossibility of any valid statistical analysis.
42602500|Sir Harold Glover continues his series of articles on Soil Conservation in Parts of Africa and the Middle East by describing a visit to Jordan. Illustrated by an interesting series of photographs, he enumerates the soil conservation problems of that region under various headings and gives his impression of what is being done to combat the evils of over-grazing and the removal of vegetation from this hilly country.
42603153|The natural timber resources of the Union of South Africa are extremely limited, and the indigenous forests are never likely to play more than a very minor part in the timber economy of the country. The Department of Forestry has in the last fifty years or so introduced a very large number of coniferous timber trees from which the most suitable for commercial forestry have been selected. The timbers of these species are briefly described, and the uses to which thinnings from the plantations have been put are mentioned. It is shown how valuable an asset the plantations, even in their youth, have proved to the country as a whole. A critical evaluation of this comparatively fast-grown wood from stems from some of the small stands of relatively mature trees is made on the basis of strength, workability and defects. The two important classes of structural and factory timbers, each of which is divided into three grades in the Union, are briefly described, and used to obtain some comparison between the locally grown and the normal grade of imported softwoods. It is indicated that through pruning and other means, the local softwoods are likely to improve in quality, while the general standard of the imported timber is being lowered. In general it is concluded that while there may be some grounds for regarding the locally grown product as being in some respects less desirable than the slowly grown and more mature wood from overseas, these are not of sufficient importance to warrant any very significant change in silvicultural policy.
42600976|The experiments described were carried out during 1953-1959 as part of a general study of Scots pine seedling ecology and with the object of developing a practical method of establishing pine by direct seed sowing. The chief factors found to be responsible for mortality of seedlings in their first year, and especially in the weeks immediately after germination, are rodents, birds and slugs, with desiccation and water logging as occasional hazards. Success in direct sowing depends on the provision of a localised seed bed in which conditions for germination and seedling growth are near optimum so that a large and healthy seedling is obtained in the first year. Methods of ensuring this in the drier eastern and wetter western districts of the Scottish Highlands are described. It is concluded that, while good plants can certainly be produced in situ by these methods, further trials on a larger scale are required to determine whether spot sowing can ever be used to supplement or replace conventional planting procedure on certain sites.
42601069|Tracheid length was studied in 81 Pinus radiata D. Don seedlings, as part of an experiment to test the effect on seedling growth of three levels of Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potassium, in a factorial design. All the seed was from one tree. Analyses of variance of length, both near the pith and near the bark, showed that nutrient supply had no significant effect on tracheid length. Differences between seedlings appeared to be genetically controlled, and partly the result of open pollination. This conclusion, and the positive correlation between initial and final tracheid length confirms the validity of using length in the first ring as an indication of length in the adult wood. No correlation could be demonstrated between final tracheid length and distance from the pith. Pseudo-transverse cambial divisions occurred throughout the ring and there was no decrease in length at the end of the season or typical late wood. There was a posititive correlation between seedling height and final tracheid length. Tracheids immediately below a leaf trace were shorter than those elsewhere on the same section.
42601639|The Rondo is a small plateau between 2,000 and 3,000 feet high in the Southern Province of Tanganyika, and is within 50 miles of the coast. Some 50 square miles of the plateau have been a forest Reserve since 1909. The rainfall is about 40 inches a year. The following account refers only to the Reserve. Exploitation of the natural Mvule stands started in 1949 and was shortly followed by a planting scheme aimed at replacing the crop. Originally the annual plant was to start at 40 acres and increase by 40 acres a year until 120 acres was reached. The scheme included a research programme aimed not only at solving the Mvule planting problems, but natural regeneration techniques as well, and trial plots of various exotics.
42601065|This pamphlet first covers the scope of the industry in the Union of South Africa, goes on to relate the past history of the industry and then gives a further note on the present and the future. A list is given of present operators and the pamphlet ends with tables showing paper production and consumption in South Africa in 1959-60.
42599696|Denmark has nearly 1,000,000 acres of forest or 10 per cent of the land area. The climate is maritime, the annual rainfall being 17 inches to 34 inches, with maximum in August. Strong winds and frost are important factors. The soils are almost all of glacial origin. The original vegetation was hardwood forest, mainly oak and beech, but in the west most has been denuded and replaced by heathland, whilst beech predominates in the east. Modern forestry began with Von Langen in 1760, some of his plantings of conifers still surviving. Dune and heathland afforestation has been mainly done with Pinus montana; the older plantations are being converted to the more exacting conifers and hardwood, whilst coniferous mixtures are being tried in more recent heathland planting. The beech forests have deteriorated under past treatment and a larger part have been converted to spruce, mainly on economic grounds, spruce now being the country's most important species. National policy is now to preserve the remaining hardwood area and regeneration work is in progress, mainly sowing and planting under a shelter-wood. Oak is usually raised with birch or alder nurses and is being thinned earlier and more heavily than elsewhere. Management is based on periodic enumerations giving data for growing stock, increment and age-class distribution, but the local officers have much latitude. Considerable attention is being given to genetic problems.
42602825|Published methods of estimating the relationship of girth to age in unevenaged tropical forests of trees with indistinct growth rings are not very precise and involve some dubious graphical construction. By the use of simple arithmetic it is however possible to avoid some of these errors, and two examples have been worked out by this method, using the data of previous authors; the results obtained by each method are compared, and applications to Age /Height and Age/Volume relationships are indicated.
42602382|In the summer of 1956 the Soviet Government invited six foresters and an interpreter from the United Kingdom to visit the Soviet Union. This report gives an account of our tour which was devoted primarily to a study of forest research, shelter belts and silviculture. Our main stops were at Moscow, Kiev, Kharkov and at Sochi on the Black Sea whence we made an excursion into the Caucasus. The report is divided into two parts. Part I opens with some general notes on the forests and the forest policy of the U.S.S.R. The outstanding fact about the forests is their size: they account for about one quarter of the total forest area of the world. In the forest research institutes and training centres which we visited we found that the general organisation and the methods of working did not seem to differ greatly from what we are accustomed to in Western Europe. The large shelter belts in the Ukraine, on the other hand, of which thousands of miles have been planted in recent years and which have become a distinctive feature of the landscape, present many problems with which we are less familiar. Intensive cultivation and finding the correct mixture of tree and shrub species for each site appears to be the keys to success. Part II, which will follow in the next issue, will describe the forests and arboreta which we visited.
42599641|Forests formed the cradle of the evolution of human society in pre-history. They paid the price of later development of human society by their own extinction. The latter led ultimately to the decay and disappearance of the civilizations to which the forests were thoughtlessly sacrificed. If present civilizations are to endure man must be guided by the lessons of the past. Knowledge of the direct and indirect forest values is essential for adequate appreciation of the part these play in human economy and the dire consequences of the neglect of forest conservation. Forests play a greater part in rural than urban economy. The Ceylon villager who forms the bulk of the population lives literally by and on the forest. In addition to the more commonly known direct value as the source of the "Universal Rohstoff", timber forests have a much more important role to play, particularly in Ceylon, through its indirect influences, i.e., conservation of soil and water and amelioration of local climatic conditions. Nature has arranged that these good services be most pronounced when and where they are actually most needed. The study of the ways and means by which forests can and do affect microclimates of particular areas would help us find means of suiting local conditions to our special requirements, e.g., malarial control by screening pools and streams, eradication of swamps, etc.; shade trees in "industrial" plantations, wind belts in large State farms, etc. The coffee plantations of Ceylon abandoned owing to ravages of insect pests and fungal diseases would have escaped this fate had the more enlightened technique of growing it as now practised in the Gold Coast been known. Rubber plantations are known to do better under forestry methods of care and maintenance. The cardomon cultivator gives a lesson to others and the question arises as to whether the tea planter cannot do better by giving more attention to "forest influences" of this land. Afforestation has changed the landscape and local conditions in the extensive dry Patana grasslands of the Uva Province and made possible a real start with ministerial colonization schemes in that region. Judging from results, local as well as from the Nilgris hills, there is justification for the hope of amelioration of climatic and living conditions here as a result of afforestation. Much of the apparent fertility of tropical forest soils is illusory, entirely acquired by and dependent on the retention of the forest state. Wherever possible we must, as we do in the Eastern Province, replace shifting chena cultivation by co-operative reforestation. Much of Ceylon's agricultural welfare depends on irrigation. The supreme custodian of water and soil conservation is the forest. It is on the forest we should rather depend to control run-off, prevent erosion and keep springs and streams running clear and perennial rather than on soil and water conservation engineering.
42601063|The methods of extracting timber by Skyline Crane are briefly discussed and recent improvements described. New types of cranes, carrying 5-ton loads, are now in operation in many parts of the world and short descriptions are given of operations in Europe, India and British Columbia.
42600942|The greenhouse and field experiments described were carried out between 1953 and 1959 on various Scottish Nature Reserves and at the Edinburgh Headquarters of the Nature Conservancy. The principal factors investigated were (i) Light requirement, (ii) Influence of surface humus and litter layers, (iii) Phosphate nutrition, (iv) Mycorrhiza formation. The bearing of the results obtained on our understanding of the dynamics of the native Scottish pine forests is discussed.
42602501|Our Editor-Secretary made a pilgrimage to former haunts in Perthshire and apologises for inflicting his own nostalgic memories on our members. He describes the particular excursions he chose (there were daily alternatives). First the Black Wood of Rannoch and Drummond Hill were visited. On the second day he made the trip to Inshriach and Queen's Forest in the Spey Valley and on the third went to Murthly Estate and the mechanised nursery at Ledmore. The discussion session at the Atholl Palace Hotel is briefly summarised and the final session at Dunkeld House, after some digressions to see soft and hardwood plantations, receives passing mention.
42602185|The present position respecting a number of experiments with a system of planting by dense groups, widely spaced, which were established in Scotland and the north of England in the years 1929-32, is reported upon, with reference to a series of photographic illustrations taken in 1950. Earlier claims concerning advantages of such a system are discussed in the light of what these experiments now show. Expected disadvantages are similarly dealt with, as are new advantages which have emerged. The similarity of the method to the Russian method of "nest" sowing or planting is briefly considered. In general it is concluded that results are very promising and that the system is deserving of extensive trial under a variety of conditions. Suggestions as to the form such trials might take are offered. It is considered that the system is a plastic one and well adapted to lead to the formation of stands, irregular in composition and age, which in certain circumstances are for several reasons to be preferred to those regular stands which derive from even-aged orthodox plantations.
42602857|The author divides the forests of the U.S.S.R. into three categories and states what the regeneration methods are as applied to each type. He gives some statistics for disforestation and for regeneration. He describes the national forest policy with its many implications as to mechanisation, thinning and research.
42602539|The Cambridge Botanical Expedition to Nigeria examined the working of the "Tropical Shelterwood System" in the Okomu Forest Reserve, Benin. The forest here is perhaps an over-mature stand, at present breaking up through the action of storms, old age, and light scattered exploitation. In undisturbed forest the majority of the economically valuable emergents do not appear to be regenerating continuously, judging from the proportions of various size-classes; there are numerous saplings of some of the Meliaceae in and around gaps. At least forty to fifty saplings of "economics" per acre exist as advance growth when operations for regeneration begin; but a far greater number enter shortly before or after the first opening of the canopy. In the later stages of regeneration it is mainly worthless short-lived species characteristic of secondary forest that enter, though there is some further entrance of economics. Commercial exploitation is not likely to be followed by satisfactory regeneration without assistance, but provided that exploitation remains light, a system in which silviculture follows instead of precedes exploitation would be satisfactory. The possibility of regeneration after farming, with seed from emergents left standing over the crops, deserves study. Climber-tangle is of several kinds; beneath it there is sometimes valuable regeneration which needs assistance if the tangle is to revert reasonably quickly to high forest. To maintain natural mixtures of species and forms of forest is a measure of prudence; until much more is known about the ways in which species interact with each other and with the soil it is impossible to predict whether departure from natural forms will be followed by disaster or not.
42599840|During understorey weeding and canopy opening in tropical forest it is sometimes desirable to avoid frill cutting and with some types of labour equally desirable to prevent arsenical poisoning. Two possibilities have been tested; the use of relatively non-toxic substances where frills can be tolerated and the direct application of hormones to uncut bark. It is shown that emulsions of butyl chlorophenoxyacetates in used motor sump oil applied to bark are effective in the species tried and are therefore worth testing elsewhere.
42601061|The author confines himself to the Tropical Forestry Section of the Fifth World Congress. First, G. G. Watterson of F.A.O. deals with likely trends in forestry in Africa due to independence granted to ex colonies, with the danger of short-term views and how forestry enthusiasm may nevertheless be channelled. Messrs. Swabey, CO., and Chittenden, T.P. Institute, deal with management problems consequent upon the multiplicity of species and give their prescriptions for the future, based on rate of growth. Alastair Foggie, adopting an ecological approach from Ghana, does not despair of a solution, or a series of solutions, to the problems of natural regeneration there. V. S. Rao submits an historical note on Indian Forestry as does the Forestry Department in Burma but both prescribe for future developments in their respective regions. George LaBounty tells of the forestry position in British North Borneo and M. K. Shawki, dealing with forestry in the Middle East, tells of concern with forest degradation which has led to progress in Iran, Iraq, the Sudan and Cyprus. The Dawkins paper deals first with Refinement and Enrichment, has some new ideas on natural regeneration, and ends with a differentiation between Dynamic and Diagnostic sampling. Mr. Aubrville has a rosy view of the future for Tropical hardwoods but M. N. Gallant is not so hopeful about certain export markets though of opinion that rising living standards will look after many home markets. Alan Lamb's garden of Eden is Trinidad where forestry has passed the experimental stage and is appreciated, with finance no longer a limiting factor. Eero Kalkkinen, also from F.A.O., writing on Latin America is only pleased with pulp progress, though the foundations of forestry education are being laid. From Brazil C. J. W. Pitt reports on present logging practice but is not without hopes for future progress through Dawkinsian refinement. The article ends with the recommendations on Tropical Forestry most commendably produced the day after the final Plenary Session.
42602429|Deals in a general way with Belgian forestry consequent upon a brief visit to the country during the summer of 1948. The general topographical and climatic conditions are considered and some silvicultural items of interest seen on four private estates and in one State forest are briefly described, including an interesting method of converting artificial conifer stands to a system of natural regeneration, an interesting process of artificial regeneration, and other methods of afforestation on difficult infertile areas. Some information is also given on the relations between private forestry and the State, on forestry education and research, and on the effects of the last war.
42599649|Soon after the Allied Armies gained a firm foothold on the Italian peninsula Professor Nelson C. Brown was sent to Italy to advise the Allied Commission on a forestry programme. His report was made directly to the commission and has received only limited distribution. The summary presented here was prepared by Associate Editor Sisam, with the approval of Professor Brown. It describes Italian forests, their history, and potentialities. The plan presented provides ultimately for making Italy essentially self-sufficient in forest products.
42600850|A short paper dealing with the main problems arising from experiments to establish concentrated natural regeneration of commercially valuable species. Most species at present valuable are slow growing and shade tolerant and attempts to establish them under the shelterwood system have met with mixed success, but it seems that to tend a mixture with a high percentage of these species would require skilled, regular and heavy thinning which is not administratively feasible or economically sound. The most crucial problem is to decide what species are to be accepted for the final crop. For this a policy decision is needed: in short whether to grow for quality or for quantity. If for quality, the selection system seems the only possible system. If for quantity, a wider list of acceptable species, which would be bound to include several fast growing light demanders, would make the establishment of a mixed crop relatively easy and cheap. Such a mixed crop, however, would include few trees of species which at present command the highest prices.
42601357|Density variations in the timber of Ramin (Gonystylus bancanus (Miq.) Baill. are considered in material drawn from three sites, the padang forest, from the deltaic swamp and from the coastal swamp. Tables illustrate variations outwards from the pith and at various distances from the pith. Graphs are then drawn to illustrate variations in basic density and a diagram followed by a table deal with percentages of different tissues at different distances from the pith. The most striking difference observed was, unexpectedly, the higher proportion of fibres in the wood of the coastal swamp.
42601775|The pine forests of the Bahamas cover the three largest and most northerly-islands of the group. Nature has endowed this species of pine with remarkable regenerative powers in the face of all manner of obstacles. Past workings have been on a systematic basis and good records kept in spite of almost complete absence of any official control. Working started in 1900, and the writer estimates the first cut will be completed by 1978, as against his prescribed economic rotation of seventy-five years. These forests present the ideal "set-up" for text-book forestry. Extraction difficulties, particularly the long barge haul and loading into ships on the open sea, bring all exploitation of these forests into the "marginal" category.
42602026|Since 1942, when the first sawmills were established, Sierra Leone has become self-sufficient in timber supplies. An unusual feature of this development is that the Forest Department is the only large producer. All operations from logging to manufacture and marketing are carried out departmentally through the Forest Industries Branch of the Department, which is started by specially-recruited technical officers under the general management of a Colonial Forest Service officer. A very general account is given of the development and present operations of the Forest Industries Branch, of some of the problems encountered, and of future trends. Experience in Sierra Leone may be of value to other Colonial Forest Departments which have started, or are contemplating departmental exploitation.
42602793|This review was read by the author as a paper at the XIth International Congress of Entomology at Vienna, 1960. Circumstances which may affect attack in trees and felled logs are discussed under the headings physical, chemical and biological factors. It is concluded that although much work has been done many problems remain unsolved and some lines of further research are suggested. A reference list of 53 publications is appended.
42600974|This is a brief review of two publications giving evidence on the hydrological effects of conifer plantations on areas of Mount Kenya where bamboo forest formerly stood. Plantations are made by the "shamba" system by which clean weeded vegetables are grown between conifer seedlings. The first paper describes measurements on adjacent areas of bamboo forest and conifers. Electrical resistance units were used to measure seasonal changes in water storage. The experiment showed that the substitution of softwood plantations for bamboo thicket is not likely to affect streamflow adversely. The second study was an extension of the first and a full-scale catchment area was used. A progress report summarises the first three years results. Experiments on catchments fill in the data for the early stages of softwood rotation, for which simpler experiments could give no evidence. They show that pine seedlings use less water than bamboo seedlings in the first three years, but the difference is less after the first year. Final results must await completion of the conifer rotation, but it is becoming apparent that the hydrological results of the change from bamboo to conifer plantations are small. Two other sets of catchment area experiments concern an overgrazed area where peasant cultivation had been carried out on steep slopes. Simple assessments of sediment load show the high quality of water produced by forested catchments.
42601717|After a description of the Mediterranean climate and vegetation, the great amount of forest destruction and soil erosion which has taken place is mentioned, and overgrazing indicted as the major cause. Some of the attempts to restore the position in France, Italy and North Africa are described, and conclusions drawn from their relative success.
42601727|In this paper an attempt is made to show the amounts and kinds of waste which develop in the different branches of the wood-using industries from the cutting of the trees in the forest to their conversion into finished marketable products. The total loss from the forest to the finished product varies widely with the nature of the forest and the use which is made of the logs. The paper also shows how the percentage waste is gradually being reduced by improving operating techniques all along the extraction and production line. It also attempts to show the interdependence of lumber, pulp and other wood-using industries in obtaining a high degree of efficiency in the use of timber resources. Attention is drawn to some of the more recent developments in mechanical and chemical utilization of wood, and, particularly, wood waste, and some fields of development which justify further investigation are indicated. Throughout the paper frequent reference is made to the need of a great deal more research in order to widen the use of the large amounts of wood which are at present entirely wasted, or are put to low-grade uses.
42602683|The following paper originally appeared in Photogrammetric Engineering (June 1955) under the title "Some Photogrammetric Problems in Engineering Projects" and is reproduced in part with the permission of the Editor and of the Secretary of the American Society of Photogrammetry. Foresters have, in the past, been understandably sceptical of the accuracy obtainable by the use of aerial survey for contouring tropical forest areas. The following paper gives specific details of such a survey, a considerable proportion of which was later checked on the ground by traditional methods. From the results it would appear that the aerial survey methods are faster, cheaper and up to the standards of accuracy of ground survey alone.
42599637|The outlook of professional foresters has altered in many countries as a result of practical experience in the integration of forest management and afforestation into the larger picture of land use planning. A plea is put forward for Scottish foresters, and particularly those in government employment, to place more emphasis on the indirect benefits of afforestation in the domain of shelter-belts for livestock and highlevel planting to secure a more stable stream-flow for hydro-electric needs.
42601486|Only a small proportion of the area of merchantable native forest remaining is likely to prove amenable to intensive management under either even or uneven-aged systems of silviculture. A much larger area, however, may prove to be suitable for extensive management using more casual forms of silviculture. These and other matters are discussed.
42601151|The profitable utilization of small timber from silvicultural thinnings and from scrublands cleared to make way for productive woodlands in this country is a problem of pressing importance for which no precedent exists. It envisages dealing with a volume of some 10,000,000 cubic feet of timber this year, rising more or less steadily over the next fifty years to 40,000,000 cubic feet a year. The solution suggested lies in the development of a process which can deal with this material as it comes from the forestboth hardwood and softwoodwithout discrimination as to species, quality or size, combining new and economical methods of extraction with new methods of converting low-grade rough or crooked round timber. The new plant and the new methods developed are describedincorporating machines of revolutionary designto produce square-edged stock from small round timber by fast sawing into small dimensions and squares and by re-sawing into smaller sizes, mainly by semi-skilled labour.
42602311|This is a review of a report submitted as a thesis for a doctorate of philosophy. The review starts by giving the background to the newsprint industry carried on by Australian Newsprint Mills Pty. Ltd. in Tasmania. A large area of forest containing a large quantity of Eucalyptus regnans was granted to the company. During the first ten years it was evident that all was not well with the regeneration of E. regnans and a three-year fellowship to study the problem was given to Dr. J. M. Gilbert. His thesis was the result. The thesis firstly deals with the ecological background of E. regnans in which fire plays a large part. Secondly its seeding habits are dealt with. Part III deals with germination of seed and survival of seedlings. The nature of the seedbed is shown to be very important. Part IV deals with browsing by animals. Two species of wallaby and possums are the animals mainly responsible. Lastly Part V sums up the whole position. Natural and artificial regeneration are discussed.
42601635|This paper is a discussion on the thesis that, given adequate climatic suitability and freedom from infection and infestation, the manner of development of even-aged plantations and the type of forest which, given time, ultimately will develop, is largely determined by the prevailing soil conditions. Trees, according to their species, make certain inherent demands for feeding space, in order to achieve good growth. The space available tends sooner or later to be deficient as a source of satisfaction for these. This deficiency is always basically physical, or chemical, or both: according to its severity and character it mainly determines the natural course of development in canopy structure and through this, the limits within which silvicultural techniques achieve their aim. As a deficiency, it prevents growth occurring which naturally is attempted and through this frustration of growth disease develops. Examples are given to illustrate these things.
42601355|A fortnight in Corsica in June 1958 provided an opportunity of examining the environment of the Corsican pine forests and their setting in the mountain vegetation of the island. In the three large State forests where these studies were made, the Corsican pine, for the most part occurring as pure stands, extends from 900 metres to 1,500-1,600 metres (approx. 3,000-5,000 ft.): at the lower limit it competes with the maritime pine (Pinus pinaster), at the upper with beech (Fagus sylvatica), or sometimes silver fir (Abies alba), or birch (Betula verrucosa). Some account is given of the manner in which the distribution of these five trees, while basically linked with altitude, is modified by aspect and other local features. In the Fort de Valdo-niello continuous records of rainfall and air temperature over a four-year period permitted a comparison between certain climatic features of the Corsican pine forest and those of lowland and upland forest sites in Britain, where the planting of this exotic has been attended by variable results. The soil conditions in the optimum zone are also described. Granites are usually the parent rock in the main mountain chain where the Corsican pine forests are found: deep well-drained, rather fertile soils prevail in the valleys, but on steep, rocky, eroded hillslopes conditions are much less favourable. At the upper altitudes protection against fire and soil erosion is the main consideration in forest management.
42601154|The most important forest trees in Cyprus are two pines, Pinus nigra at high levels and Pinus halepensis at lower levels. The pine forests of Cyprus have been badly misused in the past, but during the last ten years they have at last been given almost complete relief from goat grazing. The response of Pinus halepensis has been remarkable and regeneration both natural and artificial has been easily obtained. Natural regeneration of Pinus nigra, however, seems to depend on more than one major factor. It seems that for this species goat grazing is only half the story, the other half being connected with the dates on which the winter snows fall and melt. At high altitudes, where Pinus nigra forest has been so burnt out that insufficient seed bearers remain, regeneration must be carried out by artificial means, On denuded land at these levels geology, slope and climate combine to produce an unstable soil on which few species can maintain a roothold or avoid being buried. Re-forestation seems to be impossible until soil movement has been reduced by the introduction of fast growing herbaceous colonizers.
42600466|Part II of Mr. Hutchinson's article starts with a description of scaling, continues with a very full account of road-making under location and construction, and then goes on to describe methods of logging under yarding, loading with machines described, landings, and finally booming and rafting. There is a bibliography of eight items and a full and interesting glossary of the many local terms used in B.C. logging.
42602575|The author, from a wealth of practical experience, starts his article with reasons why there are 215 references to termites in Forestry Abstracts up to 1954, and why they are of increasing importance both in buildings and plantations. Describing first their biology he lists the four main groups and then subdivides the last and most numerous into two, the fungus-growers and the humus-feeders. Next he deals with pests of growing trees in Australia, Tropical America, Asia and Africa and with the aphorism that termites never attack healthy trees and its corollary that any tree attacked by termites is therefore unhealthy (almost true it seems in Africa). "Maltreatment, under the guise of pruning of trees in avenues, public gardens, and similar situations often leads to termite attack ... The danger can be avoided without much difficulty but the protection of trees once the termites are established is generally laborious, and unlikely to be undertaken". There follow interesting sections on termites as ecological factors, a very considerable study in itself, on natural resistance "There does not seem to be such a thing as ultimate termite resistance" and on timber impregnation "Soft timbers which are impregnated with little difficulty may, in the long run, prove more durable than many of the harder, naturally resistant timbers at present in demand". There is a copious and comprehensive bibliography which should, with the article, be invaluable to foresters.
42602465|The author attempts to show that by means of graphical analysis of field enumeration details of girth measurement, "emergence" as a physical character may be related to girth distribution, especially when related to the girth distribution of all species in one locality or forest.
42602315|The assumption that within each forest type the volume of Ocotea rodiaei (Greenheart) per acre is constant, has been proved to be correct by correlating timber volume, measured in the field, with the areas of the Greenheart bearing forest types, measured on a photo-interpretation map. The regression equation thus produced can be applied to Greenheart bearing forest types from a photo-interpretation map of another area to estimate the Greenheart volume in that area without carrying out a field survey.
42600245|The article describes Forest Management Licences in British Columbia with progress in allotment to the present day and criticisms of Licences. The author expresses his views on some of these criticisms. As a concrete example of a Forest Management Licence, the article goes on to deal with progress of Management on one such licence located in the Okanagan Valley.
42600504|The paper deals with the difficulty, against competition with agriculture, in acquiring new areas for forestry. The author goes on to consider soils and sites available for exotic forestry. In some sites all factors are favourable and there any number of species can be grown but at the other end of the scale are soil types critical to the healthy growth of trees. Examples are given. Only in the last decade questions of unthriftiness and sickness have been investigated, e.g. by D.S.I.R. at Riverhead, 20 miles north of Auckland. Dr. Stoate visited this area and recognised disorders well known in Australia. Australian remediessuperphosphate, for examplewere applied with encouraging results; they are to be extended by topdressing methods. Zinc and ammonium sulphate have been added singly and in combination but with no lasting benefit yet observed (cf. W. Australia). Areas where conclusions as to the second crop can be drawn from the first now exist in New Zealand and pedologists are co-operating with the forester in an attempt to assess the productivity of the areas. Full scale soil surveys and maps follow. The work of Ward and Hocking in this field receives comment; it refers to a new scheme at Te Wara "in the back country of Taranaki" and breaks new ground for New Zealand. Sirex noctilio damage and its relation to climatology, studies on the nutrient status of foliage, on the chemical composition of litter all receive mention. Then the author discusses, shortly, the inter-relation of forests and soils, the management of nurseries to maintain soil fertility with possible later developments in the advisory service for farmers and planters. A tribute is paid to the work of the staff of the Soil Bureau of the D.S.I.R.
42600856|Numerous studies in many countries have been made of the effect on increment of various pruning degrees in even-aged pure coniferous stands. The pruning degree has been variously specified, in most cases without reference to stand density. The present paper seeks to show that this omission deprives the specifications of precise meaning. It suggests that a pruning degree should be defined by the ratio of crown depth left after pruning to the potential crown depth for the stand density existing at that date, and additionally at the dates of foreseeable changes in stand density. Suggestions are made as to how the potential crown depth for a given density may be calculated, based on the hypothesis that, on a given site, stand density is the predominating factor limiting green crown depth, and a method is suggested whereby an estimate may be made of the amount by which increment will be depressed by any degree of pruning contemplated, whether associated with thinning or not.
42601583|The approaches and forestry background of foreign foresters, in particular British, who undertake post-graduate work in American universities are described. The special characteristics of their educational background and professional environment are considered and compared with those of the local student, and suggestions are made as to how their objectives may be met. Possible fields of study are discussed. Mention is made of the difficulties of the overseas student when he encounters the complexities of the American university system. In an introduction certain aspects are elaborated for the benefit of the Commonwealth reader and certain advice given to the intending post-graduate student, especially in regard to his choice of institution.
42602210|The principal ecological types, discussed previously, are summarised below in catena sequence from hill-top to valley bottom. The abbreviations used on the photographs, for each sub-type, are shown in brackets; and the symbols used are general enough for the type-mapping of the photographs prior to ground reconnaissance. Each sub-type has a different saw-log value/potential.
42602383|An account is given of the use made of aerial photographs and aerial survey methods by foresters in Norway, Sweden and Finland. The increasing use of aerial photography for forestry purposes in these countries and the equipment and techniques used are mentioned, and their applicability to other forest areas is discussed.
42600613|This study describes the application of aerial photography to tropical rain forest in Ceylon over a wide altidunal range, 300 to 3,800 feet. The Sinharaja forest, 24,000 acres, selected for this study had not been previously examined except by earlier reconnaissances which had indicated the general distribution of the forest types. The application of aerial photograph to the mapping of vegetation types in the tropics is reviewed. From the initial phases of the preparation of topographic maps and the mapping of broad vegetational types mainly for land use purposes using small scale photography, the more recent application of aerial photography has been towards the delineation of vegetational types on ecological lines. The most recent development has been the preparation of stock maps and inventories based on the correlation of vegetational types with ground sampling and the use of statistical methods for determining the limits of accuracy. Such methods, employing a restricted form of random sampling, have been found applicable to semi-deciduous (teak-bearing) forest in Thailand using small scale photography (1:48,000). For intensive studies of tropical rain forest, in order to evaluate the ecological significance of sampling, large scale photography is found to be necessary. Scales of 1 : 10,000 to 1 : 15,000 have been found most suitable. The scale of photography used for the present study was 1 : 15,840. The recognition of distinctive photo-patterns was the basis of stratification. The ecological significance of the stratification was investigated by empirical methods of field sampling, largely based on the "selected line" method used in Canada. The final mapping was done after the results of the sampling had indicated the nature and significance of the strata. The stratification obtained by air-photography was found to have a close relationship to previously recognised ecological types, chiefly the Mesua-Doona-Shorea climax community and its softwooded faciation (Cullenia-Palaquium-Doona congestiflora). Both types have been recognised with single species dominants, designated the 3 ND type in which Mesua ferrea predominates and the 3 T type in which Doona congestiflora predominates. The tendency in these types is towards an extreme form of gregariousness. Between these two extremes, intermediate and mixed types have been recognised, designated the 3 U and 3 TS types. The former is a more mixed type with the hardwood Mesua, Doonas and Shoreas predominating and is the largest and most widely distributed type covering approximately 70 per cent out of the total area of 17,000 acres of virgin forest. The latter is also a mixed type, but with the softwooded elements (chiefly Doona congestiflora with Calophyllum, Cullenia, Palaquium and Myristica species predominating. The ecological relationships of the major types are discussed. The evidence of the spatial distribution of the chief species in relation to regeneration, especially of Doona congestiflora appears to give support to the possible occurrence of a cyclical or recurrent space-time pattern in the region. There is also a strong correlation between the presence of certain specialised types, the 3 MR and 3HR (ridge types), the 3 H (Dipterocarpus zeylanicus) and the 3 F (alluvial flats) types (the two latter types being only sparsely represented) and the peculiar geological features of the region. The 3 H and 3 F types are clearly associated with a senile stage in the drainage pattern. The intensity of sampling varied from 0.25 to 3.0 per cent for individual strata.The distribution of transects was mainly with the intention of getting as wide a dispersion of plots as possible. The results, however, give acceptable limits of error for each major stratum in the calculation of the total stock in terms of basal area (in lieu of volume) as well as in numbers of merchantable trees. In the larger types (3 U, 3ND), acceptable results have also been obtained for each category, viz. hardwood (two quality classes), softwood (two quality classes) and fuel, into which the species have been grouped in management practice. The application of these results to further work is discussed and the most suitable sampling procedures are indicated.
42601326|An export trade of Nigerian timbers has existed since the middle of the last century. Traditionally of mahoganies, the emphasis has shifted towards the export of general purpose timbers. The U.K. has always been the largest importer of Nigerian timber. There are many difficulties in marketing new tropical timber species, and the approach of marketing them as "substitute" timbers (e.g. mahogany, teak, greenheart, etc.) is deplored. It is concluded that, though the 1951 timber boom is over, there is still a future for Nigerian timbers, particularly as general purpose timbers; the timbers exported however, must be of high quality and in regular supply.
42601066|As envisaged in the Editorial in Empire Forestry Review 39 (3) 101 on pp. 261-264, this report amplifies the material there supplied by Mr. MacGregor's summary of first the Theoretical Determinants in Land Use Policy related to the 18 lectures given at Oxford in connection with this course. It then goes on to give, in some detail, an account of the problems in Land Use demonstrated in tours of England and Wales, Switzerland, Italy and France. In a future issue of the Empire Forestry Review it is hoped to give a selection from the papers submitted by some of those who participated in the course and in the tours which followed it.
42602685|The article starts with the basic facts on topography, climate, soils, area including forest area, distribution of population, demands on the forests with a short paragraph on shifting cultivation. Next the forest area is described in greater detail including notes on forest products, major and minor, and on the protective function of forests. Then forest organization is discussed under staff, management, erosion and torrent control and forest industries. Finally, the author deals with such questions as the forest inventory, the forest policy protective and productive and the control of private forests ending with suggestions regarding forest legislation.
42600652|An overseas hardwood buyer once wrote very frankly to me saying "we buyers, by custom, are always asking for perfection, but we seem to get along very well with something less than that". That attitude is very understandable but it is a relic of the days when the grading of timber was little understood, or not understood at all. In the absence of proper grading rules and trained Timber Graders the buyer was forced to protect himself by asking for perfection in the shape of defect-free timber, but as long as the timber he received was suitable for the purpose for which it was required, he was content. Today it is an archiac anachronism to specify defect-free timber for that can only result in quite unnecessarily costly timber to the consumer. This article endeavours to explain the reason for that statement; is also touches on the systems of grading, and gives some notes on various printed grading rules for sawn hardwood timber.
42602897|It will be apparent that the municipal forest organization in Ontario combines the established principle of the sustained yield with reforestation along sound silvicultural lines. It is essentially an attempt to regulate intensively the forestry undertakings of counties and conservation authorities with widely differing local conditions, and to reconcile those undertakings as intimately as possible with existing markets, requirements and labour supplies. Inherent in its format, also, is the belief that the plan may presently become the guide for a much more extensive programme administered directly by the province through the Department of Lands and Forests.
42601356|The place of Experimental Forests in North American forestry is considered and their special values and limitations discussed. Aims and objects are considered in regard to research, education and demonstration. Specific examples are cited and varying opinion presented. Brief mention is made to their use elsewhere.
42602431|This article is a brief account of the progress of sand dune reclamation in the North Island of New Zealand during the last two decades. An historical introduction is followed by a description of the technique developed for New Zealand conditions and this in turn by an analysis of the various sites encountered in the dunes. In conclusion the work done is summarized, costed and compared with the classical reclamation schemes of Gascony. Historically the most salient feature of the work is that it was initiated primarily to absorb unemployed labour and only secondarily to protect public works and private farming land. This fact, coupled with the strong demand for more and more pasture, has led to the reclamation and afforestation of the dunes being confined to a very narrow coastal strip which in Gascony would serve only as protection forest but which in New Zealand meets the demand for production also. The magnitude of the problem is clearly seen when it is realized that, despite this narrow zone of reclamation and eighteen years continuous work, only one third of the dunes which required reclaiming in 1930 have been at present brought under control.
42602822|Continuing his article (see Part I in Vol. 35, No. 1, pp. 42-55) the author goes on to describe White Pine Grading Rules from Eastern Canada and from them passes to those for Red (Norway) Pine issued by the same authority, the White Pine Bureau, and to the three sets of rules for Eastern Canadian Spruce. He quotes examples from the 88 page rule book of the Maritime Lumber Bureau, pointing out that in practice the export market has found that six grades and seven dimensions are too complicated, so it is common practice to sell the top three grades as No. 3 and better, the next two under the joint title of Fourth and Fifth, while the sixth grade is not usually exported. Next the bilingual grading rules for Eastern Canadian Spruce, Balsam Fir and Jack Pine of the North Eastern Lumber Manufacturers' Association of U.S.A., and the Canadian Lumbermen's Association of Canada are dealt with in some detail. Finally the group known as Southern Pine is described with a table of strength values for the four principal species followed by a description of the grades and structural grades. "Nowhere in the whole world of lumber production has the matter been gone into with more care or in greater detail. These elaborate sets of grading rules are used by both the U.S.A. and Canadian lumber producing concerns . . . covering lumber, plywood and pulp, to competitively market their carefully manufactured and graded products throughout the world."
42600348|The author, Utilisation Officer of the Forest Department of Tanganyika, continues his account of the activities of the Utilisation Division which, as to Part I, appeared in E.F.R., 36, 1, pp. 67-79. Starting with staff he enumerates what he considers to be the minimum requirements referring them to local salary scales. He then deals with buildings and equipment for all aspects of the work. Hughes offers to give advice to other departments setting up a Utilisation Division from his own experience. This is a valuable offer which should not be overlooked. The vexed question of costs follows before he goes on to deal, in some detail, with the Research Programme ending with what he considers to be the priorities, the improvement of local standards in logging and hauling, better methods of handling, seasoning, preserving and timber working, and finally the utilisation of secondary timbers with suggestions for the order of tackling these (11 species are named). This part ends with a short paragraph headed Conclusion, in which he is perhaps over modest in his claims regarding "smaller tropical forest departments". Tanganyika is hardly that. Strongest emphasis is placed on continuity with staff problems naturally bulking large. The plates in Part II, except for that illustrating graveyard tests, all deal with logging and transport.
42602269|The changing pattern of Forest Research in Britain is considered against a background of unmanaged forest, destroyed natural forest and the attempts of enlightened landowners to improve matters. War, high taxation and the break-up of large estates led to the formation of the Forestry Commission. Their first research tasks concerned land types, nursery techniques, pathology and entomology, and yield tables. The tempo accelerated after the Second World War and measures to encourage better private forestry were devised. The main problems of forest establishment on heath and peat land having been solved, research has turned to problem areas, to grassy heaths, to dwarf gorse types and to smoke-polluted areas. Current problems in pathology and entomology, in nurseries questions of plant nutrition and the maintenance of fertility, investigations into the use of selective weedkillers and into manurial regimes all receive notice. Longer-term measures are replacing short-term with emphasis on continuing fertility in the forest, the carrying forward of sample plots from one rotation to another, mixture experiments, thinning regimes, quality in timber, the importance of genetics, seed orchards and hybridisation. Fundamental research now rightly concerns intself, inter alia, with the whole biological complex in which trees grow. Management and economics, the business aspects of forestry, perhaps unfortunately to some, are assuming increasing importance in our forests.
42599638|The development of the North German Timber Control from the beginning of the Military Government of the British Zone of Germany is traced and the restrictions of the geographical Military Government system as it affected the timber producing industry are criticized. The N.G.T.C. has become a very autonomous body, largely outside the Military Government organization but maintains a close and friendly liaison with all correlated Military Government functions. The several distinct operations of the N.G.T.C. as typified by the organization of Regierungs Bezirk, Lneburg, are described both in relation to the development from post-war chaos of the German forest service and trade and to the direct British-controlled production by displaced persons and ex-German prisoners (Dienstgruppen). "Operation Woodpecker" or timber production by B.A.O.R. is described. The German forest service has deteriorated sadly under the Hitler regime and during the post-war occupation period. The importance of ensuring its healthy resuscitation under wise control on a long-term policy is a serious responsibility but one which can be of great training value, both for the German Forstmeisters and apprentices, and for our British and Empire foresters. We can get more than timber only out of the German forests. We can train good German citizens and gain valuable experience in doing so.
42601578|As the supply of naturally resistant woods both for poles and cross-arm timbers decreased, use had to be made of less durable timbers and preservatives. Eucalypts are the species used as poles and they vary considerably in quality. Generally a penetration of 10-15 lbs. per sq. in. when applying creosote is sufficient. During seasoning there is little danger of decay, but there is danger of splitting and insect attack. The causes of failure, the introduction of treated poles and the creosoting system are described. Specifications cover quality and treatment of poles and deal with species, defects, shape, dimensions, seasoning, extent of borer attack, prefabrication, preservatives, penetration and cleanliness. Creosote treatment and retentions which are measured in lbs. per cubic foot of softwood are described and the inspection procedure which lays down three inspections. Regarding cross-arm treatments the causes of failure, the development of high pressure treatment using pressures in the order of 1,000 lbs. per square inch are described, also the commercial experience.
42600653|The use of electronic digital computers has made it possible to complete multiple regression analyses in a few minutes, and to extend the methods to numbers of variables hitherto regarded as being beyond the scope of even the most practised research workers. This paper describes a multiple regression programme written for the Ferranti Pegasus Computer, and used extensively by the Forestry Commission.
42600615|Six species of termites damaging trees and timber in British Honduras are recorded. Attack by the cucayo, Coptotermes niger, on standing pine and mahogany is described.
42600318|Dr. Griffith describes his experiences last autumn in an I.U.F.R.O. Tour of North Scotland, led by Mr. McNeill, of Aberdeen, assisted by Mr. Faulkner, of the Forestry Commission. Visits were made to Durris House, to see introduced conifers, to Glentanar estate, where morphological varieties of Pinus sylvestris were studied, to Clashindarroch, where he compares problems of introductions there with those in India and East Africa. The problems are essentially the same although their solutions may be quite different. He goes on to comment on the mechanised F.C. Nursery at Newtyle (with little application as yet to East African conditions), then on heathland experiments at Teindland and Speymouth, and on reclamation work on pure sand at Culbin. The experiments on pure peat at Lon Mor impressed everyone greatly, and he salutes the pioneers of 30 years ago. But the Anderson Groups evoked controversy; it was thought that those seen might have justified greater expenditure to produce a full regular crop. He commends the arrangements made, the work shown and, above all, the wonderful spell of weather.
42602823|Part of the 1954 silvicultural programme was to begin the regeneration of worked-out greenheart forest as recommended by the World Bank Development Mission to British Guiana in 1953. It was decided to carry out a pilot project covering approximately a square mile of exploited forest applying the results of all past silvicultural research on this problem. The area selected for the project was Block I of Willems Timber and Trading Company's lease in the Bartica Triangle. During the period 26th March-14th May, 1954, a party consisting of the D.F.O. (Silviculture), 4 members of the Silvicultural Staff and 20 Amerindians carried out greenheart regeneration work covering the whole of Block I. There follows a report of this work. This is preceded by a general note on greenheart regeneration summarising past work and an outline of the present problem in the Bartica Triangle.
42601354|Apart from their regular use in forest nurseries and on certain nutrient-deficient sites at the time of planting or to rejuvenate plantations that have checked, fertilisers are at present very little used in forestry, mainly because of lack of knowledge of the magnitude and persistence of responses that may be expected under given conditions. The literature records many instances of responses to different fertilisers, applied mainly at the time of planting, phosphate being the most frequently effective nutrient, though in certain circumstances N, K and Ca have also produced worthwhile responses. Classical work on liming in older conifer forests in Germany is mentioned, and recent work on nitrogen is discussed, with particular reference to the need for discovering a slow-acting form which will produce lasting effects. Much research is needed to determine conditions for economic growth responses to fertiliser applications, and it is stressed that the physical and biological factors affecting tree nutrition must be studied in addition to the purely chemical factors.
42602062|Describes the various extraction methods employed in the Third Division of Sarawak, the largest division in area and the most important timber producer in the colony. Tonnage figures refer to a ton of 50 cubic feet.
42600853|Variation of the moisture content of veneers was studied. Green, freshly peeled veneer was sampled according to plan and its moisture content determined; the effects due to species, individual logs, and positions within a log caused differences of statistical significance in the wetness of peeled veneer. By far the greatest part of the variation occurred among logs; individual logs within all species exhibited the greatest variation in levels of initial wetness by ranging between 83 and 124 per cent average moisture content. The species and position-withinlogs effects were far less variable, though significant. The species effect varied from 98 to 104 per cent while position differences were from 98 to 107 per cent in moisture content. It was possible to explain the range of 2 to 15 per cent moisture content observed in veneer dried in a local continuous dryer in terms of these differences.
42602000|The preparation of a merchantable volume table for Tarrietia utilis Sprague, Sterculiaceae, is described in detail. From 330 trees felled in the Kambui Reserve, Kenema Division, Sierra Leone, over-bark girths above buttress, over-bark mid-girths of logs, and total log length, were obtained. These data were arranged in 1 foot girth classes and 10 feet height classes, and the class means graphed in a series of harmonized curves. A tabular statement was prepared from the final graph, and when checked against the first hundred sample trees gave an aggregate volume which was 1.4 per cent less than the true total.
42601729|Analysis of the conversion figures obtained from a study of sixty peeler logs of various indigenous New Zealand species has given the following results: (1) There are certain unavoidable losses in plywood and veneer manufacture. This has been found to be equal to one-third of the original volume of the peeler log and moreover is consistent with the figure calculated from theoretical considerations. (2) Avoidable losses account for another third of the volume of the timber. This loss is probably characteristic for the type of peeler log species being converted into rotary veneer in New Zealand. (3) Only one-third of the volume of the green log timber finds its way into finished plywood sheets.
42601680|The author records his observations on a seven-day visit (which he rightly thinks could profitably have been extended to seven weeks) to two of seven stations of the Forestry Division of INEAC, those of Yangambi in the interior and Luki near the coast of the Belgian Congo. The former station covers six square miles of forests for intensive work and 800 square miles set aside for more extensive studies. He concentrates mainly on the latter, a purely forestry station at 1600' altitude covering 120 square miles and describes the work under six headsForest Botany, Ecology, Planting Regeneration, Natural Regeneration, the Luki system, conversion of poor and weed-infested forests to a productive community, and finally Utilisation. The plates illustrate the main points in each section. Most of the work is familiar but the Luki system, Uniformisation par le haut, has a new look which the author calls a weeding operation on the grand scale. Other interesting notes are on Banana-taungya and the use of Anderson methods (Placeaux Anderson) in the forests. Utilisation research is centered on Belgium: nine species are mentioned all familiar though perhaps Irvingia will be a surprise selection to West Africans. The nine listed are some only of many sent to Belgium for testing. There is a valuable bibliography. The authorities in the Belgian Congo are to be congratulated on the amount of money they seem to be able to devote to this and other research projects.
42601543|The long established principle in Europe of managing forests for a varied pattern of community use has now found strong expression by both Government and private foresters in Northern America. Management of forest lands for their Multiple Use was the principal theme of the Fifth World Forestry Congress held in the U.S.A. in 1960. Such management must concern itself with the yield of Wood Products, the care of Water, Wild Life and Grazing Resources, and the provision of ample facilities for Recreation. A comparison is drawn between the American and Australian scenes in discussing the application of Multiple Use management of forest lands in the two countries.
42600112|Three aspects of the relationship between afforestation in Britain and the community are dealt with; the extent to which the community generally appreciates what is meant by forestry and is aware of the afforestation already effected and proposed for the future; the enjoyment of Britain's forests by the people; forest labour and the development of forest villages.
42602384|The article sets out to show how important is the timing of the road construction to the cost of extraction. The value of roads to fire protection and general administration is estimated and accounted for. For an assumed set of conditions, it is shown that a graph can be produced which allows conclusions to be drawn regarding the correct timing of the road works relative to the age of the plantation.
42602160|This article is the substance of an address given to the Oxford University Forestry Society on 8th November, 1950. It briefly covers developments over the past thirty years, with special reference to fire weather research, equipment and tree look-outs.
42601584|The taxonomy of Pinus khasya Royle and Pinus insularis Endl. has been studied by examination of their external morphology, internal anatomy and wood structure, and of the composition of their leaf turpentines. No consistent differences were found in the morphology or anatomy; in the case of the composition of the turpentines there was some evidence of the presence in P. khasya of -phellandrene and its absence in P. insularis, but in view of the conflict of this result with previous findings and the probably minor significance of this difference, it is not considered justifiable to retain the separation into two distinct species. It is recommended that the name P. khasya be adopted, and that P. insularis be considered merely a synonym.
42601358|This is a short account of the excursion to Belgium of the Society of Foresters of Great Britain from 22nd to 28th May. The policy in the Ardennes is to improve the productivity of broadleaf areas involving the conversion of coppice as seen on the first two days in the Bouillon-Florenville districts and stabilising of existing conifer areas as seen in the Vielsalm district. Conversion and transformation involve the use of both broadleaf and conifer species in intimate groups. Peat planting at Hertogenwald was inspected as were a communal forest at La Yernee, and the private forest of M. Boel, President of the Royal Belgian Forestry Society at Court Saint-Etienne. The excursion ended with a visit to the magnificent beech forest of Soignes and a short look at the Research Institute at Groenendaal.
42602466|An attempt is made to summarise the conditions facing foresters in Palestine when the British Mandate begun and to trace the achievements of the last quarter century, beginning with the period when F. J. Tear, B.A.(Oxon), Dip. For.(Oxon) was Chief Forest Officer and Deputy Director of Agriculture and Forestry, through the conservancy of G. N. Sale, B.Sc.(For.) (Edin.), the first head of the separate Forest Department, and ending with current events under the acting conservancy of A. Y. Goor, M.B.E., M.Sc, Ph.D., Dip.For.(Oxon). These divisions are merely conveniences, of course, and no attempt has been made to observe them rigidly. Then follows a summary of results achieved and the developments planned when the Mandate terminated.
42601544|The symptoms of a dieback disease affecting many species of pines, eucalypts and other broadleaved trees in Northern Rhodesia are described, and compared with those of similar diseases, particularly in Central and East Africa. The results are given of experimental work, which showed that dieback in eucalypts is caused by a boron deficiency. Rates, times and the relative merits of ground and foliar applications of boron to prevent dieback of eucalypts are discussed, with experimental data. The relation of some soil and climatic factors to the incidence of dieback is discussed, and the widespread nature of boron deficiency in the dry tropics noted.
42602690|The nature of Eucalypt seed and the high level of impurities which usually has to be accepted can lead to great practical difficulties in seed testing. A method is described which gives a measure of the germination capacity of the uncleaned seed, and the results obtained from a series of tests made on seed of 43 species of Eucalypt are briefly discussed. The value of seed pre-chilling is considered.
42602898|The development of symptoms typical of fused needle disease is recorded in Pinus palustris under circumstances that point strongly to a transitory shortage of water as the responsible cause.
42600321|A method is being evolved for determining when to plant softwoods in a climate where the rainfall is very variable in amount and season. The preliminary indications of the first four years work are given. Criteria for safe planting are a minimum depth of soil wetting and a minimum rainfall build-up (as opposed to total rainfall) after a given date. Planting later in the rains than this optimum date results in serious loss of height growth and survival percentage as measured at the end of the first year. This adversely affects the conditions of the crop and the cost of raising it.
42602546|Some volume measurement systems are considered as examples of formulae designed to avoid the unlimited decimal places of  and to allow tables to be constructed simply. The equivalent sectional areas are shown as squares in a diagram and compared with the circular sectional area of an equal true solid volume. Conversion factors have been recalculated from first principles to correct errors in some of the published tables.
42600577|It is shown that in the species of eucalypt examined, gum zones may form in the bark, but not then in the woodas in E. gomphcephala, E. hemiphloia and E. occidentalis; or in the wood, but not then in the barkas in E. camaldulensis and E. maculata. It is suggested that this is a systematic distinction typical for the groups of eucalypts representedthe Boxes and the Gums. It is demonstrated that gum zone formation follows after collapse of tissue in the meristematic zone. This is held to be caused by water supply deficiency. The movement of the zone of collapse, developed as a gum zone, into the phloem, or into the xylem, is determined by the position in which meristematic activity is resumed; i.e. on the inner side of the tissue affected by collapse in the Boxes and on the outer side in the Gums. The tissues which surround the pipes of collapse remain parenchymatous. Comparison is made with similar phenomena which occur in conifers and which seem principally to be related to water deficiency. A short reference is made to the longhorn borer, Phoracantha semipunctata, in connection with gum zone formation in E. gomphocephala.
42602430|The article deals with the north-western district of British Guiana. After describing the forests and the terrain, the author states that the region is capable of development on a competitive basis with other timber regions of the world. All species must be logged, and appropriate logging methods are recommended. The author states as his strong opinion that the only way in which logging can be done at competitive costs is by the use of North American machinery, and key-men who are imported from North America, both of which will cost dollars. These key-men will train local labour. A method of selective logging which should give low costs and produce good species for succeeding cuts is set out. Timber possibilities for the colony are estimated, although admittedly knowledge is as yet small.
42602272|Shorea albida in Sarawak forms three types of forest association, described as the alan, padang and bunga forest types. It has been reported as producing two distinct types of commercial timber, a light-weight wood known as meranti bunga and a heavy wood, alan. It has been confirmed that the timber of this species exhibits a considerable range in nominal specific gravity, from 0.28 to 0.80, corresponding approximately to a range in density of 20-57 lb. per cu. ft. in the seasoned condition. Timber from each of the three forest types exhibits a similar range in specific gravity but the relative proportions of light and heavy wood are different. The wide range in specific gravity is due to variation within the tree. The first-formed wood is moderately light but with increase in size, there is an increase in specific gravity until a heavy wood of fairly uniform density is laid down. This pattern of specific gravity change across the stem was found in trees from each of the forest types. For convenience the central core of light to medium-weight wood is called the juvenile wood and the outer cylinder of dense wood the adult wood. Padang and bunga trees produce a somewhat larger core of juvenile wood than do trees from the alan forest. It is from padang and bunga trees that meranti bunga timber is obtained. Alan trees are mostly hollow, the core of light to medium-weight wood being lost. The outer cylinder of dense, adult wood is the source of commercial alan timber. Both alan and meranti bunga are produced by the same species but at different periods of growth. The size of the core of juvenile wood appears to be related to the size of crown developed by the tree during this period of growth. The density of the timber laid down is independent of size of tree, and appears to be independent of growth rate. There is possibly a correlation with age, and it may be dependent on some factor related to age. The larger size of the core of juvenile wood in padang and bunga forest trees than in alan forest trees is believed to be due to more vigorous juvenile growth in the former types of forests. A tentative explanation for this is given in terms of the structure of these forests and the method of regeneration. Shorea albida trees are very liable to wind damage. This may cause stem-break, which is often followed by coppice growth from the old stump, or loss of or damage to the crown followed by the establishment of a new crown. The tree exhibits a remarkable ability to continue growth following such damage. The central core of light-weight wood is very prone to brittleheart. In the padang trees, on the average, about one-quarter of the heartwood timber is affected.
42600651|Large-and medium-size seed of many species can be easily pre-germinated by mixing with moistened vermiculite and storing in polythene bags. As soon as germination commences in the bags, all the seed can be separated out from the vermiculite by sieving and sown into seed beds or boxes in the ordinary way; seeds thus sown emerge rapidly as seedlings. Alternatively, only those seeds which actually possess a small radicle are selected during the sieving process. These are "sown out" singly at transplant espacements into transplant boxes or beds, thus eliminating the use of seed beds completely. The remaining seed are returned to the bags to continue germination, and at short intervals, are again sieved and selected for sowing out. The advantages and disadvantages of using this technique in preference to conventional sowings and transplanting methods are discussed.
42601580|This paper was written by an officer of the British Forestry Commission after a tour of South African forests. It discusses the development of South African forestry since 1939 when the South African Forest Department adopted Craib's proposals for wide planting distances, fairly heavy thinning and pruning to a height of 22 ft. Craib's proposals were logical in the light of the available information and the economic circumstances of 1939. Since that date however the economic situation in South Africa has changed and it has become apparent that the criteria of timber quality which Craib took into accountnamely, density, size of tree and freedom from knots in the lower 22 ft. of the stemare not the only ones which must be considered when framing a silvicultural policy. In particular, spiral grain, compression wood and knottiness above 22 ft. are causing serious degrade in South African timber, and work is now going on in the fields of silviculture, genetics, sawmilling and management with the object of improving timber quality.
42600655|This is an account of China's First Five-Year Plan for Forestry. It gives statistics as to the extent and range of existing forests. Tropical to Arctic, covering 7.9 per cent of the total land area. Hiere is an historical note explaining the paucity of forests, a consequence in the past of man's unconcern for the future. The first five-year plan claims 11.29 m. has. of afforestation with about 88 per cent success. Protection measures are also receiving attention with extensive road work, 5,700 kilometres in 1953-57, and 7,000 kilometres of telephone wires installed. Regeneration measures have been applied to 5.9 m. has. in the period 1952-57. A note on some of the species used for timber and protection forests is included. Much educational and propaganda work has been done and more is contemplated.
42602214|The Northern Scotland 1959 meeting of the Society of Foresters of Great Britain is described. Using extensively the Tour Notes supplied visits to Glen Affric and Guisachan, to Strathspey, to the Black Isle and to Lethen and Cawdor are described. The annual meeting receives comment and synopses of papers at the Technical Discussion session are included.
42599652|A canker disease of Cupressus macrocarpa in Kenya, caused by Monochaetia unicornis (Cooke and Ellis) Sacc, is compared with a disease on the same host in California caused by Coryneum cardinale Wagener and the similarity of the two diseases noted. The disease in Kenya appears to be confined to the highlands east of the Rift Valley.
42602027|Short focus spectacles may be used as a stereoscope for examining aerial photograps; besides being cheap they have certain advantages over simple conventional stereoscopes, especially for field work. The construction of a cheap and simple pantograph is described; wax pencils and cellulose adhesive tape are useful accessories.
42600317|An account is given here of the development of the Utilisation Division of the Forest Department, Tanganyika Territory. The Forest Department is a small one, having only sixty-three officers with professional and technical qualifications. Of these, six are in the Utilisation Division, the maximum number we can afford to allocate to specialist duties of this sort. It would be comparatively easy with this number of officers to carry out the duties normally required of a Utilisation Division in a small department, that is, liaison with the timber trade and timber users and general advisory work on timber utilisation. This Division, however, plans to carry out research on timber utilisation, to demonstate equipment and technique, and to give some direct assistance to the trade in the installation and operation of equipment. To do this with only six senior officers is somewhat of a problem. It is thought that our plan for the organisation and working of this Division, together with an account of its development, may be of interest to Forestry Departments in other territories that have pressing utilisation problems and limited resources to deal with them.
42602795|The background and the extent of the problem are first stated by G. B. Ryle. Details are then given by J. B. Stocks, as Rapporteur, of the application with special reference to shelterwood restocking. Some figures regarding costs are given and a summary of the silvicultural advantages end this section. Rapporteurs from the U.K., France and Germany give a general summary. E. G. Richards gives some information on the marketing problems to be solved.
42599868|The B.C. forest service network started from very small beginnings in the 1920's: in 1937 the first modern equipment was purchased: in 1941 they were still experimenting and it was not until 1946 when surplus war equipment came on the market that considerable expansion was possible. The effective range of units, the problem of patrolling an extensive coastline, instruments designed for different purposes, portable sets, installations for Ranger stations with power available and for Forest District Control stations are all discussed. The organization which is complex is then dealt with and radio in forest protection is described with weaknesses due to three factors, the human factor, the time factor and multiple frequencies. To avoid these the author has suggestions to make regarding greater elasticity, the use of V.H.F. sets, types of aerials, mobile units in cars and how best to concentrate sets for a large fire. The article is about British Columbia but the author hopes that, with suitable modifications, it may be of use to other regions.
42601383|The significance of damage by insects to forest crops and products is becoming increasingly recognised by foresters and timber users throughout the world. In a short account of some of the major problems arising out of infestation of timber by insects, stress is laid on the need for accurate biological knowledge of the insects in the development of sound and lasting methods of prevention and control. In this connection the work of the recently formed West African Timber Borer Research Unit on ambrosia (pinhole borer) beetles and investigations past and present, at Princes Risborough and elsewhere on powderpost beetles, the house longhorn beetle and furniture beetles are included as examples. Attention is drawn to the importance of close co-operation between the wood preserving expert and the biologist, and an appeal is made to teaching entomologists to bring before forestry students in training the practical aspects of forest entomology, emphasizing the contribution it can make towards sound forestry practice and efficient utilization of timber.
42601490|Forest clearance for food farms and cocoa plantations may provide abundant breeding material for beetles that attack dead and dying trees. A new food farm in the moist semi-deciduous High-Forest of Ghana contained 93 species of bark and woodinhabiting Coleptera, of which 51 can attack some of the tree species at present being exploited. Insecticidal treatment of logs may be necessary when farming is taking place in the vicinity of log dumps or sawmills; for this purpose gamma benzene hexachloride is recommended.
42602760|This note deals with the study of some girth increment figures derived over a ten-year period from a tree increment plot in Baikiaea plurijuga "forest" in Northern Rhodesia. The method proposed by A. Foggie in his article in Vol. 24, No. 2 of the Empire Forestry Journal was used in interpreting these records, and comments and suggestions are made on the use of that method. Although the available data were extremely limited, it is tentatively concluded that B. plurijuga may be expected to attain 45 inches girth in 100 years on good quality sites.
42599644|A stock survey is made of the felling coupe, and a stock map drawn. The yield is selected from the stock map, with particular attention being made to distribution. The selected trees are then hammer-marked for felling.
42602025|The article provides an account of the application of the principles of scientific forestry over a period of seventy-five years to a forest consisting mainly of teak (Tectona grandis) in the Central Provinces (Madhya Pradesh) of the Indian Union. The first part describes the forest types and the influence of management over seventy-five years on the composition, particularly with reference to fire protection. The first description of the forest was written by Sir Dietrich Brandis in 1876-77. The second part gives some statistics of the growing stock and how the standing volume, increment, and time taken to reach the exploitable diameter have changed. This is illustrated by figures taken from the three successive working plans of Sir Peter Clutterbuck (1894-96), J. A. H. R. Gentle (1930) and Messrs. McDonald and Majumdar (1946).
42600508|The author first describes the scope of the investigations and names the marine borers found in African waters with particular reference to Mombasa, shipworms, gribbles and Teredos, Their preferences in the way of timbers receive mention, Limnoria's for softwoods, the Teredo's for hardwoods. Resistance of local timber species to marine borers is then listed; resistant to very resistant are members of the genera Afzelia, Chlorophora, a Terminalia, Brachylaena and Manilkara; moderately resistant are an Olea, a Mimusops and E. A. Cedar; non-resistant to Teredo and Pholads were E. A. Camphorwood, a Cynometra, a Funtumia, Eucalyptus saligna, Podocarps, a Vitex and Insignis pine. There is a further category, readily attacked, of nine species, mostly local. Other information was derived at Kilindini from fenders and other marine works where two imported woods, greenheart and ekki (azobe) were found to be resistant, whereas three local species, a Parinarium, a Trachylobium and Cassipourea were less resistant. The effect of various preservative treatments is then dealt with. Pentachlorophenol provided no protection, cieosote useful against Teredo and Pholads but not against the Gribble. Dieldrex shows promise, Rentokil  gave no protection but various copper salts provide protection, Celcure for example. Impregnated Douglas fir using creosote was destroyed by both Teredo and Limnoria. Summarising the author considers that it is uneconomic to import expensive timbers such as greenheart and azobe when local hardwood timbers Mvule and Manilkara for example treated give equal service. Treated Podo was found to be as good as treated imported Douglas and much cheaper.
42601488|An informal outline of some of Guatemala's forests, landscape, and people during a short private tour by a forester at large.
42602826|The author on a recent visit to West Africa was able to throw some light on complaints as to the infestation of wawa logs apparently otherwise in perfectly sound condition, due, he considers, to a Platypodid beetle (Symmerus tuberculatus chap.) It is widely distributed and reported from the Gold Coast, Nigeria, Togo, Uganda, Kenya and Northern Rhodesia. He lists other species, seven in number, all well known and mostly timber species, which it also attacks though not necessarily outside the Gold Coast. The galleries are described as "lined with a thick deposit of fungus (ambrosia)" and damage is confined to the heartwood. Platypodid damage is usually to freshly felled or damaged trees but has been known to occur in healthy standing trees although this is the only reported instance of attack when the trees are comparatively young. It is too early to suggest control measures but it may be that "investigation of the exact requirements of Triplochiton might prove more rewarding than attempts to combat the insect itself." Damage may be negligible and no living beetles or grubs have been found in the timber after conversion nor is reinfestation possible because the fungus on which it depends could not grow without moisture.
42600944|In a detailed study of radial variation in durability in teak (Tectona grandis) and its relationship to growth factors regarded as having a probable influence on durability, 16 trees, ranging from 14 to 180 years old, were selected and from 1 to 13 heartwood zones from each tree (83 heartwood zones in all) were tested for resistance to decay by Coniophora olivacea (Fr. ex Pers.) Karst, and by Coriolus versicolor (Fr.) Quel, by sawdust decay technique. In addition, blocks from 40 of these zones were tested against these fungi and against DFP6413, an unidentified fungus isolated from brown rot in teak, as well as against the subterranean termite Coptotermes lacteus (Frogg.). In general, the relative order of susceptibility of the zones tested was the same for all three fungi and for Coptotermes, although the general level of susceptibility was much lower for C. olivcea than for the other three organisms. The association between amount of attack produced in each type of bio-assay and the values of five different growth factors was examined by means of correlation analyses. The best overall correlation was that with the distance of the zone sampled from the pith (DP), closely followed by that with the age of the tree at the time the zone was being formed (AZ). Appreciably smaller correlations were obtained with the diametral growth rate during zone formation (GR), the age of the tree when felled (AF), and time elapsed since formation of the zone from sap wood to heartwood (TH).
42602798|The author quotes work by Brimblecombe in Queensland and then cites Mackay in Nigeria. He then describes starch assessments on thirty standing trees at Ofram in Ghana. Using the Phillips method for assessment, he applies them to Tryplochiton. Tables are given of monthly starch readings. The discussion concludes that if this species was felled at the end of the dry season, which is seldom practicable, it might be immune to attack by powder-post beetles, that air seasoning is not a satisfactory means of starch depletion, but that immediate kiln seasoning might be. There is a bibliography of nine items.
42600439|The evolution of management planning and of regulation of the cut in the United States and Canada has been assessed for the period from the turn of the century to the first part of the present decade. Approaches that have been developed and problems common to the United States and Canada are reviewed briefly. Moves toward formalisation and improvement of management planning and forces causing these changes are discussed. The paramount importance of "volume" methods of regulation is quite evident in North American planning. At the same time there is much evidence of interest in experimentation, in modification of established methods, and in development of new systems for regulating the cut. In the concluding discussion the need for flexibility in planning is recognised. At the same time it is suggested that the possibility of change should not be used as an excuse for no planning. Considering the high costs of securing his data, the management planner should be expected to use his information well, to plan carefully, and to plan wisely.
42602821|Part I in the March issue dealt with the basic facts on topography, climate, soils, area including forest area, distribution of population, demands on the forests with a short paragraph on shifting cultivation. Next the forest area was described in greater detail including notes on forest products, major and minor, and on the protective function of forests. Then the forest organisation was discussed under policy, staff, management, erosion and torrent control, past management and forest industries. Part II gives suggestions for the future and deals with such questions as forest problems, the forest policy, forest legislation, forest organisation and management, staff, education and research.
42600654|In Tanganyika, mortality in young Eucalyptus plantations due to termite attack is effectively controlled by mixing powdered insecticide with the soil of each planting hole. The cost is about Shs. 15s. per acre. Clean-weeding is preferred to "spot" weeding although it may aggravate termite damage. Competition is a more serious problem than termite attack in dry area afforestation.
42601489|The results of a field experiment carried out in 1957 on Thetford Chase Forest in East Anglia, using water-soluble fungicides on felled conifer logs for the prevention of sap-stain are discussed, together with the layout of the experiment under forest conditions. Scots and Corsican Pine (Pinus sylvestris. P. nigra var. calabrica), peeled and unpeeled logs random lengths with 6 inch top diameter over bark were selected, treated at four different localities, and quarter sawn at different intervals of time to analyse degree of prevention of sap-stain. Fungicides used were "Santobrite" (Sodium pentachlorophenate) and Sodium orthophenyl phenate. Chemical treatments applied to the logs significantly reduced the amount of stain, but not to the degree required by British Grading Rules. Those treated with Sodium pentachlorophenate had the least stain at the first assessment, but there was no significant difference between the two chemicals in their effect on the amount of staining at the later assessment. There were no significant effects from species, or any inter-actions of the sites, or treatments, but there was a highly significant inter-action between the effects of peeling and the dates of felling.
42602854|An attempt is made to deduce the extent and spread of Uganda's forests in the Christian era from climatic, historical and forestal evidence.
42602541|This article describes very briefly the location, extent and types of indigenous forest found in Iraq, and notes that shifting cultivation and fires are the main causes of their present decay. Inaccessibility sets limits at present to their utilization for supplies of fuel and charcoal, the principal items of produce, which are in great demand in this wood hungry land. Organized forest development has but hardly begun. There is as yet no independent forest service and no modern forest ordinance. None of the forests have been formally reserved, though a preliminary survey and inventory of the forests has been completed. The mountain forests of Iraqi Kurdestan play a vital protection role in the Tigris catchments. Projected irrigation works in the delta region of the twin rivers offer scope for a wide development in the future for irrigated forest plantations.
42601582|Density increased outwards from the pith and was associated with an increase in the diameter and proportion of the vessesl and a decrease in the proportion of fibres. Axial and ray parenchyma showed little change. The decrease in the proportion of fibres was more than counterbalanced by a decrease in mean width of fibre (without any change in wall thickness) resulting from a marked increase in the amount of intrusive growth in the fibres outwards from the pith. The length of the vessel members did not increase outwards.
42601776|Ideally, production and protection forests should occupy about 25 per cent of a country. In Uganda, circumstances prevent more than 8-9 per cent being reserved. This limited area must be chosen to the best advantage in relation to other claims: it cannot consist entirely of waste and marginal land. Reservations should be made early, using natural boundaries (e.g. rivers) for protection, and leaving the final areas and boundaries for later decision under planned land utilization policies. These major reservations are of little direct help to the peasant farmer, who needs a clump of trees nearby for his fuel, building poles and for shade. Figures obtained in the Kigezi area suggest that these "farm forests" should occupy about 4-5 per cent of the land in farm use. About half should be in clumps near the houses, and the remainder in communal plots on marginal and steep land, forming windbreaks and contoured washstops. Both large-scale and small-scale forestry developments must be closely integrated with an overall land utilization plan, on which a clearly announced policy of land use for the territory must be based.
42600312|Mr. Hamilton describes the work of the Pakistan Forest Department with emphasis on Soil Conservation and irrigated plantations. He tells of the vast reclamation scheme in the Thai desert which covers 5 million acres where the rainfall varies between six and 13 inches, of the vegetation of the region, of irrigation work started in 1939, suspended in 1942 until the end of the war, which has been resumed. It will now command 1 million acres of land, one-tenth of which has been devoted to afforestation, the objects being the production of firewood, charcoal and poles; fuel for townships, protection against sand drifts and to provide work for a large labour force. The work takes the form of 50 acre-lots of village forest to a total of 45,000 acres; compact blocks of 1,000 to 22,000 acres to a total of 100,000 acres; 5,000 acres of shelter belts along roads and irrigation channels and finally amenity blocks. He describes methods of formation, enumerates species used, then tells of the difficulties in execution, chief being shortage of water which is deplored as it may lead, since agriculture will inevitably be given priority, to a return of the pernicious custom of using cow-dung for fuel. Finally the author describes a visit to the flat, undulating land north of the Salt Range which is badly eroded. He commends the devoted pioneer work of the Pakistan Forest Department and suggests publication of their findings regarding arid region forestry.
42602274|It is unlikely that forestry will become a major industry in Cornwall, nevertheless it has most useful functions to perform, for example the supply of cheap poles, the provision of shelter belts mainly in a pastoral context, the improvement of the landscape in its aesthetic appeal and, last but not least, the provision of more employment in rural areas. The article states briefly the natural setting, its geology and climatology together with the historical background of Cornish forestry. It goes on to describe the present position as to both hard and softwoods in the region. Four forests in the Bodmin district are then dealt with at greater length, Bodmin itself, Glynn, Herodsfoot, and Wilsey Down. The illustrations of old and new forests cover two of the areas.
42602211|This account of the 10th Australian Forestry Conference is published through the assistance of a correspondent with the approval of the Director of the Forestry & Timber Bureau, Canberra, Mr. G. J. Rodger. It includes a mainly historical account of forestry in Australia by Mr. Gordon Freeth, Minister for the Interior. The agenda hinged on fifteen papers contributed by the F. & T. Bureau and the State services. The highlights are reflected in the seven Resolutions quoted in full, on Forest Inventories (to be compiled by 1965), Dedication of Land for Forestry (all forested and other Crown Land to be dedicated), Standardised Log Volume Measurement (the cubic foot, true volume recommended), Public Use of Forest Roads (where publicly used part of the maintenance costs should fall on public funds), Town Water Catchment Supplies (State Forest Authorities to control logging and other forestry operations), Forestry Research (a Forest Research Institute recommended F. & T. Bureau, the States C.S.I.R.O., the Universities and eminent scientists all co-operating), Forest Insects (Forest Authorities actively to pursue research into control). The Conference placed on record its sense of loss at the untimely death of Forester J. B. McAdam, of New Guinea.
42602187|The writer advocates a method of assessing extraction plans. He illustrates this method by examples and shows that, for any given set of conditions, deductions can be made which will give guidance for further planning. It remains only to suggest that the method be given practical trial.
42602651|This article, reprinted by courtesy of the publishers of The Comit National des Bois Tropicaux et Centre Technique Forestier Tropical, is by a well-known authority, who has great experience of the Gaboon, the Ivory Coast and the Cameroons, and who for several years has been chief on the exploitation side of the Compagnie Franaise du Camerouns. It details the distribution of expenditure on the exploitation of a Cameroons forest and, in the first part, headings refer to Expenses and Staff wages, Sundry supplies, Tractors and other vehicles, General expenses, Depreciation and Taxes, and, in the second part, to expenditure relating to various operations such as Survey, Felling, Tractor hauling, Cross-cutting, Sapwood removal, Barking, Preservation, Road construction and maintenance, Loading, Road transport, Unloading and Overhead expenses.
42601715|Every means of increasing timber production in the Gold Coast was sought in the early war years. Derelict machinery was available and was used by the Forestry Department in 1941-42 to build a sawmill at Kumasi. Production began in August 1942, and the mill was sold in February 1947. During four-and-a-half years 813,277 cubic feet of sawn timber was produced, and almost half of this was supplied to the British and American armed forces. African operators were successfully trained in machine work, and valuable experience was gained in the utilization of secondary species, in sawing practice and in seasoning. The selling price was always at least 25 per cent below that of commercial mills and, though the primary object of management was the production of the maximum quantity of sawn timber, a substantial profit was made.
42602653|1. Experimental plots in Black Wattle should be so laid out as to equalise any variations in the uniformity of the field introduced by silvicultural methods. The disposal of brushwood is the principal source of such variation. Stocking must be carefully controlled. 2. Wattle plots must never be less than four trees in width. Six or eight rows are still better. 3. For experiments to be carried till final felling a plot size of approximately one tenth acre is recommended. 4. Blocks of plots should be square or compactly rectangular. 5. Latin Squares are slightly more efficient than randomised blocks and Lattice designs are greatly superior to either, even with relatively few treatments. 6. The degree of replication required increases with the number of treatments and varies also with the type of design. Table 8 shows the replications required with different designs and treatment numbers. 7. Mature trees may be sampled for height and diameter by measuring at random one tree per row for height and two for diameter. 8. Young trees are less variable than mature trees. Experiments to be concluded by three years of age need have plots of only 1/20 acre in size, with fewer replications (see Table 11). 9. In sampling at one year of age every tree in a 1/20 acre plot should be measured, and every other tree at 3 years. With larger plots, samples of 40 and 20 trees per plot should be taken, at 1 and 3 years respectively. 10. It is much more economical in time, space and effort to work in young trees, and there is a case for doing the bulk of the experimenting, as far as possible, on results assessed at 3 years of age, carrying relatively few more elaborate experiments to maturity for confirmation.
42601991|The progress of forest policy in the British Commonwealth of Nations is reviewed. Starting with the resolution on policy passed at the first, and endorsed at each subsequent Empire Forestry Conference, the note shows that the first declaration of policy was made for India in 1894. Several of the colonial dependencies have followed on the lines laid down for India. Declarations of policy in the U.K. and the self-governing Dominions have lagged behind India and the colonies because policy is dependent on public opinion. It has required two world wars, with the consequent demand for timber, to arouse popular governments to safeguard their future timber supply by a declared policy. The note records recent progress, especially in Canada and the U.K., and shows that the scarcity of indigenous forests in South Africa has led to greater advance in a policy of afforestation than in other countries which were able to supply their requirements either internally or by imports. The lack of a declared policy in many countries is delayed by the failure, to date, in completing a survey of forests and forest resources.
42601484|It is with great sadness that we are publishing, posthumously, thanks to H. C. Dawkins of Uganda, the last work of Hedley Pudden, late I.F.S. and latterly Silviculturist, Kenya, whose obituary appears elsewhere in this issue. It contains a simple and ingenious idea for dispensing with the large area of surround by the clinal methods here illustrated. One application is given which covers a wide range of thinning intensities in Pinus patula.
42601425|The geographical setting of the United Provinces and the details of population and agriculture in each of the main natural divisions are described. The author then traces briefly the past history of the area leading up to the introduction of systematic forestry. A description of the forest shows the concentration of forests on the higher levels, with small scattered forests and trees confined to roads, canals, streams and about villages in the thickly populated Gangetic basin. There firewood is very scarce and the inhabitants are driven to the burning of farmyard manure. The role, creation and ownership of fuel plantations on private land is dealt with together with a description of recent steps taken to give tenants rights to the use of trees planted on their holdings. The development of fuel-fodder reserves on State land, especially along canals, roads and railways, is described and the utilization and improvement of uncultivated land. The article ends with a description of the latest planting technique, the steps taken towards the control of private treelands and the organization set up to deal with all these problems.
42599708|The use of keys in identification of trees is discussed, and standard terms suggested for use in a perforated card system, based on diagnostic features that can readily be observed during enumerations in tropical forest.
42602646|This article, amplified very slightly to conform to the author's original draft, and with his original title, is a reprint by courtesy of the publishers from the Truck Logger of October 1953. To quote that periodical, "Mr. Gilmour tells us that he believes the conclusions which he has reached to be the basis of a new concept. He thinks, "It is practical and just to all, and I believe it can be defended on the highest economic authority. It is not theory or guesswork".
42600978|The spatial distribution of the larger-sized trees of the more valuable (economically) species was determined on 17,280 plots within a large block of 4,320 acres, and these small plots were combined into various groups to give details of stocking by forty-four different sizes or shapes of plot. All the species considered showed that their distribution in space does not conform to the 'normal' Gaussian distribution or the Poisson, but is more related to a contagious distribution such as the Negative Binomial. Small sizes of Triplochiton and Khaya ivorensis appear to be related to the stocking of bigger sizes of the same species in space. Long, narrow samples running across the local drainage are likely to give the lowest sampling errors and may at times give results which can be treated as "normal" distributions.
42601876|This paper deals with the problem of water conservation when forest is replaced by grass-land. It is written with particular reference to East Africa, where widespread clearing in connexion with anti-tsetse work has been suggested. The operation of the hydrological cycle is discussed, and by examples from East Africa and elsewhere the possible effects of replacement of forest by grass-land are shown. The complexity of soil-vegetation-water relations is stressed, as is also the danger of generalizing from the results of one or two experiments. Decisions on the effect of clearing upon water supplies can only be made after assessment of a number of locality factors. This requires research and planning, and without such preliminary work widespread clearing may adversely affect water supplies.
42599474|A series of low percentage enumerations was laid out in South Mengo, Uganda, and analysed statistically to investigate the alleged unreliability of such work in tropical forest. It was found that precision, i.e. smallness of sampling errors, depended on density of the desired population as well as on the number of samples available. The actual percentage of the sample was, in fact, of little significance compared to its comminution and the density of the observed quantities within it. Sampling errors of less than 20 per cent were obtained on populations of more than two stems per acre by a 1 per cent dispersed plot enumeration of 7.5 square miles of highly variable forest. While dispersed plot enumerations gave more precise estimatesfor equal areas sampledthan transect methods, yet the relative cheapness of the latter made them more efficient except in special cases. When dealing with areas of from 5 to 15 square miles, two-per-half-mile stratified random chain-wide transects giving 5 per cent cover are advocated for estimating populations with densities from one to ten stems per acre. For lower population densities or smaller areas higher percentage cover is likely to be necessary, while with increasing population or area, lower percentages would give tolerable errors. Superimposed dispersed plot 20 per cent sub-samples of the transects were suitable for estimates of populations exceeding ten per acre, if more than one square mile was originally covered. It is urged that all management relying on enumeration results should be based on the lower fiducial limit and not on the mean of the sample. This value is more easily understood as the Reliable Minimum Estimate, a term here suggested for general use in forest sampling.
42602502|Cyprus being an agricultural country requires large quantities of wood fuel for domestic and industrial purposes. The source of supply ran short because of the devastation of the forests in the past. To improve matters Government introduced legislation in 1901, under which every village could have its own fuel area, but the law has never been applied partly because the villages did not like it and partly because the Forest Department was unable to organize supervision of the works with the limited staff available at the time. However by 1905 the Government had acquired large areas near the main towns, and began itself the establishment of forest plantations. These proved very successful and provided large quantities of firewood and also bark. Formation of forest plantations was revived again between 1922 and 1930 but on this occasion it failed partly because the villagers were hostile and partly because of lack of protection. In 1942 the formation of fuel areas, now called "village fuel areas" or "municipal areas" was started again but this time with financial assistance under Colonial Development and Welfare Schemes. On this occasion to ensure success, village public opinion was cultivated and the necessary protection was left to the care of the village councils. Also, techniques were developed which did away with watering, a very expensive operation. The work done so far is most satisfactory but it should, for the benefit of the community, be continued vigorously.
42601682|This paper describes shortly the main forest regions of Venezuela, the transportation and logging conditions, the main timber species and volumes, the legal and practical side of timber cutting and discusses briefly the possibilities in the future.
42599779|The writer has considered four of the major aspects of veneer and plywood manufacture and production, viz.: peeler logs, veneer manufacture and moisture content, plywood glues and utilization of waste. These trends are discussed in the light of recent advances in improvement of technique, utilization and research with a view to obtaining a higher conversion value under New Zealand conditions. Improvement should begin in the forest or plantation, to be followed by intensive research or investigation in the factory or mill during the conversion stage. With future development of the industry, problems such as waste utilization and moisture content control will require much further study and research.
42600947|In Tillamook county, Oregon, three fires over a period of eighteen years from 1933 destroyed a 355,000 acre tract of coast forest. Wartime demands made possible the initiation of the salvage of the abandoned stands; this still continues. Public clamour led to a rehabilitation programme, initiated in 1949. This is the largest in the United States. Fire protection has been greatly intensified. The tract is divided into major blocks by 200 miles of snag-free corridors of from one half to one mile wide. There are secondary fire breaks. Access roads have been constructed. Over 1,000,000 mags have been felled, 30,000 acres planted, 56,000 acres aerial seeded and 30,000 acres restocked naturally.
42602065|The paper describes the conditions prevailing in the private forests in East Bengal on the eve of the enactment of the East Bengal Private Forests Act 1949. As these forests are contained in widely-scattered patches and distributed among innumerable holdings, their management is very complicated. Recognition of lease-holders as "owners" in the Act has further complicated the matter. Possibilities of management of these forests on a co-operative basis have been discussed and suggestions offered.
42601636|The Forestry Commission of Great Britain has recently prepared a new working plans code. This code introduces a form of working plan designed to meet the needs of an expanding forest estate in a period of rapid economic, technological and political development throughout the world. A clear distinction is drawn between short, medium and long term planning and a method has been evolved of adjusting plans to meet changing circumstances without, at the same time, losing sight of the original objectives. The responsibilities towards working plans of the various technical grades within the Commission are clearly defined. The various planning and recording procedures of the new code have been introduced at all forests although it will take a number of years to complete the surveys and inventories and to write plans for all forests.
42600980|One-third of Oregon's economy is directly dependent on the forest resource. There is a labour force of 80 thousand with an annual output worth over $1,000 million. The end of the virgin timber is in sight and future dependence must rest on the management of second-growth forest. The state agency's activities include protection, forest land rehabilitation, enforcement of minimum forest practices, management of state holdings, provision of nursery stock, and advisory services to small owners. While forestry remains extensive the last ten years have seen major developments and changes in professional orientation.
42602682|The position of management plans in British Columbia is first indicated and their relation to sustained yield forestry is discussed. The history of the management programme for the region is sketched, starting as it did in its present form in 1947 in consequence of the recommendation of the 1945 Royal Commission on Forestry. The scope of the execution of these proposals is discussed, and at present 15 per cent of the Province's total productive area is under plans providing an annual harvest of 360 m. cu. f. or 38 per cent of the 1954 cut. The nature of management licences is then considered, and the conclusion drawn that when granted these have in general worked out satisfactorily. Public Working Circles are then described at some length and it is suggested that although formal plans have not yet been prepared for most of the Public Working Circles each phase of forestry has already been developed to a considerable degree in many areas. The importance of the Forest Inventory as a basis for management plans is then stressed and the provision of staff liaison in preliminary planning and its nature is discussed in detail. The conclusions are that the task is of great magnitude and that there is a big job ahead, that there has inevitably been a period of trial and error, but that this can be shortened with sound organization and the best use of available staff.
42602067|The occurrence of a crystalline deposit superimposed upon the familiar calcareous concretion frequently found in fissures in the wood of Chlorophora excelsa has been observed for the first time. The crystalline material has been identified as calcium malate, and it is considered probable that, in common with the more usual inorganic deposit, it is formed as a result of slow evaporation of sap which has seeped into cavities in the growing tree.
42601676|The physiography, climate, vegetation of the habitat and the distribution and site requirements of seven tannin-bearing eucalypts are given; the species are: E. astringens, E. gardneri, E. falcata, E. occidentalism E. spathulata, E. brockwayi and E. dundasi. The silviculture of these species is discussed, in particular that of E. astringens (brown mallet). Existing data indicates that brown mallet may be as profitable as wattle as a source of tannin, and its timber is more valuable because it is a satisfactory substitute for hickory. Brown mallet is less selective in its growth requirements than wattle and should prove valuable in afforestation.
42601579|Individual areas of a map which are required to be determined are transferred on to a thin tracing medium, cut out and weighed. The areas are calculated on the assumption that the surface areas of the dissected portions are directly proportional to their weights. Of the two different tracing materials that were examined, "Ethulon", a plastic sheet, was found to be superior to ordinary tracing paper provided that all samples are taken from strips running the length of the roll.
42599867|In this paper the conditions governing forest management, the forest policy, land tenure, finance, forest type, markets and methods of exploitation, are explained, then the silvicultural and management techniques now under trial are described and discussed.
42602432|At the end of 1941, when the war had reached a critical stage, it was evident that the United Kingdom would have to rely more and more on its own timber resources.There appeared to be no prospect of an early termination of hostilities and doubts were expressed whether the woodlands of the country would stand the strain. The Home Timber Production Department, which was responsible for maintaining supplies of home-grown timber, both departmentally and by the trade, decided, therefore, to undertake a census of the standing timber in England and Wales. A complete census was not possible in the time available and a sampling method had to be adopted. The article describes the methods and technique employed and reviews the results that were obtained.
42600512|This note describes an investigation to examine the effect of staining by the bluestain fungus (Lasiodiplodia theobromae) on the strength properties of ramin (Gonystylus sp.). There is a progressive reduction in bending strength, stiffness and toughness with the growth of the fungus, but losses in the first two are insignificant even with appreciable staining of the wood. The loss in toughness is significant.
42600977|In Sind, the riverain forests, which are edaphic formations, cover an area of half a million acres (750 square miles) on the banks of the River Indus. Until now these forests have been managed to produce firewood for Karachi and other big towns. Recently an alternative and cheaper source of fuel, viz. natural gas, has been discovered, and the firewood from these forests will no longer be needed. It is, therefore, necessary to change over to timber species. The annual floods, to a depth of 3 ft.6 ft. in these forests, along with deposition of large quantities of silt resulting in continual change in ground level, and also the fact that all areas are eroded every 30-40 years, greatly limit the choice of species.
42602273|A general description is given of the mangrove forests in the delta of the Kikori and Purari Rivers. A detailed examination was made of the barks from Rhizophora mucronata, R. apiculata, Bruguiera gymnorrhiza and B. parviflora. Bark from the first three species is used as raw material by a recently established factory for the manufacture of mangrove tannin extract (cutch). The resources of tan-bark species in the area are discussed, and also the uses and possible future applications of cutch. Suggestions for utilizing the woody portion of the tree are given.
42601777|Trapnell's Vegetation-Soil Map and Memoir, the result of over fifteen years' labour, are reviewed. Some improvements and additions are suggested for the final form of this valuable contribution to information on African vegetation.
42601728|Recent investigations at the Forest Products Research Laboratory, Princes Risborough, have indicated that the sapwood of hardwoods can be protected from infestation by Lyctus Powder-post beetles during seasoning or storage, by treatment with a D.D.T. spray. The formulation at present recommended is a water emulsion containing at least 2 per cent D.D.T. and is readily prepared from-commercially available miscible oil concentrates of D.D.T. by the addition of the required amount of water.
42600503|Specimens from 18 teak trees, ranging in age from 7 to 270 years, and representing natural and plantation grown trees from several countries, were tested in the laboratory for resistance to decay and to termite attack and for extractive content. The resistance to decay by Coniophora cerebella Pers, and by Trametes lilacino-gilva Berk, of blocks cut from outer (or in some cases middle or inner) heartwood, and of sawdust representing a sector from pith to outer heartwood, varied widely for diffrent trees, and there was no reliable correlation with origin (plantation or natural), age, size, or rate of growth of tree. There was some indication of a correlation between decay resistance and the amount of material removed by methanol extraction after preliminary extraction with ether. Resistance to attack by the subterranean termites Coptotermes lacteus (Frogg.) and Nasutitermes exitiosus (Hill) of blocks cut from the outer (or in some cases middle or inner) heartwood also varied widely and there was no significant difference between plantation and natural grown teak, although there was a positive correlation of termite resistance with age of tree and extractive content. Resistance to decay and termite attack was lower in the centre of some trees than in the highly durable outer heartwood, but was greater than that of the heartwood of Eucalyptus regnans F. Muell. used as a control; teak sapwood samples were less resistant than the underlying heartwood but much more resistant than E. regnans heartwood. It is concluded that some trees of Tectona grandis commence to form durable heartwood at a very early age, whilst others continue to produce non-durable heartwood for many years. Further investigations are being made of reasons for this difference, as well as studies of the nature and toxicity of the extractive materials in teak.
42602504|The measurement of light intensity in forestry practice is a problem which requires further investigation. The variations in radiation and the difficulties met in two methods of light measurement are described.
42602687|Work in other arid zones is mentioned including costs, extent, and successful species, related particularly to Changa Manga in the Punjab. Chapman's work at Hawija and at Abu Ghraib farm then receives comment. Successful species are named. The lack of data on water use in Iraq is deplored, but a 15 per cent share of commandable irrigation water is suggested for forestry plantation work. There is a general timber shortage in Iraq; measures to combat this in consultation with F.A.O. are indicated. These measures should include dispersed irrigated village fuel plantations and also shelterbelts. Species of timber value receive comment, e.g. Eucalyptus dundasi, and various Acacias, etc., named as likely shelterbelt species. The need for overall planning is stressed with careful costing and there should be no privileged rates for the use of water in forestry operations.
42600246|The object of the paper is to discuss how the Tropical Forests, which are made up of many species of trees, shrubs, climbers and herbs, regenerate, and how the composition changes in space and time. The first part describes the author's own observations in Central India in the Tropical Deciduous Forest during a service of nearly 30 years, and refers to the experience of Forest Departments in India. The second part is a review of published writings from Africa, Asia and tropical America and gives extracts from many papers which refer to the course of regeneration in the Tropics. The author believes this is the first time that an attempt has been made to collate the observations of writers from all over the Tropics. The third part is an attempt to draw the threads together and to indicate how the analysis set out in the paper could influence Research and Management in the Tropical Forests. It is suggested that the Tropical Mixed Forest does not form a stable climax community with a fixed make-up, and that Foresters and Ecologists working in the Tropics should cut free from the ecological concepts developed in temperate countries.
42602859|1. The best existing account of tropical tree volume table construction describes the application of various mathematical curves to fit the data. The fitting process is laborious and a quicker method was sought. 2. It is known that tropical high-forest trees put on little timber height once near the mature girth-range, and that subsequent increment approximates to a simple increase in diameter. 3. An inherent linear relation should therefore exist between square-root-volume and girth. This tendency is proved. 4. The volume table may therefore be constructed by calculating the regression of square-root-volume on girth, testing the coefficient, and then squaring calculated square-root volumes. 5. Such a construction is described in detail, together with the Griffith tests that should be applied to the results. 6. In the present case, where form heights approximate to a horizontal linear relation with girth, a special application to enumeration sampling is described. 7. A selection of typical volume tables for Uganda timber trees is graphically compared.
42600857|The pulp and paper industry as at present established in New Zealand draws its raw material from large exotic forests on the central North Island plateau. Their establishment and subsequent general history are well known to all. This paper is confined to this region because as yet it is only here that the pulp and paper industry has had a large-scale influence. This paper seeks to show the impact these large integrated industries are having on such an even-aged, unmanaged estate, their only available source of supply. It outlines the problems thus created and the measures to be taken in future to provide an everincreasing supply of high quality produce from these forests.
42602309|The growth of Pinus insularis on the Copperbelt in North Rhodesia is described. Rates of growth and volumes obtained are given and compared with those of Pinus patula in Southern Rhodesia and South Africa. The quality of the timber is discussed and results from the Philippines and of P. khasiya in the Belgian Congo are given and compared with those of P. patula in South Africa. In conclusion, though tree form is sometimes poor in youth, P. insularis is stated to be the most successful softwood introduction to N. Rhodesia.
42601422|This article reviews in a broad sense the help which air photography can give to foresters. Air survey is by now a proven means for timber stocking and general forest management. Although it is costly initially it is in the long run cheaper than the old ground methods and several interpreters on sets of the same photographs can get much the same information as they would be able to get on laborious ground work. This article deals with air survey for forestry and mapping together as the same photographs can be used to produce stock maps and topographical maps and in cases where costs may be high, two parties wishing to have the same area surveyed for different reasons may find it profitable to share the costs. This may be the case particularly in concession areas where modern large-scale maps aie non-existent but nevertheless of prime importance to planned economic development. Several methods of combining a forestry and topographical survey are described as well as the methods of air survey applicable only to forestry. The merits of summer and winter photography are discussed and also the optimum scale for prints. The writer finishes by suggesting that the time is ripe for considering the recruitment of trained interpreters into forestry companies or vice versa the training of promising young foresters in photo-interpretation so that with the growth of photographic cover of forest lands there is no dearth of people to interpret the detail it holds.
42601782|A disease attacking young trees of Eucalyptus globulus in Kenya is described. The disease, caused by Botrytis cinerea Pers. has been observed once only during the exceptionally wet year of 1946. The fungus attacks juvenile foliage only. It causes desiccation of the leaves and stem and branch cankers.
42602024|Scotland has a 50 per cent share in the afforestation programme for the next fifty years in Great Britain. Her smaller industrial area and her potential production of softwood timber in the future make it important that economic markets should be established and maintained. Her traditional experience of softwoods will stand her in good stead so far as production is concerned, but there is still much to be done in the search for new methods of manufacture and research into the requirements of other appropriate markets. The development of new markets for the smaller dimension produce is now paramount. Reduction of transport costs by peeling the trees and seasoning the timber at or near the forest areas is urged. By doing so more markets are possible.
42601774|In Cyprus wood is the only kind of fuel produced and until quite modern times was the only source of heating available in the island. As a result in recent years of the doubling of the population, of advances in industrialization and of two world wars during both of which imports of fuel were cut off and considerable allied armies were supplied from local resources, a very acute fuel problem has arisen. In the areas where most of the population is centred, wood fuel is no longer to be found and even the less populated districts have only a small surplus for disposal. In the main State forests, where resources were strained to the utmost during the Second World War, adequate supplies no longer exist and even if they could be made available for a time by further over-exploitation, it is certain that distance would make it impossible to arrange for distribution to all the centres of consumption. The consequent rise in fuel prices has led at times to widespread felling of fruit trees for fuel and there is a constant danger of a recurrence of this practice. 2. For some years before 1939 it had been realized that a serious situation was arising and that Government efforts would be powerless to deal with it unless supported by energetic private enterprise. The Second World War merely brought affairs to a head, so that in 1941 the matter was taken in hand. Legislation sufficient to deal with the situation already existed in the Forest Laws and with the aid of a grant from the British Treasury a start was actually made in 1942 on the creation of Village Fuel Areas. Since then up to the end of 1947, seventy-four of such Fuel Areas have been created and nearly 3000 acres of plantation successfully established, at a cost of 48,000. 3. The primary aim of the Village Fuel Area scheme is the production of wood fuel near to the centres of consumption and the relief of pressure for fuel on the more vulnerable main State Forests by planting land in the plains which is of too poor quality for agriculture or other more profitable form of land use. The principal species used are wattle (Acacia cyanophylla) and eucalyptus (E. gomphocephalla and tereticornis), which are fast growing and coppice freely. Cypress is also planted for production of roofing poles and the slower-growing carob (Ceratonia siliqua) is also used on calcareous soils not only for the production of fuel but for carob beans for animal fodder. In actual fact the scheme has achieved an even greater success than a mere statement of areas would suggest, for the demonstration of proper planting methods and the realization by the public of the eventual profits to be gained from the correct use of derelict land has resulted in widespread private planting with planting stock made available in Government nurseries. 4. The actual establishment of the Village Fuel Areas is carried out by the village authorities under advice and supervision from the Government forest staff. The initial cost of establishment is paid by the State, a fund being allotted to the village and administered by the village authorities, subject to scrutiny of payments by responsible Government officers. The subsequent maintenance and protection of the plantations are the responsibility of the village and revenue from the sale of fuel is paid into the village fund. These arrangements have so far worked with hardly a failure and it is a striking fact that the very villages which were originally responsible for the destruction of the forests of the plains are now the most active in the protection of the new plantations.
42602314|In some Commonwealth countries the existing methods of collecting timber revenues are being called in question. The manner in which fees and royalties are levied is sometimes thought to be unduly cumbersome and ill-adapted to the current needs of the timber industry and of forest departments. The author describes the problem as posed in the Western Region of Nigeria and, in answer to a request, puts forward a formula for calculating an equitable charge for standing timber. Some of the main controversial issues between the forest department and the trade are provided as an historical background. The proposals include suggestions about procedures for using accounting and prices data when determining appropriate charges. The disadvantages of a flat rate are recognised in view of such variables as accessibility, volume per acre, conversion ratios and quality. A points system of weighting is recommended for the payment of "deficiency payments" from the standard or flat-rate prices for rendering more equitable treatment to the less favoured exploiters.
42600467|An attempt has been made to organise the numerous "one-man" loggers in British Guiana into co-operative logging societies. By this it was hoped to achieve inter alia: (1) Improved logging methodsgreater efficiency, production, etc. (2) Systematic exploitation by blocks in place of random creaming of the forestsleading towards planned management. (3) Improved standard of living for the loggers. Preliminary results are encouraging, but there appears to be need for heavier capitalisation and also for more staff to ensure stricter supervision of the societies.
42602686|The Punjab, a province of West Pakistan lying in the sub-tropical latitudes, has a severe continental type of climate. It suffers from high natural aridity and extremes of temperatures. Excessive pressure of population on land in the recent past in the Punjab led to further desiccation, accelerated soil erosion and land degradation. At present various techniques are being followed to reclaim and rehabilitate the different categories of deteriorated soils. Cultural operations aiming at soil and water conservation are carried out to combat the menace of soil erosion. Badly ravined lands are levelled and terraced with heavy earth-moving machinery. Desert fringe belt receiving less than ten inches of annual rainfall is being restocked with drought-resistant woody and forage species. Some of the barren waste lands are being turned into irrigated forest plantations with canal water. The saline and alkali soils are being reclaimed by flooding and growing rice with large quantities of water. More research is needed to further refine and improve our present reclamation techniques and management practices for rehabilitation of degraded soils.
42602860|The Mediterranean Cypress is next in importance as a forest tree to the pines. It grows well along the northern range of mountains and is used extensively as a windbreak around orchards. The growth is slow, but it can be accelerated by irrigation when a height growth of 7 feet or more per annum is not uncommon. The species prefers calcareous soils, but it does well on any other type of soil providing it is deep and fresh. It is highly shade tolerant and retains the branches for a very long time. Pruning is injurious because of the inability of the tree to occlude its wounds unless painted with some antiseptic. The species reproduces itself freely from seed, but also by coppicing if the stem is cut off above the lowest whorl of branches. The timber is durable and is used extensively in building construction.
42602498|A comparison between the Tennessee Valley. Authority and its Indian counterpart, the Damodar Valley Corporation, shows that the experience gained in the oldest American "valley project" is of great value to those attempting similar projects elsewhere. A serious initial handicap for the D.V.C. is shown to be its legislative act which encourages interference from local political forces when a clear and firm board management undisturbed by political issues is the essential need. Details are given of a 15-year programme which has been drafted for afforestation of down-at-heel forest, reclamation of eroding waste, and recruiting and training of a soil conservation extension service to help the peasants to stop erosion in farm lands.
42601638|The "Miombo Conference" as it became popularly known must be regarded surely as the highlight of the forestry year, and as such deserves more than passing note in Forest Newsletter. This Supplement therefore tries to give an overall picture of the meeting, including the lighter side as well as the scientific and professional aspects. The Agenda is given together with recommendations arising out of it, one of which (IX) concerned a recommendation of those papers to be adopted as working documents, 16 in all, for the Conference. A full list is given of papers submitted, 32 in all, from many territories.. This symposium ends with "Impressions of an Observer" by D. C. Cumming; "Impressions about Inventory and Management" by H. M. N. Lees; "A Botanists Impressions" by D. B. Fanshawe; "Impressions of the Utilisation Officer" by B. E. Webb, and finally "Further Impressions," by Messrs. G. N. Cooling and G. H. D. Williams.
42601713|An attempt is made to summarize the conditions facing foresters in Palestine when the British Mandate began, and to trace the achievements of the last quartercentury, beginning with the period when F. J. Tear, B. A.(Oxon), Dip. For.(Oxon), was Chief Forest Officer and Deputy Director of Agriculture and Forests, through the Conservancy of G. N. Sale, B. Sc.(For.)(Edin.), the first head of the separate Forest Department, and ending with current events under the Acting Conservancy of A. Y. Goor, M.B.E., M.S., Ph.D., Dip.For(Oxon.). These divisions are mere conveniences, of course, and no attempt has been made to observe them rigidly. Then follows a summary of results achieved, and developments planned when the Mandate terminated.
42602216|It is suggested that the insect responsible for many of the ambrosia-beetle tunnels found in the wood of apparently sound Wawa logs from Ghana is a recently named species of platypodid, Trachyostus ghanaensis Schedl, and not Chaetastus (=Symmerus) tuberculatus (Chap.). The application of preventive measures depends on knowledge of the conditions under which Wawa becomes susceptible to attack. In this respect defoliation by caterpillars of the genus Anaphe is a possible predisposing factor.
42601545|It is possible to programme electronic digital computers to carry out calculations at very high speeds, and to follow complex series of instructions without error. Dependent upon these abilities, methods of operational research enable important practical problems to be simulated and solved. These developments are immediately relevant to, and will play an important part in, forest management. Edited text of a talk given to Section K* (Forestry) of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, Norwich, 1961.
42602819|New Zealand's economy is based on its agricultural and pastoral industries but its exotic forest estate is assuming increasing importance. The area of drifting sand although only 0.4 per cent of the total land area can reach 4 per cent in certain districts. Policy for the sand dune country is stated by the author who explains measures taken to implement it. There are at present four schemes based on establishing permanent cover of the foredunes using marram grass and yellow lupins. Slow progress was made by manual means so mechanisation was sanctioned in 1953. Comparison of the relative efficiency of the two methods is made and developments are described of planting machines adapted to the particular purpose. The likely difficulties to be encountered receive mention and the savings, of the order of 50 per cent, which can be effected are stressed. An appendix quoted from the N.Z.F.S. Annual Report 1954-55 gives information on the four projects now in hand.
42602581|Existing methods of tropical forest silviculture seek to improve the economic growing stock by cutting, girdling or poisoning the worst of the weeds. These techniques (except for successful poisoning) are usually incomplete as the crop is not permanently freed of its encumbrances. Because the work has been treated as a series of separate operations no single objective has been stated. The real objective should be a thorough refining of the forest; this term is proposed and the concept described. Forest refining means the complete elimination of lianes, weed and defective trees, shrubs and herbs, subject to silvicultural desirability and the objects of the working plan. Refining is shown to be a practical proposition since the discovery fourteen years ago of effective hormonal herbicides, and their recent use as contact arboricides.
42602428|The efficiency of forestry as a method of land utilization is to be measured ultimately by the relationship between costs of production and incomes received, including in the latter any indirect benefits derived from the presence of woodland.The fertility of the soil and the extent to which climatic conditions are favourable are the principal factors which determine the physical productivity of any site. A danger in forestry in Britain at the present time is that land of such low grade, in terms of physical productivity, may be relegated to forestry that no adequate return on the costs of management is possible. It is demonstrated, however, that the liability for disease to occur rises as the fertility of the site falls. Losses owing to disease have thus to be added to inadequate returns owing to a poor growth rate.The economic disadvantage of a site is thus, as a rule, greater than is indicated by estimates based on actual growth rates, and this is so to an increasing degree the less fertile the site. It can also be demonstrated that the losses owing to disease become increasingly great the less the species grown is adapted to the locality.This is a matter of very great importance in a country such as Britain where most of the economic forest crops are exotic and comparatively little understood ecologically.Moreover, any species is, to a greater or less extent, a variable any one strain of which may be more or less suited to a locality than another. Under these circumstances three types of things are essential to efficient forestry: first that the factors which determine growth rate throughout the life of the tree shall be understood so that site fertility may be adequately estimated; second that the relative suitability of the species available to any site shall properly be appreciated; thirdly that the inherent variability of a species shall also be adequately understood so that its economic use may be as efficient as possible.
42601155|The development of coal-mining in Enugu in about 1912 led to the formation of a plantation to supplement the supplies of mangrove pitprops brought by rail from Port Harcourt. The props were required in lengths of 4 to 12 foot, with a minimum top diameter of 1 inch per foot. Despite a rainfall of 72 inches per annum, silviculture was not easy on the heavily-farmed and degraded lateritic soil of the area. Of many species tried, Tectona grandis and Gmelina arborea have proved the most satisfactory. Both are now grown on a coppice and clear-felling system with a fifteen-year rotation; this produces at least one 12-foot pitprop per tree. Both are equally acceptable as mining timbers and have similar silvicultural demands. Gmelina is less exacting than teak, but has a pronounced tendency to taper. New plantations are established by taungya farming (tree planting with an agricultural crop).
42602310|A preliminary survey was undertaken to investigate the conditions under which the species grows and special features of the tree in relation to these, in order to examine the factors influencing natural regeneration and to suggest silvicultural treatment to secure this. It was found that the root system of the tree keeps pace with fluctuations in the surface water level by the growth of pneumotophores. It also reacts to forest light conditions by strong phototropism. Light conditions and water level are critical factors in regeneration, and a clear-felling system is advocated to obtain this. A suitable method of collecting and extracting seed is suggested. Under natural conditions economic use of the species is precluded by its slow girth increment, and the improvement of this is the next major problem.
42601067|Ground-effect or air-cushion machines are discussed. Illustrated by line drawings the principles used in various types are enunciated. Allied Types receive mention. Land and amphibian craft are now possible and their economics are discussed briefly and referred to their possible use in logging operations. Caution in the application of present data to forestry is recommended, but it may be that such craft will be found to have possible application in forestry so that the result of experimental trials in West Africa are awaited with interest.
42600973|The place of the Forestry Division in the planned land use of savannah regions is discussed. Salient points are: (1) The need to assess all sites for their potential as producers of forest crops before finalising any land allocation. (2) The need to have proper hydrological studies made before deforesting or afforesting watersheds. (3) The urgent necessity to institute production of bush meat on a sustained yield basis whilst this is still possible.
42600979|An investigation was made into the resistance of ten species of Australian timber (Family Myrtaceae), used in the mines at Broken Hill, to decay by fungi present there. Samples of the most abundant species, Eucalyptus pilularis, were examined for intratree differences in resistance and inter-tree differences among trees grown in certain districts; no significant differences existed. There was no significant difference between samples of E. pilularis obtained from several districts throughout its range. Significant differences in resistance existed among the ten species of timber. Their relative resistance toward two brown-rotting fungi corresponded closely, but it was entirely different toward a white-rotting fungus. For all fungi, the between-tree variance was low in resistant species, but high in susceptible species.
42601681|The Conference impressed the writer with the development and complexity of chemical Weed Control in Agriculture. Much of it is quite new. This contribution is intended for foresters who lack -much close acquaintance with the subject. The question whether more use could be made of this branch of Agricultural Chemistry in Forestry practice is briefly discussed.
42602688|Sand dune reclamation has been practised in Cyprus for the last 50 years. Successful works are the Plantations of Salamis, Famagusta and Limassol which were planted to Acacia cyanophylla, Pinus pinea, Eucalyptus rostrata, E. tereticornis and E. gomphocephala. The pine and Eucalyptus attained a girth of over 6 feet within 40 years, while the wattle was cut for firewood on a 7-10 years rotation. Canes, Tamarix, Dodonea and Lycium barbarum were also tried successfully near the shore. Attempts to reclaim the Ayia Erini sand drifts were made between 1925-1929 but failed, partly because of wrong technique and partly because of leaving the area unprotected after 1931. Reclamation was attempted again in 1940 using one year old nursery seedlings and watering during the first rainless summer. At the same time experiments were carried out which demonstrated that pines could be raised from seed in situ provided the soil temperature was lowered. Superficial water was not a limiting factor because of the pine's long tap root. Soil temperature was lowered by sowing on ridges or mounds or by dressing the planting site with white soil which does not absorb so much heat. By direct planting, costings were reduced to less than 1/20th of the original cost. Wattle, unlike the pine, uses superficial water because it has no definite tap root and a widely spread root system. It can be buried 2 or 3 feet deep with advantage. This helps to support the young plant and keeps it in a moist horizon. Wattles, 4 inches in diameter and 15 feet high, were raised in 9 months by watering the plants twice a week during the hot summer. As a preliminary to reclamation, the active dunes were put under control either by making fences 4-5 feet high or by covering the area with brush wood. This is essential for about a year or two until the wattle grows up and checks the wind. Tamarix and canes are also useful hedge plants near the shore as both of them are tolerant of salt spray.
42599865|A brief review of Western Samoa's history and geography, its features of geology and topography, its climate and soils, its vegetation and problems of forestry and land-use. The author, an ex-Forest Officer of the Burma Forest Service who has recently served in New Zealand, made a trip to Samoa in company with Colin Marshall of the C.F.S. and they compiled a joint report, recently published, on their visit. For permission to publish this article we are indebted to the Government of New Zealand and particularly to Mr. A. R. Entrican, Director of Forestry.
42600509|The author with unique experience of the species, gives some notes on occurrence, primary conversion, uses, conversion in preparation for making musical instruments, defects, seasoning, grading and packing of the timber of African blackwood (Dalbergia melanoxylon).
42601424|This was written at the request of Mr. A. P. F. Hamilton, C.I.E., O.B.E., M.C., Inspector-General of Forests for India, and is intended to form one of a series which will show current progress in forestry in the various provinces of India. In the Punjab, apart from the spectacular war effort in exploitation to meet the enormous demands for Himalayan coniferous planking, there has arisen a better appreciation of the value of Sissoo (Dalbergia sissoo) as a general utility hardwood which to a considerable extent has taken the previous place of Teak. Sissoo is therefore being widely used for afforestation and the reclamation of torrent-ruined lands. This work and the better management of degraded grazing land now form new obligations which will require new forest divisions for each of the plains civil districts. The fixation of shifting sands in the southern districts along the desert fringe has not yet been seriously tackled, and a vast amount of work, for which our present staff is quite inadequate, has still to be attempted if agricultural prosperity is to be secured.
42602801|Control of termite attack on Eucalyptus citriodora was investigated in a randomised block experiment, employing two insecticides applied in various ways. Dieldrin treatment of the planting-holes resulted in the best survival of the trees. Treatment with Agrocide 7 (B.H.C.) gave inferior results. For both insecticides, broadcast spraying of the site before planting was not so effective as treatment of plant-pots and/or planting-holes. Agrocide 7 appeared to have an adverse effect on height growth.
42600943|Eucalyptus botryoides, E. saligna and E. pilularis seedlings were grown in perlite culture. Some were supplied with a "complete" nutrient solution, others with solutions low in N, P, K, Mg or Ca. Seedlings supplied with a low level of N or P developed few or no branches. A low level of K produced more extensive branching than normal, due to a reduction in internode length, the growth of a branch in every main-stem leaf axil and some second order branching. E. botryoides and E. saligna seedlings supplied with a low rate of Mg produced drooping branches and leaves that were larger than normal. After a period of normal growth, seedlings starved of Ca suddenly stopped growing and died; in the case of E. pilularis death was preceded by the production of many abortive axillary branches.
42600465|The Forest Department in Tanganyika is unique in having a Beekeeping Division. The Division began in 1949 with one man sharing a table in an agricultural office and has grown into a research and teaching organisation employing some one hundred and ten persons. Research is carried out on everything concerning beekeeping and bee products. Most of the staff are employed on extension work and propaganda. An education system has been established and advisory work extends even into other countries. Research and extension work proceed hand in hand. Legislation plays its part and there is close liaison with other departments and neighbouring governments.
42602308|Impressions are given of an industrial "tree farm" and a federal experimental forest, representative of the more enlightened pine management practices. Management on the units described is in advance of prevailing practice, but the tracts described and the problems discussed are typical of the region. Reference is made to some of the problems encountered by the western American forester in his efforts to bring the natural yellow pine stands of this semi-arid region under management under present economic conditions and extensive management, while providing for the harvesting of over-mature and deteriorating growing stock. Consideration is given to questions of insect and disease control, harvesting, management, and the development of silvicultural practice. The Unit Area Control is briefly considered.
42601070|Soil treatment with gibberellic acid is generally not advised since it seems to be accepted that the substance is rapidly inactivated in the soil. However, recent experiments have demonstrated the following effects from the application of gibberellic acid to soils of different types: 1. Increase in the water-retaining capacity of the soils; 2. Suppression of some of the natural soil vegetation, i.e., algae and mosses; 3. Reduction in size of the root systems of the experimental plants, accompanied by marked stimulation of root-hair formation and total suppression of fungal infections.
42600470|It is noted that it is difficult to arrive at a practical direct method of light measurement for forest purposes, but it is suggested that the difficulties can be evaded and a measurement of lighting conditions in forests obtained sufficiently accurate for most silvicultural purposes by taking vertical photographs in the forest and from them measuring the degree to which the sky is obscured. Details of a suggested technique for this are given and the whole is illustrated by a practical application in lowland dipterocarp forest in Malaya.
42601880|Describes the work of forest reconnaissance and stock mapping in Iraqi Kurdestan, for part of which a Bell Aircraft Company helicopter was employed. The advantages over ground surveys of forest sketch mapping from such a machine are noted, and the article concludes with some comments on flying in a helicopter.
42600945|While for centuries agriculturists have been growing their crops "pure" and have been selecting and breeding their plants for increased production and better quality, it is only comparatively recently that foresters have started to do the same thing. Indeed many believe that the mistakes which have been made by foresters endeavouring to establish and maintain artificial forests result in the main from the departure from natural forest conditions. This paper stresses the danger of adopting the concept of the natural forest as a basis for silviculture. In furthering his arguments the author gives instances where silyicultural practice based on the attributes of the natural forest such as mixed species, mixed ages or the use of native species, may lead to worse rather than better growth.
42601068|The author describes his visit to the mountainous region of Central Java, tells of the volcanoes he saw there and of the vegetation, indigenous and exotic, of the mountain slopes. He went, inter alia, to Soerabaya where he deplores the passing of former glories.
42601390|(1) Many species of the mixed deciduous forest can, as seedlings, survive the usual type of surface forest fire and can live on for years getting burnt back annually. (2) Many species of the mixed deciduous forest in the seedling coppice condition, and possibly as seedlings, can survive the more intense fire caused by felling and burning the overhead cover. (3) In the shade of a number of different forests there is normally on the ground an advance growth of seedling coppice which is at least equal to half plantation (6 ft.  6 in.) density of stocking and is often of a lot higher density. Amongst this seedling coppice valuable species especially teak are often well represented. (4) This advance growth can be helped on to establishment by cutting, burning and subsequent tending. Taungya cultivation can be done for one year without noticeable mortality in the young tree crop. Where taungya cultivation is done regeneration can be established very cheaply. (5) There are crops suitable for soils which will not suit hill paddy and the education of the cultivator to grow these crops could enable taungya to be used for natural regeneration in many places where it is not used now.
42602114|The importance of the fishing industry in the Gold Coast, both from the dietetic and economic viewpoints, is briefly discussed. It is shown that canoes play a vital part in the industry and that, apart from the wood from which the hulls are made, a large number of other forest products are essential, not only for the equipping of these vessels, but for the proper functioning of other phases of the industry.
42600975|Forestry schools in Britain are producing forestry graduates in excess of current demand and without some of the qualifications which are required today. Compulsory practical training before entrance to university, a reduction in the number of forestry schools and the introduction of entrance examinations are necessary to avoid overproduction and to improve the standard of candidates. The importance of English, economics and the basic sciences is stressed, and the introduction of a course designed so that it would be possible to concentrate either on silviculture and management or on wood technology and utilisation is suggested. Finally, the desirability is urged of setting up a board to advise on forestry education in the future.
42599643|The term "working plan" is defined and planners are divided into (1) the orthodox who require detailed maps, enumerations, etc., before special staff can prepare fully detailed plans, and (2) the evolutionists who encourage territorial staffs to develop a gazette notice or a planting scheme to the stage of planning actuallyrequired at the time. The revision of a Uganda plan is reviewed as an example of evolution. The present intensity of tropical African utilization is shown to be about 4 cubic feet an acre a year. The use of large homogeneous compartments to reduce office work in extensive forestry is noted.
42600247|Several accounts of South African forestry have recently appeared in this Journal, in particular those of M. H. Scott and J. S. Beard, which make a detailed description unnecessary. This article will, therefore, be written largely from the standpoint of a private afforestation scheme in the Midlands of Natal with a discussion of silvicultural and other technical and management problems there in the light of recent developments.
42599866|This is the second article from the pen of Major-General Hutson (see Vol. 30, No. 4), who is in charge of Forestry Commission roads. He takes the subject a stage further than he did in his former article and discusses first the value of low cost roads. He goes on to deal with extraction requirements under ten different heads then with various methods of improving the bearing capacity of roads. Next he suggests means of waterproofing roads, touches on principles of design and construction of roads on peat and then deals with the organisation of road work. Foresters will agree wholeheartedly with his conclusion which is roughly that roads are essential to the proper pursuit of efficient forestry.
42601679|In this article the author, a well-known Canadian forest economist, outlines his formula for determining the rental to be charged on forest lands.
42602275|A year of weekly girth measurements on rain-forest trees in Mpanga Research Forest has demonstrated considerable short-term fluctuations correlated with rainfall. The measurements are believed to be accurate to three-hundredths of an inch ( 0.03".). After a year's "calibration" of each tree's behaviour by means of regression of girth increment on rainfall it is hoped to detect reactions to silvicultural treatment during the second year of measurement.
42602307|Douglas fir produces visible flower buds which are carried on the tree for approximately a year before the flowers open in the spring. A larger cone crop results from fall application of nitrogenous fertiliser after the buds are formed. Spring application of nitrate nitrogen, if applied at the correct time, causes the initiation of many more flower buds. The second important point is to apply the nitrate at the time of "flushing" or vegetative bud opening.
42602497|Having pointed out the principle of the autonomy of individual Colonies, Mr. Collier gave a definition of forest resources differentiating between ephemeral or salvage resources and true resources capable of permanent management. He then gave some idea of how a forest estate can be created, paying tribute to the work of the Indian Forest Service in devising machinery for establishment (which in most colonial territories is a right of usufruct only) and administration. In particular he spoke of rights as they affect holders and means of settlement of forest reserves. Next the Forest Adviser spoke of the forest resources of the various regions, the Caribbean, South East Asia, the West Coast of Africa, East and Central Africa and the Mediterranean (with some mention of the true position of the Sahara). He then went on to describe what he considered to be the fundamentals of forest management with Malaya leading in this field, West Africa following and other territories varying and many still in the simpler stages of prohibition. The talk was illustrated by excellent coloured lantern slides in interludes and a discussion followed.
42601993|Mvule (Chlorophora excelsa) is being planted in Lango and Acholi Districts to replace the heavy cut elsewhere in Uganda where conditions may not be suitable for regeneration. It is being under-planted together with other nurse and timber species in Terminalia woodland. This woodland is a stage in a sere of which Mvule is a natural, though later, member; a sere which results in the development of closed high-forest from open cultivated land. The Mvule is raised as striplings in permanent rotational nurseries, and is planted out when 3 years old. It maintains a rate of growth of about 2 feet per year in the first ten years, falling to about 1 foot 3 inches per year at 15 years of age when the rate appears to be steady. The scheme aims at producing a Mvule crop of timber size, mixed with other species, in a rotation provisionally estimated at 100 years. Particular emphasis is laid on the ecology of the plantations and of the vegetation in which they are being established.
42600614|Tropical High-Forest in Uganda appears to be incapable of an annual acre yield of large saw-timber exceeding twenty cubic feet under any polycyclic system. If higher yields are required a monocyclic system is essential, and even then about sixty cubic feet per acre per year seems to be the limit, and something like thirty to forty the best that can be hoped for over wide areas. These figures are believed to apply to the majority of African High-Forest. Such yields impose severe limits on permissible establishment costs. No considerable improvement is possible until thinnings and the smaller sizes are rendered saleable.
42601883|The transportation of logs from the woods to the conversion plant bears important relationships to the total transportation problem which includes all phases of logging from the stump to the market for the derived forest products. In the United States and particularly on the Pacific coast, the trend has been away from railroads towards the use of trucks for log transportation. Important factors in the use of trucks for log transportation are: (1) Size of load. Unit costs tend to decrease with increase in the size of load. (2) Size (diameter) of timber. With small equipment unit costs decrease with increase in diameter. This factor of decreasing importance with increase in the size of trucks. (3) Distance of haul. Unit costs vary in direct ratio to distance. Costs indicate fairly heavy gradients as opposed to light gradients with longer distance of travel. (4) Efficiency of loading equipment. The speed needed in loading has favoured the use of self-mobile, revolving equipment of the power-shovel type in the United States. (5) Road construction and equipment. The intensity of the road system increases with increase in density of stand and with decrease in cost of construction. The tendency in the United States is towards well-constructed roads with good surfacing. The development of a complete logging plan, of which log transportation is but a part, has a complex dependence on engineering, forestry and economics.
42601423|Gold Coast timber exploitation is concentrated in the evergreen, moist and dry deciduous types of forest which together comprise the rain forest. Of the many species occurring therein only about twenty are currently exploited to any extent. The stocking of these latter is very variable, but for practical purposes may be taken as averaging about 80-200 cubic feet of mature merchantable timber per acre in the evergreen and dry deciduous types and from 200-400 cubic feet per acre in the moist deciduous forest. In terms of sustained outturn, these stockings correspond to 4-10 cubic feet per acre per annum in the first two types and from 10-20 cubic feet per acre per annum in the moist deciduous forest. Demands for timber amount to about 5,250,000 cubic feet annually, of which just over half is exported. Exports are 95 per cent Mahogany, mostly in the log. The United States and the United Kingdom together absorb over go per cent of Gold Coast timber exports. Domestic demands are mainly for building, furniture and mining purposes. The annual cut of merchantable timber for all purposes is estimated as about 9,000,000 cubic feet. Standing timber is normally purchased by means of concessions or felling agreements; the former are the only sure means of acquiring a safe title, but are expensive and somewhat cumbersome to take out. Owing to the comparatively narrow range of species utilized, felling is highly selective and dispersed. Extraction is mainly manual in the primary stage and by road or rail in the secondary phase. Road haulage is extensive, but is currently handicapped by lack of suitable vehicles. The bulk of locally produced timber is ultimately moved by rail. The haulage capacity of the railway is at present about 80,000 tons per year, but this is already insufficient to satisfy all demands. The only port with any real facilities for handling timber is Takoradi. Local conversion is to logs and "curls" for export or to lumber. Logs may be squared or left round; the former is the usual practice for the United Kingdom market. Lumber is mostly produced by pit-sawing, but seven commercial mills are also operating as well as various private mills supplying their owners' requirements only. These mills are all of the permanent type. Equipment mostly comprises frame and circular saws, although a few bandmills are in use. Seasoning is generally rudimentary. Air drying is the only method employed, but the practice is not widespread. Considerable expansion of the local timber industry is currently contemplated, particularly as regards saw and veneer milling. This is to be welcomed as leading to more balanced exploitation, but is likely to be limited, at least in its initial stages, by lack of extraction facilities.
42600851|Comparison between the soil properties of a typical Callana podzol in Britain and adjacent sites afforested seventy years earlier showed important differences. Both hardwoods and conifers improved the soil by alleviating poor aeration and increasing the calcium status of the upper horizons. In contrast, bothbut more so the conifersdegraded the soil by increasing the immobilisation of nutrients in the raw humus. Calcium was depleted from the sub-soil, and the removal by the forest cover of substantial amounts of the limited nutrient-capital of the site suggests serious study to ensure continued timber production from such impoverished soils.
42600854|An account is given of the forested country on the east and south of Mount Kinabalu which was explored for the first time by the Royal Society Expedition. Studies of soils, plants and animals were made in connection with the proposal for a national park of Kinabalu. The most exciting discoveries were a new genus of Fagaceae and a small group of rhinoceros surviving at a high altitude.
42600579|Aerial photographs on a scale of 1:10,000 were taken of a virgin forest area in the Essequibo-Mazaruni watershed for experimental purposes. Tree diameter at breast height, measured in the field, is correlated with crown diameter of the same tree, measured on the photographs. A linear relation between these two measurements is established mathematically. The possibilities of volume estimation through crown diameter measurements on aerial photographs are discussed and an indication is given in what vegetation types this method will be most successful.
42600347|We propose in this and later issues of E.F.R. to publish an assessment by Professor Stebbing, of Forestry Research, roughly during the last century, in what has become the British Commonwealth but with Burma, now a non-Commonwealth country, naturally included. Part I in this number starts with an account of the origins of forestry administration in India and Burma commencing with Madras. The first research project noted was by Munro, C. of F. Travancore, in 1837 and concerned the rate of growth of teak. The I.F.S. was formed in 1864, the F.R.I. at Dehra Dun in 1905 and during the last 30 years "has gone from strength to strength". Great Britain is next dealt with. The principal point was the introduction of exotics with little realisation of the economic importance of forestry until World War I. With the formation of the Forestry Commission forestry began to be taken seriously and research commenced. Its course, both the utilisation side, at Princes Risborough, and now at Alice Holt for other branches, is sketched. Next the Imperial Forestry Institute receives comment and its research work is assessed. The Professor goes on to deal with other organisations concerned with forestry research in Great Britain and Northern Ireland receives passing reference.
42602797|Girth above buttresses proved to be the most suitable dimension on which to base an estimate of volume. The introduction of either total or of merchantable length of bole added no useful increase in precision and use of the square of the girth, surprisingly, decreased it.
42601485|The article is derived from observations made by the author on crown diseases in Black Pine during a pathological survey of the forests of Cyprus in 1956. He deals with types of situation with which dying tops are associated, relates this to the stage in the development of the trees, describes at some length the type of stand in which top-dying occurs, discusses the morphology and anatomy of dead tops including the occurrence of injured phloem in crowns of low foliage density. The author's tables illustrate in detail seventeen typical cases of top-dying and appendices describe fully the soil profiles of sites where top-dying was examined.
42600948|This paper gives the functions of diagnostic sampling, outlines the features that are required in a system applicable to tropical high forest, and then assesses the suitability of existing systems for use in Uganda. From this critical review a scheme is developed which appears well suited to local conditions because field technique is relatively simple and analysis of results can be done rapidly. This system may be applicable elsewhere and the local field instructions are therefore given in detail as a suggested basis for trial.
42601427|The Teak plantations of Trinidad are now yielding large quantities of thinnings of 5 and 10 years of age and smaller numbers of thinnings up to 30 years old. All thinnings are potentially marketable from the viewpoint of accessibility, but it is necessary to expand the present markets and discover new ones if effective utilization is to be achieved. The present ways in which the Teak thinnings are being utilized are described according to the age of thinning and the possibility of converting the older thinnings into sawn small dimension stock is referred to.
42599532|Afforestation work in Palestine, carried out during the last two decades, penetrates already in areas with four inches of yearly rainfall (Asluj). Initial success could be observed as regards the following species: Tamaris sp., Zizyphus spina-Christi and Pistacia atlantica. The last, scattered from the north to the semi-desert Negev, is an exceptionally drought-resistant and fast growing tree. The introduced Eucalyptus camaldulensis successfully grows in the arid zone where deep soil and telluric moisture are available. Pinus halepensis, Casuarina equisetifolia, Acacia cyanophylla and Parkinsonia aculeata are other useful exotics of the zone. Initial experiments were successfully carried out by the Forest Research Laboratory, Rehovot, in 1941-1945 with the following exotic species: Prosopis juliflora, Eucalyptus gomphocephala, Eucalyptus cladocalyx, Acacia karroo and others. The prerequisites of a successful afforestation of such arid areas are: (1) The preparation of suitable stock for planting. (2) Choosing the most favourable season for planting in order to increase the chances of rooting and initial growth. Species grown in receptacles should be preferred, therefore, to those grown in beds. By accelerating the process of germination, more success in seeding straight into the area can be obtained with some species. (3) Hoeing and weeding in time, the soil of newly-established plantations. (4) Adaptation of species to exposure and slope.
42600441|In the first part of a two-part article the author first describes the region covered, then the principal species with the amounts of each in the inventory and the annual cuts followed by the distribution of the trade in the decade 1946-55. Land tenure in B.C. is then discussed, licensing arrangements receive comment and a short history of local logging is given, then cruising and falling (felling) are described with some figures of costs. A considerable glossary of terms used in British Columbia logging follows Part II.
42602385|Inoculation experiments have demonstrated: 1. that unequal effects produced by mycorrhiza-formers (Boletus scaber and Amanita muscaria) on young trees (birch and Norway spruce) are associated with the soil conditions under which the plants are growing; 2. that ecological conditions are also responsible for the degree of virulence of the root-disease fungus Rhizoctonia sylvestris in parasitising Scots pine. The results of these experiments strongly imply the need for caution in selecting mycorrhizal fungi for inoculation purposes, and in choosing nursery stock for planting.
42602543|The vegetation and inhabitants of the Dongotona Hills are described. It is shown that the widespread erosion and the drying up of perennial streams have taken place within comparatively recent times, due to a great extent to the invasion by the Dongotona tribe, with their unsuitable methods of cultivation, into the higher hills by pressure of successive waves of migration from the south-east. The rapidity of erosion and its results on the water supply show how swiftly the country can sustain immense damage. The appointment of a team to study the various land uses of the area is suggested.
42601150|The study of hygiene is concerned with that practice, or set of rules which, if followed, will maintain the forest in a state of health. Health is judged as a relative, and not an absolute condition. It may be defined as soundness of body, and the judgment of health is based on a comparison of an existing pattern of development with one which is considered to be normal to the organism. In practical forest management the forest is judged to be adequately healthy if the condition of the trees is such that the objects of management are efficiently achieved. Such achievement demands a certain pattern of development in the forest and therefore a certain degree of health. A species of tree, or of any other organism is, relative to other species, a unity definable essentially by its genetical constitution; it is, however, continuously variable in character within the limits of this constitution. The actual character of a species in development is the resultant of the interaction of the species as a variable with its environment also as a variable. This interaction necessarily results in the development of strains, or races, within the species which are specially suited to particular aspects of the general environment within which the species is distributed. A species of tree, or of any other organism, is thus fixed in terms of a general environment, if it is to remain healthy; but within the limits of this general environment local races or strains develop within the species in reaction to local environmental variations. These strains are fixed in terms of such local variations, if they too are to remain healthy. It follows from this that in terms of character of environment the forest is fixed by the environmental limitations of the strains within its species; moreover it is these strains which constitute the essential units with which the forester has to deal. The geographical movement of species is, thus, permissible providing it does not involve unduly their environmental movement. Finally, the environment of a tree is both living and non-living. The maintenance of health thus demands the fixation of the species, not only in terms of the non-living environment but also with regard to the living. The misplacement of a species of tree may thus take place purely in terms of its living environment with the result that disease develops: but change in non-living environment affects all species; it follows, therefore, that if a species of tree, or any strain within a species is misplaced in terms of a non-living characteristic of environment it will tend also to be misplaced with regard to living environmental factors, the one type of factor within the environment interacting with the other. This is a common experience. The conclusion is that the forest, considered as a collection of trees, is fixed in terms of the environmental needs of these trees. The fundamental basis of silviculture is, thus, an understanding of the environmental needs of tree species considered as collections of strains which generally are similar in character though varying significantly in some points in essential genetical character and therefore in environmental needs.
42600507|The problem of determining the distribution of species and of assessing the volume of standing timber in mixed, uneven-aged tropical forests is discussed. The methods of survey and of recording field data are described. A system for the computation of volumes and the analysis of volume figures by area and species is given, and finally a method of compiling a stock map on which the area can be divided into coupes giving an equal annual yield is described.
42601359|One log when peeled was found to have internal damage by ambrosia beetles, with associated stain. The tree had been attacked when small but had recovered, the tunnels being obliterated. Two species of Platypodidae were responsible, but specimens were too fragmented for identification. It was shown that the attack had not resulted in the rearing of broods, and that the staining was due not to fungi but to gum or resin produced by the tree.
42600248|On the basis of the observations made in 1953, the following technique is indicated for conditions prevailing on the Nyika Plateau : (a) Fresh South African Seed should be sown at the following densities: P. caribaea 1 oz./3 sq. ft P. patula 1 oz./4 sq. ft. P. taeda 1 oz./3 sq. ft. or may be heavier (b) Broadcast seed should be covered with sand as follows: P. caribaea  in. P. patula  in P. taeda  in. (c) To control damping off fungi, the seed beds should be watered with a strong solution of potassium permanganate (1 oz. / 2 gallons water / 4 sq. yards) at time of sowing and at first germination. (d) Overhead shade, at 3-4 inches above the beds, should be used to protect all seedlings at night against frost in May and June. (e) Overhead shade, at 3-6 inches above the beds, should be used to improve the germination of P. patula. P. caribaea and P. taeda should not be shaded. (f) Seedlings should be transplanted 3-5 weeks after germination. (g) To obtain 6-9 inch transplants for planting out in late December, seed should be sown : P. caribaea March P. patula Late December/Early January P. taeda March (h) Against frost, transplants only require shade at night for a few weeks after transplanting. However, shade is required for the minor species P. insignis (P. radiata). (i) One gallon of water is required for 15 sq. ft. of transplant bed. Experimentation indicates that evening watering is preferable, (j) After transplanting, the trees should be root pruned as follows : P. caribaea Once/week P. patula Once/fortnight P. taeda Once/week; if not once/2 months
42601386|The evidence of sampling and observation in Basilan (P.I.) and North Borneo suggests that successful regeneration of dipterocarp forest is attainable after high lead logging.
42600315|Our readers will recall that the British Association meeting at Sheffield in August last devoted one of the K* Section days to Catchment Areas and this session proved most interesting and not a little controversial. As we are fortunate to be publishing in this issue one of the most important papers there read, that of Mr. Bleasdale, we thought that it would serve as a suitable introduction to the subject if we also published a note prepared for the I.U.F.R.O. meeting at Oxford earlier in the year by Mr. M. V. Laurie, who was section chairman at Sheffield. His aim in this note was to assemble the evidence and, in the short bibliography at the end, to quote the available authorities rather than to suggest any solution of the problem. We think that this will serve as a suitable introduction to our readers whose attention is therefore directed in particular to the last paragraph of this paper where certain suggestions are made for further consideration of a problem with which foresters are faced the world over.
42600442|An account is given of trials carried out by the Forestry Commission Research Branch in which Dutch lights, artificial illumination, top and/or bottom heat and special soils were used in attempts to raise up to four crops of usable (over 1 inches tall) Sitka spruce seedlings. The work was carried out during the period 1951-55. The details of yields and heights of seedlings are given for each year. The object of raising four crops of seedlings in one year on the same heated frame was achieved, but difficulties were encountered in "hardening off" seedlings during winter months. It is concluded that by using the techniques described a maximum of more than three crops of seedlings can not be obtained in South-east Scotland without running the serious risk of seedling losses by frost. Using intensive methods is expensive and in view of the low cost of seedling production in Scottish heathland nurseries there is no reason for using this technique on an extensive scale, although there are possibilities for its use in raising seedlings outside the normal season for experimental purposes.
42601323|The environmental conditions under which E. deglupta occurs naturally in New Britain are discussed. Silvicultural characteristics and requirements of the species are outlined. A silvicultural system and policy of management are proposed. Information on growth, yield, major properties and uses of the timber is summarised.
42600141|The use of field characters of forest trees as a basis of identification has hitherto received very little recognition from systematic botanists. The progress in this field has been confined: (1) to suggestions for the standardization of terminology as a basis of record for the ultimate preparation of a Key on the perforated-card system for use in Malaya, and (2) the publication of a simple dichotomous Key for the more important trees of Tobago. The writer has made a close study of field characters particularly of the bark (and blaze) of the wet evergreen forest trees of Ceylon. This study has shown that there is a very definite relationship between certain field characters and the most important families found in wet evergreen forests. Considerable diagnostic and sometimes taxonomic value may be attached to such characters which are, therefore, considered of fundamental importance. These may be summarized as follows: (1) Certain external characters of the stem, viz. the presence of spines or prickles and certain forms of buttresses. (2) Certain external characters of the bark, chiefly the nature of bark dehiscence. (3) Certain internal characters of the bark, chiefly the nature and type of exudation, when present;this feature is considered the most important single field character of taxonomic value. (4) The presence of (resinous) exudation from the wood. (5) The presence of characteristic aromatic or pungent smells from the (cut) bark. (6) Certain distinctive features, mainly associated with colour, of the internal bark tissues. These characters are considered in reference to the families, genera and species in which they occur. Field characters of subsidiary value are also briefly described and their use in identification is indicated.
42602800|In British Honduras mahogany regeneration is rare except on certain sites where the forest has been damaged. Applications of Aldrin to the ground near seedbearers resulted in profuse regeneration and suggest that the rarity of young regeneration is the result of insect attack.
42599695|Following a brief visit to south-west Finland in the late summer of 1947, observations are made on a number of matters of forestry interest, especially to foresters in the British Isles. A brief survey is given of topography, geology and soil, followed by notes on the various forest stands and types and on general silvicultural practice and experimental work connected therewith. Some points of interest in management and utilization are reported. The Finnish organizations for forestry education and for furthering private forestry are described in some detail and certain effects of the last war and the peace treaty are alluded to.
42599864|Mr. Long gave this address in his capacity as Chairman of the Forestry Section at the recent British Association meeting at Liverpool. Describing the history of forestry in the U.K. from the beginning of the 19th century, he goes on to state reasons for the tardy formation of the Forestry Commission and outlines the primary objects of its policy. He endeavours to fit U.K. requirements in timber into the European framework using F.A.O. statistics, correlates F.C. policy with this leading up to the 1943 programme of 5 million acres within 50 years, which should supply 30 per cent of our timber requirements. The implications of the plan are touched on under various headings such as land, labour, species, length of rotation, allocation to private and State enterprise, direct and indirect benefits to various interests. He then goes on to discuss forestry in catchment areas and the amenity value of forests and ends with his estimate of the place of forestry in the national economy.
42602188|This is an American article. Dollars and thousand feet board measure have been converted for easier local comparison. The study is of the smaller type of sawmill such as are found in many places overseas. From the detailed costings to the astounding fact that production per man day is around 90 cubic feet of sawn timber, this article is full of interest. In many cases, overseas millers will undoubtedly find that their costings vary markedly from those given. In very few cases will they reach a figure as high as 90 cubic feet produced per man day. So long as they are below that figure they can be sure that they are not efficient. It is rarely that this Review publishes an article from outside sources: it is pleased to be able to reprint such an outstanding contribution on Anglo-American joint productivity. J. D. Barithwaite.
42602433|The Jos Plateau covers an area of some 1800 square miles and is a picturesque stretch of country characterized by numerous rocky outcrops and imposing hill ranges. The mean altitude is about 4000 feet above sea level. The plateau is well watered with perennial streams eventually flowing into the Niger-Benue drainage system. The climate is pleasant for Europeans although the diurnal variation in temperature is great. The plateau is the centre of the tin mining industry and the cassiterite or "tin stone" is a high-grade concentrate of tin oxide found in alluvial beds at no great depth. Very little forest remains outside forest reserves except perhaps along river banks and the bases of the hill ranges and this is exposed to the annual bush fires that sweep the countryside. The best type of woodland is found on the older granites whereas the younger granites usually carry a crop of knee-high grass. The soil is generally poor and shallow and is quickly converted into a hard impenetrable pan. Extensive stands of pure Borassus occur in places and an outstanding feature of the plateau is the enormous specimens of Canarium found in and around pagan hamlets. A variety of interesting and attractive wild flowers such as orchids and gladioli are found but the fauna of the area is extremely meagre and the small game that does exist is mostly found in the forest reserves. The indigenous population is pagan and probably the most backward people in Nigeria. They are an interesting and virile race, primitive in the extreme and wear no clothes. Before the tin mining industry became established the pagans were purely agriculturists but now they are depending more and more on the industry for their livelihood. Much of their best farming land has been destroyed and now there is evidence of land hunger. Some 215,000 head of Fulani cattle graze on the plateau and the question as to whether over-grazing has contributed to denudation and the spread of erosion is being investigated. The present forest policy aims at establishing fuel plantations, communal forestry areas, the rehabilitation of exhausted farm-land, anti-erosion measures and the control of bush burning. Until now, Cassia siamea, Callitris and eucalypts are the main species being used but experiments are under way to find other suitable species. Some eucalypts show considerable promise, but termites are a nuisance.
42601547|Forestry is compared to agriculture which has changed as a result of two world wars and the slow nature of forestry is emphasised. Where forests are scarce forestry is generally at its best. Exotic trees are often introduced and grow better than indigenous species. Forest production will have to become more efficient with the increase in world population and it will have to keep pace with changes in the way of life of mankind. These things must be remembered in planning for the future. In this respect the forester must emulate the farmer and grow what is wanted. Forestry is becoming an intricate business and foresters must be businesslike. The face of forestry is changing and foresters must consider whether it is changing fast enough and going in the right direction.
42600143|In the following article the writer records his impressions of erosion and torrent control work seen in the French Alps during the course of a study tour in June/July 1952, organised by the French Forestry Service under the auspices of the Forestry Division of the Food and Agriculture Organisation.
42602158|This paper describes an attempt which is being made in Cyprus by several departments of Government to reclaim an area of marshland, most of which lies below sealevel. The marsh has. been drained and partly afforested with eucalyptus, and the most important aim, the elimination of breeding places suitable for the anopheles mosquito, has already been achieved. It seems likely, although by no means certain, that afforestation may be a necessary stage in the reclamation of the marsh to a higher form of land use. However, the soil in many places is very rich with ample water near the surface even in summer and, in spite of the high returns which eucalyptus forest can give on land of this sort, it seems probable that the foresters and agriculturists may have to reach some compromise later on. The principal difficulties so far encountered have been opposition from the local population, waterlogging of the soil even after drainage, regrowth of marsh vegetation and surface salinity in certain areas.
42602652|Research into the application of the Tropical Shelterwood System is described; also its present technique. Examples are given of the research records kept. The history of the first seven years of a coupe in the Bobiri Forest Reserve is given. Some conclusions regarding the application of the Tropical Shelterwood System are discussed.
42602061|The pattern of inlay bordering the Prime Minister's Conference Table is made up of woods from all parts of the British Commonwealth, which serve as a symbol of the ties of friendship existing among the British peoples.
42600350|The distribution in East Africa and the host plants of two species of Symmerus are discussed. A case of damage to trees of Olea welwitschii in Tanganyika by S. montanus is briefly described: large and vigorous trees were found on felling and conversion to have the internal wood heavily tunnelled by Ambrosia Beetles although the outer wood was perfectly sound. An analogous case was described by Duffy (Vol. 35, p. 198) from West Africa where logs of Triplochiton scleroxylon, apparently sound externally, were found to have been pin-holed internally by Symmerus tuberculatus Chap. It is considered highly probable that the attack in the case of O. welwitschii was caused by a forest fire temporarily weakening the trees which however recovered, the pin-holed wood being covered in due course by new growth.
42601487|The stocking of trees over "exploitable" girth limits on some 2,000 acres in 1955/58 has been compared with the stocking on the same area 9 years earlier, taking fellings in the intervening period into account. By the use of stock maps and a field check the reasons for differences between nett ingrowth and actual recruitment into this size class have been determined. It is suggested that comparisons of this nature coupled with an examination of the size class distribution from 1 ft. girth up to the exploitable limit and sampling to determine the progress of regeneration and seedlings would provide an efficient way of controlling selection fellings to give a sustained yield or to ensure sufficient mother trees in an area due for conversion while liquidating present mature stock. Difficulties in accurate methods of girthing are largely nullified when the problem of existing mature trees surplus to requirements for a working stock are considered.
42601064|Part I provided a brief account of the general zonation of vegetation in the Corsican mountains and a fuller treatment of environmental conditions in the Corsican pine forests. In the present account some measurements of height and girth in even-aged stands on good sites in the forests of Atone and Valdo-niello are compared with similar sets of measurements previously reported. Substantial areas of approximately even aged (often 150/200 years) high forest were noted, but a Selection System of management was adopted some years ago in place of the Shelterwood System formerly practised. The reasons for the long rotation of 300 years are briefly considered and the problems of Corsican pine regeneration in relation to physiographic factors, method of management and local competition from beech, silver fir and bracken are discussed. Some seed source stands near the forest of Valdo-niello are referred to and the significance of provenance differences in the seed introduced into Britain is reviewed in relation to the health of Corsican pine on upland sites, where it might be supposed that a provenance from high altitude would prove best accommodated.
42601546|The writer's botanical studies in British Honduras included an examination of the native species of pine. One of these, P. caribaea, is a tree of increasing economic importance, whilst the presence of a second species, P. oocarpa var. ochoterenai, is not generally known, and up to now its identity has been uncertain. In this brief account, taxonomic notes on both species are followed by some observations on the variation, pathology, and ecology, of P. caribaea.
42599642|The note represents an attempt to describe briefly the state of the land and the relics of forest surviving in Transjordan to-day. Whilst the writer has never actually served in Transjordan, he has had an opportunity to travel extensively through the country, both when on leave from the Western Desert Army in 1942 and again in 1945-46 when serving as a forest inspector in the Forest Service of the neighbouring country of Palestine. Illustrating the note are a map and a number of photographs. After discussing the geographical position of Transjordan and its affinity to the neighbouring Middle East lands, a more detailed description is given of that part of the territory in which forests are still actually to be found. Some attention is given to the effect which over long ages man and his activities have had on the original vegetative cover of the country. Attention is drawn to the manner in which this country, lying close to the Syrian Desert, has slowly but surely been changed from a potentially smiling land of carefully terraced fields, orchards and vineyards, with forests on the higher and rougher hills, to a goat-infested semi-desert supporting but a fraction of the population which, with correct treatment, it could accommodate. Mention is made of the steps which have been taken to deal with the very unsatisfactory state of affairs since the arrival of British officials after the First World War. An account is given of the constitution and aims of the present Forestry Service, which unfortunately only constitutes a small section of the larger department of Lands and Surveys. Finally come descriptions of the two remaining forest areas, that in the mountains of Edom to the south and that, in the hills of Gilead, towards the valley of the Yarmuk in the north. The forests of the Gilead region are of a type once common in Palestine, with species of Quercus and Pistacia predominating and a ground flora rich in Labiates. The Edom forests are of quite another kind, the main species being a Juniperus and Pistacia atlantica. Of special interest here is an old group of Cupressus sempervirens near Tafile, the only natural trees of this species known to be growing in the country. Very little literature has so far been published on the flora of Transjordan and at the end a list of publications of possible interest is given.
42598934|The organization of the Forest Service, under Gifford Pinchot in the administration of President Theodore Roosevelt, and the transfer of the national forests to that Service, mark the beginning of the turning point between wasteful exploitation and conservation of natural resources in the United States. The revenue from the national forests was over $15,000,000 (3,750,000) in 1944, most coming from sales of timber, followed by fees from grazing, with lesser amounts from rentals for various land uses. The work of the Forest Service falls under three main headings : (1) administration of the national forests; (2) research; and (3) encouragement of private forestry. Under (1), protection against fire takes precedence, and has been highly developed. Timber is sold standing, and is managed on a sustained yield basis and trees are marked for cutting. The cost of the operation is carefully calculated and, after adding a fair amount for the operator's profit, is deducted from the selling price of the final product to get the minimum figure which will be accepted for the timber. Grazing, mostly of cattle and sheep, and chiefly in the west, is next to timber in importance, there being 10,000,000 head yearly on the national forests. Research is carried on vigorously under several broad subjects: forest management and protection, forest influences, utilization of forest products, management and vegetation of range lands, forest economics, and the forest survey. Valuable information has been obtained in all lines, the advances made in wood technology at the Forest Products Laboratory in Madison, Wisconsin, being especially noteworthy. Under encouragement of private forestry, the Forest Service co-operates with the States in fire protection, granting the States funds not exceeding the amount spent for the purpose by the States, in return for which it exercises enough supervision over the States' organizations to ensure efficient use of the funds. The Forest Service also advises private owners. It proposes a four-point programme: (1) expansion of public aid to private owners in protection against fire, insects and disease, and in research; (2) sufficient public regulation of cutting on private lands to stop deterioration and keep the land reasonably productive; (3) purchase by the States, communities and the Federal Government of forest lands which cannot be kept productive, or adequately protected; and (4) a comprehensive post-war national programme of forestry.
42601062|A brief history of forestry in Mauritius is outlined. Indian Ocean cyclones are dealt with in general and a brief account of the two recent (1960) severe cyclones is given, with a description of damage done to exotic plantations. Finally, the influence of major cyclones on the management and silviculture of the principal exotic species is discussed.
42600472|Occurrence of mycorrhizal infection in various eucalypts from different localities is recorded and a case of mycorrhiza-formation by a Scleroderma species in Eucalyptus gomphocephala described. Observational data and early results of some preliminary pot-culture experiments have so far not supported the assumption that, in their development, certain systematic groups of Eucalyptus are unequally dependent on mycorrhizal infection.
42601152|The pine forests are described. It is shown that the mature volume of wood will be converted to lumber in twenty years and that there will be a drop in available supplies if immediate steps are not taken to introduce more intensive fire protection and form larger plantations.
42601640|Field studies of Armillaria Root Rot in Kenya pine plantations made between 1953 and 1959 have shown that the disease is most frequent and severe in sites following Montane Rain Forest and less so following Montane Conifer Forest. This is related to the frequency of occurrence of Armillaria mellea in these forests. Eucalyptus and cypress have been found to carry A. mellea and give rise to infections in subsequent pine plantings. A peak of infection was found in plantations of about five years of age, after which it decreased due to increasing resistance of the host. Pinus elliottii v. elliottii was found more susceptible to attack than P. radiata and P. patula.
42602212|The coastal plain of the Somaliland Protectorate presents a very difficult environment. One economically valuable species found there is the tree Conocarpus lancifolius Engl. which was extensively used in the building of the Arab "dhow". Its local name is damas. The species grows naturally in the valleys where there are running streams. It has been used in plantations on the coast near Berbera where there is brackish ground water at five feet, and has grown better than the other species tried. Its advantages as a plantation species in extremely arid areas are enumerated.
42600576|"Operation Firestop" was a one-year study designed to explore certain aspects of mass-fire behaviour, carried out in California in 1954, as a preliminary to the formation of a National fire defence plan for wartime conditions in the U.S.A. The movement of fire in rugged topography, fire calibration, the use of chemicals in fire fighting and techniques of application were inter alia investigated. It was concluded that chemical fire retardants, such as sodium calcium borate can be effectively used as fire suppressants, in the construction of fire lines and in controlled burning; and that helicopters provide the answer to many problems of hose-laying and equipment transport in difficult terrain. Studies of fire calibration and wind movement were hampered by inadequate instrumentation, but sufficient was learned to establish the need for further work on similar lines.
42602647|After introductory remarks the author describes water relations under eight headsxerophyty and xeromorphy, water absorption, soil moisture, transpiration, root system, drought resistance, and water requirements and conservation. He appends a bibliography with twenty-eight items, mostly American, referring to work extending from 1919 to 1952.
42602855|Growth habits affecting the regeneration of eucalypts are described. Factors discussed include leaf production, the importance of advance growth, the relative significance of light and moisture, biological phenomena in a gap in the forest, the sequence of weeds following fire, the response of different species after crown fires, and the disintegration of slash. The effect of the shortening of the trunk during growth is briefly dealt with, and suggestions are made as to the future structure and yield of forests managed under the Group Selection System.
42599646|The author describes the various rural and cottage industries of the Gold Coast, most of which have some relation with the forest or forest productsbrewing, pit-sawing, roofing, wood carving, weaving of mats, cloth and silk, rubber collection, pottery and bee-keeping.
42601879|An improved system of extraction by cable of timber from mountain slopes and difficult terrain has been developed in Switzerland. The system is simple to install and can be operated by four men.
42600314|The author, in preparation for the 7th British Commonwealth Forestry Conference, attempts in two articles to summarise what has gone before. In the first, he deals with the first three Conferences held in 1920, 1923 and 1928. The first was in the United Kingdom with 43 delegates from 17 territories. Perhaps the resolutions passed best reflect the progress made in the years. The first three dealt with Policy, Resources, and Constitution and Status and were to be reaffirmed in only slightly modified or expanded form by successive Conferences. Others dealt with Forest Industries, Publicity, Distribution of Forest Plants, Terminology, and Trade Nomenclature, Research, Education and the Bureau. Lord Robinson, as he subsequently became, summarised the findings of the Conference in Vol. I of the E.F.J. He considered that two conclusions could be drawn. First, any advance in Empire Forestry would be through "Increasing intensive cultivation of accessible and the better exploitation of inaccessible areas" and he considered that, although the start had been slow, "The Forestry Movement was gaining momentum". The Second Conference was in Canada in 1923, was longer in duration, travelled farther, inevitably, and was attended by roughly 50 per cent more delegates, though fewer came from the Colonies. The resolutions followed the original pattern and the first three were consolidated into one composite resolution. Next came one on Softwood Resources, followed by others on Education (the I.F.I, in particular advanced a stage further), and one commending the E.F.A. As was to become the custom, resolutions concerning the Conference country were passed; Silviculture, insect and fire damage in Canada were dealt with. Finally, a strong resolution on shifting cultivation was adopted. As to cover in the E.F.J., as it then was, Professor Troup wrote about the tours connected with the Conference and Mr. A. C. Forbes contributed an appreciation of Canadian forest conditions. The Third Conference went to Australia and New Zealand in 1928, was still longer in duration, was attended by over a hundred delegates and tours were even more extensive. Professor Troup again dealt with the tours in the E.F.J. The first resolution reaffirmed those of the previous conferences, but went on to define under eight heads the essentials of a sound forest policy. (This resolution was to have far-reaching future effects.) The next resolution concerned the state of forestry in Australia and New Zealand and had addenda by a trade representative, Mr. J. Richardson, on the state of the timber trade in the two Dominions. Next came a resolution on Forestry Education, first of all with the I.F.I, now in being, and then with the state of education in forestry in the two Dominions. Then followed one on "Forest Technique" which concerned desirable measures of forest management. There was a certain amount of hedging on the Bureau, due to financial stringency no doubt, but the next urged closer liaison between the various research laboratories. Then came valuable resolutions on Exotics, on Technical Terms and on Standard Trade Names. All were to bear future fruit in good measure.
42600852|Natural regeneration of white spruce (Picea glauca) in the spruce-aspen stands of the Mixedwood Section in Alberta is planned. Currently, a 2-cut uniform shelterwood system with the seedbed scarification following the first cut is being applied to provide a white spruce seed source and conditions suitable for the successful establishment of the seedlings. This system is discussed in the light of the factors influencing reproduction of the commercially important spruce. In conclusion certain advantages of the system are enumerated.
42602387|A curious structure in the gallery of a Platypodid, Doliopygus subditivus Schedl. and the pupal chambers of a weevil, Scolytoproctus schaumi Fst. are figured and briefly described.
42600313|As the best possible summary of what was a spirited, and in parts a lighthearted discussion, we cannot do better than refer readers to that already made by Mr. A. P. Long, the newly-appointed President of the Society of Foresters of Great Britain when he said, "Some form of plan was necessary, but there was not general agreement as to the form" and that "In the course of the evolution of forestry in Great Britain something would come out in the wash". Professor Mobbs opened the discussion and made out a strong case for the orthodox, though not too detailed, Working Plan deriving from Indian practice and as taught, and practised, at Bangor. Mr. J. A. B. Macdonald was sceptical and affected to despise the Classical W. P. as old-fashioned, cramping, good perhaps for vast forestry charges where trained staff was scarce and areas supervised large but unsuited to the infinitely variable forests of Scotland and North England. Mr. Hiley commended the work of Dr. Craib in South Africa but was against W. P.' s because he did not know enough. Professor Champion on the other hand was for them with the proviso of frequent revision and never too great elaboration. Many contributed to the discussion pro and con and the Chairman summed up as already stated.
42600251|Effects of mulching on the development of mycorrhizal fungi are recorded. From field observations and results of pot-cultures it would appear that stimulation of mycelial growth and promotion of sporophore formation are brought about as the result of the new conditions created by the mulched tree, but not by the mulch alone.
42602540|Technical collaboration between the forest services of British, Dutch and French Guiana has been established, and an account is given of forestry work in Dutch Guiana. The Forest Service has been re-established for only two years, and improvement of control of exploitation and revenue collection is still an important phase of work. Timber valuation survey technique is described and notes given on silvicultural and botanical work. Timber exports in the past have largely been in the form of round logs, but with the establishment of new sawmills and a plywood factory, there has been a substantial increase in exports of processed timber.
42602313|This paper describes the enumeration of the growing stock and the estimation of the current annual increment at Thetford Forest in the course of a working plan survey. The use of an electronic digital computer to process the field data is briefly explained. The basal areas to be left standing after thinning at various top heights were prescribed in the form of basal area/top height curves for the more important species and the future thinning production was estimated, taking into account current basal area stocking, estimated future increment and prescribed basal areas to be left after thinning. The cost of the inventory is given and an estimate made of the saving in cost resulting from the use of the electronic computer.
42600344|A gap of seven years 1928-35 separates the third and fourth conferences. This period covered the depression, which was reflected in the numbers attending63 from 19 Territoriesalthough African countries, naturally, were well repre sented. The Empire Forestry Review covered the Conference in an illustrated article by E. A. Garland. Tours were to Natal, Zululand, the Kruger National Park, the Eastern Transvaal, the Cape and to the Eastern Province including Kynsna. Eucalypts and pine plantations with some private wattle growing were seen. Conference sessions were held at Durban, Pietermaritzburg, Pretoria and Capetown. The Conference was addressed by the Rt. Hon. J. C. Smuts. Emphasis was mainly on afforestation and conservation, with particular stress on water conservation. In the eleven resolutions the Policy Statement was fortified, while that on Forest Influences was strengthened. Craib's pruning theories were treated with reserve except for their application to wattle. The setting aside of areas of primeval forest for complete protection was advocated, as was the use of forest in the control of Trypanosomiasis. A still larger gap of twelve years, 1935-1947, and a world war, separated the 4th and 5th Conferences. Close on 120 delegates and guests attended the opening session in London before a short tour, based on Cambridge, was undertaken of the Forestry Commission's forests in East Anglia and a private forest at Boughton in Northamptonshire. The Conference returned to London for a week before setting out on the long tour of the Border forests, then through Edinburgh, to Muir-of-Ord for the Black Isle, back to Inverness for Darnaway and Culbin, returning to Oxford. Short meetings there were followed by the final sessions in London, where Dr. Craib's extended proposals for wide planting, numerical thinnings and a short rotation for pines, with the Forestry Commission's apparent steady refusal to adopt formal working plans were the highlights. Resolutions, fourteen in number, advocated a return to normality after necessary war-time aberrations, but advances, resulting from the war, were in the advocacy of more aerial photography and a call for support for international organisations, like F.A.O. There was a special presentation ceremony for delegates in Buckingham Palace. The 6th Conference assembled in Canada at Ottawa on the 11th August, 1952, 110 delegates and guests attending. After preliminary sessions at the capital, a tour of Quebec was made where a rangers' school, Laval University, and pulp and paper research organisations were seen, followed by a visit to Petawawa Research Station and to the Algonquin Park in Ontario, with a digression to the Niagara Falls. The main session was marred by the sudden tragic death of Lord Robinson, to whom tribute was paid at a special session. A long agenda was dealt with expeditiously; committees were streamlined to five and resolutions were in consequence reduced to eleven. The need for sustained yield forestry was stressed in several of the resolutions with as complete preliminary reconnaissance by air as possible. The reconciliation of management with protection against fire, insects and disease was emphasised, as was the need for more consultation, national as well as international, in measures of fuller utilisation. The usual formal resolutions were passed regarding various organisations, such as the Bureau, and the Empire Forestry Association (in particular re the Terminology). One unique feature of the proceedings was the first meeting outside the U.K. of the Empire Forestry Association, a cordial and useful meeting. Twenty-eight delegates made a post-conference tour of the Prairie Provinces and British Columbia. This was most interesting and instructive, but there is not space to describe it in this article. It was dealt with fully in the Empire Forestry Review by Mr. Blanford, who was E.F.A. representative at the Conference.
42601716|Part I.24th August to 1st September, 1947. The period was spent with a Department of Natural Resources Survey party on the north-west coast of Trinity Bay. The main work was a survey of the local timber resources. Some of the few sample plots in Newfoundland were also visited. Part II. 1st September to 14th September, 1947. The Anglo-Newfoundland Company limits were visited, particularly the Badger Division, which was stated to be a typical forest area owned by the company. Some time was also spent with a Regeneration Survey party of the Anglo-Bowaters Silvicultural Research Division.
42602796|The New Zealand Forest Service sent the authors to Mexico in 1959 to collect seeds of Mexican conifers for species and provenance trials. Eighty-eight seedlots were collected, representing thirty-four species and 124 1b. of seed. Twelve provenances were collected of Pinus pseudostrobus, ten of Pinus montezumae, and four or more provenances of eight other species. The problems inherent in seed collection in Mexico are discussed and the technique and practical experience of the operation are described.
42599531|A new technique of thinning has been developed in the twenty-year-old plantations of Scots and Corsican Pines, established by the Forestry Commission at Thetford Chase in East Anglia. It is known as line-thinning, and consists in the removal of one or more lines of trees at regular intervals throughout the plantation. It has certain advantages over normal selective thinning, in that it lessens costs of selection, felling, and extraction of produce, and also provides access routes for fire protection, but it is only suitable for the first thinning of a series, subsequent thinnings being on a selective basis. The main drawback of line thinning is that it removes a proportion of potential final crop trees. This difficulty has been investigated experimentally, and it is found that, where every third row of trees is removed, the ratio of potential final crop trees to the desirable number may vary from 5.9:1 to 1.2:1. This ratio is termed the "selection factor", and its application in deciding the intensity at which line thinning may be carried out, if at all, is discussed.
42600115|Among the 200 species of pines growing naturally in the northern hemisphere, the Aleppo is distinguished by the fact that it is xerophytic: it grows well not only on limestone formation in its habitat but also in semi-arid or desert regions. Properly selected, planted and thinned, the Aleppo-pine shows a high survival rate and good development without irrigation in regions with as little as 14 in. annual rainfall, provided distribution is fairly even. Minimal irrigation for two to three years after planting will ensure success on the edge of desert areas. This tree is highly adaptable to various types of soils, especially to porous soils, and changes its root system and shape to fit the environment; it succeeds under ecological conditions too poor for most other pines. Proper spacing is essential to optimal development, density should conform to the ecological conditions, ranging from about 2 m. x 2 m. in the natural habitat to 3 m. x 3 m. or even 5 m. x 5 m. in areas where annual rainfall is less than 8 inches. Thinning practices are of the utmost importance. Only suppressed or partially suppressed trees should be removed in the first thinnings between the ages of 10-30 years. Sub- and co-dominants should be removed after 20-30 years in order to encourage girth increment. Too-wide spacing, or excessive thinning, results in over-branching before the forest canopy is complete, and in the twisted trunks so often found in the solitary Aleppo. Experiments during the past 20 years have shown that where proper treatment and density is maintained, the mean height-curve of the Aleppo-pine is stable and is characteristic of this tree. Mean height-curves obtained from measurements of sample plots in 60 forests were of the same shape in all cases where normal conditions prevailed. This curve is diagnostic not only of biometrical development, but of the physiological, light-demanding character of the species, and of site quality as well. The more accurate mean-height curves obtained by the methods outlined in this paper may also be diagnostic for other speciesalthough the shape of the curve will vary with different species. Once the normal curve is established for a species, it may serve as a prognosis of the forest's value: a normal curve during the early years is a sure indication that there will be a maximum number of trees in the higher girth classes.
42601677|The reasons for writing this article are to put forward arguments against any heavy initial expense on the lay-out and construction of forest roads : in favour of an initial low standard of construction, the grade of road being improved later as circumstances warrant : and to emphasize the possibilities of what I have termed "earth" roads. Such roads made from the natural soil in the various localities have, perforce, had to stand up to quite heavy traffic conditions in severe climatic conditions in various parts of the world. What will be the intention in discussing the construction and maintenance of earth roads is to emphasize the necessity of an adequate drainage scheme for the sub-grade, for the road-base and for the road surface itself. To obtain the optimum results the road-base must be well consolidated, preferably by rolling, the road must be given an ample camber and the road surface must be given as wearing and waterproof a surface as funds and local conditions permit.
42602684|The interrelation of the American and Canadian timber industries makes it necessary to discuss them together when dealing with grading. The history of grading from the mid-19th century is sketched and early rules are deemed to bear little relation to the complicated structure of grading now obtaining for instance on the West Coast where frequent overhaul of regulations has taken place leading to the three separate but closely related systems at present in force on the Pacific Coast. These are described. Lumber can be graded into six classes according to use. For example, Douglas Fir Grades have the following divisions: Clear, Construction, Structural, Industrial and Railway and Material Grades. Hemlock, Spruce and Cedar grades follow roughly the same pattern. Then there is the "R" list drawn up to meet the requirements of the export markets. General notes and definitions are given. A few Douglas Fir grades taken at random are quoted in full including those for Flooring and Shipdecking. Hemlock and spruce grades are similarly dealt with. Some notes follow on Box Lumber, Mining Timber, grades of Cutting and of Pieces, with final notes on special Wall Core Stock of Cedar, and finally the author deals with Stress grades. The complexity of grading receives comment but the conclusion is that the rules are competently enforced and have been the result of much thought, and require not only dexterity but also knowledge in their enforcement.
42602110|Describes the forests of Persia, more especially those on the northern slopes of the Elburz Mountains going down to the Caspian Sea. Some estimate is given of the extent, floristic composition, stocking and commercial possibilities of these littleknown forests. Brief notes are given on the very primitive exploitation and utilization of timber and other forest products, and of the ownership of the forest areas. The article closes with a description of the inhabitants and the fauna of the region.
42600946|Sukumaland, its Forest Reserves and Plantations, and its soils, are described and discussed in relation to the chronic shortage of building poles and firewood. A remedy to overcome this shortage is to grow Eucalyptus trees on mbuga soils which are the only remaining large areas of land now available for plantations. The results of the previous attempts to establish trees on mbugas have been inconclusive due to the action of many adverse factors. These adverse factors are enumerated. A successful investigation was completed within Mayla charged to overcome them by use of agricultural machinery. It is concluded that it is possible to grow certain species of Eucalyptus economically on mbuga soils provided that many of the operations are done by machinery. The necessary machinery is described and costed. The method of establishment and management of a large Eucalyptus plantation is discussed.
42600505|While recent British writings on extraction economics have rightly drawn attention to reductions in cost arising from road construction, little consideration has been given to the calculation of the optimum density required. Physical factors may make large differences to the optimum densities for different conditions of forest where the costs of road construction and off-the-road haul and volumes to be extracted vary independently. Future changes in the relations between these variables must also be taken into account. The derivation of a formula showing optimum road densities is given for the "going concern" case. It is clear that if the value of produce at roadside exceeds the costs of fellings and extraction, so that extraction is considered desirable, then the problem is solely one of minimising transport costs, and confusion can only result if considerations of the profitability of growing trees are invoked.
42600346|After fraternal greetings from the T.D.A. and T.T.F. of the United Kingdom, Sir Stuart outlined the history, aims and objects of the former body. He stressed the versatility of wood and the fact that given sound management it was selfperpetuating. During the last war softwood timber was in restricted supply, which led to great advances in the use of substitute materials and, in consequence, considerable investment in their production. Metals took the place of wood in structural engineering, in use as roofing and flooring materials, and in many other fields. In the future, thanks to the T.D.A., there is certain to be great demand for wood in farm buildings (400 million value in the next 10 years is estimated), and glued lamination is another subject for investigation. Propaganda in all modern media is necessary if timber is to keep its place. The application of lessons learned in the U.K. to Australian conditions then received mention, as did the need for sound utilisation. Sir Stuart then spoke of the recently-formed U.K. Institute of Wood Technology, and ended with a suggestion that there should be a Commonwealth Timber Development Association, with meetings possibly coinciding with the quinquennial Forestry Conferences. A four-fold programme was mooted covering personal and professional ties, associations in all countries of the Empire and Commonwealth, international co-operation in research, design, and in other spheres and finally a Commonwealth bulletin.
42600578|Although some of the older woodlands and estate policies are sited on productive lowland soils, the extensive post-war afforestation programme in Scotland is being carried out on the poorer upland heath soils and the deep peats, on both of which special methods of ground preparation are necessary. On peat, drainage is essential, while on the mineral soils impeded drainage, iron pans, and impervious layers may restrict the spread of tree roots. These physical obstacles are easily recognised in the field, and may be successfully overcome by the use of modern heavy ploughing equipment. Chemical deficiencies in the soil are not so easy to detect, but the application of phosphate is now a routine procedure on many of the poorer soils, and particularly on the peats, and has resulted in the successful establishment of trees on all but the worst sites. Present work on forest soil at the Macaulay Institute includes the application of other fertilisers, particularly nitrogen, to older trees, a search for slower-acting forms of nitrogen and potash than the common agricultural fertilisers, and a study of the effects of the new forests on the soils.
42602499|The nomadic Somali are dependent upon the Acacias to feed their stock and supply many of their own needs. The country, rising from sea level to over 7000 feet, has few resources other than precarious grazing for the camels, goats, and sheep which form almost the only wealth of the people. Acacias provide the framework of the portable houses, charcoal, rope, browse, fencing, and numerous other necessities. This leads to enormous pressure on the vegetation, which is not at present holding its own. Unless a system of pasture management is introduced the grazing will continue to deteriorate.
42602824|An example of the successful artificial regeneration of Eucalyptus in North-East Rhodesia is described. The history behind the establishment of Eucalyptus in the area is given, including the basis of early methods and current practice. The system is based on the native "Chitimene" method of agriculture which involves the cutting, stacking and burning of indigenous bush, and the sowing of seed in the resultant ash accumulations. Advantages and disadvantages of the modified technique are discussed, together with the possible effects of both fire and ash on the soil complex. Some suggestions are made as to the possible application of the method in comparable areas of Central and East Africa where difficulties have been experienced in establishing exotic species by natural regeneration or other means. There is a short bibliography.
42601683|Statistics and data are given on land and forest area, climate, growth rates of exotic tree species, and soils. General problems of afforestation and artificial regeneration in Malaya and current research programmes are discussed. Nursery and planting experience with the following species are described : Eucalyptus deglupta Blume, E. robusta Sm., E. alba Reinw. ex Blume*; and other Eucalyptus species, Swietenia macrophylla King, Gmelina arborea Roxb., Shorea gysbertsiana Burk., Hymenaea courbaril L., Eusideroxylon zwageri Teysm. ex Binn., Pinus insularis Endl., Tec tona grandis Linn., and Albizzia falcata Back. The timber quality, stem form, and rate of growth of many indigenous tree species leaves little to be desired. Certain exotics are likely to prove useful for afforestation of sites where the micro-climate is unsuited to Malayan high forest forms, but would need to be outstanding in timber quality, rate of growth, or ease of establishment, to be introduced in productive forest in place of indigenous species of which natural regeneration can be successfully and economically established.
42600316|A brief review is given of the possible influences of forests on the water resources of an area, on the basis of a table due to Grunow. Fog-drip, erosion and sediment load, and ground storage are selected as topics for discussion. Divergent opinions about the water-losses caused by evapo-transpiration are next discussed as an introduction to the physical approach to the problem. Penman's work, combining the aerodynamic and heat balance methods of estimating evapo-transpiration, is taken as probably the most useful for hydrological purposes, and suggestions are made regarding slight (though perhaps laborious) modifications which may be necessary in applying this work to hilly country. The effects of the afforestation of catchment areas are then considered, the conclusion being that though the average effect over a wide area is likely to be small, there may be local variations from the average, either as excessive losses due to enhanced evapo-transpiration, or as gains due to fog-drip. The larger variations in either sense are likely to be concentrated in relatively small areas, with compensating effects spread over much bigger areas downwind. If the validity of this speculation can be established by a series of experiments, there appears to be a possibility of zoning different species of trees and other vegetation within a catchment area, to minimise the more serious local losses, make use of the local gains, and produce a resultant advantageous effect.
42600319|From the list of data compiled, it would appear that all forest trees are potential mycorrhiza-formers. Observations on occurrence, distribution, and types of infection, point to a great elasticity of the fungal-root partnership.
42602381|Continuing his note on forestry research in the various parts of the British Commonwealth of Nations, Professor Stebbing in Part II deals with outstanding items of investigations into forestry problems in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. In Canada he selects for comment the origins of concerted research there, how the various elements in the local economy have come together to share their problems and the scope of their investigations. In Australia he deals with the early background of forest destruction, its consequences in flood and fire, erosion and land deterioration, then he sketches in briefly the concerted measures taken to overcome these evil consequences. In New Zealand he briefly records the measures of reafforestation which have led to the present vast areas of coniferous plantations, mainly P. radiata. He records the consequences in pests and diseases and the measures which are being taken to combat these. In South Africa he tells of early research into the indigenous forest remnants at Kynsna, of subsequent introductions of conifers and of wattles. He ends with an outline of the measures taken for forestry research and education in the Union. Very short and therefore necessarily incomplete notes on the forestry position in Ceylon and Ghana complete the "Dominions" section.
42602574|An account is given of an investigation into the "quality", as measured by specific gravity, of Sitka spruce from six plantations in Great Britain. Measurements of specific gravity were made on successive annular samples, each comprising five growth rings, at various heights and from a number of trees. Within the tree, specific gravity tended to be high near the pith, fell to a minimum about 15-20 rings from the pith and then increased steadily to the cambium layer. This pattern occurred in every tree examined, from each site. Strength in compression parallel to the grain was generally proportional to specific gravity with the addition of a superimposed trend of increasing specific strength from pith to cambium, so that the high-density material at the pith did not have correspondingly high strength. The specific gravity of the wood accruing at a uniform age of 30 years is directly related to the latitude of growth, the heaviest wood being from trees in southern England and the lightest from trees in northern Scotland.
42602312|This is itself a summary of the Inter-African Conference on hydrology held at Nairobi in January 1961. Many papers were submitted and addresses made from which discussions ensued. The meeting wound up with excursions. Sessions were devoted to hydrology, radiation and precipitation measurements, ground water movement and availability and the hydrology of lakes, swamps and rivers. Although many of the papers were highly specialised the sessions on precipitation, streamflow and catchment areas contained much of value to the forester in the tropics, particularly those concerned with open woodlands in Central and East Africa.
42600855|Following experimental work carried out in 1951-52 by the Forest Research Institute, 14,400 acres of Pinus radiata have been treated with phosphate fertilisers in the Auckland Conservancy. Aerial application by the New Zealand Forest Service commenced in 1955 and has been confined almost exclusively to 25-30-year-old stands which had declined in vigour from age 10-12 years. The main fertiliser used has been superphosphate at a rate of 5 cwt. per acre, the average total cost amounting to 3 10s. per acre. In addition a private company has topdressed 3,900 acres. The response has been such that the addition of fertilisers by aeroplane is an accepted tool of management for radiata pine on phosphate deficient soils, although much has yet to be learnt concerning the time, optimum rate and frequency of application, and the benefits to be obtained by including other nutrients.
42601384|Mr. Robertson deals in his article with the history of veneers, and the need for such treatment. He gives some data on how they are prepared, how cut or peeled, how dried and trimmed. He ends with valuable advice as to selection and specifications when ordering veneered timber.
42602464|Before leaving Great Britain for Canada, D. N. Paterson was asked by a few foresters to present any information on exotic species currently being established, with a view to providing a guide to further silviculture and management in Britain. This article attempts to analyse certain characters of the virgin spruce-balsam forest in the Interior of British Columbia. As a forester with the Surveys Division of the British Columbia Forest Service, the author's work and observations span from the B. C.-Yukon border to the South Okanagan.
42599699|This brief account replaces a much fuller account submitted during the late war which has been spurlos versunken. It gives an account of the growth of a technique which has proved successful in establishing a dense scrub cover on practically pure sand, resulting in the invasion of a forest soil, with the possibility of even more valuable crops being raised in the future.
42600616|Illustrations are presented which show the type of development in depth of the central part of the root systems of either E. camaldulensis, or E. gomphocephala, in soils in Cyprus on which trees have suffered from gum vein development, infestation by Phoracantha semipunctata, the longhorn beetle, or from drought. It is suggested that, because of a variety of conditions which are to be found either in the physical, or chemical nature of the soils, the basic deficiency is to be found in an inadequate supply of water. This becomes critical with different sizes of trees according to the degree of adversity created.
42599639|A description is given of the way the census of woodlands in the British Zone of Germany is being carried out. New forest maps are being drawn and all compartments classified according to ownership, species and age classes. The author, who was recently directly connected with this work, makes an estimate of the total merchantable volume of Pine, Spruce, Oak arid Beech in the forests on ist October, 1945.
42601426|During the war years from 1939 to 1945, extensive areas of forest land administered by the Forestry Commission, near the south coast of England, were exposed to a high degree of fire risk owing to enemy air raids and other warlike operations. Fire precautions were therefore intensified; ploughed fire lines were formed on an extensive scale, new look-out towers erected, communications improved and mobile power-driven fire pumps introduced. Numerous fires were started by enemy action, but despite war-time difficulties the damage resulting was confined to a relatively small extent of land.
42602799|An account of a preliminary investigation into the root development of pine, cypress and Eucalyptus transplants following planting in the field. The note describes how glass sheets can be used to observe the growth of new roots and new mycorrhizae, and gives information on the time lag before the plants produce new roots and their subsequent rate of growth downwards through the first foot of soil (i.e. through the planting pit).
42600649|The influences discussed are theoretical and the writer has no evidence to show that the suggested effects are produced to any extent in practice. If legal considerations were given full weight in the management of private woodlands in Britain it is suggested that on the balance they would favour short against long rotations, conifers against hardwoods and even-aged against uneven-aged forest.
42602858|Mr. Davidson continues for a further fortnight or so his journey through Morocco ending it in Algiers. His notes end with some information on the work of the Algerian Soil Conservation Service and he describes their methods and the principles on which they work.
42602578|In one of the Sudan's few highland areas, the Forests Department operate two sawmills, utilising timber from both Mahogany forest and Podo forest. The mountains are reserved as part of a soil and water conservation project, where emphasis is given to afforestation of the catchment area, using both indigenous and exotic softwoods, or, in the plains, teak and mahogany. Forest Ranger students from the Khartoum training school visit the area annually as part of their course.
42602580|It is suggested that there is a great deal to be said for the traditional system of shifting cultivation in the wet tropics if it is not abused. Arguments are put forward to demonstrate that leaching by the concentrated "monsoon" rains washes nutrients in the soil down to such a depth that only the tree growth can recover them and maintain fertility. Advantages and disadvantages of shifting cultivation are reviewed as well as modern trends of thought on the rles of organic matter and fire in tropical agriculture. Finally, some suggestions are made as to how tree growth could best be used in agricultural systems.
42602758|Describes in more detail the kuda-kuda method, briefly mentioned in the writer's article on pages 47-51, Empire Forestry Review, Vol. 30, No. 1, 1951.
42600580|The background and experimentation leading to the present recommendations for the use of polythene bags for plant movements are described. The primary objective which led to the present recommendations for the use of polythene was the need to reduce the number of trees failing to become established in the forest and their consequent replacement. First experiments investigated ways of minimising planting losses through drying out of plants while in transit, by comparing various means of packing plants for despatch. Polythene film was found to give consistently good results and subsequent experiments have investigated how long plants can remain in polythene without deterioration. Polythene bags were used in Forestry Commission field trials on a moderate scale in the winter 1956/57 and 1957/58. They have generally been found very satisfactory, and have facilitated the movement of plants.
42598941|1. Blocks of wood were removed at monthly intervals for twelve months from two trees in the Gold Coast, one of Entandrophragma macrophyllum A. Chev. and one of Khaya grandifoliola C.DC. 2. Entandrophragma spp. have definite growth rings consisting of concentric bands of parenchyma. In the tree of Entandrophragma macrophyllum such bands were formed at the beginning of each of two consecutive growing seasons and at no other time. It appears, therefore, that ring counts may be expected to give a fairly reliable estimate of age in most species of this genus. 3. In Khay a spp. growth rings are often discontinuous and in the tree of Khaya grandifoliola it was not possible to correlate their formation with seasonal periodicity of growth; their value for estimating age thus appears to be very doubtful.
42602209|The author gives a general description of the part of Takoradi, its facilities and its drawbacks. He then describes how timber sawn in the log reaches the port, gives statistics of the destination of Ghana's timber exports and production of 5 years, comments on species exported and rate of flow to the port. He ends with some comments on the supply position and on future prospects of Ghana's timber trade.
42602794|Briefly describes the occurrence and distribution of Shorea albida in peat swamp forest in Sarawak and Brunei. Three vegetational associations are recognised, in two of which Shorea albida is gregarious. Approximately 30,000 acres of Shorea albida have been killed, and mortality has increased in the last ten years. Evidence from aerial photographic and ground surveys is given. The precise cause of the damage is unknown, but an unidentified and uncollected defoliating caterpillar is believed to be responsible. A contributory factor may be ecological disequilibrium of the peat-swamps.
42603156|This article deals mainly with problems affecting the future of mahogany supplies from Grand Cayman, largest island of the Cayman group, a dependency of Jamaica. In lighter vein, matters of "Treasure Trove", tarpon fishing and mosquitoes are touched upon. In conclusion, reference is made to the activities of Dr. C. F. Hickling, Colonial Office Fisheries Adviser, on a visit of investigation to Grand Cayman.
42601153|Essential to all forestry undertakings is the provision of continuing guaranteed finance. The Economic Survey of Forestry in Kenya, recently released by Government for general circulation, shows the Kenya solution of how future policy should be governed and financed. As it is revolutionary in its recommendations it is worthy of close study by all, but particularly by colonial foresters.
42602107|Simple over-cutting, of which examples are given, can be avoided either by waiting until an exploiter is willing to work only the estimated sustained yield of a forest, or by sterilizing sufficient additional forests to make up a series with the required capacity. But sustained yield will still depend on success in obtaining regeneration and bringing it to maturity in the time allowed. The character of tropical forests precludes economic working on short felling cycles, and post-exploitation canopies must suit the silvicultural needs of the primary species, except where taungya plantations are possible. Area control may cause fluctuations in output of commercial species, and be difficult to synchronize with pre-exploitation treatment as practised in Nigeria. The intensive exploitation contemplated in British Guiana may hinder regeneration of greenheart. If profit sharing is to replace royalties, funds adequate for regeneration should be paid to forest departments annually as essential timber development costs before net profits are calculated. Forest destruction was followed in Cyprus, as in France, by reconstitution for sustained yield. Is the sequence necessary?
42601577|The clinal plot layout, suggested by the late H. Pudden, appears to offer considerable saving in experimental area by dispensing with plot surrounds. It is shown that this advantage is completely outweighed by the impossibility of any valid statistical analysis.
42602500|Sir Harold Glover continues his series of articles on Soil Conservation in Parts of Africa and the Middle East by describing a visit to Jordan. Illustrated by an interesting series of photographs, he enumerates the soil conservation problems of that region under various headings and gives his impression of what is being done to combat the evils of over-grazing and the removal of vegetation from this hilly country.
42603153|The natural timber resources of the Union of South Africa are extremely limited, and the indigenous forests are never likely to play more than a very minor part in the timber economy of the country. The Department of Forestry has in the last fifty years or so introduced a very large number of coniferous timber trees from which the most suitable for commercial forestry have been selected. The timbers of these species are briefly described, and the uses to which thinnings from the plantations have been put are mentioned. It is shown how valuable an asset the plantations, even in their youth, have proved to the country as a whole. A critical evaluation of this comparatively fast-grown wood from stems from some of the small stands of relatively mature trees is made on the basis of strength, workability and defects. The two important classes of structural and factory timbers, each of which is divided into three grades in the Union, are briefly described, and used to obtain some comparison between the locally grown and the normal grade of imported softwoods. It is indicated that through pruning and other means, the local softwoods are likely to improve in quality, while the general standard of the imported timber is being lowered. In general it is concluded that while there may be some grounds for regarding the locally grown product as being in some respects less desirable than the slowly grown and more mature wood from overseas, these are not of sufficient importance to warrant any very significant change in silvicultural policy.
42600976|The experiments described were carried out during 1953-1959 as part of a general study of Scots pine seedling ecology and with the object of developing a practical method of establishing pine by direct seed sowing. The chief factors found to be responsible for mortality of seedlings in their first year, and especially in the weeks immediately after germination, are rodents, birds and slugs, with desiccation and water logging as occasional hazards. Success in direct sowing depends on the provision of a localised seed bed in which conditions for germination and seedling growth are near optimum so that a large and healthy seedling is obtained in the first year. Methods of ensuring this in the drier eastern and wetter western districts of the Scottish Highlands are described. It is concluded that, while good plants can certainly be produced in situ by these methods, further trials on a larger scale are required to determine whether spot sowing can ever be used to supplement or replace conventional planting procedure on certain sites.
42601069|Tracheid length was studied in 81 Pinus radiata D. Don seedlings, as part of an experiment to test the effect on seedling growth of three levels of Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potassium, in a factorial design. All the seed was from one tree. Analyses of variance of length, both near the pith and near the bark, showed that nutrient supply had no significant effect on tracheid length. Differences between seedlings appeared to be genetically controlled, and partly the result of open pollination. This conclusion, and the positive correlation between initial and final tracheid length confirms the validity of using length in the first ring as an indication of length in the adult wood. No correlation could be demonstrated between final tracheid length and distance from the pith. Pseudo-transverse cambial divisions occurred throughout the ring and there was no decrease in length at the end of the season or typical late wood. There was a posititive correlation between seedling height and final tracheid length. Tracheids immediately below a leaf trace were shorter than those elsewhere on the same section.
42601639|The Rondo is a small plateau between 2,000 and 3,000 feet high in the Southern Province of Tanganyika, and is within 50 miles of the coast. Some 50 square miles of the plateau have been a forest Reserve since 1909. The rainfall is about 40 inches a year. The following account refers only to the Reserve. Exploitation of the natural Mvule stands started in 1949 and was shortly followed by a planting scheme aimed at replacing the crop. Originally the annual plant was to start at 40 acres and increase by 40 acres a year until 120 acres was reached. The scheme included a research programme aimed not only at solving the Mvule planting problems, but natural regeneration techniques as well, and trial plots of various exotics.
42601065|This pamphlet first covers the scope of the industry in the Union of South Africa, goes on to relate the past history of the industry and then gives a further note on the present and the future. A list is given of present operators and the pamphlet ends with tables showing paper production and consumption in South Africa in 1959-60.
42599696|Denmark has nearly 1,000,000 acres of forest or 10 per cent of the land area. The climate is maritime, the annual rainfall being 17 inches to 34 inches, with maximum in August. Strong winds and frost are important factors. The soils are almost all of glacial origin. The original vegetation was hardwood forest, mainly oak and beech, but in the west most has been denuded and replaced by heathland, whilst beech predominates in the east. Modern forestry began with Von Langen in 1760, some of his plantings of conifers still surviving. Dune and heathland afforestation has been mainly done with Pinus montana; the older plantations are being converted to the more exacting conifers and hardwood, whilst coniferous mixtures are being tried in more recent heathland planting. The beech forests have deteriorated under past treatment and a larger part have been converted to spruce, mainly on economic grounds, spruce now being the country's most important species. National policy is now to preserve the remaining hardwood area and regeneration work is in progress, mainly sowing and planting under a shelter-wood. Oak is usually raised with birch or alder nurses and is being thinned earlier and more heavily than elsewhere. Management is based on periodic enumerations giving data for growing stock, increment and age-class distribution, but the local officers have much latitude. Considerable attention is being given to genetic problems.
42602825|Published methods of estimating the relationship of girth to age in unevenaged tropical forests of trees with indistinct growth rings are not very precise and involve some dubious graphical construction. By the use of simple arithmetic it is however possible to avoid some of these errors, and two examples have been worked out by this method, using the data of previous authors; the results obtained by each method are compared, and applications to Age /Height and Age/Volume relationships are indicated.
42602382|In the summer of 1956 the Soviet Government invited six foresters and an interpreter from the United Kingdom to visit the Soviet Union. This report gives an account of our tour which was devoted primarily to a study of forest research, shelter belts and silviculture. Our main stops were at Moscow, Kiev, Kharkov and at Sochi on the Black Sea whence we made an excursion into the Caucasus. The report is divided into two parts. Part I opens with some general notes on the forests and the forest policy of the U.S.S.R. The outstanding fact about the forests is their size: they account for about one quarter of the total forest area of the world. In the forest research institutes and training centres which we visited we found that the general organisation and the methods of working did not seem to differ greatly from what we are accustomed to in Western Europe. The large shelter belts in the Ukraine, on the other hand, of which thousands of miles have been planted in recent years and which have become a distinctive feature of the landscape, present many problems with which we are less familiar. Intensive cultivation and finding the correct mixture of tree and shrub species for each site appears to be the keys to success. Part II, which will follow in the next issue, will describe the forests and arboreta which we visited.
42599641|Forests formed the cradle of the evolution of human society in pre-history. They paid the price of later development of human society by their own extinction. The latter led ultimately to the decay and disappearance of the civilizations to which the forests were thoughtlessly sacrificed. If present civilizations are to endure man must be guided by the lessons of the past. Knowledge of the direct and indirect forest values is essential for adequate appreciation of the part these play in human economy and the dire consequences of the neglect of forest conservation. Forests play a greater part in rural than urban economy. The Ceylon villager who forms the bulk of the population lives literally by and on the forest. In addition to the more commonly known direct value as the source of the "Universal Rohstoff", timber forests have a much more important role to play, particularly in Ceylon, through its indirect influences, i.e., conservation of soil and water and amelioration of local climatic conditions. Nature has arranged that these good services be most pronounced when and where they are actually most needed. The study of the ways and means by which forests can and do affect microclimates of particular areas would help us find means of suiting local conditions to our special requirements, e.g., malarial control by screening pools and streams, eradication of swamps, etc.; shade trees in "industrial" plantations, wind belts in large State farms, etc. The coffee plantations of Ceylon abandoned owing to ravages of insect pests and fungal diseases would have escaped this fate had the more enlightened technique of growing it as now practised in the Gold Coast been known. Rubber plantations are known to do better under forestry methods of care and maintenance. The cardomon cultivator gives a lesson to others and the question arises as to whether the tea planter cannot do better by giving more attention to "forest influences" of this land. Afforestation has changed the landscape and local conditions in the extensive dry Patana grasslands of the Uva Province and made possible a real start with ministerial colonization schemes in that region. Judging from results, local as well as from the Nilgris hills, there is justification for the hope of amelioration of climatic and living conditions here as a result of afforestation. Much of the apparent fertility of tropical forest soils is illusory, entirely acquired by and dependent on the retention of the forest state. Wherever possible we must, as we do in the Eastern Province, replace shifting chena cultivation by co-operative reforestation. Much of Ceylon's agricultural welfare depends on irrigation. The supreme custodian of water and soil conservation is the forest. It is on the forest we should rather depend to control run-off, prevent erosion and keep springs and streams running clear and perennial rather than on soil and water conservation engineering.
42601063|The methods of extracting timber by Skyline Crane are briefly discussed and recent improvements described. New types of cranes, carrying 5-ton loads, are now in operation in many parts of the world and short descriptions are given of operations in Europe, India and British Columbia.
42600942|The greenhouse and field experiments described were carried out between 1953 and 1959 on various Scottish Nature Reserves and at the Edinburgh Headquarters of the Nature Conservancy. The principal factors investigated were (i) Light requirement, (ii) Influence of surface humus and litter layers, (iii) Phosphate nutrition, (iv) Mycorrhiza formation. The bearing of the results obtained on our understanding of the dynamics of the native Scottish pine forests is discussed.
42602501|Our Editor-Secretary made a pilgrimage to former haunts in Perthshire and apologises for inflicting his own nostalgic memories on our members. He describes the particular excursions he chose (there were daily alternatives). First the Black Wood of Rannoch and Drummond Hill were visited. On the second day he made the trip to Inshriach and Queen's Forest in the Spey Valley and on the third went to Murthly Estate and the mechanised nursery at Ledmore. The discussion session at the Atholl Palace Hotel is briefly summarised and the final session at Dunkeld House, after some digressions to see soft and hardwood plantations, receives passing mention.
42602185|The present position respecting a number of experiments with a system of planting by dense groups, widely spaced, which were established in Scotland and the north of England in the years 1929-32, is reported upon, with reference to a series of photographic illustrations taken in 1950. Earlier claims concerning advantages of such a system are discussed in the light of what these experiments now show. Expected disadvantages are similarly dealt with, as are new advantages which have emerged. The similarity of the method to the Russian method of "nest" sowing or planting is briefly considered. In general it is concluded that results are very promising and that the system is deserving of extensive trial under a variety of conditions. Suggestions as to the form such trials might take are offered. It is considered that the system is a plastic one and well adapted to lead to the formation of stands, irregular in composition and age, which in certain circumstances are for several reasons to be preferred to those regular stands which derive from even-aged orthodox plantations.
42602857|The author divides the forests of the U.S.S.R. into three categories and states what the regeneration methods are as applied to each type. He gives some statistics for disforestation and for regeneration. He describes the national forest policy with its many implications as to mechanisation, thinning and research.
42602539|The Cambridge Botanical Expedition to Nigeria examined the working of the "Tropical Shelterwood System" in the Okomu Forest Reserve, Benin. The forest here is perhaps an over-mature stand, at present breaking up through the action of storms, old age, and light scattered exploitation. In undisturbed forest the majority of the economically valuable emergents do not appear to be regenerating continuously, judging from the proportions of various size-classes; there are numerous saplings of some of the Meliaceae in and around gaps. At least forty to fifty saplings of "economics" per acre exist as advance growth when operations for regeneration begin; but a far greater number enter shortly before or after the first opening of the canopy. In the later stages of regeneration it is mainly worthless short-lived species characteristic of secondary forest that enter, though there is some further entrance of economics. Commercial exploitation is not likely to be followed by satisfactory regeneration without assistance, but provided that exploitation remains light, a system in which silviculture follows instead of precedes exploitation would be satisfactory. The possibility of regeneration after farming, with seed from emergents left standing over the crops, deserves study. Climber-tangle is of several kinds; beneath it there is sometimes valuable regeneration which needs assistance if the tangle is to revert reasonably quickly to high forest. To maintain natural mixtures of species and forms of forest is a measure of prudence; until much more is known about the ways in which species interact with each other and with the soil it is impossible to predict whether departure from natural forms will be followed by disaster or not.
42599840|During understorey weeding and canopy opening in tropical forest it is sometimes desirable to avoid frill cutting and with some types of labour equally desirable to prevent arsenical poisoning. Two possibilities have been tested; the use of relatively non-toxic substances where frills can be tolerated and the direct application of hormones to uncut bark. It is shown that emulsions of butyl chlorophenoxyacetates in used motor sump oil applied to bark are effective in the species tried and are therefore worth testing elsewhere.
42601061|The author confines himself to the Tropical Forestry Section of the Fifth World Congress. First, G. G. Watterson of F.A.O. deals with likely trends in forestry in Africa due to independence granted to ex colonies, with the danger of short-term views and how forestry enthusiasm may nevertheless be channelled. Messrs. Swabey, CO., and Chittenden, T.P. Institute, deal with management problems consequent upon the multiplicity of species and give their prescriptions for the future, based on rate of growth. Alastair Foggie, adopting an ecological approach from Ghana, does not despair of a solution, or a series of solutions, to the problems of natural regeneration there. V. S. Rao submits an historical note on Indian Forestry as does the Forestry Department in Burma but both prescribe for future developments in their respective regions. George LaBounty tells of the forestry position in British North Borneo and M. K. Shawki, dealing with forestry in the Middle East, tells of concern with forest degradation which has led to progress in Iran, Iraq, the Sudan and Cyprus. The Dawkins paper deals first with Refinement and Enrichment, has some new ideas on natural regeneration, and ends with a differentiation between Dynamic and Diagnostic sampling. Mr. Aubrville has a rosy view of the future for Tropical hardwoods but M. N. Gallant is not so hopeful about certain export markets though of opinion that rising living standards will look after many home markets. Alan Lamb's garden of Eden is Trinidad where forestry has passed the experimental stage and is appreciated, with finance no longer a limiting factor. Eero Kalkkinen, also from F.A.O., writing on Latin America is only pleased with pulp progress, though the foundations of forestry education are being laid. From Brazil C. J. W. Pitt reports on present logging practice but is not without hopes for future progress through Dawkinsian refinement. The article ends with the recommendations on Tropical Forestry most commendably produced the day after the final Plenary Session.
42602429|Deals in a general way with Belgian forestry consequent upon a brief visit to the country during the summer of 1948. The general topographical and climatic conditions are considered and some silvicultural items of interest seen on four private estates and in one State forest are briefly described, including an interesting method of converting artificial conifer stands to a system of natural regeneration, an interesting process of artificial regeneration, and other methods of afforestation on difficult infertile areas. Some information is also given on the relations between private forestry and the State, on forestry education and research, and on the effects of the last war.
42599649|Soon after the Allied Armies gained a firm foothold on the Italian peninsula Professor Nelson C. Brown was sent to Italy to advise the Allied Commission on a forestry programme. His report was made directly to the commission and has received only limited distribution. The summary presented here was prepared by Associate Editor Sisam, with the approval of Professor Brown. It describes Italian forests, their history, and potentialities. The plan presented provides ultimately for making Italy essentially self-sufficient in forest products.
42600850|A short paper dealing with the main problems arising from experiments to establish concentrated natural regeneration of commercially valuable species. Most species at present valuable are slow growing and shade tolerant and attempts to establish them under the shelterwood system have met with mixed success, but it seems that to tend a mixture with a high percentage of these species would require skilled, regular and heavy thinning which is not administratively feasible or economically sound. The most crucial problem is to decide what species are to be accepted for the final crop. For this a policy decision is needed: in short whether to grow for quality or for quantity. If for quality, the selection system seems the only possible system. If for quantity, a wider list of acceptable species, which would be bound to include several fast growing light demanders, would make the establishment of a mixed crop relatively easy and cheap. Such a mixed crop, however, would include few trees of species which at present command the highest prices.
42601357|Density variations in the timber of Ramin (Gonystylus bancanus (Miq.) Baill. are considered in material drawn from three sites, the padang forest, from the deltaic swamp and from the coastal swamp. Tables illustrate variations outwards from the pith and at various distances from the pith. Graphs are then drawn to illustrate variations in basic density and a diagram followed by a table deal with percentages of different tissues at different distances from the pith. The most striking difference observed was, unexpectedly, the higher proportion of fibres in the wood of the coastal swamp.
42601775|The pine forests of the Bahamas cover the three largest and most northerly-islands of the group. Nature has endowed this species of pine with remarkable regenerative powers in the face of all manner of obstacles. Past workings have been on a systematic basis and good records kept in spite of almost complete absence of any official control. Working started in 1900, and the writer estimates the first cut will be completed by 1978, as against his prescribed economic rotation of seventy-five years. These forests present the ideal "set-up" for text-book forestry. Extraction difficulties, particularly the long barge haul and loading into ships on the open sea, bring all exploitation of these forests into the "marginal" category.
42602026|Since 1942, when the first sawmills were established, Sierra Leone has become self-sufficient in timber supplies. An unusual feature of this development is that the Forest Department is the only large producer. All operations from logging to manufacture and marketing are carried out departmentally through the Forest Industries Branch of the Department, which is started by specially-recruited technical officers under the general management of a Colonial Forest Service officer. A very general account is given of the development and present operations of the Forest Industries Branch, of some of the problems encountered, and of future trends. Experience in Sierra Leone may be of value to other Colonial Forest Departments which have started, or are contemplating departmental exploitation.
42602793|This review was read by the author as a paper at the XIth International Congress of Entomology at Vienna, 1960. Circumstances which may affect attack in trees and felled logs are discussed under the headings physical, chemical and biological factors. It is concluded that although much work has been done many problems remain unsolved and some lines of further research are suggested. A reference list of 53 publications is appended.
42600974|This is a brief review of two publications giving evidence on the hydrological effects of conifer plantations on areas of Mount Kenya where bamboo forest formerly stood. Plantations are made by the "shamba" system by which clean weeded vegetables are grown between conifer seedlings. The first paper describes measurements on adjacent areas of bamboo forest and conifers. Electrical resistance units were used to measure seasonal changes in water storage. The experiment showed that the substitution of softwood plantations for bamboo thicket is not likely to affect streamflow adversely. The second study was an extension of the first and a full-scale catchment area was used. A progress report summarises the first three years results. Experiments on catchments fill in the data for the early stages of softwood rotation, for which simpler experiments could give no evidence. They show that pine seedlings use less water than bamboo seedlings in the first three years, but the difference is less after the first year. Final results must await completion of the conifer rotation, but it is becoming apparent that the hydrological results of the change from bamboo to conifer plantations are small. Two other sets of catchment area experiments concern an overgrazed area where peasant cultivation had been carried out on steep slopes. Simple assessments of sediment load show the high quality of water produced by forested catchments.
42601717|After a description of the Mediterranean climate and vegetation, the great amount of forest destruction and soil erosion which has taken place is mentioned, and overgrazing indicted as the major cause. Some of the attempts to restore the position in France, Italy and North Africa are described, and conclusions drawn from their relative success.
42601727|In this paper an attempt is made to show the amounts and kinds of waste which develop in the different branches of the wood-using industries from the cutting of the trees in the forest to their conversion into finished marketable products. The total loss from the forest to the finished product varies widely with the nature of the forest and the use which is made of the logs. The paper also shows how the percentage waste is gradually being reduced by improving operating techniques all along the extraction and production line. It also attempts to show the interdependence of lumber, pulp and other wood-using industries in obtaining a high degree of efficiency in the use of timber resources. Attention is drawn to some of the more recent developments in mechanical and chemical utilization of wood, and, particularly, wood waste, and some fields of development which justify further investigation are indicated. Throughout the paper frequent reference is made to the need of a great deal more research in order to widen the use of the large amounts of wood which are at present entirely wasted, or are put to low-grade uses.
42602683|The following paper originally appeared in Photogrammetric Engineering (June 1955) under the title "Some Photogrammetric Problems in Engineering Projects" and is reproduced in part with the permission of the Editor and of the Secretary of the American Society of Photogrammetry. Foresters have, in the past, been understandably sceptical of the accuracy obtainable by the use of aerial survey for contouring tropical forest areas. The following paper gives specific details of such a survey, a considerable proportion of which was later checked on the ground by traditional methods. From the results it would appear that the aerial survey methods are faster, cheaper and up to the standards of accuracy of ground survey alone.
42599637|The outlook of professional foresters has altered in many countries as a result of practical experience in the integration of forest management and afforestation into the larger picture of land use planning. A plea is put forward for Scottish foresters, and particularly those in government employment, to place more emphasis on the indirect benefits of afforestation in the domain of shelter-belts for livestock and highlevel planting to secure a more stable stream-flow for hydro-electric needs.
42601486|Only a small proportion of the area of merchantable native forest remaining is likely to prove amenable to intensive management under either even or uneven-aged systems of silviculture. A much larger area, however, may prove to be suitable for extensive management using more casual forms of silviculture. These and other matters are discussed.
42601151|The profitable utilization of small timber from silvicultural thinnings and from scrublands cleared to make way for productive woodlands in this country is a problem of pressing importance for which no precedent exists. It envisages dealing with a volume of some 10,000,000 cubic feet of timber this year, rising more or less steadily over the next fifty years to 40,000,000 cubic feet a year. The solution suggested lies in the development of a process which can deal with this material as it comes from the forestboth hardwood and softwoodwithout discrimination as to species, quality or size, combining new and economical methods of extraction with new methods of converting low-grade rough or crooked round timber. The new plant and the new methods developed are describedincorporating machines of revolutionary designto produce square-edged stock from small round timber by fast sawing into small dimensions and squares and by re-sawing into smaller sizes, mainly by semi-skilled labour.
42602311|This is a review of a report submitted as a thesis for a doctorate of philosophy. The review starts by giving the background to the newsprint industry carried on by Australian Newsprint Mills Pty. Ltd. in Tasmania. A large area of forest containing a large quantity of Eucalyptus regnans was granted to the company. During the first ten years it was evident that all was not well with the regeneration of E. regnans and a three-year fellowship to study the problem was given to Dr. J. M. Gilbert. His thesis was the result. The thesis firstly deals with the ecological background of E. regnans in which fire plays a large part. Secondly its seeding habits are dealt with. Part III deals with germination of seed and survival of seedlings. The nature of the seedbed is shown to be very important. Part IV deals with browsing by animals. Two species of wallaby and possums are the animals mainly responsible. Lastly Part V sums up the whole position. Natural and artificial regeneration are discussed.
42601635|This paper is a discussion on the thesis that, given adequate climatic suitability and freedom from infection and infestation, the manner of development of even-aged plantations and the type of forest which, given time, ultimately will develop, is largely determined by the prevailing soil conditions. Trees, according to their species, make certain inherent demands for feeding space, in order to achieve good growth. The space available tends sooner or later to be deficient as a source of satisfaction for these. This deficiency is always basically physical, or chemical, or both: according to its severity and character it mainly determines the natural course of development in canopy structure and through this, the limits within which silvicultural techniques achieve their aim. As a deficiency, it prevents growth occurring which naturally is attempted and through this frustration of growth disease develops. Examples are given to illustrate these things.
42601355|A fortnight in Corsica in June 1958 provided an opportunity of examining the environment of the Corsican pine forests and their setting in the mountain vegetation of the island. In the three large State forests where these studies were made, the Corsican pine, for the most part occurring as pure stands, extends from 900 metres to 1,500-1,600 metres (approx. 3,000-5,000 ft.): at the lower limit it competes with the maritime pine (Pinus pinaster), at the upper with beech (Fagus sylvatica), or sometimes silver fir (Abies alba), or birch (Betula verrucosa). Some account is given of the manner in which the distribution of these five trees, while basically linked with altitude, is modified by aspect and other local features. In the Fort de Valdo-niello continuous records of rainfall and air temperature over a four-year period permitted a comparison between certain climatic features of the Corsican pine forest and those of lowland and upland forest sites in Britain, where the planting of this exotic has been attended by variable results. The soil conditions in the optimum zone are also described. Granites are usually the parent rock in the main mountain chain where the Corsican pine forests are found: deep well-drained, rather fertile soils prevail in the valleys, but on steep, rocky, eroded hillslopes conditions are much less favourable. At the upper altitudes protection against fire and soil erosion is the main consideration in forest management.
42601154|The most important forest trees in Cyprus are two pines, Pinus nigra at high levels and Pinus halepensis at lower levels. The pine forests of Cyprus have been badly misused in the past, but during the last ten years they have at last been given almost complete relief from goat grazing. The response of Pinus halepensis has been remarkable and regeneration both natural and artificial has been easily obtained. Natural regeneration of Pinus nigra, however, seems to depend on more than one major factor. It seems that for this species goat grazing is only half the story, the other half being connected with the dates on which the winter snows fall and melt. At high altitudes, where Pinus nigra forest has been so burnt out that insufficient seed bearers remain, regeneration must be carried out by artificial means, On denuded land at these levels geology, slope and climate combine to produce an unstable soil on which few species can maintain a roothold or avoid being buried. Re-forestation seems to be impossible until soil movement has been reduced by the introduction of fast growing herbaceous colonizers.
42601153|Essential to all forestry undertakings is the provision of continuing guaranteed finance. The Economic Survey of Forestry in Kenya, recently released by Government for general circulation, shows the Kenya solution of how future policy should be governed and financed. As it is revolutionary in its recommendations it is worthy of close study by all, but particularly by colonial foresters.
42602107|Simple over-cutting, of which examples are given, can be avoided either by waiting until an exploiter is willing to work only the estimated sustained yield of a forest, or by sterilizing sufficient additional forests to make up a series with the required capacity. But sustained yield will still depend on success in obtaining regeneration and bringing it to maturity in the time allowed. The character of tropical forests precludes economic working on short felling cycles, and post-exploitation canopies must suit the silvicultural needs of the primary species, except where taungya plantations are possible. Area control may cause fluctuations in output of commercial species, and be difficult to synchronize with pre-exploitation treatment as practised in Nigeria. The intensive exploitation contemplated in British Guiana may hinder regeneration of greenheart. If profit sharing is to replace royalties, funds adequate for regeneration should be paid to forest departments annually as essential timber development costs before net profits are calculated. Forest destruction was followed in Cyprus, as in France, by reconstitution for sustained yield. Is the sequence necessary?
42601577|The clinal plot layout, suggested by the late H. Pudden, appears to offer considerable saving in experimental area by dispensing with plot surrounds. It is shown that this advantage is completely outweighed by the impossibility of any valid statistical analysis.
42602500|Sir Harold Glover continues his series of articles on Soil Conservation in Parts of Africa and the Middle East by describing a visit to Jordan. Illustrated by an interesting series of photographs, he enumerates the soil conservation problems of that region under various headings and gives his impression of what is being done to combat the evils of over-grazing and the removal of vegetation from this hilly country.
42603153|The natural timber resources of the Union of South Africa are extremely limited, and the indigenous forests are never likely to play more than a very minor part in the timber economy of the country. The Department of Forestry has in the last fifty years or so introduced a very large number of coniferous timber trees from which the most suitable for commercial forestry have been selected. The timbers of these species are briefly described, and the uses to which thinnings from the plantations have been put are mentioned. It is shown how valuable an asset the plantations, even in their youth, have proved to the country as a whole. A critical evaluation of this comparatively fast-grown wood from stems from some of the small stands of relatively mature trees is made on the basis of strength, workability and defects. The two important classes of structural and factory timbers, each of which is divided into three grades in the Union, are briefly described, and used to obtain some comparison between the locally grown and the normal grade of imported softwoods. It is indicated that through pruning and other means, the local softwoods are likely to improve in quality, while the general standard of the imported timber is being lowered. In general it is concluded that while there may be some grounds for regarding the locally grown product as being in some respects less desirable than the slowly grown and more mature wood from overseas, these are not of sufficient importance to warrant any very significant change in silvicultural policy.
42600976|The experiments described were carried out during 1953-1959 as part of a general study of Scots pine seedling ecology and with the object of developing a practical method of establishing pine by direct seed sowing. The chief factors found to be responsible for mortality of seedlings in their first year, and especially in the weeks immediately after germination, are rodents, birds and slugs, with desiccation and water logging as occasional hazards. Success in direct sowing depends on the provision of a localised seed bed in which conditions for germination and seedling growth are near optimum so that a large and healthy seedling is obtained in the first year. Methods of ensuring this in the drier eastern and wetter western districts of the Scottish Highlands are described. It is concluded that, while good plants can certainly be produced in situ by these methods, further trials on a larger scale are required to determine whether spot sowing can ever be used to supplement or replace conventional planting procedure on certain sites.
42601069|Tracheid length was studied in 81 Pinus radiata D. Don seedlings, as part of an experiment to test the effect on seedling growth of three levels of Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potassium, in a factorial design. All the seed was from one tree. Analyses of variance of length, both near the pith and near the bark, showed that nutrient supply had no significant effect on tracheid length. Differences between seedlings appeared to be genetically controlled, and partly the result of open pollination. This conclusion, and the positive correlation between initial and final tracheid length confirms the validity of using length in the first ring as an indication of length in the adult wood. No correlation could be demonstrated between final tracheid length and distance from the pith. Pseudo-transverse cambial divisions occurred throughout the ring and there was no decrease in length at the end of the season or typical late wood. There was a posititive correlation between seedling height and final tracheid length. Tracheids immediately below a leaf trace were shorter than those elsewhere on the same section.
42601639|The Rondo is a small plateau between 2,000 and 3,000 feet high in the Southern Province of Tanganyika, and is within 50 miles of the coast. Some 50 square miles of the plateau have been a forest Reserve since 1909. The rainfall is about 40 inches a year. The following account refers only to the Reserve. Exploitation of the natural Mvule stands started in 1949 and was shortly followed by a planting scheme aimed at replacing the crop. Originally the annual plant was to start at 40 acres and increase by 40 acres a year until 120 acres was reached. The scheme included a research programme aimed not only at solving the Mvule planting problems, but natural regeneration techniques as well, and trial plots of various exotics.
42601065|This pamphlet first covers the scope of the industry in the Union of South Africa, goes on to relate the past history of the industry and then gives a further note on the present and the future. A list is given of present operators and the pamphlet ends with tables showing paper production and consumption in South Africa in 1959-60.
42599696|Denmark has nearly 1,000,000 acres of forest or 10 per cent of the land area. The climate is maritime, the annual rainfall being 17 inches to 34 inches, with maximum in August. Strong winds and frost are important factors. The soils are almost all of glacial origin. The original vegetation was hardwood forest, mainly oak and beech, but in the west most has been denuded and replaced by heathland, whilst beech predominates in the east. Modern forestry began with Von Langen in 1760, some of his plantings of conifers still surviving. Dune and heathland afforestation has been mainly done with Pinus montana; the older plantations are being converted to the more exacting conifers and hardwood, whilst coniferous mixtures are being tried in more recent heathland planting. The beech forests have deteriorated under past treatment and a larger part have been converted to spruce, mainly on economic grounds, spruce now being the country's most important species. National policy is now to preserve the remaining hardwood area and regeneration work is in progress, mainly sowing and planting under a shelter-wood. Oak is usually raised with birch or alder nurses and is being thinned earlier and more heavily than elsewhere. Management is based on periodic enumerations giving data for growing stock, increment and age-class distribution, but the local officers have much latitude. Considerable attention is being given to genetic problems.
42602825|Published methods of estimating the relationship of girth to age in unevenaged tropical forests of trees with indistinct growth rings are not very precise and involve some dubious graphical construction. By the use of simple arithmetic it is however possible to avoid some of these errors, and two examples have been worked out by this method, using the data of previous authors; the results obtained by each method are compared, and applications to Age /Height and Age/Volume relationships are indicated.
42602382|In the summer of 1956 the Soviet Government invited six foresters and an interpreter from the United Kingdom to visit the Soviet Union. This report gives an account of our tour which was devoted primarily to a study of forest research, shelter belts and silviculture. Our main stops were at Moscow, Kiev, Kharkov and at Sochi on the Black Sea whence we made an excursion into the Caucasus. The report is divided into two parts. Part I opens with some general notes on the forests and the forest policy of the U.S.S.R. The outstanding fact about the forests is their size: they account for about one quarter of the total forest area of the world. In the forest research institutes and training centres which we visited we found that the general organisation and the methods of working did not seem to differ greatly from what we are accustomed to in Western Europe. The large shelter belts in the Ukraine, on the other hand, of which thousands of miles have been planted in recent years and which have become a distinctive feature of the landscape, present many problems with which we are less familiar. Intensive cultivation and finding the correct mixture of tree and shrub species for each site appears to be the keys to success. Part II, which will follow in the next issue, will describe the forests and arboreta which we visited.
42599641|Forests formed the cradle of the evolution of human society in pre-history. They paid the price of later development of human society by their own extinction. The latter led ultimately to the decay and disappearance of the civilizations to which the forests were thoughtlessly sacrificed. If present civilizations are to endure man must be guided by the lessons of the past. Knowledge of the direct and indirect forest values is essential for adequate appreciation of the part these play in human economy and the dire consequences of the neglect of forest conservation. Forests play a greater part in rural than urban economy. The Ceylon villager who forms the bulk of the population lives literally by and on the forest. In addition to the more commonly known direct value as the source of the "Universal Rohstoff", timber forests have a much more important role to play, particularly in Ceylon, through its indirect influences, i.e., conservation of soil and water and amelioration of local climatic conditions. Nature has arranged that these good services be most pronounced when and where they are actually most needed. The study of the ways and means by which forests can and do affect microclimates of particular areas would help us find means of suiting local conditions to our special requirements, e.g., malarial control by screening pools and streams, eradication of swamps, etc.; shade trees in "industrial" plantations, wind belts in large State farms, etc. The coffee plantations of Ceylon abandoned owing to ravages of insect pests and fungal diseases would have escaped this fate had the more enlightened technique of growing it as now practised in the Gold Coast been known. Rubber plantations are known to do better under forestry methods of care and maintenance. The cardomon cultivator gives a lesson to others and the question arises as to whether the tea planter cannot do better by giving more attention to "forest influences" of this land. Afforestation has changed the landscape and local conditions in the extensive dry Patana grasslands of the Uva Province and made possible a real start with ministerial colonization schemes in that region. Judging from results, local as well as from the Nilgris hills, there is justification for the hope of amelioration of climatic and living conditions here as a result of afforestation. Much of the apparent fertility of tropical forest soils is illusory, entirely acquired by and dependent on the retention of the forest state. Wherever possible we must, as we do in the Eastern Province, replace shifting chena cultivation by co-operative reforestation. Much of Ceylon's agricultural welfare depends on irrigation. The supreme custodian of water and soil conservation is the forest. It is on the forest we should rather depend to control run-off, prevent erosion and keep springs and streams running clear and perennial rather than on soil and water conservation engineering.
42601063|The methods of extracting timber by Skyline Crane are briefly discussed and recent improvements described. New types of cranes, carrying 5-ton loads, are now in operation in many parts of the world and short descriptions are given of operations in Europe, India and British Columbia.
42600942|The greenhouse and field experiments described were carried out between 1953 and 1959 on various Scottish Nature Reserves and at the Edinburgh Headquarters of the Nature Conservancy. The principal factors investigated were (i) Light requirement, (ii) Influence of surface humus and litter layers, (iii) Phosphate nutrition, (iv) Mycorrhiza formation. The bearing of the results obtained on our understanding of the dynamics of the native Scottish pine forests is discussed.
42602501|Our Editor-Secretary made a pilgrimage to former haunts in Perthshire and apologises for inflicting his own nostalgic memories on our members. He describes the particular excursions he chose (there were daily alternatives). First the Black Wood of Rannoch and Drummond Hill were visited. On the second day he made the trip to Inshriach and Queen's Forest in the Spey Valley and on the third went to Murthly Estate and the mechanised nursery at Ledmore. The discussion session at the Atholl Palace Hotel is briefly summarised and the final session at Dunkeld House, after some digressions to see soft and hardwood plantations, receives passing mention.
42602185|The present position respecting a number of experiments with a system of planting by dense groups, widely spaced, which were established in Scotland and the north of England in the years 1929-32, is reported upon, with reference to a series of photographic illustrations taken in 1950. Earlier claims concerning advantages of such a system are discussed in the light of what these experiments now show. Expected disadvantages are similarly dealt with, as are new advantages which have emerged. The similarity of the method to the Russian method of "nest" sowing or planting is briefly considered. In general it is concluded that results are very promising and that the system is deserving of extensive trial under a variety of conditions. Suggestions as to the form such trials might take are offered. It is considered that the system is a plastic one and well adapted to lead to the formation of stands, irregular in composition and age, which in certain circumstances are for several reasons to be preferred to those regular stands which derive from even-aged orthodox plantations.
42602857|The author divides the forests of the U.S.S.R. into three categories and states what the regeneration methods are as applied to each type. He gives some statistics for disforestation and for regeneration. He describes the national forest policy with its many implications as to mechanisation, thinning and research.
42602539|The Cambridge Botanical Expedition to Nigeria examined the working of the "Tropical Shelterwood System" in the Okomu Forest Reserve, Benin. The forest here is perhaps an over-mature stand, at present breaking up through the action of storms, old age, and light scattered exploitation. In undisturbed forest the majority of the economically valuable emergents do not appear to be regenerating continuously, judging from the proportions of various size-classes; there are numerous saplings of some of the Meliaceae in and around gaps. At least forty to fifty saplings of "economics" per acre exist as advance growth when operations for regeneration begin; but a far greater number enter shortly before or after the first opening of the canopy. In the later stages of regeneration it is mainly worthless short-lived species characteristic of secondary forest that enter, though there is some further entrance of economics. Commercial exploitation is not likely to be followed by satisfactory regeneration without assistance, but provided that exploitation remains light, a system in which silviculture follows instead of precedes exploitation would be satisfactory. The possibility of regeneration after farming, with seed from emergents left standing over the crops, deserves study. Climber-tangle is of several kinds; beneath it there is sometimes valuable regeneration which needs assistance if the tangle is to revert reasonably quickly to high forest. To maintain natural mixtures of species and forms of forest is a measure of prudence; until much more is known about the ways in which species interact with each other and with the soil it is impossible to predict whether departure from natural forms will be followed by disaster or not.
42599840|During understorey weeding and canopy opening in tropical forest it is sometimes desirable to avoid frill cutting and with some types of labour equally desirable to prevent arsenical poisoning. Two possibilities have been tested; the use of relatively non-toxic substances where frills can be tolerated and the direct application of hormones to uncut bark. It is shown that emulsions of butyl chlorophenoxyacetates in used motor sump oil applied to bark are effective in the species tried and are therefore worth testing elsewhere.
42601061|The author confines himself to the Tropical Forestry Section of the Fifth World Congress. First, G. G. Watterson of F.A.O. deals with likely trends in forestry in Africa due to independence granted to ex colonies, with the danger of short-term views and how forestry enthusiasm may nevertheless be channelled. Messrs. Swabey, CO., and Chittenden, T.P. Institute, deal with management problems consequent upon the multiplicity of species and give their prescriptions for the future, based on rate of growth. Alastair Foggie, adopting an ecological approach from Ghana, does not despair of a solution, or a series of solutions, to the problems of natural regeneration there. V. S. Rao submits an historical note on Indian Forestry as does the Forestry Department in Burma but both prescribe for future developments in their respective regions. George LaBounty tells of the forestry position in British North Borneo and M. K. Shawki, dealing with forestry in the Middle East, tells of concern with forest degradation which has led to progress in Iran, Iraq, the Sudan and Cyprus. The Dawkins paper deals first with Refinement and Enrichment, has some new ideas on natural regeneration, and ends with a differentiation between Dynamic and Diagnostic sampling. Mr. Aubrville has a rosy view of the future for Tropical hardwoods but M. N. Gallant is not so hopeful about certain export markets though of opinion that rising living standards will look after many home markets. Alan Lamb's garden of Eden is Trinidad where forestry has passed the experimental stage and is appreciated, with finance no longer a limiting factor. Eero Kalkkinen, also from F.A.O., writing on Latin America is only pleased with pulp progress, though the foundations of forestry education are being laid. From Brazil C. J. W. Pitt reports on present logging practice but is not without hopes for future progress through Dawkinsian refinement. The article ends with the recommendations on Tropical Forestry most commendably produced the day after the final Plenary Session.
42602429|Deals in a general way with Belgian forestry consequent upon a brief visit to the country during the summer of 1948. The general topographical and climatic conditions are considered and some silvicultural items of interest seen on four private estates and in one State forest are briefly described, including an interesting method of converting artificial conifer stands to a system of natural regeneration, an interesting process of artificial regeneration, and other methods of afforestation on difficult infertile areas. Some information is also given on the relations between private forestry and the State, on forestry education and research, and on the effects of the last war.
42599649|Soon after the Allied Armies gained a firm foothold on the Italian peninsula Professor Nelson C. Brown was sent to Italy to advise the Allied Commission on a forestry programme. His report was made directly to the commission and has received only limited distribution. The summary presented here was prepared by Associate Editor Sisam, with the approval of Professor Brown. It describes Italian forests, their history, and potentialities. The plan presented provides ultimately for making Italy essentially self-sufficient in forest products.
42600850|A short paper dealing with the main problems arising from experiments to establish concentrated natural regeneration of commercially valuable species. Most species at present valuable are slow growing and shade tolerant and attempts to establish them under the shelterwood system have met with mixed success, but it seems that to tend a mixture with a high percentage of these species would require skilled, regular and heavy thinning which is not administratively feasible or economically sound. The most crucial problem is to decide what species are to be accepted for the final crop. For this a policy decision is needed: in short whether to grow for quality or for quantity. If for quality, the selection system seems the only possible system. If for quantity, a wider list of acceptable species, which would be bound to include several fast growing light demanders, would make the establishment of a mixed crop relatively easy and cheap. Such a mixed crop, however, would include few trees of species which at present command the highest prices.
42601357|Density variations in the timber of Ramin (Gonystylus bancanus (Miq.) Baill. are considered in material drawn from three sites, the padang forest, from the deltaic swamp and from the coastal swamp. Tables illustrate variations outwards from the pith and at various distances from the pith. Graphs are then drawn to illustrate variations in basic density and a diagram followed by a table deal with percentages of different tissues at different distances from the pith. The most striking difference observed was, unexpectedly, the higher proportion of fibres in the wood of the coastal swamp.
42601775|The pine forests of the Bahamas cover the three largest and most northerly-islands of the group. Nature has endowed this species of pine with remarkable regenerative powers in the face of all manner of obstacles. Past workings have been on a systematic basis and good records kept in spite of almost complete absence of any official control. Working started in 1900, and the writer estimates the first cut will be completed by 1978, as against his prescribed economic rotation of seventy-five years. These forests present the ideal "set-up" for text-book forestry. Extraction difficulties, particularly the long barge haul and loading into ships on the open sea, bring all exploitation of these forests into the "marginal" category.
42602026|Since 1942, when the first sawmills were established, Sierra Leone has become self-sufficient in timber supplies. An unusual feature of this development is that the Forest Department is the only large producer. All operations from logging to manufacture and marketing are carried out departmentally through the Forest Industries Branch of the Department, which is started by specially-recruited technical officers under the general management of a Colonial Forest Service officer. A very general account is given of the development and present operations of the Forest Industries Branch, of some of the problems encountered, and of future trends. Experience in Sierra Leone may be of value to other Colonial Forest Departments which have started, or are contemplating departmental exploitation.
42602793|This review was read by the author as a paper at the XIth International Congress of Entomology at Vienna, 1960. Circumstances which may affect attack in trees and felled logs are discussed under the headings physical, chemical and biological factors. It is concluded that although much work has been done many problems remain unsolved and some lines of further research are suggested. A reference list of 53 publications is appended.
42600974|This is a brief review of two publications giving evidence on the hydrological effects of conifer plantations on areas of Mount Kenya where bamboo forest formerly stood. Plantations are made by the "shamba" system by which clean weeded vegetables are grown between conifer seedlings. The first paper describes measurements on adjacent areas of bamboo forest and conifers. Electrical resistance units were used to measure seasonal changes in water storage. The experiment showed that the substitution of softwood plantations for bamboo thicket is not likely to affect streamflow adversely. The second study was an extension of the first and a full-scale catchment area was used. A progress report summarises the first three years results. Experiments on catchments fill in the data for the early stages of softwood rotation, for which simpler experiments could give no evidence. They show that pine seedlings use less water than bamboo seedlings in the first three years, but the difference is less after the first year. Final results must await completion of the conifer rotation, but it is becoming apparent that the hydrological results of the change from bamboo to conifer plantations are small. Two other sets of catchment area experiments concern an overgrazed area where peasant cultivation had been carried out on steep slopes. Simple assessments of sediment load show the high quality of water produced by forested catchments.
42601717|After a description of the Mediterranean climate and vegetation, the great amount of forest destruction and soil erosion which has taken place is mentioned, and overgrazing indicted as the major cause. Some of the attempts to restore the position in France, Italy and North Africa are described, and conclusions drawn from their relative success.
42601727|In this paper an attempt is made to show the amounts and kinds of waste which develop in the different branches of the wood-using industries from the cutting of the trees in the forest to their conversion into finished marketable products. The total loss from the forest to the finished product varies widely with the nature of the forest and the use which is made of the logs. The paper also shows how the percentage waste is gradually being reduced by improving operating techniques all along the extraction and production line. It also attempts to show the interdependence of lumber, pulp and other wood-using industries in obtaining a high degree of efficiency in the use of timber resources. Attention is drawn to some of the more recent developments in mechanical and chemical utilization of wood, and, particularly, wood waste, and some fields of development which justify further investigation are indicated. Throughout the paper frequent reference is made to the need of a great deal more research in order to widen the use of the large amounts of wood which are at present entirely wasted, or are put to low-grade uses.
42602683|The following paper originally appeared in Photogrammetric Engineering (June 1955) under the title "Some Photogrammetric Problems in Engineering Projects" and is reproduced in part with the permission of the Editor and of the Secretary of the American Society of Photogrammetry. Foresters have, in the past, been understandably sceptical of the accuracy obtainable by the use of aerial survey for contouring tropical forest areas. The following paper gives specific details of such a survey, a considerable proportion of which was later checked on the ground by traditional methods. From the results it would appear that the aerial survey methods are faster, cheaper and up to the standards of accuracy of ground survey alone.
42599637|The outlook of professional foresters has altered in many countries as a result of practical experience in the integration of forest management and afforestation into the larger picture of land use planning. A plea is put forward for Scottish foresters, and particularly those in government employment, to place more emphasis on the indirect benefits of afforestation in the domain of shelter-belts for livestock and highlevel planting to secure a more stable stream-flow for hydro-electric needs.
42601486|Only a small proportion of the area of merchantable native forest remaining is likely to prove amenable to intensive management under either even or uneven-aged systems of silviculture. A much larger area, however, may prove to be suitable for extensive management using more casual forms of silviculture. These and other matters are discussed.
42601151|The profitable utilization of small timber from silvicultural thinnings and from scrublands cleared to make way for productive woodlands in this country is a problem of pressing importance for which no precedent exists. It envisages dealing with a volume of some 10,000,000 cubic feet of timber this year, rising more or less steadily over the next fifty years to 40,000,000 cubic feet a year. The solution suggested lies in the development of a process which can deal with this material as it comes from the forestboth hardwood and softwoodwithout discrimination as to species, quality or size, combining new and economical methods of extraction with new methods of converting low-grade rough or crooked round timber. The new plant and the new methods developed are describedincorporating machines of revolutionary designto produce square-edged stock from small round timber by fast sawing into small dimensions and squares and by re-sawing into smaller sizes, mainly by semi-skilled labour.
42602311|This is a review of a report submitted as a thesis for a doctorate of philosophy. The review starts by giving the background to the newsprint industry carried on by Australian Newsprint Mills Pty. Ltd. in Tasmania. A large area of forest containing a large quantity of Eucalyptus regnans was granted to the company. During the first ten years it was evident that all was not well with the regeneration of E. regnans and a three-year fellowship to study the problem was given to Dr. J. M. Gilbert. His thesis was the result. The thesis firstly deals with the ecological background of E. regnans in which fire plays a large part. Secondly its seeding habits are dealt with. Part III deals with germination of seed and survival of seedlings. The nature of the seedbed is shown to be very important. Part IV deals with browsing by animals. Two species of wallaby and possums are the animals mainly responsible. Lastly Part V sums up the whole position. Natural and artificial regeneration are discussed.
42601635|This paper is a discussion on the thesis that, given adequate climatic suitability and freedom from infection and infestation, the manner of development of even-aged plantations and the type of forest which, given time, ultimately will develop, is largely determined by the prevailing soil conditions. Trees, according to their species, make certain inherent demands for feeding space, in order to achieve good growth. The space available tends sooner or later to be deficient as a source of satisfaction for these. This deficiency is always basically physical, or chemical, or both: according to its severity and character it mainly determines the natural course of development in canopy structure and through this, the limits within which silvicultural techniques achieve their aim. As a deficiency, it prevents growth occurring which naturally is attempted and through this frustration of growth disease develops. Examples are given to illustrate these things.
42601355|A fortnight in Corsica in June 1958 provided an opportunity of examining the environment of the Corsican pine forests and their setting in the mountain vegetation of the island. In the three large State forests where these studies were made, the Corsican pine, for the most part occurring as pure stands, extends from 900 metres to 1,500-1,600 metres (approx. 3,000-5,000 ft.): at the lower limit it competes with the maritime pine (Pinus pinaster), at the upper with beech (Fagus sylvatica), or sometimes silver fir (Abies alba), or birch (Betula verrucosa). Some account is given of the manner in which the distribution of these five trees, while basically linked with altitude, is modified by aspect and other local features. In the Fort de Valdo-niello continuous records of rainfall and air temperature over a four-year period permitted a comparison between certain climatic features of the Corsican pine forest and those of lowland and upland forest sites in Britain, where the planting of this exotic has been attended by variable results. The soil conditions in the optimum zone are also described. Granites are usually the parent rock in the main mountain chain where the Corsican pine forests are found: deep well-drained, rather fertile soils prevail in the valleys, but on steep, rocky, eroded hillslopes conditions are much less favourable. At the upper altitudes protection against fire and soil erosion is the main consideration in forest management.
42601154|The most important forest trees in Cyprus are two pines, Pinus nigra at high levels and Pinus halepensis at lower levels. The pine forests of Cyprus have been badly misused in the past, but during the last ten years they have at last been given almost complete relief from goat grazing. The response of Pinus halepensis has been remarkable and regeneration both natural and artificial has been easily obtained. Natural regeneration of Pinus nigra, however, seems to depend on more than one major factor. It seems that for this species goat grazing is only half the story, the other half being connected with the dates on which the winter snows fall and melt. At high altitudes, where Pinus nigra forest has been so burnt out that insufficient seed bearers remain, regeneration must be carried out by artificial means, On denuded land at these levels geology, slope and climate combine to produce an unstable soil on which few species can maintain a roothold or avoid being buried. Re-forestation seems to be impossible until soil movement has been reduced by the introduction of fast growing herbaceous colonizers.
