10.2307/3776780|Dactylanthus taylorii (Balanophoraceae) is a root-holoparasitic flowering plant endemic to New Zealand. The development and anatomy of its female flower and derivates, germination, vegetative reproduction, the morphology and function of infectious roots, and the genetic diversity of populations are investigated. Other notes include history of research on the species, its general habit, systematic position, distribution, human use, and a brief description of the male flower. The female flower is comprised largely of a single ovary, and is characterised by a central pistil-like structure in which two embryo sacs develop. Various interpretations of this structure in the literature are discussed, and it is concluded that it is homologous to one or several nucelli, and may include also non-nucellate tissue. In the absence of integuments an orthodox terminology of ovule type is not regarded as useful. It is argued that the frequently cited development of the 'micropylar' megaspore into an embryo sac in Balanophoraceae is based on a misinterpretation of the orientation of the ovarian structures, and that all taxa studied so far follow in their development the common Allium or Polygonum type. The development of the endosperm and the morphology of the embryo in D. taylorii are investigated for the first time. Germination of the fruits and their attachment to a host root are described in detail, and results of three, only partially successful germination experiments are given. Seeds of D. taylorii are able to germinate in the absence of any host, and germinated seeds survive for a prolonged period of time in the soil. Vegetative reproduction through specialised infectious roots formed at the base of inflorescences is confirmed. Infectious roots and radicles are identical in morphology, and are characterised by hair cells with micro-papillate, bulbous bases. The ultrastructure of the micro-papillae is examined, and their possible function discussed. Both radicles and infectious roots show a tropic reaction to the presence of a possible host, but this reaction is not limited to host roots alone and is seen as rather unspecific. A hypothesis is put forward for the germination strategy in D. taylorii. The use of random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) for the investigation of genetic diversity in the endangered D. taylorii is evaluated, and the suitability of the technique confirmed. Preliminary results using samples from three populations show a distinctness even of neighbouring populations. The occurrence of monoecy is not supported by genetic analysis, rather, tubers that bear inflorescences of different sex are seen as consisting of several individuals growing closely together (chimaeras). Implications of these findings for the conservation of species are discussed.
24365179|Was ein Garten ist, wie der Transfer von Pflanzen vom natrlichen Standort in einen Garten funktioniert, wie Kultivare und Raritten ausgewhlt werden, schildert dieser Beitrag. Er erlutert gleichzeitig auch das Konzept einer pflanzengeographischen Anlage am Beispiel des Botanischen Gartens Berlin-Dahlem. An attempt is made to elucidate the philosophy of a garden, to show how plants are transferred from natural stands into a garden, and to describe how cultivars and rarities are selected. At the same time the concept of a garden laid out according to the principles of plant geography is explained using the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem as an example.
24365180|Der Verfasser beschftigt sich mit ICOM, der wissenschaftlichen Museologie der Strnsk-Schule und botanischen Grten. Da ICOM und die wissenschaftliche Museologie botanische Grten und Zoos als Museen betrachten, geht er auf diese Basisannahmen ein und diskutiert die Ablehnung der von UNESCO/ICOM verwendeten Begriffe kulturelles und natrliches Erbe und des vom Denkmalschutz verwendeten Begriffs Denkmal durch die Strnsk-Schule. Der politische Wert dieser Begriffe wird zwar anerkannt, nicht aber ihr wissenschaftlicher. Der Autor geht auf das spezifische Erkenntnisobjekt der Museologie ein, seine Geschichte, Verbreitung und Aufgliederung. Im letzten Teil versucht der Verfasser, botanische Grten mit museologischer Brille zu betrachten. The author discusses the philosophies of ICOM, museology and botanical gardens. He uses the broad concept of scientific museology based on its nestor Z. Z. Strnsk. Since ICOM and museology are treating botanical gardens and zoos as museums, he questions the ideas behind and deals with the rejection of the terms 'cultural and natural heritage' (used by UNESCO/ICOM) and 'monument' (used by the institutions for the preservation of monuments) by the Strnsk school. The political value of these terms is recognized, but not their scientific one. The author gives an introduction to the specific scientific object of museology, its history and structure. In the final part, the author offers a museological view on botanical gardens.
24365181|Der Alte Botanische Garten in Mnchen, d. h. der ehemals knigliche botanische Garten, ist heute nur mehr rudimentr erahnbar. Er wurde mehrfach mehr oder weniger willkrlich umgestaltet. Eine museale Vermittlung als historisch besonderer Ort ist nahezu nicht vorhanden. Die Bedeutung des Alten Botanischen Gartens fr die Stadtentwicklung wird nicht gewrdigt. Die nationalsozialistischen Vernderungen haben ein zu starkes Gewicht. Die Autorin entwickelt im Beitrag aus museologischer und kritischer Sicht Vorschlge, wie der Alte Botanische Garten rekultiviert werden kann. The Old Botanical Garden in the city centre of Munich, formerly the Royal Botanical Garden, is recognizable only as a rudiment. The garden was transformed several times more or less arbitrarily for political, commercial and social reasons. Except for a few explanatory words on a sign, its function as a site of historic importance is not mentioned, and no tribute at all is paid to the significant role it played in the city's development. The changes made during the Nazi era still weigh too heavily. The author offers some ideas from a critical museological perspective how to recultivate the garden.
10.2307/20358184|The Adenio obesi-Sterculietum africanae, a drought-deciduous woodland community, is described as a new association from the Jabal Arays, northeast of Shuqra in the Abyan governorate, in mainland Yemen. It is characterized by the large emergents of Sterculia africana var. africana, overtopping the tree layer nearly double. Floristic, ecological and physiognomic affinities strongly point at a joint origin of the drought-deciduous Adenium-Sterculia woodland on the Arabian-African mainland and Socotra. The new association is also widespread in Africa and is best classified in the Boscio angustifoliae-Commiphoretea abyssinicae class, which comprises the various types of Acacia-Commiphora woodland.
24365188|Der Beitrag gibt einen kurzen Abriss der Geschichte des Botanischen Gartens Mnchen an seinem heutigen Standort in Nymphenburg wobei der Schwerpunkt auf den historischen Gebuden und Kunstwerken liegt. A brief history is provided of the Munich Botanical Garden, focusing on the past 100 years. The garden's main historical buildings and works of art are illustrated.
10.2307/3776783| The lichens growing on Quercus ilex, Q. pubescens s. lat., Q. suber and Q. coccifera s. lat. were studied at 92 plots placed in 62 selected localities spread throughout Sardinia (Italy). Earlier reports of species in the island were taken into consideration. On all oak species, 331 lichen taxa were found. During the project Lecanora leuckertiana was discovered, as well as a new variety, Ramalina farinacea var. variolarica and a new chemotype of Lepraria nivalis. Further 75 taxa are new to Sardinia, 13 of which are also new to Italy (Chaenothecopsis vainioana, Lecania cf. lesdainii, Lecanora farinaria, L. hybocarpa, L. paramerae, Lepraria cf. nivalis, Lecidea hypopta, Ochrolechia cf. androgyna, Protoparmelia ochrococca, R. subfarinacea var. salazinica, Schismatomma cretaceum, S. niveum and Usnea madeirensis) and six are reported for the first time from the Mediterranean region. In the light of this the European distribution of Lecanora farinaria, L. leuckertiana, Ochrolechia cf. androgyna, Protoparmelia ochrococca and R. subfarinacea var. salazinica is reviewed. Information on the distribution and ecology (e.g. phorophyte preference, altitudinal limits, nitrophily, photophily, hygrophily, commoness-rarity status) of each taxon is given; in many cases such information was poorly known, especially for the Mediterranean region. TLC analyses were carried out for many difficult genera, whose chemistry had been hitherto not investigated in material from Italy, and in some cases in the Mediterranean region (e.g. Lepraria s. lat., Ochrolechia). The lichen flora on Quercus in Sardinia appears to be very rich in comparison with those on oak reported from other European countries and Italian regions. 256 taxa were found on Q. ilex, 207 on Q. pubescens, 168 on Q. suber and 20 on Q. coccifera. The Lecanorales are the order represented by most species (69% of taxa); the Parmeliaceae (46 taxa), Physciaceae (44 taxa) and Lecanoraceae (36 taxa) are the families to follow. Only 10 species were found on all oak species, while 99 colonize Q. ilex, Q. pubescens and Q. suber, but not Q. coccifera. These lichens are mostly widespread temperate species with wide ecological amplitudes. 64 taxa were collected exclusively on Q. ilex, 30 on Q. pubescens, 27 on Q. suber and 3 on Q. coccifera. Most of the taxa grow on trunks (287), while the flora is much poorer on twigs (159 taxa). The "rare" component reaches 44% of the entire flora, showing its great importance for biodiversity. A phytogeographical analysis of the flora is also presented. The most common chorotypes in the entire lichen flora on oaks are the widespread temperate (33.8%), the suboceanic (32.9%) and the Mediterranean-Atlantic (8.8%). Quercus ilex hosts the highest percentage of suboceanic species (36.8%) and the lowest of widespread temperate species (32.4%). Q. pubescens hosts more temperate species (37.1%) and less suboceanic (31.7%). Q. suber has a high percentage of widespread temperate (46.4%) and only 28.9% of suboceanic species. Q. coccifera hosts 60% of the widespread temperate and only 15% of the suboceanic species. This indicates the more disturbed status of cork-oak stands and formations with kermes-oak. The Index of Microclimatic Dryness (IMD) (no. of widespread temperate species / no. of suboceanic species) is proposed for the first time and calculated for each plot. The index appears to be well correlated with the forest type: in well-preserved forests it shows a low value, while its value increases gradually in disturbed forest environments, from open woodland to pasture land. The percentage occurrence of the different photobionts in the lichen flora was studied. The most interesting results are the higher frequency of lichens with Trentepohlia along the coasts of north-western and western Sardinia, where the climate is most humid, and in well-preserved montane areas. Lichens with cyanobacteria are restricted to well-preserved forests and avoid pasture land and littoral vegetation. Lichens with green algae are the only ones present in disturbed habitats and xeric conditions. Crustose lichens are most common in the flora (51%), followed by broad-lobed species (16%). Fruticose-filamentose lichens and leprose lichens are the most sensitive to changes in environmental conditions, and are mostly restricted to forests with long ecological continuity. Only "saxicolous" Lepraria nivalis seems to be well adapted to disturbed conditions. Sorediate crutose lichens growing on trunks are in general more sensitive than lichens with other growth-form and reproductive strategy. Quercus suber hosts the highest percentage of very nitrophytic lichens (7.1%). The lowest percentage is found on Q. ilex (4.2%), while Q. pubescens has an intermediate value (5.4%). Q. suber and Q. coccifera, being most frequent in disturbed environments, host the highest percentages of moderately nitrophytic species (34.2% and 67.9% respectively). Indicator species of old-growth and of disturbed conditions are recognized in the flora. The RIEC (Revised Index of Ecological Continuity) is calculated for all examined forests. The highest values (100) were obtained for the forests of the Marghine-Goceano and for the southern part of the Gennargentu (65). A few localities have values of 10-40. The greatest part of the investigated forests have no species faithful to old-growth forest, thus showing the presence of high disturbance due to human activities (e.g. frequent fires, overgrazing). A hemeroby scale relative to oak forests in Sardinia based on the floristic and ecological studies of the present work, is proposed with seven degrees of hemeroby [H0 (absent) - H6 (high)]. The following parameters were taken into consideration: number of epiphytic lichen taxa/forest; RIEC value; Index of Microclimatic Dryness; number of species belonging to the Caliciales; percentage of nitrophytic species; indicator species. A hemeroby degree was attributed to the examined plots. The majority of the plots are included in the H4 degree. A cluster analysis was applied to absence/presence tables for releves carried out in different forest types of each oak species. From the analysis it appears that the lichen floras of forests at lower altitudes and of littoral forest are clearly distinct from those of inland and montane forests. Another distinction is due to the forest type, and the flora of well-preserved forest is usually separated from those of younger or more open woodland and pasture land. The cluster analysis applied to the species growing on trunks and present in the different examined plots shows clusters of nitrophytic species (Xanthorion), clusters of species typical of open and young woodland (communities with Parmelia, Pertusaria, Ochrolechia, Ramalina and Physconia species) and clusters of species typical of undisturbed forest (Lobarion communities and associations with Lepraria s.lat. species). Finally, problems related to the conservation of lichens are treated. 
10.2307/20358176|Flora and vegetation of the Canary Island of El Hierro have been investigated since 1997 by both authors. The floristic inventory of the island has been recorded by means of a grid mapping following the 11 km UTM grid. Both indigenous and introduced taxa were examined. The most important cultivated species were also mapped, particularly when they tend to escape into the wild. Beside the corresponding taxonomic literature, many experts were consulted for the identification of the numerous critical taxa. As a result, an annotated checklist of the vascular plants of El Hierro is presented, together with the distribution maps for c. 550 taxa. Information on endemism, floristic status, life form, record history, altitudinal preferences and selected literature is given. Critical aspects are discussed in the accompanying comments. The floristic information presented in this study supplements the results of the phytosociological research by the authors, which have already been published. Hence, a complete database on flora and vegetation of El Hierro has been established, which may serve as a basis for further scientific studies and conservation efforts.
24365187|Im Jahr 1820 gegrndet, gehrt der Botanische Garten der TU Dresden mit rund 3,5 ha Flche zu den kleineren in Deutschland. An den heutigen Standort wurde er Ende des 19. Jahrhunderts verlegt und erhielt dabei eine charakteristische Gliederung in eine systematische und eine pflanzengeographische Abteilung. Die Anlage der Pflanzengeographie folgt dabei der Lenn-Meyerschen Schule bzw. dem gemischten Gartenstil. Bei der Bombardierung Dresdens im Jahre 1945 wurde der Garten weitgehend zerstrt. Die historischen Gewchshuser gingen anschlieend durch Demontage verloren. Die Ersatzbauten seit den 1970er Jahren missachteten die historischen Bezge und verstellen z. T. die Sichtachsen innerhalb des Gartens bzw. zu Punkten im benachbarten Groen Garten. Die Aufgabe der Fremdnutzung eines Teils des Gartens (ca. 1,3 ha) ermglicht in den nchsten Jahren den Neubau der Gebudeinfrastruktur (Verwaltung und Gewchshuser) an bisher ungenutzter Stelle. Sie soll modernen Erfordernissen nach rationeller Arbeitsorganisation und effektivem Energieeinsatz gehorchen. Gleichzeitig knnen durch den Abri der Altbauten auf Basis eines architektonischen Konzeptes historische Bezge wieder hergestellt und dem Denkmalschutz Rechnung getragen werden. Established in 1820 and covering about 3.5 hectares, the Botanical Garden of the Dresden University of Technology is one of Germany's smaller botanical gardens. At the end of the 19th century the garden was relocated to its present site, where it was divided into a taxonomic and a phytogeographical section. The layout of the latter conformed to the Lenn-Meyer school or mixed garden style. During the Allied bombing of Dresden in 1945 the garden was almost completely destroyed. The historic conservatories were lost due to subsequent disassembly. The provisional buildings that replaced them in the 1970s disregarded historical associations and obstructed views of the garden and landmarks in the nearby park, known as the "Grosser Garten". Currently about 1.3 hectares of the original area are not at the disposal of the garden but will become available in the near future. Their reinstatement to the garden will create an opportunity to build a new infrastructure for the garden administration and new conservatories on formerly unused sites so as to meet the need for state-of-the-art organization and the efficient use of energy. At the same time the removal of the provisional buildings will facilitate the restoration of the historical associations based on a concept that takes both architectural and heritage considerations into account.
24365184|Die Unterscheidung von Sorten und Varietten ist relativ jungen Ursprungs. Bis ins 18. Jahrhundert gab es gar kaum infraspezifische Unterscheidungskriterien. Die infraspezifische Ebene der Variett wurde durch Linn 1753 definiert. Er verstand hierunter in Kultur entstandene Formen. Im 19. Jahrhundert kamen Streitigkeiten ber die Frage auf, ob Varietten in botanische Grten aufzunehmen seien. In dieser Zeit bemhte man sich vielfach um die Verbindung knstlerischer und wissenschaftlicher Prinzipien in der Gartenkunst, und zwar besonders in botanischen Grten. Grnde sind in einer gezielten ffentlichkeitsarbeit und in Volksbildungs-Bestrebungen zu sehen, die in Berlin Karl Koch formulierte. Nomenklatorisch wurde erst im 20. Jahrhundert die bis heutige Trennung von Varietten und Sorten vollzogen. Liberty Hyde Bailey schuf aus cultivated variety" den Begriff des Cultivars (Sorte) fr in der Kultur entstandene Varietten, whrend der Rang Variett (var.") den in der Natur entstandenen Varietten vorbehalten wurde. 1952 wurde auf Vorschlag von William T. Stearn die heutige Schreibweise der Sorten im Internationalen Code der Nomenklatur der Kulturpflanzen festgelegt. Eine Verbannung der Kulturpflanzen aus botanischen Grten mag aus Grnden der Arbeitsteilung und aus Platzgrnden geboten erscheinen. In lteren botanischen Grten, die auch unter denkmalpflegerischen Aspekten zu behandeln sind, ist es aber geboten, Ausnahmen von diesem Prinzip zuzulassen. A distinction between cultivars and varieties originated only late in the history of botany. Up to the 18th century, there had hardly arisen any criteria for infraspecific distinction. The infraspecific rank variety was introduced by Linnaeus in 1753. He defined variety as a taxon which had originated under cultivation. During the 19th century, a controversy arose as to whether varieties should be included in botanic gardens. Several scholars of 19th century endeavoured to unite artistic and scientific pinciples in garden design and especially in botanical gardens, as did, for example, Karl Koch in Berlin. Only in the 20th century was the actual distinction between varieties and cultivars confirmed. Liberty Hyde Bailey created from "cultivated variety" the portmanteau term cultivar, meaning a taxon that had originated in cultivation, whereas "var." was restricted now to varieties that had originated in nature. In 1952, a proposal by William T. Stearn was accepted, thereby establishing the actual spelling of cultivar names in the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants. A banishment of cultivated plants from botanical gardens may be reasonable because of division of labour or lack of space. In older botanical gardens, however, conservation aspects are appropriate, too, and exeptions from this rule should be allowed.
10.2307/20358185|The present flora treats the bryophytes of Socotra Island with keys to all species, descriptions including the main characters and notes on the occurrence of the species on the island. Illustrations are given for the endemics and most of the phytogeographically outstanding tropical species. The flora includes one hornwort, 31 liverworts and 48 mosses. Altogether, 80 species are known from Socotra. One species, Tortella inclinata, is recorded for the first time from Socotra. Additionally, a short overview of the bryofloristic exploration of Socotra Island, the phytochorial elements and a phytogeographical analysis of the bryoflora are given. Numerous pantropical, palaeotropical and Afromontane taxa are found at the monsoon-affected, often foggy higher altitudes of the Haghier Mts, indicating the strong floristic relationships between Socotra, S Africa and Asia. In contrast, the arid and semi-arid karstic limestone plateaus (Diksam, Hamadero, Ma'alah, Qatariyah) harbour drought-adapted and drought-tolerant taxa of mainly xerothermic-Pangaean and circum-Tethyan origin that are widely distributed on the Arabian Peninsula.
24365182|Bedeutende Gartentheoretiker wie Jger, Migge oder Lichtwark haben botanische Grten in sthetischer Hinsicht herbe kritisiert oder ihnen sogar jede gartenknstlerische Aufgabe abgesprochen. In botanischen Grten selbst wurde die sthetik vielfach lediglich als Zugestndnis an das Publikum betrachtet. Das grundlegende gestalterischen Problem botanische Grten drfte darin liegen, die Diversitt der Pflanzenwelt zu entfalten und dafr eine berzeugende Darstellung zu finden. Das Spannungsfeld sthetik  Systematik  Nutzen soll anhand der Geschichte der sogenannten Systeme in botanischen Grten deutlich gemacht werden sowie an jngeren Beispielen aus Hamburg. Dabei steht das Wirken des Gartenleiters und Gartengestalters Johannes Apel (19171997) im Vordergrund. In the past, leading garden theorists like Jger, Migge or Lichtwark have severely criticized botanical gardens for aesthetical reasons and even denied that they possess any obligation for garden art. On the other hand, many botanical gardens have regarded aesthetics merely as a concession to the general public and not as a fundamental task. The basic design problem of botanical gardens seems to be the demonstration of plant diversity and to find convincing solutions for it. Aesthetics vs. taxonomy vs. use may form an area of conflict in botanical gardens. This topic is explored with a focus on the history of the systematic arrangements of plants in botanical gardens and on more recent examples from Hamburg, with a focus on the works of Johannes Apel (19171997), chief gardener and garden designer, who shaped the botanical gardens at Hamburg.
10.2307/3776755| The first taxonomic revision of the entire genus Launaea, which is chiefly distributed in Africa and SW Asia, is provided. 54 species with 10 subspecies, grouped in eight sections, are recognized. Three sections, i.e. L. sect. Castanospermae, Cervicornes, and Cornutae, seven species, i.e. L. almahrahensis, L. amal-aminae, L. angolensis, L. lackii, L. omanensis, L. quettansis, and L. socotrana, as well as one subspecies, L. fragilis subsp. asirensis, are described as new to science, and the combinations L. acanthodes subsp. tomentella, L. cabrae, L. cabrae subsp. nanella, L. petitiana, L. polydichotoma, and L. pseudoabyssinica are formed as names new to science. General parts deal with the history, distribution, taxonomic position and delimitation of the genus, as well as with its morphology (including pericarp anatomy). Illustrations, keys to all taxa recognized, full synonymies, references to further illustrations, descriptions, chromosome numbers, data on the ecogeography including geographical distribution maps, lists of the specimens studied, and data on the use of the species are provided. The chromosome numbers of L. benadirensis (2n = 16) and L. petitiana (2n = 18, 36, 54) are reported for the first time, the latter being the first report of a hexaploid cytotype for the genus. A new chromosome number for L. cornuta (2n = 10) is reported, prolonging the series of consecutive basic numbers known in the genus from x = 9 down to x = 5. Indexes to the scientific names referring to the genus, to the geographical distribution of the species, and to the revised collections are provided. 
10.2307/3776757|A comparative morphological study of the subtribe Carduinae, tribe Cardueae, Compositae, on genus level was performed in order to reconstruct intergeneric relationships in a cladistic analysis. The Carduinae, which are the largest subtribe of the Cardueae, comprise about 1600 species, many of which are known as thistles and have ecological and economic significance, especially as weeds. The recognition of monophyletic groups within the Carduinae and the relationship between the Carduinae and the closely related subtribe Centaureinae are important aims of the present study. 52 characters, which are phylogenetically informative on the respective taxonomic level, are identified, corresponding to 66 character state transitions. Several new characters are described. Among the most important are the relative length, structure and symmetry of the pappus bristles, the shape and distribution of sclerenchyma elements in the pericarp, the wall reinforcements in the testa epidermis cells, and the shape of the cell walls in the dorsal corolla lobe epidermis. Ontogenetic studies in the achenes have helped to clarify the nature of structures such as the pappus base or the cupula of the Jurinea pappus. Cladistic analysis of 37 ingroup and three outgroup taxa using the program PAUP yields 48 most parsimonious trees. The results support the monophyly of the Carduinae+Centaureinae (= Cardueae s. str.). Berardia, which has been regarded as a genus of uncertain affinities, is morphologically closest to the hypothetical common ancestor of the Carduinae+Centaureinae in the cladogram. Within the ingroup consisting of Carduinae+Centaureinae, several well-supported groups of genera could be identified: the Centaureinae, the Cousinia group, the Jurinea group, the Saussurea group, and the Carduus-Cirsium group. The smaller genera Lamyropsis, Ptilostemon and Cynara form a predominantly Mediterranean complex together with the Carduus-Cirsium group, in which they probably represent early evolutionary lines. The basal relationships within the ingroup are characterised by a dichotomy which divides the ingroup into two large sister clades. This early split does not correspond to the Carduinae-Centaureinae subdivision. The Carduinae are paraphyletic. The sister group of the Centaureinae contains the large Carduinae complexes around the genera Cousinia, Jurinea and Saussurea, which are mentioned above. The Centaureinae and their sister group are united by morphological synapomorphies such as short outer pappus bristles, a rugose pericarp and undulate cell walls in the dorsal corolla lobe epidermis. The other large clade produced by the basal dichotomy contains the aforementioned Mediterranean complex as a derived group and the genera Onopordum, Synurus, Alfredia, Olgaea, Xanthopappus, Ancathia and Lamyropappus in a basal paraphyletic grade. The members of this basal grade are characterised by several plesiomorphic features. A plesiomorphic condition for the Carduinae+Centaureinae in general is postulated on the basis of the present results. It manifests itself among others in a straw-coloured fragile pappus, flattened pappus bristles which are scabrous on the dorsal side, the presence of a carpopodium, a strong testa epidermis consisting of radially elongated cells, papillose stamen filaments, an irregular number of main vascular bundles in the pericarp and an alveolate receptacle. Many of these features are present in the genera of the basal grade. Their relictual nature as concluded from their mostly small species numbers and their isolated distribution areas confirms the view that these genera are probably among the oldest in the Carduinae. Several evolutionary trends within the Carduinae have been pointed out by putting the resulting cladogram into a geographical, ecological and cytological context: 1. Two main centres of diversification are assumed: (1) a Mediterranean-SW Asian centre, in which the Carduus-Cirsium group is most diverse, and (2) a Central Asian-Hi-malayan centre, in which the basal Centaureinae genera Serratula and Stemmacantha as well as the genera in the sister group of the Centaureinae have evolved. It is concluded that the large subtribe Centaureinae with its almost world-wide distribution has originated in Central Asia. 2. The genera in the Central Asian clade occur predominantly in subalpine and alpine habitats, whereas in the Mediterranean complex, a wider ecological range can be observed. 3. Genera which are mainly restricted to mountain areas show no apparent adaptations to long-distance dispersal of the achenes. This trend is interpreted as a minimization of risk by concentrating the reproductive effort in maintaining the growth site in adverse environments. Structures which preclude long-distance dispersal of achenes are e.g. a fragile pappus or length reduction of pappus bristles. Some widespread groups among the Carduinae have developed efficient mechanisms for long-distance dispersal: among the most important are wind dispersal through a plumose pappus, myrmecochory through elaiosomes and epizoochory through sticking to animals by a viscous pericarp or by capitula with hooked involucral bracts. 4. The ancestral chromosome number within the Carduinae is possibly n = 18, which can be reduced to a base chromosome number of 9. The chromosome numbers n = 17 and n = 13, which are most common in the Carduinae, have probably arisen by aneuploid reductions from n = 18. The systematic recommendations which are drawn from the present analysis mainly concern the status of small genera. Some genera are easily attributable to larger groups. It is suggested that these genera should be critically addressed in future taxonomic treatments. The retention of the genus status of some isolated relictual genera such as Ancathia and Lamyropappus (formerly included in Cirsium), Alfredia and Olgaea (sometimes included in Carduus) and Dolomiaea (sometimes included in Jurinea) is recommended.
10.2307/3776772|A revision of the genus Amorphophallus in Africa, including Madagascar, is presented. A total of 35 species and seven subspecies are distinguished, all of them are described and illustrated; in addition keys and distribution maps are provided as well as notes on habitat and ecology.
10.2307/3776750|The genus Pluchea (Compositae, Plucheeae) comprises 45 species distributed world wide in tropical and subtropical regions. This revision is focused on the species in the Old World and covers aspects of their taxonomic history, morphology, distribution, habitats, uses and infrageneric relationships. In addition, the delimitation of related genera is discussed. On the basis of detailed morphological studies all species are fully described. Illustrations, achene cross sections, chromosome numbers, distribution maps and a key to all investigated species are presented. 29 species are accepted, which are distributed in Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, South East Asia and Australia. For one of the species excluded from the genus the new combination Blumea hirsuta is validated. Two other species, P. incisa from the Philippines and P. polygonata from Indochina hold an uncertain taxonomic position and are probably also to be excluded from the genus. Phylogenetic relationships in the genus were analysed using morphological data. The data matrix comprises 28 ingroup taxa and 28 characters. A cladistic analysis was conducted using the computer program PAUP. Characters were polarized using the method of outgroup comparison. The results support five tentative species groups within the genus.
10.2307/3776777|Three sections of Astragalus, i.e. A. sect. Adiaspastus, sect. Macrophyllium and sect. Pterophorus are revised. The circumscription of the sections is modified to make them natural. However, they are not sharply delimited, because there are some intermediate species between these three sections and A. sect. Rhacophorus, the largest section of tragacanthic astragali with almost 100 species. A. sect. Acidodes, whose systematic position was very controversial, is reduced to synonymy of sect. Adiaspastus, because of the close affinity of the two lectotypes. Since the monotypic A. sect. Brachycalyx has close allies within sect. Adiaspastus, and since there are no important features for separating it from the latter, it is also reduced to synonymy. On the basis of some important trends, an informal grouping is undertaken for A. sect. Adiaspastus. The A. sahendi group, which was treated as belonging to A. sect. Acanthophace in the most recent literature, is transferred to A. sect. Adiaspastus as a consequence of important differences in hair micromorphology. The species of the A. cerasocrenus group, which occur in the Kopet Dagh mountain range and in Afghanistan, are transferred to A. sect. Rhacophorus because of certain apomorphies in calyx structure, standard shape, etc. The presence of two persisting bracteoles resembling the calyx teeth, is the only feature separating A. sect. Pterophorus from sect. Rhacophorus. The species of this section do not occur east of Central Anatolia. The exact systematic position of A. sect. Pterophorus and its possible identity with sect. Rhacophorus is still to be examined. A. (sect. Pterophorus) condensatus is one of the most variable species within thorny Astragalus. A. sect. Macrophyllium seems to be a natural group characterized by a sturdy habit and usually glabrous leaves. A. glabrifolius is the only species within this section which possesses a firm calyx, a character connecting this species to A. sect. Adiaspastus. It is found in Afghanistan and shows the only disjunction in the distribution of A. sect. Macrophyllium. A. oleaefolius is the most widespread species within the section and shows a considerable variation. A cladistic analysis including almost all sections of thorny Astragalus is performed, using mainly morphological characters. These are the most important results: 1. Tragacanthic astragali are monophyletic, but separating them from Astragalus makes the latter paraphyletic. 2. Except for A. sect. Adiaspastus, all sections of tragacanthic Astragalus show an unresolved branching pattern, a result of high homoplasy exhibited by morphological characters. 3. Maintaining the monotypic A. sect. Diacme and sect. Polystegis is supported. The systematically isolated A. psilodontius should be assigned to a section of its own. 4. A. sect. Megalocystis, in the present form, is polyphyletic. Transferring some species from this section to sect. Microphysa and keeping the monotypic A. sect. Eriostoma make it monophyletic. 5. A. sect. Tricholobus is to be included in A. sect. Campylanthus, otherwise the latter is paraphyletic. 6. A. sect. Poterion is not closely related to other sections of Bunge's subgenus Calycophysa. Based on a cladistic analysis the patterns of homoplasy are discussed. Many characters, e.g. flower size, considered earlier to be very important in distinguishing natural groups, show a very homoplastic nature, which disapproves the classifications based on them. Distribution maps, keys to the species, descriptions and synonymies are provided. Most of the names are typified. A diagnostic key to all sections of thorny Astragalus is also given.
3776766|The life and work of Otto Warburg is studied and set into the context of his time. In addition, his role in founding natural science institutions in Palestine is elucidated. Born in Hamburg, Warburg graduated from Strasburg University and travelled from 1885 to 1889 in Southeast Asia bringing back a considerable collection of plant specimens later donated to the Royal Botanical Museum in Berlin. He published extensively on this expedition, notably on the plants of economic importance and subsequently became associated with Adolf Engler, contributing e.g. the account of "Pandanaceae" to the series Das Pflanzenreich. Based permanently in Berlin Warburg's interests shifted gradually to economic plants, in particular those of relevance for the colonies of the Deutsches Reich. He founded and edited the journal "Der Tropenpflanzer" and became deeply involved in colonial affairs arguing for a scientific approach in developing tropical agriculture. Through marriage Warburg had come into contact with Zionism and corresponded with e.g. Theodor Herzl. Soon he became a key figure of the so-called practical Zionism aiming at the support of settlers in Palestine, which effectively meant helping them to develop agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry. In 1911 Warburg was elected president of the World Zionist Congress and remained in office until 1920. After the Deutsches Reich had lost its colonies and after the headquarters of Zionism had moved to England, Warburg devoted his activities more and more to establishing research institutions in Palestine. He became founding director of the Agricultural Experimental Station in Tel Aviv, which later developed into the Institute of Agriculture and Natural History, part of which subsequently integrated into the Faculty of Science of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. Warburg was an important figure in university politics, in particular as mediator in the Magnes-Einstein controversy. He was also the founder of the botanical garden of the Hebrew University on Mt Scopus. Retired from his position in Jerusalem Warburg died in Berlin in early 1938. A comprehensive list of Warburg's publications is included as well as those by two of his close collaborators, i.e. Aaron Aaronsohn who had rediscovered "Triticum dicoccoides" in Palestine and Alexander Eig. In an appendix the biographies of the founding generation of natural scientists in "Erez Israel" are added.
24368335|Based on collection activities over the past 25 years, a revision of literature, and unpublished materials, an annotated checklist of trees and arborescent species found in and reported from El Salvador, Central America is presented. This is the second of three volumes covering 29 angiosperm plant families (Magnoliaceae to Punicaceae, and Achatocarpaceae) and 3 families of ferns. A total of 289 species and 24 subspecies and varieties are recognised, representing 291 taxa at the most basic rank, of which 205 are native in El Salvador. The checklist includes the correct names, their synonyms as far as they have been in use for Salvadorian taxa, the basionyms, and nomenclatural details for all names cited. Additional data for each taxon include vernacular names, data on local and global distribution, selected information on (potential) utilisation, as well as detailed literature references from works directly referring to the flora of El Salvador as well as a selection of relevant Central American floras. A total of 1682 herbarium collections are cited in this volume, of which 1426 specimens are located  and have been revised  at LAGU and/or B. The introduction provides a summary of collection activities related to the Jardn Botnico La Laguna as well as an introduction to taxonomic inventories in El Salvador.
10.2307/20358183|12 species, Arthropteris orientalis, Chamaecrista pumila, Cordia crenata, Cosentinia vellea, Dryopteris schimperiana, Eragrostis tenuifolia, Galinsoga parviflora, Lagenantha cf. cycloptera, Olea capensis, Polystichum fuscopaleaceum, Rhus natalensis and R. cf. tenui-nervis, are reported as new for the island. Five of these also represent new generic records, i.e. Arthropteris, Cosentinia, Dryopteris, Olea and Polystichum. Volutaria socotrensis is described, by G. Wagenitz, as a species and Euphorbia socotrana subsp. purpurea as a subspecies new to science and illustrated. Recent records from the island of 13 species hitherto only known from late 19th century records and significant new locality records of 32 rare or undercollected taxa are provided.
10.2307/20358186|A phytosociological analysis of the rocky upper Haghier Mts on Socotra Island for the first time revealed a saxicolous bryophyte community, the Grimmietum commutato-campestris grimmietosum affinis. On Socotra, it is represented by an endemic development (geographical race), dominated by the endemic Schlotheimia balfourii, typical for sun-exposed, acidic rocks that underly a strong desiccation. Life form and life strategy analyses show that xero-tolerant cushion species, short turf-forming 'generative' perennial shuttle species, perennial stayers and 'pauciennial' colonists prevail, thus clearly indicating harsh and xeric site conditions.
24365186|Der Botanische Garten Montreal wurde 1931 von dem Ordensgeistlichen Marie-Victorin (18851944) auf Beschluss des Exekutivkomitees der Stadt Montreal angelegt. Bruder Marie-Victorin hat den Garten zwar gegrndet, war sich jedoch bewusst, dass seine Kenntnisse fr dessen Ausgestaltung nicht reichen wrden. Man empfahl ihm Henry Teuscher (18911984), der damals als Dendrologe am Botanischen Garten New York beschftigt war. Vor seiner Anstellung als first Superintendent" des Botanischen Gartens Montreal verffentlichte er in der Zeitschrift Parks and Recreation einen Artikel mit dem Titel Der botanische Garten der Zukunft". Diese Schrift wurde zum Masterplan fr den botanischen Garten mit dem ersten Spatenstich 1936 und in den folgenden Jahren. Teuscher und Marie-Victorin hatten eine gemeinsame Vision: Ein moderner botanischer Garten sollte sich von normalen Grten durch Schnheit, Struktur und Ntzlichkeit unterscheiden. Teuscher war der Meinung, dass ein botanischer Garten vor allem eine Bildungseinrichtung sein muss, dessen sthetik Besucher neugierig macht und ihr Interesse an der Wissenschaft weckt. Von Anbeginn hat sich der Botanische Garten Montreal entsprechend den von Teuscher aufgestellten Prinzipien entwickelt. Heute, etwa 80 Jahre spter, hat Montreal einen der schnsten und grten botanischen Grten der Welt, der mit 22.000 Taxa und etwa 30 Themengrten jedes Jahr 1 Million Besucher anzieht. The Montreal Botanical Garden was founded by Brother Marie-Victorin (18851944) in 1931, following a City of Montreal Executive Committee resolution. Although Marie-Victorin was the garden's founder, he knew that he was not qualified to be its designer. It was recommended to him to enlist Henry Teuscher (18911984) who was working at the time as a dendrologist at the New York Botanical Garden. Before he was hired as the Montreal Botanical Garden's first superintendent, he published an article in the Parks and Recreation magazine entitled "The Botanical Garden of the Future." This would become the master plan for the Botanical Garden when construction started in 1936 and for all the years thereafter. Teuscher and Marie-Victorin shared a specific vision in which a modern Botanical Garden would be differentiated from ordinary gardens in terms of its beauty, organization and utility. Teuscher felt that a Botanical Garden must be an educational institution, above all, in which the aesthetic side would appeal to visitors' curiosity and awaken their interest in the sciences. Ever since, the Montreal Botanical Garden has been developed according to the principles laid out by Teuscher. Today, c. 80 years later, the Montreal Botanical Garden is one of the world's finest and largest, with its 22 000 taxa, some thirty thematic gardens and one million visitors every year.
24365185|Die Breslauer Anlage ist der zweitlteste botanische Garten Polens. Im Jahr 1974 wurde sie in die Liste der Kulturdenkmler Niederschlesiens eingetragen. Seit 1994 ist sie ein Teil der historischen Stadtmitte Breslaus, die unter besonderem Denkmalschutz steht. Der Garten entstand 1811 auf einer 5 ha groen, der Universitt von Friedrich Wilhelm III., Knig von Preuen, geschenkten Parzelle. Er wurde von hervorragenden Professoren fr Botanik geleitet, u. a. H. F. Link, L. Ch. Treviranus, Ch. G. Nees von Esenbeck, dem ersten deutschen Palobotaniker H. R. Gppert, sowie den Systematikern und Pflanzengeographen A. Engler und F. Pax. Gegen Ende des Zweiten Weltkrieges wurde der Garten stark zerstrt. Der Wiederaufbau begann 1948/49. In den nchsten Jahren wurde das Gelnde bis auf 7,4 ha erweitert, es entstanden neue Reviere: fr Morphologie und kologie der Pflanzen, Freilandzierpflanzen, Wasser- und Sumpfpflanzen, Kletterpflanzen, eine reiche Sammlung von Efeu-Arten und -sorten, sowie die palontologische Dauerausstellung Panorama der Natur". Im Jahr 1988, dank von Prof. T. Nowak wurde das seit dem 19. Jahrhundert bestehende, 6 ha groe Arboretum in Wojsawice/Woislowitz bei Nimptsch, eine Schpfung von Fritz von Oheimb, dem Garten als Auenstelle angeschlossen. Heute nimmt es eine Flche von ca. 65 ha ein und besitzt die grten Sammlungen von Rhododendron- und Hemerocallis-Arten und -sorten in Polen, sowie viele seltene Gehlze, besonders Nadelbume. The Botanical Garden in Wrocaw is the second oldest among the botanical gardens in Poland. In 1974 it was listed in the monument register of Lower Silesia and from 1994 it has been included within the borders of Wrocaw's specially protected historical city centre. The garden was founded in 1811 on a 5 ha plot of land donated to the university by Friedrich Wilhelm III, King of Prussia. It was managed by outstanding professors of botany, among them H. F. Link, L. Ch. Treviranus, Ch. G. Nees von Esenbeck, the first German paleobotanist H. R. Gppert, later by the systematists and plant geographers A. Engler and F. Pax. At the end of the Second World War the garden was substantially damaged. The reconstruction started in 1948/49. In the following years the garden's area was enlarged to 7.4 ha and new sections were added, dedicated to plant morphology and biology, outdoor ornamental plants, aquatic plants, climbing plants, a rich collection of species and cultivars of the genus Hedera, and a paleontological exhibition "Panorama of Nature". In 1988, thanks to the efforts of Prof. T. J. Nowak, an arboretum comprising 6 ha in Wojslawice near Niemcza, founded by F. von Oheimb in the 19th century, became a satellite garden. Today it covers an area of 65 ha and contains the biggest collections of Rhododendron and Hemerocallis species and cultivars in Poland, as well as many rare woody species, especially conifers.
24365190|Der Beitrag stellt Anlass, Ziele und bisherige Ergebnisse eines Gartenpflegewerks fr den Botanischen Garten Berlin-Dahlem vor, das 2006 vom Landesdenkmalamt Berlin, Referat Gartendenkmalpflege in Auftrag gegeben wurde und inzwischen abgeschlossen ist. This article presents the occasion, aims and current results of a preservation and management plan for the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem, which was commissioned by the Historic Gardens Conservation Unit of the Berlin Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission in 2006 and has now been completed.
24365183|Gegenwrtig wird davon ausgegangen, dass etwa ein Drittel aller Pflanzen, das sind etwa 100.000 Arten, vom Aussterben bedroht sind, wobei sich diese Zahl aufgrund der Auswirkungen des Klimawandels erhhen drfte. Die botanischen Grten der Welt spielen bei der Erhaltung der Artenvielfalt eine wichtige Rolle, da sie ber Ex-situ-Sammlungen verfgen, Programme zur Wiederansiedlung und Wiederherstellung untersttzen sowie Wissen vermitteln und das ffentliche Bewusstsein frdern. Die Globale Strategie zur Erhaltung der Pflanzen (Global Strategy for Plant Conservation, GSPC) bietet einen Rahmen fr Aktivitten auf globaler und lokaler Ebene und ist von vielen botanischen Grten bernommen worden. Die GSPC umfasst 16 Ziele, die bis 2010 erreicht werden sollen; Fortschritte bei ihrer Umsetzung wurden 2008 in einer Tiefenprfung untersucht. Dabei wurden die einzelnen Schritte recht unterschiedlich bewertet, insgesamt aber gilt die Strategie als Erfolg. Nunmehr werden Plne ausgearbeitet, wie die Strategie ber 2010 hinaus zu aktualisieren und fortzufhren ist, wobei insbesondere die Auswirkungen des Klimawandels untersucht werden sollen. Der Beitrag stellt weitere Einzelheiten der Umsetzung konkreter Ziele der GSPC und die den botanischen Grten dabei zukommende Rolle vor. It is thought that around one third of all plants, some 100000 species, are currently threatened with extinction, and this figure is likely to increase due to the impacts of climate change. The world's botanic gardens have a major role to play in conserving plant diversity, through their ex situ collections and their support for reintroduction and restoration programmes, as well as through their education and public awareness programmes. The Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) provides a framework for action at both global and local levels, and has been widely adopted by the botanic garden community. The GSPC includes 16 targets to be achieved by 2010 and progress towards these was assessed during an in-depth review in 2008. The review reported variable progress, but it is believed that the Strategy overall has been a success. Plans are now underway to update the strategy beyond 2010, with particular reference to the impacts of climate change. This paper provides more details of the progress towards specific targets of the GSPC and the role of botanic gardens in achieving these targets.
10.2307/3776769| An annotated enumeration of vascular plants from the valleys and slopes of Nanga Parbat, West Himalaya is presented. 962 native or naturalised species (and 9 additional subspecies) as well as 3 hybrids are recorded. In addition, 106 species are recorded as doubtful; the occurrence of 32 cultivated taxa is documented. All this information is based on field observations, herbarium material, a critical evaluation of literature records and on hitherto unpublished floristic data from C. Troll's 1937 expedition. The enumeration includes synonyms, vernacular and English names, data on local, altitudinal and general distribution, ecology, life-form, as well as information on status and (potential) utilisation. Phytogeographically, the flora of Nanga Parbat is predominantly West Himalayan (26.8%), with (Sino-) Himalayan elements comprising further 12.5%. In accordance with the peripheral location on the extreme north-west edge of the Himalayas the Nanga Parbat flora is characterised by high proportions of Central Asian (8.6%), Irano-Turanian (8.8%) and Pamirean (7.9%) elements, whereas Tibetan elements (1.9%) are poorly represented. Within the flora of the Himalayas Nanga Parbat is a stronghold of Eurasiatic (Euro Siberian, 13.2%) and circumpolar elements (7.6%). Considering the high amount of relief and climatic diversity endemics are not especially well represented and total c. 6.5%. Cosmopolitan (2.0%), subtropical (2.6%), and Mediterranean elements (1.6%) form minor floristic components. Steep orographical and climatic-ecological gradients correspond with a high degree of altitudinal variation and form a prominent feature of the flora and vegetation. Vegetation belts and formations on Nanga Parbat range from the dry-subtropical valley bottom deserts of the Indus Valley (colline belt: 1100-2000 m), through steppes and forest (submontane: 2000-2700 m, montane: 2700-3400 m), to the tree-line, scrub, dwarf-scrub, turf, and finally open scree and rock (subalpine 3400-3900 m, alpine 3900-4500 m, subnival 4500-5300 m) on the upper edge of the phanerogamic vegetation. Floristic data are presented and problems of biodiversity and chorology are discussed. Strong altitudinal differentiation with a pronounced maximum diversity at an altitude of about 2500-3800 m was observed. Patterns of distribution and diversity are discussed mainly in the context of geo-ecological constraints. A marked irregularity of diversity at about 2300 m seems to be related to relief features and climatic factors. The rather short-termed and limited research project revealed no clear signs of change in the species inventory due to recent human interference. The annotated enumeration of vascular plants presented here may serve as basis for subsequent investigations into the dynamics of the flora. However, repeat photography revealed environmental changes during the past 60 years. The increasing human impact on the natural resource basis and possible future perspectives are also discussed. /// Eine kommentierte Liste der Gefpflanzen des Nanga Parbat im nordwestlichen Himalaya wird vorgelegt. Auf der Grundlage eigener Feldarbeiten, von Herbarmaterial, und gesttzt auf eine kritische Auswertung der Literatur und der bislang unpublizierten floristischen Ergebnisse der Expedition von C. Troll im Jahre 1937, werden 962 einheimische oder eingebrgerte Arten (mit neun zustzlichen Unterarten), 3 Hybriden und 32 kultivierte Sippen fr das Gebiet nachgewiesen. Bei 106 weiteren Sippen bestehen Zweifel ber ihr Vorkommen bzw. ber ihren Status. Fr alle Taxa werden Synonyme, indigene und englische Pflanzennamen, Lokal-, Hhen- und Gesamtverbreitung, kologie, Lebensform, Status und Nutzungspotential angegeben. Phytogeographisch ist die Flora des Nanga Parbat eindeutig durch west-himalayische Elemente (26,8%) geprgt, (sino-)himalayische Elemente umfassen weitere 12.5%. Die periphere Lage am uersten nordwestlichen Rand des Himalaya bedingt hohe Anteile zentralasiatischer (8,9%), irano-turanischer (8,8%) und pamirischer Elemente (7,9%), whrend tibetische Elemente (1,9%) zurcktreten. Eurasiatische (euro-sibirische, 13,2%) und zirkumpolare Elemente (7,6%) sind demgegenber fr die Verhltnisse Hochasiens gut reprsentiert. Trotz der hohen Reliefenergie und der daraus resultierenden Diversitt kologischer Nischen sind Endemiten nur schwach vertreten (ca. 6,5%). Kosmopoliten (2,0%), subtropische (2,6%) und mediterrane Elemente (1,6%) bilden geringe Anteile an der Flora des Nanga Parbat. Entsprechend steiler Hangneigungen und starker klimatisch-kologischer Gradienten ist eine deutliche Hhenzonierung der Flora und Vegetation charakteristisch. Vegetationszonen und -formationen reichen von trocken-subtropischen Wsten des Indus-Talbodens (colline Stufe 1100-2000 m) ber Steppen- und Waldformationen (submontan: 2000-2700 m, montan: 2700-3400 m) bis zu den oberen Waldgrenzbereichen, Gebschen, Zwerggestruchen, Matten, offenen Schutt- und Felshngen (subalpin 3400-3900 m, alpin 3900-4500 m, subnival 4500-5300 m) an der oberen Grenze der Gefpflanzen-Vorkommen. Die Ergebnisse quantifizieren die altitudinalen Aspekte der Artendiversitt, die bei 2500-3800 m Meereshhe ein ausgeprgtes Maximum erreicht. Verbreitungs- und Diversittsmuster werden im Zusammenhang mit den landschaftskologischen Bedingungen diskutiert. Ein deutlicher Sprung in der Artendiversitt bei ca. 2300 m Meereshhe scheint mit Relief- und Klimabedingungen korreliert. Aufgrund der relativ kurzen Bearbeitungsdauer ergibt das floristische Material keine erkennbaren Hinweise auf rezente anthropogene Vernderungen. Die vorliegende Datenbasis kann jedoch als Grundlage fr knftige Untersuchungen ber die Florendynamik dienen. Fotovergleiche dokumentieren aber bereits deutliche Umweltvernderungen whrend des kurzen Zeitraums der letzten 60 Jahre. In diesem Zusammenhang werden der steigende anthropogene Einflu auf die natrlichen Ressourcen und mgliche Zukunftsperspektiven diskutiert. 
24365189|Die sterreichischen Bundesgrten und ihre Pflanzensammlungen positionieren sich in der Gartendenkmalpflege und der grtnerischen Handwerkskunst im Artenschutz, in der ffentlichkeit und mit ihrer wirtschaftlichen Bedeutung. The Austrian Federal Gardens and their plant collections possess a special position due to their role in the maintenance of garden monuments, in garden art, in the public awarness, and as economic entities.
10.2307/20358182|Based on field studies by the authors in March-April 2002 and March 2003, the altitudinal zonation of the woodland and forest vegetation in the moister northern part of Socotra Island is described and analysed. The phytosociological surveys along an altitudinal transect in the Haghier Mts from the coastal plain to the summit areas supplemented by surveys on the escarpments of the Hamadero and Ma'alah Plateau revealed a major divide between (semi)deciduous lowland and low montane communities (below c. 750 m) on the one hand and high montane communities at altitudes predominantly between c. 850 and 1500 m on the other hand. Differing in their substrates, climatic situation, floristic affinities and physiognomy, the communities of these two altitudinal ranges are classified in two different alliances, the low montane Crotonion socotrani and the high montane Crotonion sulcifructi all. nov., which can both be included in the new order Acridocarpo socotrani-Crotonetalia socotrani. Within the Crotonion socotrani the typical association (Crotonetum socotrani), usually heavily degraded, dominates the coastal plains and lower foothills, followed by an altitudinal form of which two associations can be distinguished. The slopes above the foothills are covered by forests with emergent Sterculia africana var. socotrana (Adenio sokotrani-Sterculietum socotranae ass. nov.), then above 500 m by a colourful forest with Boswellia ameero (Ruellio insignis-Boswellietum ameero ass. nov.). The high montane Crotonion sulcifructi includes a more widespread association, the Trichodesmo scottii-Cephalocrotonetum socotrani ass. nov., and an association particularly rich in epiphytic bryophytes, the Leucado hagghierensis-Pittosporetum viridiflorum ass. nov., which is restricted to the moistest sites.
10.2307/3776780|Dactylanthus taylorii (Balanophoraceae) is a root-holoparasitic flowering plant endemic to New Zealand. The development and anatomy of its female flower and derivates, germination, vegetative reproduction, the morphology and function of infectious roots, and the genetic diversity of populations are investigated. Other notes include history of research on the species, its general habit, systematic position, distribution, human use, and a brief description of the male flower. The female flower is comprised largely of a single ovary, and is characterised by a central pistil-like structure in which two embryo sacs develop. Various interpretations of this structure in the literature are discussed, and it is concluded that it is homologous to one or several nucelli, and may include also non-nucellate tissue. In the absence of integuments an orthodox terminology of ovule type is not regarded as useful. It is argued that the frequently cited development of the 'micropylar' megaspore into an embryo sac in Balanophoraceae is based on a misinterpretation of the orientation of the ovarian structures, and that all taxa studied so far follow in their development the common Allium or Polygonum type. The development of the endosperm and the morphology of the embryo in D. taylorii are investigated for the first time. Germination of the fruits and their attachment to a host root are described in detail, and results of three, only partially successful germination experiments are given. Seeds of D. taylorii are able to germinate in the absence of any host, and germinated seeds survive for a prolonged period of time in the soil. Vegetative reproduction through specialised infectious roots formed at the base of inflorescences is confirmed. Infectious roots and radicles are identical in morphology, and are characterised by hair cells with micro-papillate, bulbous bases. The ultrastructure of the micro-papillae is examined, and their possible function discussed. Both radicles and infectious roots show a tropic reaction to the presence of a possible host, but this reaction is not limited to host roots alone and is seen as rather unspecific. A hypothesis is put forward for the germination strategy in D. taylorii. The use of random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) for the investigation of genetic diversity in the endangered D. taylorii is evaluated, and the suitability of the technique confirmed. Preliminary results using samples from three populations show a distinctness even of neighbouring populations. The occurrence of monoecy is not supported by genetic analysis, rather, tubers that bear inflorescences of different sex are seen as consisting of several individuals growing closely together (chimaeras). Implications of these findings for the conservation of species are discussed.
24365179|Was ein Garten ist, wie der Transfer von Pflanzen vom natrlichen Standort in einen Garten funktioniert, wie Kultivare und Raritten ausgewhlt werden, schildert dieser Beitrag. Er erlutert gleichzeitig auch das Konzept einer pflanzengeographischen Anlage am Beispiel des Botanischen Gartens Berlin-Dahlem. An attempt is made to elucidate the philosophy of a garden, to show how plants are transferred from natural stands into a garden, and to describe how cultivars and rarities are selected. At the same time the concept of a garden laid out according to the principles of plant geography is explained using the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem as an example.
24365180|Der Verfasser beschftigt sich mit ICOM, der wissenschaftlichen Museologie der Strnsk-Schule und botanischen Grten. Da ICOM und die wissenschaftliche Museologie botanische Grten und Zoos als Museen betrachten, geht er auf diese Basisannahmen ein und diskutiert die Ablehnung der von UNESCO/ICOM verwendeten Begriffe kulturelles und natrliches Erbe und des vom Denkmalschutz verwendeten Begriffs Denkmal durch die Strnsk-Schule. Der politische Wert dieser Begriffe wird zwar anerkannt, nicht aber ihr wissenschaftlicher. Der Autor geht auf das spezifische Erkenntnisobjekt der Museologie ein, seine Geschichte, Verbreitung und Aufgliederung. Im letzten Teil versucht der Verfasser, botanische Grten mit museologischer Brille zu betrachten. The author discusses the philosophies of ICOM, museology and botanical gardens. He uses the broad concept of scientific museology based on its nestor Z. Z. Strnsk. Since ICOM and museology are treating botanical gardens and zoos as museums, he questions the ideas behind and deals with the rejection of the terms 'cultural and natural heritage' (used by UNESCO/ICOM) and 'monument' (used by the institutions for the preservation of monuments) by the Strnsk school. The political value of these terms is recognized, but not their scientific one. The author gives an introduction to the specific scientific object of museology, its history and structure. In the final part, the author offers a museological view on botanical gardens.
24365181|Der Alte Botanische Garten in Mnchen, d. h. der ehemals knigliche botanische Garten, ist heute nur mehr rudimentr erahnbar. Er wurde mehrfach mehr oder weniger willkrlich umgestaltet. Eine museale Vermittlung als historisch besonderer Ort ist nahezu nicht vorhanden. Die Bedeutung des Alten Botanischen Gartens fr die Stadtentwicklung wird nicht gewrdigt. Die nationalsozialistischen Vernderungen haben ein zu starkes Gewicht. Die Autorin entwickelt im Beitrag aus museologischer und kritischer Sicht Vorschlge, wie der Alte Botanische Garten rekultiviert werden kann. The Old Botanical Garden in the city centre of Munich, formerly the Royal Botanical Garden, is recognizable only as a rudiment. The garden was transformed several times more or less arbitrarily for political, commercial and social reasons. Except for a few explanatory words on a sign, its function as a site of historic importance is not mentioned, and no tribute at all is paid to the significant role it played in the city's development. The changes made during the Nazi era still weigh too heavily. The author offers some ideas from a critical museological perspective how to recultivate the garden.
10.2307/20358184|The Adenio obesi-Sterculietum africanae, a drought-deciduous woodland community, is described as a new association from the Jabal Arays, northeast of Shuqra in the Abyan governorate, in mainland Yemen. It is characterized by the large emergents of Sterculia africana var. africana, overtopping the tree layer nearly double. Floristic, ecological and physiognomic affinities strongly point at a joint origin of the drought-deciduous Adenium-Sterculia woodland on the Arabian-African mainland and Socotra. The new association is also widespread in Africa and is best classified in the Boscio angustifoliae-Commiphoretea abyssinicae class, which comprises the various types of Acacia-Commiphora woodland.
24365188|Der Beitrag gibt einen kurzen Abriss der Geschichte des Botanischen Gartens Mnchen an seinem heutigen Standort in Nymphenburg wobei der Schwerpunkt auf den historischen Gebuden und Kunstwerken liegt. A brief history is provided of the Munich Botanical Garden, focusing on the past 100 years. The garden's main historical buildings and works of art are illustrated.
10.2307/3776783| The lichens growing on Quercus ilex, Q. pubescens s. lat., Q. suber and Q. coccifera s. lat. were studied at 92 plots placed in 62 selected localities spread throughout Sardinia (Italy). Earlier reports of species in the island were taken into consideration. On all oak species, 331 lichen taxa were found. During the project Lecanora leuckertiana was discovered, as well as a new variety, Ramalina farinacea var. variolarica and a new chemotype of Lepraria nivalis. Further 75 taxa are new to Sardinia, 13 of which are also new to Italy (Chaenothecopsis vainioana, Lecania cf. lesdainii, Lecanora farinaria, L. hybocarpa, L. paramerae, Lepraria cf. nivalis, Lecidea hypopta, Ochrolechia cf. androgyna, Protoparmelia ochrococca, R. subfarinacea var. salazinica, Schismatomma cretaceum, S. niveum and Usnea madeirensis) and six are reported for the first time from the Mediterranean region. In the light of this the European distribution of Lecanora farinaria, L. leuckertiana, Ochrolechia cf. androgyna, Protoparmelia ochrococca and R. subfarinacea var. salazinica is reviewed. Information on the distribution and ecology (e.g. phorophyte preference, altitudinal limits, nitrophily, photophily, hygrophily, commoness-rarity status) of each taxon is given; in many cases such information was poorly known, especially for the Mediterranean region. TLC analyses were carried out for many difficult genera, whose chemistry had been hitherto not investigated in material from Italy, and in some cases in the Mediterranean region (e.g. Lepraria s. lat., Ochrolechia). The lichen flora on Quercus in Sardinia appears to be very rich in comparison with those on oak reported from other European countries and Italian regions. 256 taxa were found on Q. ilex, 207 on Q. pubescens, 168 on Q. suber and 20 on Q. coccifera. The Lecanorales are the order represented by most species (69% of taxa); the Parmeliaceae (46 taxa), Physciaceae (44 taxa) and Lecanoraceae (36 taxa) are the families to follow. Only 10 species were found on all oak species, while 99 colonize Q. ilex, Q. pubescens and Q. suber, but not Q. coccifera. These lichens are mostly widespread temperate species with wide ecological amplitudes. 64 taxa were collected exclusively on Q. ilex, 30 on Q. pubescens, 27 on Q. suber and 3 on Q. coccifera. Most of the taxa grow on trunks (287), while the flora is much poorer on twigs (159 taxa). The "rare" component reaches 44% of the entire flora, showing its great importance for biodiversity. A phytogeographical analysis of the flora is also presented. The most common chorotypes in the entire lichen flora on oaks are the widespread temperate (33.8%), the suboceanic (32.9%) and the Mediterranean-Atlantic (8.8%). Quercus ilex hosts the highest percentage of suboceanic species (36.8%) and the lowest of widespread temperate species (32.4%). Q. pubescens hosts more temperate species (37.1%) and less suboceanic (31.7%). Q. suber has a high percentage of widespread temperate (46.4%) and only 28.9% of suboceanic species. Q. coccifera hosts 60% of the widespread temperate and only 15% of the suboceanic species. This indicates the more disturbed status of cork-oak stands and formations with kermes-oak. The Index of Microclimatic Dryness (IMD) (no. of widespread temperate species / no. of suboceanic species) is proposed for the first time and calculated for each plot. The index appears to be well correlated with the forest type: in well-preserved forests it shows a low value, while its value increases gradually in disturbed forest environments, from open woodland to pasture land. The percentage occurrence of the different photobionts in the lichen flora was studied. The most interesting results are the higher frequency of lichens with Trentepohlia along the coasts of north-western and western Sardinia, where the climate is most humid, and in well-preserved montane areas. Lichens with cyanobacteria are restricted to well-preserved forests and avoid pasture land and littoral vegetation. Lichens with green algae are the only ones present in disturbed habitats and xeric conditions. Crustose lichens are most common in the flora (51%), followed by broad-lobed species (16%). Fruticose-filamentose lichens and leprose lichens are the most sensitive to changes in environmental conditions, and are mostly restricted to forests with long ecological continuity. Only "saxicolous" Lepraria nivalis seems to be well adapted to disturbed conditions. Sorediate crutose lichens growing on trunks are in general more sensitive than lichens with other growth-form and reproductive strategy. Quercus suber hosts the highest percentage of very nitrophytic lichens (7.1%). The lowest percentage is found on Q. ilex (4.2%), while Q. pubescens has an intermediate value (5.4%). Q. suber and Q. coccifera, being most frequent in disturbed environments, host the highest percentages of moderately nitrophytic species (34.2% and 67.9% respectively). Indicator species of old-growth and of disturbed conditions are recognized in the flora. The RIEC (Revised Index of Ecological Continuity) is calculated for all examined forests. The highest values (100) were obtained for the forests of the Marghine-Goceano and for the southern part of the Gennargentu (65). A few localities have values of 10-40. The greatest part of the investigated forests have no species faithful to old-growth forest, thus showing the presence of high disturbance due to human activities (e.g. frequent fires, overgrazing). A hemeroby scale relative to oak forests in Sardinia based on the floristic and ecological studies of the present work, is proposed with seven degrees of hemeroby [H0 (absent) - H6 (high)]. The following parameters were taken into consideration: number of epiphytic lichen taxa/forest; RIEC value; Index of Microclimatic Dryness; number of species belonging to the Caliciales; percentage of nitrophytic species; indicator species. A hemeroby degree was attributed to the examined plots. The majority of the plots are included in the H4 degree. A cluster analysis was applied to absence/presence tables for releves carried out in different forest types of each oak species. From the analysis it appears that the lichen floras of forests at lower altitudes and of littoral forest are clearly distinct from those of inland and montane forests. Another distinction is due to the forest type, and the flora of well-preserved forest is usually separated from those of younger or more open woodland and pasture land. The cluster analysis applied to the species growing on trunks and present in the different examined plots shows clusters of nitrophytic species (Xanthorion), clusters of species typical of open and young woodland (communities with Parmelia, Pertusaria, Ochrolechia, Ramalina and Physconia species) and clusters of species typical of undisturbed forest (Lobarion communities and associations with Lepraria s.lat. species). Finally, problems related to the conservation of lichens are treated. 
10.2307/20358176|Flora and vegetation of the Canary Island of El Hierro have been investigated since 1997 by both authors. The floristic inventory of the island has been recorded by means of a grid mapping following the 11 km UTM grid. Both indigenous and introduced taxa were examined. The most important cultivated species were also mapped, particularly when they tend to escape into the wild. Beside the corresponding taxonomic literature, many experts were consulted for the identification of the numerous critical taxa. As a result, an annotated checklist of the vascular plants of El Hierro is presented, together with the distribution maps for c. 550 taxa. Information on endemism, floristic status, life form, record history, altitudinal preferences and selected literature is given. Critical aspects are discussed in the accompanying comments. The floristic information presented in this study supplements the results of the phytosociological research by the authors, which have already been published. Hence, a complete database on flora and vegetation of El Hierro has been established, which may serve as a basis for further scientific studies and conservation efforts.
24365187|Im Jahr 1820 gegrndet, gehrt der Botanische Garten der TU Dresden mit rund 3,5 ha Flche zu den kleineren in Deutschland. An den heutigen Standort wurde er Ende des 19. Jahrhunderts verlegt und erhielt dabei eine charakteristische Gliederung in eine systematische und eine pflanzengeographische Abteilung. Die Anlage der Pflanzengeographie folgt dabei der Lenn-Meyerschen Schule bzw. dem gemischten Gartenstil. Bei der Bombardierung Dresdens im Jahre 1945 wurde der Garten weitgehend zerstrt. Die historischen Gewchshuser gingen anschlieend durch Demontage verloren. Die Ersatzbauten seit den 1970er Jahren missachteten die historischen Bezge und verstellen z. T. die Sichtachsen innerhalb des Gartens bzw. zu Punkten im benachbarten Groen Garten. Die Aufgabe der Fremdnutzung eines Teils des Gartens (ca. 1,3 ha) ermglicht in den nchsten Jahren den Neubau der Gebudeinfrastruktur (Verwaltung und Gewchshuser) an bisher ungenutzter Stelle. Sie soll modernen Erfordernissen nach rationeller Arbeitsorganisation und effektivem Energieeinsatz gehorchen. Gleichzeitig knnen durch den Abri der Altbauten auf Basis eines architektonischen Konzeptes historische Bezge wieder hergestellt und dem Denkmalschutz Rechnung getragen werden. Established in 1820 and covering about 3.5 hectares, the Botanical Garden of the Dresden University of Technology is one of Germany's smaller botanical gardens. At the end of the 19th century the garden was relocated to its present site, where it was divided into a taxonomic and a phytogeographical section. The layout of the latter conformed to the Lenn-Meyer school or mixed garden style. During the Allied bombing of Dresden in 1945 the garden was almost completely destroyed. The historic conservatories were lost due to subsequent disassembly. The provisional buildings that replaced them in the 1970s disregarded historical associations and obstructed views of the garden and landmarks in the nearby park, known as the "Grosser Garten". Currently about 1.3 hectares of the original area are not at the disposal of the garden but will become available in the near future. Their reinstatement to the garden will create an opportunity to build a new infrastructure for the garden administration and new conservatories on formerly unused sites so as to meet the need for state-of-the-art organization and the efficient use of energy. At the same time the removal of the provisional buildings will facilitate the restoration of the historical associations based on a concept that takes both architectural and heritage considerations into account.
24365184|Die Unterscheidung von Sorten und Varietten ist relativ jungen Ursprungs. Bis ins 18. Jahrhundert gab es gar kaum infraspezifische Unterscheidungskriterien. Die infraspezifische Ebene der Variett wurde durch Linn 1753 definiert. Er verstand hierunter in Kultur entstandene Formen. Im 19. Jahrhundert kamen Streitigkeiten ber die Frage auf, ob Varietten in botanische Grten aufzunehmen seien. In dieser Zeit bemhte man sich vielfach um die Verbindung knstlerischer und wissenschaftlicher Prinzipien in der Gartenkunst, und zwar besonders in botanischen Grten. Grnde sind in einer gezielten ffentlichkeitsarbeit und in Volksbildungs-Bestrebungen zu sehen, die in Berlin Karl Koch formulierte. Nomenklatorisch wurde erst im 20. Jahrhundert die bis heutige Trennung von Varietten und Sorten vollzogen. Liberty Hyde Bailey schuf aus cultivated variety" den Begriff des Cultivars (Sorte) fr in der Kultur entstandene Varietten, whrend der Rang Variett (var.") den in der Natur entstandenen Varietten vorbehalten wurde. 1952 wurde auf Vorschlag von William T. Stearn die heutige Schreibweise der Sorten im Internationalen Code der Nomenklatur der Kulturpflanzen festgelegt. Eine Verbannung der Kulturpflanzen aus botanischen Grten mag aus Grnden der Arbeitsteilung und aus Platzgrnden geboten erscheinen. In lteren botanischen Grten, die auch unter denkmalpflegerischen Aspekten zu behandeln sind, ist es aber geboten, Ausnahmen von diesem Prinzip zuzulassen. A distinction between cultivars and varieties originated only late in the history of botany. Up to the 18th century, there had hardly arisen any criteria for infraspecific distinction. The infraspecific rank variety was introduced by Linnaeus in 1753. He defined variety as a taxon which had originated under cultivation. During the 19th century, a controversy arose as to whether varieties should be included in botanic gardens. Several scholars of 19th century endeavoured to unite artistic and scientific pinciples in garden design and especially in botanical gardens, as did, for example, Karl Koch in Berlin. Only in the 20th century was the actual distinction between varieties and cultivars confirmed. Liberty Hyde Bailey created from "cultivated variety" the portmanteau term cultivar, meaning a taxon that had originated in cultivation, whereas "var." was restricted now to varieties that had originated in nature. In 1952, a proposal by William T. Stearn was accepted, thereby establishing the actual spelling of cultivar names in the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants. A banishment of cultivated plants from botanical gardens may be reasonable because of division of labour or lack of space. In older botanical gardens, however, conservation aspects are appropriate, too, and exeptions from this rule should be allowed.
10.2307/20358185|The present flora treats the bryophytes of Socotra Island with keys to all species, descriptions including the main characters and notes on the occurrence of the species on the island. Illustrations are given for the endemics and most of the phytogeographically outstanding tropical species. The flora includes one hornwort, 31 liverworts and 48 mosses. Altogether, 80 species are known from Socotra. One species, Tortella inclinata, is recorded for the first time from Socotra. Additionally, a short overview of the bryofloristic exploration of Socotra Island, the phytochorial elements and a phytogeographical analysis of the bryoflora are given. Numerous pantropical, palaeotropical and Afromontane taxa are found at the monsoon-affected, often foggy higher altitudes of the Haghier Mts, indicating the strong floristic relationships between Socotra, S Africa and Asia. In contrast, the arid and semi-arid karstic limestone plateaus (Diksam, Hamadero, Ma'alah, Qatariyah) harbour drought-adapted and drought-tolerant taxa of mainly xerothermic-Pangaean and circum-Tethyan origin that are widely distributed on the Arabian Peninsula.
24365182|Bedeutende Gartentheoretiker wie Jger, Migge oder Lichtwark haben botanische Grten in sthetischer Hinsicht herbe kritisiert oder ihnen sogar jede gartenknstlerische Aufgabe abgesprochen. In botanischen Grten selbst wurde die sthetik vielfach lediglich als Zugestndnis an das Publikum betrachtet. Das grundlegende gestalterischen Problem botanische Grten drfte darin liegen, die Diversitt der Pflanzenwelt zu entfalten und dafr eine berzeugende Darstellung zu finden. Das Spannungsfeld sthetik  Systematik  Nutzen soll anhand der Geschichte der sogenannten Systeme in botanischen Grten deutlich gemacht werden sowie an jngeren Beispielen aus Hamburg. Dabei steht das Wirken des Gartenleiters und Gartengestalters Johannes Apel (19171997) im Vordergrund. In the past, leading garden theorists like Jger, Migge or Lichtwark have severely criticized botanical gardens for aesthetical reasons and even denied that they possess any obligation for garden art. On the other hand, many botanical gardens have regarded aesthetics merely as a concession to the general public and not as a fundamental task. The basic design problem of botanical gardens seems to be the demonstration of plant diversity and to find convincing solutions for it. Aesthetics vs. taxonomy vs. use may form an area of conflict in botanical gardens. This topic is explored with a focus on the history of the systematic arrangements of plants in botanical gardens and on more recent examples from Hamburg, with a focus on the works of Johannes Apel (19171997), chief gardener and garden designer, who shaped the botanical gardens at Hamburg.
10.2307/3776755| The first taxonomic revision of the entire genus Launaea, which is chiefly distributed in Africa and SW Asia, is provided. 54 species with 10 subspecies, grouped in eight sections, are recognized. Three sections, i.e. L. sect. Castanospermae, Cervicornes, and Cornutae, seven species, i.e. L. almahrahensis, L. amal-aminae, L. angolensis, L. lackii, L. omanensis, L. quettansis, and L. socotrana, as well as one subspecies, L. fragilis subsp. asirensis, are described as new to science, and the combinations L. acanthodes subsp. tomentella, L. cabrae, L. cabrae subsp. nanella, L. petitiana, L. polydichotoma, and L. pseudoabyssinica are formed as names new to science. General parts deal with the history, distribution, taxonomic position and delimitation of the genus, as well as with its morphology (including pericarp anatomy). Illustrations, keys to all taxa recognized, full synonymies, references to further illustrations, descriptions, chromosome numbers, data on the ecogeography including geographical distribution maps, lists of the specimens studied, and data on the use of the species are provided. The chromosome numbers of L. benadirensis (2n = 16) and L. petitiana (2n = 18, 36, 54) are reported for the first time, the latter being the first report of a hexaploid cytotype for the genus. A new chromosome number for L. cornuta (2n = 10) is reported, prolonging the series of consecutive basic numbers known in the genus from x = 9 down to x = 5. Indexes to the scientific names referring to the genus, to the geographical distribution of the species, and to the revised collections are provided. 
10.2307/3776757|A comparative morphological study of the subtribe Carduinae, tribe Cardueae, Compositae, on genus level was performed in order to reconstruct intergeneric relationships in a cladistic analysis. The Carduinae, which are the largest subtribe of the Cardueae, comprise about 1600 species, many of which are known as thistles and have ecological and economic significance, especially as weeds. The recognition of monophyletic groups within the Carduinae and the relationship between the Carduinae and the closely related subtribe Centaureinae are important aims of the present study. 52 characters, which are phylogenetically informative on the respective taxonomic level, are identified, corresponding to 66 character state transitions. Several new characters are described. Among the most important are the relative length, structure and symmetry of the pappus bristles, the shape and distribution of sclerenchyma elements in the pericarp, the wall reinforcements in the testa epidermis cells, and the shape of the cell walls in the dorsal corolla lobe epidermis. Ontogenetic studies in the achenes have helped to clarify the nature of structures such as the pappus base or the cupula of the Jurinea pappus. Cladistic analysis of 37 ingroup and three outgroup taxa using the program PAUP yields 48 most parsimonious trees. The results support the monophyly of the Carduinae+Centaureinae (= Cardueae s. str.). Berardia, which has been regarded as a genus of uncertain affinities, is morphologically closest to the hypothetical common ancestor of the Carduinae+Centaureinae in the cladogram. Within the ingroup consisting of Carduinae+Centaureinae, several well-supported groups of genera could be identified: the Centaureinae, the Cousinia group, the Jurinea group, the Saussurea group, and the Carduus-Cirsium group. The smaller genera Lamyropsis, Ptilostemon and Cynara form a predominantly Mediterranean complex together with the Carduus-Cirsium group, in which they probably represent early evolutionary lines. The basal relationships within the ingroup are characterised by a dichotomy which divides the ingroup into two large sister clades. This early split does not correspond to the Carduinae-Centaureinae subdivision. The Carduinae are paraphyletic. The sister group of the Centaureinae contains the large Carduinae complexes around the genera Cousinia, Jurinea and Saussurea, which are mentioned above. The Centaureinae and their sister group are united by morphological synapomorphies such as short outer pappus bristles, a rugose pericarp and undulate cell walls in the dorsal corolla lobe epidermis. The other large clade produced by the basal dichotomy contains the aforementioned Mediterranean complex as a derived group and the genera Onopordum, Synurus, Alfredia, Olgaea, Xanthopappus, Ancathia and Lamyropappus in a basal paraphyletic grade. The members of this basal grade are characterised by several plesiomorphic features. A plesiomorphic condition for the Carduinae+Centaureinae in general is postulated on the basis of the present results. It manifests itself among others in a straw-coloured fragile pappus, flattened pappus bristles which are scabrous on the dorsal side, the presence of a carpopodium, a strong testa epidermis consisting of radially elongated cells, papillose stamen filaments, an irregular number of main vascular bundles in the pericarp and an alveolate receptacle. Many of these features are present in the genera of the basal grade. Their relictual nature as concluded from their mostly small species numbers and their isolated distribution areas confirms the view that these genera are probably among the oldest in the Carduinae. Several evolutionary trends within the Carduinae have been pointed out by putting the resulting cladogram into a geographical, ecological and cytological context: 1. Two main centres of diversification are assumed: (1) a Mediterranean-SW Asian centre, in which the Carduus-Cirsium group is most diverse, and (2) a Central Asian-Hi-malayan centre, in which the basal Centaureinae genera Serratula and Stemmacantha as well as the genera in the sister group of the Centaureinae have evolved. It is concluded that the large subtribe Centaureinae with its almost world-wide distribution has originated in Central Asia. 2. The genera in the Central Asian clade occur predominantly in subalpine and alpine habitats, whereas in the Mediterranean complex, a wider ecological range can be observed. 3. Genera which are mainly restricted to mountain areas show no apparent adaptations to long-distance dispersal of the achenes. This trend is interpreted as a minimization of risk by concentrating the reproductive effort in maintaining the growth site in adverse environments. Structures which preclude long-distance dispersal of achenes are e.g. a fragile pappus or length reduction of pappus bristles. Some widespread groups among the Carduinae have developed efficient mechanisms for long-distance dispersal: among the most important are wind dispersal through a plumose pappus, myrmecochory through elaiosomes and epizoochory through sticking to animals by a viscous pericarp or by capitula with hooked involucral bracts. 4. The ancestral chromosome number within the Carduinae is possibly n = 18, which can be reduced to a base chromosome number of 9. The chromosome numbers n = 17 and n = 13, which are most common in the Carduinae, have probably arisen by aneuploid reductions from n = 18. The systematic recommendations which are drawn from the present analysis mainly concern the status of small genera. Some genera are easily attributable to larger groups. It is suggested that these genera should be critically addressed in future taxonomic treatments. The retention of the genus status of some isolated relictual genera such as Ancathia and Lamyropappus (formerly included in Cirsium), Alfredia and Olgaea (sometimes included in Carduus) and Dolomiaea (sometimes included in Jurinea) is recommended.
10.2307/3776772|A revision of the genus Amorphophallus in Africa, including Madagascar, is presented. A total of 35 species and seven subspecies are distinguished, all of them are described and illustrated; in addition keys and distribution maps are provided as well as notes on habitat and ecology.
10.2307/3776750|The genus Pluchea (Compositae, Plucheeae) comprises 45 species distributed world wide in tropical and subtropical regions. This revision is focused on the species in the Old World and covers aspects of their taxonomic history, morphology, distribution, habitats, uses and infrageneric relationships. In addition, the delimitation of related genera is discussed. On the basis of detailed morphological studies all species are fully described. Illustrations, achene cross sections, chromosome numbers, distribution maps and a key to all investigated species are presented. 29 species are accepted, which are distributed in Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, South East Asia and Australia. For one of the species excluded from the genus the new combination Blumea hirsuta is validated. Two other species, P. incisa from the Philippines and P. polygonata from Indochina hold an uncertain taxonomic position and are probably also to be excluded from the genus. Phylogenetic relationships in the genus were analysed using morphological data. The data matrix comprises 28 ingroup taxa and 28 characters. A cladistic analysis was conducted using the computer program PAUP. Characters were polarized using the method of outgroup comparison. The results support five tentative species groups within the genus.
10.2307/3776777|Three sections of Astragalus, i.e. A. sect. Adiaspastus, sect. Macrophyllium and sect. Pterophorus are revised. The circumscription of the sections is modified to make them natural. However, they are not sharply delimited, because there are some intermediate species between these three sections and A. sect. Rhacophorus, the largest section of tragacanthic astragali with almost 100 species. A. sect. Acidodes, whose systematic position was very controversial, is reduced to synonymy of sect. Adiaspastus, because of the close affinity of the two lectotypes. Since the monotypic A. sect. Brachycalyx has close allies within sect. Adiaspastus, and since there are no important features for separating it from the latter, it is also reduced to synonymy. On the basis of some important trends, an informal grouping is undertaken for A. sect. Adiaspastus. The A. sahendi group, which was treated as belonging to A. sect. Acanthophace in the most recent literature, is transferred to A. sect. Adiaspastus as a consequence of important differences in hair micromorphology. The species of the A. cerasocrenus group, which occur in the Kopet Dagh mountain range and in Afghanistan, are transferred to A. sect. Rhacophorus because of certain apomorphies in calyx structure, standard shape, etc. The presence of two persisting bracteoles resembling the calyx teeth, is the only feature separating A. sect. Pterophorus from sect. Rhacophorus. The species of this section do not occur east of Central Anatolia. The exact systematic position of A. sect. Pterophorus and its possible identity with sect. Rhacophorus is still to be examined. A. (sect. Pterophorus) condensatus is one of the most variable species within thorny Astragalus. A. sect. Macrophyllium seems to be a natural group characterized by a sturdy habit and usually glabrous leaves. A. glabrifolius is the only species within this section which possesses a firm calyx, a character connecting this species to A. sect. Adiaspastus. It is found in Afghanistan and shows the only disjunction in the distribution of A. sect. Macrophyllium. A. oleaefolius is the most widespread species within the section and shows a considerable variation. A cladistic analysis including almost all sections of thorny Astragalus is performed, using mainly morphological characters. These are the most important results: 1. Tragacanthic astragali are monophyletic, but separating them from Astragalus makes the latter paraphyletic. 2. Except for A. sect. Adiaspastus, all sections of tragacanthic Astragalus show an unresolved branching pattern, a result of high homoplasy exhibited by morphological characters. 3. Maintaining the monotypic A. sect. Diacme and sect. Polystegis is supported. The systematically isolated A. psilodontius should be assigned to a section of its own. 4. A. sect. Megalocystis, in the present form, is polyphyletic. Transferring some species from this section to sect. Microphysa and keeping the monotypic A. sect. Eriostoma make it monophyletic. 5. A. sect. Tricholobus is to be included in A. sect. Campylanthus, otherwise the latter is paraphyletic. 6. A. sect. Poterion is not closely related to other sections of Bunge's subgenus Calycophysa. Based on a cladistic analysis the patterns of homoplasy are discussed. Many characters, e.g. flower size, considered earlier to be very important in distinguishing natural groups, show a very homoplastic nature, which disapproves the classifications based on them. Distribution maps, keys to the species, descriptions and synonymies are provided. Most of the names are typified. A diagnostic key to all sections of thorny Astragalus is also given.
3776766|The life and work of Otto Warburg is studied and set into the context of his time. In addition, his role in founding natural science institutions in Palestine is elucidated. Born in Hamburg, Warburg graduated from Strasburg University and travelled from 1885 to 1889 in Southeast Asia bringing back a considerable collection of plant specimens later donated to the Royal Botanical Museum in Berlin. He published extensively on this expedition, notably on the plants of economic importance and subsequently became associated with Adolf Engler, contributing e.g. the account of "Pandanaceae" to the series Das Pflanzenreich. Based permanently in Berlin Warburg's interests shifted gradually to economic plants, in particular those of relevance for the colonies of the Deutsches Reich. He founded and edited the journal "Der Tropenpflanzer" and became deeply involved in colonial affairs arguing for a scientific approach in developing tropical agriculture. Through marriage Warburg had come into contact with Zionism and corresponded with e.g. Theodor Herzl. Soon he became a key figure of the so-called practical Zionism aiming at the support of settlers in Palestine, which effectively meant helping them to develop agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry. In 1911 Warburg was elected president of the World Zionist Congress and remained in office until 1920. After the Deutsches Reich had lost its colonies and after the headquarters of Zionism had moved to England, Warburg devoted his activities more and more to establishing research institutions in Palestine. He became founding director of the Agricultural Experimental Station in Tel Aviv, which later developed into the Institute of Agriculture and Natural History, part of which subsequently integrated into the Faculty of Science of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. Warburg was an important figure in university politics, in particular as mediator in the Magnes-Einstein controversy. He was also the founder of the botanical garden of the Hebrew University on Mt Scopus. Retired from his position in Jerusalem Warburg died in Berlin in early 1938. A comprehensive list of Warburg's publications is included as well as those by two of his close collaborators, i.e. Aaron Aaronsohn who had rediscovered "Triticum dicoccoides" in Palestine and Alexander Eig. In an appendix the biographies of the founding generation of natural scientists in "Erez Israel" are added.
24368335|Based on collection activities over the past 25 years, a revision of literature, and unpublished materials, an annotated checklist of trees and arborescent species found in and reported from El Salvador, Central America is presented. This is the second of three volumes covering 29 angiosperm plant families (Magnoliaceae to Punicaceae, and Achatocarpaceae) and 3 families of ferns. A total of 289 species and 24 subspecies and varieties are recognised, representing 291 taxa at the most basic rank, of which 205 are native in El Salvador. The checklist includes the correct names, their synonyms as far as they have been in use for Salvadorian taxa, the basionyms, and nomenclatural details for all names cited. Additional data for each taxon include vernacular names, data on local and global distribution, selected information on (potential) utilisation, as well as detailed literature references from works directly referring to the flora of El Salvador as well as a selection of relevant Central American floras. A total of 1682 herbarium collections are cited in this volume, of which 1426 specimens are located  and have been revised  at LAGU and/or B. The introduction provides a summary of collection activities related to the Jardn Botnico La Laguna as well as an introduction to taxonomic inventories in El Salvador.
10.2307/20358183|12 species, Arthropteris orientalis, Chamaecrista pumila, Cordia crenata, Cosentinia vellea, Dryopteris schimperiana, Eragrostis tenuifolia, Galinsoga parviflora, Lagenantha cf. cycloptera, Olea capensis, Polystichum fuscopaleaceum, Rhus natalensis and R. cf. tenui-nervis, are reported as new for the island. Five of these also represent new generic records, i.e. Arthropteris, Cosentinia, Dryopteris, Olea and Polystichum. Volutaria socotrensis is described, by G. Wagenitz, as a species and Euphorbia socotrana subsp. purpurea as a subspecies new to science and illustrated. Recent records from the island of 13 species hitherto only known from late 19th century records and significant new locality records of 32 rare or undercollected taxa are provided.
10.2307/20358186|A phytosociological analysis of the rocky upper Haghier Mts on Socotra Island for the first time revealed a saxicolous bryophyte community, the Grimmietum commutato-campestris grimmietosum affinis. On Socotra, it is represented by an endemic development (geographical race), dominated by the endemic Schlotheimia balfourii, typical for sun-exposed, acidic rocks that underly a strong desiccation. Life form and life strategy analyses show that xero-tolerant cushion species, short turf-forming 'generative' perennial shuttle species, perennial stayers and 'pauciennial' colonists prevail, thus clearly indicating harsh and xeric site conditions.
24365186|Der Botanische Garten Montreal wurde 1931 von dem Ordensgeistlichen Marie-Victorin (18851944) auf Beschluss des Exekutivkomitees der Stadt Montreal angelegt. Bruder Marie-Victorin hat den Garten zwar gegrndet, war sich jedoch bewusst, dass seine Kenntnisse fr dessen Ausgestaltung nicht reichen wrden. Man empfahl ihm Henry Teuscher (18911984), der damals als Dendrologe am Botanischen Garten New York beschftigt war. Vor seiner Anstellung als first Superintendent" des Botanischen Gartens Montreal verffentlichte er in der Zeitschrift Parks and Recreation einen Artikel mit dem Titel Der botanische Garten der Zukunft". Diese Schrift wurde zum Masterplan fr den botanischen Garten mit dem ersten Spatenstich 1936 und in den folgenden Jahren. Teuscher und Marie-Victorin hatten eine gemeinsame Vision: Ein moderner botanischer Garten sollte sich von normalen Grten durch Schnheit, Struktur und Ntzlichkeit unterscheiden. Teuscher war der Meinung, dass ein botanischer Garten vor allem eine Bildungseinrichtung sein muss, dessen sthetik Besucher neugierig macht und ihr Interesse an der Wissenschaft weckt. Von Anbeginn hat sich der Botanische Garten Montreal entsprechend den von Teuscher aufgestellten Prinzipien entwickelt. Heute, etwa 80 Jahre spter, hat Montreal einen der schnsten und grten botanischen Grten der Welt, der mit 22.000 Taxa und etwa 30 Themengrten jedes Jahr 1 Million Besucher anzieht. The Montreal Botanical Garden was founded by Brother Marie-Victorin (18851944) in 1931, following a City of Montreal Executive Committee resolution. Although Marie-Victorin was the garden's founder, he knew that he was not qualified to be its designer. It was recommended to him to enlist Henry Teuscher (18911984) who was working at the time as a dendrologist at the New York Botanical Garden. Before he was hired as the Montreal Botanical Garden's first superintendent, he published an article in the Parks and Recreation magazine entitled "The Botanical Garden of the Future." This would become the master plan for the Botanical Garden when construction started in 1936 and for all the years thereafter. Teuscher and Marie-Victorin shared a specific vision in which a modern Botanical Garden would be differentiated from ordinary gardens in terms of its beauty, organization and utility. Teuscher felt that a Botanical Garden must be an educational institution, above all, in which the aesthetic side would appeal to visitors' curiosity and awaken their interest in the sciences. Ever since, the Montreal Botanical Garden has been developed according to the principles laid out by Teuscher. Today, c. 80 years later, the Montreal Botanical Garden is one of the world's finest and largest, with its 22 000 taxa, some thirty thematic gardens and one million visitors every year.
24365185|Die Breslauer Anlage ist der zweitlteste botanische Garten Polens. Im Jahr 1974 wurde sie in die Liste der Kulturdenkmler Niederschlesiens eingetragen. Seit 1994 ist sie ein Teil der historischen Stadtmitte Breslaus, die unter besonderem Denkmalschutz steht. Der Garten entstand 1811 auf einer 5 ha groen, der Universitt von Friedrich Wilhelm III., Knig von Preuen, geschenkten Parzelle. Er wurde von hervorragenden Professoren fr Botanik geleitet, u. a. H. F. Link, L. Ch. Treviranus, Ch. G. Nees von Esenbeck, dem ersten deutschen Palobotaniker H. R. Gppert, sowie den Systematikern und Pflanzengeographen A. Engler und F. Pax. Gegen Ende des Zweiten Weltkrieges wurde der Garten stark zerstrt. Der Wiederaufbau begann 1948/49. In den nchsten Jahren wurde das Gelnde bis auf 7,4 ha erweitert, es entstanden neue Reviere: fr Morphologie und kologie der Pflanzen, Freilandzierpflanzen, Wasser- und Sumpfpflanzen, Kletterpflanzen, eine reiche Sammlung von Efeu-Arten und -sorten, sowie die palontologische Dauerausstellung Panorama der Natur". Im Jahr 1988, dank von Prof. T. Nowak wurde das seit dem 19. Jahrhundert bestehende, 6 ha groe Arboretum in Wojsawice/Woislowitz bei Nimptsch, eine Schpfung von Fritz von Oheimb, dem Garten als Auenstelle angeschlossen. Heute nimmt es eine Flche von ca. 65 ha ein und besitzt die grten Sammlungen von Rhododendron- und Hemerocallis-Arten und -sorten in Polen, sowie viele seltene Gehlze, besonders Nadelbume. The Botanical Garden in Wrocaw is the second oldest among the botanical gardens in Poland. In 1974 it was listed in the monument register of Lower Silesia and from 1994 it has been included within the borders of Wrocaw's specially protected historical city centre. The garden was founded in 1811 on a 5 ha plot of land donated to the university by Friedrich Wilhelm III, King of Prussia. It was managed by outstanding professors of botany, among them H. F. Link, L. Ch. Treviranus, Ch. G. Nees von Esenbeck, the first German paleobotanist H. R. Gppert, later by the systematists and plant geographers A. Engler and F. Pax. At the end of the Second World War the garden was substantially damaged. The reconstruction started in 1948/49. In the following years the garden's area was enlarged to 7.4 ha and new sections were added, dedicated to plant morphology and biology, outdoor ornamental plants, aquatic plants, climbing plants, a rich collection of species and cultivars of the genus Hedera, and a paleontological exhibition "Panorama of Nature". In 1988, thanks to the efforts of Prof. T. J. Nowak, an arboretum comprising 6 ha in Wojslawice near Niemcza, founded by F. von Oheimb in the 19th century, became a satellite garden. Today it covers an area of 65 ha and contains the biggest collections of Rhododendron and Hemerocallis species and cultivars in Poland, as well as many rare woody species, especially conifers.
24365190|Der Beitrag stellt Anlass, Ziele und bisherige Ergebnisse eines Gartenpflegewerks fr den Botanischen Garten Berlin-Dahlem vor, das 2006 vom Landesdenkmalamt Berlin, Referat Gartendenkmalpflege in Auftrag gegeben wurde und inzwischen abgeschlossen ist. This article presents the occasion, aims and current results of a preservation and management plan for the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem, which was commissioned by the Historic Gardens Conservation Unit of the Berlin Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission in 2006 and has now been completed.
24365183|Gegenwrtig wird davon ausgegangen, dass etwa ein Drittel aller Pflanzen, das sind etwa 100.000 Arten, vom Aussterben bedroht sind, wobei sich diese Zahl aufgrund der Auswirkungen des Klimawandels erhhen drfte. Die botanischen Grten der Welt spielen bei der Erhaltung der Artenvielfalt eine wichtige Rolle, da sie ber Ex-situ-Sammlungen verfgen, Programme zur Wiederansiedlung und Wiederherstellung untersttzen sowie Wissen vermitteln und das ffentliche Bewusstsein frdern. Die Globale Strategie zur Erhaltung der Pflanzen (Global Strategy for Plant Conservation, GSPC) bietet einen Rahmen fr Aktivitten auf globaler und lokaler Ebene und ist von vielen botanischen Grten bernommen worden. Die GSPC umfasst 16 Ziele, die bis 2010 erreicht werden sollen; Fortschritte bei ihrer Umsetzung wurden 2008 in einer Tiefenprfung untersucht. Dabei wurden die einzelnen Schritte recht unterschiedlich bewertet, insgesamt aber gilt die Strategie als Erfolg. Nunmehr werden Plne ausgearbeitet, wie die Strategie ber 2010 hinaus zu aktualisieren und fortzufhren ist, wobei insbesondere die Auswirkungen des Klimawandels untersucht werden sollen. Der Beitrag stellt weitere Einzelheiten der Umsetzung konkreter Ziele der GSPC und die den botanischen Grten dabei zukommende Rolle vor. It is thought that around one third of all plants, some 100000 species, are currently threatened with extinction, and this figure is likely to increase due to the impacts of climate change. The world's botanic gardens have a major role to play in conserving plant diversity, through their ex situ collections and their support for reintroduction and restoration programmes, as well as through their education and public awareness programmes. The Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) provides a framework for action at both global and local levels, and has been widely adopted by the botanic garden community. The GSPC includes 16 targets to be achieved by 2010 and progress towards these was assessed during an in-depth review in 2008. The review reported variable progress, but it is believed that the Strategy overall has been a success. Plans are now underway to update the strategy beyond 2010, with particular reference to the impacts of climate change. This paper provides more details of the progress towards specific targets of the GSPC and the role of botanic gardens in achieving these targets.
10.2307/3776769| An annotated enumeration of vascular plants from the valleys and slopes of Nanga Parbat, West Himalaya is presented. 962 native or naturalised species (and 9 additional subspecies) as well as 3 hybrids are recorded. In addition, 106 species are recorded as doubtful; the occurrence of 32 cultivated taxa is documented. All this information is based on field observations, herbarium material, a critical evaluation of literature records and on hitherto unpublished floristic data from C. Troll's 1937 expedition. The enumeration includes synonyms, vernacular and English names, data on local, altitudinal and general distribution, ecology, life-form, as well as information on status and (potential) utilisation. Phytogeographically, the flora of Nanga Parbat is predominantly West Himalayan (26.8%), with (Sino-) Himalayan elements comprising further 12.5%. In accordance with the peripheral location on the extreme north-west edge of the Himalayas the Nanga Parbat flora is characterised by high proportions of Central Asian (8.6%), Irano-Turanian (8.8%) and Pamirean (7.9%) elements, whereas Tibetan elements (1.9%) are poorly represented. Within the flora of the Himalayas Nanga Parbat is a stronghold of Eurasiatic (Euro Siberian, 13.2%) and circumpolar elements (7.6%). Considering the high amount of relief and climatic diversity endemics are not especially well represented and total c. 6.5%. Cosmopolitan (2.0%), subtropical (2.6%), and Mediterranean elements (1.6%) form minor floristic components. Steep orographical and climatic-ecological gradients correspond with a high degree of altitudinal variation and form a prominent feature of the flora and vegetation. Vegetation belts and formations on Nanga Parbat range from the dry-subtropical valley bottom deserts of the Indus Valley (colline belt: 1100-2000 m), through steppes and forest (submontane: 2000-2700 m, montane: 2700-3400 m), to the tree-line, scrub, dwarf-scrub, turf, and finally open scree and rock (subalpine 3400-3900 m, alpine 3900-4500 m, subnival 4500-5300 m) on the upper edge of the phanerogamic vegetation. Floristic data are presented and problems of biodiversity and chorology are discussed. Strong altitudinal differentiation with a pronounced maximum diversity at an altitude of about 2500-3800 m was observed. Patterns of distribution and diversity are discussed mainly in the context of geo-ecological constraints. A marked irregularity of diversity at about 2300 m seems to be related to relief features and climatic factors. The rather short-termed and limited research project revealed no clear signs of change in the species inventory due to recent human interference. The annotated enumeration of vascular plants presented here may serve as basis for subsequent investigations into the dynamics of the flora. However, repeat photography revealed environmental changes during the past 60 years. The increasing human impact on the natural resource basis and possible future perspectives are also discussed. /// Eine kommentierte Liste der Gefpflanzen des Nanga Parbat im nordwestlichen Himalaya wird vorgelegt. Auf der Grundlage eigener Feldarbeiten, von Herbarmaterial, und gesttzt auf eine kritische Auswertung der Literatur und der bislang unpublizierten floristischen Ergebnisse der Expedition von C. Troll im Jahre 1937, werden 962 einheimische oder eingebrgerte Arten (mit neun zustzlichen Unterarten), 3 Hybriden und 32 kultivierte Sippen fr das Gebiet nachgewiesen. Bei 106 weiteren Sippen bestehen Zweifel ber ihr Vorkommen bzw. ber ihren Status. Fr alle Taxa werden Synonyme, indigene und englische Pflanzennamen, Lokal-, Hhen- und Gesamtverbreitung, kologie, Lebensform, Status und Nutzungspotential angegeben. Phytogeographisch ist die Flora des Nanga Parbat eindeutig durch west-himalayische Elemente (26,8%) geprgt, (sino-)himalayische Elemente umfassen weitere 12.5%. Die periphere Lage am uersten nordwestlichen Rand des Himalaya bedingt hohe Anteile zentralasiatischer (8,9%), irano-turanischer (8,8%) und pamirischer Elemente (7,9%), whrend tibetische Elemente (1,9%) zurcktreten. Eurasiatische (euro-sibirische, 13,2%) und zirkumpolare Elemente (7,6%) sind demgegenber fr die Verhltnisse Hochasiens gut reprsentiert. Trotz der hohen Reliefenergie und der daraus resultierenden Diversitt kologischer Nischen sind Endemiten nur schwach vertreten (ca. 6,5%). Kosmopoliten (2,0%), subtropische (2,6%) und mediterrane Elemente (1,6%) bilden geringe Anteile an der Flora des Nanga Parbat. Entsprechend steiler Hangneigungen und starker klimatisch-kologischer Gradienten ist eine deutliche Hhenzonierung der Flora und Vegetation charakteristisch. Vegetationszonen und -formationen reichen von trocken-subtropischen Wsten des Indus-Talbodens (colline Stufe 1100-2000 m) ber Steppen- und Waldformationen (submontan: 2000-2700 m, montan: 2700-3400 m) bis zu den oberen Waldgrenzbereichen, Gebschen, Zwerggestruchen, Matten, offenen Schutt- und Felshngen (subalpin 3400-3900 m, alpin 3900-4500 m, subnival 4500-5300 m) an der oberen Grenze der Gefpflanzen-Vorkommen. Die Ergebnisse quantifizieren die altitudinalen Aspekte der Artendiversitt, die bei 2500-3800 m Meereshhe ein ausgeprgtes Maximum erreicht. Verbreitungs- und Diversittsmuster werden im Zusammenhang mit den landschaftskologischen Bedingungen diskutiert. Ein deutlicher Sprung in der Artendiversitt bei ca. 2300 m Meereshhe scheint mit Relief- und Klimabedingungen korreliert. Aufgrund der relativ kurzen Bearbeitungsdauer ergibt das floristische Material keine erkennbaren Hinweise auf rezente anthropogene Vernderungen. Die vorliegende Datenbasis kann jedoch als Grundlage fr knftige Untersuchungen ber die Florendynamik dienen. Fotovergleiche dokumentieren aber bereits deutliche Umweltvernderungen whrend des kurzen Zeitraums der letzten 60 Jahre. In diesem Zusammenhang werden der steigende anthropogene Einflu auf die natrlichen Ressourcen und mgliche Zukunftsperspektiven diskutiert. 
24365189|Die sterreichischen Bundesgrten und ihre Pflanzensammlungen positionieren sich in der Gartendenkmalpflege und der grtnerischen Handwerkskunst im Artenschutz, in der ffentlichkeit und mit ihrer wirtschaftlichen Bedeutung. The Austrian Federal Gardens and their plant collections possess a special position due to their role in the maintenance of garden monuments, in garden art, in the public awarness, and as economic entities.
10.2307/20358182|Based on field studies by the authors in March-April 2002 and March 2003, the altitudinal zonation of the woodland and forest vegetation in the moister northern part of Socotra Island is described and analysed. The phytosociological surveys along an altitudinal transect in the Haghier Mts from the coastal plain to the summit areas supplemented by surveys on the escarpments of the Hamadero and Ma'alah Plateau revealed a major divide between (semi)deciduous lowland and low montane communities (below c. 750 m) on the one hand and high montane communities at altitudes predominantly between c. 850 and 1500 m on the other hand. Differing in their substrates, climatic situation, floristic affinities and physiognomy, the communities of these two altitudinal ranges are classified in two different alliances, the low montane Crotonion socotrani and the high montane Crotonion sulcifructi all. nov., which can both be included in the new order Acridocarpo socotrani-Crotonetalia socotrani. Within the Crotonion socotrani the typical association (Crotonetum socotrani), usually heavily degraded, dominates the coastal plains and lower foothills, followed by an altitudinal form of which two associations can be distinguished. The slopes above the foothills are covered by forests with emergent Sterculia africana var. socotrana (Adenio sokotrani-Sterculietum socotranae ass. nov.), then above 500 m by a colourful forest with Boswellia ameero (Ruellio insignis-Boswellietum ameero ass. nov.). The high montane Crotonion sulcifructi includes a more widespread association, the Trichodesmo scottii-Cephalocrotonetum socotrani ass. nov., and an association particularly rich in epiphytic bryophytes, the Leucado hagghierensis-Pittosporetum viridiflorum ass. nov., which is restricted to the moistest sites.
24365183|Gegenwrtig wird davon ausgegangen, dass etwa ein Drittel aller Pflanzen, das sind etwa 100.000 Arten, vom Aussterben bedroht sind, wobei sich diese Zahl aufgrund der Auswirkungen des Klimawandels erhhen drfte. Die botanischen Grten der Welt spielen bei der Erhaltung der Artenvielfalt eine wichtige Rolle, da sie ber Ex-situ-Sammlungen verfgen, Programme zur Wiederansiedlung und Wiederherstellung untersttzen sowie Wissen vermitteln und das ffentliche Bewusstsein frdern. Die Globale Strategie zur Erhaltung der Pflanzen (Global Strategy for Plant Conservation, GSPC) bietet einen Rahmen fr Aktivitten auf globaler und lokaler Ebene und ist von vielen botanischen Grten bernommen worden. Die GSPC umfasst 16 Ziele, die bis 2010 erreicht werden sollen; Fortschritte bei ihrer Umsetzung wurden 2008 in einer Tiefenprfung untersucht. Dabei wurden die einzelnen Schritte recht unterschiedlich bewertet, insgesamt aber gilt die Strategie als Erfolg. Nunmehr werden Plne ausgearbeitet, wie die Strategie ber 2010 hinaus zu aktualisieren und fortzufhren ist, wobei insbesondere die Auswirkungen des Klimawandels untersucht werden sollen. Der Beitrag stellt weitere Einzelheiten der Umsetzung konkreter Ziele der GSPC und die den botanischen Grten dabei zukommende Rolle vor. It is thought that around one third of all plants, some 100000 species, are currently threatened with extinction, and this figure is likely to increase due to the impacts of climate change. The world's botanic gardens have a major role to play in conserving plant diversity, through their ex situ collections and their support for reintroduction and restoration programmes, as well as through their education and public awareness programmes. The Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) provides a framework for action at both global and local levels, and has been widely adopted by the botanic garden community. The GSPC includes 16 targets to be achieved by 2010 and progress towards these was assessed during an in-depth review in 2008. The review reported variable progress, but it is believed that the Strategy overall has been a success. Plans are now underway to update the strategy beyond 2010, with particular reference to the impacts of climate change. This paper provides more details of the progress towards specific targets of the GSPC and the role of botanic gardens in achieving these targets.
10.2307/3776769| An annotated enumeration of vascular plants from the valleys and slopes of Nanga Parbat, West Himalaya is presented. 962 native or naturalised species (and 9 additional subspecies) as well as 3 hybrids are recorded. In addition, 106 species are recorded as doubtful; the occurrence of 32 cultivated taxa is documented. All this information is based on field observations, herbarium material, a critical evaluation of literature records and on hitherto unpublished floristic data from C. Troll's 1937 expedition. The enumeration includes synonyms, vernacular and English names, data on local, altitudinal and general distribution, ecology, life-form, as well as information on status and (potential) utilisation. Phytogeographically, the flora of Nanga Parbat is predominantly West Himalayan (26.8%), with (Sino-) Himalayan elements comprising further 12.5%. In accordance with the peripheral location on the extreme north-west edge of the Himalayas the Nanga Parbat flora is characterised by high proportions of Central Asian (8.6%), Irano-Turanian (8.8%) and Pamirean (7.9%) elements, whereas Tibetan elements (1.9%) are poorly represented. Within the flora of the Himalayas Nanga Parbat is a stronghold of Eurasiatic (Euro Siberian, 13.2%) and circumpolar elements (7.6%). Considering the high amount of relief and climatic diversity endemics are not especially well represented and total c. 6.5%. Cosmopolitan (2.0%), subtropical (2.6%), and Mediterranean elements (1.6%) form minor floristic components. Steep orographical and climatic-ecological gradients correspond with a high degree of altitudinal variation and form a prominent feature of the flora and vegetation. Vegetation belts and formations on Nanga Parbat range from the dry-subtropical valley bottom deserts of the Indus Valley (colline belt: 1100-2000 m), through steppes and forest (submontane: 2000-2700 m, montane: 2700-3400 m), to the tree-line, scrub, dwarf-scrub, turf, and finally open scree and rock (subalpine 3400-3900 m, alpine 3900-4500 m, subnival 4500-5300 m) on the upper edge of the phanerogamic vegetation. Floristic data are presented and problems of biodiversity and chorology are discussed. Strong altitudinal differentiation with a pronounced maximum diversity at an altitude of about 2500-3800 m was observed. Patterns of distribution and diversity are discussed mainly in the context of geo-ecological constraints. A marked irregularity of diversity at about 2300 m seems to be related to relief features and climatic factors. The rather short-termed and limited research project revealed no clear signs of change in the species inventory due to recent human interference. The annotated enumeration of vascular plants presented here may serve as basis for subsequent investigations into the dynamics of the flora. However, repeat photography revealed environmental changes during the past 60 years. The increasing human impact on the natural resource basis and possible future perspectives are also discussed. /// Eine kommentierte Liste der Gefpflanzen des Nanga Parbat im nordwestlichen Himalaya wird vorgelegt. Auf der Grundlage eigener Feldarbeiten, von Herbarmaterial, und gesttzt auf eine kritische Auswertung der Literatur und der bislang unpublizierten floristischen Ergebnisse der Expedition von C. Troll im Jahre 1937, werden 962 einheimische oder eingebrgerte Arten (mit neun zustzlichen Unterarten), 3 Hybriden und 32 kultivierte Sippen fr das Gebiet nachgewiesen. Bei 106 weiteren Sippen bestehen Zweifel ber ihr Vorkommen bzw. ber ihren Status. Fr alle Taxa werden Synonyme, indigene und englische Pflanzennamen, Lokal-, Hhen- und Gesamtverbreitung, kologie, Lebensform, Status und Nutzungspotential angegeben. Phytogeographisch ist die Flora des Nanga Parbat eindeutig durch west-himalayische Elemente (26,8%) geprgt, (sino-)himalayische Elemente umfassen weitere 12.5%. Die periphere Lage am uersten nordwestlichen Rand des Himalaya bedingt hohe Anteile zentralasiatischer (8,9%), irano-turanischer (8,8%) und pamirischer Elemente (7,9%), whrend tibetische Elemente (1,9%) zurcktreten. Eurasiatische (euro-sibirische, 13,2%) und zirkumpolare Elemente (7,6%) sind demgegenber fr die Verhltnisse Hochasiens gut reprsentiert. Trotz der hohen Reliefenergie und der daraus resultierenden Diversitt kologischer Nischen sind Endemiten nur schwach vertreten (ca. 6,5%). Kosmopoliten (2,0%), subtropische (2,6%) und mediterrane Elemente (1,6%) bilden geringe Anteile an der Flora des Nanga Parbat. Entsprechend steiler Hangneigungen und starker klimatisch-kologischer Gradienten ist eine deutliche Hhenzonierung der Flora und Vegetation charakteristisch. Vegetationszonen und -formationen reichen von trocken-subtropischen Wsten des Indus-Talbodens (colline Stufe 1100-2000 m) ber Steppen- und Waldformationen (submontan: 2000-2700 m, montan: 2700-3400 m) bis zu den oberen Waldgrenzbereichen, Gebschen, Zwerggestruchen, Matten, offenen Schutt- und Felshngen (subalpin 3400-3900 m, alpin 3900-4500 m, subnival 4500-5300 m) an der oberen Grenze der Gefpflanzen-Vorkommen. Die Ergebnisse quantifizieren die altitudinalen Aspekte der Artendiversitt, die bei 2500-3800 m Meereshhe ein ausgeprgtes Maximum erreicht. Verbreitungs- und Diversittsmuster werden im Zusammenhang mit den landschaftskologischen Bedingungen diskutiert. Ein deutlicher Sprung in der Artendiversitt bei ca. 2300 m Meereshhe scheint mit Relief- und Klimabedingungen korreliert. Aufgrund der relativ kurzen Bearbeitungsdauer ergibt das floristische Material keine erkennbaren Hinweise auf rezente anthropogene Vernderungen. Die vorliegende Datenbasis kann jedoch als Grundlage fr knftige Untersuchungen ber die Florendynamik dienen. Fotovergleiche dokumentieren aber bereits deutliche Umweltvernderungen whrend des kurzen Zeitraums der letzten 60 Jahre. In diesem Zusammenhang werden der steigende anthropogene Einflu auf die natrlichen Ressourcen und mgliche Zukunftsperspektiven diskutiert. 
24365189|Die sterreichischen Bundesgrten und ihre Pflanzensammlungen positionieren sich in der Gartendenkmalpflege und der grtnerischen Handwerkskunst im Artenschutz, in der ffentlichkeit und mit ihrer wirtschaftlichen Bedeutung. The Austrian Federal Gardens and their plant collections possess a special position due to their role in the maintenance of garden monuments, in garden art, in the public awarness, and as economic entities.
10.2307/20358182|Based on field studies by the authors in March-April 2002 and March 2003, the altitudinal zonation of the woodland and forest vegetation in the moister northern part of Socotra Island is described and analysed. The phytosociological surveys along an altitudinal transect in the Haghier Mts from the coastal plain to the summit areas supplemented by surveys on the escarpments of the Hamadero and Ma'alah Plateau revealed a major divide between (semi)deciduous lowland and low montane communities (below c. 750 m) on the one hand and high montane communities at altitudes predominantly between c. 850 and 1500 m on the other hand. Differing in their substrates, climatic situation, floristic affinities and physiognomy, the communities of these two altitudinal ranges are classified in two different alliances, the low montane Crotonion socotrani and the high montane Crotonion sulcifructi all. nov., which can both be included in the new order Acridocarpo socotrani-Crotonetalia socotrani. Within the Crotonion socotrani the typical association (Crotonetum socotrani), usually heavily degraded, dominates the coastal plains and lower foothills, followed by an altitudinal form of which two associations can be distinguished. The slopes above the foothills are covered by forests with emergent Sterculia africana var. socotrana (Adenio sokotrani-Sterculietum socotranae ass. nov.), then above 500 m by a colourful forest with Boswellia ameero (Ruellio insignis-Boswellietum ameero ass. nov.). The high montane Crotonion sulcifructi includes a more widespread association, the Trichodesmo scottii-Cephalocrotonetum socotrani ass. nov., and an association particularly rich in epiphytic bryophytes, the Leucado hagghierensis-Pittosporetum viridiflorum ass. nov., which is restricted to the moistest sites.
