25622685|The genus Mimumesa Malloch from China is reviewed. A key to the species is provided. Two new species, M. melanosomatica, sp. nov. from Yunnan Province, China, and M. nonstriata, sp. nov. from Xinjiang Autonomous Region, China, are described and illustrated, and three species new to China are reported.
40983158|The phyline plant bugs belonging to the tribe Phylini in Thailand are reviewed. Sixteen species in eight genera that have hitherto been recognized are further documented. Nine species are described as new: Atractotomoidea izyaslavi, Decomia nigrissima, D. schuhi, D. taksini, Decomioides kazutakai, D. verecundus, Malaysiamiris rufobadius, Moissonia sakaerat, and Psallus buddha. Decomioides schneirlai Schuh is reported from Indochina for the first time and diagnosed. In addition, the following six new species, confirmed during examinations of related materials from the tropical and subtropical Asia, are described: Atractotomoidea insulicola (from Ryukyus, Japan), Decomia panayensis (Visayas, Philippines), Moissonia larutensis (Peninsular Malaysia), M. pardalis (Peninsular Malaysia), M. takaii (Ryukyus, Japan) and Opuna schwartzi (Peninsular Malaysia). Decomia cephalotes Poppius known only by a single male from Taiwan is recorded from the Ryukyus and diagnosed. Male and female genitalic structures are described and figured for most species. Biology and immature forms are reported in detail for Decomioides verecundus, Moissonia importunitas and M. takaii.
25622683|Many aspects of the biology and organization of Neotropical social wasps in the highlands are unknown. Polybia aequatorialis is a highland wasp of Costa Rica distributed between 1,150 and 3,200 m in altitude, and little information on this species is recorded. We investigated the size of a colony of P. aequatorialis in the Cerro de la Muerte region of Costa Rica, and studied the morphological differences between queens and workers. Measures were taken from 248 reproductive and non-reproductive females, and caste differentiation was analyzed by Discrimination Function Analysis. We did not find a highly pronounced caste distinction in P. aequatorialis, even though ANOVA showed that queens and workers differed in all morphometric measures. The morphological differences between the reproductive and non-reproductive females probably results from a developmental switch, which is a characteristic caste syndrome of Polybia. /// Muchos aspectos sobre la biologa y la organizacin social de las avispas sociales de las regiones de altura del Neotrpico son desconocidos. Polybia aequatorialis es una avispa de las regiones altas de Costa Rica que se distribuye desde los 1,150 hasta los 3,200 metros de altura. Se conoce muy poco sobre esta especie, razn por la cual el objetivo de este estudio fue investigar el tamao de una colonia de P. aequatorialis en el Cerro de la Muerte en Costa Rica, as como estudiar las diferencias morfolgicas entre reinas y obreras para determinar qu tipo de casta presentaba la colonia. Tomamos medidas de 248 hembras reproductivas y no reproductivas y la diferenciacin de castas fue analizada por medio de un Anlisis Discriminante. El tamao de la colonia se determin contando uno por uno los individuos de la colonia. No encontramos una alta distincin de castas entre los miembros de la colonia de P. aequatorialis, sin embrago el ANOVA mostr que reinas y obreras diferan en todas las medidas morfomtricas. Las diferencias morfolgicas encontradas entre las hembras reproductivas y no reproductivas son probablemente el resultado deundesarrollo en "switch" un sndrome de casta caracterstico del gnero Polybia.
25622672|The study of a carrion fauna from a forensic perspective provides insight into cadaveric succession during vertebrate decomposition and contributes to documentation of taphonomic processes. The insects associated with sea lion bones of 1290  100 years BP found in Puerto Madryn (Argentina) were examined. The recorded species were: Cochliomyia macellaria and Fannia sp. (Diptera), Dermestes maculatus and Necrobia rufipes (Coleoptera), and Tineola cf. biselliella (Lepidoptera). The succession of insect species occurred at the end of spring or the beginning of summer, on carrion exposed to the open air for approximately 50 days. Descomposition was apparently interrupted by mass wasting that buried the carcasses. /// El estudio de la fauna carroera desde una perspectiva forense permite conocer el proceso de descomposicin de los vertebrados (an en una sucesin cadavrica antigua) y contribuye con los estudios fafonmicos. En esta investigacin, fueron examinados los insectos asociados a restos de lobos marinos de 1290  100 C aos AP hallados en Puerto Madryn (Argentina). Las especies registradas fueron: Cochliomyia macellaria y Fannia sp. (Diptera), Dermestes maculatus y Necrobia rufipes (Coleoptera) y Tineola cf. biselliella (Lepidoptera). Fue determinado que la sucesin se desarroll a fines de la primavera o comienzos del verano y los restos estuvieron expuestos al aire abierto por aproximadamente 50 das, cuando la descomposicin aparentemente fue interrumpida por fenmenos de remocin en masa que enterraron los restos.
40983155|A classic "escape and radiation" coevolutionary model of host shifts is examined in moths of the genus Depressaria Haworth 1811 that feed on plants of varied toxicity. A phylogeny is constructed using morphological data analyzed under the parsimony criterion, the first modern phylogeny of the subfamily that includes New World and Old World species. The results of this analysis suggest that Depressaria is monophyletic, as are historical species groups of Depressaria. Patterns of host-plant usage do not support an escape and radiation model but rather suggest that feeding on plants containing toxic furanocoumarins may be the ancestral conditions for Depressaria. Thus, a model of escape from control and colonization of more toxic hosts does not apply above the species level. Other phylogenetic results indicate Himmacia Clarke 1941 may be a basal lineage of Depressariinae and Semioscopis Hbner 1825 is not a member of this subfamily. In spite of some apparently very specialized larval features, we conclude that Hasenfussia Fetz 1994 is a member of Depressaria.
25622671|Aoplonema lopidium sp. nov. is described from the Mexican states of Guerrero and Oaxaca, representing the first records of this genus from mainland Mexico. A summary of the hypothesized phylogenetic species relationship is (A. princeps (A. lopidium (A. rubrum + A. nigrum))). A biogeographical analysis proposes that the Sierra Madre del Sur is the sister area to the rest of the areas occupied by the other species of Aoplonema.
41406201|The Nearctic genus Coquillettia Uhler is revised and moved to the tribe Phylini; 14 new species are described for a total of 29 valid species. The following six new synonyms are proposed (senior synonym first): Coquillettia albiclava Knight = C. aquila Bliven and C. saxetana Bliven, C, foxi Van Duzee = C. terrosa Bliven, C.insignis Uhler = C. numata Bliven and C. uhleri Van Duzee, and C. mimetica Osborn = C. mimetica floridana Knight.Coquillettia amoenus (Uhler) is treated as a nomen dubium. A lectotype is designated for C. mimetica Osborn. The 14 new species described within Coquillettia are: concava, gigantea, impluviata, lactea, obscura, pergrandis, perplexabilis, polhemorum, pseudoattica, schuhi, schwartzi, thomasi, venusta, and vicina. Two new genera, Leutiola and Ticua, are described within the Phylini to accommodate species previously placed in Coquillettia. Coquillettia ajo Knight is transferred to Leutiola where C. virescens Knight is proposed as a junior synonym of L. ajo. Two new species are described within Leutiola: L. mapa and L. mexicana. Coquillettia granulata Knight is transferred to Ticua. Coquillettia laticeps is proposed as stat. nov. Diagnoses, descriptions, color digital habitus photographs, and illustrations of male genitalia are provided for all species. Female genitalic illustrations are included for selected species of each genus. Scanning micrographs of selected structures are presented to document diagnostic characters of the genera. Maps and label data are integrated to portray the distributions of all included species. Keys are presented for the genera and males of all species.
25622673|Characters of adult morphology, male genitalia, and nest architecture are combined in a cladistic analysis of the neotropical paper wasp genus Synoeca. The single resulting cladogram supports the monophyly of genus. The species are related as follows: S. chalibea + (S. virginea + (S. septentrionalis + (S. surinama + S. cyanea))). A new identification key is also presented.
25622684|Two new species are described, Delia subatrifrons Xue and Du n. sp., and Delia fimbrifascia Xue and Du n. sp. A revised D. alaba subsection of the D. frontella section is studied and a key to this subsection is included.
25622679|We present the first cladistic analysis of Argia species, focusing on those occurring in North America north of Mexico. Our analysis is based on mitochondrial 16S rDNA and morphological characters of both sexes of adults and immatures. We reexamine classical work on Argia taxonomy and phylogeny. Our results agree considerably with previous hypotheses based morphology in an absence of phylogenetic analysis, and thus our work represents and independent test of these previous hypotheses. Argia is recovered as monophyletic. The clade composed of A. funcki plus A. lugens is basal among the species studied here. The species A. fumipennis, including the three subspecies, appears to be a paraphyletic assemblage, and thus may warrant being considered separate species as originally described. The feasibility of producing a thorough phylogenetic analysis of the entire genus using multiple sources of data is discussed.
40983144|Thirty species in 13 genera of plant bugs (Phylinae: Phylini) from Nepal are revised in a first attempt to comprehensively clarify the fauna from this country. Five new genera, Alnopsallus, Aplagiognathus, Leucophylus, Psallomorpha and Zanchiophylus, are proposed. The following 21 species are described as new: Alnopsallus godawari, Al. jiriensis, Aplagiognathus albopilosus, Atractotomoidea monticola, At. orientalis, Campylomma buddlejae, C. chitwanense, Decomia bhaktapurana, Europiella langtangensis, E. puspae, Leucophylus variegatus, Moissonia schuhi, M. terai, Psallomorpha alba, P. castanopsis, P. kathmandu, P. quercicola, P. tenella, P. tomokunii, Rubrocuneocoris nigriceps, and Zanchiophylus hyaloviridis. Nine described species of the genera Badezorus, Campylomma, Decomia, Opuna, and Moissonia are reported from Nepal for the first time and are diagnosed. Opuna pallidula Yasunaga is proposed as a junior synonym of Moissonia importunitas (Distant). Digital photographic images of live individuals and detailed male genitalic figures are presented for most species. Female genitalic structures, which have been insufficiently employed for previous phyline classification, are also described and illustrated for 20 species. Zoogeography and characteristics of the Nepalese phyline fauna are also discussed. Host plants are confirmed for 12 species.
40983146|The South American genus Bacillometra as previously interpreted does not represent a monophyletic assemblage, thus Bacillometroides n. gen. is proposed to hold all species previously contained in this genus with the exception of B. ventralis Esaki, the type species of Bacillometra. The following new combinations are proposed: Bacillometra fuallagana Drake, 1956 = Bacillometroides fuallagana (Drake); Bacillometra mulfordi (Hungerford, 1927) = Bacillometroides mulfordi (Hungerford); Bacillometra woytkowskii Hungerford, 1935 = Bacillometroides woytkowskii (Hungerford). Figures are provided of the dorsal habitus for Bacillometra ventralis and Bacillometroides woytkowskii, and a distribution map is provided for all species in both genera.
40983147|A new species of Neotermes, N. gnathoferrum, is described based on soldiers, imagoes, queens and workers. Neotermes gnathoferrum is one of three Fijian species of Neotermes, along with N. papua and N. samoanus, known to infest mahogany as well as other economically important native trees. A diagnostic key is provided to distinguish these species. The lectotype and paralectotypes for Neotermes papua are also designated here.
25622680|The nymphs of eastern North American stonefly genus Cultus are described. Previous misidentifications and putative nymphal descriptions are reviewed. A key separating the late instar nymphs is also provided.
41406192|Most molecular phylogenetic studies of beetles (order Coleoptera) using 18S rDNA have recovered the suborders Adephaga and Polyphaga as sister groups, together sister to the suborders Myxophaga and Archostemata, with Archostemata alone or in combination with Myxophaga as the closest relative of all other beetles. Analyses of data from other genes have recovered alternative arrangements. Estimated subordinal divergence times based on analyses of DNA sequence data and fossil calibrations range from ~ 285-266 million years ago (Ma), with most extant families estimated to have originated in the Jurassic. However, timing and patterns of ecological and taxonomic diversification remain uncertain for most beetle groups primarily due to limited gene and nucleotide sampling, missing data, and a corresponding lack of well-supported resolution. Consequently, the nature and degree to which events in earth's history (e. g., the diversification and rise of angiosperms to ecological dominance) have influenced the success of Coleoptera remains unclear. Nevertheless, the phylogeny of beetles is being revealed via molecular studies with large taxon and gene samples, presenting renewed and novel opportunities for the study of beetle macroevolution.
41406193|Thirty-two new species in the plant bug genus Orthotylus are described from the Hawaiian Islands. The new species and their host plant associations are as follows: O. metrosideropsis n. sp., from Oahu, on Metrosideros polymorpha; O. ohia n. sp., from Oahu, on Metrosideros polymorpha; O. olapa n. sp., from Oahu, on Cheirodendron trigynum; O. perrotteticola n. sp., from Molokai, on Perrottetia sandwicensis; O. perrottetiopsis n. sp., from Oahu, on Perrottetia sandwicensis; O. dubautiae n. sp., from Kauai, on Dubautia raillardiodes; O. dubauticola n. sp., from Kauai, on Dubautia microcephala; O. pisoniacola n. sp., from Kauai, on Pisonia sandwicensis; O. elaeocarpi n. sp., from Kauai, on Eleocarpus bifidus; O. clermontiopsis n. sp., from Kauai, on Clermontia fauriei; O. pipturicola n. sp., from Kauai, on Pipturus albidus; O. pipturiphila n. sp., from Molokai, on Pipturus albidus; O. antidesmoides n. sp., from Molokai, on Antidesma platyphyllum; O. diospyrivorus n. sp., from Lanai, on Diospyros sandwicensis; O. coprosmaphagus n. sp., from Kauai, on Coprosma waimeae and Coprosma kauaiensis; O. coprosmivorus n. sp., from Lanai, on Coprosma ochracea; O. manonophila n. sp., from Kauai, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. manonovorus n. sp., from Lanai, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. manono n. sp., from Molokai, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. manonocola n. sp., from Molokai, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. manonophagus n. sp., from Molokai, on Hedyotis acuminata; O.neopsychotriopsis n. sp., from Lanai, on Psychotria mariniana; O. neopsychotricus n. sp., from Maui, on Psychotria mariniana; O. kopikocola n. sp., from Kauai, on Psychotria hexandra; O. kopikovorus n. sp., from Kauai, on Psychotria mauiensis; O. kopikopsis n. sp., from Lanai, on Psychotria mariniana; O. kopikoides n. sp., from Molokai, on Psychotria mariniana; O. kopikophila n. sp., from Maui, on Psychotria mariniana; O. kiko n. sp., from Maui, on Psychotria mariniana; O. melicopoides n. sp., from Oahu, on Melicope oahuensis. Dorsal habitus photographs, figures of the male genitalic structures, and distribution maps are provided for all the above species. New distribution records are also provided for O. metrosideri Polhemus; O. pipturoides Polhemus; O. pisoniopsis Polhemus; O.clermontioides Polhemus; O. kanakanus (Kirkaldy); O. kassandra Kirkaldy; O. kassandropsis Polhemus; O. coprosmicola Polhemus; O. kopiko Polhemus; and O. neopsychotrioides Polhemus. The name Orthotylus sophoricola D. Polhemus is proposed as a replacement for Orthotylus sophorae Polhemus 2003, which due to a lapsus has proven to be a primary homonym of Orthotylus sophorae Josifov 1976. A revised checklist of Hawaiian Orthotylus species, with their host plants and island distributions, is also provided.
25622669|New genera and species of Phylini (Heteroptera: Miridae: Phylinae) are described from Mexico and the western United States and two new combinations are created. Roburocoris n. gen. accommodates Psallus maculosus Knight, 1925 and three new species. The four species have a wide distribution in the southwestern United States and Mexico for the most part and are collected on various species of Quercus (Fagaceae). Viscacoris n. gen. is created for Plagiognathus phoradendronae Knight, 1929 and comprises four species from Mexico and the southwestern United States. The four species are recorded from mistletoe (Viscaceae).
41406199|New synonymies are: Polybia diguetana du Buysson, 1905, = Polybia plebeja de Saussure, 1867; Polybia laboriosa de Saussure, 1854, and Protopolybia rugulosa Ducke, 1907, = Polistes minutissima Spinola, 1851; Mischocyttarus immarginatus Richards, 1940, = Mischocyttarus rufidens (de Saussure, 1854). Revised synonymies are: Polybia minutissima de Saussure, 1854, and Polybia binominata Schulz, 1906, = Polistes minutissima Spinola, 1851; Protopolybia rugulosa Ducke, 1907, = Polybia laboriosa de Saussure, 1854. A new combination is: Parancistrocerus fasciculatus (de Saussure).
41406200|As molecular clock methods become more widely used it has become apparent that careful consideration of fossil minimum calibrations is essential. Not only is it necessary to be certain of the taxonomic identity of the fossils and correct placement within the phylogenetic tree, recent studies have suggested that when multiple fossils are available consideration of conflict among fossils must also be taken into account. In this study we investigate whether any of the 43 fossils used by Moreau, et al. (2006) are "inconsistent" and how this affects the results of molecular clock dating analyses and inferred diversification patterns. After considering each of the 43 fossils in turn, following the methods of Near and colleagues (Near & Sanderson, 2004; Near et al., 2005), we found that five fossils are considered to be "inconsistent." After removing these fossils and reanalyzing the data, we found that excluding these minimum age fossil calibration points did not have a considerable effect on the results. Comparing lineages-through-time plots demonstrate that not only are similar ages recovered, but also that the previously inferred significant shift in diversification rates within the ant phylogeny is not an artifact of the "inconsistent" fossils. These findings suggest that all available fossil information should be included in molecular clock analyses.
41406190|Four fossil taxa of earliest Holometabola recently were identified based on a variety of determinative evidence and assigned to a stem-group or a basal lineage within a modern order. One consequence of these new discoveries is that the divergence date between the Holometabola and its sister clade has been set earlier than previously thought on the basis of fossils or molecular phylogenetic evidence. This new date provides a minimal calibration date pegged to the Early Carboniferous-Late Carboniferous boundary, and approximates an absolute date of 318 million years. The four taxa provide new insights into the life habits, particularly feeding habits, of early holometabolan larvae. Additionally, they require an explanation of why there is an 80 million year lag between the origin and the taxonomic dominance of this profound developmental innovation in early terrestrial ecosystems. An earlier lead time is likely present for these earliest holometabolan fossils, which can be extrapolated conservatively to the Late Mississippian, 328 to 318 million years ago. Consequently, a focused investigation on earlier, Late Mississippian strata to search for ancestral holometabolan insects is imperative.
40983145|Schuhistes, a new genus of Leucophoropterini (Heteroptera: Miridae: Phylinae) is described from South Africa to accommodate two new species, Schuhistes lyciae and Schuhistes lekkersingia. Diagnoses, digital habitus images, illustrations of male and female genitalic structures, and detailed locality data are provided. Host data, scanning micrographs of diagnostic morphological structures - the head, vestiture, scent-gland evaporatory area, gonopore, and pretarsus - are included for both species.
40983156|Thaumatomyrmex is a rarely collected ponerine genus in which the mandibles are armed with long spine-like teeth. We provide the first description of the gyne for the genus. The gyne is similar to the worker in having the same type of tooth morphology, color and pilosity, but differs in having mesosomal development associated with flight. The specimen still possesses the wing bases.
40983157|Myrmecoroides Gross is revised and a new diagnosis is provided for the genus. The two previously recognized species, M. carinatus Gross and M. grossi Carvalho, are redescribed. Three new species are described: M.cassowary, M. monteithi, and M. rufescens. The male and female genitalia are documented and illustrated where specimens of each gender were available. Phylogenetic analysis of the species is given. The common name, Hatchet Head Plant Bug, is introduced for the genus, in recognition of the greatly bicompressed head.
40983159|One new species of the Oriental planthopper genus Varma Distant (1906) (Hemiptera: Fulgoroidea: Tropiduchidae), V. serrata Men & Qin, sp. nov. (southern China: Yunnan) is described and illustrated. A checklist of known species of the genus Varma along with a key to known species are provided. The type specimens of the new species are deposited in the Entomological Museum, Northwest A & F University, Yangling, Shaanxi Province, China (NWAFU).
40983160|Weeping lovegrass (Eragrostis curvula (Schrad.) Nees; Poaceae), an African species planted in the southern United States for erosion control and forage, has been colonized by a diversity of native planthoppers. Collecting data and previously recorded host plants are provided for 26 species of Fulgoroidea in 12 genera and 5 families; nymphs of 13 fulgoroid species were observed. New state records are given for 16 planthopper species; 15 planthopper species are considered little-known or rarely collected.
40983148|The egg-laying behavior of female insects could directly benefit the mother, her offspring, or a combination of both. Periodical cicada (Magicicada septendecim (L.)) females oviposit in twigs in the forest canopy, and newly hatched nymphs fall to the ground, where they spend 17 years feeding on tree roots. If nymph dispersal from their mother's oviposition site is limited, then female oviposition site selection could influence offspring fitness and survival. Here, we show that there is no correlation between egg-nest density in the forest canopy and nymph density directly below. Although the extent of nymph post-hatching dispersal remains unknown, our findings cast doubt on direct benefits to offspring as an explanation for female oviposition site choice.
41406198|A new species of the paper wasp genus Metapolybia Ducke is described from South America.
25622670|Eminoculus Schuh is revised and an updated diagnosis is presented for the genus. Seven species are recognized, five of which are described as new. Diagnoses, digital habitus photographs, illustrations of male and female genitalic structures, keys to both the males and females, and detailed locality are provided. Scanning micrographs of diagnostic morphological structuresthe head, pronotum, scent-gland evaporatory area, vestiture, and pretarsusare included for four species. A phylogenetic analysis is presented, using the South African species Lasiolabopella capeneri Schuh and the Nearctic Chlamydatus keltoni Schuh and Schwartz as outgroups. Host data are presented for 6 species, and patterns of host association with the "mesem" clade of the Aizoaceae are discussed.
25622682|The first key to the Oriental species of the genus is provided. One new species, Lyroda tridentata from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. L. salai Giner Mar is first recorded from China.
40983149|We searched for and collected data on a phenomenon known as ladybug washups, in which large numbers of coccinellids aggregate on the shores of major bodies of water. Our field season lasted from 5/23/2008 until 8/12/2008 in the Finger Lakes Region of New York, United States. Ladybug diversity and survival at washups, as well as washup size and frequency were studied to help understand why these events occur. Lab tests were conducted to determine how long ladybugs can survive afloat. This information was used to estimate the duration of floating in the washups we observed. The frequency, composition, and duration of washups in the Finger Lakes support the hypothesis that a weather condition known as a lake breeze forces coccinellids to fall into the water. These animals subsequently arrive on shore in large numbers. This study adds three new species to the growing list of coccinellids affected by this phenomenon.
41406191|As molecular clock methods become more widely used it has become apparent that careful consideration of fossil minimum calibrations is essential. Not only is it necessary to be certain of the taxonomic identity of the fossils and correct placement within the phylogenetic tree, recent studies have suggested that when multiple fossils are available consideration of whether any of the fossils are in conflict must also be taken into account. In this study we investigate whether any of the 43 fossils used by Moreau, et al. (2006) are "inconsistent" and how this affects the results of molecular clock dating analyses and inferred diversification patterns. After considering each of the 43 fossils in turn, following the methods of Near and colleagues (Near and Sanderson, 2004; Near et al., 2005), we found that five fossils are considered to be "inconsistent." After removing these fossils and reanalyzing the data, we found that excluding these minimum age fossil calibration points did not have a significant effect on the results. Comparing lineage-through-time plots demonstrate that not only are similar ages recovered, but also that the significant shift in diversification rates within the ant phylogeny is not an artifact of the "inconsistent" fossils. These findings suggest that all available fossil information should be included in molecular clock analyses.
25622681|The Neotropical genus Carvalhomiris Maldonado and Ferreira, 1971, is revised. Carvalhomiris brachypterus Maldonado and Ferreira, 1971, its type species, is redescribed and two species are described as new, C. bifurcatus sp. nov. from Ecuador, and C. truncatus sp. nov. from Colombia. Selected external morphological structures of the head, pronotum, metathoracic scent gland efferent area, pretarsus, and egg are documented with scanning electron micrographs for the two new species. Dorsal habitus photographs of macropterous and brachypterous specimens illustrating color variation, line drawings of male and female genitalia of all species, and a key to adults of the species are provided. The potential relationships of Carvalhomiris within Orthotylini are discussed, the genus now being placed in the Zanchius group.
25622674|At two locations in central New York, including the Montezuma National Wildlife Refuge, Isodontia mexicana females nested in 8 and 9 mm diameter trap nests. As is typical for Isodontia, partitions and plugs in the nests were constructed using fragments of grass stems, and the outermost portion of the final nest plug consisted of a tuft of grass leaves that extended as far as 7 cm beyond the nest entrance. The vast majority of prey were adult tree crickets (Gryllidae: Oecanthinae; Oecanthus), although nymphal tree crickets and katydids (Tettigoniidae: Conocephalinae) also occurred among provisions. The sex ratio of adult tree cricket prey was strongly female-biased. Nest associates included three other nest-provisioning aculeates, along with Psocoptera, spiders, ants, Coelioxys sp. (Megachilidae), and bombyliid, sarcophagid, and phorid flies. The overall sex ratio of I. mexicana offspring did not differ from unity, but the sex of offspring in any given cell was related to the position of the cell and the total number of cells in a nest. As females added cells to the linear sequence in each nest, new cells were increasingly likely to house sons, especially in nests with fewer cells. Surprisingly, given results of previous studies, the sex of an offspring was unrelated to nest tunnel diameter.
41406197|Study of the male genitalia shows that Dolichovespula albida (Sladen) is not conspecific with D.norwegica (Fabricius).
