23049824|The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is the primary federal agency responsible for conserving wild animals in the United States. Yet it has attracted remarkably little attention from environmental historians. Through the regulations it enforces and the refuges it manages, the agency has had a profound impact on the nation's wildlife. The wildlife history of the United States, particularly in the twentieth century, is intertwined with the story of this agency.
25473032|This essay is about one of the most extraordinary natural events in early American history, the great "Dark Day" of May 19, 1780. On that morning a preternatural gloom settled upon the New England landscape, and by noon the sun had been all but blotted from the sky. Using accounts drawn from contemporary diaries, journals, newspapers, broadsides, and other sources, this essay reconstructs the events of the Dark Day and explores the manifold ways-from theological speculation to amateur scientific inquiry-in which New Englanders sought to explain and rationalize the sudden darkness.
40608503|The out-of-control global carbon cycle is driven not only by greenhouse gas emissions from fossil-fuel combustion but also from accelerated carbon cycling through human-impacted ecosystems. Here I estimate that forests in Utah are currently accumulating atmospheric carbon in biomass, detritus, and soil largely in response to 150 years of domestic livestock grazing, altered fire regimes, and logging. I attribute forest-carbon accumulation, which removes carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, to expanding pin and juniper woodlands and to timberlands regrowing following historical logging. Despite the accumulation of carbon in Utah's forests, this forestcarbon sink compensates for at most 25 percent of statewide greenhouse gas emissions and more likely between 10 percent to 15 percent. This article emphasizes the importance of interdisciplinary study of the global carbon cycle and specifically encourages environmental historians to help natural scientists explore how historical land uses exert long-lasting influence on the atmosphere's concentrations of greenhouse gases.
23049826|Compared to the endangered animals described in Peter Matthiessen's Wildlife in America, the shark that attacked and consumed Robert Pamperin in June 1959 off La Jolla, California, suggests that a creature's silence did not always mean vulnerability or passivity within human histories. To help understand why this shark targeted Pamperin and the more general question of why these animals sometimes attack humans, scientists created the Shark Attack File (SAF) to document as many historical and contemporary shark attacks as possible into legible data sets. To protect people from sharks, the SAF functioned as a model to help translate and predict sharks' behaviors but ultimately privileged environmental conditions and human vulnerability over the possibility of animal agency. Since 1959, many scholars in animal studies have tried to complicate earlier declensionist narratives that portrayed wild animals as passive entities into agents-in-the-world.
23049818|This article targets the political autobiography of David Crockett to uncover the connections between wild animals, African-American slaves, and folksy white power in Jacksonian America. Coleman argues that just as you cannot underestimate the havoc Euro-Americans wreaked on some North American wildlife populations, you cannot oversimplify the causes or the meanings of this violence. Crockett killed bearslots of bears. But he also created a persona that capitalized on its proximity to vermin animals and bound humans. To win elections, he needed to be perceived as an outsider. His close associations with black bears and black slaves helped marginalize and empower him.
25473301|Joachim Radkau is one of Europe's best-known environmental historians. Since becoming an environmental historian avant la lettre in the 1970s, he has published widely on a broad array of topics. In this interview, he talks about the development of his interests, afterthoughts on his books, unintended ventures into politics, and the development of the scholarly community in Germany and Europe. This year, Cambridge University Press published an English edition of his world environmental history, "Nature and Power." Radkau is due to retire from Bielefeld University next year.
25473329|This article examines the First Brazilian Conference on Nature Protection-held in Rio de Janeiro, in 1934, a founding event of the Brazilian environmental movement-in terms of science, policy, and activism. It was called by a small group of natural scientists and associates, responsible for the first modern and systematic statements about the protection of the Brazilian natural heritage. All but forgotten nowadays, the event is examined in several dimensions, based on the proceedings edited by Alberto Jos Sampaio, Brazil's leading botanist at the time. The article argues that the conference provided a sample of the existing modes of environmental concern and that it brought together the most relevant individuals and organizations. It pays attention to a recurrent theme of the need to protect Brazil's natural endowment as a means to provide a basis for the construction of a new, modern Brazilian national identity. Special attention is given to the breadth of environmental concerns addressed in the meeting, to the convergence of different outlooks and proposals, and to the influence of relevant non-Brazilian issues, policies, and organizations. Utilitarian and aesthetic reasons for protecting nature converged toward the construction of a shared project of national economic power, scientific research, and cultural fulfillment.
25473328|The years between the two World Wars were a vital period in the global diffusion and the transnational modification and multiplication of the national park idea. It was during these decades that the American national park system took its distinct shape and the first national parks in Europe were established. At the same time, the science of ecology and ecological attitudes achieved prominence and offered a challenge as well as a new scientific underpinning of the national park idea on both sides of the Atlantic. The implementation of ecological ideas in national park policies, however, varied considerably from place to place. While ecological thinking failed to exert a lasting influence on the development of American national parks before World War II, it was of higher significance in Europe. The Swiss National Park stood out as a nature reserve extensively shaped by scientific theories and practices. The investigation of the intersection of science and national parks in a transatlantic perspective reveals that these variations essentially stemmed from a different role of science and scientists both in the establishment and administration of national parks and in their public justification.
25764490|Donald J. Pisani retired this past spring after twenty years as the Merrick Chair in Western American History at the University of Oklahoma, thirteen years at Texas A&M University, and one year at San Diego State. Known as one of the foremost water policy historians of the American West and a devoted scholar of California history, Pisani holds the distinction of being the only person to have served as president of both the American Society for Environmental History (19971999) and the Agricultural History Society (20062007). Pisani's University of Oklahoma colleague Sterling Evans visited with him about his career in environmental history and his thoughts on the history and future of the field.
25473065|Giant insects, from the ants of "Them!" to the locusts in Beginning of the End, featured prominently in Hollywood's postwar science fiction boom. Critics and historians have invariably interpreted these cinematic big bugs as symbolic manifestations of Cold War era anxieties, including nuclear fear, concern over communist infiltration, ambivalence about science and technocratic authority, and repressed Freudian impulses. This essay argues that Hollywood's mammoth arthropods should be taken more literally, less as metaphors than as insects, and that the big bug genre should be analyzed in the context of actual fears of insect invasion and growing misgivings about the safety and effectiveness of modern insecticides in 1950s and early 1960s America. In movies like "Them!", worries about real-life insects on the loose, notably gypsy moths and imported fire ants, and uneasiness about pesticides like DDT were refracted through a cultural lens colored by superpower rivalries, nuclear proliferation, and a wide range of social tensions.
25764489|In this article I examine three passages of law from early imperial China and argue that their purpose was conservation. I concentrate particularly on one recently discovered set of monthly ordinances, which systematically protected young animals and birds from over-hunting and limited hunting by fire and other activities with the goal of sustainable use. This demonstrates that people in early imperial China were neither unaware of nor indifferent to environmental concerns. However, this sort of regulation did not bring about effective environmental protection in part because limitations in scientific knowledge led to statutes that could not achieve the desired result.
25473166|This article examines the environmental and social impacts of damming the Peace River in northern British Columbia as a way of exploring the challenges associated with doing environmental justice. It argues that environmental justice is not simply a matter of rectifying the distribution of environmental harms and benefits. Instead, doing environmental justice requires coming to terms with the different scales at which environmental change is apprehended and comprehended; scales that have sensual, spatial, and temporal dimensions.
23049854|In the past thirty years, historians have examined many aspects of England's western expansion in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries; however, the environmental history of the English Atlantic has not been extensively studied. This essay examines how English travel writers and colonial propagandists described nature in their Old World colony in Ireland and their New World project in Virginia. These documents provided little accurate information about the physical environment and changes settlers made to it. Nonetheless, they suggest that English ideas about environment were crucial to plantation projects in Ireland and North America. By describing the Irish and Virginian environments, these writers translated foreign and frightening places into terms familiar to English readers from husbandry manuals and conveyed the profits awaiting competent husbands in the new lands. From the first attempt at North American settler colonialism in Roanoke in the 1580s until the Algonquians killed 347 English settlers in 1622, writers used different rhetoric to describe the Irish and Virginian landscapes. In the wake of the so-called massacre, the image of Virginia came to more closely resemble Ireland, following the shift to more militaristic colonialism and increasingly negative views about the Algonquians that followed this violence. The similarity of this rhetoric suggests that after Anglo-Algonquian relations deteriorated, Ireland increasingly served as a model for Virginia.
20749643|As new environmental programs, organizations, and laws proliferated in the late 1960s and 1970s, U.S. President Richard Nixon began using environmental cooperation as part of his foreign policy. But his decision to pair global environmental action with the most powerful military alliance in historyNATOpuzzled nearly everyone, including the NATO allies. Recently scholars have pointed out the role of the Nixon administration in inaugurating "environmental diplomacy," raising the status of environmental accords and winning approbation for global environmental leadership. But most studies have glossed over the role of NATO as Nixon's principal vehicle for East-West cooperation, and have neglected entirely the views, resistance, and downright hostility of the allies to the American style of environmental leadership. In presenting these views, this essay provides a counterweight to existing studies on global environmental action in the years leading up to the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in 1972. The essay shows how Nixon's use of NATO deepened political animosities between East and West, and between North and South, hastening the bloc-to-bloc politicization of global environmental issues.
25473194|The destruction of the nineteenth-century Atlantic halibut fishery occurred in the space of a few decades and without industrial fishing methods. Between the 1840s and the 1880s, halibut moved from by-catch to marketable product. This change from negative commodification to positive commodification resulted from increased immigration, technological advances, changing consumer tastes, and halibut's natural history. Once almost infinitely abundant, commercial value and growing markets led to enthusiastic fishing efforts mid-nineteenth century. Market demand influenced both human behaviors and ecosystems. A series of localized depletions became the commercial extinction of halibut in the northwest Atlantic. The nineteenth-century Atlantic halibut fishery demonstrates how species once considered by-catch can be pushed to commercial extinction.
25473193|Rates of intersexuality, reproductive cancers, and infertility appear to be increasing. Many researchers suspect that a key role is played by endocrine disruptors-the industrial pollutants that mimic hormones and disrupt the endocrine systems that shape sexual development. Yet, for all the concern raised by a flood of experimental research showing endocrine disruption in animals and epidemiological studies suggesting effects on human reproduction, the U.S. government has essentially failed to regulate these chemicals, retreating from a precautionary principle that would require caution in the use of potentially toxic chemicals. Debates in the 1930s and 1940s over the regulation of diethylstilbestrol (DES), the first synthetic estrogen and the first chemical known to act as an endocrine disruptor, show how political pressures, scientific uncertainty, and changing conceptual models of gender and health led to this retreat from precaution.
25473262|In the decades around 1900, native-born Americans and immigrants fought a variety of battles about environmental issues. Those battles had important consequences. The critique of immigrants also reveals that native-born Americans had more complicated views about nature than environmental historians have acknowledged. Though a back-to-nature impulse was a defining characteristic of the Progressive Era, the complaints about immigrants make clear that some forms of closeness to nature made many Americans deeply uncomfortable.
25473134|This essay examines eastern white pine (Pinus strobus L.) removal and recovery on the Bad River Reservation of northern Wisconsin. A key species in the environmental history of the Great Lakes region, white pine has greatly declined as a forest component since Euro-American settlement. Forests eventually did regenerate on much of the cut-over area, but their composition is quite different than the earlier forests, with aspen and other hardwoods dominating, rather than conifers. This interdisciplinary study examines biophysical, social, and political processes that influenced the loss of white pine. We find that on the Bad River Reservation, as across much of the Great Lakes region, the loss of white pine was not a result of the lumber era alone. Changing forest management goals, officials' projections of forest economic values, financial and technical resources available to managers, the political influence of paper companies, and shifts in land ownership composition all played a role in shaping the forests that returned on the reservation.
40608542|Camping began in the nineteenth century as an elite form of pilgrimage to the wild, but the arrival of inexpensive automobiles in the early twentieth century greatly expanded camping's social diversity. The change was not universally embraced, especially when African Americans were involved, and the issue came to a head during the 1930s after two racially segregated national parks were opened in southern states. As complaints flowed in, William J. Trent, Jr., became adviser for Negro affairs to Interior Secretary Harold L. Ickes. He had no special interest in the outdoors or national parks, but Trent championed increased African American access to the parks and an end to discrimination in them. NPS leadership resisted Trent's efforts until Secretary Ickes ordered them to create one nonsegregated demonstration area in Shenandoah National Park in 1939. The policy was extended to other areas in 1941 and the next year, with World War II shifting into high gear, campground and other forms of segregation were ended throughout the park system.
25473038|In this inaugural interview in what is to be an on-going feature, we felt it fitting to talk with Hal Rothman, long-time editor of this journal and its predecessor Environmental History Review. Most readers will be well-acquainted with at least some of Hal's work. The length of his bibliography is a testament to his energy and enthusiasm and to his enormous contribution to the field of environmental history. It also is worth noting the many publications and interviews aimed at a lay audience: Rothman is an inspiring example of a true public scholar, an academic who has been determined to take the riches of our field to a wider audience.
23049856|To raise Thanksgiving turkeys, nineteenth-century farmwomen crossed wild and domestic birds. Today, this custom is largely forgotten, leading many writers to claim that domestic turkeys, the ones purchased every year from supermarkets, are not domesticated from the wild turkey common to the eastern United States but are descended entirely from a Mexican subspecies traded throughout the early modern Atlantic world. By showing that domestic turkeys are, indeed, descended primarily from the eastern wild turkey, this essay restores awareness of the environmental knowledge held by nineteenth-century farmwomen. It also traces how that loss of memory occurred through two channels: the development of twentieth-century wildlife conservation and the simultaneous growth of poultry agribusiness. Neither placed significant value on the knowledge of the farmwomen who preceded them in raising turkeys. The essay concludes by suggesting implications for today's heritage turkeys and the conservation of agricultural biodiversity.
20749672|This article uses the history of bovine epizootics in eighteenth-century Venice to make three interrelated claims about the place of early modern Europe in environmental history. First, that the sudden appearance of severe and recurring zoonotic diseases in northern Italy is a symptom of a much larger shift in European agrarian systems and nutritional habits, and that new markets for beef cattle were springing up in Italy and elsewhere in western Europe. Second, that the agrarian revolution of the eighteenth century was in part the result of a heretofore ignored shifting of environmental costs from western Europe to central Europe. By raising large numbers of beef cattle on the Hungarian plain, Italians and other western Europeans were able to access unprecedented supplies of animal protein without sacrificing any arable land. Third, that the emergence of widespread epizootics in eighteenth-century Europe should force environmental historians to reconsider the ways in which we treat early modern European forms of agriculture, pastoralism, and environmental organization as normative. Rapid and devastating environmental change generated by new biological encounters occurred within Europe itself and not only as a result of European expansion into other parts of the globe.
40608469|Latin American environmental history has traditionally focused on three categories of research: colonialism, capitalism, and conservation. It has also emphasized tragic tales of resource extraction and environmental destruction, primarily at the hands of imperial powers. Though important issues, these stories of degradation and exploitation also constrain the historiography. To broaden the field and push its theoretical grounding in new directions, this essay analyzes environmental history research conducted by nonhistorians. It highlights scholarship in several areas, including the history of natural sciences, cultural landscapes, environmental narratives, nature consumption, disasters, and social history. More dialogue across scholarly disciplines can help historians of Latin America reconceptualize the meaning of "nature," blur nature-culture boundaries, and integrate environmental history with the region's broader historiography.
25473031|Hugh Raup's "Sanderson's Farm" essay is remembered for its vivid account of New England land use history, illustrated by the famous Harvard Forest dioramas. But Raup also used that history to argue that natural resource conservation (particularly as attempted at Harvard Forest itself) had proven a failure, because it assumed economic and ecological stability that was naive and untenable. This article reexamines the history of New England farming and forests, and explores ways in which the current understanding of that history and its implications have been used at Harvard Forest to support a renewed call for wide scale land conservation.
3985740|Until 1803, the island of Tasmania was one of the rare places of human habitation where the dog was unknown. First introduced when British colonists established a penal settlement there, the dog not only completely transformed Aboriginal society but also greatly affected the emerging convict culture. The dog proved more important than guns for kangaroo hunting, allowing the Aboriginals (who soon possessed their own domesticates) to compete successfully with the Europeans in the hunting market. The hunting culture, in turn, greatly slowed down the process of agriculture development, giving rise to a colonial experience that was far different from the typical European pattern.
25473163|This essay analyzes how a popular adjustment to floods gave way to the gradual build-up of vulnerability among the riparian population of the St. Francis River, where flooding events have occurred repeatedly since the middle of the nineteenth century. The need to control the river flow required that the flooding events be framed as a natural catastrophe that threatened the well-being of the population. This was especially the case when a sense of urgency accompanied the flooding events of 1913 and those of 1942 and 1943, and when droughts concurrently incited the regulation of the river flow and of the production of energy for industrial purposes. In both episodes, droughts contributed to the construction of floods as a natural catastrophe because they disrupted economic activities by provoking power shortages.
25764460|In 1992, the Forest Service adopted a new operating policy, Ecosystem Management, which minimized the agency's timber production goals in favor of a more ecologically balanced view of its responsibilities. In explaining this shift, scholars have dismissed the possibility of internal reform, arguing that the Service could not change without irresistible external pressure from environmental activists and new public values supporting biodiversity. Viewing the Service's shift through the lens of the spotted owl controversy, however, demonstrates the important role agency culture played in instigating bureaucratic change. The Service's evolution stemmed from the rising influence of its scientists in policy formation. Their research in support of protecting the owl and the biodiversity of old-growth forests thrived in an agency that nurtured scientific independence, and it thrust them into leadership positions. Forest Service science legitimized the arguments of environmentalists and crystallized public values favoring biodiversity into a new policy.
23049820|This article briefly sketches the history of the terms "wild life" and "wildlife" as they have been used in the United States since the late nineteenth century. It argues that "wild life" began to be used to refer to a class of living things at the beginning of the twentieth century and that it was only in the 1930s that "wildlife," written as a single word, came into widespread usage. The emergence of this concept paralleled the development of the field of wildlife management around the idea that wild living things, as such, could be the objects of human study and control. "Wildlife" solidified divisions between humans and animals, nature and culture, that had been fluid in the late nineteenth century, when it was possible to describe both bears and tourists as enjoying "a taste of wild life." The article concludes with two suggestions: historical research on wildlife would be strengthened by work on the history of the concept of wildlife, and ideas about humananimal relationships that prevailed before the relatively recent emergence of this concept and have persisted in its shadow might provide inspiration for new kinds of wildlife history.
25473330|The environmental history of Lhasa's Lhalu wetland reveals problems with competing ecological nationalist narratives of the Chinese state and Tibetan exiles. Both deny Tibetans the possibility of being historical agents vis--vis nature. The article traces a series of environmental projects enacted on the wetland from the 1950s to the present. Each one, enacted to secure the unstable edges of state sovereignty, ironically paved the way for the next. Certain aspects must be excluded from both ecological nationalist narratives and political ecological analyses because they do not conform to the linear, homogenous times and spaces required by narratives of the nation and universalized "nature." Disrupting these teleologies creates space for a fuller spectrum of accounts, memories, and practices of nature.
3986234|Although the Indian Forest Service was founded on conservationist principles, by the twentieth century it had become almost exclusively devoted to profitable exploitation of the forests it managed. Quantitative content analysis of the service's primary voice, The Indian Forester, correlates the transition from conservation to extraction to shifts from the dominance of generalists to that of bureaucratic specialists, and from ad-hoc holism to reductionism. Growing emphasis on reductionist science reinforced a mental framework inimical to conservationist arguments based on indirect benefits and appeals to precaution. In the broader culture, these arguments resurfaced in reaction to periodic famines, but by the beginning of the twentieth century, they had lost respectability within the Forest Service.
25764463|This essay introduces a new technique to improve the reliability of the interpretation of how weather and climatic factors have influenced past societies. Using the case of first European settlement in Australia, we argue that historians have largely ignored or misconstrued the influence of climate on past societies. We discuss how cool, wet weather during 17881790 (a La Nia) and the drought conditions of 17911793 (an El Nio) compromised initial settlement and agricultural development in the colony. We compare meteorological and palaeoclimatic data with historical sources to investigate how water scarcity has profoundly shaped Australian society since 1788.
25473169|The United States and Canada approach wildland fire differently. Fire matters to both countries for reasons of economics, public safety, duty-of-care to nature preserves, and bureaucratic identity and inertia. A useful survey of their differences could focus on three simple indices: how each assesses fire threats, how each assigns responsibility for fire management, and how each relates fire protection to land use. In all three instances, each country has evolved apparently similar but in reality parallel strategies that, like their shared border, meet but don't merge. These differences reflect larger national traits.
20749673|Standard Western civilizations curricula of the premodern period, while ably incorporating postcolonial, feminist, and ethnic studies scholarship, reflect virtually nothing of the larger cultural consciousness regarding sustainability or the critiques and findings of environmental history. At the same time, world environmental histories tend to treat this period only selectively, do not often engage directly with the current discourses of sustainability, and are not inclined toward the humanities-oriented tasks of deep, sustained reflection on primary texts and historical narratives, the aims of a Western civilizations curriculum. This essay reflects on a course, "Western Civilization and Sustainability: Beginnings to 1600," developed to fill this gap. It describes how a multilayered approach that critically assesses sustainability and pairs traditional and environmental histories with analysis of primary texts has the capacity to reorient historians' questions, narratives, and periodization at the same time that it leads to fertile engagement between environmental history, sustainability, and the humanities.
40608470|This article sheds light on the relationship between the environment and war by examining the role the Alps played for Germans and Austrians in the First World War. The historiography of the Great War often portrays nature as a passive victim. Although it suffered the storms of heavy industry and military technology, the natural world was not just a silent casualty of combat. On the Alpine Front, the mountains played an active and crucial role in the war. The landscape conferred heroic stature on the soldiers who battled on the heights and survived the Alpine extremes. The war also transformed in crucial ways how soldiers conceived of the mountains. No longer viewed as simply the playground of Europe, the peaks became ramparts protecting the borders of an embattled land. The Alps acquired increasingly chauvinistic overtones, all the more so when they endured the onslaught of destruction. Besieged but never broken, the mountains became powerful symbols for those who still dreamt of Germany victorious. The ecological legacy of the First World War in the Alps reveals the lasting cultural and political dimensions of the conflict.
23049827|This article draws together empirical case studies from Britain, France, and the United States to develop the nascent history of landscapes used to prepare for war and national defense. Although environmental historians have explored the environmental impact of war, the military training areas and weapons manufacturing sites that form the focus of this comparative study remain peripheral to the discipline, despite the vast landholdings that militaries deploy in the preparation for war. This essay approaches these important but understudied sites through the lens of four major themesprotesting militarization through eviction, the emergence of military environmentalism, the status and role of nonhuman occupants of militarized landscapes, and cooperation between civilians and the militaryin a broadly chronological comparative study. As these themes reveal, more subtle analysis of the evolving relationship between the military and the environment is required as an antidote to the binary approaches that currently dominate scholarship. Existing perspectives not only tend to lack sensitivity to both time and space but either uncritically claim that military activity is ecologically harmless (or even beneficial) or dismiss the claims of military environmentalism as mere "greenwash."
23049822|This paper explores how naturalists have engaged with the issue of wildlife extinction over the last two centuries. After a long period of resisting the notion of extinction, based on beliefs in the great chain of being and the balance of nature, naturalists finally accepted the idea in the early nineteenth century. By the end of that century, they not only began routinely documenting wildlife extinction but also mobilizing to stop it. That campaign led to a series of state and federal laws that culminated in the Endangered Species Act of 1973, landmark legislation that focused on rescuing individual species for the fate of extinction. A second, less prominent tradition of concern, which developed alongside this individual species approach and focused on the loss of biological communities, has garnered increasing attention in recent years. It remains to be seen, however, whether this more ecological approach to wildlife conservation will garner the political support necessary to implement it fully.
40608479|One of the founders of the ASEH and this journal, John Opie is not only a pioneer in the field of environmental history, but also a gifted photographer. In this wide-ranging interview he discusses, among many topics, the link between his professional interests and his passion for photography, his early years in Chicago, his role in the genesis of this journal, and the themes of his major books and articles. And he speaks candidly, as perhaps only an emeritus professor can, about the motive that inspires all of us: "passion for a better world than we have so far created and endured."
25473298|The period 1965-1980 was a time of dramatic change in the academic discipline of ecology. Membership in the Ecological Society of America more than doubled. This growth was accompanied by spirited debate over fundamental concepts and the intellectual boundaries of ecology. As public awareness of environmental problems grew, ecologists struggled to define their professional identity and their public role in the burgeoning popular environmental movement. The resulting tensions within professional ecology were strikingly evident in the way different ecologists presented the conceptual framework, norms, and goals of their discipline to students through competing college textbooks. This paper explores how the dominant textbook of the 1960s, Eugene Odum's Fundamentals of Ecology, was challenged by a new breed of textbooks, beginning in the early 1970s. Odum's textbook was notable for its emphasis on applied ecology and its presentation of ecologists as expert environmental problem-solvers. The newer textbooks differed from Fundamentals of Ecology both in their strong evolutionary perspectives and their ambivalence toward environmental biology. Ironically, as environmentalism gained increasing public support during the 1970s, many ecologists turned away from teaching environmental issues.
25473263|In response to environmental historians' growing usage of spatial theory and terminology, this essay seeks to clarify the development of terms used to describe state spaces. The essay urges historians to be more deliberate in defining and using spatial terminology, and to give greater consideration to how these concepts have been used in other disciplines. Historians' insights about the contexts and contingencies of the past are critically important for the formation of social and environmental policy, but to matter beyond their discipline, they must better attune themselves to how other scholars and policy makers have been using boundary terminology.
25473264|The Valley of the Sun, a booming metropolitan region of 3.7 million people in a desert that gets seven inches of annual rainfall, has enjoyed an oasis lifestyle during the twentieth century, supported by government-funded reclamation projects and water pumped from aquifers deep underground. Following World War II, groundwater depletion accelerated rapidly, threatening the sustainability of that Sunbelt boom. The state of Arizona, with prodding from the federal government, passed the Arizona Groundwater Management Act of 1980 designed to end groundwater overdraft by 2025. Initially considered a progressive statute, the law has been systematically weakened over the past twenty-five years, increasing water insecurity and delaying necessary conservation and growth control measures.
25473327|Progressive-era conservationists envisioned the physical energy exerted by male bodies as a natural resource. As a result, foresters and rehabilitationists attempted to simultaneously conserve trees and manpower by using wooden prosthetics and vocational training in forestry to reconstruct the bodies of disabled World War I veterans and place them in forest work. Though they mostly failed, their efforts suggest the need for reconsidering the make-up of the conservation movement, the objects of its labors, and potential intersections for environmental and gender history.
23049785|Did the Protestant Reformation inadvertently liberate Northern Europe from a long-standing demographic drain exerted by Rome's indigenous P. falciparum malaria? Perhaps, but the existing scholarship on Northern European travel to Rome is only suggestive, not conclusive. Although the presence of P. falciparum in Rome in historical times is well established, literature on Northern European travel to Rome drawn from scattered and anecdotal evidence, thus rendering inconclusive their finding that Northern European travel to Rome declined after the Reformation. Seeking corroboration, I performed a statistical analysis of travel to Rome using a novel source: names taken from an archive of nearly 3,000 web pages generated by targeted search engine queries in three languages. The highly suggestive results obtained by this method not only support the original thesis, but also might serve as a guide for other scholars seeking data samples for untraditional environmental history research.
23049825|Peter Matthiessen's Wildlife in America says little about the bodily connections between humans and wildlife. But environmental historians' growing interest in health should be extended to wildlife stories because humans' relationships with wildlife have shaped environmental health ideas, policies, and inequalities. Embodied wildlife histories would also encompass many common creatures that are not typically considered wildlife, such as Norway rats. The same processes of urbanization and landscape change that endangered many of the more charismatic species in Matthiessen's account also supported synanthropic species like rats and white-tailed deer, and increased contact between them and human communities. Histories of zoonotic diseases such as plague and encephalitis that jump from wildlife to humans in cities and exurbs can shed light on similar threats that have recently arisen, including Lyme disease and West Nile virus.
23050648|This article examines the history of how Chinese pig breeds came to Europe and later America. While Asian hogs were domesticated for feeding on waste and agricultural by-products, ancient European hogs had to range in forests for mast, producing a leaner, more wild type. As European forests were cleared, mast feeding came under recurring pressure, creating incentives for improved swine management and breeding. In the eighteenth century, as Northern European agriculture intensified, Chinese pigs were imported to create improved varieties first in England and then in America. These new breeds, with their enhanced capacity for rapid weight gain, played a vital role in the pig's transformation from a small-farm subsistence animal into an industrial meat producer. The article analyzes this history of pig breeds as a microcosm of early modern globalization and the emergence of industrial capitalism, as well as a case study of how interdisciplinary evidence and evolutionary perspectives can contribute to the emerging field of animal studies.
25764461|For over forty years, the Hanford Nuclear Reservation produced plutonium for the American nuclear arsenal, generating significant radioactive waste in the process. The reasoning behind why these radioactive releases occurred has been the subject of intense debate since the government's first admission of waste management problems in the 1980s. Scholars and activists have argued that Hanford management intentionally endangered the health and safety of regional inhabitants because of a culture of secrecy and an overwhelming emphasis on achieving plutonium production goals. I argue instead that in Hanford's first decade of development, when scientists and engineers developed many crucial waste management practices, the site's environmental policies were actually well-intentioned but also informed by pre-existing standards of industrial safety that usually emphasized worker safety over broader ecological concerns. When managers did consider the impact of radioactive waste off-site, they demonstrated a utilitarian bias that was overly concerned with protecting the region's commercially valuable livestock and fish populations.
25473161|Ecological imperialism is one of the most enduring models of past global environmental change. This essay argues that the application of ecological imperialism as an explanation for New World environmental change should not be limited to temperate regions where the process was so spectacularly successful. Using the Canadian North as a broad regional template, our analysis suggests that consideration of both the failures and the limited successes of ecological imperialism are critical to a more complete understanding of global colonialism. Although the Canadian North was never subject to the broad ecological transformation that occurred further to the south, attempts to colonize particular regions did occur in tandem with the successful introduction of alien species. Ecological imperialism need not be conceptualized solely as an all-encompassing process of biological transformation. Instead, efforts to colonize peripheral nontemperate regions can be understood as a product of a limited application of ecological imperialism in a New World environment.
20749671|Despite a recent surge in scholarship on the incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II, few historians have adopted an environmental perspective. This article brings the natural world to the center of the story and demonstrates how the environment shaped this notorious episode in American history. The War Relocation Authority, the federal agency that oversaw the camps, tried to control Japanese Americans by isolating them in remote areas and enlisting their labor to improve the land and maintain facilities. To resist and endure their incarceration, Japanese Americans both established intimate connections to nature and sometimes refused to work when demanded. Ultimately, the natural world served to complicate power relations at the Japanese American incarceration camps, ensuring that WRA control over the detainees was not absolute.
25764486|The Boy Scouts of America's emphasis on the simultaneous conservation of boyhood and natural resources prompted its phenomenal growth and broad range of popular and governmental support, challenging studies arguing that popular environmental activism and cooperation between men and women environmentalists declined between 1913 and 1932. Early Boy Scout officials claimed that conserving natural resources taught members the expert management, scientific efficiency, and civic responsibility needed to balance virility and Victorian self-control and to maintain leadership of a modernizing society. The Boy Scouts' "modest manliness" also suggests a different mainstream resolution to middle-class men's anxieties in this era from the virile primitivism through strenuous sports or playing Indians and pioneers outdoors stressed by most gender historians.
23049819|Wild animal abundance and scarcity have been key to religious and secular visions of the American future for centuries, and changes in their meanings reflect radical shifts in understandings of nature and progress. In the colonial era, the extirpation of wildlife was a sign of the fulfillment of prophecy and the conquest of Indians. But by the late nineteenth century, fears of wildlife decline were so great as to render the Ghost Dance, an American Indian prophecy of game abundance, oddly resonant for a broad swath of Americans. More recently, secular scientific predictions of wildlife extinction inspired such writers as Paul Shepard, Rachel Carson, Peter Matthiessen, and Cormac McCarthy to contemplate (and sometimes to prophesy) global extinctions.
3985802|Through a case study focusing on southeastern France, this article traces the history of French forests during World War II. For the Vichy regime the forest was not only a vital source of replacement products in a time of severe shortages, but also a habitat that could symbolize elements of Vichy's reactionary worldview. However, from late 1942 onward, resistance movements began physically and imaginatively to reclaim the forest from Vichy, turning it into a space of revolt and subversion. German and Italian occupation challenged French control of the forest, undermining Vichy's production drive, and turning forests into sites of armed conflict. By arguing that forests were an integral component of France's wartime history, this essay contributes to both the established historiography on Vichy France and the emerging literature on environmental histories of war.
25473234|"Milton in Yosemite" investigates the reasons why certain English and American visitors to Yosemite so often described the valley in religious terms, particularly in terms of an Eden. Reformed Protestantism developed a peculiarly strong nostalgia for Eden that John Milton gave a powerful form in "Paradise Lost." The poem's influence on Reformed culture in England and America reached Yosemite via three important paths: landscape architecture, landscape art, and literature. "Paradise Lost" had an especially large impact on the thought and works of John Muir. The conventions of the Miltonic Eden established in the nineteenth century continue to inform the dominant ways Americans envision Yosemite and the national parks today-for example, in the continued popularity of the work of Ansel Adams.
25764487|When Congress passed the National Trails Act of 1968, the Appalachian Trail shifted from being a regional grassroots endeavor to being part of the national park system. As the National Park Service began to acquire land for the corridor, private citizens who once maintained the trail through informal handshake agreements became directly involved in one of the most complex federal land acquisition programs in U.S. history. Local communities responded to the unusual public-private partnership in a variety of waysfrom cooperation to contestation. This analysis reveals the relational, complex, and fluid nature of the categories of "public" and "private" and demonstrates how a dynamic interplay of power and authority between different interests blazed the way for the kinds of public-private partnerships that have come to characterize twenty-first century environmental policy.
20749644|Historical thinking shapes climate and energy policy in the United States, yet few historians participate in these public debates. History guides policy choices, inspires proposals for action, and structures institutional development. Historical myths also valorize a free market in energy, helping to block legislative initiatives. Yet the history of energy transitions, and government's role in energy markets, support forceful governmental action for climate stabilization. Historians must ensure that climate and energy debates reflect a fundamental historical truth: our energy system embodies political power and social values as much as the latest engineering and science.
25473130|In recent decades, glaciers have become both a key icon for global warming and a type of endangered species. But to understand why glaciers are so inexorably tied to global warming and why people lament the loss of ice, it is necessary to look beyond climate science and glacier melting-to turn additionally to culture, history, and power relations. Probing historical views of glaciers demonstrates that the recent emergence of an "endangered glacier" narrative stemmed from various glacier perspectives dating to the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries: glaciers as menace, scientific laboratories, sublime scenery, recreation sites, places to explore and conquer, and symbols of wilderness. By encompassing so many diverse meanings, glacier and global warming discourse can thus offer a platform to implement historical ideologies about nature, science, imperialism, race, recreation, wilderness, and global power dynamics.
25764485|For much of American history, environmental protection and federal power have been two peas in a pod. This was especially true after World War II, as economic prosperity created a vast middle class that demanded environmental "beauty, health and permanence" (in Samuel Hays's words) as an indispensable part of its consumer lifestyle and expected government to secure them. The result was the birth, in Adam Rome's phrase, of the "environmental management state" in the 1960s and early 1970s as environmental protection took its place alongside national defense and social welfare as a major federal responsibility. Arizona Senator Barry Goldwater began his political career in the midst of postwar environmentalism's birth and growth. As a Westerner, a businessman, and a political conservative deeply mistrustful of the federal government, Goldwater seems an unlikely candidate for any environmental sympathies, especially of the federal-regulatory variety, but a close look at his life reveals a man with a complex relationship with the natural world, environmentalism, and the environmental management state. In the end, Goldwater went to his grave without ever fully coming to terms with the tensions between his environmentalist sympathies and his conservatism, but nevertheless his environmental odyssey tells us a lot about the depth and breadth of postwar environmentalism in the United States, as well as the changing conservative movement and the Republican Party.
3985803|This essay identifies the major trends and theoretical underpinnings of South African environmental history, and places them within the context of recent political, social, and economic developments in the post-apartheid era. Skeptical about Western conservation models, attentive both to the concerns of local communities and to transnational themes, and alert to issues of power, space, agency, and identity, this new historiography has reconfigured the colonial past in environmental terms and set an ambitious agenda for future research.
23049781|Despite over a century of conservation efforts and scientific forest management, a keystone nut tree common to California and southwestern Oregon is threatened by the 1995 introduction of an exotic disease. This is after decades of overharvesting of bark for industrial tanning beginning with American settlement, then of a full-scale tanoak eradication campaign by the mid-1900s. In addition to herbicide use, twentieth-century fire suppression favored conifers over tanoak. This article explores the limits and failures of governmental regulation to reverse devastating assaults on tanoak by examining the interplay of economic, ecological, and cultural factors that informed use and abuse.
25473131|Popular education was one of the most important elements of Progressive Era conservation. But what kind of education produced conservationists? Bird Day was typical of efforts in popular education in that it attempted to inculcate both moral passion and scientific objectivity in children and the wider public. Bird Day highlights the uneasy relationship between progressive conservationists and objective, quantifiable science, particularly the struggle by conservation activists to embrace the rational qualities of the scientific endeavor without sacrificing the emotional fervor that motivated popular interest in conservation.
3986027|In the decades around 1900, middle-class women were indispensable in every environmental cause in the United States, and they often justified their activism as an extension of traditionally feminine responsibilities. The prominence of women as advocates of environmental reform posed a challenge for men who sought to stop pollution, conserve natural resources, and preserve wild places and creatures. How could they make their case without losing their masculine authority? Men responded to that challenge in several ways, and their responses shaped both the rhetoric and institutional structure of environmental reform for much of the twentieth century.
20749669|In spring 1970, millions of people took part in thousands of Earth Day teach-ins, protests, and celebrations across the United States. Yet we know remarkably little about those events. We also have not thought enough about the significance of the first Earth Day. Earth Day 1970 was not just an unprecedented demonstration of public support for environmental protection. Earth Day was a massive mobilizing effort: In many ways, Earth Day nurtured the first green generation.
3986030|Historical accounts of the development of a modern science of aquaculture have tended to focus upon one or two states, particular interest groups, and, or, specific species of fish. This small and narrowly focused body of literature has left the existence of a broader movement, one that ultimately spanned the entire globe by the second half of the nineteenth century and included many dozens of aquatic species, largely unappreciated and unexamined. This essay highlights the significance of the French origins of that modern aquacultural revolution and traces the movement's diffusion into wider Western intellectual and ecological peripheries.
25473167|Given the low standard of contact between environmental and military historians, it is unsurprising, if regrettable, that the relationship between military activity and natural landscapes in Canada has received minimal scholarly attention. This paper seeks to open space for such an environmental history of militarism and militarization. Focusing on the Cold War and its aftermath, the essay documents the history of military activity on Canadian soil, with an emphasis on the North, specifically examining a set of crucial projects and operations that redefined not only physical terrain but associated imaginative understandings of nature. The history of Cold War Canada is littered with suitable examples, from early military exercises and the construction of the Distant Early Warning (DEW) radar line to more recent missile tests and low-level training flights. While it is crucial that these are understood in environmental terms, a genealogy of military activity in the Canadian North reveals changing and at times contrasting approaches to the military-environment relationship. Equally, however, as northern nature was viewed through a series of shifting strategic perspectives, it remained a target of state-driven modernization linked consistently to military objectives.
3985738|State scientific surveys are underexplored territory in environmental history, an oversight made more glaring since these projects were rich in their assumptions, methods, and legacies. This article examines Virginia's 1830s Geological Survey, asking why the state sought its benefits, how the project was organized, and what specific social and technical activities it comprised. The survey, all told, is indicative of a budding interest in and acceptance of science as a valid means to describe the environment.
25473133|The atomic scientists' intense fascination with nature helped them to produce the knowledge necessary to create the bomb. These physicists, chemists, and mathematicians believed that nature should be reduced to its essential parts, observed, explained in terms of laws, and manipulated for human purposes. Their relationship to nature, however, included more than just this instrumental mentality and method, which alone were insufficient to yield scientific insights. Walking, hiking, and mountain climbing loosened the scientists' minds and helped them to think about atoms and subatomic particles. More important, the scientists' deep feelings about nature-curiosity and emotions generally known as wonder-inspired them to undertake the research that eventually informed their Manhattan Project work. By describing a little-known side of the bomb, this essay advances a recent scholarly trend toward studies of the hidden or unexpected environmental features of America's atomic project.
25473138|Retirement has obviously not diminished the intellectual creativity of Samuel P. Hays, one of the founders of our field. In this interview, we asked Sam to discuss how his personal and academic experiences have shaped his choice of scholarly topics from his first major publication, Conservation and the Gospel of Efficiency (Harvard, 1958), to his most recent one, Wars in the Woods (Pittsburgh, 2006).
25473197|Donald Worster has been a powerful voice for environmental history within the United States and around the world for more than three decades. His scholarship, along with his many public talks and addresses, have alerted historians, scientists, policy makers, and environmental activists about the rich insights that our field offers to anyone concerned with the relationship of humans and nature. This interview explores the personal and intellectual sources of Worster's scholarship and thought, and his ideas about future directions of the field.
25473192|In 1996 Forest & Conservation History and "Environmental History" Review merged to form "Environmental History." As a continuation of these earlier journals, in 2007 "Environmental History" celebrated fifty years of publication. The scope of coverage of the journal and its predecessors changed over time, reflecting not only the emphases of their various editors but also the evolution of the societies behind the journals and of environmental history itself. The merger was not accomplished without strain. The haste with which it was done and the differing cultures of the sponsoring organizations, the Forest History Society and American Society of Environmental History, created problems that were difficult to overcome, but in the end not intractable. Today not only the journal, but both societies are larger and stronger than ever.
25473035|This essay argues that environmental history has not engaged as fully with social and political theory as it might, and that once it does, environmental historians will find that their concerns are, potentially, much closer to the mainstream of thought in the social sciences and humanities than they might have expected. In fact, environmental history has the promise to be central to the most influential social thought in the academy and among policy makers. The field also needs to consider the roles of knowledge and science, or "knowledge regimes," in translating scientific "facts" into politically realizable decisions.
25473066|Environmental debates are greatly indebted to artistic communication. This article discusses the work of the former faculty member of the German Bauhaus school, Herbert Bayer, who introduced modernist imagery in relation to globalization, conservation values, and maps dealing with environmental concerns in the United States. His Romantic defense of environmental design demonstrates that the humanist legacy of modernism has made more constructive contributions to the history of environmental debate than its critics have been willing to admit. Bayer's global humanism and environmental designs created a visual language of colors, images, symbols, and dynamic illustrations that aimed at harmonizing human relationships with the natural world.
25473237|This essay describes the conservation history of California's hardwood rangelands: a vast region of oak woodland, grassland, and chaparral vegetation that occurs almost entirely on private property. Conservation has played as important a role in the history of California's privately owned hardwood rangelands as it has on the neighboring public lands administered by the U.S. Forest Service. The story of the hardwood rangelands, which includes a long history of cooperative conservation, challenges the conflict narrative of western rangeland history. It also demonstrates that neither local private control nor centralized public administration offers a panacea for range management.
40608499|Wildlife literature, photography, and film on Africa have long been popular in Western countries and beyond. Academic literature on visual representations of Africa discusses how the camera has colonized and possessed African people, nature, and places. Both James Ryan and Paul Landau have developed Susan Sontag's analogy of shooting with camera and rifle, comparing the power dynamics at work. Our aim is to expand interpretations of media on African wildlife, and to understand them in the context of more complex and changing power relationships rather than to focus simply on their imperial and neocolonial dimensions. Visual images included universalist ideas and approaches that in part grew out of scientific concerns. Literature and film found resonance with popular audiences and helped to shape new attitudes and approaches to animals. We suggest that these media representations were a significant, and neglected, element of modern environmentalism. They were generated in Africa and celebratory of its animals and landscapeand sometimes of its people. This was a new aesthetic arising from a Western vision but powerfully influenced by locations, animals, and people in Africa.
25473299|This text examines selected writings produced by four leading Brazilian conservation scientists active in the 1920s, 1930s, and 1940s. Alberto Jos Sampaio (1881-1946), Armando Magalhes Corra (1889-1944), Cndido de Mello Leito (1886-1948), and Frederico Carlos Hoehne (1882-1959) were prominent members of a "second generation" of Brazilian conservationists. Although they died on the average about sixty years ago, they have receded from memory and their publications have become all but inaccessible. We argue that their ideas, research, and institution-building efforts were highly pertinent and influential in their own time and remain valuable today as building blocks of Brazilian conservation awareness and policies. This article brings together biographical and professional data about each author and examines the texts that best illustrate their range of concerns, their sources, and their priorities in the field of nature conservation.
23049821|This essay argues that mainstream, primarily white, America has historically not valued common fish in the same ways as other more charismatic species, particularly land and sea mammals. The physical characteristics of an animal, its habitat type, its commercial value, and ideas about property in animals all may have influenced popular perceptions of aquatic versus terrestria species. These issues have, in turn, greatly influenced regulatory and conservation efforts for some species.
20749647|Twenty years ago, in a review of a book of essays on environmental history edited by Donald Worster [The Ends of the Earth, 1988], William H. McNeill wrote: "The question of whether there is a new field of environmental history with a sufficient body of shared ideas to become a coherent sub-discipline has not really been answered. Whether [environmental historians] will revolutionize the study of history, as Worster says social historians did a generation ago, or merely fragment it by creating another coterie of specialists who read one another's writing and not much else, remains to be seen. But the elementary fact that human beings share the earth with other forms of life, and have from ancient times been capable of altering natural balances more drastically than any other species has ever done, surely ought to become part of all historians' consciousness." We are delighted that, two decades after this initial assessment, Professor McNeill, a pioneer in the field of world history, has agreed to discuss the current convergence between world history and environmental history, as well as the shape of his own distinguished career.
25473132|Long shrouded in a cocoon of national-security secrecy, the history of the Lake Ontario Ordnance Works site in western New York sheds light on the enduring environmental, political, and social costs of victory in World War II and the Cold War. A micro-study of a nuclear waste site, this article analyzes connections among U.S. nuclear weapons waste management and the environment, local politics, grassroots activism, and international diplomacy. Ultimately, it argues that a spirit of patriotic sacrifice, combined with a culture of secrecy, overrode concerns about safety. The end result of that sacrifice is today a legacy of environmental contamination and the progressive decline of local democratic controls over natural resources.
40608544|The California redwoods have long been the subject of conflict, but after 1970 the fights were transformed when citizens leveraged the courts to challenge California's corporatist timber regime, with its focus on timber production. The history of the legal campaign highlights the need to focus on local aspects of modern environmental history. Unlike the typical narrative about the nationalization and professionalization of modern environmental politics, the redwood battles reveal persistent insurgence, intense local activism, and the breakdown of a corporatist, production-focused governance tradition. The history of the legal fights over the redwoods also points to the national consequences, most of them unintended, of the local activism. The current literature prioritizes litigation efforts that enforced and clarified particular aspects of the modern environmental protection regime, not litigation that transformed governance. This essay focuses on the eight most important cases in the movement to reform California forestry governance. Because the local citizens' movement set its sights on the transformation of institutions, increased regulation of private property, and giant redwoods, it led to, and was part of, one of the most important environmental battles of the late twentieth century.
25473265|In 1969, Cleveland's Cuyahoga River caught fire and burned for about twenty minutes, damaging two railroad trestles. After initially receiving little local news coverage, the fire evolved into an iconic event of the environmental crisis. Significantly, the river had caught fire at least nine times before 1969. Why, then, did the 1969 fire garner so much interest? We argue that the growing importance of the burning river reveals one consequence of the long, wrenching process of deindustrialization in Cleveland and much of the United States. Press coverage of the earlier fires focused on economic issues. The Cuyahoga and its industrial flats were at the heart of Cleveland's economy; the area's docks, railroads, warehouses, and refineries were essential to the city's well-being. By the 1970s, however, as the 1969 fire story evolved, the flats were rapidly emptying, as were nearby neighborhoods. No longer did most Clevelanders make their living near the industrial river. From a greater physical and psychological distance, then, the burning river looked much more troubling than it had close up in an earlier era. Cleveland's postindustrial sensibilities-like those of the nation as a whole-created new meanings for the Cuyahoga and its 1969 fire.
3986031|The ocean may be the next frontier for environmental historians. People have depended on the ocean for centuries and quietly reshaped it. Recently the tragic impact of overfishing, habitat destruction, and biological invasions has become apparent. Yet the history of human interactions with marine environments remains largely uninvestigated, in part because of the enduring assumption that the ocean exists (or existed) outside of history. Historians should take seriously the challenge to historicize the ocean. That will include investigating its changing nature and peoples' historically specific assumptions about using and regulating it. Arguing that marine environmental history can complement on-going research in historical marine ecology, this essay invokes recent scientific work while staking out distinct terrain for historians.
23049855|Literature has for more than a century been Americans' primary means of informal education about nature, and Edwin Way Teale's four books on the seasons, published between 1951 and 1965, constituted a high point in that period. With their immense popularity and rapid eclipse by environmentalism, they offer a window on postwar views and experiences and also show continuity and change in perspectives across the environmental divide. Literature still served as an inducement to conservation and still used natural history to organize experience in nature and reflections on its meaning. It discarded, though, the objective, detached narrators of Teale's generation, focused less on wild nature and more on humans in nature, and with global warming and biodiversity loss is taking on new themes and even new forms.
23049853|In the second half of the eighteenth century, Russian fur traders in the North Pacific decimated marine mammal populations, a loss made easier to observe by the region's island geography. At the same time, European and Russian observers on several Russian-sponsored voyages of exploration noted the extinction and near extinction of these animals with alarm. In their published accounts of their voyages, these observers linked the extinction to the poor environmental ethos of the Russian Empire. This history provides another example of the power of colonial locations to influence European environmental discourses and demonstrates that extinction had become a European concern earlier than previously suspected.
23049815|Historians who have written about wildlife in North America have told their stories in many ways: as tales of ecological decline, tragedies of the commons, chronicles of scientific discovery, parables of ethical redemption, clashes of values, reorganizations of spatial relationships, expansions of federal authority, and struggles of conservation versus social justice. This essay introduces the "Fifty Years of Wildlife in America" forum. The forum includes ten short articles that consider the legacy of Peter Matthiessen's classic 1959 book, Wildlife in America, explore how wildlife scholarship has changed in the half century since, and chart new directions for historical research on the interactions between people and wild animals on the continent.
25473164|For two centuries, each surge of city-building has consumed massive amounts of raw materials and restructured flows of materials, as merchants and manufacturers reached out to capture resources from greater distances but persisted in accumulating a large share of the wastes close to home. Eight such surges of growth can be seen, and synchronized, in Baltimore, Maryland, and Montreal, Quebec. The environmental impacts are marshalled to appeal for more attention to material flows at scales that reflect the boom-and-bust context of urban decision making.
25764488|On October 20, 1948, the Soviet government announced the world's first state-centered program to reverse human-induced climate change, a grandiose plan to construct 5.7 million hectares of forest in the Russian south. However, the plan collapsed upon Stalin's death in 1953 because of a fundamental contradiction at the plan's heart. At first, the Stalin Plan advanced a basically conservative vision of restoring the steppes to an imagined prehistoric state, but soon a group of radical scientists advancing untested silvicultural theories managed to take control. The resulting struggle between the old approach and the new brought about the plan's collapse.
25473235|When Zionism emerged in Europe as the Jewish people's national movement at the advent of the twentieth century, its political leaders and ideological visionaries were concerned about defining an appropriate relationship between Jewish settlement in Palestine and the "Land of Israel." Just as it sported a rich variety of political camps and philosophies, Zionism did not embrace a monolithic "environmental ethic." The perceptions and attitudes toward the natural world and the role of human intervention in the reclaiming of Jewish people's ancient homeland evolved dramatically as the pioneering community became more familiar with the country's physical realties and the agrarian economy became more industrialized. Yet, the initial "technological optimism," which informed the European founders' strategy for settlement in the Middle East, persisted and influences responses to growing environmental challenges in Israel today.
23049828|In early October 1969, Badische Anilin and Soda Fabrik Company (BASF) announced plans to build a petrochemical plant near Beaufort, South Carolina. Overwhelmingly supported by state officials, the plan attracted opposition from developers and residents of nearby resorts on Hilton Head Island. Early in the debate, advocates and opponents of the plant clashed mainly over the type of development best suited for Beaufortmanufacturing or recreation. Yet each side changed their framing as they sought to attract national support. By 1970 opposition groups reached out to the burgeoning national environmental movement by discussing the controversy in terms of the environment. Supporters of the facility stressed the plant's role in combating poverty and providing economic aid to Beaufort's sizable poor population. The controversy therefore pitted two of the largest movements in the twentieth century against each other: the eradication of poverty and environmentalism. This study therefore reveals the strength of the environmental movement both regionally and nationally, and how environmentalism was beginning to compete with other major issues on the national agenda. It also complicates the usual portrayal of environmentalists and reveals the competing motives and visions that often made up environmental campaigns.
23050646|Between 1875 and 1900 advocates of green space in London converted nearly a hundred graveyards into public gardens or playgrounds. This article examines why and how this transformation in urban land use occurred. Incorporating changes in ideas about the body, disease, environment, and religion, it argues that a radically new understanding of the corpse and of burial emerged in Britain during the late nineteenth century. Instead of regarding the disintegration of the corpse with horror and trying to arrest it, many came to see the process as essential to the balance of nature. They argued that the planting of grass, plants, and trees was necessary not only to purify the air of unhealthy gases, but also to speed the transformation of the human body into its constituent elements and thus complete the circulation of matter between the animal and vegetable worlds. Although some critics maintained that the creation of recreation areas in burial grounds was both disrespectful and unhealthy, the proponents of graveyard conversion secured both popular support and parliamentary sanction for their efforts.
3986233| As it sought to reconfigure the natural environment and simultaneously create new citizens in the USSR, Joseph Stalin's dictatorship strongly emphasized the conversion of children to socialism. Representations of nature in Stalinist children's literature encompassed not only crude propaganda, but also less adversarial, more scientific expressions of human entitlement vis--vis the environment as well as a small but significant number of apolitical celebrations of nature. In so doing, early Soviet children's literature demonstrated the limitations of dictatorial power as well as its extent. 
23049783|Through looking at the growth of international waste recovery and waste dumping in the 1970s and 1980s, this paper considers one aspect of the mixed environmental legacy of the oil crisis. The author examines discussions about waste recovery and waste dumping in concert with metaphors of "wasting" and "recycling" to look at how domestic U.S. economic concerns dramatically shaped economic relationships between the global North and South in regards to not just resources but refuse. This paper argues that, while there was indeed a growing awareness in the West about resources and resource recovery, more than promoting conservation, the oil crisis coerced cash-strapped developing countries into accepting the West's excess waste. The ultimate result has been both ingenious and very hazardous "recycling" practices.
40608500|The failure of the Mexican government to agree to a joint park along the border with the United States has been portrayed as a lack of consciousness about conservation within Mexico. Yet in the 1930s the Mexican government created and administered forty national parks elsewhere in the country. The absence of a joint border park gives cause to examine the larger historical context to compare interpretations of national parks and reasons for their incompatibility. Detailed correspondence and discussions of the failed border park project reveal the agenda of Mexican officials and the ways in which they differed from and argued with their counterparts in the United States. This article argues that the international park failures had less to do with Mexican incompetence or insufficient funds and more to do with Mexican opinions on the environment and on their perceived purposes of nature protection. Among other factors, the Mexican style of conservation valued central landscapes, easy access, and forest restoration over remote wilderness. Culturally distinct definitions of conservation and different interpretations of national parks precluded the creation of an international border park, despite years of negotiation.
25473333|Susan Flader, professor emerita of western and American environmental history at the University of Missouri, has published seminal works on Aldo Leopold's life and thought, on forest history, and the history of parks. In this wide-ranging interview, she discusses the origins and development of her work on Leopold, the early years of the American Society for Environmental History (of which she is a past president), her activities as a citizen-activist, and the role of the humanities in shaping her work as an environmental historian.
20749641|In the years 1886-1889, George Bird Grinnell, conservationist and editor of Forest and Stream, founded the Audubon Society and edited The Audubon Magazine. During this period he encouraged women to contribute to both journals and enlisted their help in saving avifauna by halting the wearing of bird feathers in hats. In so doing he helped to bridge the gender divide in conservation. A gendered dialectic emerges during the 1880s-1900s that moves back and forth between male and female blame and responsibility, to female activism, and finally to women and men working together to reenergize the Audubon movement, form Audubon societies, and pass laws to halt the trade in feathers and preserve birdlife.
40608471|U.S. foresters built the first federal tree nursery in the treeless Nebraska Sand Hills, in 1902, and began planting a forest in the surrounding grasslands. This forest was built to be a technology that would produce timber, ameliorate the climate, and attract settlers to the area. Over the course of a century foresters gained a unique ecological perspective by creating rather than harvesting a forest. As a technology and an ecosystem, designed by humans but shaped by ecological process, this forest defies the boundaries of natural and artificial.
40608506|"It is not often," John O'Neill has observed, "that a historian coins a new phrase that becomes standard shorthand for some complex phenomenon, but today almost every practicing historian in the U. S., and many overseas, recognize the words The Columbian Exchange."' Yet Alfred W. Crosby's book of that title, now indisputably a classic in the field of environmental history, could not find a publisher for several years before it appeared in 1972. In this interview, Crosby discusses the personal and professional background behind his emergence as an environmental historian, comments on the half-dozen major works he has produced since The Columbian Exchange, and offers some shrewd advice for younger practitioners of the craft. The field of environmental history is fortunate to have had among its founders a number of historians who write with elegance, wit, and verve about topics of the largest import. Alfred W. Crosby is surely one of them, and the editors are deeply grateful for the opportunity to interview him about the shape of his career and the state of the field.
3986231|His reputation as "the Peanut Man" notwithstanding, George Washington Carver was very much a part of the nascent conservation movement during the Progressive Era. From the Tuskegee Institute, he sought to persuade black farmers that altering their environmental behavior could mitigate, to some extent, the economic and political vicissitudes they faced as a result of their race. His campaign on behalf of impoverished black farmers provides an instructive case study of how one strand of Progressive conservation was undone by its failure to adequately navigate the intersection of the South's land use and social and political institutions.
40608502|The Love Canal chemical disaster marked a signal moment in the American environmental movement. The disaster was "discovered" in 1978, when residents and the public realized that over 22,000 tons of hazardous wastes had been buried in the LaSalle neighborhood of Niagara Falls, New York. Contrary to accepted understandings of the disaster, an interfaith coalition called the Ecumenical Task Force of the Niagara Frontier offered the first arguments for state intervention on the basis of social justice principles, and called for governmental and corporate responsibility in resolving the environmental damage. The group gave significant aid to Love Canal residents under the guise of disaster relief, a traditional religious activity. In the process, the Task Force evolved from simply offering monetary aid to advocating for the community, affecting local and state environmental policy, and connecting the disaster to broader issues. This research recovers a mostly forgotten actor involved in Love Canal's grassroots activism, one whose presence significantly alters our understanding of the event. The group's presence marks an important development in postwar social activism with one of the first appearances of religiously based environmental activism. The research contributes to environmental history, religious history, and modern U. S. history.
25473236|Beginning in the 1920s, the convergence of ecological transformations that originated in China and Japan gave rise to protracted disputes over yellow croaker fishing grounds off of China's southeast coast. These conflicts highlight the importance of transnational perspectives in marine environmental history. Geopolitics influenced patterns of marine resource exploitation, as Japan's diplomatic and military advantage prevented the Chinese government from excluding the Japanese fleet from yellow croaker fishing grounds. Motivated by a mutual understanding of fishery expansion as a way to strengthen the nation-state, Chinese and Japanese exploitation hastened the decline of yellow croaker resources by the late 1930s.
3986028|This article examines the rise and fall of the "green revolution" philosophy developed by the National Catholic Rural Life Conference in the 1930s as a distinct strain of American environmentalism. After reviewing the evolution of the approach, its maturation around 1940, and its postwar marginalization, the article focuses on three aspects of the NCRLC. First is its ideology, as a "third way," a distributist alternative to socialism and capitalism. Second is the attempt to foster sustainable agricultural technologies by creating communitarian institutions in which the parish priest was central and by bringing an agrarian curriculum into Catholic higher education. Third is the attempt to ground this orientation toward sustainability in a distinctly Catholic nature spirituality, based on cyclicity rather than space.
23050645|To place a new and revealing light on the origins, context, and goals of early American conservation, this article investigates the influence and significance of Bernard Palissy, a sixteenth-century Huguenot artisan renowned for his ceramics and author of two remarkable books. A revival of interest in his ceramics led in the middle of the nineteenth century to his rediscovery in America, where his comments on forests made him a hero to early conservationists from George Perkins Marsh to Gifford Pinchot. Palissy placed his forestry comments in the context of agricultural improvement, the first full garden design in France, and the creation of a Huguenot refuge from persecution. This agenda foreshadowed the three aspects of nineteenth-century American conservationagricultural improvement, forestry, and parkswhich originated primarily among Congregationalists from the Connecticut Valley, descendants of Puritans seeking religious refuge. Both Palissy's agenda and American conservation originated in and constituted essential components of a comprehensive Calvinist vision of a moral and orderly society.
20749642|In the field of environmental history, Henry David Thoreau has come to symbolize the arrival of a preservationist ethos in American culture. His retreat to a secluded house in Walden woods, his book Walden, and essay "Walking," and millions of journal words about the Concord and New England landscape have all suggested the possession of a proto-environmentalism in Thoreau's life and literature. This essay documents the construction and use of the preservationist Thoreau by environmental historians. It then offers a summative profile of Thoreau's life leading up to his Walden experiment that challenges our common view. Finally, it examines the context of Thoreau's activity and writing following his Walden stay during the late 1840s and 1850s (Thoreau's most nature-oriented period), revealing the preservationist reading to be an incomplete rendering of Thoreau's overall interests.
3985801|Most environmental historians are acquainted with Farrar and Rinehart's Rivers of America book series, but few know much about its genesis and context. This essay examines the six works edited by the series founder, Constance Lindsay Skinner, and argues that these books shed light on interwar environmental thought and suggest that environmental history, at least in its public form, is not as new as many historians in the field have supposed.
3985739|In the late nineteenth century the organized summer camp movement developed as a response to anxieties about the effects of the urban-industrial age on children. Camping advocates wanted to create a countermodern alternative to the world their campers inhabited most of the year. These advocate subscribed to a set of values and assumptions about what is "natural" for children that eventually provoked a debate over the uses of nature in socializing children. Environmental historians can learn much from this debate as they try to make sense of how nature has been constructed both literally and symbolically in the twentieth century.
3985737|This article traces the origins of conservationist thinking among a group of scientists who constructed a system of American natural history while exploring the transappalachian frontier between 1730 and 1830. Despite the importance of conservationist thought in American environmental history, we know too little about how its major precepts-balance, interrelatedness, and the practical and spiritual importance of nature-were formulated prior to the Darwinian era. The early conservationists deserve more attention because they provided a firm foundation for ideas that took shape and triumphed in the second half of the nineteenth century.
20749674|J. Donald Hughes has been a pioneer among scholars of the environmental history of the ancient world: a prolific writer, he published his seminal work Ecology in Ancient Civilizations thirty-five years ago, and his Pan's Travail: Environmental Problems of the Ancient Greeks and Romans (1996) is already a classic. But, to paraphrase the Roman writer Terence, nothing in the field of environmental history seems to be alien to him. As the interview and the appended bibliography below demonstrate, he has done fundamental work in Native American, Pacific Island, and South Asian environmental history, and in recent years he has undertaken a sweeping environmental history of the Mediterranean (2005) and gone global with An Environmental history of the World (2001). We are delighted that he has agreed to discuss with us the shape of his distinguished career, his participation in the early development of the ASEH, and his aspiration to write a kind of environmental history that combines "the total picture[and] the revelatory detail."
25473105|Many readers of this journal have been inspired by Roderick Nash's Wilderness and the American Mind and The Rights of Nature, two of the foundational texts in environmental history, but some may be less familiar with his role in establishing environmental studies as an academic discipline and with his well-deserved reputation as one of this country's premier whitewater boatmen. In this interview, we ask Nash to talk not only about his path-breaking scholarly work, but also about his passion for the outdoors and his role as an environmental advocate.
23049782|Emphasizing debates about urban animals and habitatparticularly zoo animals, dogs, and geesethis essay argues that ideas about nature and popular ecology after Earth Day emerged in a dynamic with the changing social and material conditions of cities. Using Seattle during the 1970s as a case study, this essay explains how activists, politicians, and planners understood animals as part of a process of reimagining the purpose and shape of urban landscapes during a period of profound social change in Seattle. Natural order, or at least an order that matched the hopes of different stakeholders, was at best complicated and fleeting, and at worst it suggested a coded language for describing enduring race and class anxieties.
25473033|This article explains the ecological history of the brakes of river cane, or "tree grass," that once covered vast areas of the American South and its relationship to the agricultural and economic history of the early South. Cane is a plant of the margins that thrives on disturbance, and the relationship between cane and people in the South was always give-and-take. Ultimately, overgrazing by cattle and systematic clearing to make way for cotton reduced the South's canebrakes to a vestige of their former range.
3986232|Although environmental historians have depended most often on visual evidence, our work and the knowledge of those we study relies upon full-body contact with our surroundings. Our senses carry qualitatively different environmental information. Smells are evanescent. In the safety considerations surrounding a large chemical plant on the Lake Huron shore, transient "whiffs of danger" complicated the regulatory, statutory, and scientific sources of uncertainty. This study of hydrogen sulphide emissions shows how sensory perception is contextually tuned and constrained, and by extension how sensing human bodies are historically specific.
3986230| Recent efforts to build bridges between environmental and labor history have relied primarily on the idea of alienation, a concept that means sharply different things to each subfield and which represents an incomplete foundation for collaboration. Instead, historians need to analyze and historicize geographies of labor. Comprising the spatial, material, and cultural connections between nature and labor, eographies of labor elucidate not only how nonhuman nature and human work have historically become alienated, but also how they have inspired mutually defining visions of redeemed nature and labor, from the 1830s to the present. 
40608501|This essay examines how skilled Mountain West railway workers in Canada and the United States incorporated environmental problems into their work culture. Through experience they developed methods of predicting snow slides and embraced customs that compelled them to work even under the most dangerous conditions. These informal practices, rather than written work rules, guided the decisions they made to offset risk for both their co-workers and train passengers. I argue that living and working in Avalanche Country meant railway workers gained an intimate knowledge of their natural surroundings that clashed with accepted corporate and legal interpretations that saw slides as unforeseeable acts of God. Comparing three avalanche disasters in two countries provides persuasive evidence that occupation and experience influenced notions of risk. Importantly, the significance of my argument lies in its refusal to see industrial workers as detached from nature and for what it suggests about workers in other places and occupations who also likely developed job-specific practices in response to environmental dangers.
3985799|This article identifies sport utility vehicles (SUVs) with postmodern developments in industrial society, automobile manufacturing and marketing, land use, and the environment. A historical backdrop demonstrates links between vehicular systems and conceptions of nature protection: nineteenth-century rail produced monuments at discrete points, whereas the modernist automobile culture of the 1930s-1950s separated nature and urban civilization and created zones of wilderness. Today's SUV culture echoes a more complicated "de-differentiated" ideal that can be approached through advertising slogans and spare-tire covers. Viewed pessimistically, this postmodernism means "no boundaries" in people's exploitation of the environment; more optimistically it means seamlessly integrated concern-even in vehicles.
40608543|The cotton boll weevil's threat to the Yazoo-Mississippi Delta at the start of the twentieth century reveals how the region's elite landowners used racism and social power to maintain control over a vast agro-environment in the face of a potentially devastating natural threat. The insect pest put their cotton kingdom in peril, and planters responded by approaching this beetle not as a natural disaster, but as a human one. Their preparations for the weevil's arrival show that they understood their control over the environment as rooted in their "natural" place atop a social order and labor system based on white supremacy and access to scientific expertise. Planters hoped to protect their place in this order, and thereby defend their cotton from the weevil, by managing knowledge about the insect as a means of controlling farm workers. Building on recent work in southern environmental history, this article uncovers the ways white landowners' ideologies about race and labor shaped their approach to the agro-environment and its pests.
23049857|Early Euroamerican settlers to the tallgrass prairie region of the Midwest considered how the environment benefitted or hindered their fertility. Both men and women sought the prairie as a fertile land for reproduction, and their hopes for progeny shaped the transformation of the prairie ecosystem. The prairie landscape was more than a passive space where humans projected fantasies, however. The prairie may have altered the fertility of Euroamerican bodies, even as it influenced settlers' ideas about sexuality and reproduction. Men and women perceived the tallgrass prairie as possessing the power to affect fertility, and they sought this unique environment for its ability to sustain family farms and a healthy civilization.
3986029|This essay examines the work of wildlife biologist Herbert Stoddard, who came to the longleaf pine-grassland forests of south Georgia in 1924 to study the bobwhite quail, and stayed to develop a method of land management that stressed ecological habitat over the dominant production-oriented model. Stoddard's major early accomplishments were threefold: He helped to create the new profession of wildlife management, he fought for the reintroduction of fire in the longleaf-grassland system, and he was among the first to advocate for ecological diversity in cultural landscapes. His work offers new insight on how conservation played out regionally, suggesting that we rethink the local elements of national conservation policy.
23049784|A careful consideration of how colonial and early Americans discussed weeds lends insight into the ways that common settlers aligned agricultural expectations with ecological realities. Current examinations of transatlantic exchanges of floral biomass have done an admirable job of showing how desirable plants that explorers obtained (and sometimes purloined) on the periphery of the empire enhanced the commercial, medical, and biological interests of the metropolis. A sustained consideration of weeds, however, shifts the focus in valuable ways. For one, it offers a much needed "from the ground up" perspective on a ubiquitous, if not mundane, botanical reality that nearly every settler to some degree or another had no choice but to confront. For another, because weeds were plants that happened to have strong spiritual and metaphorical connotations as a result of the popular Parable of the Tare, they provide the historian a rare opportunity to explore how the spiritual implications of weeds interacted with new world secular rationalizations of them to make sense of a novel environment. And, finally, weeds effectively open the door to subsequent explorations of so many other pervasive ecological realitiesinsects, forest growth, water supplies, fertilizer availabilitythat helped lay the rhetorical foundation for an agricultural system that became exceptional in size, commercial orientation, and wastefulness.
25473195|This essay considers the draining of Sumas Lake, British Columbia, Canada, by the provincial government in the 1920s. I argue that both the B.C. state and local landowners believed in the virtue of the ordered landscape of agrarian ideology. Both supported a quest to order nature that clashed with a disordered and interconnected natural environment, leading to massive cost overruns on the building of drainage works and the creation of farmlands. The state battled local landowners over who would pay for the project. Landowners argued that the drainage had not made their farms more profitable. Yet both groups continued to agree that the drainage represented progress and improvement. The landowners' continued support of the project despite its cost and their meager gains suggests that the problems of the project lay less in the general logic of the state than in the discourse of liberal agrarianism that both supported. The financial and environmental problems of the project owed more to the limits of this shared vision than to inherent limitations in the state's relationship with nature or the local.
25764462|Between 1820 and 1860, the construction of a network of coal-carrying canals transformed the society, economy, and environment of the eastern mid-Atlantic. Artificial waterways created a new built environment for the region, an energy landscape in which anthracite coal could be transported cheaply, reliably, and in ever-increasing quantities. Flush with fossil fuel energy for the first time, mid-Atlantic residents experimented with new uses of coal in homes, iron forges, steam engines, and factories. Their efforts exceeded practically all expectations. Over the course of four decades, shipments of anthracite coal increased exponentially, helping turn a rural and commercial economy into an urban and industrial one. This article examines the development of coal canals in the antebellum period to provide new insights into how and why Americans came to adopt fossil fuels, when and where this happened, and the social consequences of these developments.
23049823|This essay offers an introduction to the much longer story of the emergence and development of habitat as a key concept in environmental science, law, and politics. Since the nineteenth century, naturalists have recognized that habitat could be a limiting factor for wildlife populations. As early as the 1920s, ecologists adopted the concept of habitat as an organizational framework for their field. The advent of wildlife management, in the 1930s, furthered interest in habitat conservation on the public lands. After World War II, administrative agencies and conservation organizations adopted divergent approaches to habitat management, some of which came into conflict. The passage of the federal Endangered Species Act, in 1973, launched a new phase in which land use controversies would increasingly focus on protected species' habitat. Today, environmental groups often present habitat conservation, in the form of land purchases or easements, as the cure-all solution for a wide variety of problems. Habitat protection is a cornerstone of conservation, but it is not a panacea.
23050647|The Second World War drove an unprecedented search for resources at a global scale to supply military activity in Europe, Asia, and beyond. This article contributes to recent debates about the environmental consequences of global warfare by examining how total war produced new commodity chains over distance to deliver scarce military goods to combat zones and how those commodity chains precipitated different social and environmental effects along chains. Focusing on aluminum, a critical mineral used in alloys for aircraft construction, the article traces various stages in its production and processing. From the bauxite mines of British Guiana, through transshipment points on Trinidad, the smelting facilities of Quebec, and the cryolite mines of Greenland, the aluminum commodity chain delivered the consequences of wartime military demand to distant production and manufacturing sites, making the landscapes of war global in reach. Although similar commodity chains existed in the interwar period, the war drove a vast increase in production, militarized the production and transportation of the commodity, and introduced new environmental consequences.
25473326|Contemporary environmental artists are increasingly turning their attention to climate change. Focusing on an exhibition curated by the renowned art critic Lucy R. Lippard, this essay places selected works in dialogue with mass media framings of environmental problems to reveal how contemporary art can generate new ways of seeing global warming. I argue that the show sought to forge perceptual links between local and global environmental change and to use both doomsday and inspiring modes of address in a dialectical fashion. By melding science, aesthetics, and politics in an imaginative way, many of the artists represented the humanistic dimensions of the crisis and, at times, even gestured toward a promising vision of environmentalism.
25473034|This essay examines challenges by the Salt Lake Women's Chamber of Commerce of definitions of conservation, democracy, and the role of the city through the group's efforts to enact air pollution reforms from 1936 to 1945-a time and a place that generally are seen as less than willing to offer women a significant public voice. The Women's Chamber served as a transitional group between pre- and postwar conservationism and environmentalism, suggesting that this period deserves more scholarly study. The case study also advances the links between urban and environmental history.
23049817|The observations of naturalists and explorers have been used as historical sources for determining baseline wildlife conditions from the earliest practice of modern ecology. These sources are rarely critically analyzed, however, and are often incorporated into contemporary scientific literature advocating the conservation and restoration of wildlife. This essay argues that combining approaches from environmental history and recent ecological research will allow for the interrogation of original sources and the application of scientific concepts that questions the assumptions underlying historical baselines.
25473165|Between the 1940s and the 1970s the environment of northern Canada was transformed, physically and politically. Scientists played a variety of roles in this transformation, assisting in forming an administrative regime for the region, as well as, on occasion, critiquing this regime and its environmental implications. These roles were expressed through a series of ideas and images about the northern landscape: as the habitat of wildlife populations that fluctuate dramatically, or conversely, that can be managed to provide a stable yield; and in a second dualism, as a uniquely fragile wilderness or a resource-rich hinterland balancing environmental and development goals. These roles and images were the product of interactions between northern political and economic imperatives, scientists' ideas regarding the theories and methods relevant to the North, and the northern environment itself. Understanding this history requires building bridges between environmental history and the history of science; a chief means by which this is accomplished is through "disciplinary space"-a concept that has broader implications for the practice of history.
3985800|This essay elaborates upon the history of the removal of aboriginal people from national parks through a case study of the exclusion of the Stoney from Rocky Mountains (Banff National) Park in Canada between 1890 and 1920. It argues that the example of Banff National Park suggests that in Canada at least, and probably in the United States, aboriginal people were excluded from national parks in the interests of game conservation, sport hunting, toursim, and Indian assimilation, not to ensure that national parks became uninhabited wilderness.
25473162|This article considers land drainage in the wet prairie region of Manitoba, Canada, from the late nineteenth to the mid-twentieth century. It explains why watershed-based drainage funding, proposed in the early 1920s as a means of financing the more substantial ditching necessary to address the province's drainage problems, was embraced by some Manitobans, resisted by others, and repeatedly rejected by provincial administrators. Federal government settlement policy, on one hand, and communities of interest derived from the local topography of southern Manitoba, on the other, defined the terms of the debate over watershed-based funding. While scientific uncertainty and political change were contributing factors, it was in large part to mitigate conflict between highlanders and lowlanders that the province ultimately assumed a larger role in funding drainage. The history of drainage in Manitoba's wet prairie, while broadening understanding of the challenges of mobile nature amid grid-based agricultural settlement, also illustrates the importance of considering the specific environmental conditions for resettlement and the workings of provincial and municipal governments. At such local scales, the intertwined character of the human and physical landscapes is particularly apparent.
25473168|We lay out a rationale for a new scholarly subfield-the environmental history of the Great Lakes-that Canadian and U.S. scholars can develop together. This project began as an attempt to teach environmental history in a way that stressed the importance of our region to our Wisconsin- and Michigan-based students. But classroom experiences convinced us that Great Lakes environmental history has been neglected, both because of its transnational character and because of biases within the field of environmental history. The Great Lakes have important stories to tell. They are at once representative of the larger narratives of both the United States and Canada, and also demonstrate the exceptional history of each nation. They provide an opportunity to explore comparative and transnational history. The Great Lakes also are fundamentally important in their own right for their industries, environments, and abundant resources.
20749645|This essay is part of a larger project that investigates the environmental effects of mining in Mexico. Although mining played a critical role in the economic, political, and social development of Spanish American colonies, and although it has consequently received extensive attention by historians, there exists no serious study of its environmental dimensions. The study establishes the overall rhythms and scales of fuel wood consumptionthe main source of energy for silver smelting and refiningfor mining districts located along the length of New Spain (Chihuahua to Taxco) from the beginning of colonial mining (1522) to the turn of the nineteenth century. It also details the more local environmental dynamics of mining, describing the practice of charcoal-making, its connection with emerging pastoralism and agriculture, and its social and ethnic dimensions.
20749670|Environmental thought in nineteenth-century America has often been dismissed: either it was strictly utilitarian, or it was oriented exclusively toward wilderness, or it was a nave, nostalgic form of pastoralism. But some evidence supports the flowering of a landscape tradition in the antebellum period that was characterized by a simultaneous engagement with mortality and with the immediate environmental context of ordinary life, by an ecological ethic based on humility, finitude, and integration. The Boston horticulturists who established Mount Auburn, the first garden-style urban cemetery, in 1831, were making a spatial argument about natural limitations. The fantastic success of Mount Auburn then went on to spur a national movement bent on incorporating public green spaces, sites of shadiness, in cities. Until the 1860s, when "the trouble with wilderness" really began, American arcadians of all classes planted gardens next to the graves of their kin and established a new kind of kinship with the land.
23049824|The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is the primary federal agency responsible for conserving wild animals in the United States. Yet it has attracted remarkably little attention from environmental historians. Through the regulations it enforces and the refuges it manages, the agency has had a profound impact on the nation's wildlife. The wildlife history of the United States, particularly in the twentieth century, is intertwined with the story of this agency.
25473032|This essay is about one of the most extraordinary natural events in early American history, the great "Dark Day" of May 19, 1780. On that morning a preternatural gloom settled upon the New England landscape, and by noon the sun had been all but blotted from the sky. Using accounts drawn from contemporary diaries, journals, newspapers, broadsides, and other sources, this essay reconstructs the events of the Dark Day and explores the manifold ways-from theological speculation to amateur scientific inquiry-in which New Englanders sought to explain and rationalize the sudden darkness.
40608503|The out-of-control global carbon cycle is driven not only by greenhouse gas emissions from fossil-fuel combustion but also from accelerated carbon cycling through human-impacted ecosystems. Here I estimate that forests in Utah are currently accumulating atmospheric carbon in biomass, detritus, and soil largely in response to 150 years of domestic livestock grazing, altered fire regimes, and logging. I attribute forest-carbon accumulation, which removes carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, to expanding pin and juniper woodlands and to timberlands regrowing following historical logging. Despite the accumulation of carbon in Utah's forests, this forestcarbon sink compensates for at most 25 percent of statewide greenhouse gas emissions and more likely between 10 percent to 15 percent. This article emphasizes the importance of interdisciplinary study of the global carbon cycle and specifically encourages environmental historians to help natural scientists explore how historical land uses exert long-lasting influence on the atmosphere's concentrations of greenhouse gases.
23049826|Compared to the endangered animals described in Peter Matthiessen's Wildlife in America, the shark that attacked and consumed Robert Pamperin in June 1959 off La Jolla, California, suggests that a creature's silence did not always mean vulnerability or passivity within human histories. To help understand why this shark targeted Pamperin and the more general question of why these animals sometimes attack humans, scientists created the Shark Attack File (SAF) to document as many historical and contemporary shark attacks as possible into legible data sets. To protect people from sharks, the SAF functioned as a model to help translate and predict sharks' behaviors but ultimately privileged environmental conditions and human vulnerability over the possibility of animal agency. Since 1959, many scholars in animal studies have tried to complicate earlier declensionist narratives that portrayed wild animals as passive entities into agents-in-the-world.
23049818|This article targets the political autobiography of David Crockett to uncover the connections between wild animals, African-American slaves, and folksy white power in Jacksonian America. Coleman argues that just as you cannot underestimate the havoc Euro-Americans wreaked on some North American wildlife populations, you cannot oversimplify the causes or the meanings of this violence. Crockett killed bearslots of bears. But he also created a persona that capitalized on its proximity to vermin animals and bound humans. To win elections, he needed to be perceived as an outsider. His close associations with black bears and black slaves helped marginalize and empower him.
25473301|Joachim Radkau is one of Europe's best-known environmental historians. Since becoming an environmental historian avant la lettre in the 1970s, he has published widely on a broad array of topics. In this interview, he talks about the development of his interests, afterthoughts on his books, unintended ventures into politics, and the development of the scholarly community in Germany and Europe. This year, Cambridge University Press published an English edition of his world environmental history, "Nature and Power." Radkau is due to retire from Bielefeld University next year.
25473329|This article examines the First Brazilian Conference on Nature Protection-held in Rio de Janeiro, in 1934, a founding event of the Brazilian environmental movement-in terms of science, policy, and activism. It was called by a small group of natural scientists and associates, responsible for the first modern and systematic statements about the protection of the Brazilian natural heritage. All but forgotten nowadays, the event is examined in several dimensions, based on the proceedings edited by Alberto Jos Sampaio, Brazil's leading botanist at the time. The article argues that the conference provided a sample of the existing modes of environmental concern and that it brought together the most relevant individuals and organizations. It pays attention to a recurrent theme of the need to protect Brazil's natural endowment as a means to provide a basis for the construction of a new, modern Brazilian national identity. Special attention is given to the breadth of environmental concerns addressed in the meeting, to the convergence of different outlooks and proposals, and to the influence of relevant non-Brazilian issues, policies, and organizations. Utilitarian and aesthetic reasons for protecting nature converged toward the construction of a shared project of national economic power, scientific research, and cultural fulfillment.
25473328|The years between the two World Wars were a vital period in the global diffusion and the transnational modification and multiplication of the national park idea. It was during these decades that the American national park system took its distinct shape and the first national parks in Europe were established. At the same time, the science of ecology and ecological attitudes achieved prominence and offered a challenge as well as a new scientific underpinning of the national park idea on both sides of the Atlantic. The implementation of ecological ideas in national park policies, however, varied considerably from place to place. While ecological thinking failed to exert a lasting influence on the development of American national parks before World War II, it was of higher significance in Europe. The Swiss National Park stood out as a nature reserve extensively shaped by scientific theories and practices. The investigation of the intersection of science and national parks in a transatlantic perspective reveals that these variations essentially stemmed from a different role of science and scientists both in the establishment and administration of national parks and in their public justification.
25764490|Donald J. Pisani retired this past spring after twenty years as the Merrick Chair in Western American History at the University of Oklahoma, thirteen years at Texas A&M University, and one year at San Diego State. Known as one of the foremost water policy historians of the American West and a devoted scholar of California history, Pisani holds the distinction of being the only person to have served as president of both the American Society for Environmental History (19971999) and the Agricultural History Society (20062007). Pisani's University of Oklahoma colleague Sterling Evans visited with him about his career in environmental history and his thoughts on the history and future of the field.
25473065|Giant insects, from the ants of "Them!" to the locusts in Beginning of the End, featured prominently in Hollywood's postwar science fiction boom. Critics and historians have invariably interpreted these cinematic big bugs as symbolic manifestations of Cold War era anxieties, including nuclear fear, concern over communist infiltration, ambivalence about science and technocratic authority, and repressed Freudian impulses. This essay argues that Hollywood's mammoth arthropods should be taken more literally, less as metaphors than as insects, and that the big bug genre should be analyzed in the context of actual fears of insect invasion and growing misgivings about the safety and effectiveness of modern insecticides in 1950s and early 1960s America. In movies like "Them!", worries about real-life insects on the loose, notably gypsy moths and imported fire ants, and uneasiness about pesticides like DDT were refracted through a cultural lens colored by superpower rivalries, nuclear proliferation, and a wide range of social tensions.
25764489|In this article I examine three passages of law from early imperial China and argue that their purpose was conservation. I concentrate particularly on one recently discovered set of monthly ordinances, which systematically protected young animals and birds from over-hunting and limited hunting by fire and other activities with the goal of sustainable use. This demonstrates that people in early imperial China were neither unaware of nor indifferent to environmental concerns. However, this sort of regulation did not bring about effective environmental protection in part because limitations in scientific knowledge led to statutes that could not achieve the desired result.
25473166|This article examines the environmental and social impacts of damming the Peace River in northern British Columbia as a way of exploring the challenges associated with doing environmental justice. It argues that environmental justice is not simply a matter of rectifying the distribution of environmental harms and benefits. Instead, doing environmental justice requires coming to terms with the different scales at which environmental change is apprehended and comprehended; scales that have sensual, spatial, and temporal dimensions.
23049854|In the past thirty years, historians have examined many aspects of England's western expansion in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries; however, the environmental history of the English Atlantic has not been extensively studied. This essay examines how English travel writers and colonial propagandists described nature in their Old World colony in Ireland and their New World project in Virginia. These documents provided little accurate information about the physical environment and changes settlers made to it. Nonetheless, they suggest that English ideas about environment were crucial to plantation projects in Ireland and North America. By describing the Irish and Virginian environments, these writers translated foreign and frightening places into terms familiar to English readers from husbandry manuals and conveyed the profits awaiting competent husbands in the new lands. From the first attempt at North American settler colonialism in Roanoke in the 1580s until the Algonquians killed 347 English settlers in 1622, writers used different rhetoric to describe the Irish and Virginian landscapes. In the wake of the so-called massacre, the image of Virginia came to more closely resemble Ireland, following the shift to more militaristic colonialism and increasingly negative views about the Algonquians that followed this violence. The similarity of this rhetoric suggests that after Anglo-Algonquian relations deteriorated, Ireland increasingly served as a model for Virginia.
20749643|As new environmental programs, organizations, and laws proliferated in the late 1960s and 1970s, U.S. President Richard Nixon began using environmental cooperation as part of his foreign policy. But his decision to pair global environmental action with the most powerful military alliance in historyNATOpuzzled nearly everyone, including the NATO allies. Recently scholars have pointed out the role of the Nixon administration in inaugurating "environmental diplomacy," raising the status of environmental accords and winning approbation for global environmental leadership. But most studies have glossed over the role of NATO as Nixon's principal vehicle for East-West cooperation, and have neglected entirely the views, resistance, and downright hostility of the allies to the American style of environmental leadership. In presenting these views, this essay provides a counterweight to existing studies on global environmental action in the years leading up to the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in 1972. The essay shows how Nixon's use of NATO deepened political animosities between East and West, and between North and South, hastening the bloc-to-bloc politicization of global environmental issues.
25473194|The destruction of the nineteenth-century Atlantic halibut fishery occurred in the space of a few decades and without industrial fishing methods. Between the 1840s and the 1880s, halibut moved from by-catch to marketable product. This change from negative commodification to positive commodification resulted from increased immigration, technological advances, changing consumer tastes, and halibut's natural history. Once almost infinitely abundant, commercial value and growing markets led to enthusiastic fishing efforts mid-nineteenth century. Market demand influenced both human behaviors and ecosystems. A series of localized depletions became the commercial extinction of halibut in the northwest Atlantic. The nineteenth-century Atlantic halibut fishery demonstrates how species once considered by-catch can be pushed to commercial extinction.
25473193|Rates of intersexuality, reproductive cancers, and infertility appear to be increasing. Many researchers suspect that a key role is played by endocrine disruptors-the industrial pollutants that mimic hormones and disrupt the endocrine systems that shape sexual development. Yet, for all the concern raised by a flood of experimental research showing endocrine disruption in animals and epidemiological studies suggesting effects on human reproduction, the U.S. government has essentially failed to regulate these chemicals, retreating from a precautionary principle that would require caution in the use of potentially toxic chemicals. Debates in the 1930s and 1940s over the regulation of diethylstilbestrol (DES), the first synthetic estrogen and the first chemical known to act as an endocrine disruptor, show how political pressures, scientific uncertainty, and changing conceptual models of gender and health led to this retreat from precaution.
25473262|In the decades around 1900, native-born Americans and immigrants fought a variety of battles about environmental issues. Those battles had important consequences. The critique of immigrants also reveals that native-born Americans had more complicated views about nature than environmental historians have acknowledged. Though a back-to-nature impulse was a defining characteristic of the Progressive Era, the complaints about immigrants make clear that some forms of closeness to nature made many Americans deeply uncomfortable.
25473134|This essay examines eastern white pine (Pinus strobus L.) removal and recovery on the Bad River Reservation of northern Wisconsin. A key species in the environmental history of the Great Lakes region, white pine has greatly declined as a forest component since Euro-American settlement. Forests eventually did regenerate on much of the cut-over area, but their composition is quite different than the earlier forests, with aspen and other hardwoods dominating, rather than conifers. This interdisciplinary study examines biophysical, social, and political processes that influenced the loss of white pine. We find that on the Bad River Reservation, as across much of the Great Lakes region, the loss of white pine was not a result of the lumber era alone. Changing forest management goals, officials' projections of forest economic values, financial and technical resources available to managers, the political influence of paper companies, and shifts in land ownership composition all played a role in shaping the forests that returned on the reservation.
40608542|Camping began in the nineteenth century as an elite form of pilgrimage to the wild, but the arrival of inexpensive automobiles in the early twentieth century greatly expanded camping's social diversity. The change was not universally embraced, especially when African Americans were involved, and the issue came to a head during the 1930s after two racially segregated national parks were opened in southern states. As complaints flowed in, William J. Trent, Jr., became adviser for Negro affairs to Interior Secretary Harold L. Ickes. He had no special interest in the outdoors or national parks, but Trent championed increased African American access to the parks and an end to discrimination in them. NPS leadership resisted Trent's efforts until Secretary Ickes ordered them to create one nonsegregated demonstration area in Shenandoah National Park in 1939. The policy was extended to other areas in 1941 and the next year, with World War II shifting into high gear, campground and other forms of segregation were ended throughout the park system.
25473038|In this inaugural interview in what is to be an on-going feature, we felt it fitting to talk with Hal Rothman, long-time editor of this journal and its predecessor Environmental History Review. Most readers will be well-acquainted with at least some of Hal's work. The length of his bibliography is a testament to his energy and enthusiasm and to his enormous contribution to the field of environmental history. It also is worth noting the many publications and interviews aimed at a lay audience: Rothman is an inspiring example of a true public scholar, an academic who has been determined to take the riches of our field to a wider audience.
23049856|To raise Thanksgiving turkeys, nineteenth-century farmwomen crossed wild and domestic birds. Today, this custom is largely forgotten, leading many writers to claim that domestic turkeys, the ones purchased every year from supermarkets, are not domesticated from the wild turkey common to the eastern United States but are descended entirely from a Mexican subspecies traded throughout the early modern Atlantic world. By showing that domestic turkeys are, indeed, descended primarily from the eastern wild turkey, this essay restores awareness of the environmental knowledge held by nineteenth-century farmwomen. It also traces how that loss of memory occurred through two channels: the development of twentieth-century wildlife conservation and the simultaneous growth of poultry agribusiness. Neither placed significant value on the knowledge of the farmwomen who preceded them in raising turkeys. The essay concludes by suggesting implications for today's heritage turkeys and the conservation of agricultural biodiversity.
20749672|This article uses the history of bovine epizootics in eighteenth-century Venice to make three interrelated claims about the place of early modern Europe in environmental history. First, that the sudden appearance of severe and recurring zoonotic diseases in northern Italy is a symptom of a much larger shift in European agrarian systems and nutritional habits, and that new markets for beef cattle were springing up in Italy and elsewhere in western Europe. Second, that the agrarian revolution of the eighteenth century was in part the result of a heretofore ignored shifting of environmental costs from western Europe to central Europe. By raising large numbers of beef cattle on the Hungarian plain, Italians and other western Europeans were able to access unprecedented supplies of animal protein without sacrificing any arable land. Third, that the emergence of widespread epizootics in eighteenth-century Europe should force environmental historians to reconsider the ways in which we treat early modern European forms of agriculture, pastoralism, and environmental organization as normative. Rapid and devastating environmental change generated by new biological encounters occurred within Europe itself and not only as a result of European expansion into other parts of the globe.
40608469|Latin American environmental history has traditionally focused on three categories of research: colonialism, capitalism, and conservation. It has also emphasized tragic tales of resource extraction and environmental destruction, primarily at the hands of imperial powers. Though important issues, these stories of degradation and exploitation also constrain the historiography. To broaden the field and push its theoretical grounding in new directions, this essay analyzes environmental history research conducted by nonhistorians. It highlights scholarship in several areas, including the history of natural sciences, cultural landscapes, environmental narratives, nature consumption, disasters, and social history. More dialogue across scholarly disciplines can help historians of Latin America reconceptualize the meaning of "nature," blur nature-culture boundaries, and integrate environmental history with the region's broader historiography.
25473031|Hugh Raup's "Sanderson's Farm" essay is remembered for its vivid account of New England land use history, illustrated by the famous Harvard Forest dioramas. But Raup also used that history to argue that natural resource conservation (particularly as attempted at Harvard Forest itself) had proven a failure, because it assumed economic and ecological stability that was naive and untenable. This article reexamines the history of New England farming and forests, and explores ways in which the current understanding of that history and its implications have been used at Harvard Forest to support a renewed call for wide scale land conservation.
3985740|Until 1803, the island of Tasmania was one of the rare places of human habitation where the dog was unknown. First introduced when British colonists established a penal settlement there, the dog not only completely transformed Aboriginal society but also greatly affected the emerging convict culture. The dog proved more important than guns for kangaroo hunting, allowing the Aboriginals (who soon possessed their own domesticates) to compete successfully with the Europeans in the hunting market. The hunting culture, in turn, greatly slowed down the process of agriculture development, giving rise to a colonial experience that was far different from the typical European pattern.
25473163|This essay analyzes how a popular adjustment to floods gave way to the gradual build-up of vulnerability among the riparian population of the St. Francis River, where flooding events have occurred repeatedly since the middle of the nineteenth century. The need to control the river flow required that the flooding events be framed as a natural catastrophe that threatened the well-being of the population. This was especially the case when a sense of urgency accompanied the flooding events of 1913 and those of 1942 and 1943, and when droughts concurrently incited the regulation of the river flow and of the production of energy for industrial purposes. In both episodes, droughts contributed to the construction of floods as a natural catastrophe because they disrupted economic activities by provoking power shortages.
25764460|In 1992, the Forest Service adopted a new operating policy, Ecosystem Management, which minimized the agency's timber production goals in favor of a more ecologically balanced view of its responsibilities. In explaining this shift, scholars have dismissed the possibility of internal reform, arguing that the Service could not change without irresistible external pressure from environmental activists and new public values supporting biodiversity. Viewing the Service's shift through the lens of the spotted owl controversy, however, demonstrates the important role agency culture played in instigating bureaucratic change. The Service's evolution stemmed from the rising influence of its scientists in policy formation. Their research in support of protecting the owl and the biodiversity of old-growth forests thrived in an agency that nurtured scientific independence, and it thrust them into leadership positions. Forest Service science legitimized the arguments of environmentalists and crystallized public values favoring biodiversity into a new policy.
23049820|This article briefly sketches the history of the terms "wild life" and "wildlife" as they have been used in the United States since the late nineteenth century. It argues that "wild life" began to be used to refer to a class of living things at the beginning of the twentieth century and that it was only in the 1930s that "wildlife," written as a single word, came into widespread usage. The emergence of this concept paralleled the development of the field of wildlife management around the idea that wild living things, as such, could be the objects of human study and control. "Wildlife" solidified divisions between humans and animals, nature and culture, that had been fluid in the late nineteenth century, when it was possible to describe both bears and tourists as enjoying "a taste of wild life." The article concludes with two suggestions: historical research on wildlife would be strengthened by work on the history of the concept of wildlife, and ideas about humananimal relationships that prevailed before the relatively recent emergence of this concept and have persisted in its shadow might provide inspiration for new kinds of wildlife history.
25473330|The environmental history of Lhasa's Lhalu wetland reveals problems with competing ecological nationalist narratives of the Chinese state and Tibetan exiles. Both deny Tibetans the possibility of being historical agents vis--vis nature. The article traces a series of environmental projects enacted on the wetland from the 1950s to the present. Each one, enacted to secure the unstable edges of state sovereignty, ironically paved the way for the next. Certain aspects must be excluded from both ecological nationalist narratives and political ecological analyses because they do not conform to the linear, homogenous times and spaces required by narratives of the nation and universalized "nature." Disrupting these teleologies creates space for a fuller spectrum of accounts, memories, and practices of nature.
3986234|Although the Indian Forest Service was founded on conservationist principles, by the twentieth century it had become almost exclusively devoted to profitable exploitation of the forests it managed. Quantitative content analysis of the service's primary voice, The Indian Forester, correlates the transition from conservation to extraction to shifts from the dominance of generalists to that of bureaucratic specialists, and from ad-hoc holism to reductionism. Growing emphasis on reductionist science reinforced a mental framework inimical to conservationist arguments based on indirect benefits and appeals to precaution. In the broader culture, these arguments resurfaced in reaction to periodic famines, but by the beginning of the twentieth century, they had lost respectability within the Forest Service.
25764463|This essay introduces a new technique to improve the reliability of the interpretation of how weather and climatic factors have influenced past societies. Using the case of first European settlement in Australia, we argue that historians have largely ignored or misconstrued the influence of climate on past societies. We discuss how cool, wet weather during 17881790 (a La Nia) and the drought conditions of 17911793 (an El Nio) compromised initial settlement and agricultural development in the colony. We compare meteorological and palaeoclimatic data with historical sources to investigate how water scarcity has profoundly shaped Australian society since 1788.
25473169|The United States and Canada approach wildland fire differently. Fire matters to both countries for reasons of economics, public safety, duty-of-care to nature preserves, and bureaucratic identity and inertia. A useful survey of their differences could focus on three simple indices: how each assesses fire threats, how each assigns responsibility for fire management, and how each relates fire protection to land use. In all three instances, each country has evolved apparently similar but in reality parallel strategies that, like their shared border, meet but don't merge. These differences reflect larger national traits.
20749673|Standard Western civilizations curricula of the premodern period, while ably incorporating postcolonial, feminist, and ethnic studies scholarship, reflect virtually nothing of the larger cultural consciousness regarding sustainability or the critiques and findings of environmental history. At the same time, world environmental histories tend to treat this period only selectively, do not often engage directly with the current discourses of sustainability, and are not inclined toward the humanities-oriented tasks of deep, sustained reflection on primary texts and historical narratives, the aims of a Western civilizations curriculum. This essay reflects on a course, "Western Civilization and Sustainability: Beginnings to 1600," developed to fill this gap. It describes how a multilayered approach that critically assesses sustainability and pairs traditional and environmental histories with analysis of primary texts has the capacity to reorient historians' questions, narratives, and periodization at the same time that it leads to fertile engagement between environmental history, sustainability, and the humanities.
40608470|This article sheds light on the relationship between the environment and war by examining the role the Alps played for Germans and Austrians in the First World War. The historiography of the Great War often portrays nature as a passive victim. Although it suffered the storms of heavy industry and military technology, the natural world was not just a silent casualty of combat. On the Alpine Front, the mountains played an active and crucial role in the war. The landscape conferred heroic stature on the soldiers who battled on the heights and survived the Alpine extremes. The war also transformed in crucial ways how soldiers conceived of the mountains. No longer viewed as simply the playground of Europe, the peaks became ramparts protecting the borders of an embattled land. The Alps acquired increasingly chauvinistic overtones, all the more so when they endured the onslaught of destruction. Besieged but never broken, the mountains became powerful symbols for those who still dreamt of Germany victorious. The ecological legacy of the First World War in the Alps reveals the lasting cultural and political dimensions of the conflict.
23049827|This article draws together empirical case studies from Britain, France, and the United States to develop the nascent history of landscapes used to prepare for war and national defense. Although environmental historians have explored the environmental impact of war, the military training areas and weapons manufacturing sites that form the focus of this comparative study remain peripheral to the discipline, despite the vast landholdings that militaries deploy in the preparation for war. This essay approaches these important but understudied sites through the lens of four major themesprotesting militarization through eviction, the emergence of military environmentalism, the status and role of nonhuman occupants of militarized landscapes, and cooperation between civilians and the militaryin a broadly chronological comparative study. As these themes reveal, more subtle analysis of the evolving relationship between the military and the environment is required as an antidote to the binary approaches that currently dominate scholarship. Existing perspectives not only tend to lack sensitivity to both time and space but either uncritically claim that military activity is ecologically harmless (or even beneficial) or dismiss the claims of military environmentalism as mere "greenwash."
23049822|This paper explores how naturalists have engaged with the issue of wildlife extinction over the last two centuries. After a long period of resisting the notion of extinction, based on beliefs in the great chain of being and the balance of nature, naturalists finally accepted the idea in the early nineteenth century. By the end of that century, they not only began routinely documenting wildlife extinction but also mobilizing to stop it. That campaign led to a series of state and federal laws that culminated in the Endangered Species Act of 1973, landmark legislation that focused on rescuing individual species for the fate of extinction. A second, less prominent tradition of concern, which developed alongside this individual species approach and focused on the loss of biological communities, has garnered increasing attention in recent years. It remains to be seen, however, whether this more ecological approach to wildlife conservation will garner the political support necessary to implement it fully.
40608479|One of the founders of the ASEH and this journal, John Opie is not only a pioneer in the field of environmental history, but also a gifted photographer. In this wide-ranging interview he discusses, among many topics, the link between his professional interests and his passion for photography, his early years in Chicago, his role in the genesis of this journal, and the themes of his major books and articles. And he speaks candidly, as perhaps only an emeritus professor can, about the motive that inspires all of us: "passion for a better world than we have so far created and endured."
25473298|The period 1965-1980 was a time of dramatic change in the academic discipline of ecology. Membership in the Ecological Society of America more than doubled. This growth was accompanied by spirited debate over fundamental concepts and the intellectual boundaries of ecology. As public awareness of environmental problems grew, ecologists struggled to define their professional identity and their public role in the burgeoning popular environmental movement. The resulting tensions within professional ecology were strikingly evident in the way different ecologists presented the conceptual framework, norms, and goals of their discipline to students through competing college textbooks. This paper explores how the dominant textbook of the 1960s, Eugene Odum's Fundamentals of Ecology, was challenged by a new breed of textbooks, beginning in the early 1970s. Odum's textbook was notable for its emphasis on applied ecology and its presentation of ecologists as expert environmental problem-solvers. The newer textbooks differed from Fundamentals of Ecology both in their strong evolutionary perspectives and their ambivalence toward environmental biology. Ironically, as environmentalism gained increasing public support during the 1970s, many ecologists turned away from teaching environmental issues.
25473263|In response to environmental historians' growing usage of spatial theory and terminology, this essay seeks to clarify the development of terms used to describe state spaces. The essay urges historians to be more deliberate in defining and using spatial terminology, and to give greater consideration to how these concepts have been used in other disciplines. Historians' insights about the contexts and contingencies of the past are critically important for the formation of social and environmental policy, but to matter beyond their discipline, they must better attune themselves to how other scholars and policy makers have been using boundary terminology.
25473264|The Valley of the Sun, a booming metropolitan region of 3.7 million people in a desert that gets seven inches of annual rainfall, has enjoyed an oasis lifestyle during the twentieth century, supported by government-funded reclamation projects and water pumped from aquifers deep underground. Following World War II, groundwater depletion accelerated rapidly, threatening the sustainability of that Sunbelt boom. The state of Arizona, with prodding from the federal government, passed the Arizona Groundwater Management Act of 1980 designed to end groundwater overdraft by 2025. Initially considered a progressive statute, the law has been systematically weakened over the past twenty-five years, increasing water insecurity and delaying necessary conservation and growth control measures.
25473327|Progressive-era conservationists envisioned the physical energy exerted by male bodies as a natural resource. As a result, foresters and rehabilitationists attempted to simultaneously conserve trees and manpower by using wooden prosthetics and vocational training in forestry to reconstruct the bodies of disabled World War I veterans and place them in forest work. Though they mostly failed, their efforts suggest the need for reconsidering the make-up of the conservation movement, the objects of its labors, and potential intersections for environmental and gender history.
23049785|Did the Protestant Reformation inadvertently liberate Northern Europe from a long-standing demographic drain exerted by Rome's indigenous P. falciparum malaria? Perhaps, but the existing scholarship on Northern European travel to Rome is only suggestive, not conclusive. Although the presence of P. falciparum in Rome in historical times is well established, literature on Northern European travel to Rome drawn from scattered and anecdotal evidence, thus rendering inconclusive their finding that Northern European travel to Rome declined after the Reformation. Seeking corroboration, I performed a statistical analysis of travel to Rome using a novel source: names taken from an archive of nearly 3,000 web pages generated by targeted search engine queries in three languages. The highly suggestive results obtained by this method not only support the original thesis, but also might serve as a guide for other scholars seeking data samples for untraditional environmental history research.
23049825|Peter Matthiessen's Wildlife in America says little about the bodily connections between humans and wildlife. But environmental historians' growing interest in health should be extended to wildlife stories because humans' relationships with wildlife have shaped environmental health ideas, policies, and inequalities. Embodied wildlife histories would also encompass many common creatures that are not typically considered wildlife, such as Norway rats. The same processes of urbanization and landscape change that endangered many of the more charismatic species in Matthiessen's account also supported synanthropic species like rats and white-tailed deer, and increased contact between them and human communities. Histories of zoonotic diseases such as plague and encephalitis that jump from wildlife to humans in cities and exurbs can shed light on similar threats that have recently arisen, including Lyme disease and West Nile virus.
23050648|This article examines the history of how Chinese pig breeds came to Europe and later America. While Asian hogs were domesticated for feeding on waste and agricultural by-products, ancient European hogs had to range in forests for mast, producing a leaner, more wild type. As European forests were cleared, mast feeding came under recurring pressure, creating incentives for improved swine management and breeding. In the eighteenth century, as Northern European agriculture intensified, Chinese pigs were imported to create improved varieties first in England and then in America. These new breeds, with their enhanced capacity for rapid weight gain, played a vital role in the pig's transformation from a small-farm subsistence animal into an industrial meat producer. The article analyzes this history of pig breeds as a microcosm of early modern globalization and the emergence of industrial capitalism, as well as a case study of how interdisciplinary evidence and evolutionary perspectives can contribute to the emerging field of animal studies.
25764461|For over forty years, the Hanford Nuclear Reservation produced plutonium for the American nuclear arsenal, generating significant radioactive waste in the process. The reasoning behind why these radioactive releases occurred has been the subject of intense debate since the government's first admission of waste management problems in the 1980s. Scholars and activists have argued that Hanford management intentionally endangered the health and safety of regional inhabitants because of a culture of secrecy and an overwhelming emphasis on achieving plutonium production goals. I argue instead that in Hanford's first decade of development, when scientists and engineers developed many crucial waste management practices, the site's environmental policies were actually well-intentioned but also informed by pre-existing standards of industrial safety that usually emphasized worker safety over broader ecological concerns. When managers did consider the impact of radioactive waste off-site, they demonstrated a utilitarian bias that was overly concerned with protecting the region's commercially valuable livestock and fish populations.
25473161|Ecological imperialism is one of the most enduring models of past global environmental change. This essay argues that the application of ecological imperialism as an explanation for New World environmental change should not be limited to temperate regions where the process was so spectacularly successful. Using the Canadian North as a broad regional template, our analysis suggests that consideration of both the failures and the limited successes of ecological imperialism are critical to a more complete understanding of global colonialism. Although the Canadian North was never subject to the broad ecological transformation that occurred further to the south, attempts to colonize particular regions did occur in tandem with the successful introduction of alien species. Ecological imperialism need not be conceptualized solely as an all-encompassing process of biological transformation. Instead, efforts to colonize peripheral nontemperate regions can be understood as a product of a limited application of ecological imperialism in a New World environment.
20749671|Despite a recent surge in scholarship on the incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II, few historians have adopted an environmental perspective. This article brings the natural world to the center of the story and demonstrates how the environment shaped this notorious episode in American history. The War Relocation Authority, the federal agency that oversaw the camps, tried to control Japanese Americans by isolating them in remote areas and enlisting their labor to improve the land and maintain facilities. To resist and endure their incarceration, Japanese Americans both established intimate connections to nature and sometimes refused to work when demanded. Ultimately, the natural world served to complicate power relations at the Japanese American incarceration camps, ensuring that WRA control over the detainees was not absolute.
25764486|The Boy Scouts of America's emphasis on the simultaneous conservation of boyhood and natural resources prompted its phenomenal growth and broad range of popular and governmental support, challenging studies arguing that popular environmental activism and cooperation between men and women environmentalists declined between 1913 and 1932. Early Boy Scout officials claimed that conserving natural resources taught members the expert management, scientific efficiency, and civic responsibility needed to balance virility and Victorian self-control and to maintain leadership of a modernizing society. The Boy Scouts' "modest manliness" also suggests a different mainstream resolution to middle-class men's anxieties in this era from the virile primitivism through strenuous sports or playing Indians and pioneers outdoors stressed by most gender historians.
23049819|Wild animal abundance and scarcity have been key to religious and secular visions of the American future for centuries, and changes in their meanings reflect radical shifts in understandings of nature and progress. In the colonial era, the extirpation of wildlife was a sign of the fulfillment of prophecy and the conquest of Indians. But by the late nineteenth century, fears of wildlife decline were so great as to render the Ghost Dance, an American Indian prophecy of game abundance, oddly resonant for a broad swath of Americans. More recently, secular scientific predictions of wildlife extinction inspired such writers as Paul Shepard, Rachel Carson, Peter Matthiessen, and Cormac McCarthy to contemplate (and sometimes to prophesy) global extinctions.
3985802|Through a case study focusing on southeastern France, this article traces the history of French forests during World War II. For the Vichy regime the forest was not only a vital source of replacement products in a time of severe shortages, but also a habitat that could symbolize elements of Vichy's reactionary worldview. However, from late 1942 onward, resistance movements began physically and imaginatively to reclaim the forest from Vichy, turning it into a space of revolt and subversion. German and Italian occupation challenged French control of the forest, undermining Vichy's production drive, and turning forests into sites of armed conflict. By arguing that forests were an integral component of France's wartime history, this essay contributes to both the established historiography on Vichy France and the emerging literature on environmental histories of war.
25473234|"Milton in Yosemite" investigates the reasons why certain English and American visitors to Yosemite so often described the valley in religious terms, particularly in terms of an Eden. Reformed Protestantism developed a peculiarly strong nostalgia for Eden that John Milton gave a powerful form in "Paradise Lost." The poem's influence on Reformed culture in England and America reached Yosemite via three important paths: landscape architecture, landscape art, and literature. "Paradise Lost" had an especially large impact on the thought and works of John Muir. The conventions of the Miltonic Eden established in the nineteenth century continue to inform the dominant ways Americans envision Yosemite and the national parks today-for example, in the continued popularity of the work of Ansel Adams.
25764487|When Congress passed the National Trails Act of 1968, the Appalachian Trail shifted from being a regional grassroots endeavor to being part of the national park system. As the National Park Service began to acquire land for the corridor, private citizens who once maintained the trail through informal handshake agreements became directly involved in one of the most complex federal land acquisition programs in U.S. history. Local communities responded to the unusual public-private partnership in a variety of waysfrom cooperation to contestation. This analysis reveals the relational, complex, and fluid nature of the categories of "public" and "private" and demonstrates how a dynamic interplay of power and authority between different interests blazed the way for the kinds of public-private partnerships that have come to characterize twenty-first century environmental policy.
20749644|Historical thinking shapes climate and energy policy in the United States, yet few historians participate in these public debates. History guides policy choices, inspires proposals for action, and structures institutional development. Historical myths also valorize a free market in energy, helping to block legislative initiatives. Yet the history of energy transitions, and government's role in energy markets, support forceful governmental action for climate stabilization. Historians must ensure that climate and energy debates reflect a fundamental historical truth: our energy system embodies political power and social values as much as the latest engineering and science.
25473130|In recent decades, glaciers have become both a key icon for global warming and a type of endangered species. But to understand why glaciers are so inexorably tied to global warming and why people lament the loss of ice, it is necessary to look beyond climate science and glacier melting-to turn additionally to culture, history, and power relations. Probing historical views of glaciers demonstrates that the recent emergence of an "endangered glacier" narrative stemmed from various glacier perspectives dating to the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries: glaciers as menace, scientific laboratories, sublime scenery, recreation sites, places to explore and conquer, and symbols of wilderness. By encompassing so many diverse meanings, glacier and global warming discourse can thus offer a platform to implement historical ideologies about nature, science, imperialism, race, recreation, wilderness, and global power dynamics.
25764485|For much of American history, environmental protection and federal power have been two peas in a pod. This was especially true after World War II, as economic prosperity created a vast middle class that demanded environmental "beauty, health and permanence" (in Samuel Hays's words) as an indispensable part of its consumer lifestyle and expected government to secure them. The result was the birth, in Adam Rome's phrase, of the "environmental management state" in the 1960s and early 1970s as environmental protection took its place alongside national defense and social welfare as a major federal responsibility. Arizona Senator Barry Goldwater began his political career in the midst of postwar environmentalism's birth and growth. As a Westerner, a businessman, and a political conservative deeply mistrustful of the federal government, Goldwater seems an unlikely candidate for any environmental sympathies, especially of the federal-regulatory variety, but a close look at his life reveals a man with a complex relationship with the natural world, environmentalism, and the environmental management state. In the end, Goldwater went to his grave without ever fully coming to terms with the tensions between his environmentalist sympathies and his conservatism, but nevertheless his environmental odyssey tells us a lot about the depth and breadth of postwar environmentalism in the United States, as well as the changing conservative movement and the Republican Party.
3985803|This essay identifies the major trends and theoretical underpinnings of South African environmental history, and places them within the context of recent political, social, and economic developments in the post-apartheid era. Skeptical about Western conservation models, attentive both to the concerns of local communities and to transnational themes, and alert to issues of power, space, agency, and identity, this new historiography has reconfigured the colonial past in environmental terms and set an ambitious agenda for future research.
23049781|Despite over a century of conservation efforts and scientific forest management, a keystone nut tree common to California and southwestern Oregon is threatened by the 1995 introduction of an exotic disease. This is after decades of overharvesting of bark for industrial tanning beginning with American settlement, then of a full-scale tanoak eradication campaign by the mid-1900s. In addition to herbicide use, twentieth-century fire suppression favored conifers over tanoak. This article explores the limits and failures of governmental regulation to reverse devastating assaults on tanoak by examining the interplay of economic, ecological, and cultural factors that informed use and abuse.
25473131|Popular education was one of the most important elements of Progressive Era conservation. But what kind of education produced conservationists? Bird Day was typical of efforts in popular education in that it attempted to inculcate both moral passion and scientific objectivity in children and the wider public. Bird Day highlights the uneasy relationship between progressive conservationists and objective, quantifiable science, particularly the struggle by conservation activists to embrace the rational qualities of the scientific endeavor without sacrificing the emotional fervor that motivated popular interest in conservation.
3986027|In the decades around 1900, middle-class women were indispensable in every environmental cause in the United States, and they often justified their activism as an extension of traditionally feminine responsibilities. The prominence of women as advocates of environmental reform posed a challenge for men who sought to stop pollution, conserve natural resources, and preserve wild places and creatures. How could they make their case without losing their masculine authority? Men responded to that challenge in several ways, and their responses shaped both the rhetoric and institutional structure of environmental reform for much of the twentieth century.
20749669|In spring 1970, millions of people took part in thousands of Earth Day teach-ins, protests, and celebrations across the United States. Yet we know remarkably little about those events. We also have not thought enough about the significance of the first Earth Day. Earth Day 1970 was not just an unprecedented demonstration of public support for environmental protection. Earth Day was a massive mobilizing effort: In many ways, Earth Day nurtured the first green generation.
3986030|Historical accounts of the development of a modern science of aquaculture have tended to focus upon one or two states, particular interest groups, and, or, specific species of fish. This small and narrowly focused body of literature has left the existence of a broader movement, one that ultimately spanned the entire globe by the second half of the nineteenth century and included many dozens of aquatic species, largely unappreciated and unexamined. This essay highlights the significance of the French origins of that modern aquacultural revolution and traces the movement's diffusion into wider Western intellectual and ecological peripheries.
25473167|Given the low standard of contact between environmental and military historians, it is unsurprising, if regrettable, that the relationship between military activity and natural landscapes in Canada has received minimal scholarly attention. This paper seeks to open space for such an environmental history of militarism and militarization. Focusing on the Cold War and its aftermath, the essay documents the history of military activity on Canadian soil, with an emphasis on the North, specifically examining a set of crucial projects and operations that redefined not only physical terrain but associated imaginative understandings of nature. The history of Cold War Canada is littered with suitable examples, from early military exercises and the construction of the Distant Early Warning (DEW) radar line to more recent missile tests and low-level training flights. While it is crucial that these are understood in environmental terms, a genealogy of military activity in the Canadian North reveals changing and at times contrasting approaches to the military-environment relationship. Equally, however, as northern nature was viewed through a series of shifting strategic perspectives, it remained a target of state-driven modernization linked consistently to military objectives.
3985738|State scientific surveys are underexplored territory in environmental history, an oversight made more glaring since these projects were rich in their assumptions, methods, and legacies. This article examines Virginia's 1830s Geological Survey, asking why the state sought its benefits, how the project was organized, and what specific social and technical activities it comprised. The survey, all told, is indicative of a budding interest in and acceptance of science as a valid means to describe the environment.
25473133|The atomic scientists' intense fascination with nature helped them to produce the knowledge necessary to create the bomb. These physicists, chemists, and mathematicians believed that nature should be reduced to its essential parts, observed, explained in terms of laws, and manipulated for human purposes. Their relationship to nature, however, included more than just this instrumental mentality and method, which alone were insufficient to yield scientific insights. Walking, hiking, and mountain climbing loosened the scientists' minds and helped them to think about atoms and subatomic particles. More important, the scientists' deep feelings about nature-curiosity and emotions generally known as wonder-inspired them to undertake the research that eventually informed their Manhattan Project work. By describing a little-known side of the bomb, this essay advances a recent scholarly trend toward studies of the hidden or unexpected environmental features of America's atomic project.
25473138|Retirement has obviously not diminished the intellectual creativity of Samuel P. Hays, one of the founders of our field. In this interview, we asked Sam to discuss how his personal and academic experiences have shaped his choice of scholarly topics from his first major publication, Conservation and the Gospel of Efficiency (Harvard, 1958), to his most recent one, Wars in the Woods (Pittsburgh, 2006).
25473197|Donald Worster has been a powerful voice for environmental history within the United States and around the world for more than three decades. His scholarship, along with his many public talks and addresses, have alerted historians, scientists, policy makers, and environmental activists about the rich insights that our field offers to anyone concerned with the relationship of humans and nature. This interview explores the personal and intellectual sources of Worster's scholarship and thought, and his ideas about future directions of the field.
25473192|In 1996 Forest & Conservation History and "Environmental History" Review merged to form "Environmental History." As a continuation of these earlier journals, in 2007 "Environmental History" celebrated fifty years of publication. The scope of coverage of the journal and its predecessors changed over time, reflecting not only the emphases of their various editors but also the evolution of the societies behind the journals and of environmental history itself. The merger was not accomplished without strain. The haste with which it was done and the differing cultures of the sponsoring organizations, the Forest History Society and American Society of Environmental History, created problems that were difficult to overcome, but in the end not intractable. Today not only the journal, but both societies are larger and stronger than ever.
25473035|This essay argues that environmental history has not engaged as fully with social and political theory as it might, and that once it does, environmental historians will find that their concerns are, potentially, much closer to the mainstream of thought in the social sciences and humanities than they might have expected. In fact, environmental history has the promise to be central to the most influential social thought in the academy and among policy makers. The field also needs to consider the roles of knowledge and science, or "knowledge regimes," in translating scientific "facts" into politically realizable decisions.
25473066|Environmental debates are greatly indebted to artistic communication. This article discusses the work of the former faculty member of the German Bauhaus school, Herbert Bayer, who introduced modernist imagery in relation to globalization, conservation values, and maps dealing with environmental concerns in the United States. His Romantic defense of environmental design demonstrates that the humanist legacy of modernism has made more constructive contributions to the history of environmental debate than its critics have been willing to admit. Bayer's global humanism and environmental designs created a visual language of colors, images, symbols, and dynamic illustrations that aimed at harmonizing human relationships with the natural world.
25473237|This essay describes the conservation history of California's hardwood rangelands: a vast region of oak woodland, grassland, and chaparral vegetation that occurs almost entirely on private property. Conservation has played as important a role in the history of California's privately owned hardwood rangelands as it has on the neighboring public lands administered by the U.S. Forest Service. The story of the hardwood rangelands, which includes a long history of cooperative conservation, challenges the conflict narrative of western rangeland history. It also demonstrates that neither local private control nor centralized public administration offers a panacea for range management.
40608499|Wildlife literature, photography, and film on Africa have long been popular in Western countries and beyond. Academic literature on visual representations of Africa discusses how the camera has colonized and possessed African people, nature, and places. Both James Ryan and Paul Landau have developed Susan Sontag's analogy of shooting with camera and rifle, comparing the power dynamics at work. Our aim is to expand interpretations of media on African wildlife, and to understand them in the context of more complex and changing power relationships rather than to focus simply on their imperial and neocolonial dimensions. Visual images included universalist ideas and approaches that in part grew out of scientific concerns. Literature and film found resonance with popular audiences and helped to shape new attitudes and approaches to animals. We suggest that these media representations were a significant, and neglected, element of modern environmentalism. They were generated in Africa and celebratory of its animals and landscapeand sometimes of its people. This was a new aesthetic arising from a Western vision but powerfully influenced by locations, animals, and people in Africa.
25473299|This text examines selected writings produced by four leading Brazilian conservation scientists active in the 1920s, 1930s, and 1940s. Alberto Jos Sampaio (1881-1946), Armando Magalhes Corra (1889-1944), Cndido de Mello Leito (1886-1948), and Frederico Carlos Hoehne (1882-1959) were prominent members of a "second generation" of Brazilian conservationists. Although they died on the average about sixty years ago, they have receded from memory and their publications have become all but inaccessible. We argue that their ideas, research, and institution-building efforts were highly pertinent and influential in their own time and remain valuable today as building blocks of Brazilian conservation awareness and policies. This article brings together biographical and professional data about each author and examines the texts that best illustrate their range of concerns, their sources, and their priorities in the field of nature conservation.
23049821|This essay argues that mainstream, primarily white, America has historically not valued common fish in the same ways as other more charismatic species, particularly land and sea mammals. The physical characteristics of an animal, its habitat type, its commercial value, and ideas about property in animals all may have influenced popular perceptions of aquatic versus terrestria species. These issues have, in turn, greatly influenced regulatory and conservation efforts for some species.
20749647|Twenty years ago, in a review of a book of essays on environmental history edited by Donald Worster [The Ends of the Earth, 1988], William H. McNeill wrote: "The question of whether there is a new field of environmental history with a sufficient body of shared ideas to become a coherent sub-discipline has not really been answered. Whether [environmental historians] will revolutionize the study of history, as Worster says social historians did a generation ago, or merely fragment it by creating another coterie of specialists who read one another's writing and not much else, remains to be seen. But the elementary fact that human beings share the earth with other forms of life, and have from ancient times been capable of altering natural balances more drastically than any other species has ever done, surely ought to become part of all historians' consciousness." We are delighted that, two decades after this initial assessment, Professor McNeill, a pioneer in the field of world history, has agreed to discuss the current convergence between world history and environmental history, as well as the shape of his own distinguished career.
25473132|Long shrouded in a cocoon of national-security secrecy, the history of the Lake Ontario Ordnance Works site in western New York sheds light on the enduring environmental, political, and social costs of victory in World War II and the Cold War. A micro-study of a nuclear waste site, this article analyzes connections among U.S. nuclear weapons waste management and the environment, local politics, grassroots activism, and international diplomacy. Ultimately, it argues that a spirit of patriotic sacrifice, combined with a culture of secrecy, overrode concerns about safety. The end result of that sacrifice is today a legacy of environmental contamination and the progressive decline of local democratic controls over natural resources.
40608544|The California redwoods have long been the subject of conflict, but after 1970 the fights were transformed when citizens leveraged the courts to challenge California's corporatist timber regime, with its focus on timber production. The history of the legal campaign highlights the need to focus on local aspects of modern environmental history. Unlike the typical narrative about the nationalization and professionalization of modern environmental politics, the redwood battles reveal persistent insurgence, intense local activism, and the breakdown of a corporatist, production-focused governance tradition. The history of the legal fights over the redwoods also points to the national consequences, most of them unintended, of the local activism. The current literature prioritizes litigation efforts that enforced and clarified particular aspects of the modern environmental protection regime, not litigation that transformed governance. This essay focuses on the eight most important cases in the movement to reform California forestry governance. Because the local citizens' movement set its sights on the transformation of institutions, increased regulation of private property, and giant redwoods, it led to, and was part of, one of the most important environmental battles of the late twentieth century.
25473265|In 1969, Cleveland's Cuyahoga River caught fire and burned for about twenty minutes, damaging two railroad trestles. After initially receiving little local news coverage, the fire evolved into an iconic event of the environmental crisis. Significantly, the river had caught fire at least nine times before 1969. Why, then, did the 1969 fire garner so much interest? We argue that the growing importance of the burning river reveals one consequence of the long, wrenching process of deindustrialization in Cleveland and much of the United States. Press coverage of the earlier fires focused on economic issues. The Cuyahoga and its industrial flats were at the heart of Cleveland's economy; the area's docks, railroads, warehouses, and refineries were essential to the city's well-being. By the 1970s, however, as the 1969 fire story evolved, the flats were rapidly emptying, as were nearby neighborhoods. No longer did most Clevelanders make their living near the industrial river. From a greater physical and psychological distance, then, the burning river looked much more troubling than it had close up in an earlier era. Cleveland's postindustrial sensibilities-like those of the nation as a whole-created new meanings for the Cuyahoga and its 1969 fire.
3986031|The ocean may be the next frontier for environmental historians. People have depended on the ocean for centuries and quietly reshaped it. Recently the tragic impact of overfishing, habitat destruction, and biological invasions has become apparent. Yet the history of human interactions with marine environments remains largely uninvestigated, in part because of the enduring assumption that the ocean exists (or existed) outside of history. Historians should take seriously the challenge to historicize the ocean. That will include investigating its changing nature and peoples' historically specific assumptions about using and regulating it. Arguing that marine environmental history can complement on-going research in historical marine ecology, this essay invokes recent scientific work while staking out distinct terrain for historians.
23049855|Literature has for more than a century been Americans' primary means of informal education about nature, and Edwin Way Teale's four books on the seasons, published between 1951 and 1965, constituted a high point in that period. With their immense popularity and rapid eclipse by environmentalism, they offer a window on postwar views and experiences and also show continuity and change in perspectives across the environmental divide. Literature still served as an inducement to conservation and still used natural history to organize experience in nature and reflections on its meaning. It discarded, though, the objective, detached narrators of Teale's generation, focused less on wild nature and more on humans in nature, and with global warming and biodiversity loss is taking on new themes and even new forms.
23049853|In the second half of the eighteenth century, Russian fur traders in the North Pacific decimated marine mammal populations, a loss made easier to observe by the region's island geography. At the same time, European and Russian observers on several Russian-sponsored voyages of exploration noted the extinction and near extinction of these animals with alarm. In their published accounts of their voyages, these observers linked the extinction to the poor environmental ethos of the Russian Empire. This history provides another example of the power of colonial locations to influence European environmental discourses and demonstrates that extinction had become a European concern earlier than previously suspected.
23049815|Historians who have written about wildlife in North America have told their stories in many ways: as tales of ecological decline, tragedies of the commons, chronicles of scientific discovery, parables of ethical redemption, clashes of values, reorganizations of spatial relationships, expansions of federal authority, and struggles of conservation versus social justice. This essay introduces the "Fifty Years of Wildlife in America" forum. The forum includes ten short articles that consider the legacy of Peter Matthiessen's classic 1959 book, Wildlife in America, explore how wildlife scholarship has changed in the half century since, and chart new directions for historical research on the interactions between people and wild animals on the continent.
25473164|For two centuries, each surge of city-building has consumed massive amounts of raw materials and restructured flows of materials, as merchants and manufacturers reached out to capture resources from greater distances but persisted in accumulating a large share of the wastes close to home. Eight such surges of growth can be seen, and synchronized, in Baltimore, Maryland, and Montreal, Quebec. The environmental impacts are marshalled to appeal for more attention to material flows at scales that reflect the boom-and-bust context of urban decision making.
25764488|On October 20, 1948, the Soviet government announced the world's first state-centered program to reverse human-induced climate change, a grandiose plan to construct 5.7 million hectares of forest in the Russian south. However, the plan collapsed upon Stalin's death in 1953 because of a fundamental contradiction at the plan's heart. At first, the Stalin Plan advanced a basically conservative vision of restoring the steppes to an imagined prehistoric state, but soon a group of radical scientists advancing untested silvicultural theories managed to take control. The resulting struggle between the old approach and the new brought about the plan's collapse.
25473235|When Zionism emerged in Europe as the Jewish people's national movement at the advent of the twentieth century, its political leaders and ideological visionaries were concerned about defining an appropriate relationship between Jewish settlement in Palestine and the "Land of Israel." Just as it sported a rich variety of political camps and philosophies, Zionism did not embrace a monolithic "environmental ethic." The perceptions and attitudes toward the natural world and the role of human intervention in the reclaiming of Jewish people's ancient homeland evolved dramatically as the pioneering community became more familiar with the country's physical realties and the agrarian economy became more industrialized. Yet, the initial "technological optimism," which informed the European founders' strategy for settlement in the Middle East, persisted and influences responses to growing environmental challenges in Israel today.
23049828|In early October 1969, Badische Anilin and Soda Fabrik Company (BASF) announced plans to build a petrochemical plant near Beaufort, South Carolina. Overwhelmingly supported by state officials, the plan attracted opposition from developers and residents of nearby resorts on Hilton Head Island. Early in the debate, advocates and opponents of the plant clashed mainly over the type of development best suited for Beaufortmanufacturing or recreation. Yet each side changed their framing as they sought to attract national support. By 1970 opposition groups reached out to the burgeoning national environmental movement by discussing the controversy in terms of the environment. Supporters of the facility stressed the plant's role in combating poverty and providing economic aid to Beaufort's sizable poor population. The controversy therefore pitted two of the largest movements in the twentieth century against each other: the eradication of poverty and environmentalism. This study therefore reveals the strength of the environmental movement both regionally and nationally, and how environmentalism was beginning to compete with other major issues on the national agenda. It also complicates the usual portrayal of environmentalists and reveals the competing motives and visions that often made up environmental campaigns.
23050646|Between 1875 and 1900 advocates of green space in London converted nearly a hundred graveyards into public gardens or playgrounds. This article examines why and how this transformation in urban land use occurred. Incorporating changes in ideas about the body, disease, environment, and religion, it argues that a radically new understanding of the corpse and of burial emerged in Britain during the late nineteenth century. Instead of regarding the disintegration of the corpse with horror and trying to arrest it, many came to see the process as essential to the balance of nature. They argued that the planting of grass, plants, and trees was necessary not only to purify the air of unhealthy gases, but also to speed the transformation of the human body into its constituent elements and thus complete the circulation of matter between the animal and vegetable worlds. Although some critics maintained that the creation of recreation areas in burial grounds was both disrespectful and unhealthy, the proponents of graveyard conversion secured both popular support and parliamentary sanction for their efforts.
3986233| As it sought to reconfigure the natural environment and simultaneously create new citizens in the USSR, Joseph Stalin's dictatorship strongly emphasized the conversion of children to socialism. Representations of nature in Stalinist children's literature encompassed not only crude propaganda, but also less adversarial, more scientific expressions of human entitlement vis--vis the environment as well as a small but significant number of apolitical celebrations of nature. In so doing, early Soviet children's literature demonstrated the limitations of dictatorial power as well as its extent. 
23049783|Through looking at the growth of international waste recovery and waste dumping in the 1970s and 1980s, this paper considers one aspect of the mixed environmental legacy of the oil crisis. The author examines discussions about waste recovery and waste dumping in concert with metaphors of "wasting" and "recycling" to look at how domestic U.S. economic concerns dramatically shaped economic relationships between the global North and South in regards to not just resources but refuse. This paper argues that, while there was indeed a growing awareness in the West about resources and resource recovery, more than promoting conservation, the oil crisis coerced cash-strapped developing countries into accepting the West's excess waste. The ultimate result has been both ingenious and very hazardous "recycling" practices.
40608500|The failure of the Mexican government to agree to a joint park along the border with the United States has been portrayed as a lack of consciousness about conservation within Mexico. Yet in the 1930s the Mexican government created and administered forty national parks elsewhere in the country. The absence of a joint border park gives cause to examine the larger historical context to compare interpretations of national parks and reasons for their incompatibility. Detailed correspondence and discussions of the failed border park project reveal the agenda of Mexican officials and the ways in which they differed from and argued with their counterparts in the United States. This article argues that the international park failures had less to do with Mexican incompetence or insufficient funds and more to do with Mexican opinions on the environment and on their perceived purposes of nature protection. Among other factors, the Mexican style of conservation valued central landscapes, easy access, and forest restoration over remote wilderness. Culturally distinct definitions of conservation and different interpretations of national parks precluded the creation of an international border park, despite years of negotiation.
25473333|Susan Flader, professor emerita of western and American environmental history at the University of Missouri, has published seminal works on Aldo Leopold's life and thought, on forest history, and the history of parks. In this wide-ranging interview, she discusses the origins and development of her work on Leopold, the early years of the American Society for Environmental History (of which she is a past president), her activities as a citizen-activist, and the role of the humanities in shaping her work as an environmental historian.
20749641|In the years 1886-1889, George Bird Grinnell, conservationist and editor of Forest and Stream, founded the Audubon Society and edited The Audubon Magazine. During this period he encouraged women to contribute to both journals and enlisted their help in saving avifauna by halting the wearing of bird feathers in hats. In so doing he helped to bridge the gender divide in conservation. A gendered dialectic emerges during the 1880s-1900s that moves back and forth between male and female blame and responsibility, to female activism, and finally to women and men working together to reenergize the Audubon movement, form Audubon societies, and pass laws to halt the trade in feathers and preserve birdlife.
40608471|U.S. foresters built the first federal tree nursery in the treeless Nebraska Sand Hills, in 1902, and began planting a forest in the surrounding grasslands. This forest was built to be a technology that would produce timber, ameliorate the climate, and attract settlers to the area. Over the course of a century foresters gained a unique ecological perspective by creating rather than harvesting a forest. As a technology and an ecosystem, designed by humans but shaped by ecological process, this forest defies the boundaries of natural and artificial.
40608506|"It is not often," John O'Neill has observed, "that a historian coins a new phrase that becomes standard shorthand for some complex phenomenon, but today almost every practicing historian in the U. S., and many overseas, recognize the words The Columbian Exchange."' Yet Alfred W. Crosby's book of that title, now indisputably a classic in the field of environmental history, could not find a publisher for several years before it appeared in 1972. In this interview, Crosby discusses the personal and professional background behind his emergence as an environmental historian, comments on the half-dozen major works he has produced since The Columbian Exchange, and offers some shrewd advice for younger practitioners of the craft. The field of environmental history is fortunate to have had among its founders a number of historians who write with elegance, wit, and verve about topics of the largest import. Alfred W. Crosby is surely one of them, and the editors are deeply grateful for the opportunity to interview him about the shape of his career and the state of the field.
3986231|His reputation as "the Peanut Man" notwithstanding, George Washington Carver was very much a part of the nascent conservation movement during the Progressive Era. From the Tuskegee Institute, he sought to persuade black farmers that altering their environmental behavior could mitigate, to some extent, the economic and political vicissitudes they faced as a result of their race. His campaign on behalf of impoverished black farmers provides an instructive case study of how one strand of Progressive conservation was undone by its failure to adequately navigate the intersection of the South's land use and social and political institutions.
40608502|The Love Canal chemical disaster marked a signal moment in the American environmental movement. The disaster was "discovered" in 1978, when residents and the public realized that over 22,000 tons of hazardous wastes had been buried in the LaSalle neighborhood of Niagara Falls, New York. Contrary to accepted understandings of the disaster, an interfaith coalition called the Ecumenical Task Force of the Niagara Frontier offered the first arguments for state intervention on the basis of social justice principles, and called for governmental and corporate responsibility in resolving the environmental damage. The group gave significant aid to Love Canal residents under the guise of disaster relief, a traditional religious activity. In the process, the Task Force evolved from simply offering monetary aid to advocating for the community, affecting local and state environmental policy, and connecting the disaster to broader issues. This research recovers a mostly forgotten actor involved in Love Canal's grassroots activism, one whose presence significantly alters our understanding of the event. The group's presence marks an important development in postwar social activism with one of the first appearances of religiously based environmental activism. The research contributes to environmental history, religious history, and modern U. S. history.
25473236|Beginning in the 1920s, the convergence of ecological transformations that originated in China and Japan gave rise to protracted disputes over yellow croaker fishing grounds off of China's southeast coast. These conflicts highlight the importance of transnational perspectives in marine environmental history. Geopolitics influenced patterns of marine resource exploitation, as Japan's diplomatic and military advantage prevented the Chinese government from excluding the Japanese fleet from yellow croaker fishing grounds. Motivated by a mutual understanding of fishery expansion as a way to strengthen the nation-state, Chinese and Japanese exploitation hastened the decline of yellow croaker resources by the late 1930s.
3986028|This article examines the rise and fall of the "green revolution" philosophy developed by the National Catholic Rural Life Conference in the 1930s as a distinct strain of American environmentalism. After reviewing the evolution of the approach, its maturation around 1940, and its postwar marginalization, the article focuses on three aspects of the NCRLC. First is its ideology, as a "third way," a distributist alternative to socialism and capitalism. Second is the attempt to foster sustainable agricultural technologies by creating communitarian institutions in which the parish priest was central and by bringing an agrarian curriculum into Catholic higher education. Third is the attempt to ground this orientation toward sustainability in a distinctly Catholic nature spirituality, based on cyclicity rather than space.
23050645|To place a new and revealing light on the origins, context, and goals of early American conservation, this article investigates the influence and significance of Bernard Palissy, a sixteenth-century Huguenot artisan renowned for his ceramics and author of two remarkable books. A revival of interest in his ceramics led in the middle of the nineteenth century to his rediscovery in America, where his comments on forests made him a hero to early conservationists from George Perkins Marsh to Gifford Pinchot. Palissy placed his forestry comments in the context of agricultural improvement, the first full garden design in France, and the creation of a Huguenot refuge from persecution. This agenda foreshadowed the three aspects of nineteenth-century American conservationagricultural improvement, forestry, and parkswhich originated primarily among Congregationalists from the Connecticut Valley, descendants of Puritans seeking religious refuge. Both Palissy's agenda and American conservation originated in and constituted essential components of a comprehensive Calvinist vision of a moral and orderly society.
20749642|In the field of environmental history, Henry David Thoreau has come to symbolize the arrival of a preservationist ethos in American culture. His retreat to a secluded house in Walden woods, his book Walden, and essay "Walking," and millions of journal words about the Concord and New England landscape have all suggested the possession of a proto-environmentalism in Thoreau's life and literature. This essay documents the construction and use of the preservationist Thoreau by environmental historians. It then offers a summative profile of Thoreau's life leading up to his Walden experiment that challenges our common view. Finally, it examines the context of Thoreau's activity and writing following his Walden stay during the late 1840s and 1850s (Thoreau's most nature-oriented period), revealing the preservationist reading to be an incomplete rendering of Thoreau's overall interests.
3985801|Most environmental historians are acquainted with Farrar and Rinehart's Rivers of America book series, but few know much about its genesis and context. This essay examines the six works edited by the series founder, Constance Lindsay Skinner, and argues that these books shed light on interwar environmental thought and suggest that environmental history, at least in its public form, is not as new as many historians in the field have supposed.
3985739|In the late nineteenth century the organized summer camp movement developed as a response to anxieties about the effects of the urban-industrial age on children. Camping advocates wanted to create a countermodern alternative to the world their campers inhabited most of the year. These advocate subscribed to a set of values and assumptions about what is "natural" for children that eventually provoked a debate over the uses of nature in socializing children. Environmental historians can learn much from this debate as they try to make sense of how nature has been constructed both literally and symbolically in the twentieth century.
3985737|This article traces the origins of conservationist thinking among a group of scientists who constructed a system of American natural history while exploring the transappalachian frontier between 1730 and 1830. Despite the importance of conservationist thought in American environmental history, we know too little about how its major precepts-balance, interrelatedness, and the practical and spiritual importance of nature-were formulated prior to the Darwinian era. The early conservationists deserve more attention because they provided a firm foundation for ideas that took shape and triumphed in the second half of the nineteenth century.
20749674|J. Donald Hughes has been a pioneer among scholars of the environmental history of the ancient world: a prolific writer, he published his seminal work Ecology in Ancient Civilizations thirty-five years ago, and his Pan's Travail: Environmental Problems of the Ancient Greeks and Romans (1996) is already a classic. But, to paraphrase the Roman writer Terence, nothing in the field of environmental history seems to be alien to him. As the interview and the appended bibliography below demonstrate, he has done fundamental work in Native American, Pacific Island, and South Asian environmental history, and in recent years he has undertaken a sweeping environmental history of the Mediterranean (2005) and gone global with An Environmental history of the World (2001). We are delighted that he has agreed to discuss with us the shape of his distinguished career, his participation in the early development of the ASEH, and his aspiration to write a kind of environmental history that combines "the total picture[and] the revelatory detail."
25473105|Many readers of this journal have been inspired by Roderick Nash's Wilderness and the American Mind and The Rights of Nature, two of the foundational texts in environmental history, but some may be less familiar with his role in establishing environmental studies as an academic discipline and with his well-deserved reputation as one of this country's premier whitewater boatmen. In this interview, we ask Nash to talk not only about his path-breaking scholarly work, but also about his passion for the outdoors and his role as an environmental advocate.
23049782|Emphasizing debates about urban animals and habitatparticularly zoo animals, dogs, and geesethis essay argues that ideas about nature and popular ecology after Earth Day emerged in a dynamic with the changing social and material conditions of cities. Using Seattle during the 1970s as a case study, this essay explains how activists, politicians, and planners understood animals as part of a process of reimagining the purpose and shape of urban landscapes during a period of profound social change in Seattle. Natural order, or at least an order that matched the hopes of different stakeholders, was at best complicated and fleeting, and at worst it suggested a coded language for describing enduring race and class anxieties.
25473033|This article explains the ecological history of the brakes of river cane, or "tree grass," that once covered vast areas of the American South and its relationship to the agricultural and economic history of the early South. Cane is a plant of the margins that thrives on disturbance, and the relationship between cane and people in the South was always give-and-take. Ultimately, overgrazing by cattle and systematic clearing to make way for cotton reduced the South's canebrakes to a vestige of their former range.
3986232|Although environmental historians have depended most often on visual evidence, our work and the knowledge of those we study relies upon full-body contact with our surroundings. Our senses carry qualitatively different environmental information. Smells are evanescent. In the safety considerations surrounding a large chemical plant on the Lake Huron shore, transient "whiffs of danger" complicated the regulatory, statutory, and scientific sources of uncertainty. This study of hydrogen sulphide emissions shows how sensory perception is contextually tuned and constrained, and by extension how sensing human bodies are historically specific.
3986230| Recent efforts to build bridges between environmental and labor history have relied primarily on the idea of alienation, a concept that means sharply different things to each subfield and which represents an incomplete foundation for collaboration. Instead, historians need to analyze and historicize geographies of labor. Comprising the spatial, material, and cultural connections between nature and labor, eographies of labor elucidate not only how nonhuman nature and human work have historically become alienated, but also how they have inspired mutually defining visions of redeemed nature and labor, from the 1830s to the present. 
40608501|This essay examines how skilled Mountain West railway workers in Canada and the United States incorporated environmental problems into their work culture. Through experience they developed methods of predicting snow slides and embraced customs that compelled them to work even under the most dangerous conditions. These informal practices, rather than written work rules, guided the decisions they made to offset risk for both their co-workers and train passengers. I argue that living and working in Avalanche Country meant railway workers gained an intimate knowledge of their natural surroundings that clashed with accepted corporate and legal interpretations that saw slides as unforeseeable acts of God. Comparing three avalanche disasters in two countries provides persuasive evidence that occupation and experience influenced notions of risk. Importantly, the significance of my argument lies in its refusal to see industrial workers as detached from nature and for what it suggests about workers in other places and occupations who also likely developed job-specific practices in response to environmental dangers.
3985799|This article identifies sport utility vehicles (SUVs) with postmodern developments in industrial society, automobile manufacturing and marketing, land use, and the environment. A historical backdrop demonstrates links between vehicular systems and conceptions of nature protection: nineteenth-century rail produced monuments at discrete points, whereas the modernist automobile culture of the 1930s-1950s separated nature and urban civilization and created zones of wilderness. Today's SUV culture echoes a more complicated "de-differentiated" ideal that can be approached through advertising slogans and spare-tire covers. Viewed pessimistically, this postmodernism means "no boundaries" in people's exploitation of the environment; more optimistically it means seamlessly integrated concern-even in vehicles.
40608543|The cotton boll weevil's threat to the Yazoo-Mississippi Delta at the start of the twentieth century reveals how the region's elite landowners used racism and social power to maintain control over a vast agro-environment in the face of a potentially devastating natural threat. The insect pest put their cotton kingdom in peril, and planters responded by approaching this beetle not as a natural disaster, but as a human one. Their preparations for the weevil's arrival show that they understood their control over the environment as rooted in their "natural" place atop a social order and labor system based on white supremacy and access to scientific expertise. Planters hoped to protect their place in this order, and thereby defend their cotton from the weevil, by managing knowledge about the insect as a means of controlling farm workers. Building on recent work in southern environmental history, this article uncovers the ways white landowners' ideologies about race and labor shaped their approach to the agro-environment and its pests.
23049857|Early Euroamerican settlers to the tallgrass prairie region of the Midwest considered how the environment benefitted or hindered their fertility. Both men and women sought the prairie as a fertile land for reproduction, and their hopes for progeny shaped the transformation of the prairie ecosystem. The prairie landscape was more than a passive space where humans projected fantasies, however. The prairie may have altered the fertility of Euroamerican bodies, even as it influenced settlers' ideas about sexuality and reproduction. Men and women perceived the tallgrass prairie as possessing the power to affect fertility, and they sought this unique environment for its ability to sustain family farms and a healthy civilization.
3986029|This essay examines the work of wildlife biologist Herbert Stoddard, who came to the longleaf pine-grassland forests of south Georgia in 1924 to study the bobwhite quail, and stayed to develop a method of land management that stressed ecological habitat over the dominant production-oriented model. Stoddard's major early accomplishments were threefold: He helped to create the new profession of wildlife management, he fought for the reintroduction of fire in the longleaf-grassland system, and he was among the first to advocate for ecological diversity in cultural landscapes. His work offers new insight on how conservation played out regionally, suggesting that we rethink the local elements of national conservation policy.
23049784|A careful consideration of how colonial and early Americans discussed weeds lends insight into the ways that common settlers aligned agricultural expectations with ecological realities. Current examinations of transatlantic exchanges of floral biomass have done an admirable job of showing how desirable plants that explorers obtained (and sometimes purloined) on the periphery of the empire enhanced the commercial, medical, and biological interests of the metropolis. A sustained consideration of weeds, however, shifts the focus in valuable ways. For one, it offers a much needed "from the ground up" perspective on a ubiquitous, if not mundane, botanical reality that nearly every settler to some degree or another had no choice but to confront. For another, because weeds were plants that happened to have strong spiritual and metaphorical connotations as a result of the popular Parable of the Tare, they provide the historian a rare opportunity to explore how the spiritual implications of weeds interacted with new world secular rationalizations of them to make sense of a novel environment. And, finally, weeds effectively open the door to subsequent explorations of so many other pervasive ecological realitiesinsects, forest growth, water supplies, fertilizer availabilitythat helped lay the rhetorical foundation for an agricultural system that became exceptional in size, commercial orientation, and wastefulness.
25473195|This essay considers the draining of Sumas Lake, British Columbia, Canada, by the provincial government in the 1920s. I argue that both the B.C. state and local landowners believed in the virtue of the ordered landscape of agrarian ideology. Both supported a quest to order nature that clashed with a disordered and interconnected natural environment, leading to massive cost overruns on the building of drainage works and the creation of farmlands. The state battled local landowners over who would pay for the project. Landowners argued that the drainage had not made their farms more profitable. Yet both groups continued to agree that the drainage represented progress and improvement. The landowners' continued support of the project despite its cost and their meager gains suggests that the problems of the project lay less in the general logic of the state than in the discourse of liberal agrarianism that both supported. The financial and environmental problems of the project owed more to the limits of this shared vision than to inherent limitations in the state's relationship with nature or the local.
25764462|Between 1820 and 1860, the construction of a network of coal-carrying canals transformed the society, economy, and environment of the eastern mid-Atlantic. Artificial waterways created a new built environment for the region, an energy landscape in which anthracite coal could be transported cheaply, reliably, and in ever-increasing quantities. Flush with fossil fuel energy for the first time, mid-Atlantic residents experimented with new uses of coal in homes, iron forges, steam engines, and factories. Their efforts exceeded practically all expectations. Over the course of four decades, shipments of anthracite coal increased exponentially, helping turn a rural and commercial economy into an urban and industrial one. This article examines the development of coal canals in the antebellum period to provide new insights into how and why Americans came to adopt fossil fuels, when and where this happened, and the social consequences of these developments.
23049823|This essay offers an introduction to the much longer story of the emergence and development of habitat as a key concept in environmental science, law, and politics. Since the nineteenth century, naturalists have recognized that habitat could be a limiting factor for wildlife populations. As early as the 1920s, ecologists adopted the concept of habitat as an organizational framework for their field. The advent of wildlife management, in the 1930s, furthered interest in habitat conservation on the public lands. After World War II, administrative agencies and conservation organizations adopted divergent approaches to habitat management, some of which came into conflict. The passage of the federal Endangered Species Act, in 1973, launched a new phase in which land use controversies would increasingly focus on protected species' habitat. Today, environmental groups often present habitat conservation, in the form of land purchases or easements, as the cure-all solution for a wide variety of problems. Habitat protection is a cornerstone of conservation, but it is not a panacea.
23050647|The Second World War drove an unprecedented search for resources at a global scale to supply military activity in Europe, Asia, and beyond. This article contributes to recent debates about the environmental consequences of global warfare by examining how total war produced new commodity chains over distance to deliver scarce military goods to combat zones and how those commodity chains precipitated different social and environmental effects along chains. Focusing on aluminum, a critical mineral used in alloys for aircraft construction, the article traces various stages in its production and processing. From the bauxite mines of British Guiana, through transshipment points on Trinidad, the smelting facilities of Quebec, and the cryolite mines of Greenland, the aluminum commodity chain delivered the consequences of wartime military demand to distant production and manufacturing sites, making the landscapes of war global in reach. Although similar commodity chains existed in the interwar period, the war drove a vast increase in production, militarized the production and transportation of the commodity, and introduced new environmental consequences.
25473326|Contemporary environmental artists are increasingly turning their attention to climate change. Focusing on an exhibition curated by the renowned art critic Lucy R. Lippard, this essay places selected works in dialogue with mass media framings of environmental problems to reveal how contemporary art can generate new ways of seeing global warming. I argue that the show sought to forge perceptual links between local and global environmental change and to use both doomsday and inspiring modes of address in a dialectical fashion. By melding science, aesthetics, and politics in an imaginative way, many of the artists represented the humanistic dimensions of the crisis and, at times, even gestured toward a promising vision of environmentalism.
25473034|This essay examines challenges by the Salt Lake Women's Chamber of Commerce of definitions of conservation, democracy, and the role of the city through the group's efforts to enact air pollution reforms from 1936 to 1945-a time and a place that generally are seen as less than willing to offer women a significant public voice. The Women's Chamber served as a transitional group between pre- and postwar conservationism and environmentalism, suggesting that this period deserves more scholarly study. The case study also advances the links between urban and environmental history.
23049817|The observations of naturalists and explorers have been used as historical sources for determining baseline wildlife conditions from the earliest practice of modern ecology. These sources are rarely critically analyzed, however, and are often incorporated into contemporary scientific literature advocating the conservation and restoration of wildlife. This essay argues that combining approaches from environmental history and recent ecological research will allow for the interrogation of original sources and the application of scientific concepts that questions the assumptions underlying historical baselines.
25473165|Between the 1940s and the 1970s the environment of northern Canada was transformed, physically and politically. Scientists played a variety of roles in this transformation, assisting in forming an administrative regime for the region, as well as, on occasion, critiquing this regime and its environmental implications. These roles were expressed through a series of ideas and images about the northern landscape: as the habitat of wildlife populations that fluctuate dramatically, or conversely, that can be managed to provide a stable yield; and in a second dualism, as a uniquely fragile wilderness or a resource-rich hinterland balancing environmental and development goals. These roles and images were the product of interactions between northern political and economic imperatives, scientists' ideas regarding the theories and methods relevant to the North, and the northern environment itself. Understanding this history requires building bridges between environmental history and the history of science; a chief means by which this is accomplished is through "disciplinary space"-a concept that has broader implications for the practice of history.
3985800|This essay elaborates upon the history of the removal of aboriginal people from national parks through a case study of the exclusion of the Stoney from Rocky Mountains (Banff National) Park in Canada between 1890 and 1920. It argues that the example of Banff National Park suggests that in Canada at least, and probably in the United States, aboriginal people were excluded from national parks in the interests of game conservation, sport hunting, toursim, and Indian assimilation, not to ensure that national parks became uninhabited wilderness.
25473162|This article considers land drainage in the wet prairie region of Manitoba, Canada, from the late nineteenth to the mid-twentieth century. It explains why watershed-based drainage funding, proposed in the early 1920s as a means of financing the more substantial ditching necessary to address the province's drainage problems, was embraced by some Manitobans, resisted by others, and repeatedly rejected by provincial administrators. Federal government settlement policy, on one hand, and communities of interest derived from the local topography of southern Manitoba, on the other, defined the terms of the debate over watershed-based funding. While scientific uncertainty and political change were contributing factors, it was in large part to mitigate conflict between highlanders and lowlanders that the province ultimately assumed a larger role in funding drainage. The history of drainage in Manitoba's wet prairie, while broadening understanding of the challenges of mobile nature amid grid-based agricultural settlement, also illustrates the importance of considering the specific environmental conditions for resettlement and the workings of provincial and municipal governments. At such local scales, the intertwined character of the human and physical landscapes is particularly apparent.
25473168|We lay out a rationale for a new scholarly subfield-the environmental history of the Great Lakes-that Canadian and U.S. scholars can develop together. This project began as an attempt to teach environmental history in a way that stressed the importance of our region to our Wisconsin- and Michigan-based students. But classroom experiences convinced us that Great Lakes environmental history has been neglected, both because of its transnational character and because of biases within the field of environmental history. The Great Lakes have important stories to tell. They are at once representative of the larger narratives of both the United States and Canada, and also demonstrate the exceptional history of each nation. They provide an opportunity to explore comparative and transnational history. The Great Lakes also are fundamentally important in their own right for their industries, environments, and abundant resources.
20749645|This essay is part of a larger project that investigates the environmental effects of mining in Mexico. Although mining played a critical role in the economic, political, and social development of Spanish American colonies, and although it has consequently received extensive attention by historians, there exists no serious study of its environmental dimensions. The study establishes the overall rhythms and scales of fuel wood consumptionthe main source of energy for silver smelting and refiningfor mining districts located along the length of New Spain (Chihuahua to Taxco) from the beginning of colonial mining (1522) to the turn of the nineteenth century. It also details the more local environmental dynamics of mining, describing the practice of charcoal-making, its connection with emerging pastoralism and agriculture, and its social and ethnic dimensions.
20749670|Environmental thought in nineteenth-century America has often been dismissed: either it was strictly utilitarian, or it was oriented exclusively toward wilderness, or it was a nave, nostalgic form of pastoralism. But some evidence supports the flowering of a landscape tradition in the antebellum period that was characterized by a simultaneous engagement with mortality and with the immediate environmental context of ordinary life, by an ecological ethic based on humility, finitude, and integration. The Boston horticulturists who established Mount Auburn, the first garden-style urban cemetery, in 1831, were making a spatial argument about natural limitations. The fantastic success of Mount Auburn then went on to spur a national movement bent on incorporating public green spaces, sites of shadiness, in cities. Until the 1860s, when "the trouble with wilderness" really began, American arcadians of all classes planted gardens next to the graves of their kin and established a new kind of kinship with the land.
3985799|This article identifies sport utility vehicles (SUVs) with postmodern developments in industrial society, automobile manufacturing and marketing, land use, and the environment. A historical backdrop demonstrates links between vehicular systems and conceptions of nature protection: nineteenth-century rail produced monuments at discrete points, whereas the modernist automobile culture of the 1930s-1950s separated nature and urban civilization and created zones of wilderness. Today's SUV culture echoes a more complicated "de-differentiated" ideal that can be approached through advertising slogans and spare-tire covers. Viewed pessimistically, this postmodernism means "no boundaries" in people's exploitation of the environment; more optimistically it means seamlessly integrated concern-even in vehicles.
40608543|The cotton boll weevil's threat to the Yazoo-Mississippi Delta at the start of the twentieth century reveals how the region's elite landowners used racism and social power to maintain control over a vast agro-environment in the face of a potentially devastating natural threat. The insect pest put their cotton kingdom in peril, and planters responded by approaching this beetle not as a natural disaster, but as a human one. Their preparations for the weevil's arrival show that they understood their control over the environment as rooted in their "natural" place atop a social order and labor system based on white supremacy and access to scientific expertise. Planters hoped to protect their place in this order, and thereby defend their cotton from the weevil, by managing knowledge about the insect as a means of controlling farm workers. Building on recent work in southern environmental history, this article uncovers the ways white landowners' ideologies about race and labor shaped their approach to the agro-environment and its pests.
23049857|Early Euroamerican settlers to the tallgrass prairie region of the Midwest considered how the environment benefitted or hindered their fertility. Both men and women sought the prairie as a fertile land for reproduction, and their hopes for progeny shaped the transformation of the prairie ecosystem. The prairie landscape was more than a passive space where humans projected fantasies, however. The prairie may have altered the fertility of Euroamerican bodies, even as it influenced settlers' ideas about sexuality and reproduction. Men and women perceived the tallgrass prairie as possessing the power to affect fertility, and they sought this unique environment for its ability to sustain family farms and a healthy civilization.
3986029|This essay examines the work of wildlife biologist Herbert Stoddard, who came to the longleaf pine-grassland forests of south Georgia in 1924 to study the bobwhite quail, and stayed to develop a method of land management that stressed ecological habitat over the dominant production-oriented model. Stoddard's major early accomplishments were threefold: He helped to create the new profession of wildlife management, he fought for the reintroduction of fire in the longleaf-grassland system, and he was among the first to advocate for ecological diversity in cultural landscapes. His work offers new insight on how conservation played out regionally, suggesting that we rethink the local elements of national conservation policy.
23049784|A careful consideration of how colonial and early Americans discussed weeds lends insight into the ways that common settlers aligned agricultural expectations with ecological realities. Current examinations of transatlantic exchanges of floral biomass have done an admirable job of showing how desirable plants that explorers obtained (and sometimes purloined) on the periphery of the empire enhanced the commercial, medical, and biological interests of the metropolis. A sustained consideration of weeds, however, shifts the focus in valuable ways. For one, it offers a much needed "from the ground up" perspective on a ubiquitous, if not mundane, botanical reality that nearly every settler to some degree or another had no choice but to confront. For another, because weeds were plants that happened to have strong spiritual and metaphorical connotations as a result of the popular Parable of the Tare, they provide the historian a rare opportunity to explore how the spiritual implications of weeds interacted with new world secular rationalizations of them to make sense of a novel environment. And, finally, weeds effectively open the door to subsequent explorations of so many other pervasive ecological realitiesinsects, forest growth, water supplies, fertilizer availabilitythat helped lay the rhetorical foundation for an agricultural system that became exceptional in size, commercial orientation, and wastefulness.
25473195|This essay considers the draining of Sumas Lake, British Columbia, Canada, by the provincial government in the 1920s. I argue that both the B.C. state and local landowners believed in the virtue of the ordered landscape of agrarian ideology. Both supported a quest to order nature that clashed with a disordered and interconnected natural environment, leading to massive cost overruns on the building of drainage works and the creation of farmlands. The state battled local landowners over who would pay for the project. Landowners argued that the drainage had not made their farms more profitable. Yet both groups continued to agree that the drainage represented progress and improvement. The landowners' continued support of the project despite its cost and their meager gains suggests that the problems of the project lay less in the general logic of the state than in the discourse of liberal agrarianism that both supported. The financial and environmental problems of the project owed more to the limits of this shared vision than to inherent limitations in the state's relationship with nature or the local.
25764462|Between 1820 and 1860, the construction of a network of coal-carrying canals transformed the society, economy, and environment of the eastern mid-Atlantic. Artificial waterways created a new built environment for the region, an energy landscape in which anthracite coal could be transported cheaply, reliably, and in ever-increasing quantities. Flush with fossil fuel energy for the first time, mid-Atlantic residents experimented with new uses of coal in homes, iron forges, steam engines, and factories. Their efforts exceeded practically all expectations. Over the course of four decades, shipments of anthracite coal increased exponentially, helping turn a rural and commercial economy into an urban and industrial one. This article examines the development of coal canals in the antebellum period to provide new insights into how and why Americans came to adopt fossil fuels, when and where this happened, and the social consequences of these developments.
23049823|This essay offers an introduction to the much longer story of the emergence and development of habitat as a key concept in environmental science, law, and politics. Since the nineteenth century, naturalists have recognized that habitat could be a limiting factor for wildlife populations. As early as the 1920s, ecologists adopted the concept of habitat as an organizational framework for their field. The advent of wildlife management, in the 1930s, furthered interest in habitat conservation on the public lands. After World War II, administrative agencies and conservation organizations adopted divergent approaches to habitat management, some of which came into conflict. The passage of the federal Endangered Species Act, in 1973, launched a new phase in which land use controversies would increasingly focus on protected species' habitat. Today, environmental groups often present habitat conservation, in the form of land purchases or easements, as the cure-all solution for a wide variety of problems. Habitat protection is a cornerstone of conservation, but it is not a panacea.
23050647|The Second World War drove an unprecedented search for resources at a global scale to supply military activity in Europe, Asia, and beyond. This article contributes to recent debates about the environmental consequences of global warfare by examining how total war produced new commodity chains over distance to deliver scarce military goods to combat zones and how those commodity chains precipitated different social and environmental effects along chains. Focusing on aluminum, a critical mineral used in alloys for aircraft construction, the article traces various stages in its production and processing. From the bauxite mines of British Guiana, through transshipment points on Trinidad, the smelting facilities of Quebec, and the cryolite mines of Greenland, the aluminum commodity chain delivered the consequences of wartime military demand to distant production and manufacturing sites, making the landscapes of war global in reach. Although similar commodity chains existed in the interwar period, the war drove a vast increase in production, militarized the production and transportation of the commodity, and introduced new environmental consequences.
25473326|Contemporary environmental artists are increasingly turning their attention to climate change. Focusing on an exhibition curated by the renowned art critic Lucy R. Lippard, this essay places selected works in dialogue with mass media framings of environmental problems to reveal how contemporary art can generate new ways of seeing global warming. I argue that the show sought to forge perceptual links between local and global environmental change and to use both doomsday and inspiring modes of address in a dialectical fashion. By melding science, aesthetics, and politics in an imaginative way, many of the artists represented the humanistic dimensions of the crisis and, at times, even gestured toward a promising vision of environmentalism.
25473034|This essay examines challenges by the Salt Lake Women's Chamber of Commerce of definitions of conservation, democracy, and the role of the city through the group's efforts to enact air pollution reforms from 1936 to 1945-a time and a place that generally are seen as less than willing to offer women a significant public voice. The Women's Chamber served as a transitional group between pre- and postwar conservationism and environmentalism, suggesting that this period deserves more scholarly study. The case study also advances the links between urban and environmental history.
23049817|The observations of naturalists and explorers have been used as historical sources for determining baseline wildlife conditions from the earliest practice of modern ecology. These sources are rarely critically analyzed, however, and are often incorporated into contemporary scientific literature advocating the conservation and restoration of wildlife. This essay argues that combining approaches from environmental history and recent ecological research will allow for the interrogation of original sources and the application of scientific concepts that questions the assumptions underlying historical baselines.
25473165|Between the 1940s and the 1970s the environment of northern Canada was transformed, physically and politically. Scientists played a variety of roles in this transformation, assisting in forming an administrative regime for the region, as well as, on occasion, critiquing this regime and its environmental implications. These roles were expressed through a series of ideas and images about the northern landscape: as the habitat of wildlife populations that fluctuate dramatically, or conversely, that can be managed to provide a stable yield; and in a second dualism, as a uniquely fragile wilderness or a resource-rich hinterland balancing environmental and development goals. These roles and images were the product of interactions between northern political and economic imperatives, scientists' ideas regarding the theories and methods relevant to the North, and the northern environment itself. Understanding this history requires building bridges between environmental history and the history of science; a chief means by which this is accomplished is through "disciplinary space"-a concept that has broader implications for the practice of history.
3985800|This essay elaborates upon the history of the removal of aboriginal people from national parks through a case study of the exclusion of the Stoney from Rocky Mountains (Banff National) Park in Canada between 1890 and 1920. It argues that the example of Banff National Park suggests that in Canada at least, and probably in the United States, aboriginal people were excluded from national parks in the interests of game conservation, sport hunting, toursim, and Indian assimilation, not to ensure that national parks became uninhabited wilderness.
25473162|This article considers land drainage in the wet prairie region of Manitoba, Canada, from the late nineteenth to the mid-twentieth century. It explains why watershed-based drainage funding, proposed in the early 1920s as a means of financing the more substantial ditching necessary to address the province's drainage problems, was embraced by some Manitobans, resisted by others, and repeatedly rejected by provincial administrators. Federal government settlement policy, on one hand, and communities of interest derived from the local topography of southern Manitoba, on the other, defined the terms of the debate over watershed-based funding. While scientific uncertainty and political change were contributing factors, it was in large part to mitigate conflict between highlanders and lowlanders that the province ultimately assumed a larger role in funding drainage. The history of drainage in Manitoba's wet prairie, while broadening understanding of the challenges of mobile nature amid grid-based agricultural settlement, also illustrates the importance of considering the specific environmental conditions for resettlement and the workings of provincial and municipal governments. At such local scales, the intertwined character of the human and physical landscapes is particularly apparent.
25473168|We lay out a rationale for a new scholarly subfield-the environmental history of the Great Lakes-that Canadian and U.S. scholars can develop together. This project began as an attempt to teach environmental history in a way that stressed the importance of our region to our Wisconsin- and Michigan-based students. But classroom experiences convinced us that Great Lakes environmental history has been neglected, both because of its transnational character and because of biases within the field of environmental history. The Great Lakes have important stories to tell. They are at once representative of the larger narratives of both the United States and Canada, and also demonstrate the exceptional history of each nation. They provide an opportunity to explore comparative and transnational history. The Great Lakes also are fundamentally important in their own right for their industries, environments, and abundant resources.
20749645|This essay is part of a larger project that investigates the environmental effects of mining in Mexico. Although mining played a critical role in the economic, political, and social development of Spanish American colonies, and although it has consequently received extensive attention by historians, there exists no serious study of its environmental dimensions. The study establishes the overall rhythms and scales of fuel wood consumptionthe main source of energy for silver smelting and refiningfor mining districts located along the length of New Spain (Chihuahua to Taxco) from the beginning of colonial mining (1522) to the turn of the nineteenth century. It also details the more local environmental dynamics of mining, describing the practice of charcoal-making, its connection with emerging pastoralism and agriculture, and its social and ethnic dimensions.
20749670|Environmental thought in nineteenth-century America has often been dismissed: either it was strictly utilitarian, or it was oriented exclusively toward wilderness, or it was a nave, nostalgic form of pastoralism. But some evidence supports the flowering of a landscape tradition in the antebellum period that was characterized by a simultaneous engagement with mortality and with the immediate environmental context of ordinary life, by an ecological ethic based on humility, finitude, and integration. The Boston horticulturists who established Mount Auburn, the first garden-style urban cemetery, in 1831, were making a spatial argument about natural limitations. The fantastic success of Mount Auburn then went on to spur a national movement bent on incorporating public green spaces, sites of shadiness, in cities. Until the 1860s, when "the trouble with wilderness" really began, American arcadians of all classes planted gardens next to the graves of their kin and established a new kind of kinship with the land.
