4393854| The Stereophyllaceae are a family of singly costate pleurocarpous mosses with hypnalean peristomes. The family is primarily distinguished by the collenchymatous, differentiated alar cells that are quadrate, rectangular or irregularly angled, and usually unequally distributed on either side of the costa and extending over its adaxial surface. The family contains two subfamilies, the Stereophylloideae and the Pilosioideae. The Stereophylloideae in Latin America contain seven genera: Catagoniopsis Brotherus (1 species), Entodontopsis Brotherus (7 species), Eulacophyllum Buck & Ireland (1 species), Juratzkaea Lorentz (2 species), Sciuroleskea Hampe ex Brotherus (2 species), Stenocarpidium C. Mller (1 species) and Stereophyllum Mitten (1 species). The Pilosioideae, newly described here, contain only Pilosium (C. Mller) Fleischer (1 species). All 16 species of the family in Latin America are described, illustrated and their distributions mapped. 
4393857| A monograph of the genera of neotropical Ericaceae with superior ovaries is presented with a systematic treatment of 18 genera and 155 species, including chapters on taxonomic history, morphology, anatomy, pollen, chemistry, cytology, ecology, distribution, uses, phylogeny, etc. Full descriptions, including nomenclature, distribution maps, citation of specimens, and some illustrations, are given for the species, as are generic and species keys. /// Se presenta una monografa de los gneros de Ericaceae neotropicales con ovario superior con un tratamiento sistemtico de 18 gneros y 155 especies, incluyendo captulos sobre historia taxonmica, morfologa, anatoma, polen, qumica, citologa, ecologa, distribucin, usos, filogenia, etc. Se dan descripciones completas, incluyendo nomenclatura, mapas de distribucin, citacin de especmenes y algunas ilustraciones para las especies, como tambin claves para gneros y especies. 
4393739| A monographic treatment of Bignoniaceae, tribe Tecomeae, for the Neotropics, treating 19 native genera and 203 native species plus 11 additional subspecies and 7 varieties. Also included are several paleotropical genera and species that are more or less regularly cultivated or naturalized in the Neotropics. The treatment of the 49 species of Jacaranda, partially based on the Ph.D. thesis of Wilfried Morawetz, is jointly authored with Dr. Morawetz. Included are keys to the genera and species, illustrations for each genus, descriptions and distribution maps for each species, and a complete list of exsiccatae. Thirteen species and a subspecies are described as new-Jacaranda carajasensis A. Gentry, J. caucana ssp. calycina A. Gentry, J. intricata A. Gentry & Morawetz, J. microcalyx A. Gentry, J. rugosa A. Gentry, Sparattosperma catingae A. Gentry, Tabebuia arianeae A. Gentry, T. botelhensis A. Gentry, T. caleticana A. Gentry & Albert, T. cristata A. Gentry, T. pumila A. Gentry, T. reticulata A. Gentry, T. riodocensis A. Gentry, and T. selachidentata A. Gentry. In addition two new combinations are proposed in Tabebuia-T. myrtifolia var. petrophila (Greenman) A. Gentry and T. pedicellata (Bureau & K. Schumann) A. Gentry. An illustrated appendix on the wood anatomy of the Tecomeae, by Gracielza Dos Santos and Regis B. Miller is also included. /// Se presenta un tratamiento monogrfico de Bignoniaceae, Tribo Tecomeae, para los neotrpicos, incluyendo 19 gneros nativos con 203 especies nativas mas 11 subespecies y 7 variedades. Tambin se incluyen varios gneros y especies paleotrpicos a menudo cultivados o naturalizados. Jacaranda tiene como co-autor a W. Morawetz y est basada en parte en su tesis doctoral. Se ha includo claves a gneros y especies, ilustraciones para cada gnero, descripciones y mapas de distribucin para cada especie, y una lista completa de exsiccatae. Trece especies y una subespecie son descritas como nuevas-Jacaranda carajasensis A. Gentry, J. caucana ssp. calycina A. Gentry, J. intricata A. Gentry & Morawetz, J. microcalyx A. Gentry, J. rugosa A. Gentry, Sparattosperma catingae A. Gentry, Tabebuia arianeae A. Gentry, T. botelhensis A. Gentry, T. caleticana A. Gentry & Albert, T. cristata A. Gentry, T. pumila A. Gentry, T. reticulata A. Gentry, T. riodocensis A. Gentry, and T. selachidentata A. Gentry. Tambin hay dos combinaciones nuevas propuestas para Tabebuia-T. myrtifolia var. petrophila (Greenman) A. Gentry y T. pedicellata (Bureau & K. Schumann) A. Gentry. Se incluye tambin un apndice illustrado de la anatoma leosa de la Tecomeae preparado por Gracielza Dos Santos y Regis B. Miller. 
4393681| Since the Flora Neotropica account of the Chrysobalanaceae was published in 1972, much new material has been collected. This supplement to the earlier monograph has studied 6170 new collections and includes the descriptions of 67 new taxa that have been described since the monograph, 64 of which are published as new species in this work. Full descriptions are given of all new species and they are numbered next to their closest relatives in the original monograph. New generic keys are provided to incorporate all the new species and other minor changes in taxonomy that were made in the light of the better material of many species. /// Depois a publicao da familia Chrysobalanaceae (1972) em Flora Neotropica muito material botnica foi coletada. Foram estudadas 6170 colees novas e descritas 67 taxa novas, incluido 64 apresentadas nesta obra. Descries de tudos espcies descritas desde 1972 e chaves novas para cada gnero so fornicidas. 
4393842| A revision of the Neotropical Haemodoraceae is given comprising four genera: Lachnanthes, Pyrrorhiza, Schiekia, and Xiphidium. The first three genera are monotypic whereas Xiphidium is represented by two species. Schiekia orinocensis is composed of two subspecies; S. orinocensis subsp. silvestris Maas & Stoel is herein described as new. All (sub)species are fully illustrated. The introduction includes a paragraph dealing with the micromorphology of the seeds illustrated by SEM photographs. /// A reviso das Haemodoraceae neotropicais  presentada contendo quatros gneros: Lachnanthes, Pyrrorhiza, Schiekia, e Xiphidium. As primeiros tres gneros so monotpicos, enquanto Xiphidium  representado por duas espcies. Schiekia orinocensis se manifesta com duas subespcies e a subsp. silvestris Maas & Stoel  descrita aqui como nova. Todas as (sub)espcies so amplamente ilustradas. A introduo inclui um pargrafo com SEM fotografias da micromorfologia das sementes. 
4393869| The neotropical plam genus Aiphanes (Arecoideae: Cocoeae: Bactridinae) is revised. The genus is characterized by the combination of emergent spines, praemorse pinnae, protandrous inflorescences, and pistillate flowers with petals for half their length. Its taxonomic history, morphology, pollen morphology, anatomy, chromosome numbers, distribution and ecology, reproductive biology, and inter- and intrageneric relationships are discussed. We recognize 22 species, distributed in the Lesser Antilles, Trinidad, Venezuela, and along the Andes south to Bolivia, with a concentration of species in western Colombia. Most species of Aiphanes are understory palms in humid forest types, from 0 to 3000 m above sea level. Aiphanes spicata, from Peru, is described as new to science. Aiphanes kalbreyeri and A. fosteriorum are reduced to subspecies under A. hirsuta, and a new subspecies, A. hirsuta subsp. intermedia, is described. /// Se revisa el gnero neotropico de palmas Aiphanes (Arecoideae: Cocoeae: Bactridinae). El gnero se caracteriza por la combinacin de aguijones, pinnas praemorsas, inflorecencias protandricas, y flores pistilladas con petalos unidos hasta la mitad. Se discute la historia taxonomica, morfologa, palynologa, anatoma, numero de cromosomas, distribucin y ecologa del gnero. Se reconocen 21 especies, distribuidas en las Antillas menores, Trinidad, Venezuela y a lo largo de los Andes desde Panam hasta Bolivia, con una concentracin mayor de especies en Colombia occidental. La mayoria de las especies son palmas de sotobosque creciendo en bosques humedos, desde el nivel de mar hasta 3000 m. Se describe Aiphanes spicata como nueva especie. Se reducen Aiphanes kalbreyeri y A. fosteriorum a subespecies bajo A. hirsuta, y se describe una nueva subespecie, A. hirsuta subsp. intermedia. 
4393863| A taxonomic monograph is presented of the neotropical species of Juncaceae. The family includes eight genera (Juncus, Luzula, Oxychloe, Distichia, Patosia, Marsippospermum, Rostkovia, Prionium) and about 300 species. They all have glumaceous, usually complete, pentacyclic, trimerous flowers, and the vast majority are grass-like herbs, one exception being the South African monotypic genus Prionium, which is woody and up to several meters high. In the neotropical region six genera are represented, Marsippospermum and Prionium being absent. The largest genera are Juncus, with some 220 species of which 41 occur in the neotropical area, and Luzula, with some 75 species of which eight are represented in the Neotropics. The remaining genera are small: Rostkovia (two species, one neotropical), Oxychloe (six species, one neotropical), Distichia (three neotropical species), and Patosia (one neotropical species). The geographic concentration of genera of Juncaceae is in the Southern Hemisphere with a strong transpacific element. The neotropical representatives of Juncaceae are all restricted to the highlands except towards the northern and southern limits of the area, where a few species are found at lower elevations. The two large genera (Juncus, Luzula) are mainly north temperate. The neotropical representatives of these genera include three, approximately equally large phytogeographic elements; about one-third of the species are north temperate species and another third are south temperate species that reach into the neotropical region; the last third of the species are restricted to the neotropical area. /// Se presenta una monografa taxonmica de las especies neotropicales de la familia Juncaceae. La familia incluye ocho gneros (Juncus, Luzula, Oxychloe, Distichia, Patosia, Marsippospermum, Rostkovia, Prionium) y alrededor de 300 especies. Las especies se caracterizan por tener flores glumceas, usualmente bisexuales, pentacclicas, trmeras; la mayora de ellas son herbceas con apariencia de gramneas. A diferencia de los otros gneros, Prionium de Sud Africa, es leoso y tiene una altura de varios metros. De los ocho gneros de Juncaceae, Marsippospermum y Prionium no se encuentran en el Neotrpico, mientras los seis restantes estn presentes en la zona neotropical. Los gneros ms grandes son Juncus con unas 220 especies (41 neotropicales), y Luzula con unas 75 especies (ocho neotropicales). Los dems gneros tienen pocas especies: Rostkovia (dos especies, una neotropical), Oxychloe (seis especies, una neotropical), Distichia (tres especies neotropicales), y Patosia (una especie neotropical). La concentracin ms alta de gneros est en el hemisferio sur y los gneros all presentes constituyen un elemento trans-Pacfico. Los dos gneros grandes (Juncus y Luzula) se distribuyen principalmente en el hemisferio norte. Los representantes neotropicales de estos dos gneros se dividen en tres elementos fitogeogrficos; una tercera parte de las especies est distribuida en la zona templada del norte y su distribucin se extiende hasta la zona neotropical; otra tercera parte corresponde a especies de la zona templada del sur con extensiones a la zona neotropical, finalmente existe un elemento fitogeogrfico de especies restringidas exclusivamente a la zona neotropical. 
4393893| A revision is given of the neotropical palm genus Bactris, based on the study of morphology and anatomy. Seventy-three species and 21 varieties are recognized. Seven new species and one new variety are described: B. bahiensis Noblick, B. glassmanii Medeiros-Costa and Noblick, B. halmoorei Henderson, B. hatschbachii Noblick, B. horridispatha Noblick, B. martiana Henderson, B. soeiroana Noblick, and B. hirta Martius var. jenmanii Henderson. Two new combinations are made: B. gasipaes Kunth var. chichagui (H. Karsten) Henderson, and B. hirta Martius var. lakoi (Burret) Henderson. The new name Bactris chaveziae Henderson replaces Bactris concinna var. sigmoidea (non B. sigmoidea Burret). Seven lectotypes and nine neotypes are designated. /// Se presenta una revisin del gnero de palmera neotropical Bactris, basado en un estudio morfolgico. Se reconocen 73 especies y 21 variedades. Se describen siete especies nuevas y una nueva variedad: B. bahiensis Noblick, B. glassmanii Medeiros-Costa and Noblick, B. halmoorei Henderson, B. hatschbachii Noblick, B. horridispatha Noblick, B. martiana Henderson, B. soeiroana Noblick, y B. hirta Martius var. jenmanii Henderson. Se realizan dos nuevas combinaciones: B. gasipaes Kunth var. chichagui (H. Karsten) Henderson, y B. hirta Martius var. lakoi (Burret) Henderson. El nuevo nombre Bactris chaveziae Henderson remplaza Bactris concinna var. sigmoidea (non B. sigmoidea Burret). Siete lectotipos y nueve neotipos estan designados. 
4393724|Neotropical Lecythidaceae comprise 197 known species in 11 genera of which 137 species in six genera (Couroupita, Corythophora, Bertholletia, Couratari, Eschweilera, and Lecythis) are treated in this monograph. Eschweilera amazoniciformis Mori, E. amplexifolia Mori, E. atropetiolata Mori, E. baguensis Mori, E. beebei Mori, E. boltenii Mori, E. carinata Mori, E. chartaceifolia Mori, E. integricalyx Mori, E. jacquelyniae Mori, E. longipedicellata Mori, E. longirachis Mori, E. microcalyx Mori, E. neblinensis Mori, E. neei Mori, E. piresii Mori, E. punctata Mori, E. revoluta Mori, E. rionegrense Mori, E. roraimensis Mori, E. rodriguesiana Mori, E. rufifolia Mori, E. subcordata Mori, E. venezuelica Mori, Lecythis parvifructa Mori, L. pneumatophora Mori, L. prancei Mori, and L. serrata Mori are described as new species. Keys are provided for the known species of each genus and synonymy, descriptions, distribution maps, habitat, local names, economic uses, and herbarium voucher specimens are given for each species. Descriptions of the secondary xylem of all genera of Neotropical Lecythidaceae are presented. The utility of wood anatomy in the generic and infrageneric classification of Neotropical Lecythidaceae, the affinities of Asteranthos based on secondary xylem, and inter-familial relationships of Lecythidaceae as suggested by wood anatomy are discussed. In addition, a key to genera based on wood anatomy is provided. A complete list of vouchered wood samples available for study is included. An update on the pollination biology of Neotropical Lecythidaceae is discussed and overviews of distribution, ecology, and conservation status of Neotropical Lecythidaceae are provided. The authors point out that, although much has been learned, there is still much to be learned about the taxonomy and ecology of Neotropical Lecythidaceae. Consequently, there remains the need for carefully prepared botanical collections, especially those which provide flowers and mature fruits from the same trees. /// As Lecythidaceae Neotropicais abrangem 197 espcies descritas em 11 gneros; deste total, 137 espcies em seis gneros (Couroupita, Corythophora, Bertholletia, Couratari, Eschweilera e Lecythis) so includas neste trabalho. Eschweilera amazoniciformis Mori, E. amplexifolia Mori, E. atropetiolata Mori, E. baguensis Mori, E. beebei Mori, E. boltenii Mori, E. carinata Mori, E. chartaceifolia Mori, E. integricalyx Mori, E. jacquelyniae Mori, E. longipedicellata Mori, E. longirachis Mori, E. microcalyx Mori, E. neblinensis Mori, E. neei Mori, E. piresii Mori, E. punctata Mori, E. revoluta Mori, E. rionegrense Mori, E. roraimensis Mori, E. rodriguesiana Mori, E. rufifolia Mori, E. subcordata Mori, E. venezuelica Mori, Lecythis parvifructa Mori, L. pneumatophora Mori, L. prancei Mori, and L. serrata Mori so descritas como novas para a cincia. Chaves para identifacao das espcies em cada gnero e sinonmia, descries, mapas de distribuio geogrfica, habitat, nomes vulgares, usos econmicos e colees herborizadas so apresentados para cada espcie. Descries do xilema secundrio de todos os gneros Neotropicais so apresentados. A utilidade da anatomia do xilema na classificao genrica e infragenrica das Lecythidaceae Neotropicais, as afinidades de Asteranthos baseadas no xilema secundrio e as relaes interfamiliares sugeridas pela anatomia da madeira so discutidas.  apresentada uma chave para gneros baseada no xilema secundrio. Uma lista de amostras de madeira correspondentes a material herborizado  includo. Resumos da biologia da polinizao, distribuio geogrfica, ecologia e conservao das Lecythidaceae Neotropicais so apresentados. Os autores frisam que, embora tenham aprendido muito, resta ainda muito para se conhecer sobre a taxonomia e ecologia das Lecythidaceae Neotropicais. Consequentemente, ainda permanece a necessidade de um maior nmero de colees cuidadosamente preparadas, especialmente as que proporcionam flores e frutos maduros das mesmas rvores.
4393926| A revision of the genus Ceratolejeunea (Hepaticae) in Tropical America is presented based on the examination of fresh plant material and over 1000 herbarium specimens and types of the over 100 species names published for the American continent. In this treatment, 23 Ceratolejeunea species are recognized in two subgenera: subgen. Ceratolejeunea (4 spp.) and subgen. Caduciloba Schust. (19 spp.). A new species, Ceratolejeunea minuta G. Dauphin, is described, and a new combination, Ceratolejeunea dussiana (Steph.) Dauphin, is proposed. Morphological descriptions, distributional and ecological data, keys, and illustrations of the species are given. A phylogenetic analysis of the genus based on morphological characters is also presented. /// Se presenta una revision del gnero Ceratolejeunea (Hepaticae) en Amrica Tropical, basada en el estudio de plantas vivas y ms de 1000 especmenes de herbario y tipos de ms de 100 especies publicadas para la regin. Se reconocen 23 especies de Ceratolejeunea en 2 subgneros: subgen. Ceratolejeunea (4 spp.) y subgen. Caduciloba Schust. (19 spp.). Se describe Ceratolejeunea minuta G. Dauphin y se propone una nueva combinacin Ceratolejeunea dussiana (Steph.) Dauphin. Se provee de descripciones morfolgicas, datos de distribucin y ecolgicos, as como claves e ilustraciones de las especies. Se presenta tambin un anlisis filogentico del gnero basado en caracteres morfolgicos. 
4393908| Solanum section Geminata s.l. (Solanaceae) includes about 126 species of shrubs and small trees native to the Neotropics. Members of the section range from northern Mexico and the West Indies throughout South America to Uruguay and northern Argentina. A single species is native to the Paleotropics, from China to tropical Australia, and is also unusual in the group in being polyploid. Most species are shrubs or small treelets found in light gaps or along streams in primary forest understory. A few species are common in second growth forests in many forest types. The section as treated here contains species with both simple and branched trichomes. It is clear from this study that the trichome characters traditionally used to differentiate sections of Solanum are too variable to be of use in sect. Geminata. Some species traditionally treated as members of sects. Pseudocapsicum, Indubitaria, and Holophylla are included in the monograph, as those sections as traditionally constituted are artificial groupings of apparently unrelated taxa. The monograph treats taxonomic history, morphology, ecology, and natural history of Solanum sect. Geminata s.l. One hundred twenty-six species are recognized in this treatment and four insufficiently known taxa are discussed in context with their putative relatives. The section has been divided into 16 species groups to facilitate identification and future in-depth phylogenetic study. Species groups are defined using largely characters of: 1) sympodial structure, 2) leaf shape, 3) trichome morphology, 4) inflorescence morphology, 5) pedicel scar type, 6) fruiting pedicel morphology, and 7) seed morphology. A fundamental difference in seed morphology appears to separate the section into two broad groups: those species groups with flattened reniform seeds typical of those found elsewhere in the family, and species groups with unusual ovoid reniform seeds found only in sect. Geminata. All typification and nomenclatural issues pertaining to the section and its component species are comprehensively examined. Section Geminata s.l. may not be monophyletic, but knowledge about related groups is scanty and a definitive judgment cannot be made at present. Extensive ecological data are included on pollination and herbivory. Pollination in Solanum sect. Geminata is similar to that observed throughout the genus. Female bees of several families vibrate the poricidal anthers and extract pollen. Specialized herbivores of members of the section are beetles of the family Chrysomelidae and nymphalid butterflies of the subfamily Ithomiinae. Larvae of relatively phylogenetically "advanced" butterflies feed on species in the section, but specific host/herbivore tracking is not apparent. Future cladistic studies of both hosts and herbivores may reveal patterns in these relationships. /// Solanum section Geminata s.l. (Solanaceae) incluye alrededor de 126 especies de arbustos y pequeos rboles nativos del Neotrpico. Miembros de la seccin se distribuyen desde Mxico y las Antillas, a travs de Sudamrica, hasta Uruguay y el norte de Argentina. Una sola especie es nativa del Paleotrpico, desde China hasta Australia, siendo inusual en el grupo por ser adems poliploide. La mayora de las especies son rboles pequeos que crecen en claros o a lo largo de arroyos, en el sotosbosque de bosques primarios. Pocas especies son comunes en bosques secundarios de diversos tipos. La seccin, en la forma aqu tratada, contiene especies con ambos tipos de tricomas, simples y ramificados. De este estudio resulta claro que los caracteres del tricoma, tradicionalmente utilizados para diferenciar secciones de Solanum, son demasiado variables para ser empleados en la seccin Geminata. Algunas especies, tradicionalmente tratadas como miembros de las secciones Pseudocapsicum, Indubitaria y Holophylla, son incluidas en la monografia, ya que estas secciones estaban tradicionalmente constituidas en agrupaciones artificiales de taxa sin relacin aparentent. La monografia trata la historia taxonmica, morfologa, ecologa e historia natural del gnero Solanum seccin Geminata s.l. Ciento veintiseis especies son reconocidas en el tratamiento y cuatro taxones, insuficientemente conocidos, son discutidos en contexto con sus parientes putativos. La seccin ha sido dividida en 16 grupos de especies, a modo de facilitar su identificacin y un futuro estudio filogentico profundo. Los grupos de especies son definidos utilizando fundamentalmente caracteres de: 1) estructura simpodial, 2) forma de la hoja, 3) morfologa de los tricomas, 4) morfologa de la inflorescencia, 5) tipo de cicatriz del pedicelo, 6) morfologa del pedicelo frutal, y 7) morfologa de la semilla. Una diferencia fundamental en la forma de las semillas parece separar la seccin en dos grandes grupos: un grupo de especies con semillas reniformes y aplanadas, tipicamente encontradas en la familia; y otro grupo de especies con semillas ovoide-reniformes, inusuales, encontradas slo en la seccin Geminata. Son tratados in extenso todas las cuestiones nomenclaturales y de tipificacin relacionadas con la seccin y sus especies componentes. La seccin Geminata podra no ser monofiltica, pero el conocimiento sobre grupos afines es todava escaso y por el momento no puede haber un juicio definitivo. Se incluyen extensos datos ecolgicos sobre polinizacin y herbivorismo. La polinizacin en Solanum seccin Geminata es similar a lo observado en el gnero. Abejas hembras de varias familias hacen vibrar las anteras poricidas, extrayendo as el polen. Herbvoros especializados de miembros de la seccin son escarabajos pertenecientes a la familia Chrysomelidae y mariposas de la subfamilia Ithomiinae. Larvas de mariposas, relativamente avanzadas filogeneticamente, se alimentan de especies de la seccin, pero aparentemente no hay una relacin especfica herbvoro/husped. Futuros estudios cladsticos de ambos, herbvoro y husped, podran revelar relaciones de este tipo. 
4393929| A taxonomic monograph of Endlicheria, a South America-centered genus of the Ocotea complex, is presented; and with the benefit of molecular data showing that its members are nested within Rhodostemonodaphne and Ocotea, its delimitation is assessed in morphological detail. Sixty species of Endlicheria are recognized, of which 16 are newly described. Two species are transferred to Rhodostemonodaphne. Nine infrageneric species groups are informally recognized in Endlicheria. Of these, the Endlicheria punctulata species group is closer to species of the Ocotea cernua species group than to its congeners, in both molecular and morphological aspects. Representatives of each of the eight remaining species groups are united with a diverse representation of Rhodostemonodaphne in a well-supported but unresolved clade. The significance of this Endlicheria-Rhodostemonodaphne alliance is explored from a morphological perspective. It is suggested that the two-locellate anthers that distinguish Endlicheria from Rhodostemonodaphne evolved repeatedly. /// Se presenta una monografa taxonmica de Endlicheria, gnero perteneciente al complejo de Ocotea con centro de diversidad en Amrica del Sur; y con la ventaja de datos moleculares monstrando que sus miembros estn incluidos dentro de Rhodostemonodaphne y Ocotea, su delimitacin gnerica es evaluada morfolgicamente al detalle. Se reconocen 60 especies en Endlicheria, de las cuales 16 se describen como nuevas. Dos especies son transferidas a Rhodostemonodaphne. Nueve grupos infragenricos de especies son informalmente reconocidos en Endlicheria. De stos, el grupo de especies de Endlicheria punctulata est ms cercanamente emparentada al grupo de especies de Ocotea cernua que a las especies congenricas, tanto en los aspectos moleculares como en los morfolgicos. Los representantes de los ocho grupos de especies restantes, junto con una representacin diversa de Rhodostemonodaphne forman un clado con buen soporte pero sin resolucin. La importancia de la alianza Endlicheria-Rhodostemonodaphne es evaluada desde una perspectiva morfolgica. Es sugerido que las anteras con dos lculos que distinguen Endlicheria de Rhodostemonodaphne podran haber evolucionado repetidamente. 
4393860| The genus Piriqueta (Turneraceae) is mostly neotropical. It comprises two sections: section Piriqueta includes all 41 species native to the American continent, while section Africana contains only one species, P. capensis. Floral organization is the same in all the species of Piriqueta: there is a short calyx tube to which the petal claws and corona are adnate; the filaments are also briefly adnate to the base of the calyx tube. The peduncle and the pedicel are developed and free. The seed is reticulate in all the species. The presence of indumentum on the seed is in great measure correlated with the indumentum of calyx lobes. When the seed is minutely puberulent, inner lobes are pilose, with stripes of appressed, ordered, silky hairs just inside the membranaceous borders. When the seed is glabrous, inner lobes are glabrous or glabrescent on both sides of the middle vein. Only a few species show a different association of these characters. Two-thirds of the genus have puberulent seeds and calyx lobes almost completely hairy. More than half of these species have setiform glandular hairs and tuberculate fruits. Some of them have axillary inflorescences; the shrubby species of the genus are among these. Analyzing the distribution of the abovementioned characters, it may be assumed that the following are derived or specialized in the genus: the glabrous seed, the glabrescent inner calyx lobes, the lack of glandular setiform hairs, and the smooth fruit. The American species grow from southern United States to northern Argentina and Uruguay; 19 species have endemic areas, 16 have restricted distribution and only six are widely distributed. Because Piriqueta is not well represented in most herbaria now, these figures will probably be modified in the future. Several species are known only from the type or a small number of specimens. The generic center of variation is in the montane regions of Bahia (Brazil), where 19 species are found with eight being endemic. A second center is in Paraguay and surrounding regions, where 11 species are found, two of them endemic and seven with restricted areas. There are but few chromosome counts in Piriqueta. The basic number is x = 7; among the species studied, 30% are polyploids. /// El gnero Piriqueta es principalmente neotropical y comprende dos secciones: la seccin Piriqueta incluye las 41 especies nativas del continente americano, mientras que la seccin Africana est formada por una sola especie, P. capensis. El esquema de diferenciacin de las especies de Piriqueta es menos evidente que en el gnero Turnera; entre las especies americanas no hay caracteres fuertes, llamativos, que permitan estructurar filogenticamente el gnero. La organizacin floral es igual en todo el gnero Piriqueta: flores con las uas de los ptalos y la corona adnatas al tubo calicino; tambin los filamentos estn soldados brevemente en la base al tubo calicino. El pednculo y el pedicelo estn desarrollados y son libres. La semilla es reticulada en todas las especies. La pubescencia de las semillas est asociada en gran medida al indumento de los spalos. En las especies con semilla pilosiscula, los lbulos internos del cliz son pilosos, con bandas de pelos adpresos, ordenados, sedosos, por dentro de los bordes membranceos. En las especies con semilla glabra, los spalos internos son glabrescentes a ambos lados de la vena media. Pocos txones presentan una asociacin diferente de estos caracteres. Dos tercios del gnero presentan semilla pilosiscula y lbulos internos del cliz casi completamente pilosos. Ms de la mitad de dichas especies presentan pelos glandulares setiformes y frutos tuberculados. Algunas de estas especies poseen inflorescencias axilares, y entre ellas se cuentan las arbustivas. La distribucin de los caracteres mencionados hace suponer que en el gnero, son derivados o especializados los siguientes: la semilla glabra, los lbulos internos del cliz glabrescentes, la ausencia de pelos glandulares setiformes y el fruto liso. Las 41 especies americanas viven desde el sur de Estados Unidos hasta el norte de Argentina y Uruguay; 19 especies tienen distribucin local (endemismos), 16 ocupan reas restringidas, y solamente 6 ocupan reas amplias. Estas cifras pueden modificarse en el futuro, porque en general, Piriqueta es un gnero pobremente representado en los herbarios. Varias especies se conocen slo por el ejemplar tipo o por unos pocos especmenes. El centro de variacin del gnero est en las regiones montaosas de Bahia (Brasil), donde se encuentran 19 especies, de las cuales ocho son endmicas. Un segundo centro se encuentra en Paraguay y regiones vecinas, donde se hallan 11 especies, dos endmicas y siete de reas restringidas. Hay pocos recuentos cromosmicos de Piriqueta. El nmero bsico es x = 7; entre las especies estudiadas el 30% es poliploide. 
4393810| Plagiothecium, the only genus of the Plagiotheciaceae, is revised for all of Central America, the West Indies, and South America, and six species are recognized. Plagiothecium novo-granatense, with only scant decurrencies, occurs from Venezuela to Argentina and in southeastern Brazil. The closely related P. drepanophyllum has decurrencies more consistently present and occurs from Mexico to Colombia and in the Greater Antilles. Plagiothecium lucidum, recognized by its slender leaf apices and narrow leaf cells, occurs from Colombia to Tierra del Fuego with disjuncts in southeastern Brazil and the Dominican Republic. Plagiothecium conostegium, distinguished by its broad leaf cells and prominent decurrencies, occurs at high elevations in Mexico, Guatemala and the Dominican Republic, and in the northern Andes and Tierra del Fuego. Plagiothecium ovalifolium, with broadly acute leaves, is restricted in South America to southernmost Argentina and Chile. Plagiothecium falklandicum is recognized by julaceous plants and in South America is only in the Falkland Islands. All species are described and illustrated. Some taxa previously included in Plagiothecium are transferred to other genera: Isopterygium fontigenum (C. Mller) comb. nov. and Lepidopilidium regnellii (ngstrm) comb. nov. /// Plagiothecium, el nico gnero de las Plagiotheciaceae, ha sido revisado para Amrica Central, las Indias Occidentales y Amrica del Sur, y se han reconocido seis especies. Plagiothecium novo-granatense, con solamente decurrencias limitadas, ocurre de Venezuela a Argentina, y en el sudeste de Brasil. Plagiothecium drepanophyllum, muy relacionado con P. novo-granatense, tiene decurrencias ms frecuentes y ocurre de Mxico a Colombia y en las Antillas Mayores. Plagiothecium lucidum, reconocido por presentar en las hojas los apices delgados y clulas estrechas, ocurre de Colombia a Tierra del Fuego con disyunciones en el sudeste de Brasil y en la Repblica Dominicana. Plagiothecium conostegium, distinguido por las clulas amplias y decurrencias prominentes, ocurre en los Andes nrticos y Tierra del Fuego y en elevaciones altas de Mxico, Guatemala y la Repblica Dominicana. Plagiothecium ovalifolium, con hojas acutas, est restringido en la Amrica del Sur para la parte meridional de Argentina y Chile. Plagiothecium falklandicum est reconocido por plantas julaceas y en Amrica del Sur est solamente en las Islas Malvinas. Todas las especies estn descritas y ilustradas. Algunas taxa previamente incluidas en Plagiothecium han sido transferidas a otros gneros: Isopterygium fontigenum (C. Mller) comb. nov. y Lepidopilidium regnellii (ngstrm) comb. nov. 
4393866|A taxonomic revision of neotropical taxa in the order Caliciales sens. lat. excluding Sphaerophorus and comprising 51 species in 17 genera is presented. The order mainly contains lichenized species, but some species are parasymbiotic on lichens and others are saprophytic or parasitic on lichens or vascular plants. Most species have a passive spore dispersal and a well-developed mazaedium, i.e., an accumulation of mature spores remaining on or in the fruiting-bodies. The thallus in the species dealt with varies from well-developed and dactyliform in Acroscyphus to immersed in the substrate in several crustaceous genera. The order is not considered to be monophyletic. /// Se presenta una revisin taxanmica de los grupos neotropicales del orden Caliciales sens. lat. excluyendo Sphaerophorus y agrupando 51 especies en 17 gneros. El orden contiene principalmente especies liquenizadas, pero algunas especies son parasimbiticas sobre liquenes y otras saprofticas o parsitas sobre liquenes o plantes vasculares. La mayora de las especies tiene una dispersin pasiva de esporas y un macedio bien desarrollado, es decir, una acumulacin de esporas maduras que permanece sobre o dentro de los cuerpos fructferos. El talo en las especies se presenta con diferencias desde bien desarrollado y dactiliforme en Acroscyphus o sumergido en el sustrato en varios gneros crustceos. El orden no es considerado monofiltico.
4393956| A taxonomic monograph of the American genera of Proteaceae is presented with a systematic treatment of eight genera and 85 native species and two introduced species of Grevillea. It includes introductory material about the taxonomic history, systematic position, anatomy, biogeography, and conservation status of the rarer species. Full descriptions, nomenclature, identification keys, at least one illustration of each genus, and distribution maps of all species are provided. The status of seven taxa is changed. /// Esta monografia presenta os oito gneros e 85 espcies Americanos de Proteaceae e duas espcies introduzidas de Grevillea. Inclui tambm informao sobre histria taxonmica, posio sistemtica, anatomia, biogeografia e o estado de conservao das espcies mais raras. So includas descries, nomenclatura, chaves para identificao, e pelo menos uma ilustrao de cada gnero, e mapas de distibuio de todas as espcies. Sete txa tm sua posio taxnomica modificada. 
4393905| The present monograph includes the revisions of genera of the tribes Moreae and Artocarpeae, the genus Dorstenia, corrections and additions to genera treated in Fl. Neotrop. Monogr. 7, "Brosimeae," presently included in the tribe Dorstenieae, and "Olmedieae," presently Castilleae. They are preceded by an introduction to the family Moraceae and supplemented with brief introductions to the tribe Ficeae and the genus Ficus. The entities treated for the first time for Flora Neotropica comprise nine genera: Bagassa (1 sp.), Batocarpus (3 spp.), Clarisia (3 spp.), Dorstenia (46 spp.), Maclura (2 spp.), Morus (2 spp.), Poulsenia (1 sp.), Sorocea (14 spp.), and Trophis (5 spp.) - 77 species in total. Eight new species and two new subspecies were discovered for these genera during the preparation of the monograph, as well as a second yet-undescribed species for Poulsenia. This group of genera comprises many widespread and/or common species for which numerous collections have been examined and listed. However, in Dorstenia, many species are very limited in their distribution and the number of specimens examined is often limited to a few or sometimes only one. The group of the nine revised genera is in many respects highly diverse. For the group of genera treated in Monograph 7 the additions and corrections include: revised or extended descriptions of several species and subspecies, changed descriptions due to fusion of species previously recognized as distinct, indications and documentation for range extensions, some new combinations, full treatments of taxa discovered since the publication of Monograph 7 (12 species or subspecies), supplementary comments on genera and species, and partly or entirely revised keys to species for several genera. For this second group 70 species (in the nine genera) are recognized at present. The introduction to the family includes chapters dealing with the taxonomic history, morphology, pollination and dispersal, distribution and ecology, classification, diversification, use, and conservation. The genus Ficus (awaiting revision) is to some extent included in the introduction, in particular in the chapters or paragraphs dealing with habit, pollination, and distribution; moreover, a description of and a brief account of this genus are provided. In the present contribution, the new combinations Clarisia Ruiz & Pavn sect. Acanthinophyllum (Allemo) C. C. Berg, Pseudolmedia Trcul sect. Olmediopsis (Karsten) C. C. Berg, and Naucleopsis ulei subsp. amara (Ducke) C. C. Berg are made, and the new taxon Naucleopsis ulei (Warburg) Ducke subsp. subandina C. C. Berg is described. /// La presente monografia incluye las revisiones de los gneros de las tribus Moreae y Artocarpeae, el gnero Dorstenia, correcciones y adiciones a los gneros presentados en la Fl. Neotrop. Monogr. 7, "Brosimeae," actualmente incluida en la tribu Dorstenieae y "Olmedieae," actualmente Castilleae, precedidas por una introduccin a la familia Moraceae y complementadas con breves introducciones a la tribu Ficeae y al gnero Ficus. Los grupos tratados por primera vez en Flora Neotropica comprenden nueve gneros: Bagassa (1 spp.), Batocarpus (3 spp.), Clarisia (3 spp.), Dorstenia (46 spp.), Maclura (2 spp.), Morus (2 spp.), Poulsenia (1 spp.), Sorocea (14 spp.) y Trophis (5 spp.) - 77 especies en total. Ocho nuevas especies y dos nuevas subespecies fueron descubiertas para estos gneros durante la preparacin de la monografa, as como tambin una segunda especie, an no descrita de Poulsenia. Este grupo de gneros comprende muchas especies ampliamente distribuidas y/o comunes de las cuales se han examinado y se citan muchas colecciones. Sin embargo, en Dorstenia, muchas especies tienen una distribucin muy limitada y el nmero de muestras examinadas se limita a menudo a pocas y algunas veces solamente a una. El grupo de los nueve gneros revisados es, en muchos aspectos, extremadamente diverso. Para el grupo de gneros presentados en la Monografa 7, las adiciones y correcciones incluyen: descripciones revisadas o aumentadas de varias especies y subespecies, cambios en las descripciones debido a fusin de especies previamente tratadas como diferentes, indicaciones y documentacin para extensiones en los rangos, algunas combinaciones nuevas, tratamientos completos de taxa descubiertos luego de la publicacin de la Monografa 7 (doce especies o subespecies), observaciones complementarias acerca de los gneros y las especies, se revisan parcial o totalmente las claves, para las especies y varios gneros. Para este segundo grupo se reconocen en la actualidad 70 especies en nueve gneros. La introduccin a la familia incluye captulos acerca de la historia taxonmica, morfologa, polinizacin y dispersin, distribucin y ecologia, clasificacin, diversificacin, usos y conservacin. El gnero Ficus (an por revisar) est incluido hasta cierto punto en la introduccin, en particular en captulos o prrafos que se refieren al hbito, polinizacin y distribucin; adems, se provee una descripcin y una pequea relacin de este gnero. En la presente contribucin, se hacen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: Clarisia Ruiz & Pavn sect. Acanthinophyllum (Allemo) C. C. Berg, Pseudolmedia Trcul sect. Olmediopsis (Karsten) C. C. Berg, and Naucleopsis ulei (Warburg) Ducke subsp. amara (Ducke) C. C. Berg y se describe el nuevo taxon Naucleopsis ulei (Warburg) Ducke subsp. subandina C. C. Berg. /// A presente monografia inclui revises dos gneros das tribos Moreae e Artocarpeae, do gnero Dorstenia, correes e acrscimos para os gneros tratados na Fl. Neotrop. Monogr. 7, "Brosimeae" atualmente incluida na tribo Dorstenieae e "Olmedieae," atualmente Castilleae. So todas precedidas por uma introduo para a famlia Moraceae e complementadas com breve introdues para a tribo Ficeae e para o gnero Ficus. As entidadas tratadas pela primeira vez para a Flora Neotrpica abrangem nove gneros: Bagassa (1 sp.), Batocarpus (3 spp.), Clarisia (3 spp.), Dorstenia (46 spp.), Maclura (2 spp.), Morus (2 spp.), Poulsenia (1 sp.), Sorocea (14 spp.) e Trophis (5 spp.) - num total de 77 espcies. Durante a preparao da monografia foram descobertos para estes gneros oito novas espcies e duas novas subespcies, assim como uma segunda espcie para Poulsenia, ainda no descrita. Este grupo de gneros compreende muitas espcies comuns e/ou amplamente distribudas, para as quais foram examinadas e listadas numerosas colees. Todavia, em Dorstenia, muitas espcies possuem distribuio limitada e o nmero de amostras examinadas foi reduzido ou somente um. O grupo dos nove gneros revisados , sob mltiplos aspectos, altamente diversificado. Os acrscimos e correes para o grupo dos gneros tratados na Monografia 7 incluem: descries revisadas ou ampliadas de vrias espcies e subespcies, descries alteradas por causa da fuso de espcies previamente reconhecidas como distintas, indicaes e documentao para a extenso de ocorncia, algumas novas combinaes, tratamento completo dos taxa descobertos desde a publicao da Monografia 7 (doze espcies e subespcies), comentrios suplementares para os gneros e espcies e chaves para as espcies de vrios gneros parcial ou inteiramente revisados. Para este segundo grupo so reconhecidas atualmente 70 espcies (nos nove gneros). A introduo para a famlia inclui captulos com abordagem da histria taxonmica, morfologia, polinizao e disperso, distribuio geogrfica e ecologia, classificao, diversificao, uso e conservao. O gnero Ficus (aguardando reviso)  abordado com alguma extenso na introduo, em particular nos captulos ou pargrafos que tratam sobre o hbito, polinizao e distribuio; alm disso, so acrescentadas uma descrio e uma sntese desse gnero. Na presente contribuio so feitas as novas combinaes Clarisia sect. Acanthinophyllum (Allemo) C. C. Berg, Pseudolmedia Trcul sect. Olmediopsis (Karsten) C. C. Berg e Naucleopsis (Warburg) Ducke subsp. amara (Ducke) C. C. Berg, e  descrito o novo txon Naucleopsis ulei subsp. subandina C. C. Berg. 
4393871| Ten species and one variety of Roystonea are recognized from in and around the Caribbean basin. Species are circumscribed on the bases of morphological characteristics. A cladistic analysis suggests that some previously recognized subgenera and sections were artificial or metaphyletic. The following nomenclatural changes are made: Roystonea oleracea var. jenmanii comb. nov. and R. maisiana stat. nov. /// Se reconozen diez especies y una variedad de Roystonea en la cuenca del Caribe y reas circumvecinas. Las especies se circumscriben en base a sus caractersticas morfolgicas. Un analysis cladstico indica que algunos subgeneros y secciones previamente propuestos son artificiales y parafylticos o metafylticos. Se hacen los siguentes cambios nomenclaturales: Roystonea oleracea var. jenmanii comb. nov. y R. maisiana stat. nov. 
4393914| Smut fungi in the Neotropics are represented here by 227 species in 34 genera. Fresh material and herbarium specimens were used for the investigation of sori, teliospores, basidia, and sterile fungal cells by light microscopy. The ornamentation of the teliospores is documented by scanning electron microscopical pictures. The neotropical smut fungi infect 364 different species of host plants, of which about 55% belong to the Poaceae and 17% belong to the Cyperaceae. The remaining host species belong to 18 different families of angiosperms. One new species, Jamesdicksonia caribensis, two new names, Sporisorium paspalicola and Ustilago hilariae-henningsii, as well as 12 new combinations are proposed: Jamesdicksonia major, Jamesdicksonia sporoboli, Sporisorium andropogonis-hirtifolii, Sporisorium ellisii, Sporisorium goyazanum, Sporisorium leucostachys, Sporisorium panicipetrosi, Sporisorium peruvianum, Sporisorium seymourianum, Sporisorium tepicense, Sporisorium vesiculosum, and Ustanciosporium dichromenae. Seven neotypes and 13 lectotypes are designated. /// Carbones del neotrpico cuentan aqu con 227 especies en 34 gneros. Material fresco y muestras de herbario formaron la base para investigar los soros, telisporas, basidios y clulas estriles del hongo con microscopa de luz. La ornamentacin de las telisporas se documenta con fotos de microscopa electrnica de barrido. Los carbones del neotrpico infectan 364 especies de plantas hospederas diferentes, de las cuales aproximadamente 55% son gramneas y 17% ciperceas. Las dems plantas hospederas pertenecen a 18 familias diferentes de angiospermas. Se presentan una especie nueva, Jamesdicksonia caribensis, dos nombres nuevos, Sporisorium paspalicola y Ustilago hilariae-henningsii, y 12 combinaciones nuevas: Jamesdicksonia major, Jamesdicksonia sporoboli, Sporisorium andropogonis-hirtifolii, Sporisorium ellisii, Sporisorium goyazanum, Sporisorium leucostachys, Sporisorium panici-petrosi, Sporisorium peruvianum, Sporisorium seymourianum, Sporisorium tepicense, Sporisorium vesiculosum, y Ustanciosporium dichromenae. Se designan 7 neotipos y 13 lectotipos. 
4393845| The Lejeuneaceae (Hepaticae) are represented in the New World by an estimated 50 genera and several hundreds of species. This monograph treats the 22 New World genera of the tribes Ptychantheae and Brachiolejeuneae. Of about three hundred previously described species, 65 species have been retained. They are mostly epiphytes of humid tropical forests at low or mid elevations. Most of the species are restricted to the neotropics and the greatest species diversity is found in northwestern South America and the Guianas. Dry regions have only few species. Over 25% of the species are limited to undisturbed rain forest and about 10% are threatened with extinction due to deforestation. The species of tribes Ptychantheae and Brachiolejeuneae are characterized by undivided underleaves and have traditionally been classified in the subfamily "Ptychanthoideae" or "Holostipae." In this treatment the Ptychantheae are retained in the Ptychanthoideae, but the Brachiolejeuneae are moved to the subfamily Lejeuneoideae, with which they share many unique sprophytic features: thin-walled capsules, elaters with rudimentary spirals, decussate tetrads, rectangular spores, etc. In the Ptychantoideae the capsule walls are thickened, the elaters have a distinct spiral, and the spores are isodiametric and arranged in tetrahedral tetrads. The sporophytic differences are correlated with a remarkably different spore-discharge process in the two groups. In the Ptychantheae capsule dehiscence is violent and spore discharge explosive. In Brachiolejeuneae it is much more gentle. The sporophytic features of the Ptychantheae are shared with Frullania and are interpreted as a xeromorphic adaptation. The better drought resistance of spores and sporelings and the frequently convoluted leaves of the taxa of Ptychantheae are further xeromorphic features of this group. Generic relationships within the Ptychantheae and the Brachiolejeuneae have been assessed by means of a cladistic analysis of the genera recognized world-wide. The cladograms show the existence of three clades in the Ptychantheae and two in the Brachiolejeuneae, which are ranked as subtribes. The use of the "genus complex" as a unit of generic classification in the Lejeuneaceae has been abandoned. The following new names and combinations are proposed: Acanthocoleus aberrans var.laevis, Archilejeunea bischleriana, A. ludoviciana subsp. ludoviciana, A. ludoviciana subsp. porelloides, A. porelloides subsp. chocoensis, Brachiolejeunea sect. Phyllorhizae, Brachiolejeunea conduplicata, Lejeuneaceae tribe Nipponolejeuneae, Lejeuneaceae subtribe Acrolejeuninae, Lejeuneaceae subtribe Brachiolejeuninae and Lejeuneaceae subtribe Stictolejeuninae. /// Las Lejeuneaceae (Hepaticae) estn representadas en el Nuevo Mundo por aproximadamente 50 gneros y algunos cientos de especies. La presente monografa trata los 22 gneros de la tribu Ptychantheae y Brachiolejeuneae del Nuevo Mundo. De aproximadamente 300 especies descritas anteriormente, 65 han sido retenidas en este trabajo. Ellas son en su mayor parte epfitas de la selva hmeda tropical. La mayor parte de las especies son restringidas a los neotrpicos y la mayor diversidad de especies se encuentra en el noroeste de Suramrica y en Guianas. Regiones secas poseen pocas especies. Por encima del 25% de las especies estn limitadas a selva no intervenida y cerca del 10% estn amenazadas de extincin debido a la deforestacin. Las especies de las tribus Ptychantheae y Brachiolejeuneae se caracterizan por tener anfigastros no divididos y pertenecen tradicionalmente a la subfamilia "Ptychanthoideae" o "Holostipae." En este trabajo las Ptychantheae estn clasificados en las Ptychanthoideae pero las Brachiolejeuneae estn trasladadas a la subfamilia Lejeuneoideae con la cual comparten muchos caracteres nicos del esporofito: cpsulas de pared delgada, elateras con espiral rudimentario, tetrados decusados, esporas rectangulares, etc. En Ptychanthoideae las cpsulas tienen paredes gruesas, elateras con espiral, tetrados tetrahdricos, esporas isodiamtricas, etc. Las diferencias esporofticas estn relacionadas con una notable diferencia en el proceso de descarga de esporas. En las Ptychantheae la dehiscencia de la cpsula es violenta y se presenta una explosiva descarga de esporas. En Brachiolejeuneae esta es mucho mas suave. Los caracteres esporofticos de las Ptychantheae se encuentran tambin en Frullania y son interpretados como una adaptacin xeromrfica. La mejor resistencia a la sequa de las esporas y la frecuencia de hojas convolutas de las Ptychantheae son adems rasgos xeromrficos de este grupo. Relaciones genricas dentro de las Ptychantheae y las Brachiolejeuneae han sido evaluadas por medio de anlisis cladstico. Los cladogramas muestran la existencia de tres clades en las Ptychantheae y dos en las Brachiolejeuneae, las cuales son clasificadas como subtribus. El uso del "genus complex" como una unidad de clasificacin genrica en las Lejeuneaceae ha sido abandonada. Se propusieron los siguientes nuevos nombres y combinaciones: Acanthocoleus aberrans var.laevis, Archilejeunea bischlerianan, A. ludoviciana subsp. ludoviciana, A. ludoviciana subsp. porelloides, A. porelloides subsp. chocoensis, Brachiolejeunea sect. Phyllorhizae, Brachiolejeunea conduplicata, Lejeuneaceae tribe Nipponolejeuneae, Lejeuneaceae subtribe Acrolejeuninae, Lejeuneaceae subtribe Brachiolejeuninae y Lejeuneaceae subtribe Stictolejeuninae. 
4393887| The tribe Rondeletieae, as here circumscribed, is a predominantly neotropical group of trees, shrubs, and rarely herbs. In the Neotropics it is represented by approximately 42 genera and 340 species. The present volume is the first part of a series in which the monographic treatment of the neotropical Rondeletieae is planned. For this reason, a general definition and a taxonomic survey of this group, as well as a list of all the genera, their approximate number of species and their distribution, and a key to all the genera are included. This study originated as a revision of the tribe Condamineeae (sensu Hooker), a group of predominantly neotropical shrubs and trees (except Pinckneya from North America, and Bikkia and Badusa from the South Pacific), usually delimited by having valvate corollas and many-seeded capsules. The Condamineeae were subdivided by Hooker into three subtribes: Condamineinae, Portlandiinae, and Pinckneyinae. As a result of phylogenetic analyses using morphological characters, the Condamineeae (sensu Hooker) has been shown to be paraphyletic. The genera of the Portlandiinae have been transferred to the newly amended tribe Catesbaeeae sensu Delprete, and genera of the Condamineinae and Pinckneyinae transferred to the Rondeletieae, resulting in a complete dismantling of the Condamineeae. The Sipaneeae (Sipanea, Sipanaeopsis, Limnosipanea, and Neobertiera) are included in a broad delimitation of the Rondeletieae sensu Delprete. Additionally, Phyllomelia (with bi-seeded indehiscent fruits, i.e., pseudosamaras), recently treated as genus incertae sedis by Robbrecht, is also included in the Rondeletieae s.l., and believed to be related to Mazaea. The neotropical genera treated in the present monograph are those of the subtribes Condamineinae and Pinckneyinae, now included in the Rondeletieae, plus a few related genera: Rustia, Tresanthera, Condaminea, Picardaea, Pogonopus, Chimarrhis, Dioicodendron, Parachimarrhis, Molopanthera, and Dolichodelphys. Forty-six taxa, 40 species, and 6 varieties, are recognized in the 10 genera listed above. /// La tribu Rondeletieae, como est aqu circunscrita, es un grupo predominantemente neotropical de rboles, arbustos y raramente hierbas. En el Neotrpico la tribu est representada por aproximadamente 42 gneros y 340 especies. El presente volumen es la primera parte de una serie en la cual se est programando el tratamiento monogrfico de los gneros neotropicales de las Rondeletieae. Por lo tanto, se incluyen aqu una descripcin de la tribu, un listado de todos los gneros, con nmero aproximado de especies y su distribucin geogrfica, y una clave para todos los gneros neotropicales de este grupo. El presente estudio se origin a partir de una revisin de la tribu Condamineeae (sensu Hooker), un grupo predominantemente neotropical (a excepcin de Pinckneya, endmico de Norte Amrica, y Bikkia y Badusa endmicos del Pacfico Sur) de rboles y arbustos, usualmente caracterizado por corolas valvadas y cpsulas con muchas semillas. Las Condamineeae fueron divididas por Hooker en tres subtribus: Condamineinae, Portlandiinae y Pinckneyinae. Como resultado de un anlisis filogentico usando datos morfolgicos, se demostr que la tribu Condamineeae (sensu Hooker) es un grupo parafiltico. Los gneros de la subtribu Portlandiinae fueron transferidos a la tribu Catesbaeeae, recientemente enmendada por Delprete, y los gneros de las Condamineinae y Pinckneyinae fueron transferidos a las Rondeletieae, causando as el completo desmembramiento de la tribu Condamineeae. La tribu Sipaneeae (Sipanea, Sipanaeopsis, Limnosipanea and Neobertiera) est tambin incluida en una ms amplia delimitacin de las Rondeletieae sensu Delprete. Adicionalmente, Phyllomelia (con frutos indehiscentes y con dos semillas, i.e., pseudosamaras), recentemente tratado como genus incertae sedis por Robbrecht, es tambin incluido en las Rondeletieae s.l. y certamente relacionado con Mazaea. Los gneros neotropicales tratados en la presente monografia, tradicionalmente includos en las Condamineineae y Pinckneyinae y ahora transferidos a las Rondeletieae (a los cuales se aaden unos gneros relacionados), son: Rustia, Tresanthera, Condaminea, Picardaea, Pogonopus, Chimarrhis, Dioicodendron, Parachimarrhis, Molopanthera y Dolichodelphys. Cuarenta y seis taxa (40 especies y 6 variedades) son descritos en los 10 gneros anteriormente listados. 
4393884| The genus Pavonia (Malvaceae) is probably the largest genus of its family, containing approximately 250 species, of which 224 are here recognized from the Americas. The New World species are subdivided into five subgenera, which are further subdivided into 15 sections and seven subsections to better portray relationships within this very diverse genus. Pavonia subgen. Pavonia includes 114 species; P. subgen. Asterochlamys, 32 species; P. subgen. Malache, 18 species; P. subgen. Typhalea, 34 species; and P. subgen. Goetheoides, 26 species. As in Malvaceae generally, the flowers in Pavonia are monadelphous, with a central staminal column and usually numerous anthers, with five petals inserted at the base of the staminal column and five sepals forming a more or less gamosepalous calyx. The flower is subtended by an involucel (or epicalyx) made up of from 4 to 24 bracts. Fruit characters are important in distinguishing the subgenera, including spines, rugosities, and other ornamentation; the relative length of the carpel and the column to which it is attached; and whether the mature carpel is dehiscent or indehiscent. An unusual feature of Pavonia (in common with the other seven genera of the tribe Malvavisceae) is the possession of 10 styles and stigmas in the flower but only 5 carpels in the fruit. Although Pavonia is predominantly tropical, a few species reach into the temperate zones in the southern United States and in northern Argentina. Many species are of limited distribution, whereas a few are widespread and sometimes weedy. They occupy a wide variety of habitats, ranging from mangrove associations to rain forests to seasonally dry deciduous forests to more open (often dry) environments. The base chromosome number for Pavonia is x = 7, with reported counts ranging from 2n = 28 (tetraploid) to 2n = 112 (16-ploid), with known ploidy levels of 4x, 6x, 8x, and 16x. The following species are herein described as new: Pavonia aschersonioides, P. atlantica, P. aurelii, P. clarkii, P. cristobaliae, P. decora, P. formosa, P. froesii, P. heterotricha, P. hirticalyx, P. immitis, P. krapovickasii, P. longitricha, P. longitudinalis, P. nayarensis, P. neei, P. paransis, P. pedersenii, P. pseudolaxifolia, P. quadrifida, P. rudis, P. sepioides, P. spuria, and P. vanii. In addition, the following new combinations are made: P. benadirensis (based on Marconia benadirensis Mattei), P. cauliflora (based on Goethea cauliflora Nees), P. glaziovii (based on Codonochlamys glaziovii Ulbrich), P. goetheoides (based on Blanchetiastrum goetheoides Hassler), P. mogotensis (based on Hibiscus mogotensis Carabia), P. ramosissima (based on Pavonia sepium var. ramosissima Arechavaleta), P. setifer (based on Hibiscus setifer Presl), P. strictiflora (based on Goethea strictiflora Hooker), and P. tiliifolia (based on Codonochlamys tiliifolia Ulbrich). New names in infrageneric rank are proposed as follows: Pavonia sect. Albae, P. subgen. Asterochlamys, P. sect. Carcerariae, P. sect. Collicolae, P. subsect. Conditiflorae, P. subsect. Cordifoliae, P. sect. Diathericae, P. subsect. Hastifoliae, P. sect. Laminares, P. subgen. Malache, P. subsect. Rubriflorae, and P. sect. Varians. /// El gnero Pavonia probablemente representa el gnero ms grande de la familia Malvaceae, abarcando alrededor de 250 especies, de las cuales 224 aqu reconozco para las Amricas. Las especies del Nuevo Mundo se colocan en cinco subgneros, los cuales se dividen en 15 secciones y siete subsecciones, con el fin de mejor dilucidar las interrelaciones dentro de este gnero tan diverso. Pavonia subgen. Pavonia abarca 114 especies; P. subgen. Asterochlamys, 32 especies; P. subgen. Malache, 18 especies; P. subgen. Typhalea, 34 especies; y P. subgen. Goetheoides, 26 especies. Al igual que las malvceas en general, las flores de Pavonia son monadelfas, con una columna estaminal central y usualmente con anteras numerosas, con cinco ptalos insertos en la base de la columna estaminal, y con cinco sepalos formando un cliz ms o menos gamospalo. Un calculo (o epicliz) abraza cada flor y contiene desde cuatro hasta 24 brcteas. Los caracteres de los frutos, tales como las espinas, rugosidades, y otros tipos de ornamentacin; la longitud del carpelo en relacin a la de la columna adjunta; y la naturaleza dehiscente o no del carpelo maduro, son importantes para distinguir a los subgneros. Una peculiaridad notable de Pavonia (junto con los siete otros gneros de la tribu Malvavisceae) es la presencia de diez estilos y estigmas en la flor pero solamente cinco carpelos en el fruto. Aunque la mayora de las especies de Pavonia son de distribucin tropical, unas pocas llegan hasta las zonas templadas del sur de los Estados Unidos y el norte de la Repblica Argentina. Muchas especies son de distribucin restringida, mientras que unas pocas son de distribucin amplia y a veces llegan a ser malezas. Se encuentran en diversos habitats, desde manglares y selvas perennifolias hasta bosques deciduos y en ambientes ms abiertos (a menudo ridos). El nmero cromosmico base de Pavonia es x = 7; los recuentos reportados, desde 2n = 28 (tetraploide) hasta 2n = 112 (16-ploide), representan niveles de ploidia de 4x, 6x, 8x, y 16x. Se describe las siguientes especies como nuevas: Pavonia aschersonioides, P. atlantica, P. aurelii, P. clarkii, P. cristobaliae, P. decora, P. formosa, P. froesii, P. heterotricha, P. hirticalyx, P. immitis, P. krapovickasii, P. longitricha, P. longitudinalis, P. nayarensis, P. neei, P. paransis, P. pedersenii, P. pseudolaxifolia, P. quadrifida, P. rudis, P. sepioides, P. spuria y P. vanii. Adems, se proponen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: P. benadirensis (basado en Marconia benadirensis Mattei), P. cauliflora (basado en Goethea cauliflora Nees), P. glaziovii (basado en Codonochlamys glaziovii Ulbrich), P. goetheoides (basado en Blanchetiastrum goetheoides Hassler), P. mogotensis (basado en Hibiscus mogotensis Carabia), P. ramosissima (basado en Pavonia sepium var. ramosissima Arechavaleta), P. setifer (basado en Hibiscus setifer Presl), P. strictiflora (basado en Goethea strictiflora Hooker) y P. tiliifolia (basado en Codonochlamys tiliifolia Ulbrich). Nombres nuevos en rango infragenrico se proponen como en siguiente: Pavonia sect. Albae, P. subgen. Asterochlamys, P. sect. Carcerariae, P. sect. Collicolae, P. subsect. Conditiflorae, P. subsect. Cordifoliae, P. sect. Diathericae, P. subsect. Hastifoliae, P. sect. Laminares, P. subgen. Malache, P. subsect. Rubriflorae y P. sect. Varians. 
4393878| The lichenized genus Syncesia is monographed. Seventeen species are recognized, all fructiferous. Imperfect taxa are unknown. Two new species are described: Syncesia leprobola and S. rhizomorpha. Three species are transferred from Schismatomma: Syncesia albiseda (Nylander) Tehler, S. flavescens (Nylander) Tehler, and S. psaroleuca (Nylander) Tehler. Twelve species are transferred from Chiodecton: Syncesia byssina (Vainio) Tehler, S. decussans (Nylander) Tehler, S. depressa (Fe) Tehler, S. effusa (Fe) Tehler, S. farinacea (Fe) Tehler, S. glyphysoides (Fe) Tehler, S. graphica (Fries) Tehler, S. hawaiiensis (Zahlbruckner) Tehler, S. intercedens (Mller) Tehler, S. mollis (Mller) Tehler, S. myrticola (Fe) Tehler, and S. sulphurea (Vainio) Tehler. Chiodecton lacteum Fe, C. subfarinaceum Stirton, and Schismatomma leucopsarum Nylander are dubious taxa and S. usambarense (Mller) Zahlbruckner is synonymous with Sigridea albella. Most Syncesia species are restricted to the neotropical region, with some species reaching southern United States and Hawaii. Four species are non-neotropical, with one restricted to southwestern Europe, two to Tanzania, and one to Australasia. Syncesia is bound mainly to dry areas of the tropics and subtropics. A key, descriptions, and distribution maps are supplied. A cladistic analysis based on morphological data and chemical data was performed, and a phylogenetic hypothesis of species relationships is proposed. /// Este es una monografa sobre el lichenizado gnero Syncesia. Diez y siete especies son reconosidas, todas frutales. Imperfectos taxones desconocidos. Se describen dos nuevas especies: Syncesia leprobola y S. rhizomorpha. Tres especies se transfieren a Schismatomma: Syncesia albiseda (Nylander) Tehler, S. flavescens (Nylander) Tehler y S. psaroleuca (Nylander) Tehler. Desde Chiodecton se transfieren doce especies: Syncesia byssina (Vainio) Tehler, S. decussans (Nylander) Tehler, S. depressa (Fe) Tehler, S. effusa (Fe) Tehler, S. farinacea (Fe) Tehler, S. glyphysoides (Fe) Tehler, S. graphica (Fries) Tehler, S. hawaiiensis (Zahlbruckner) Tehler, S. intercedens (Mller) Tehler, S. mollis (Mller) Tehler, S. myrticola (Fe) Tehler y S. sulphurea (Vainio) Tehler. Chiodecton lacteum Fe, C. subfarinaceum Stirton y Schismatomma leucopsarum Nylander son taxones dudosos y S. usambarense (Mller) Zahlbruckner es sinnimo de Sigridea albella. La mayor parte de las especies de Syncesia son limitadas a la regin neotropical y algunas de ellas se extienden hasta el sur de los Estados Unidos y Hawaii. Cuatro especies son non-neotropicas, una especie limitada al sudoeste de Europa, dos a Tanzania y una a Australasia. Syncesia esta en su mayor parte restringida a las reas secas de las regines tropicales y subtropicales. Se ofrecen un clave, descripcines, y mapas de distribucin. Se hace un analysis cladstico basado en datos morpholgicos y qumicos, y se presenta una hiptesis filogentica. 
25660972|Sipman, H. J. M. (Botanic Garden & Botanical Museum, Free University, Koenigin-Luise-Str. 6-8, D-14195 Berlin, Germany, h.sipman@bgbm.org). Elix, J. A. (Department of Chemistry, Building 33, Australian National University, Canberra ACT 0200, Australia, John.Elix@anu.edu.au). Nash III, T. H. (School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, 85287-4501, USA, tom.nash@asu.edu). Hypotrachyna (Parmeliaceae, Lichenized Fungi). Flora Neotropica Monograph 104: 1179. 2009.A total of 140 species of Hypotrachyna (Parmeliaceae, lichenized fungi) are recognized from the Neotropics. This is well over 50% of the species known worldwide in this primarily tropical genus and includes 85 species thus far known only from the Neotropics. Keys are provided; synonymy, descriptions, secondary chemistry, distribution maps, habitats, and a selection of herbarium voucher specimens are given for each species. The following species are described as new to science: H. aguirrei Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. ahtiana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. alectorialiorum Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. anzeana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. brevidactylata Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. cerradensis Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. convexa R. P. Baayen & H. Rugenbrink ex Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. cunhaensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. flavospinulosa Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. fletcheri Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. hafellneri Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. halei Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. isolopezii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. kalbii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. klauskalbii Fletcher ex Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. mattickiana Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. microblastella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. neocrenata Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. neoscytodes Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. norlopezii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. noskeiae Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. protocetrarica Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. protochlorina Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. protoformosana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. pseudolopezii Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. salreducens Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sanjosensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sinuosella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sordidella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. spinulosa Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. subformosana Hale ex Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. tibellii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. tombadorensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. vainioi Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. virensica Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. wirthii Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, and H. zamoraensis Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash. Many previously described taxa are reduced to synonymy. Sipman, H. J. M. (Botanic Garden & Botanical Museum, Free University, Koenigin-Luise-Str. 6-8, D-14195 Berlin, Germany, h.sipman@bgbm.org). Elix, J. A. (Department of Chemistry, Building 33, Australian National University, Canberra ACT 0200, Australia, John.Elix@anu.edu.au). Nash III, T. H. (School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, 85287-4501, USA, tom.nash@asu.edu). Hypotrachyna (Parmeliaceae, Lichenized Fungi). Flora Neotropica Monograph 104: 1179. 2009.Un total de 140 especies del gnero Hypotrachyna estan reconocidos del Neotrpico. Este figura es bien mas que 50% de los especies conocidos del mundo en este gnero principalmente tropical, y incluye 85 especies conocidos hasta ahora solamente del Neotrpico. Claves para las especies estan includios. Se presentan sinonima, descripcines, qumica secundaria, mapas de distribucin, informacin sobre los habitates, y una seleccin de los especimenes de herbario investigados para cada especie. Los siguientes especies son descritos come nuevos para la sciencia: H. aguirrei Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. ahtiana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. alectorialiorum Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. anzeana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. brevidactylata Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. cerradensis Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. convexa R. P. Baayen & H. Rugenbrink ex Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. cunhaensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. flavospinulosa Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. fletcheri Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. hafellneri Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. halei Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. isolopezii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. kalbii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. klauskalbii Fletcher ex Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. mattickiana Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. microblastella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. neocrenata Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. neoscytodes Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. norlopezii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. noskeiae Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. protocetrarica Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. protochlorina Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. protoformosana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. pseudolopezii Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. salreducens Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sanjosensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sinuosella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sordidella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. spinulosa Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. subformosana Hale ex Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. tibellii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. tombadorensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. vainioi Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. virensica Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. wirthii Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, and H. zamoraensis Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash. Varios taxones son reducidos al la sinonima.
4393881| A revision of the pines native to Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean is presented. Of the 47 species recognized, most are endemic to this region, but a number extend into Mexico from the United States, while P. elliottii var. densa is included because it occurs on the Florida Keys in the Caribbean. The extensive synonymy has been largely resolved by (lecto-)typification. Some taxonomic and nomenclatural problems have been addressed in previous papers; only one new combination, P. arizonica var. cooperi (C. E. Blanco) Farjon, is proposed here. All species are fully illustrated. The introduction covers all aspects of pines that are of interest to both taxonomists and more general readers, and includes specialist contributions on wood anatomy (I. D. Gourlay), pollen morphology (M. H. Kurmann), and taxonomy based on monoterpenes (J. S. Birks). /// Se presenta una revisin de los pinos nativos de Mxico, Centroamrica y el Caribe. La mayora de las 47 especies reconocidas son endmicas a sta regin, pero algunas se extienden hacia Mxico desde los Estados Unidos, y se incluye P. elliotii var. densa porque se encuentra en las islas de Florida en el Caribe. La sinonima muy extensiva en el gnero, se ha resuelto en gran parte por medio de (lecto-) tipificacin. Algunos problemas taxonmicos y de nomenclatura fueron discutidos en varias publicaciones anteriores; se propone aqu solamente una combinacin nueva: P. arizonica var. cooperi (C. E. Blanco) Farjon. Todas las especies estn ampliamente grabadas. Los captulos preliminares incluyen todos los aspectos de los pinos de inters para taxnomos tanto para los lectores mas generales, e incluyen contribuciones escritas por especialistas sobre anatoma de la madera (I. D. Gourlay), morfologa del polen (M. H. Kurmann) y aspectos taxonmicos con relacin al anlisis de monoterpenoides (J. S. Birks). 
4393875| A taxonomic revision of the neotropical genus Allagoptera Nees (Palmae: Arecoideae: Cocoeae: Butiinae) is presented. The systematic position of Allagoptera is discussed and four species are recognized. The vegetative and floral anatomy, morphology, chemotaxonomy, phylogeny, and evolution, ecology and distribution, uses, and conservation status of the genus Allagoptera are reviewed. This genus typically has an acaulescent habit and is distributed in open savannas and related types of vegetation between sea level and 1200 m elevation. One species is endemic to northeastern Brazil, while the other three have a wider distribution in South America. /// El presente trabajo es una revisin taxonmica del gnero neotropical Allagoptera Nees (Palmae: Arecoideae: Cocoeae: Butiinae) en el cual se reconocen cuatro especies. Se analiza la posicin sistemtica de Allagoptera. Se resean las caractersticas del gnero en relacin a su anatoma vegetativa y reproductiva, morfologa, quimiotaxonoma, filogenia y evolucin, ecologa y distribucin, as como usos y estado de conservacin. Las especies de Allagoptera, de hbito tpicamente acaule, se encuentran en reas abiertas de sabana y cerrado entre el nivel del mar y 1200 m de elevacin. Una de las especies es endmica del noreste de Brasil, mientras que las tres restantes tienen distribucin ms amplia en Amrica del Sur. 
4393836| Leucophanes the only genus in the Leucophanaceae is revised for Central America, the Caribbean and South America. The most characteristic feature of the gametophyte in Leucophanes is its leaf structure. It is considered that the leaf is composed of a costa (midstereid band), a multistratose (chlorocysts and hyalocysts) area and an all hyaline laminal area. A single species, L. molleri is recognized for the Neotropics. Only female gametophytes are known for populations in the Americas whereas in Africa both sexes occur and sporophytes are produced. The species is described and illustrated. Previously described Southamerican taxa, L. brasiliense, L. calymperatum and L. mittenii are considered synonyms of L. molleri. /// Leucophanes, el nico gnero de la Leucophanaceae ha sido revisado para America Central, el Caribe y Suramrica. La caracterstica ms importante de la gametfita de Leucophanes es su estructura foliar. Se considera que la hoja est compuesta por una costa (banda media de estereidas) y una lmina con un rea multiestratificada (con clorocistos y hialocistos) y un rea toda hialina. Se reconoce una sola especie para el Neotrpico, L. molleri. Slo gametfitos femeninos se conocen para las poblaciones de Amrica mientras que en Africa se reportan ambos sexos y tambin la produccin de esporfitas. Se describe e ilustra la especie. Taxa previamente descritos para Suramrica, L. brasiliense, L. calymperatum y L. mittenii se consideran sinnimos de L. molleri. 
4393917| The tribe Melicocceae is characterized by the presence of a single apotropous, basal ovule per carpel; compound leaves with a distal rudimentary leaflet or process; actinomorphic flowers; non-arillate seeds, sometimes with a sarcotesta; and indehiscent unlobed fruits, not showing individual carpels. The American genera of Melicocceae (Talisia and Melicoccus) are further characterized by the presence of a sarcotesta. Melicoccus is characterized by an arboreal habit; paripinnately compound leaves with one, two or three pairs of leaflets; a distal rudimentary leaflet or process; racemes, panicles or thyrses; actinomorphic 4-(5-) merous flowers; bi- or tricarpellate gynoecium, with complete or less often incomplete septae; baccate fruits with coriaceous mesocarp; seeds with sarcotesta; and a lomatorrhizal embryo with erect cotyledons and punctiform radicle. The natural distribution of Melicoccus ranges from southern Mexico (Yucatan Peninsula) to South America on the periphery of the Amazon area, south to northern Argentina, Bolivia, and Paraguay and a disjunct species in Dominican Republic. Melicoccus bijugatus and M. oliviformis are distributed throughout the tropics through cultivation, while the other two species are largely restricted to their natural ranges. Melicoccus jimenezii of the Dominican Republic is an endangered species. Talisia is characterized by an arboreal or shrubby habit; pinnately compound leaves with a distal process or rudimentary leaflet; panicle-shaped or racemiform thyrses with flowers arranged in lateral dichasia; actinomorphic 5-merous flowers; petals with a single adaxial petal-like appendage; tricarpellate gynoecium with complete septa; baccate fruits; seeds with sarcotesta; and notorrhizal or lomatorrhizal embryos. The genus is distributed throughout continental tropical America, from southern Mexico (Yucatan Peninsula) to Paraguay, except Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, and the high Andes. The vast majority of species of Talisia are found in moist, non-flooded forest, either in the understory or part of the canopy layer. Talisia contains a few, widely dispersed species complexes, exhibiting considerable foliar variation. The remaining species are relatively vegetatively uniform with restricted distributions. The following new taxa are described and illustrated in this monograph: Melicoccus antioquensis, Melicoccus aymardii, Melicoccus espiritosantensis, Melicoccus novogranatensis, Melicoccus petiolulatus Talisia clathrata subsp. canescens, Talisia croatii, Talisia douradensis, Talisia equatoriensis, Talisia ghilleana, Talisia granulosa, Talisia hexaphylla subsp. elegans, Talisia hexaphylla subsp. multinervis, Talisia lanata, Talisia morii, Talisia parviflora, and Talisia velutina. /// La tribu Melicocceae esta caracterizada por la presencia de vulos solitarios, bsales apotrpicos; hojas pinnaticompuestas con una hojuela terminal rudimentaria; flores actinomorfas; semillas no ariladas, a veces con presencia de sarcotesta; y frutos indehiscentes, no lobados. Los gneros americanos de la Melicocceae (Melicoccus y Talisia), se distinguen adems por la presencia de sarcotestas. Melicoccus se caracteriza por tener hbito arbreo; hojas paripinnadas con uno, dos o tres pares de hojuelas y una hojuela distal rudimentaria; racimos, panculas o tirsos; flores actinomorfas, 4(5)-meras, gineceo bi o tricarpelar con septas completas o con menos frecuencia incompletas; frutos carnosos con mesocarpo coriceo; semillas con sarcotesta; embrin lomatorrizo, con cotiledones erectos y radcula punctiforme. Melicoccus se encuentra distribuido naturalmente desde el sur de Mxico (pennsula de Yucatn) hacia Sur Amrica a lo largo de la periferia de la regin amaznica hasta Argentina, Bolivia y Paraguay y por una especies disjuncta en la RepRepblica Dominicana. La mayora de las especies de Melicoccus se encuentran en bosques secos formando parte del dosel del bosque. Melicoccus bijugatus y M. oliviformis estn distribuidas a travs de los trpicos por medio de cultivo mientras que las otras especies tienen en su mayora distribuciones naturales, restringidas. Melicoccus jimenezii de la Repblica Dominicana es una especie endmica amenazada. El gnero Talisia se caracteriza por el hbito arbreo o arbustivo; hojas pinnaticompuestas con una hojuela distal rudimentaria; tirsos paniculiformes o racemiformes con flores arregladas en dicasios laterales o con menos frecuencia panculas; flores actinomorfas, 5-meras; gineceos tricarpelares, con septas completas; frutos carnosos conteniendo una semilla con sarcotesta, embrin notorrizo o lomatorrizo. Talisia est distribuida a travs de Amrica continental tropical desde el sur de Mxico hasta Paraguay, con excepcin de Argentina, Chile Uruguay, y la zona alta de los Andes. La gran mayora de las especies de Talisia se encuentran en bosques hmedos no inundables, ya sea en el sotobosque o formando parte del dosel de los bosques. Talisia contiene algunos complejos de especies ampliamente distribuidos y con gran variacin en los caracteres foliares. Las especies restantes son relativamente uniformes y tienen distribuciones bastantes restringidas. Los siguientes taxones nuevos son descritos en est obra: Melicoccus antioquensis, Melicoccus. aymardii, Melicoccus espiritosantensis, Melicoccus novogranatensis, Melicoccus petiolulatus, Talisia clathrata subsp. canescens, Talisia croatii, Talisia douradensis, Talisia equatoriensis, Talisia ghilleana, Talisia granulosa, Talisia hexaphylla subsp. elegans, Talisia hexaphylla subsp. multinervis, Talisia lanata, Talisia morii, Talisia parviflora, y Talisia velutina. 
4393941|Based on morphological and molecular data, Siparunaceae comprise the neotropical Siparuna and the West African Glossocalyx. This monograph treats both genera and discusses the family's vegetative and reproductive morphology and anatomy, embryology, palynology, chemistry, ethnobotany, and ecology as well as its relationships with other families of Laurales. The 240 names published in Siparuna are typified and 53 species are recognized, including two new species described here. Seven insufficiently known species that are suspected to be new are discussed briefly. Three species and two varieties have been published in Glossocalyx, but only one species is recognized here. All species are illustrated and most of the ca. 8200 collections examined are mapped. Siparuna and Glossocalyx share several characters unique among Laurales. These include unitegmic ovules, bisporangiate glandless stamens that open by a single apically hinged flap, ancestrally unisexual flowers, floral cups (receptacles) covered by a floral roof, and drupelets consistently enclosed in the receptacle during their entire development. Siparuna ranges from southern Mexico to northern Paraguay, and from the Pacific to southeastern Brazil, with a single species in the southern Lesser Antilles. Most species are dioecious, but the phylogenetically basal species are monoecious. Dioecy appears to have evolved twice within the genus. At anthesis, the styles and stamen tips emerge from a central hole in the floral roof, and pollen is transferred between flowers by gall midges (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) that lay their eggs into the flowers. The basal species are trees that occur in lowland Amazonia, while the more derived species are shrubs, straggling shrubs, or treelets occurring in the Andes. Most Siparunaceae have ethnobotanical uses, and recent chemical and pharmaceutical studies are following up indigenous medical applications. /// Segn datos morfolgicos y moleculares, Siparunaceae comprende el gnero neotropical Siparuna y el gnero Glossocalyx de frica occidental. Esta monografa trata ambos gneros y discute la anatoma de la madera, la morfologa floral y la anatoma, la embriologa, la palinologa, la qumica, la etnobotnica y la ecologa de la familia, as como, sus relaciones con otras familias de Laurales. Se han tipificado los 240 nombres publicados en Siparuna y se reconocen 53 especies, incluyendo dos especies nuevas aqu descritas. Dems se discuten brevemente siete especies posiblemente nuevas pero poco conocidas. En Glossocalyx se han publicado trez especies y dos variedades, pero aqu slo se reconoce una especie. Se ilustran todas las especies y se presentan mapas de distribucin de la mayora de las casi 8200 colecciones examinadas. Siparuna y Glossocalyx comparten varios caracteres nicos entre Laurales. Entre estos se incluyen los vulos unitgmicos, los estambres bisporangiados y sin glndulas que se abren por una tapa solitaria, las flores ancestralmente unisexuales, las cpulas florales (receptculos) cubiertas por un techo floral y las drupolas encerradas consistentemente en el receptculo durante todo su desarrollo. Siparuna se distribuye desde el sur de Mxico hasta el norte de Paraguay y desde el Pacfico hasta el sureste de Brasil, con una sola especie en las Antillas Menores del sur. La mayora de las especies son dioicas, pero las especies filogenticamente basales son monoicas. La dioecia parece haber evolucionados dos veces en el gnero. Durante al antesis, los estilos y las puntas de los estambres surgen de un agujero central en el techo floral y es polen se transfiere entre las flores por medio de agallas (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) que ponen huevos en las flores. Las especies basales son rboles y se encuentran en las tierras bajas de la Amazona, mientras que las especies ms derivadas son arbustos, arbustos desparramados o arbolitos que se encuentran en los Andes. La mayora de Siparunaceae tiene usos etnobotnicos y estudios qumicos y farmacuticos recientes estn siguiendo las aplicaciones mdicas indgenas.
4393804| The genus Hedyosmum (Chloranthaceae) is comprised of 40 species of predominantly montane, neotropical shrubs and trees. A comprehensive monograph is provided that includes four newly described species, H. neblinae, H. peruvianum, H. pungens, H. purpurascens. This study reexamines previous treatments of the genus and presents new data on the anatomy, morphology, ecology, and geography of Hedyosmum. Synopses of the taxonomic history, palynology, cytology, and uses are also provided. Anatomical studies focused on floral vascularization, and leaf anatomy, in particular, the type and interspecific distribution of sclerenchyma. Leaf clearings reveal three kinds of sclereids and two kinds of sclerenchymatous sheaths in Hedyosmum; these data are taxonomically useful at the level of species groups. Clearings of pistillate inflorescences suggest certain trends in inflorescence evolution including clustering and/or loss of flowers, fusion of bracts, and shortening of the inflorescence axis. Hedyosmum ranges from central Mexico through Central America to central Bolivia, east to Guyana, and the West Indies. Hedyosmum brasiliense occurs in Paraguay and central to southeastern Brazil and H. orientale is disjunct in southeast Asia. The center of diversity of Hedyosmum is the northern Andes where over 50% of all species are found. Relationships between species groups were examined using phylogenetic methods and a revised infrageneric classification is proposed. Five sections in two subgenera are recognized. Subgen. Hedyosmum is comprised of two sections, sect. Hedyosmum with two species from the West Indies and Central America and sect. Orientale with three species from the West Indies and one species from Southeast Asia. Subgen. Tafalla is composed of three sections. Sect. Microcarpa is the largest and most widely distributed group with 24 species in Central and South America and the West Indies. The nine species of sect. Macrocarpa are exclusively high Andean. Hedyosmum mexicanum of Central America is the sole member of sect. Artocarpoides. In the taxonomic treatment, keys based in large part on reproductive morphology are provided for the sections and for the species within each section. A key to all species based on sterile material is also furnished. Synonymy, descriptions, distribution, habitat, common names, economic uses, and herbarium specimens are given for each species. /// El gnero Hedyosmum (Chloranthaceae) comprende 40 especies de rboles o arbustos predominantemente montanos y neotropicales. Se provee una monografa que incluye cuatro especies recientemente descritas, H. neblinae, H. peruvianum, H. pungens, H. purpurascens. Este estudio reexamina anteriores tratados del gnero y presenta nuevos datos sobre la anatoma, morfologa, ecologia y geografa de Hedyosmum. Tambin se proporciona una sinopsis de la historia taxonmica, palinologa, citologa y usos del gnero. Se incluyen estudios anatmicos enfocados hacia la vascularizacin floral y anatoma de las hojas, particularmente el tipo de esclernquima y su distribucin interespecfica. Diafanizacin en las hojas de Hedyosmum revelan 3 tipos de esclereidas y 2 clases de vainas esclerenquimticas; estos datos son taxonmicamente tiles a nivel de grupos de especies. Diafanizacin en las inflorescencias pistiladas sugieren ciertas tendencias en la evolucin de las inflorescencias, stas incluyen agrupamiento y/o prdida de las flores, fusin de las brcteas y acortamiento del eje de la inflorescencia. Hedyosmum se distribuye de la parte central de Mexico, continuando a travs de Centro Amrica hasta la parte central de Bolivia, este de Guyana y Las Antillas. Hedyosmum brasiliense ocurre en Paraguay y desde el centro hasta el sureste de Brasil y H. orientale es disyunto en Asia del sureste. El centro de diversificacin de Hedyosmum es el norte de los Andes, donde se encuentran mas del 50% de las especies. Las relaciones entre los grupos de especies fueron examinadas usando mtodos filogenticos y se propone una clasificacin infragenrica revisada. Se reconocen cinco secciones en dos subgneros. El subgnero Hedyosmum comprende dos secciones. Seccin Hedyosmum con dos especies en Las Antillas y Centro Amrica y seccin Orientale con tres especies en Las Antillas y una en el sureste de Asia. El subgnero Tafalla comprende tres secciones. Seccin Microcarpa, la mas grande y ampliamente distribuida, con 24 especies en Centro y Sur Amrica y Las Antillas. Las nueve especies de la seccin Macrocarpa son exclusivamente de las zonas elevadas de los Andes. Hedyosmum mexicanum de Centro Amrica es la nica especie de la seccin Artocarpoides. En el tratamiento taxonmico, se proveen claves basadas mayormente en la morfologa reproductiva, tanto para las secciones como para las especies en cada seccin. Tambin se proporciona una clave para todas las especies, basada en material estril. Sinnimos, descripcin, distribucin, habitat, nombres comunes, importancia econmica y colecciones estudiadas se incluyen para cada una de las especies. 
25800079|The Combretaceae are a medium-sized family of about 500 species found throughout the tropical regions of the world, extending into the subtropics in all continents. The number of genera recognized varies from about 12 to 23; 14 are accepted here, five of them in the New World. They are mostly trees or lianas of forest, or small trees or shrubs of savanna, with a few mangroves or mangrove-associates. The two largest genera are Combretum (ca. 255 species, 29 in the Americas), with its center of diversity in Africa, and Terminalia (ca. 190 species, 34 in the Americas), with its center of diversity in Asia. Buchenavia (20 species) is endemic to the New World. The other two American genera are the mangrove Laguncularia and the mangrove-associate Conocarpus (both with a single species in the Americas). In the New World the family ranges from 3220' N in Bermuda, 2906' N in Florida, 3035' N in Chihuahua, Mexico, and 29 N in Baja California Norte, Mexico, to 3715' S in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The two main centers of diversity are Amazonia and SE Brazil; 17 species occur in continental Central America, 4 in United States and Bahamas, 10 in West Indies, 30 in Amazonia, and 33 in Sub-Amazonian South America (including SE Brazil). In addition two cultivated species have become widely naturalized. The main commercial interest is for timber; two species of Terminalia are important in the international market. The following one new section, one new variety, and five new combinations are published here: Buchenavia parvifolia subsp. rabelloana (Mattos) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; Combretum sectio Quisqualis (L.) Stace, comb. nov.; Combretum gracile var. glandulosum Stace, var. nov.; Terminalia sectio Bucida (L.) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; Terminalia sectio Chicharronia (A. Rich.) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; Terminalia sectio Eichlerianae Alwan & Stace, sect. nov.; Terminalia guaiquinimae var. steyermarkii (Alwan & Stace) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.
4393873| A taxonomic revision of three genera of the Euterpeinae is given, on the basis of study of morphology, leaf anatomy, and pollen morphology. Seven species and four varieties of Euterpe, ten species and eight varieties of Prestoea, and one species of Neonicholsonia are recognized. The following new combinations are made: Euterpe catinga var. catinga, E. catinga var. roraimae, Prestoea acuminata var. acuminata, P. acuminata var. dasystachys, P. acuminata var. montana, P. longepetiolata var. longepetiolata, P. longepetiolata var. cuatrecasasii, P. longepetiolata var. roseospadix, P. pubens var. pubens, and P. pubens var. semispicata. /// Se presenta una revisin taxonmica de tres gneros de Euterpeinae. Este anlisis est basado en el estudio de la morfologa, anatoma y morfologa del polen. Se reconocen siete especies y quatro variedades de Euterpe, diez especies y ocho variedades de Prestoea, y una especie de Neonicholsonia. Se hicieron las seguintes nuevas combinaciones: Euterpe catinga var. catinga, E. catinga var. roraimae, Prestoea acuminata var. acuminata, P. acuminata var. dasystachys, P. acuminata var. montana, P. longepetiolata var. longepetiolata, P. longepetiolata var. cuatrecasasii, P. longepetiolata var. roseospadix, P. pubens var. pubens, y P. pubens var. semispicata. 
4393807|The Krameriaceae is a family consisting of one genus, Krameria, with 17 species. Most species occur in the neotropics, but one species is restricted to temperate North America and one to temperate South America. All species occur primarily in dry to seasonally dry, open habitats. The species are shrubs (10), subshrubs (2), or herbs (5), with usually strigose, sericeous, or villous branches, alternate simple or trifoliolate leaves, zygomorphic flowers borne singly, or in terminal racemes or panicles. The sepals are usually showy, and pink, purple, or rose in color. The fruits are usually more or less globose, with one seed, and possess spines, usually retrorsely barbed. Krameria is noteworthy for the fact that all species probably are hemiparasites, with their roots forming haustoria upon a variety of (mostly woody) hosts. The reproductive biology of all the species seems to involve an obligate relationship with oil-collecting centridine bees. The family has at various times been allied phylogenetically with the Leguminosae-Caesalpinioideae or the Polygalaceae, because of its zygomorphic flowers and poricidal anthers. Recent morphological, palynological, and chemotaxonomic (especially serological) work argues strongly for the polygalaceous affinity, however. Krameria species have few uses today, but K. lappacea (rhatany) appeared in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia until 1905. The active principles are tannins, with astrigent properties, and have been used in dentifrices and mouthwashes. A dye, rhatany red, has been used to dye basketry and color port wine.
4393902| The tropical family Opiliaceae of the Santalales comprises 10 genera with 33 species of root parasites. A monograph of the single neotropical genus Agonandra is presented here, including chapters on taxonomic history, morphology, leaf and wood anatomy (P. van Rijckevorsel, Utrecht), pollen morphology (D. Lobreau-Callen, CNRS and EPHE, Paris), chemistry, seed oils (K. Aitzetmller, BAGKF, Mnster), cytology, ecology, and distribution. The 10 species of Agonandra are distributed from Mexico through Central America and the lower elevation areas of South America to northern Argentina. A key is provided for the known species, and synonymy, descriptions, distribution maps, illustrations, local names, uses, and herbarium voucher specimens are given for each species. /// La familia tropical Opiliaceae de los Santalales comprende 10 gneros con 33 especies de parsitas de la races. Aqu se presenta una monografa del gnero neotropical Agonandra que incluye captulos historia taxonmica, morfologa, anatoma de la hoja y la madera (P. van Rijckevorsel, Utrecht), morfologa del polen (D. Lobreau-Callen, CNRS y EPHE, Paris), qumica, aceites de las semillas (K. Aitzetmller, BAGKF, Mnster), citologa, ecologa y distribucin. Las 10 especies de Agonandra se distribuyen desde Mxico, Amrica Central y las partes bajas de Sur Amrica hasta el norte de Argentina. Se presenta una clave para las especies conocidas, sinonimia, descripciones, mapas de distribucin, ilustraciones, nombres comunes, usos y se citan ejemplares de herbario para cada especie. 
4393938| Cecropia, with 61 species presently recognized, is the largest genus of the Cecropiaceae. It is a genus of pioneer trees in the more or less humid parts of the Neotropics. The majority of the species are myrmecophytic. The genus is characterized by some unusual traits: spathes fully enclosing the flower-bearing parts of the inflorescences until anthesis, patches of dense indumentum (trichilia) producing Mllerian (food) bodies at the base of the petiole, and anthers becoming detached at anthesis. The ecological role of the genus and its association with ants have been the subject of numerous studies, most of them cited in the present monograph. Although the taxonomy has been sorted out reasonably well, the coverage by collections and field notes are still insufficient in many cases to fully understand morphological and ecological variation and plasticity in relation to taxonomic delimitations, and in several cases, to prepare complete descriptions. The introductory chapter deals with taxonomic history, morphology, ecology, plant-animal relations, pollination, dispersal, distribution, classification, diversification, use, vernacular names, and conservation. Myrmecophily in Cecropia is treated in a separate chapter (by Davidson). In the present contribution, the new combination Cecropia schreberiana Miquel subsp. antillarum (Snethlage) C. C. Berg & P. Franco is made and numerous lectotypes or neotypes are designated as follows. Neotypes for: Ceocropia concolor Willdenow, C. herthae Diels, C. hololeuca Miquel, C. insignis Liebmann, C. litoralis Snethlage, C. maxima Snethlage, C. palmata Willdenow, C. pastasana Diels, and C. velutinella Diels. Lectotypes for: Cecropia acutifolia Trcul, C. adenopus Miquel, C. amphichlora Standley & L. O. Williams, C. angulata I. W. Bailey, C. cyrtostachya Miquel, C. ferreyrae Cuatreccasas, C. ficifolia Snethlage, C. glaziovii Snethlage, C. inchuensis Cuatrecasas, C. megastachya Cuatrecasas, C. pachystachya Trcul, C. palmatisecta Cuatrecasas, C. porvenirensis Cuatrecasas, C. saxatilis Snethlage, C. scabra Martius, C. strigilosa Cuatrecasas, C. strigosa Trcul, and C. ulei Snethlage. /// Cecropia con 61 especies reconocidas en la actualidad, es el gnero mas diversificado de la familia Cecropiaceae. Sus especies son rboles pioneros en localidades hmedas y muy hmedas del Neotrpico. La mayora de las especies son mimercfilas y se caracterizan por rasgos extraordinarios: espatas que envuelven completamente las partes de la inflorescencia hasta la anthesis, parches de indumento denso (trichilia) que producen los cuerpos de Mller en la base del peciolo, los cuales sirven como fuente de alimento a las hormigas, y anteras que se separan en la antesis. El papel ecolgico del gnero y la asociacin con las hormigas han sido fuente de nuemerosos estudios, la mayora de los cuales se resean en la presente monografa. Aunque la taxonoma est razonablemente bien clarificada, el cubrimento geogrfico de las colecciones y las observaciones de campo son insuficientes en numerosos casos para comprender las variaciones morfolgicas y ecolgicas y la plasticidad, y en otros casos para preparar decripciones completas. El captulo inicial se relaciona con la historia taxonmica, la morfologia, la relacin planta-animal, la polinizacin, dispersion, distribucin, clasificacin, diversificacin, usos, nombres comunes y conservacin. Cecropia y sus hormigas son tratadas en un captulo aparte. En esta contribucin igualmente se propone la nueva combinacin Cecropia schreberiana Miquel subsp. antillarum (Snethlage) C. C. Berg & P. Franco y se designan numerosos lectotipos y neotipos. /// Cecropia, com 61 espcies atualemente reconhecidas,  o maior gnero das Cecropiaceae. Apresenta vores pioneiras nas partes midas ou semi-hmidas da regio Neotropical. A maioria das espcies  mirmecfita. O gnero apresenta algumas caractersticas mpares: espatas cobrindo integralmente as partes florais das inflorescncias at a antese, partes com denso indumento (triqulios) produtores dos corpsculos de Mller (alimentos) na base do pecolo, e anteras tornando-se destacadas na antese. O papel ecolgico do gnero e a associao com a formigas j foram assunto para numerosas pesquisas, muitas das quais referidas na presente monografia. Embora a taxonomia seja razoavelmente conhecida, os dados existentes nas colees e notas de campo so ainda insuficientes em muitos casos para serem esclarecidas a morfologia, variaes ecolgicas e plasticidade com respeito s delimitaes taxonomicas, e em vrios casos, na preparao de descries completas. O captulo introdutrio aborda o histrico taxonmico, morfologia, ecologia, relao planta-animal, polinizao, disperso, distribuio, classificao, diversificao, usos, nomes populares e conservao. A mirmecofilia em Cecropia  tratada num captulo  parte. Na presente contribuio consta a nova combinao Cecropia schreberiana Miquel subsp. antillarum (Snethlage) C. C. Berg & P. Franco assim o designados numerosos lecttipos e netipos. 
4393825| A taxonomic monograph is presented for the neotropical species of the lichen genus Phyllopsora Mll. Arg. (Bacidiaceae). The genus is distinguished by a combination of characters: a squamulose to subfoliose thallus with an obvious prothallus; an ascal type with an amyloid hemispheric dome and narrow, conical masse axiale; an apothecial type composed of highly gelatinized hyphae with no clear distinction between the exciple and the hypothecium and with the same texture found in the center and margin of the apothecium as well as in the paraphyses; and by small, thin-walled, rarely septate ascospores. The relationship of Phyllopsora with the genera Bacidia, Bacidiopsora, Biatora, Eschatogonia, Physcidia, and Squamacidia is discussed. Type specimens have been studied for nearly all names included in Phyllopsora. Eighteen species and eleven varieties are recognized in the neotropics, including one species (P. kalbii) and one variety (P. corallina var. rappiana) described as new. The species concept in Phyllopsora is reassessed. Most species were found to exhibit great morphological variation. New chemical data are given for a number of species, and chemical strains are recognized for P. buettner and P. corallina and their varieties. Eight of the eighteen species have a pantropical distribution and most of the remaining species are widely distributed in the New World. /// Se presenta una monografia taxonmica de las especies neotropicales del gnero de lquenes Phyllospora Mll. Arg. (Bacidiaceae). El gnero se distingue por una combinacin de caracteres: un talo escuamuloso con un protalo evidente; un tipo de ascus con un domo hemisfrico amiloide y un "masse axiale" angosto y cnico; un tipo de apotecio compuesto de hifas altamente gelatinizadas sin una distincin clara entre el paratecio y el hipotecio y con la misma textura hallada en el centro y margen del apotecio como en las parfisis; y por ascsporas pequeas, de pared delgada, y raras veces septadas. Se discute el parentesco de Phyllopsora con los gneros Bacidia, Bacidiopsora, Biatora, Eschatagonia, Physcidia, y Squamacidia. Especmenes tipo se estudiaron para casi todos los nombres incluidos dentro de Phyllospsora. Dieciocho especies y once variedades son reconocidas en el rea neotropical, incluyendo una especie (P. kalbii) y una variedad nueva (P. corallina var. rappiana). Tambin se re-evalu el concepto de especie en Phyllopsora, encontrndose mucha variacin morfolgica en la mayora de las especies. Se dan nuevos datos qumicos para ciertas especies, y razas qmicas fueron reconocidas en P. buettneri y P. corallina y sus variedades. Ocho de las dieciocho especies tienen una distribucin pantropical, y la mayora de las especies restantes son distribuidas ampliamente en el Nuevo Mundo. 
4393911| The Potamogetonaceae are aquatic herbs with submersed or floating leaves. The family comprises three genera and about 100 species of near-cosmopolitan distribution. Two genera of the family, Potamogeton and Stuckenia, are known from the Neotropics. Potamogeton, a genus of about 95 species, has 17 species known to be from the Neotropics. Stuckenia, a genus of six species, has three species known to be from the Neotropics. Keys, descriptions, illustrations, and documented distribution maps for all species and subspecies are included. /// Las Potamogetonaceae son hierbas acuticas con hojas sumergidas o flotantes. La familia consta de tres gneros y unas 100 especies de distribucin casi cosmopolita. Los dos gneros, Potamogeton y Stuckenia, son conocidos de Amrica tropical. El gnero Potamogeton consta de unas 95 especies, con 17 especies en Amrica tropical, y el gnero Stuckenia consta de seis especies, con tres especies en Amrica tropical. Se presentan claves, descripciones, ilustraciones y mapas de distribucin para todos los taxa. 
4393932| A revision of the genus Rhodostemonodaphne is presented. The genus comprises 41 species of dioecious Lauraceae with stamens bearing four locelli situated in a shallow arch towards the apex of the anthers. A taxonomic history of the genus is given. The variation in vegetative and reproductive morphology is discussed. A brief discussion on the distribution of the species is offered. The systematic position of the genus is discussed, and a subdivision into informal species groups is suggested. The variation of characters used in the segregation of the species comprising the R. grandis complex is presented in detail. The species concept used in the delimitation of species in this treatment is provided and contrasted with species concepts currently used by other workers in the Lauraceae. Generic and species descriptions are provided, with a list of exsiccatae, species illustrations, and distribution maps. Sixteen new species are described and four new combinations are proposed. /// Se presenta una revisin del gnero Rhodostemonodaphne. El gnero comprende 41 especies de Lauraceae dioicas con los estambres presentando cuatro locelos situados en un arco suave hacia el pice de las anteras. Se resea la historia taxonmica del gnero. Se discute la variacin observada en la morfologa vegetativa y reproductiva. Se ofrece una corta discusin acerca de la distribucin de las especies. Se discute la posicin taxonmica del gnero y se sugiere una subdivisin en grupos de especies informales. Se presenta en detalle la variacin de los caracteres usados en la segregacin de las especies comprendidas en el complejo R. grandis. Se provee el concepto de especies utilizado en la delimitacin de las especies en este tratamiento, y es contrastado con conceptos de especie usados en la actualidad por trabajadores de las Lauraceae. Se proveen la descripcin del gnero y de las especies, con una lista de exsicados, ilustraciones de las especies y mapas de distribucin. Diez y seis nuevas especies son descritas y cuatro nuevas combinaciones son propuestas en este trabajo. 
4393950| Tococa is a Neotropical genus of woody shrubs, small trees, and climbing or creeping vines. It is distributed from southern Mexico to Bolivia and in the Antilles only in Trinidad and Tobago. The genus has been the subject of great ecological interest due to the presence of ant domatia at the base of the leaf or the apex of the petiole in about 2/3 of the species. A morphological phylogenetic analysis suggests that Tococa, as defined previous to this monograph, is not monophyletic. Eleven of the 45 species here recognized are included as insertae sedis, because their relationships to the remaining species of Tococa are not clearly understood. Tococa is defined to contain the genera Hormocalyx, Myrmidone, Sphaerogyne, and Truncaria. Tococa sensu stricto can be distinguished from other taxa in the Miconieae by the presence of petals with an emarginate border, a truncate ovary, and straight anticlinal walls in the cells of the seed testa. Additionally, two other characters are alternatively optimized onto the base of the Tococa sensu stricto node in the cladistic analysis: absence of sculpturing on the testa and presence of a blunt or reduced calyx. The minute dorsal-basal tooth of the anther connective that has been considered in the past as diagnostic for Tococa is not a synapomorphy for the genus. This character, although present in most species of Tococa sensu stricto, is variable in two species and absent in the others. Tococa bolivarensis subsp. occidentalis is segregated from T. bolivarensis subsp. bolivarensis, elevated to species status, and renamed Tococa raggiana Michelangeli (nom. nov. et stat. nov.) /// Tococa es un gnero Neotropical de arbustos, pequeos rboles, rastreras, y trepadoras. Est distribuido desde el sur de Mxico hasta Bolivia y Brasil y en Las Antillas nicamente en Trinidad y Tobago. El gnero ha sido objeto de gran inters en estudios ecolgicos debido a la presencia de mirmecodomacios en la base de la lmina o el pice del pecolo en cerca de 2/3 de las especies. Un anlisis filogentico basado en caracteres morfolgicos sugiere que el gnero Tococa, como previamente circunscrito, no es monofiltico. Once de las 45 especies aqu reconocidas, son incluidas como insertae sedis, ya que las relaciones filogenticas entre estas especies y el resto de las especies de Tococa no estn bien definidas. El gnero Tococa circunscrito de la manera expresada en esta monografia incluye los gneros Hormocalyx, Myrmidone, Sphaerogyne, y Truncaria. Tococa sensu stricto puede distinguirse de otras especies dentro de la tribu Miconiaeae por la presencia de ptalos emarginados, pice del ovario truncado, y celulas en la testa de las semillas con el borde anticlinal rectilneo. Adicionalmente, otros dos caracteres se encuentran en Tococa sensu stricto: testa de las semillas sin esculturaciones secundarias y la reduccin del cliz en la mayora de las especies. El apndice dorsal-basal en el conectivo de las anteras que ha sido considerado en el pasado como el carcter diagnstico del gnero no constituye una sinamopomorfa para el gnero. Este carcter, aunque presente en la mayora de las especies, es variable en dos especies y se encuentra ausente en otras tres. Tococa bolivarensis subsp. occidentalis es segregada de T. bolivarensis subsp. bolivarensis y renombrada Tococa raggiana Michelangeli (nom. nov. et stat. nov.) 
4393923| The present monograph treats the moss family Amblystegiaceae in the neotropical area. The family is most widespread in temperate areas and is chiefly distributed at higher altitudes in the tropical and subtropical zones. Because of this, its diversity in the Neotropics is highest in the Andes, especially in the Colombian-Venezuelan area, the Mexican and Guatemalan highlands, and on Hispaniola. Representatives of 20 genera are known from the area, including a total of 42 species. One species, Amblystegium pseudosubtile Hedens, is described as new. This species, which is known only from Hispaniola, is the only Amblystegiaceae species with a rough seta; and additionally it differs from the similar A. subtile (Hedw.) Schimp. in having more strongly denticulate leaf margins, less-developed costa of the inner perichaetial leaves, a longer rostrate operculum, a widened exostome margin, and larger spores. Seven Amblystegiaceae species are endemic to the neotropical area, and nine of those occurring in the neotropical area are endemic to S and C America. Most of the members of the family occur in at least temporarily more or less wet or humid habitats, although exceptions occur, for example in Anacamptodon and Campylophyllum. /// El presente monografa trata de la familia de musgos Amblystegiaceae en el rea Neotrpico. La distribucin de esta familia es muy extendido en los reas templadas. En los trpicos y subtrpicos la distribucin es ante todo en los reas altos. Por eso la biodiversidad ms alta en los Neotrpicos son en los Andes, sobre todo en el rea Colombiana-Venozulana, el rea montaosa en Mxico y Guatemala y en la isla de Hispaniola. Hay representativos de 20 gneros en este rea, incluyendo 42 especies. Une especie, Amblystegium pseudosubtile Hedens, esta descrito como nuevo aqui. Este especie, que solamente esta conocido de la Hispaniola, es el nico representativo de Amblystegiaceae que tiene una seta ruda y adems esta distinguido del especie similar A. subtile (Hedw.) Schimp. en sus marcados dientes en el margen de las hojas, el menos desarollado costa en las hojas periqueciales interiores, un operculum ms elongato y rostrato, un margen del exostoma ms enganchado, y por tener esporos ms grandes. Siete Amblystegiaceae especies son endmicos del rea Neotrpico y nueve de los especies que existen en el rea Neotrpico son endmicos del America del Sur y del America del Medio. La mayora de los miembros de la familia crecen en un bitopo ms o menos hmedo, pero hay excepcines, como dentro los gneros Anacamptodon y Campylophyllum. 
25660968|Lcking, R. (Department of Botany, The Field Museum, 1400 South Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60605-2496, USA, rlucking@fieldmuseum.org). Foliicolous lichenized fungi. Flora Neotropica Monograph 103: 1867. 2008.Foliicolous lichenized fungi, or foliicolous lichens, inhabit the surfaces of living leaves of vascular plants, mostly the upper surface (epiphyllous), but occasionally also the lower surface (hypophyllous). They do not form a coherent systematic entity but evolved as ecologically specialized groups within different clades of lichenized and non-lichenized fungi in the Ascomycota and Basidiomycota. Foliicolous lichens constitute an essentially tropical phenomenon, with few taxa occurring in very humid habitats of subtropical and temperate regions. Of the more than 800 foliicolous lichens presently accepted worldwide, 616 species and 15 additional subspecific taxa occur in the Neotropics, from the southern United States and Mexico to northern Chile and Argentina, and in the Valdivian temperate rain forests of southern Chile and Argentina, the areas covered by this monograph. These taxa belong to 74 genera in 23 families and eight orders. Natural keys to orders and families and artificial keys to genera containing foliicolous lichens are provided, as well as keys to all species and subspecific taxa. Each taxon is described and discussed in detail, accompanied by habit photographs and drawings of ascospores and other anatomical details, notes on distribution and ecology, and a list of representative specimens examined. An extensive introductory section summarizes the morphology, anatomy, and chemistry of foliicolous lichens and compiles current knowledge about their evolution, phylogeny, classification, biogeography, and ecology, as well as potential applications and conservation issues. One new family, Lyrommataceae Lcking; four new genera, Baflavia Lcking, Brasilicia Lcking, Kalb & Srus., Eugeniella Lcking & Srus., and Phyllogyalidea Lcking & Aptroot; and one new section, Badimia sect. Pseudogyalecta (Vzda) Lcking & Vzda are described. The following 60 species are established as new: Aderkomyces gomezii Lcking, A. rigidus Lcking & Sipman, Anisomeridium guttuliferum Lcking, A. prolongatum Lcking, Aspidothelium arachnoideum Lcking, A. papillicarpum Lcking, Asterothyrium filiforme Lcking & R. Sant., Bacidina neotropica Lcking, Bapalmuia araracuarensis Sipman & Lcking, B. napoensis Lcking, B. pallescens Lcking, Byssoloma braulii Lcking, B. multipunctatum Lcking, Calenia atlantica Cceres & Lcking, C. chroodisciformis Lcking, C. echinoplacoides Lcking, C. fumosa Lcking, C. obtecta Lcking, C. pernambucensis Cceres & Lcking, C. pseudographidea Lcking, Calopadia aurantiaca Lcking, Calopadiopsis aeruginascens Lcking, Caprettia confusa Lcking & Sipman, Chroodiscus graphideus Lcking & Kalb, Echinoplaca atromuralis Lcking, E. epiphylloides Lcking, E. leucomuralis Lcking, E. wilsoniorum Lcking, Fellhanera flavostanhopeae Lcking, F. punctata Lcking, F. tricharioides Lcking & R. Sant., Gyalideopsis arvidssonii Lcking, G. laevithallina Lcking, G. lobulata Lcking, G. pallescens Lcking, Lyromma confusum Lcking, L. pilosum Lcking, Malcolmiella bacidinoides Lcking, M. fellhaneroides Lcking, Microtheliopsis uniseptata Herrera-Campos & Lcking, Opegrapha fuscothallina Lcking & Matzer, O. serusiauxii Lcking, Phyllobathelium anomalum Lcking, Phylloblastia inconspicua Lcking, Porina albida Lcking, P. barbifera Lcking, P. filispora Lcking, P. haendelii Henssen & Lcking, P. nadkarniae Lcking & Merwin, Psoroglaena epiphylla Lcking, P. laevigata Lcking, Sporopodium marginatum Lcking & Lumbsch, S. subflavescens Lcking & Lumbsch, Strigula minuta Lcking, S. nigrocarpa Lcking, S. radiata Lcking, Tricharia sipmanii Lcking, Trichothelium africanum Lcking, T. montanum Lcking, and T. wirthii Lcking. In addition, 13 subspecific taxa are introduced: Aderkomyces albostrigosus fo. aggregatus Lcking & Vzda, Arthonia cyanea var. cyanea fo. minor Lcking, Bacidina simplex fo. cyanophila Lcking, Dictyonema phyllogenum fo. defectum Lcking, D. phyllogenum fo. nitidum Lcking, Echinoplaca furcata subsp. neotropica Lcking, E. verrucifera fo. calcarea Lcking, Fellhanera verrucifera var. nigrescens Lcking, Gyalideopsis vulgaris fo. albopruinosa Lcking, Porina cubana fo. irregularis Lcking, P. guianensis fo. pentaseptata Lcking, Trichothelium montanum fo. latisporum Lcking, and T. sipmanii Lcking fo. multiseptatum. Furthermore, 35 new combinations are proposed: Aspidothelium macrosporum (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Bacidina arvidssonii (Srus.) Lcking, B. pseudohyphophorifera (Lcking & Srus.) Lcking, Badimia leioplacella (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, B. verrucosa (Vzda) Lcking & Vzda, Baflavia flavescens (Lcking) Lcking, Brasilicia brasiliensis (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Kalb & Srus., Byssoloma sprucei (Bab. ex Nyl.) Lcking & Cceres, Byssoloma subdiscordans var. puertoricensis (Srus.) Lcking, Caprettia ornata (R. Sant. & Vzda) Lcking & Srus., Coenogonium geralense (P. Henn.) Lcking, C. minimum (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, C. pocsii (Vzda & Farkas) Lcking, C. siquirrense (Lcking) Lcking, C. vezdanum (Lcking) Lcking, Eugeniella atrichoides (Malme) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. corallifera (Lcking) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. leucocheila (Tuck.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. micrommata (Kremp.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. newtoniana (Henriques) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. ortizii (Lcking) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. psychotriae (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, Phylloblastia alvari (Herrera-Campos & Lcking) Lcking, P. borhidii (Farkas & Vzda) Lcking, P. dispersa (Vzda) Lcking, P. marattiae (Vzda) Lcking, P. mucronata (McCarthy) Lcking, P. pocsii (Farkas & Vzda) Lcking, P. septemseptata (Vzda) Lcking, P. triseptata (Kalb & Vzda) Lcking, Phyllogyalidea epiphylla (Vzda) Lcking & Aptroot, P. phyllophila (Vzda) Lcking & Aptroot, Psoroglaena biatorella (Arnold) Lcking, Strigula nemathora fo. hypothelia (Nyl.) Lcking, S. vulgaris (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, and Tricharia paraguayensis (Ferraro & Lcking) Lcking. Strigula tremens Mll. Arg. is reintroduced, whereas the following species are considered new taxonomic synonyms: Calopadia schaeferi Vzda [= Calopadia fusca (Mll. Arg.) Vzda], Phyllophiale fusca R. Sant. [= Porina fusca Lcking], Phyllophiale viridis Lcking & Cceres [= Porina pseudoapplanata Lcking & Cceres], Porina aspera Vzda [= P. deremensis F. Schill.], Porina mirabilis Lcking & Vzda [= P. alba (R. Sant.) Lcking], Strigula smaragdula var. stellata (Nyl. & Cromb. ex Ward) Farkas [= S. smaragdula Fr.], S. nemathora var. pulchella (Mll. Arg.) R. Sant. [= S. nemathora Mont.]. In addition, the following older names were found for more recently described species: Badimia leioplacella (Mll. Arg.) Lcking [= Badimia subelegans Sipman & Lcking]; Eugeniella leucocheila (Tuck.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb [= Byssoloma wettsteinii (Zahlbr.) Zahlbr.]; and Porina deremensis F. Schill. [= Porina aspera Vzda]. Lcking, R. (Department of Botany, The Field Museum, 1400 South Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60605-2496, USA). Foliicolous lichenized fungi. Flora Neotropica Monograph 103: 1867. 2008.Hongos liquenizados folicolas, o lquenes folicolas, crecen sobre la superficie de hojas vivas de plantas vasculares, principalmente en el haz (epfilos), pero a veces tambin en el envez (hipfilos). Estos lquenes no forman una entidad sistemtica coherente sino evolucionaron independientemente como grupos ecologicamente especializados dentro de lineas diferentes de hongos liquenizados y no liquenizados de Ascomycota y Basidiomycota. Lquenes folicolas conforman un fenmeno esencialmente tropical, con pocas especies ocurriendo en hbitats muy hmedos de regiones suptropicales y templadas. De los ms de 800 lquenes folicolas actualmente reconocidos en el mundo, 616 especies y 15 taxones subespecficos occurren en el Neotrpico, del sur de Estados Unidos y Mxico hasta el norte de Chile y Argentina, y tambin en los bosques pluviosos templados de la regin de Valdivia en el sur de Chile y Argentina, las cuales son las regiones cubiertas por la presente monografa. Estos taxones pertenecen a 74 gneros en 23 familias y ocho rdenes. Claves naturales ayudan a identificar rdenes y familias, y claves artificiales Ilevan a gneros conteniendo lquenes folicolas, tanto como a especies y taxones subespecficos. Cada especie se describe en detalle, en trminos de su taxonoma, acompaado por fotogrficas de talos y dibujos de ascosporas, notas sobre su distribucin y ecologa, y una lista de especmenes representativos. La introduccin extensiva cubre la morfologa, anatoma y qumica secundaria de lquenes foliicolas, adems de una revisin del conocimiento actual de su evolucin, filogena, clasificacin, biogeografa, ecologa, aplicaciones potenciales y asuntos de conservacin. Se describe una nueva familia, Lyrommataceae Lcking, cuatro nuevos gneros, Baflavia Lcking, Brasilicia Lcking, Kalb & Srus., Eugeniella Lcking & Srus., y Phyllogyalidea Lcking & Aptroot, y una nueva seccin, Badimia sect. Pseudogyalecta (Vzda) Lcking & Vzda, y adems 60 especies nuevas: Aderkomyces gomezii Lcking, A. rigidus Lcking & Sipman, Anisomeridium guttuliferum Lcking, A. prolongatum Lcking, Aspidothelium arachnoideum Lcking, A. papillicarpum Lcking, Asterothyrium filiforme Lcking & R. Sant., Bacidina neotropica Lcking, Bapalmuia araracuarensis Sipman & Lcking, B. napoensis Lcking, B. pallescens Lcking, Byssoloma braulii Lcking, B. multipunctatum Lcking, Calenia atlantica Cceres & Lcking, C. chroodisciformis Lcking, C. echinoplacoides Lcking, C. fumosa Lcking, C. obtecta Lcking, C. pernambucensis Cceres & Lcking, C. pseudographidea Lcking, Calopadia aurantiaca Lcking, Calopadiopsis aeruginascens Lcking, Caprettia confusa Lcking & Sipman, Chroodiscus graphideus Lcking & Kalb, Echinoplaca atromuralis Lcking, E. epiphylloides Lcking, E. leucomuralis Lcking, E. wilsoniorum Lcking, Fellhanera flavostanhopeae Lcking, F. punctata Lcking, F. tricharioides Lcking & R. Sant., Gyalideopsis arvidssonii Lcking, G. laevithallina Lcking, G. lobulata Lcking, G. pallescens Lcking, Lyromma confusum Lcking, L. pilosum Lcking, Malcolmiella bacidinoides Lcking, M. fellhaneroides Lcking, Microtheliopsis uniseptata Herrera-Campos & Lcking, Opegrapha fuscothallina Lcking & Matzer, O. serusiauxii Lcking, Phyllobathelium anomalum Lcking, Phylloblastia inconspicua Lcking, Porina albida Lcking, P. barbifera Lcking, P. filispora Lcking, P. haendelii Henssen & Lcking, P. nadkarniae Lcking & Merwin, Psoroglaena epiphylla Lcking, P. laevigata Lcking, Sporopodium marginatum Lcking & Lumbsch, S. subflavescens Lcking & Lumbsch, Strigula minuta Lcking, S. nigrocarpa Lcking, S. radiata Lcking, Tricharia sipmanii Lcking, Trichothelium africanum Lcking, T. montanum Lcking, y T. wirthii Lcking. Adicionalmente se introduce 13 taxones subespecficos: Aderkomyces albostrigosus fo. aggregatus Lcking & Vzda, Arthonia cyanea var. cyanea fo. minor Lcking, Bacidina simplex fo. cyanophila Lcking, Dictyonema phyllogenum fo. defectum Lcking, D. phyllogenum fo. nitidum Lcking, Echinoplaca furcata subsp. neotropica Lcking, E. verrucifera fo. calcarea Lcking, Fellhanera verrucifera var. nigrescens Lcking, Gyalideopsis vulgaris fo. albopruinosa Lcking, Porina cubana fo. irregularis Lcking, P. guianensis fo. pentaseptata Lcking, Trichothelium montanum fo. latisporum Lcking, y T. sipmanii Lcking fo. multiseptatum. Adems se propone 35 nuevas combinaciones: Aspidothelium macrosporum (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Bacidina arvidssonii (Srus.) Lcking, B. pseudohyphophorifera (Lcking & Srus.) Lcking, Badimia leioplacella (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, B. verrucosa (Vzda) Lcking & Vzda, Baflavia flavescens (Lcking) Lcking, Brasilicia brasiliensis (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Kalb & Srus., Byssoloma sprucei (Bab. ex Nyl.) Lcking & Cceres, Byssoloma subdiscordans var. puertoricensis (Srus.) Lcking, Caprettia ornata (R. Sant. & Vzda) Lcking & Srus., Coenogonium geralense (P. Henn.) Lcking, C. minimum (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, C. pocsii (Vzda & Farkas) Lcking, C. siquirrense (Lcking) Lcking, C. vezdanum (Lcking) Lcking, Eugeniella atrichoides (Malme) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. corallifera (Lcking) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. leucocheila (Tuck.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. micrommata (Kremp.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. newtoniana (Henriques) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. ortizii (Lcking) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. psychotriae (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, Phylloblastia alvari (Herrera-Campos & Lcking) Lcking, P. borhidii (Farkas & Vzda) Lcking, P. dispersa (Vzda) Lcking, P. marattiae (Vzda) Lcking, P. mucronata (McCarthy) Lcking, P. pocsii (Farkas & Vzda) Lcking, P. septemseptata (Vzda) Lcking, P. triseptata (Kalb & Vzda) Lcking, Phyllogyalidea epiphylla (Vzda) Lcking & Aptroot, P. phyllophila (Vzda) Lcking & Aptroot, Psoroglaena biatorella (Arnold) Lcking, Strigula nemathora fo. hypothelia (Nyl.) Lcking, S. vulgaris (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, y Tricharia paraguayensis (Ferraro & Lcking) Lcking. Se reintroduce Strigula tremens Mll. Arg., mientras las siguientes especies son considerados sinnimos taxonmicos nuevos: Calopadia schaeferi Vzda [= Calopadia fusca (Mll. Arg.) Vzda], Phyllophiale fusca R. Sant. [= Porina fusca Lcking], Phyllophiale viridis Lcking & Cceres [= Porina pseudoapplanata Lcking & Cceres], Porina aspera Vzda [= P. deremensis F. Schill.], Porina mirabilis Lcking & Vzda [= P. alba (R. Sant.) Lcking], Strigula complanata var. stellata (Nyl. & Cromb. ex Ward) Farkas [= S. smaragdula Fr.], S. nemathora var. pulchella (Mll. Arg.) R. Sant. [= S. nemathora Mont.]. Adems, los siguientes nombres viejos fueron encontrados para especies ms recientemente descritas: Badimia leioplacella (Mll. Arg.) Lcking [= Badimia subelegans Sipman & Lcking]; Eugeniella leucocheila (Tuck.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb [= Byssoloma wettsteinii (Zahlbr.) Zahlbr.]; y Porina deremensis F. Schill. [= Porina aspera Vzda].
4393953|The genus Piptocarpha (Vernonieae: Compositae) is South American, except for P. tetrantha, which is endemic to Puerto Rico, and P. poeppigiana and P. triflora, which range into Central America and the West Indies, respectively. Piptocarpha is distinguished by the unusual features of sterile anther tails, axillary glomerulate inflorescences, and deciduous inner phyllaries. Other distinguishing characters include stellate trichomes or silvery scales (chiefly on the lower leaf surfaces and branchlets); glabrous, angular, costate achenes; indistinctly biseriate to biseriate, filiform pappus; blunt, short hairs on the style branches; and cream-colored florets with recurved lobes. Nomenclatural, morphological, cytological, and flavonoid studies as well as information from Piptocarpha rust infections were utilized to delimit taxa and to develop an infrageneric classification. Forty-six species comprise the genus and are placed into two subgenera, Piptocarpha and Hypericoides. In subgenus Piptocarpha section Piptocarpha, three new series (Rotundifoliae, Opacae, and Asterotrichiae) are delimited, and in subgenus Hypericoides, one new series (Leprosae) is delimited. Two new species are described: P. gustavo-valerioana and P. subcorymbosa. The following are new combinations: P. axillaris subsp. graciellae, P. oblonga subsp. lepidota, and P. macropoda subsp. crassifolia.
4393890| The neotropical Cladoniaceae (lichen-forming Ascomycota: Lecanorales) comprise 184 known species in four genera, Cladia Nylander, Cladina Nylander, Cladonia Hill ex P. Browne, and Pycnothelia Dufour. Twenty-nine taxa are described as new: Cladia globosa Ahti, Cladina arbuscula subsp. pachyderma Ahti, C. atrans Ahti, C. kalbii Ahti, C. kriegeri Ahti & S. Stenroos, Cladonia chimantae Ahti, C. cinerella Ahti, C. crustacea Ahti, C. curta Ahti & Marcelli, C. cyanescens Ahti, C. farinophylla Ahti, C. glabra Ahti, C. hians Ahti, C. huberi Ahti, C. itatiaiae Ahti & Marcelli, C. latiloba Ahti & Marcelli, C. lingulata Ahti, C. marcellii Ahti & S. Stenroos, C. megaphylla Ahti & Marcelli, C. obscurata Ahti, C. obtecta Ahti, C. piedadensis Ahti, C. polystomata Ahti & Sipman, C. prancei Ahti, C. pumila Ahti, C. sipmanii Ahti, C. spathulata Ahti, C. tachirae Ahti, and Cladonia sect. Strepsiles Ahti. New nomenclatural combinations are Cladina arbuscula subsp. boliviana (Ahti) Ahti, C. arbuscula subsp. imshaugii (Ahti) Ahti, Cladonia anaemica (Nylander) Ahti, C. multipartita (Mller Argoviensis) Ahti, C. parvipes (Vainio) S. Stenroos, and C. pulverulenta (L. Scriba) Ahti. Many previously described taxa are reduced to synonymy. Keys are provided for the species. Synonymy, typifications, descriptions, secondary chemistry, distribution maps, habitats, economic uses, and a selection of herbarium voucher specimens are given for each species. Most of the species are restricted to the Neotropics and the greatest species diversity is found in southeast Brazil, the Guayana Shield, the northern Andes, and Hispaniola. /// Las Cladoniaceae (Ascomycota liquenizados: Lecanorales) de Amrica tropical y subtropical (Notropico) estn constituidas hasta el momento por 184 especies, distribuidas en cuatro gneros diferentes: Cladia Nylander, Cladina Nylander, Cladonia Hill ex. P. Browne y Pycnothelia Dufour. Se describen los siguientes 29 nuevos txones: Cladia globosa Ahti, Cladina arbuscula subsp. pachyderma Ahti, C. atrans Ahti, C. kalbii Ahti, C. kriegeri Ahti & S. Stenroos, Cladonia chimantae Ahti, C. cinerella Ahti, C. crustacea Ahti, C. curta Ahti & Marcelli, C. cyanescens Ahti, C. farinophylla Ahti, C. glabra Ahti, C. hians Ahti, C. huberi Ahti, C. itatiaiae Ahti & Marcelli, C. latiloba Ahti & Marcelli, C. lingulata Ahti, C. marcellii Ahti & S. Stenroos, C. megaphylla Ahti & Marcelli, C. obscurata Ahti, C. obtecta Ahti, C. piedadensis Ahti, C. polystomata Ahti & Sipman, C. prancei Ahti, C. pumila Ahti, C. sipmanii Ahti, C. spathulata Ahti, C. tachirae Ahti y Cladonia sect. Strepsiles Ahti. Se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones: Cladina arbuscula subsp. boliviana (Ahti) Ahti, C. arbuscula subsp. imshaugii (Ahti) Ahti, Cladonia anaemica (Nylander) Ahti, C. multipartita (Mller Argoviensis) Ahti, C. parvipes (Vainio) S. Stenroos y C. pulverulenta (L. Scriba) Ahti. Se establecen numerosas sinonimias para algunos txones descritos con anterioridad. Se incluyen claves para las especies y sus sinonimias. Para cada especie se realiza la tipificacin, descripcin, qumica, mapa de distribucin geogrfica y habitat, tambin se indican los herbarios donde estn depositados los pliegos. La mayor parte de las especies son endmicas para la regin neotropical, aunque algunas especies tienen reas de distribucin mas amplias. Destacan el sureste de Brasil, el Escudo de Guayana, el Norte de los Andes y las Antillas por presentar el mayor nmero de endemismos y la mayor diversidad. 
4393813| The present monograph comprises the revisions of two of the three Neotropical genera of the Cecropiaceae: Coussapoa and Pourouma. For Coussapoa 46 species are recognized at present; 15 of them have been described as new during the present study. All or most species are hemi-epiphytes. They have entire leaves and are dioecious. The small simple flowers are borne in uni- to pluricapitate inflorescences. The staminate flowers have one stamen or two or three connate stamens. The fruits are small. The genus ranges from southern Mexico to south-eastern Brazil and is absent in the West Indies. Most species are components of lowland rain forest habitats. Few species are wide-spread, most species have relatively small or even very small (known) ranges of distribution. The species are morphologically clear-cut and most of them rather uniform. For several reasons, e.g., lack of staminate material, the species are (provisionally) arranged in alphabetical sequences. Little is known about the biology of the genus. For Pourouma 25 species are presently recognized. Four taxa have been described as new during the preparation of this revision. All species are terrestrial, usually small to medium-sized trees. They have entire to palmately lobed to parted leaves and are dioecious. The pistillate flowers are pedicellate and are arranged in repeatedly branched to subumbellate inflorescences. The small staminate flowers are pedicellate or sessile and occur  loosely glomerate or in globose heads. The stamens are free in all species but one. The fruits are relatively large. The genus ranges from Central America to south-eastern Brazil and is absent in the West Indies. Most of them occur in  disturbed and/or  open places in lowland rain forest. Besides a number of clear-cut and slightly variable species the genus comprises a number of (very) variable and  complex species: P. bicolor, P. cucura, P. guianensis, P. melinonii, P. mollis, and P. tomentosa. The former three and the latter three species are often difficult to separate from each other (and some other species). These six taxa and some others show a considerable plasticity, especially with regard to the leaf shape, leaf dimension, and composition of the indument, and most prominently so in the Upper Amazon Basin. Little is known about the biology of the genus. P. cecropiifolia is in cultivation as a fruit tree. 
25660964|Costa, D. P. (Instituto de Pesquisas Jardim Botnico do Rio de Janeiro, Rua Pacheco Leo 915, 22460-030, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil). Metzgeriaceae (Hepaticae). Flora Neotropica Monograph 102: 1170. 2008. A famlia Metzgeriaceae (Hepaticae) est representada na Amrica Tropical por um gnero e 57 espcies. As espcies desta famlia so caracterizadas pela largura do talo, nmero de clulas da lmina da costa a margem, nmero de clulas da costa e medula, tamanho das clulas, verrucosidade da cutcula, tipo e disposio dos rizides no talo, gemas e sexualidade. A grande maioria dos txons ocorrem como epfitas nas florestas tropicais midas, entre 5004000 m de altitude. As espcies, em grande parte, esto restritas  Amrica Tropical, sendo a maior diversidade encontrada no Norte dos Andes e Galpagos, seguida pelo Caribe, Andes Central e Sudeste do Brasil. Nas regies secas, poucas espcies so encontradas. Cerca de 13% espcies da famlia esto limitadas s florestas tropicais midas no perturbadas e 39,7% esto includas em cinco categorias da IUCN. Quinze sinnimos so propostos neste estudo: M. arborescens (=M. filicina), M. bialata (=M. filicina), M. boliviana (=M. claviflora), M. ecuadorensis (=M. leptoneura), M. gigantea (=M. claviflora), M. gracilimascula (=M. pulvinata), M. herzogiana (=M. filicina), M. minor var. cyanogutta (=M. conjugata), M. nudicosta (=M. leptoneura), M. quadrifaria (=M. rufula), M. radicans var. peruviana (=M. innovans), M. schiffneri (=M. myriopoda), M. subinvoluta (=M. pulvinata), M. tonsa (=M. ciliata), M. wallisiana (=M. leptoneura). Costa, D. P. (Instituto de Pesquisas Jardim Botnico do Rio de Janeiro, Rua Pacheco Leo 915, 22460-030, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil). Metzgeriaceae (Hepaticae). Flora Neotropica Monograph 102: 1170. 2008. The family Metzgeriaceae (Hepaticae) is represented in tropical America by one genus, Metzgeria, and 57 species. The species of this family are distinguished according to width of thallus, number of laminal cells from midrib to margin, number of dorsal and ventral epidermal cells in the midrib, number of medulla cells, size of laminal cells, verruculosity of the cuticle, types and disposition of hairs in the thallus, gemmae, and sexuality. They are mostly epiphytes in humid, submontane to upper montane tropical forests, between 5004000 m elevation. Most of the species are restricted to tropical America and the highest species diversity is found in the northern Andes, followed by the West Indies, the central Andes, and southeastern Brazil. Few species are found in dry regions. About 13% of the species are limited to undisturbed tropical rainforest and 29.7% are included in one of the five IUCN threat categories. Fifteen new synonyms are proposed: M. arborescens (=M. filicina), M. bialata (=M. filicina), M. boliviana (=M. claviflora), M. ecuadorensis (=M. leptoneura), M. gigantea (=M. claviflora), M. gracilimascula (=M. pulvinata), M. herzogiana (=M. filicina), M. minor var. cyanogutta (=M. conjugata), M. nudicosta (=M. leptoneura), M. quadrifaria (=M. rufula), M. radicans var. peruviana (=M. innovans), M. schiffneri (=M. myriopoda), M. subinvoluta (=M. pulvinata), M. tonsa (=M. ciliata), and M. wallisiana (=M. leptoneura).
4393920| Duguetia, now including Pachypodanthium, is a genus with 93 species, 89 of which occur in the Neotropics, and the remaining four in Africa. Duguetia is the third largest genus of Annonaceae in the Neotropics, after Guatteria (265 species) and Annona (150 species). It is closest to the Amazonian genera Fusaea and Duckeanthus. No new species are proposed in the present monograph, but 25 new species have been published by Maas and co-workers in precursory papers over the last years. Two separate dichotomous keys to the species are provided, one for the Neotropics, and one for Africa, respectively. There is also a synoptical key for the Neotropical species. For each species a description, geographical and ecological notes, a distribution map, an illustration (for most of the species), and a list of herbarium specimens (or a representative selection thereof) are given. Whenever applicable, synonymy, chromosome number, notes on taxonomy and other topics are also provided. Overviews are given of the history, gross morphology, geography and ecology, systematics, economic uses, and conservation status of the genus. A collectors index and a list of vernacular names are appended. New data are presented on anatomy of leaf, wood, and bark, as well as on karyology, palynology, chemistry, and phylogeny. Also, there are new observations from the fields of floral biology and seed dispersal. /// El gnero Duguetia, que ahora incluye a Pachypodanthium, esta formado por 93 especies; de las cuales 89 son neotropicales y cuatro de Africa. Es el tercer gnero ms diverso de Annonaceae en el Neotropico, despus de Guatteria (265 spp.) y Annona (150 spp), y est ms relacionado con los gneros amaznicos Fusaea y Duckeanthus. En esta monografa no se propone ninguna especie nueva, sin embargo, en los ltimos aos Maas et al. han publicado 25 novedades taxonmicas. Se elabor una clave dicotmica y una sinptica para las especies neotropicales y, adems, una clave dicotmica para los taxones africanos. Para cada especie se presenta una descripcin, notas geogrficas y ecolgicas, un mapa de la distribucin, una ilustracin para la mayora de los taxones y una lista de los especimenes de herbario. En algunos casos se presenta la sinonimia, el nmero de cromosomas y notas taxonmicas, entre otros. Para el gnero se presentan aspectos de la historia taxonmica, morfologa, geografa, ecologa, usos econmicos, y estado de conservacin, adems, se muestran nuevos datos de anatoma de la hoja, la madera y la corteza; as como de filogena, cariologa, palinologa, qumica, y observaciones de biologa floral y dispersin de semillas. Un ndice de colectores y una lista de nombres vernculos aparecen al final del tratamiento. /// Duguetia, Duguetia, incluindo agora Pachypodanthium,  um gnero de 93 especies, 89 das quais crescem nos Neotrpicos e s 4 na Africa. Em tamanho  o terceiro gnero das Annonaceae nos Neotrpicos depois de Guatteria (265 espcies) e Annona (150 espcies), e  mais afim aos gneros Amaznicos Fusaea e Duckeanthus. Nesta monografia nenhumo taxon novo  apresentado, desdeque nos ltimos anos 25 espcies novas foram publicadas por Maas e scios em papeis preliminares. Duas chaves dictomas so fornecidas, uma para as espcies Neotropicais, e outra para as 4 espcies Africanas. Tambem uma chave sinptica para as espcies Neotropicais  fornecida. Para cada espcie uma descrio completa, com notas geogrficas e ecolgicas, um mapa de distribuio, uma illustrao (para a grande maioria) e uma lista ou seleo representiva de espcimes de herbria  feita. Quando possivel sinonimia, nmero cromosmico e notcias taxonmicas so dadas. Sumrios da histria do gnero, sua morfologia geral, distribuio, ecologia, posio sistemtica, usos econmicos e estado de conservao so ofericidas. Dados novos so apresentados sbre anatomia de folhas, madeira e casca, como tambem nas reas de cariologia, palinologia, qumica e filogenia. Novas observaes sbre biologia floral e disperso de sementes so relatadas. Um index de coletores e uma lista de nomes vernaculares concluem a obra. 
4393896| The family Vitaceae is represented in the Neotropics by four genera, three treated here and Vitis which is a taxon principally from temperate North America, and has few species in Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean, and Northwestern South America. The genus Ampelocissus is chiefly Asiatic and African but is represented in Central America and the Caribbean by four species. Ampelopsis is mainly Asiatic but has two species in temperate North America and only one occurring in Mexico. Cissus is the largest genus in the family and is pantropical with ca. 350 species. In the Neotropics 75 species were found that grow from South Florida to Chile and Argentinean Patagonia. The genus showed the largest diversity centers in Mexico and Central America, with eight endemic species, in the Caribbean, with five microendemics, and mainly in South America, with 48 endemic species. Three new species are described for Cissus, and five lectotypes are designated. /// A famlia Vitaceae  representada na regio neotropical por quatro gneros, trs aqui tratados e Vitis, que  um taxon principalmente temperado norte americano, com poucas espcies no Mxico, Amrica Central, Caribe, e noroeste da Amrica do Sul. O gnero Ampelocissus  na maioria asitico e africano, mas  representado na Amrica Central e Caribe por quatro espcies. Ampelopsis  principalmente asitico com duas espcies na Amrica do Norte temperada e apenas uma ocorrendo no Mxico. Cissus  pantropical e  o maior gnero da famlia, com ca. 350 espcies. Na regio neotropical 75 espcies foram encontradas ocorrendo do sul da Flrida ao Chile e Patagnia Argentina. O gnero mostrou os maiores centros de diversidade no Mxico e Amrica Central, com oito espcies endmicas, no Caribe, com cinco endmicas, e principalmente na Amrica do Sul, com 48 espcies endmicas. Trs espcies novas so descritas para Cissus, e cinco lecttipos so designados. 
4393947| The liverworts or Hepaticae are traditionally subdivided into two subclasses, Jungermanniidae (four to five orders) and Marchantiidae (three orders). This monograph of the neotropical Marchantiidae treats 103 species in two orders: Marchantiales and Monocleales. Marchantiales are represented in the Neotropics by 102 species, in 18 genera, and include 11 families. The majority of the genera have only few species, with 14 genera comprising fewer than 6 species and 3 genera 8-10 species. More than half of the neotropical species of Marchantiales belong to the genus Riccia (53 species). Monocleales are represented in the Neotropics by a single species. The third order of the Marchantiidae, Sphaerocarpales, is not yet known with certainty from the Neotropics but is expected to occur in the region. All species of Marchantiidae are terrestrial or saxicolous, and they often grow in harsh, disturbed biotopes. Many are able to withstand strong illumination and drastic diurnal temperature changes; drought tolerance of gametophytes and spores is common. Gametophytes may be able to resume growth after months of drought, and spores may take advantage of briefly favorable conditions to germinate, producing fast-maturing plants with sporophytes. Twenty-six species have wide transoceanic ranges and occur on several continents. About half of these are widely distributed within the Neotropics; the others, preferring a Mediterranean type of climate, are confined to the northern, or to the northern and the southern borders of the area and are absent from the tropical zone. The remaining species (76) and one genus of Marchantiidae, Cronisia, are restricted to tropical America. Twenty-six of these may qualify as endemics, having very restricted distributions within the Neotropics. The endemics are found in all areas except on the Guyana shield and on the smaller West Indian islands. More than half of the endemic species (18) belong to the genus Riccia. One new endemic species is proposed: Mannia hegewaldii. Highest species diversity is observed in areas with dry seasons, such as dry parts of Mexico and Central America (64 species) and the lowlands of Brazil and Argentina (65 species). Less drought-tolerant species are distributed predominantly in the Andes (47 species). In contrast to leafy liverworts and mosses, species diversity is higher in the lowlands than in the mountains. A total of 83 species are found in the lowland, 56 in the lower montane, 42 in the upper montane, and 15 in the subalpine and alpine belts. The classifications of the Marchantiidae, including the one in current use, are usually based primarily on gametangial characteristics. Two main evolutionary hypotheses were postulated in the past: (1) the progressive specialization hypothesis, postulating the evolution of plants with archegoniophores from plants without them, and (2) the progressive reduction hypothesis, postulating evolution in the opposite direction (development of plants without archegoniophores from those having them). Interestingly, phylogenetic analysis using structural data (morphology, anatomy, development) lends support to the progressive specialization hypothesis, with Monocleales and Sphaerocarpales being sister groups to the monophyletic Marchantiales, but molecular analysis supports the progressive reduction theory. Monocleales and Sphaerocarpales are unequivocally nested within the Marchantiales in the molecular tree. It appears that the traditionally recognized orders and families of the Marchantiidae as well as the delimitation of some of the genera in this group are not supported by molecular data. /// Las hepticas o Hepaticae se subdividen, tradicionalmente, en dos subclases, Jungermanniidae (4-5 rdenes) y la Marchantiidae (3 rdenes). Esta monografa de la Marchantiidae neotropical trata 103 especies en dos rdenes, Marchantiales y Monocleales. Los Marchantiales estn representados en el Neotrpico por 103 especies en 18 gneros, 11 familias y cuatro subrdenes. La mayora de los gneros tienen pocas especies: catorce gneros incluyen menos de 6 especies, tres gneros, 8-10 especies. Ms de la mitad de las especies neotropicales de Marchantiales pertenecen al gnero Riccia (53 especies). Los Monocleales estn representados en el Neotrpico por una sola especie. El tercer orden de la Marchantiidae, Sphaerocarpales, no se conoce con certeza para el Neotrpico pero se puede esperar que est presente en la regin. Todas las especies de Marchantiidae son terrestres o saxcolas y a menudo crecen en biotopos perturbados y difciles. Muchas son capaces de soportar una fuerte iluminacin y cambios diurnos drsticos de temperatura: es comn la tolerancia a la desecacin de los gametofitos y esporas. Sin embargo, ya que la fertilizacin requiere agua, todos los taxa son, al menos temporalmente, higrfitos. Los gametofitos pueden reasumir su crecimiento despus de meses de sequa y las esporas pueden tomar ventaja de condiciones favorables de corto tiempo para germinar, produciendo plantas que maduran rpido con esporofitos. Veintisis especies tienen rangos de distribucin transocenicos extensos, y se presentan en varios continentes. Cerca de la mitad de stas se distribuyen ampliamente en el Neotrpico, las otras, que prefieren un tipo de clima mediterrneo, estn confinadas al borde norte o norte y sur del rea y estn ausentes de la zona tropical. El resto de las especies (76) y un gnero de Marchantiidae, Cronisia, estn restringidas a la Amrica tropical. Veintisis de stas pueden calificar como endmicas con distribuciones muy restringidas en el Neotrpico. Las endmicas se encuentran en todas las reas excepto en el macizo de la Guyana y en las pequeas islas de las Indias Occidentales. Ms de la mitad de las especies endmicas (18) pertenecen al genero Riccia. Se propone una nueva especie endmica: Mannnia hegewaldii. Se observa una alta diversidad de especies en reas con estaciones secas, e.g., partes secas de Amrica Central (64 especies) y las tierras bajas de Brasil y Argentina (65 especies). Las especies menos tolerantes a la desecacin estn distribuidas predominantemente en los Andes (47 especies). En contraste con las hepticas foliosas y los musgos, la diversidad de especies es mayor en las tierras bajas que en las montaas. Ochenta y tres especies se encuentran en las tierras bajas, 56 en zonas montano bajas, 42 en las montano altas y 15 en las fajas subalpina y alpina. Las clasificaciones de la Marchantiidae, incluyendo la de uso actual, usualmente se basan en caractersticas gametangiales. En el pasado, se postularon dos hiptesis evolutivas principales, 1) la hiptesis de la especializacin progresiva, que postula la evolucin de las plantas con arquegoniforos a partir de plantas sin ellos, y 2) la hiptesis de la reduccin progresiva, que postula la evolucin en la direccin opuesta (el desarrollo de plantas sin arquegoniforos a partir de aqullas que los tienen). Es interesante que el anlisis filogentico utilizando datos estructurales (morfologa, anatoma, y desarrollo) apoya la hiptesis de la especializacin progresiva, con los Monocleales y Sphaerocarpales como el grupo hermano de los Marchantiales monofilticos, pero el anlisis molecular apoya la hiptesis de reduccin progresiva. Los Monocleales y Sphaerocarpales estn inequvocamente anidados dentro de los Marchantiales en el rbol molecular. Parece que los rdenes, subrdenes y familias de la Marchantiidae reconocidos tradicionalmente, as como la delimitacin de algunos gneros en este grupo no son apoyados por los datos moleculares. 
4393834| The Calymperaceae (Musci) are acrocarpous mosses, mostly dioicous and with erect stems, predominantly corticolous, and largely restricted to the tropics and subtropics worldwide. The family is characterized by the uniform presence in the clasping leaf bases of cancellinae (fields of enlarged, hyaline, externally and internally porose cells), lack of stem central strand, mostly thickened and toothed leaf margins, peristome single (or lacking), and common production of uniseriate gemmae on the leaves. The Calymperaceae are most closely related to the Pottiaceae, from which they differ in no single character. The traditional family Calymperaceae is represented in the neotropics by 55 specific and subspecific taxa in two genera: Calymperes (16 species) and Syrrhopodon (39 species and taxonomic varieties). Nine species of Calymperes and 30 species and varieties of Syrrhopodon are endemic to the neotropics; the other taxa also occur outside of the neotropics including some that are more or less pantropical and some disjunct in Africa. /// Los Calymperaceae (Musci) son musgos acrocrpicos, su mayora dioicos y con tallos erectos, predominantemente cortcicolas, y en gran parte restrictos a las zonas tropicales y subtropicales del mundo. La familia se caracteriza por la presencia uniforme de cancelinos (grandes clulas hialinas, externa e internamente porosas) en la base ciente de las hojas, ausencia de cordn central en el tallo, margen de hojas principalmente engrosado y dentado, peristoma simple (o ausente) y comn produccin de yemas uniseriadas en las hojas. Los Calymperaceae se parecen ms a los Pottiaceae, de los que no se diferencian en una caracterstica comn. La familia Calymperaceae tradicional est representada en el neotrpico por 55 taxa especficas o subespecficas en dos gneros: Calymperes (16 especies) y Syrrhopodon (39 especies y variedades taxonmicas). Nueve especies de Calymperes y 30 especies y variedades de Syrrhopodon son endmicas del neotrpico; las otras taxa tambin ocurren fuera del neotrpico, incluyendo algunas que son ms o menos pantropicales y algunas dislocadas en Africa. 
4393899| The Buddlejaceae are a small family comprising eight genera and 125 species, approximately half of which inhabit the New World. In this monograph, 67 species of Buddleja, (including 4 adventive Old World taxa), 2 species of Emorya, and the more remotely related monotypic genera, Polypremum and Peltanthera, are treated. The genus Sanango has recently been reclassified in the Gesneriaceae. The four centers of species diversity for New World Buddleja are in SE Brazil (20%), the Andes (50%), Central America (10%), and Mexico and SW U.S. (20%). Many species are shrubs which inhabit xeric or subxeric habitats. The tree species are montane, growing primarily at 2000-4000 m. The introductory section summarizes information on morphology for all the genera and gives a new infrageneric classification of Buddleja. A chapter on chemistry is provided by S. R. Jensen. Two new species of Buddleja are described, B. cardenasii and B. vexans; one new subspecies is described, B. skutchii subsp. costaricensis; and a new combination is made, B. cordata subsp. ovandensis. /// Buddlejaceae son una familia menor de ocho generos y de 125 especies, de cuales aproximadamente la mitad habita el Nuevo Mundo. En este tratado, se encuentran 67 especies de Buddleja, incluyendo 4 especies originarias del Viejo Mundo, 2 especies de Emorya y los gneros monotipcos de ms lejana relacin, Polypremum y Peltanthera. El genero Sanango ha sido re-classificado en las Gesneriaceae. Los cuatro centros de diversidad especifica de los Buddlejas del Nuevo Mundo estn en el sureste de Brazil (20%), los Andes (50%), Mesoamerica (10%), y (20%) en Mxico y el suroeste de los Estados Unidos. Muchos especies son arbustos que habitan areas xericos o subxericos. Los especies arboreas son de montaa, creciendo principalmente en alturas de 2000 a 4000 metros. La introduccin preliminar sumariza la informacion morfolgica de todos los gneros e indica una nueva clasificacin infragenrica de Buddleja. Un captulo sobre la qumica se provee el S. R. Jensen. Esta obra contiene descripciones de dos nuevas especies, B. cardenasii y B. vexans y una nueva subespecie B. skutchii subesp. costaricensis, y una nueva combinacin, B. cordata subesp. ovandensis. 
4393959|The Fissidentaceae (Bryophyta) are acrocarpous mosses of which the majority of species are found in the tropics. These mosses are found at elevations from sea level to 4000m, and in both aquatic and terrestrial habitats. The family, consisting of only the genus Fissidens, is characterized by a stem that after the initial stages grows from a two-sided apical cell, equitant and distichous leaves, a unique leaf structure consisting of a dorsal lamina, a ventral lamina and two vaginant laminae, and a single peristome of 16 teeth. The Fissidentaceae are closely related to the Dicranaceae, from which they are distinguished principally by leaf structure. Fissidens is represented in the Neotropics by 93 species, of which 58 species (62%) are endemic. One new species, F. ecuadorensis, is described. Four new synonyms and 23 new lectotypes are designated. A few temperate species extend into the Neotropics, usually at higher elevations, and a few Neotropical species extend into the temperate regions of North America. A few species are pantropical, while others are found in Europe, Africa, Asia, and Australia. /// Los Fissidentaceae (Bryophyta) son musgos acrocrpicos; su mayora se encuentran en las zonas tropicales. La familia, con el nico gnero Fissidens, se catacteriza por el tallo de crecimiento despues su crecimiento inicial de una cellula apical de dos caras; las hojas equitantes y disticas; la nica estructura foliar de una lamina dorsal, una lamina ventral, y dos laminas vaginados; y un peristoma de 16 dientes. Los Fissidentaceae son estrechamente relacionado a los Dicranaceae, que es distingida principlamente por la estructura foliar. El gnero Fissidens est representada en el neotrpico por unas 93 especies, de cuales 58 especies (62%) son endmicas. Se describe una nueva especies para la ciencia, F. ecuadorensis. Quatros nuevos sinnimos y 23 nievos lectotpos se presentan en esta obra. Pocas especies de las zona templadas ocurren en los neotrpicos, normalmente en las elevaciones altas, y pocas espcies Neotropicales ocurren en las zonas templadas de Amrica del Norte. Algunos otras especies son pantropicales, mientras otras ocurren en Europa, Africa, Asia y Australia.
4393822| The Campylopodioideae and Paraleucobryoideae are closely related subfamilies of the Dicranaceae (Musci). Within the Dicranaceae, both are characterized by a broad costa with a high variation in anatomical structures. The Campylopodioideae in the Neotropics consist of eight genera: Atractylocarpus Williams with three species, Bryohumbertia Portier de la Varde & Thriot with one, Campylopodium (C. Mller) Bescherelle with one, Campylopus Bridel with 65, Dicranodontium Bruch, Schimper & Gmbel with four, Microcampylopus (C. Mller) Fleischer with one, Pilopogon Bridel with six, and Sphaerothecium with one species. The Paraleucobryoideae in the Neotropics consist of three genera: Brothera C. Mller with one species, Campylopodiella Cardot with two, and Paraleucobryum (Limpricht) Loeske with two species. All 87 species, as well as infraspecific taxa are described and illustrated. /// Campylopodioideae y Paraleucobryoideae son subfamilias estrechamente afines a las Dicranaceae (Musci). Dentro de las Dicranaceae ambas subfamilias se caracterizan por una costa ancha con una gran variacin de estructuras anatmicas. Las Campylopodioideae en los Neotrpicos consisten de 8 gneros: Atractylocarpus Williams con 3 especies, Bryohumbertia Portier de la Varde & Thriot con 1 especie, Campylopodium (C. Mller) Bescherelle con 1 especie, Campylopus Bridel con 65 especies, Dicranodontium Bruch, Schimper & Gmbel con 4 especies, Microcampylopus (C. Mller) Fleischer con 1 especie, Pilopogon Bridel con 6 especies y Sphaerothecium con 1 especie. La Paraleucobryoideae en los Neotrpicos consiste de 3 gneros: Brothera C. Mller con 1 especie, Campylopodiella Cardot con 2 especies y Paraleucobryum (Limpricht) Loeske con 2 especies. Todas las 87 especies as como los taxones infraespecficos estn descritos e ilustrados. 
20749542|Only 13 of the 21 or so genera segregated from Stereum s.l. have taxa that occur in the Neotropics: Amylostereum (1 taxon), Aquascypha (2), Chondrostereum (1), Coralloderma (3, 1 comb. nov.), Cotylidia (3), Cystostereum (4, 1 comb. nov.), Cymatoderma (8, 2 comb. nov.), Hydnopolyporus (2, 1 stat. nov.), Inflatostereum (1), Lopharia s.l. (10, including 3 new combinations), Podoscypha (19), Stereopsis (3), and Stereum (6). The majority of these genera have only one to five species in the Neotropics, mostly found at higher elevations. Most species of Cymatoderma, Lopharia, and Podoscypha occur in the tropics of both hemispheres. Hydnopolyporus and Cotylidia are moved to an emended Aphelariaceae, and only Cymatoderma and Podoscypha are retained within an emended Podoscyphaceae. Coralloderma and Stereopsis appear to be members of the Gomphaceae, Chondrostereum is in the Meruliaceae, Cystostereum is in the Cystostereaceae, and Stereum is in the Stereaceae. Molecular studies join the majority of the species of Amylostereum with the Echinodontiaceae. The affinities of Aquascypha, Inflatostereum, and Lopharia s.l. are in doubt. Entre los vientiun gneros que han sido separados de Stereum s.l. no hay ms de trece con especies se encuentran en los Neotrpicos: Amylostereum (1 taxon), Aquascypha (2), Chondrostereum (1), Coralloderma (3, 1 comb. nov.), Cotylidia (3), Cystostereum (4, 1 comb. nov.), Cymatoderma (8, 2 comb. nov.), Hydnopolyporus (2, 1 stat. nov.), Inflatostereum (1), Lopharia s.l. (10), Podoscypha (19), Stereopsis (3), y Stereum (6). La mayora de estos gneros tienen de una a cinco especies en los Neotrpicos, usualmente se encuentran en elevaciones altos. Sin embargo, de las mayora de especies de Cymatoderma, Lopharia s.l., y Podoscypha se encuentran en los trpicos de los dos hemisferios. Las familias Aphelariaceae y Podoscyphaceae son emendadas. Los gneros Hydnopolyporus y Cotylidia son agregados a la primera, y slo Cymatoderma y Podoscypha se quedan en Podoscyphaceae. Coralloderma y Stereopsis estan in la Gomphaceae, Chondrostereum est en la Meruliaceae, Cystostereum en la Cystostereaceae, y Stereum en la Stereaceae. Estudios moleculares juntan la mayora de especies de Amylostereum con la Echinodontiaceae. Las afinidades de Aquascypha, Inflatostereum y Lopharia s.l. son dudosas.
4393944|A taxonomic revision of Drosera, the only genus of Droseraceae found in the Neotropics, is presented. The subgenus Drosera and three sections: Drosera, Meristocaulis Maguire & Wurdack, y Thelocalyx Planchon occur in the region. This treatment includes full synonymy, typification, descriptions, and illustrations for 20 species. /// Se presenta una revisin del gnero Drosera nico representante de la familia Droseraceae en el neotrpico, en donde solo aparece el subgnero Drosera y tres secciones: Drosera, Meristocaulis Maguire & Wurdack, y Thelocalyx Planchon. En esta monografa se presenta sinonimia completa, tipificacin, descripcin e ilustraciones de las 20 especies incluidas.
4393819| An introduction is given to New World Arecaceae. A general history of palm taxonomy in the region is followed by a discussion of morphology and pollen morphology, anatomy, cytology, and chemistry, the fossil record and biogeography, ecology and evolution, and uses, domestication, and conservation. A table is given which provides the estimated number of species (approximately 800 total), and the most recent monograph of all 71 genera of New World palms. The introduction is concluded with a key to all genera of New World palms. The main part of the work consists of a taxonomic revision of four genera of palms comprising the subtribe Iriarteinae (Dictyocaryum, Iriartea, Iriartella and Socratea). Their morphology, pollen morphology, anatomy, cytology, fossil record, phylogeny, historical biogeography, reproductive biology, and interactions, are reviewed. Three species of Dictyocaryum are recognized. These are predominantly large canopy palms occurring at altitudes between 1000 and 2000 m in mountainous areas of South America. One species of Iriartea is recognized, a large canopy palm of Central and northern South America, usually below 1000 m altitude. Two species of Iriartella are recognized, both of which are small understory palms of low elevations in the western Amazon basin. Five species of Socratea are recognized. One species is widespread in Central and South America, but the other four are narrower endemics of the Andes and adjacent regions. Although these four genera have been recognized as a subtribe, it is concluded that they represent a paraphyletic group. /// Se da una introduccin para las palmas del Nuevo Mundo. Un recuento histrico general sobre la taxonoma de las palmas en la regin, es seguido por una discusin general sobre morfologa, palinologa, anatoma, citologa, qumica, registros fsiles y biogeografia, ecologa y evolucin, usos, domesticacin, usos, domesticacin y conservacin. Se presenta una tabla con los 71 gneros de palmas del Nuevo Mundo, y para cada uno de ellos se da el nmero estimado de especies (aproximadamente 800 en total), y las monografias ms recientes. La introduccin termina con una clave para todos los gneros de palmas del Nuevo Mundo. La mayor parte del trabajo consiste en una revisin taxonmica de los cuatro gneros de palmas que comprenden la subtribu Iriarteinae (Dictyocaryum, Iriartea, Iriartella, y Socratea). Se revisan diferentes aspectos sobre la morfologa general, morfologa del polen, anatoma, citologa, registros fsiles, filogenia, historia biogeogrfica, biologa reproductiva, e interacciones. Se reconocen tres especies de Dictyocaryum, las cuales son palmas de gran tamao, que crecen, en su mayora, en las reas montaosas de Suramrica, a elevaciones entre 1000 y 2000 metros. Se reconoce una especie de Iriartea, una palma alta, de Centroamrica y el norte de Suramrica, usualmente por debajo de 1000 metros de elevacin. Se reconocen dos especies de Iriartella, ambas palmas de porte pequeo, propias del sotobosque, usualmente a bajas elevaciones en las regiones occidentales de la Amazona. En Socratea se reconocen cinco especies. Una de ellas, ampliamente distribuda en Centroamrica y Suramrica, las otras cuatro con distribucin ms restringida, endmicas de los Andes y regiones adyacentes. Aunque estos cuatro gneros han sido reconocidos como una subtribu, se concluye aqu que ellos representan un grupo parafiltico. 
29534143|Sthl, B. (Deparment of Biology, Gotland University, SE 621 67 Visby, Sweden). Theophrastaceae. Flora Neotropica 105: 1-161. 2010.A taxonomic monograph of the neotropical family Theophrastaceae recognizes seven genera, viz., Bonellia with 20 species distributed in Mesoamerica, the Greater Antilles, and northern South America; Clavija with 56 species distributed from Nicaragua to northern Paraguay and one species in Haiti; Deherainia with two species in Mesoamerica; Jacquinia with 13 species in the Antilles and South America; Neomezia with one species in Cuba; Theophrasta with two species in Hispaniola; and Votschia with one species in Panama. Most species grow in lowland areas with a seasonal, dry climate in habitats such as coastal thickets, dry shrub vegetation, or dry deciduous or semideciduous forests. However, many species of Clavija are distributed in lower montane and lowland rain forests. The family is characterized by having extraxylary, subepidermal sclerenchyma forming layers or bundles of fiber cells on one or both sides of the leaf, robust floweres with staminodial appendages merged with the corolla tube, and anthers partly filled with accumulations of calcium oxalate crystals. All species are woody plants, ranging in habit from dwarf shrubs to small trees 10-15 m tall. Clavija, Neomezia, and Theophrasta are pachycaulous without or with only very few side branches, whereas the other genera are more or less densely branched shrubs and small trees. The flowers of Deherainia, Neomezia, and Theophrasta have a foetid scent associated with myophily and sapromyophily, whereas the other genera, with a few exceptions, have flowers with a fruity or perfumed scent. The fruits are generally few-seeded and berrylike with a leathery or woody pericarp and a juicy, mostly sweet, placental pulp. The family is centered in the Caribbean area, with most genera and species occuring in the Antilles or Mesoamerica. It probably has an origin in tropical North America, and the radiation and diversification of Clavija on the South American continent is likely relatively recent and largely connected to the Andean orogeny. Sthl, B. (Department of Biology, Gotland University, SE 621 67 Visby, Sweden). Theophrastaceae. Flora Neotropica 105: 1-161. 2010.Se presenta una monografa taxonmica de la familia neotropical Theophrastaceae. La familia incluye siete gneros, Bonellia con 20 especies en Mesoamrica, las Antillas Mayores, y el norte de Sudamrica; Clavija con 56 especies en Centro Amrica, Sudamrica, y Hait; Deherainia con dos especies en Mesoamrica; Jacquinia con 13 especies en las Antillas y Sudamrica; Neomezia con un especie en Cuba; Theophrasta con does especies en La Espaola (Repblica Dominicana y Hai); y Votschia con una especie en Panam. La mayora de las especies se encuentran en zonas bajas con un clima seco estacional, incluyendo hbitats como matorral costero, matorral seco espinoso, y bosque deciduo o semideciduo. Sin embargo, muchas espeices de Clavija se encuentran en bosque lluvioso montano bajo y bosque lluvioso de tierras bajas. La familia se caracteriza por tener esclernquima subepidrmico formando capas o paquetes fibrosos en embos lados de la lmina folia, flores robustas con estaminodios fusionados al tubo de la corolla, y anteras con acumulaciones de cristales de oxalato de calcio. Todas las especies son leosas, varan desde arbustos enanos hasta arbolitos de 1015 m de altura. Clavija, Neomezia, y Theophrasta son paquicaulos sin o con pocas ramas mientras los otros gneros son ms o menos densamente ramificados. Las flores de Deherainia, Neomezia, y Theophrasta tienen un olor poco agradable asociado con myofilia o sapromyofila, mientras los otros gneros, con pocas excepciones, tienen flores con un olor a fruta o un olor perfumado. Los frutos son bayas con un pericarpio seco y generalmente pocas semillas sumergidas en una pulpa dulce. La familia tiene su centro de diversidad en el norte del Neotrpico con la mayora de los gneros y de las especies presentes en las Antillas y en Mesoamrica. Es posible que la familia tenga su origen en el rea trpica de Amrica del Norte y que la radiacim y diversificacon de Clavija en Amrica del Sur es un suceso relativamente reciente asociado con la orogenia de los Andes.
4393848| The genus Cyphomandra (Solanaceae) includes about 35 species of shrubs and small trees native to the Neotropics. Cyphomandra ranges from Mexico to northern Argentina and east to southeastern Brazil. Most species are small trees that exploit light gaps in the primary forest. Several species are grown for their edible fruits and one, Cyphomandra betacea, the tree tomato or tamarillo, is cultivated worldwide in tropical and subtropical areas. This species is currently known only from cultivation. This monograph covers aspects of the taxonomic history, morphology, ecology, reproductive biology, infrageneric relationships, biogeography, and uses of Cyphomandra. Thirty-two species are recognized in this treatment, and two insufficiently known taxa are discussed. Five informal species groups are described. All issues of nomenclature and typification pertaining to the genus are comprehensively examined. The genus is defined on the basis of the enlarged anther connective. In addition, the unusually large chromosomes of Cyphomandra are useful in generic delimitation. Unusual ecological aspects of Cyphomandra include its pollination syndrome and herbivore relationships. Male euglossine bees may be important pollinators of Cyphomandra flowers, and the primary attractants may not be pollen, but odor substances secreted by the anther connectives. Specialized herbivores known for Cyphomandra are larvae of neotropical butterflies of the nymphalid subfamily Ithomiinae. Further examination of these plant/insect relationships may elucidate the functional significance of the anther connective in pollination and provide insight into the comparative chemistry of Cyphomandra alkaloids. /// El gnero Cyphomandra (Solanaceae) incluye cerca de 35 especies neotropicales de arbustos y rboles pequeos. La distribucin de Cyphomandra va desde Mxico hasta el norte de Argentina y al este hasta el sureste de Brasil. La mayora de las especies son rboles pequeos que ocupan los claros del bosque primario. Algunas especies se cultivan por sus frutos comestibles y Cyphomandra betacea, el tomate de rbol o tamarillo, se cultiva en las regiones tropicales y subtropicales del mundo. Actualmente esta especie no se conoce en forma salvaje y la informacin acerca de ella proviene slo de ejemplares cultivados. Esta monografa comprende aspectos de la historia taxonmica, morfologa, ecologa, biologa reproductiva, relaciones infragenricas, biogeografa, y los usos de Cyphomandra. Treinta y dos de estas especies estn reconocidas formalmente en este trabajo, y adems se proporciona informacin sobre los dos taxa que poco se conocen. Se describen cinco grupos de especies, pero no se establecen categoras infragenricas formales. Todos los aspectos de nomenclatura y clasificacin acerca del gnero son examinados ampliamente. El gnero se distingue por el engrosamiento del tejido conectivo de las anteras y sus cromosomas excepcionalmente grandes. Algunos aspectos ecolgicos extraordinarios de Cyphomandra son el sndrome de polinizacin y las relaciones con los herbvoros. Abejas machos euglossines pueden ser polinizadores importantes de las flores de Cyphomandra, y la atraccin primaria puede no ser el polen, sino substancias odorferas secretadas por los conectivos de las anteras. Las larvas de mariposas neotropicales de la subfamilia Ithomiinae de las Nymphalidae son herbvoros especializados en Cyphomandra. El reconocimiento adicional de estas relaciones entre plantas e insectos puede aclarar el significado funcional del conectivo de la antera en la polinizacin y dar informacin sobre la qumica comparativa de los alcaloides de Cyphomandra. 
23350499|Gunnera, el nico gnero de la familia Gunneraceae, se distribuye en Centro y Sur Amrica (incluido el Archipilago de Juan Fernndez), Hawaii, SE frica, Malaya, Tasmania y Nueva Zelandia. El gnero consta de seis subgneros, Gunnera, Milligania, Misandra, Ostenigunnera, Panke y Pseudo-gunnera, de los cuales nicamente los subgneros Misandra (1 sp.) y Panke (40 spp.) se encuentran en el neotrpico. Las especies neotropicales suman ms del 70% del total de especies de Gunnera. Las plantas de Gunnera son generalmente rosetas gigantes, rizomatosas, decumbentes o subdecumbentes; rara vez son hierbas estolonferas pequeas. En la presente monografa se incluyen tambin seis especies de la franja extratropical de Sur Amrica, cuatro del subgnero Panke (G. bracteata, G. masafuerae, G. peltata y G. tinctoria), la especie restante del subgnero Misandra (G. lobata), y la nica especie del subgnero Ostenigunnera (G. herteri), esta ltima la que contiene las plantas ms pequeas del gnero. Entre las particularidades de las plantas de Gunnera se destaca la endosimbiosis (nica en Angiospermas) con Nostoc punctiforme, una cianobacteria fijadora de nitrgeno atmosfrico; a esta relacin se atribuyen ciertas caractersticas de Gunnera, como la capacidad de ocupar y establecerse como especies pioneras en hbitat nuevos, cuyos suelos resultan inadecuados para otros grupos de plantas concurrentes. La primera parte de la presente monografa trata la historia taxonmica, morfologa, biologa floral, reproduccin, dispersin, anatoma, cariologa, embriologa, palinologa, filogenia, biogeografa, ecologa, endosimbiosis, conservacin, usos y recomendaciones a tener en cuenta al coleccionar Gunnera. La segunda parte consta de un tratamiento sistemtico de Gunnera en las Amricas, que incluye claves a nivel de subgnero, especie y taxones infraespecficos, descripciones, aspectos nomenclaturales, ilustraciones, mapas de distribucin, usos y nombres vernculos. Los nombres G. ecuadoriana Gilli, G. insignis f. albovariegata L.D. Gmez y G. plicata Vahl se reducen a la sinonimia de G. brephogea Linden & Andr, G. insignis (Oerst.) A.DC. y G. magellanica Lam., respectivamente. Gunnera, the only genus in the family Gunneraceae is present in Central and South America (including the Juan Fernandez Islands), Hawaii, SE Africa, Malaya, Tasmania, and New Zealand. The genus consists of six subgenera, Gunnera, Milligania, Misandra, Ostenigunnera, Panke, and Pseudo-gunnera; of these, Misandra (1 sp.) and Panke (40 spp.) are present in the Neotropics. The neotropical species represent more than 70% of the total number of species in Gunnera. The plants of Gunnera are generally giant rosettes, with decumbent or subdecumbent rhizomes; less often, they are small stoloniferous herbs. The present monograph includes also six extratropical species from South America (four of which belong to the subgenus Panke, G. bracteata, G. masafuerae, G. peltata, and G. tinctoria), one species of the subgenus Misandra (G. lobata), and the sole species of the subgenus Ostenigunnera (G. herteri), which has the smallest plants in the genus. One of the distinctive characters of Gunnera, which is unique in angiosperms, consists of the endosymbiosis with the cyanobacteria Nostoc punctiforme. This symbiosis is responsible for some ecological features such as the ability to occupy new habitats as pioneer species where soils are inadequate for other plants. The first part of this monograph deals with aspects of taxonomic history, morphology, floral biology, reproduction, dispersion, anatomy, caryology, embryology, palynology, phylogeny, biogeography, ecology, symbiosis, conservation, uses, and recommendations for collecting Gunnera. The second part comprises a systematic treatment of Gunnera in the Americas, which includes keys to the subgenera, species and infraspecific taxa, descriptions, nomenclatural aspects, illustrations, maps of distribution, uses, and local names. The names G. ecuadoriana Gilli, G. insignis f. albovariegata L.D. Gmez and G. plicata Vahl are reduced to the synonymy of G. brephogea Linden & Andr, G. insignis (Oerst.) A.DC., and G. magellanica Lam., respectively.
4393851|The Alismataceae are aquatic or semi-aquatic herbs with erect or floating leaves and grow as amphiphytes or hydrophytes. The family consists of 11 genera and about 75 species native to tropical, subtropical, and subtemperate regions in both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres. Two genera of the family, Echinodorus and Sagittaria, are known from the Neotropics. Echinodorus, a genus of 26 species, is restricted to the Western Hemisphere, with all species known from the Neotropics. Sagittaria, a genus of approximately 25 species, is subcosmopolitan, with 14 species known from the Neotropics. Keys to taxa, descriptions of all taxa, illustrations, and documented distribution maps for all species and subspecies are included.
4393816|A monograph of Neotropical Sapotaceae with a systematic treatment of 396 species, including chapters on taxonomic history, morphology, variation and distribution and pollen. Full descriptions are given for all species, as well as generic and species keys. Seventy-one new species and five new subspecies are described in this work.
4393839| Nectandra is the second largest genus of Lauraceae in the New World. In this monograph 114 species are recognized, but a high proportion of new species (33, many collected only recently), suggests that the real number is still higher. The genus is restricted to tropical and subtropical America, including the Antilles. The main center of diversity is found on the eastern slopes of the Andes and in adjacent Amazonian Peru. Most species are trees of wet or moist forests, in both lowland and montane habitats up to ca. 3000 m elevation. Some are locally important timber trees. The introductory section of this study summarizes the general information (often scantly) available for Nectandra, provides illustrations of the main diagnostic characters, and discusses the controversial delimitation and subdivision of the genus. /// El gnero Nectandra es por su nmero de especies el segundo en importancia entre las Laurceas neotropicales. En esta monografa se reconocen 114 especies. Sin embargo, debido a la alta proporcin de especies nuevas (33) es probable que el nmero real sea mas alto, pues muchas de ellas fueron recolectadas solo recientemente. El gnero se distribuye en la Amrica tropical y subtropical, incluyendo las Antillas. Su centro de diversificacin se encuentra en las faldas orientales de los Andes y en la regin adyacente de la Amazonia peruana. La mayora de las especies son rboles de bosques hmedos hasta muy hmedos, tanto en los terrenos bajos como en las montaas hasta aprox. 3000 m de altura. Algunas tienen importancia local como rboles maderables. En la introduccin de este trabajo se resume la informacin general (frecuentemente escasa) disponible sobre Nectandra. Adems, se presentan ilustraciones de los caracteres diagnsticos ms importantes y se discute la delimitacin y subdivisin del gnero. 
4393831| Rollinia, with 44 species currently recognized, takes fourth place among the Neotropical genera of Annonaceae. It stands close to the well-known genus Annona. Rolliniopsis is brought into synonymy with Rollinia. Rollinia annonoides R. E. Fries and R. poeppigii Martius are transferred to Annona, and two new combinations are made accordingly. No new species are proposed in the present monograph, this having been done in an earlier paper. Both synoptical and dichotomous keys are provided for the species. For each species a description, geographical and ecological notes, a distribution map, herbarium specimens, and, whenever applicable, synonymy, chromosome number, taxonomic notes, etc., are given. Overviews are given of the history, gross morphology, geography and ecology, systematics, economic uses, and conservation status of the genus. Vernacular names are also listed. New data are presented in the fields of leaf and wood anatomy, karyology, palynology, seed anatomy, and chemistry. There are field observations on flower biology and some on seed dispersal, all of recent date. One chapter deals with insects, particularly Lepidopters, feeding on Rollinia and the related Annona. /// Rollinia, com 44 espcies atualmente reconhecidas, ocupa o quarto lugar entre os gneros Neotropicais de Annonaceae. Este gnero  prximo do bem conhecido gnero Annona. Rolliniopsis  colocado como sinnimo de Rollinia. Rollinia annonoides R. E. Fries e R. poeppigii Martius so transferidos para o gnero Annona, e consequentemente duas novas combinaaaes so feitas. Na presente monografia nenhuma nova espcie  proposta, isso foi feito em artigos anteriores. Uma chave sinptica e uma dicotmica so fornecidas para as espcies. Para cada espcie so apresentados descriaaes, mapa de distribuo, dados sobre distribuo geogrfica e ecolgica, espcimes herborizadas, e sempre que possvel, notas taxonmicas, nmero de cromossomos, sinnimos, etc., so fornecidos. Alm disso so apresentados dados sobre histria, morfologia, geografia e ecologia, posio sistemtica, importncia econmica e conservao do gnero. Nomes vulgares tambm so listados. Novos dados so apresentados sobre anatomia de madeira e foliar, cariologia, palinologia, anatomia de sementes, e qumica. Tem algumas observaaaes de campo sobre biologia floral e disperso de sementes, todos dados recentes. Um captulo trata de insetos, particularmente Lepidpteros, que alimentam-se de Rollinia e Annona. 
4393935| This monograph presents a taxonomic revision of the neotropical species of the tribe Alchorneae (Hurus.) Hutch., which consist of the genera Alchornea Sw., Aparisthmium Endl. and Conceveiba Aubl. In Alchornea 23 species have been recognized for the neotropics. Alchornea websterii R. Secco is described as a new species and a status novum, A. glandulosa subsp. iricurana (Casar.) R. Secco is proposed. Aparisthmium is a monotypic genus with the only species A. cordatum, which presents a wide geographic distribution in South America. Conceveiba has 13 species in the neotropics. The genera Conceveibastrum and Gavarretia have been considered as synonym of Conceveiba. A discussion on the identity and systematic position of Polyandra Leal is presented. Alchornea leptogyna Diels, A. pavonioeides Posada-Ar., A. valleana Croizat and Conceveiba prealta (Leal) Punt ex J. Murillo have been considered as doubtful species. Data on the morphology of the species, including habit, indument, leaves, inflorescences, flowers, pollen, anatomy, fruits and seeds, as well as a brief chapter about the dispersal, pollination, sexual systems, seedlings, chromosomes, chemistry, ethnobotany and conservation is presented. The center of diversification of Alchornea is in Colombia, where 16 species occur. Alchornea has seven species with wide patterns of distribution, 12 species with restricted patterns of distribution and four species with very restricted distribution. Conceveiba presents three species with wide geographic distribution patterns, seven species with restricted geographic distribution patterns and three species with very restricted geographic distribution patterns. Some hypothetical evolutionary trends were found for the studied genera: in the case of Alchornea, the leaf pattern of venation, which splits up the genera in two species groups: I. With pinnate venation, including the patterns brochydrodomous or slightly eucamptodromous, and II. With venation actinodromous. In the case of Conceveiba, simple/stellate hair, 20-60 stamens free or slightly connate at the bases and without staminodes, 8-15 stamens, connate at the bases, located external to the staminodes, and inflorescences with 1-3 flowers/inflorescences with flowers in glomerules. In the case of Aparisthmium, stamens 8-10/stamens 3-5. /// Esta monografia trata da reviso taxonmica das espcies neotropicais da tribo Alchorneae (Hurusawa) Hutchinson, que compe-se dos gneros Alchornea Sw., Aparisthmium Endl. e Conceveiba Aubl. Em Alchornea foram reconhecidas 23 espcies. Alchornea websterii R. Secco  uma nova espcie aqui proposta para o Equador.  proposto um status novum, A. glandulosa subsp. iricurana (Casar.) R. Secco. Aparisthmium constitui-se de apenas uma espcie, A. cordatum, e apresenta ampla distribuio na Amrica do Sul. Conceveiba apresenta 13 espcies. Os gneros Conceveibastrum e Gavarretia foram considerados sinnimos de Conceveiba. Uma discusso sobre a identidade e posio sistemtica de Polyandra Leal  apresentada. Alchornea leptogyna Diels, A. pavonioeides Posada-Ar., A. valleana Croizat e Conceveiba prealta (Leal) Punt ex J. Murillo foram consideradas espcies duvidosas. Dados sobre a morfologia das espcies, incluindo hbito, indumento, folhas, inflorescncias, flores, plen, anatomia, frutos e sementes, bem como um resumo sobre disperso, polinizao, sistemas sexuais, plntulas, cromossomos, qumica, etnobotnica e conservao das mesmas so apresentados. Alchornea apresenta trs padres de distribuio geogrfica: espcies amplamente distribudas (sete), espcies de distribuio restrita (12) e espcies de distribuio muito restrita (quatro endemismos). O centro de diversidade gentica de Alchornea est na Colmbia, onde ocorrem 16 espcies. Conceveiba apresenta trs espcies com padres de distribuio amplos, seis espcies com distribuio restrita e duas espcies com distribuio muito restrita. Algumas tendncias evolutivas, de carter hipottico, foram assinaladas para os gneros estudados, destacandose: no caso de Alchornea, o padro de venao foliar, que divide o gnero em 2 grupos de espcies (I. com venao pinada, incluindo os padres broquiddromo ou levemente eucamptdromo e II. com venao actindroma). No caso de Conceveiba, tricomas simples/estrelados, 20-60 estames livres ou levemente concrescidos nas bases e sem estamindios/8-15 estames, concrescidos nas bases, dispostos externamente aos estamindios, e inflorescncias com flores isoladas, aos pares ou em trades/inflorescncias com flores dispostas em glomrulos. No caso de Aparisthmium, estames 8-10/estames 3-5. 
25800083|Disterigma (Ericaceae) is a neotropical blueberry genus that grows in Central and South America. A few species of Disterigma are widespread; many are narrow endemics or are at least altitudinally confined to the cold and humid environments of the cloud forests and pramos. The shrubs of Disterigma are typically small and have diverse growth forms that include erect, scandent, prostrate, or cushion-like shrubs. As the number of described species within Disterigma increased over time, the morphological characters that distinguished it from other inferior-ovaried Ericaceae became less clear to the point to raise doubts about its monophyletic status. Recent comprehensive phylogenetic analyses incorporating both morphological and molecular data allowed the identification of a Disterigma clade, where the type species of the genus is found. The Disterigma clade is the subject of this monograph and 32 species are here recognized within it. Disterigma can be distinguished from other Vaccinieae by the presence of a pair of bracteoles inserted right at the apex of the pedicel, which are differentiated in size from other bracts and bracteoles accompanying the flower; another putative synapomorphy of Disterigma is the presence of white embryos. The majority of the species of Disterigma are found in the northern Andes with 26 species growing in the mountains of Colombia and Ecuador; seven of these species are exclusive to this region. Colombia has the greatest number of species followed by Ecuador and Peru. This monograph includes changes in the circumscription and nomenclature of three of the most widespread species of the genus (D. acuminatum, D. alaternoides, and D. humboldtii), the resurrection of D. dendrophilum, the placement of seven names in synonymy, the proposal of a new name (D. parallelinerve), and the designation of two neotypes (D. ulei and Metagonia prostrata) and a lectotype (D. weberbaueri). A type species is here designated for the genus Metagonia and the genus Killipiella is synonymized with Disterigma. Additionally, during the preparation of this monograph eight new species were discovered of which D. baguense, D. campanulatum, D. chocoanum, D. ollacheum, and D. synanthum are here described and illustrated. Five species are excluded from Disterigma (D. bracteatum, D. pentandrum, D. rimbachii, D. trimerum, and D. ulei), but their placement within Vaccinieae needs further work. Disterigma (Ericaceae) es un gnero neotropical de uvitos de pramo (agraz, mortio) presente en Centro y Sur Amrica. Aunque algunas especies de Disterigma tienen distribucin geogrfica amplia, la mayora son endmicas o estn restringidas altitudinalmente a los ambientes fros y hmedos que caracterizan los bosques de niebla y los pramos. Las Disterigma son arbustos pequeos y stos pueden ser erectos, escandentes, postrados o formar cojines densos. La monoflia del gnero Disterigma y los caracteres morfolgicos que permitan separarlo de entre las dems Ericaceae con ovario nfero se fueron haciendo menos claros en la medida que el nmero de especies conocidas se increment. Anlisis filogenticos recientes y detallados, basados en datos morfolgicos y moleculares, han permitido la identificacin del clado Disterigma, en donde se encuentra la especie tipo del gnero. El clado Disterigma es el sujeto de esta monografa y 32 especies son aqu reconocidas. Disterigma se distingue de otras Vaccinieae por la presencia de un par de bracteolas ubicadas justo en el pice del pedicelo y cuyo tamao las diferencia claramente de otras brcteas y bractolas que acompaan la flor; otra probable sinapomorfa del gnero es la presencia de embriones blancos. La mayora de las especies de Disterigma se encuentran en el norte de los Andes, con 26 especies en las montaas de Colombia y Ecuador; siete de estas especies son exclusivas de la regin. Colombia tiene el mayor nmero de especies, seguido de Ecuador y Per. Este tratamiento incluye cambios en la circunscripcin y nomenclatura de tres de las especies de ms amplia distribucin (D. acuminatum, D. alaternoides, y D. humboldtii), la restauracin de D. dendrophilum, la sinonimizacin de siete nombres, la presentacin de un nuevo nombre (D. parallelinerve), y la designacin de dos netipos (D. ulei y Metagonia prostrata) y un lecttipo (D. weberbaueri). Tambin se designa la especie tipo del gnero Metagonia y el gnero Killipiella se sinonimiza con Disterigma. Adicionalmente, durante la realizacin de esta monografa ocho especies nuevas han sido descubiertas, y D. baguense, D. campanulatum, D. chocoanum, D. ollacheum, y D. synanthum son ac descritas e ilustradas. Cinco especies son segregadas de Disterigma (D. bracteatum, D. pentandrum, D. rimbachii, D. trimerum, y D. ulei), pero an no se conocen bien sus afinidades filogenticas dentro de Vaccinieae.
4393854| The Stereophyllaceae are a family of singly costate pleurocarpous mosses with hypnalean peristomes. The family is primarily distinguished by the collenchymatous, differentiated alar cells that are quadrate, rectangular or irregularly angled, and usually unequally distributed on either side of the costa and extending over its adaxial surface. The family contains two subfamilies, the Stereophylloideae and the Pilosioideae. The Stereophylloideae in Latin America contain seven genera: Catagoniopsis Brotherus (1 species), Entodontopsis Brotherus (7 species), Eulacophyllum Buck & Ireland (1 species), Juratzkaea Lorentz (2 species), Sciuroleskea Hampe ex Brotherus (2 species), Stenocarpidium C. Mller (1 species) and Stereophyllum Mitten (1 species). The Pilosioideae, newly described here, contain only Pilosium (C. Mller) Fleischer (1 species). All 16 species of the family in Latin America are described, illustrated and their distributions mapped. 
4393857| A monograph of the genera of neotropical Ericaceae with superior ovaries is presented with a systematic treatment of 18 genera and 155 species, including chapters on taxonomic history, morphology, anatomy, pollen, chemistry, cytology, ecology, distribution, uses, phylogeny, etc. Full descriptions, including nomenclature, distribution maps, citation of specimens, and some illustrations, are given for the species, as are generic and species keys. /// Se presenta una monografa de los gneros de Ericaceae neotropicales con ovario superior con un tratamiento sistemtico de 18 gneros y 155 especies, incluyendo captulos sobre historia taxonmica, morfologa, anatoma, polen, qumica, citologa, ecologa, distribucin, usos, filogenia, etc. Se dan descripciones completas, incluyendo nomenclatura, mapas de distribucin, citacin de especmenes y algunas ilustraciones para las especies, como tambin claves para gneros y especies. 
4393739| A monographic treatment of Bignoniaceae, tribe Tecomeae, for the Neotropics, treating 19 native genera and 203 native species plus 11 additional subspecies and 7 varieties. Also included are several paleotropical genera and species that are more or less regularly cultivated or naturalized in the Neotropics. The treatment of the 49 species of Jacaranda, partially based on the Ph.D. thesis of Wilfried Morawetz, is jointly authored with Dr. Morawetz. Included are keys to the genera and species, illustrations for each genus, descriptions and distribution maps for each species, and a complete list of exsiccatae. Thirteen species and a subspecies are described as new-Jacaranda carajasensis A. Gentry, J. caucana ssp. calycina A. Gentry, J. intricata A. Gentry & Morawetz, J. microcalyx A. Gentry, J. rugosa A. Gentry, Sparattosperma catingae A. Gentry, Tabebuia arianeae A. Gentry, T. botelhensis A. Gentry, T. caleticana A. Gentry & Albert, T. cristata A. Gentry, T. pumila A. Gentry, T. reticulata A. Gentry, T. riodocensis A. Gentry, and T. selachidentata A. Gentry. In addition two new combinations are proposed in Tabebuia-T. myrtifolia var. petrophila (Greenman) A. Gentry and T. pedicellata (Bureau & K. Schumann) A. Gentry. An illustrated appendix on the wood anatomy of the Tecomeae, by Gracielza Dos Santos and Regis B. Miller is also included. /// Se presenta un tratamiento monogrfico de Bignoniaceae, Tribo Tecomeae, para los neotrpicos, incluyendo 19 gneros nativos con 203 especies nativas mas 11 subespecies y 7 variedades. Tambin se incluyen varios gneros y especies paleotrpicos a menudo cultivados o naturalizados. Jacaranda tiene como co-autor a W. Morawetz y est basada en parte en su tesis doctoral. Se ha includo claves a gneros y especies, ilustraciones para cada gnero, descripciones y mapas de distribucin para cada especie, y una lista completa de exsiccatae. Trece especies y una subespecie son descritas como nuevas-Jacaranda carajasensis A. Gentry, J. caucana ssp. calycina A. Gentry, J. intricata A. Gentry & Morawetz, J. microcalyx A. Gentry, J. rugosa A. Gentry, Sparattosperma catingae A. Gentry, Tabebuia arianeae A. Gentry, T. botelhensis A. Gentry, T. caleticana A. Gentry & Albert, T. cristata A. Gentry, T. pumila A. Gentry, T. reticulata A. Gentry, T. riodocensis A. Gentry, and T. selachidentata A. Gentry. Tambin hay dos combinaciones nuevas propuestas para Tabebuia-T. myrtifolia var. petrophila (Greenman) A. Gentry y T. pedicellata (Bureau & K. Schumann) A. Gentry. Se incluye tambin un apndice illustrado de la anatoma leosa de la Tecomeae preparado por Gracielza Dos Santos y Regis B. Miller. 
4393681| Since the Flora Neotropica account of the Chrysobalanaceae was published in 1972, much new material has been collected. This supplement to the earlier monograph has studied 6170 new collections and includes the descriptions of 67 new taxa that have been described since the monograph, 64 of which are published as new species in this work. Full descriptions are given of all new species and they are numbered next to their closest relatives in the original monograph. New generic keys are provided to incorporate all the new species and other minor changes in taxonomy that were made in the light of the better material of many species. /// Depois a publicao da familia Chrysobalanaceae (1972) em Flora Neotropica muito material botnica foi coletada. Foram estudadas 6170 colees novas e descritas 67 taxa novas, incluido 64 apresentadas nesta obra. Descries de tudos espcies descritas desde 1972 e chaves novas para cada gnero so fornicidas. 
4393842| A revision of the Neotropical Haemodoraceae is given comprising four genera: Lachnanthes, Pyrrorhiza, Schiekia, and Xiphidium. The first three genera are monotypic whereas Xiphidium is represented by two species. Schiekia orinocensis is composed of two subspecies; S. orinocensis subsp. silvestris Maas & Stoel is herein described as new. All (sub)species are fully illustrated. The introduction includes a paragraph dealing with the micromorphology of the seeds illustrated by SEM photographs. /// A reviso das Haemodoraceae neotropicais  presentada contendo quatros gneros: Lachnanthes, Pyrrorhiza, Schiekia, e Xiphidium. As primeiros tres gneros so monotpicos, enquanto Xiphidium  representado por duas espcies. Schiekia orinocensis se manifesta com duas subespcies e a subsp. silvestris Maas & Stoel  descrita aqui como nova. Todas as (sub)espcies so amplamente ilustradas. A introduo inclui um pargrafo com SEM fotografias da micromorfologia das sementes. 
4393869| The neotropical plam genus Aiphanes (Arecoideae: Cocoeae: Bactridinae) is revised. The genus is characterized by the combination of emergent spines, praemorse pinnae, protandrous inflorescences, and pistillate flowers with petals for half their length. Its taxonomic history, morphology, pollen morphology, anatomy, chromosome numbers, distribution and ecology, reproductive biology, and inter- and intrageneric relationships are discussed. We recognize 22 species, distributed in the Lesser Antilles, Trinidad, Venezuela, and along the Andes south to Bolivia, with a concentration of species in western Colombia. Most species of Aiphanes are understory palms in humid forest types, from 0 to 3000 m above sea level. Aiphanes spicata, from Peru, is described as new to science. Aiphanes kalbreyeri and A. fosteriorum are reduced to subspecies under A. hirsuta, and a new subspecies, A. hirsuta subsp. intermedia, is described. /// Se revisa el gnero neotropico de palmas Aiphanes (Arecoideae: Cocoeae: Bactridinae). El gnero se caracteriza por la combinacin de aguijones, pinnas praemorsas, inflorecencias protandricas, y flores pistilladas con petalos unidos hasta la mitad. Se discute la historia taxonomica, morfologa, palynologa, anatoma, numero de cromosomas, distribucin y ecologa del gnero. Se reconocen 21 especies, distribuidas en las Antillas menores, Trinidad, Venezuela y a lo largo de los Andes desde Panam hasta Bolivia, con una concentracin mayor de especies en Colombia occidental. La mayoria de las especies son palmas de sotobosque creciendo en bosques humedos, desde el nivel de mar hasta 3000 m. Se describe Aiphanes spicata como nueva especie. Se reducen Aiphanes kalbreyeri y A. fosteriorum a subespecies bajo A. hirsuta, y se describe una nueva subespecie, A. hirsuta subsp. intermedia. 
4393863| A taxonomic monograph is presented of the neotropical species of Juncaceae. The family includes eight genera (Juncus, Luzula, Oxychloe, Distichia, Patosia, Marsippospermum, Rostkovia, Prionium) and about 300 species. They all have glumaceous, usually complete, pentacyclic, trimerous flowers, and the vast majority are grass-like herbs, one exception being the South African monotypic genus Prionium, which is woody and up to several meters high. In the neotropical region six genera are represented, Marsippospermum and Prionium being absent. The largest genera are Juncus, with some 220 species of which 41 occur in the neotropical area, and Luzula, with some 75 species of which eight are represented in the Neotropics. The remaining genera are small: Rostkovia (two species, one neotropical), Oxychloe (six species, one neotropical), Distichia (three neotropical species), and Patosia (one neotropical species). The geographic concentration of genera of Juncaceae is in the Southern Hemisphere with a strong transpacific element. The neotropical representatives of Juncaceae are all restricted to the highlands except towards the northern and southern limits of the area, where a few species are found at lower elevations. The two large genera (Juncus, Luzula) are mainly north temperate. The neotropical representatives of these genera include three, approximately equally large phytogeographic elements; about one-third of the species are north temperate species and another third are south temperate species that reach into the neotropical region; the last third of the species are restricted to the neotropical area. /// Se presenta una monografa taxonmica de las especies neotropicales de la familia Juncaceae. La familia incluye ocho gneros (Juncus, Luzula, Oxychloe, Distichia, Patosia, Marsippospermum, Rostkovia, Prionium) y alrededor de 300 especies. Las especies se caracterizan por tener flores glumceas, usualmente bisexuales, pentacclicas, trmeras; la mayora de ellas son herbceas con apariencia de gramneas. A diferencia de los otros gneros, Prionium de Sud Africa, es leoso y tiene una altura de varios metros. De los ocho gneros de Juncaceae, Marsippospermum y Prionium no se encuentran en el Neotrpico, mientras los seis restantes estn presentes en la zona neotropical. Los gneros ms grandes son Juncus con unas 220 especies (41 neotropicales), y Luzula con unas 75 especies (ocho neotropicales). Los dems gneros tienen pocas especies: Rostkovia (dos especies, una neotropical), Oxychloe (seis especies, una neotropical), Distichia (tres especies neotropicales), y Patosia (una especie neotropical). La concentracin ms alta de gneros est en el hemisferio sur y los gneros all presentes constituyen un elemento trans-Pacfico. Los dos gneros grandes (Juncus y Luzula) se distribuyen principalmente en el hemisferio norte. Los representantes neotropicales de estos dos gneros se dividen en tres elementos fitogeogrficos; una tercera parte de las especies est distribuida en la zona templada del norte y su distribucin se extiende hasta la zona neotropical; otra tercera parte corresponde a especies de la zona templada del sur con extensiones a la zona neotropical, finalmente existe un elemento fitogeogrfico de especies restringidas exclusivamente a la zona neotropical. 
4393893| A revision is given of the neotropical palm genus Bactris, based on the study of morphology and anatomy. Seventy-three species and 21 varieties are recognized. Seven new species and one new variety are described: B. bahiensis Noblick, B. glassmanii Medeiros-Costa and Noblick, B. halmoorei Henderson, B. hatschbachii Noblick, B. horridispatha Noblick, B. martiana Henderson, B. soeiroana Noblick, and B. hirta Martius var. jenmanii Henderson. Two new combinations are made: B. gasipaes Kunth var. chichagui (H. Karsten) Henderson, and B. hirta Martius var. lakoi (Burret) Henderson. The new name Bactris chaveziae Henderson replaces Bactris concinna var. sigmoidea (non B. sigmoidea Burret). Seven lectotypes and nine neotypes are designated. /// Se presenta una revisin del gnero de palmera neotropical Bactris, basado en un estudio morfolgico. Se reconocen 73 especies y 21 variedades. Se describen siete especies nuevas y una nueva variedad: B. bahiensis Noblick, B. glassmanii Medeiros-Costa and Noblick, B. halmoorei Henderson, B. hatschbachii Noblick, B. horridispatha Noblick, B. martiana Henderson, B. soeiroana Noblick, y B. hirta Martius var. jenmanii Henderson. Se realizan dos nuevas combinaciones: B. gasipaes Kunth var. chichagui (H. Karsten) Henderson, y B. hirta Martius var. lakoi (Burret) Henderson. El nuevo nombre Bactris chaveziae Henderson remplaza Bactris concinna var. sigmoidea (non B. sigmoidea Burret). Siete lectotipos y nueve neotipos estan designados. 
4393724|Neotropical Lecythidaceae comprise 197 known species in 11 genera of which 137 species in six genera (Couroupita, Corythophora, Bertholletia, Couratari, Eschweilera, and Lecythis) are treated in this monograph. Eschweilera amazoniciformis Mori, E. amplexifolia Mori, E. atropetiolata Mori, E. baguensis Mori, E. beebei Mori, E. boltenii Mori, E. carinata Mori, E. chartaceifolia Mori, E. integricalyx Mori, E. jacquelyniae Mori, E. longipedicellata Mori, E. longirachis Mori, E. microcalyx Mori, E. neblinensis Mori, E. neei Mori, E. piresii Mori, E. punctata Mori, E. revoluta Mori, E. rionegrense Mori, E. roraimensis Mori, E. rodriguesiana Mori, E. rufifolia Mori, E. subcordata Mori, E. venezuelica Mori, Lecythis parvifructa Mori, L. pneumatophora Mori, L. prancei Mori, and L. serrata Mori are described as new species. Keys are provided for the known species of each genus and synonymy, descriptions, distribution maps, habitat, local names, economic uses, and herbarium voucher specimens are given for each species. Descriptions of the secondary xylem of all genera of Neotropical Lecythidaceae are presented. The utility of wood anatomy in the generic and infrageneric classification of Neotropical Lecythidaceae, the affinities of Asteranthos based on secondary xylem, and inter-familial relationships of Lecythidaceae as suggested by wood anatomy are discussed. In addition, a key to genera based on wood anatomy is provided. A complete list of vouchered wood samples available for study is included. An update on the pollination biology of Neotropical Lecythidaceae is discussed and overviews of distribution, ecology, and conservation status of Neotropical Lecythidaceae are provided. The authors point out that, although much has been learned, there is still much to be learned about the taxonomy and ecology of Neotropical Lecythidaceae. Consequently, there remains the need for carefully prepared botanical collections, especially those which provide flowers and mature fruits from the same trees. /// As Lecythidaceae Neotropicais abrangem 197 espcies descritas em 11 gneros; deste total, 137 espcies em seis gneros (Couroupita, Corythophora, Bertholletia, Couratari, Eschweilera e Lecythis) so includas neste trabalho. Eschweilera amazoniciformis Mori, E. amplexifolia Mori, E. atropetiolata Mori, E. baguensis Mori, E. beebei Mori, E. boltenii Mori, E. carinata Mori, E. chartaceifolia Mori, E. integricalyx Mori, E. jacquelyniae Mori, E. longipedicellata Mori, E. longirachis Mori, E. microcalyx Mori, E. neblinensis Mori, E. neei Mori, E. piresii Mori, E. punctata Mori, E. revoluta Mori, E. rionegrense Mori, E. roraimensis Mori, E. rodriguesiana Mori, E. rufifolia Mori, E. subcordata Mori, E. venezuelica Mori, Lecythis parvifructa Mori, L. pneumatophora Mori, L. prancei Mori, and L. serrata Mori so descritas como novas para a cincia. Chaves para identifacao das espcies em cada gnero e sinonmia, descries, mapas de distribuio geogrfica, habitat, nomes vulgares, usos econmicos e colees herborizadas so apresentados para cada espcie. Descries do xilema secundrio de todos os gneros Neotropicais so apresentados. A utilidade da anatomia do xilema na classificao genrica e infragenrica das Lecythidaceae Neotropicais, as afinidades de Asteranthos baseadas no xilema secundrio e as relaes interfamiliares sugeridas pela anatomia da madeira so discutidas.  apresentada uma chave para gneros baseada no xilema secundrio. Uma lista de amostras de madeira correspondentes a material herborizado  includo. Resumos da biologia da polinizao, distribuio geogrfica, ecologia e conservao das Lecythidaceae Neotropicais so apresentados. Os autores frisam que, embora tenham aprendido muito, resta ainda muito para se conhecer sobre a taxonomia e ecologia das Lecythidaceae Neotropicais. Consequentemente, ainda permanece a necessidade de um maior nmero de colees cuidadosamente preparadas, especialmente as que proporcionam flores e frutos maduros das mesmas rvores.
4393926| A revision of the genus Ceratolejeunea (Hepaticae) in Tropical America is presented based on the examination of fresh plant material and over 1000 herbarium specimens and types of the over 100 species names published for the American continent. In this treatment, 23 Ceratolejeunea species are recognized in two subgenera: subgen. Ceratolejeunea (4 spp.) and subgen. Caduciloba Schust. (19 spp.). A new species, Ceratolejeunea minuta G. Dauphin, is described, and a new combination, Ceratolejeunea dussiana (Steph.) Dauphin, is proposed. Morphological descriptions, distributional and ecological data, keys, and illustrations of the species are given. A phylogenetic analysis of the genus based on morphological characters is also presented. /// Se presenta una revision del gnero Ceratolejeunea (Hepaticae) en Amrica Tropical, basada en el estudio de plantas vivas y ms de 1000 especmenes de herbario y tipos de ms de 100 especies publicadas para la regin. Se reconocen 23 especies de Ceratolejeunea en 2 subgneros: subgen. Ceratolejeunea (4 spp.) y subgen. Caduciloba Schust. (19 spp.). Se describe Ceratolejeunea minuta G. Dauphin y se propone una nueva combinacin Ceratolejeunea dussiana (Steph.) Dauphin. Se provee de descripciones morfolgicas, datos de distribucin y ecolgicos, as como claves e ilustraciones de las especies. Se presenta tambin un anlisis filogentico del gnero basado en caracteres morfolgicos. 
4393908| Solanum section Geminata s.l. (Solanaceae) includes about 126 species of shrubs and small trees native to the Neotropics. Members of the section range from northern Mexico and the West Indies throughout South America to Uruguay and northern Argentina. A single species is native to the Paleotropics, from China to tropical Australia, and is also unusual in the group in being polyploid. Most species are shrubs or small treelets found in light gaps or along streams in primary forest understory. A few species are common in second growth forests in many forest types. The section as treated here contains species with both simple and branched trichomes. It is clear from this study that the trichome characters traditionally used to differentiate sections of Solanum are too variable to be of use in sect. Geminata. Some species traditionally treated as members of sects. Pseudocapsicum, Indubitaria, and Holophylla are included in the monograph, as those sections as traditionally constituted are artificial groupings of apparently unrelated taxa. The monograph treats taxonomic history, morphology, ecology, and natural history of Solanum sect. Geminata s.l. One hundred twenty-six species are recognized in this treatment and four insufficiently known taxa are discussed in context with their putative relatives. The section has been divided into 16 species groups to facilitate identification and future in-depth phylogenetic study. Species groups are defined using largely characters of: 1) sympodial structure, 2) leaf shape, 3) trichome morphology, 4) inflorescence morphology, 5) pedicel scar type, 6) fruiting pedicel morphology, and 7) seed morphology. A fundamental difference in seed morphology appears to separate the section into two broad groups: those species groups with flattened reniform seeds typical of those found elsewhere in the family, and species groups with unusual ovoid reniform seeds found only in sect. Geminata. All typification and nomenclatural issues pertaining to the section and its component species are comprehensively examined. Section Geminata s.l. may not be monophyletic, but knowledge about related groups is scanty and a definitive judgment cannot be made at present. Extensive ecological data are included on pollination and herbivory. Pollination in Solanum sect. Geminata is similar to that observed throughout the genus. Female bees of several families vibrate the poricidal anthers and extract pollen. Specialized herbivores of members of the section are beetles of the family Chrysomelidae and nymphalid butterflies of the subfamily Ithomiinae. Larvae of relatively phylogenetically "advanced" butterflies feed on species in the section, but specific host/herbivore tracking is not apparent. Future cladistic studies of both hosts and herbivores may reveal patterns in these relationships. /// Solanum section Geminata s.l. (Solanaceae) incluye alrededor de 126 especies de arbustos y pequeos rboles nativos del Neotrpico. Miembros de la seccin se distribuyen desde Mxico y las Antillas, a travs de Sudamrica, hasta Uruguay y el norte de Argentina. Una sola especie es nativa del Paleotrpico, desde China hasta Australia, siendo inusual en el grupo por ser adems poliploide. La mayora de las especies son rboles pequeos que crecen en claros o a lo largo de arroyos, en el sotosbosque de bosques primarios. Pocas especies son comunes en bosques secundarios de diversos tipos. La seccin, en la forma aqu tratada, contiene especies con ambos tipos de tricomas, simples y ramificados. De este estudio resulta claro que los caracteres del tricoma, tradicionalmente utilizados para diferenciar secciones de Solanum, son demasiado variables para ser empleados en la seccin Geminata. Algunas especies, tradicionalmente tratadas como miembros de las secciones Pseudocapsicum, Indubitaria y Holophylla, son incluidas en la monografia, ya que estas secciones estaban tradicionalmente constituidas en agrupaciones artificiales de taxa sin relacin aparentent. La monografia trata la historia taxonmica, morfologa, ecologa e historia natural del gnero Solanum seccin Geminata s.l. Ciento veintiseis especies son reconocidas en el tratamiento y cuatro taxones, insuficientemente conocidos, son discutidos en contexto con sus parientes putativos. La seccin ha sido dividida en 16 grupos de especies, a modo de facilitar su identificacin y un futuro estudio filogentico profundo. Los grupos de especies son definidos utilizando fundamentalmente caracteres de: 1) estructura simpodial, 2) forma de la hoja, 3) morfologa de los tricomas, 4) morfologa de la inflorescencia, 5) tipo de cicatriz del pedicelo, 6) morfologa del pedicelo frutal, y 7) morfologa de la semilla. Una diferencia fundamental en la forma de las semillas parece separar la seccin en dos grandes grupos: un grupo de especies con semillas reniformes y aplanadas, tipicamente encontradas en la familia; y otro grupo de especies con semillas ovoide-reniformes, inusuales, encontradas slo en la seccin Geminata. Son tratados in extenso todas las cuestiones nomenclaturales y de tipificacin relacionadas con la seccin y sus especies componentes. La seccin Geminata podra no ser monofiltica, pero el conocimiento sobre grupos afines es todava escaso y por el momento no puede haber un juicio definitivo. Se incluyen extensos datos ecolgicos sobre polinizacin y herbivorismo. La polinizacin en Solanum seccin Geminata es similar a lo observado en el gnero. Abejas hembras de varias familias hacen vibrar las anteras poricidas, extrayendo as el polen. Herbvoros especializados de miembros de la seccin son escarabajos pertenecientes a la familia Chrysomelidae y mariposas de la subfamilia Ithomiinae. Larvas de mariposas, relativamente avanzadas filogeneticamente, se alimentan de especies de la seccin, pero aparentemente no hay una relacin especfica herbvoro/husped. Futuros estudios cladsticos de ambos, herbvoro y husped, podran revelar relaciones de este tipo. 
4393929| A taxonomic monograph of Endlicheria, a South America-centered genus of the Ocotea complex, is presented; and with the benefit of molecular data showing that its members are nested within Rhodostemonodaphne and Ocotea, its delimitation is assessed in morphological detail. Sixty species of Endlicheria are recognized, of which 16 are newly described. Two species are transferred to Rhodostemonodaphne. Nine infrageneric species groups are informally recognized in Endlicheria. Of these, the Endlicheria punctulata species group is closer to species of the Ocotea cernua species group than to its congeners, in both molecular and morphological aspects. Representatives of each of the eight remaining species groups are united with a diverse representation of Rhodostemonodaphne in a well-supported but unresolved clade. The significance of this Endlicheria-Rhodostemonodaphne alliance is explored from a morphological perspective. It is suggested that the two-locellate anthers that distinguish Endlicheria from Rhodostemonodaphne evolved repeatedly. /// Se presenta una monografa taxonmica de Endlicheria, gnero perteneciente al complejo de Ocotea con centro de diversidad en Amrica del Sur; y con la ventaja de datos moleculares monstrando que sus miembros estn incluidos dentro de Rhodostemonodaphne y Ocotea, su delimitacin gnerica es evaluada morfolgicamente al detalle. Se reconocen 60 especies en Endlicheria, de las cuales 16 se describen como nuevas. Dos especies son transferidas a Rhodostemonodaphne. Nueve grupos infragenricos de especies son informalmente reconocidos en Endlicheria. De stos, el grupo de especies de Endlicheria punctulata est ms cercanamente emparentada al grupo de especies de Ocotea cernua que a las especies congenricas, tanto en los aspectos moleculares como en los morfolgicos. Los representantes de los ocho grupos de especies restantes, junto con una representacin diversa de Rhodostemonodaphne forman un clado con buen soporte pero sin resolucin. La importancia de la alianza Endlicheria-Rhodostemonodaphne es evaluada desde una perspectiva morfolgica. Es sugerido que las anteras con dos lculos que distinguen Endlicheria de Rhodostemonodaphne podran haber evolucionado repetidamente. 
4393860| The genus Piriqueta (Turneraceae) is mostly neotropical. It comprises two sections: section Piriqueta includes all 41 species native to the American continent, while section Africana contains only one species, P. capensis. Floral organization is the same in all the species of Piriqueta: there is a short calyx tube to which the petal claws and corona are adnate; the filaments are also briefly adnate to the base of the calyx tube. The peduncle and the pedicel are developed and free. The seed is reticulate in all the species. The presence of indumentum on the seed is in great measure correlated with the indumentum of calyx lobes. When the seed is minutely puberulent, inner lobes are pilose, with stripes of appressed, ordered, silky hairs just inside the membranaceous borders. When the seed is glabrous, inner lobes are glabrous or glabrescent on both sides of the middle vein. Only a few species show a different association of these characters. Two-thirds of the genus have puberulent seeds and calyx lobes almost completely hairy. More than half of these species have setiform glandular hairs and tuberculate fruits. Some of them have axillary inflorescences; the shrubby species of the genus are among these. Analyzing the distribution of the abovementioned characters, it may be assumed that the following are derived or specialized in the genus: the glabrous seed, the glabrescent inner calyx lobes, the lack of glandular setiform hairs, and the smooth fruit. The American species grow from southern United States to northern Argentina and Uruguay; 19 species have endemic areas, 16 have restricted distribution and only six are widely distributed. Because Piriqueta is not well represented in most herbaria now, these figures will probably be modified in the future. Several species are known only from the type or a small number of specimens. The generic center of variation is in the montane regions of Bahia (Brazil), where 19 species are found with eight being endemic. A second center is in Paraguay and surrounding regions, where 11 species are found, two of them endemic and seven with restricted areas. There are but few chromosome counts in Piriqueta. The basic number is x = 7; among the species studied, 30% are polyploids. /// El gnero Piriqueta es principalmente neotropical y comprende dos secciones: la seccin Piriqueta incluye las 41 especies nativas del continente americano, mientras que la seccin Africana est formada por una sola especie, P. capensis. El esquema de diferenciacin de las especies de Piriqueta es menos evidente que en el gnero Turnera; entre las especies americanas no hay caracteres fuertes, llamativos, que permitan estructurar filogenticamente el gnero. La organizacin floral es igual en todo el gnero Piriqueta: flores con las uas de los ptalos y la corona adnatas al tubo calicino; tambin los filamentos estn soldados brevemente en la base al tubo calicino. El pednculo y el pedicelo estn desarrollados y son libres. La semilla es reticulada en todas las especies. La pubescencia de las semillas est asociada en gran medida al indumento de los spalos. En las especies con semilla pilosiscula, los lbulos internos del cliz son pilosos, con bandas de pelos adpresos, ordenados, sedosos, por dentro de los bordes membranceos. En las especies con semilla glabra, los spalos internos son glabrescentes a ambos lados de la vena media. Pocos txones presentan una asociacin diferente de estos caracteres. Dos tercios del gnero presentan semilla pilosiscula y lbulos internos del cliz casi completamente pilosos. Ms de la mitad de dichas especies presentan pelos glandulares setiformes y frutos tuberculados. Algunas de estas especies poseen inflorescencias axilares, y entre ellas se cuentan las arbustivas. La distribucin de los caracteres mencionados hace suponer que en el gnero, son derivados o especializados los siguientes: la semilla glabra, los lbulos internos del cliz glabrescentes, la ausencia de pelos glandulares setiformes y el fruto liso. Las 41 especies americanas viven desde el sur de Estados Unidos hasta el norte de Argentina y Uruguay; 19 especies tienen distribucin local (endemismos), 16 ocupan reas restringidas, y solamente 6 ocupan reas amplias. Estas cifras pueden modificarse en el futuro, porque en general, Piriqueta es un gnero pobremente representado en los herbarios. Varias especies se conocen slo por el ejemplar tipo o por unos pocos especmenes. El centro de variacin del gnero est en las regiones montaosas de Bahia (Brasil), donde se encuentran 19 especies, de las cuales ocho son endmicas. Un segundo centro se encuentra en Paraguay y regiones vecinas, donde se hallan 11 especies, dos endmicas y siete de reas restringidas. Hay pocos recuentos cromosmicos de Piriqueta. El nmero bsico es x = 7; entre las especies estudiadas el 30% es poliploide. 
4393810| Plagiothecium, the only genus of the Plagiotheciaceae, is revised for all of Central America, the West Indies, and South America, and six species are recognized. Plagiothecium novo-granatense, with only scant decurrencies, occurs from Venezuela to Argentina and in southeastern Brazil. The closely related P. drepanophyllum has decurrencies more consistently present and occurs from Mexico to Colombia and in the Greater Antilles. Plagiothecium lucidum, recognized by its slender leaf apices and narrow leaf cells, occurs from Colombia to Tierra del Fuego with disjuncts in southeastern Brazil and the Dominican Republic. Plagiothecium conostegium, distinguished by its broad leaf cells and prominent decurrencies, occurs at high elevations in Mexico, Guatemala and the Dominican Republic, and in the northern Andes and Tierra del Fuego. Plagiothecium ovalifolium, with broadly acute leaves, is restricted in South America to southernmost Argentina and Chile. Plagiothecium falklandicum is recognized by julaceous plants and in South America is only in the Falkland Islands. All species are described and illustrated. Some taxa previously included in Plagiothecium are transferred to other genera: Isopterygium fontigenum (C. Mller) comb. nov. and Lepidopilidium regnellii (ngstrm) comb. nov. /// Plagiothecium, el nico gnero de las Plagiotheciaceae, ha sido revisado para Amrica Central, las Indias Occidentales y Amrica del Sur, y se han reconocido seis especies. Plagiothecium novo-granatense, con solamente decurrencias limitadas, ocurre de Venezuela a Argentina, y en el sudeste de Brasil. Plagiothecium drepanophyllum, muy relacionado con P. novo-granatense, tiene decurrencias ms frecuentes y ocurre de Mxico a Colombia y en las Antillas Mayores. Plagiothecium lucidum, reconocido por presentar en las hojas los apices delgados y clulas estrechas, ocurre de Colombia a Tierra del Fuego con disyunciones en el sudeste de Brasil y en la Repblica Dominicana. Plagiothecium conostegium, distinguido por las clulas amplias y decurrencias prominentes, ocurre en los Andes nrticos y Tierra del Fuego y en elevaciones altas de Mxico, Guatemala y la Repblica Dominicana. Plagiothecium ovalifolium, con hojas acutas, est restringido en la Amrica del Sur para la parte meridional de Argentina y Chile. Plagiothecium falklandicum est reconocido por plantas julaceas y en Amrica del Sur est solamente en las Islas Malvinas. Todas las especies estn descritas y ilustradas. Algunas taxa previamente incluidas en Plagiothecium han sido transferidas a otros gneros: Isopterygium fontigenum (C. Mller) comb. nov. y Lepidopilidium regnellii (ngstrm) comb. nov. 
4393866|A taxonomic revision of neotropical taxa in the order Caliciales sens. lat. excluding Sphaerophorus and comprising 51 species in 17 genera is presented. The order mainly contains lichenized species, but some species are parasymbiotic on lichens and others are saprophytic or parasitic on lichens or vascular plants. Most species have a passive spore dispersal and a well-developed mazaedium, i.e., an accumulation of mature spores remaining on or in the fruiting-bodies. The thallus in the species dealt with varies from well-developed and dactyliform in Acroscyphus to immersed in the substrate in several crustaceous genera. The order is not considered to be monophyletic. /// Se presenta una revisin taxanmica de los grupos neotropicales del orden Caliciales sens. lat. excluyendo Sphaerophorus y agrupando 51 especies en 17 gneros. El orden contiene principalmente especies liquenizadas, pero algunas especies son parasimbiticas sobre liquenes y otras saprofticas o parsitas sobre liquenes o plantes vasculares. La mayora de las especies tiene una dispersin pasiva de esporas y un macedio bien desarrollado, es decir, una acumulacin de esporas maduras que permanece sobre o dentro de los cuerpos fructferos. El talo en las especies se presenta con diferencias desde bien desarrollado y dactiliforme en Acroscyphus o sumergido en el sustrato en varios gneros crustceos. El orden no es considerado monofiltico.
4393956| A taxonomic monograph of the American genera of Proteaceae is presented with a systematic treatment of eight genera and 85 native species and two introduced species of Grevillea. It includes introductory material about the taxonomic history, systematic position, anatomy, biogeography, and conservation status of the rarer species. Full descriptions, nomenclature, identification keys, at least one illustration of each genus, and distribution maps of all species are provided. The status of seven taxa is changed. /// Esta monografia presenta os oito gneros e 85 espcies Americanos de Proteaceae e duas espcies introduzidas de Grevillea. Inclui tambm informao sobre histria taxonmica, posio sistemtica, anatomia, biogeografia e o estado de conservao das espcies mais raras. So includas descries, nomenclatura, chaves para identificao, e pelo menos uma ilustrao de cada gnero, e mapas de distibuio de todas as espcies. Sete txa tm sua posio taxnomica modificada. 
4393905| The present monograph includes the revisions of genera of the tribes Moreae and Artocarpeae, the genus Dorstenia, corrections and additions to genera treated in Fl. Neotrop. Monogr. 7, "Brosimeae," presently included in the tribe Dorstenieae, and "Olmedieae," presently Castilleae. They are preceded by an introduction to the family Moraceae and supplemented with brief introductions to the tribe Ficeae and the genus Ficus. The entities treated for the first time for Flora Neotropica comprise nine genera: Bagassa (1 sp.), Batocarpus (3 spp.), Clarisia (3 spp.), Dorstenia (46 spp.), Maclura (2 spp.), Morus (2 spp.), Poulsenia (1 sp.), Sorocea (14 spp.), and Trophis (5 spp.) - 77 species in total. Eight new species and two new subspecies were discovered for these genera during the preparation of the monograph, as well as a second yet-undescribed species for Poulsenia. This group of genera comprises many widespread and/or common species for which numerous collections have been examined and listed. However, in Dorstenia, many species are very limited in their distribution and the number of specimens examined is often limited to a few or sometimes only one. The group of the nine revised genera is in many respects highly diverse. For the group of genera treated in Monograph 7 the additions and corrections include: revised or extended descriptions of several species and subspecies, changed descriptions due to fusion of species previously recognized as distinct, indications and documentation for range extensions, some new combinations, full treatments of taxa discovered since the publication of Monograph 7 (12 species or subspecies), supplementary comments on genera and species, and partly or entirely revised keys to species for several genera. For this second group 70 species (in the nine genera) are recognized at present. The introduction to the family includes chapters dealing with the taxonomic history, morphology, pollination and dispersal, distribution and ecology, classification, diversification, use, and conservation. The genus Ficus (awaiting revision) is to some extent included in the introduction, in particular in the chapters or paragraphs dealing with habit, pollination, and distribution; moreover, a description of and a brief account of this genus are provided. In the present contribution, the new combinations Clarisia Ruiz & Pavn sect. Acanthinophyllum (Allemo) C. C. Berg, Pseudolmedia Trcul sect. Olmediopsis (Karsten) C. C. Berg, and Naucleopsis ulei subsp. amara (Ducke) C. C. Berg are made, and the new taxon Naucleopsis ulei (Warburg) Ducke subsp. subandina C. C. Berg is described. /// La presente monografia incluye las revisiones de los gneros de las tribus Moreae y Artocarpeae, el gnero Dorstenia, correcciones y adiciones a los gneros presentados en la Fl. Neotrop. Monogr. 7, "Brosimeae," actualmente incluida en la tribu Dorstenieae y "Olmedieae," actualmente Castilleae, precedidas por una introduccin a la familia Moraceae y complementadas con breves introducciones a la tribu Ficeae y al gnero Ficus. Los grupos tratados por primera vez en Flora Neotropica comprenden nueve gneros: Bagassa (1 spp.), Batocarpus (3 spp.), Clarisia (3 spp.), Dorstenia (46 spp.), Maclura (2 spp.), Morus (2 spp.), Poulsenia (1 spp.), Sorocea (14 spp.) y Trophis (5 spp.) - 77 especies en total. Ocho nuevas especies y dos nuevas subespecies fueron descubiertas para estos gneros durante la preparacin de la monografa, as como tambin una segunda especie, an no descrita de Poulsenia. Este grupo de gneros comprende muchas especies ampliamente distribuidas y/o comunes de las cuales se han examinado y se citan muchas colecciones. Sin embargo, en Dorstenia, muchas especies tienen una distribucin muy limitada y el nmero de muestras examinadas se limita a menudo a pocas y algunas veces solamente a una. El grupo de los nueve gneros revisados es, en muchos aspectos, extremadamente diverso. Para el grupo de gneros presentados en la Monografa 7, las adiciones y correcciones incluyen: descripciones revisadas o aumentadas de varias especies y subespecies, cambios en las descripciones debido a fusin de especies previamente tratadas como diferentes, indicaciones y documentacin para extensiones en los rangos, algunas combinaciones nuevas, tratamientos completos de taxa descubiertos luego de la publicacin de la Monografa 7 (doce especies o subespecies), observaciones complementarias acerca de los gneros y las especies, se revisan parcial o totalmente las claves, para las especies y varios gneros. Para este segundo grupo se reconocen en la actualidad 70 especies en nueve gneros. La introduccin a la familia incluye captulos acerca de la historia taxonmica, morfologa, polinizacin y dispersin, distribucin y ecologia, clasificacin, diversificacin, usos y conservacin. El gnero Ficus (an por revisar) est incluido hasta cierto punto en la introduccin, en particular en captulos o prrafos que se refieren al hbito, polinizacin y distribucin; adems, se provee una descripcin y una pequea relacin de este gnero. En la presente contribucin, se hacen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: Clarisia Ruiz & Pavn sect. Acanthinophyllum (Allemo) C. C. Berg, Pseudolmedia Trcul sect. Olmediopsis (Karsten) C. C. Berg, and Naucleopsis ulei (Warburg) Ducke subsp. amara (Ducke) C. C. Berg y se describe el nuevo taxon Naucleopsis ulei (Warburg) Ducke subsp. subandina C. C. Berg. /// A presente monografia inclui revises dos gneros das tribos Moreae e Artocarpeae, do gnero Dorstenia, correes e acrscimos para os gneros tratados na Fl. Neotrop. Monogr. 7, "Brosimeae" atualmente incluida na tribo Dorstenieae e "Olmedieae," atualmente Castilleae. So todas precedidas por uma introduo para a famlia Moraceae e complementadas com breve introdues para a tribo Ficeae e para o gnero Ficus. As entidadas tratadas pela primeira vez para a Flora Neotrpica abrangem nove gneros: Bagassa (1 sp.), Batocarpus (3 spp.), Clarisia (3 spp.), Dorstenia (46 spp.), Maclura (2 spp.), Morus (2 spp.), Poulsenia (1 sp.), Sorocea (14 spp.) e Trophis (5 spp.) - num total de 77 espcies. Durante a preparao da monografia foram descobertos para estes gneros oito novas espcies e duas novas subespcies, assim como uma segunda espcie para Poulsenia, ainda no descrita. Este grupo de gneros compreende muitas espcies comuns e/ou amplamente distribudas, para as quais foram examinadas e listadas numerosas colees. Todavia, em Dorstenia, muitas espcies possuem distribuio limitada e o nmero de amostras examinadas foi reduzido ou somente um. O grupo dos nove gneros revisados , sob mltiplos aspectos, altamente diversificado. Os acrscimos e correes para o grupo dos gneros tratados na Monografia 7 incluem: descries revisadas ou ampliadas de vrias espcies e subespcies, descries alteradas por causa da fuso de espcies previamente reconhecidas como distintas, indicaes e documentao para a extenso de ocorncia, algumas novas combinaes, tratamento completo dos taxa descobertos desde a publicao da Monografia 7 (doze espcies e subespcies), comentrios suplementares para os gneros e espcies e chaves para as espcies de vrios gneros parcial ou inteiramente revisados. Para este segundo grupo so reconhecidas atualmente 70 espcies (nos nove gneros). A introduo para a famlia inclui captulos com abordagem da histria taxonmica, morfologia, polinizao e disperso, distribuio geogrfica e ecologia, classificao, diversificao, uso e conservao. O gnero Ficus (aguardando reviso)  abordado com alguma extenso na introduo, em particular nos captulos ou pargrafos que tratam sobre o hbito, polinizao e distribuio; alm disso, so acrescentadas uma descrio e uma sntese desse gnero. Na presente contribuio so feitas as novas combinaes Clarisia sect. Acanthinophyllum (Allemo) C. C. Berg, Pseudolmedia Trcul sect. Olmediopsis (Karsten) C. C. Berg e Naucleopsis (Warburg) Ducke subsp. amara (Ducke) C. C. Berg, e  descrito o novo txon Naucleopsis ulei subsp. subandina C. C. Berg. 
4393871| Ten species and one variety of Roystonea are recognized from in and around the Caribbean basin. Species are circumscribed on the bases of morphological characteristics. A cladistic analysis suggests that some previously recognized subgenera and sections were artificial or metaphyletic. The following nomenclatural changes are made: Roystonea oleracea var. jenmanii comb. nov. and R. maisiana stat. nov. /// Se reconozen diez especies y una variedad de Roystonea en la cuenca del Caribe y reas circumvecinas. Las especies se circumscriben en base a sus caractersticas morfolgicas. Un analysis cladstico indica que algunos subgeneros y secciones previamente propuestos son artificiales y parafylticos o metafylticos. Se hacen los siguentes cambios nomenclaturales: Roystonea oleracea var. jenmanii comb. nov. y R. maisiana stat. nov. 
4393914| Smut fungi in the Neotropics are represented here by 227 species in 34 genera. Fresh material and herbarium specimens were used for the investigation of sori, teliospores, basidia, and sterile fungal cells by light microscopy. The ornamentation of the teliospores is documented by scanning electron microscopical pictures. The neotropical smut fungi infect 364 different species of host plants, of which about 55% belong to the Poaceae and 17% belong to the Cyperaceae. The remaining host species belong to 18 different families of angiosperms. One new species, Jamesdicksonia caribensis, two new names, Sporisorium paspalicola and Ustilago hilariae-henningsii, as well as 12 new combinations are proposed: Jamesdicksonia major, Jamesdicksonia sporoboli, Sporisorium andropogonis-hirtifolii, Sporisorium ellisii, Sporisorium goyazanum, Sporisorium leucostachys, Sporisorium panicipetrosi, Sporisorium peruvianum, Sporisorium seymourianum, Sporisorium tepicense, Sporisorium vesiculosum, and Ustanciosporium dichromenae. Seven neotypes and 13 lectotypes are designated. /// Carbones del neotrpico cuentan aqu con 227 especies en 34 gneros. Material fresco y muestras de herbario formaron la base para investigar los soros, telisporas, basidios y clulas estriles del hongo con microscopa de luz. La ornamentacin de las telisporas se documenta con fotos de microscopa electrnica de barrido. Los carbones del neotrpico infectan 364 especies de plantas hospederas diferentes, de las cuales aproximadamente 55% son gramneas y 17% ciperceas. Las dems plantas hospederas pertenecen a 18 familias diferentes de angiospermas. Se presentan una especie nueva, Jamesdicksonia caribensis, dos nombres nuevos, Sporisorium paspalicola y Ustilago hilariae-henningsii, y 12 combinaciones nuevas: Jamesdicksonia major, Jamesdicksonia sporoboli, Sporisorium andropogonis-hirtifolii, Sporisorium ellisii, Sporisorium goyazanum, Sporisorium leucostachys, Sporisorium panici-petrosi, Sporisorium peruvianum, Sporisorium seymourianum, Sporisorium tepicense, Sporisorium vesiculosum, y Ustanciosporium dichromenae. Se designan 7 neotipos y 13 lectotipos. 
4393845| The Lejeuneaceae (Hepaticae) are represented in the New World by an estimated 50 genera and several hundreds of species. This monograph treats the 22 New World genera of the tribes Ptychantheae and Brachiolejeuneae. Of about three hundred previously described species, 65 species have been retained. They are mostly epiphytes of humid tropical forests at low or mid elevations. Most of the species are restricted to the neotropics and the greatest species diversity is found in northwestern South America and the Guianas. Dry regions have only few species. Over 25% of the species are limited to undisturbed rain forest and about 10% are threatened with extinction due to deforestation. The species of tribes Ptychantheae and Brachiolejeuneae are characterized by undivided underleaves and have traditionally been classified in the subfamily "Ptychanthoideae" or "Holostipae." In this treatment the Ptychantheae are retained in the Ptychanthoideae, but the Brachiolejeuneae are moved to the subfamily Lejeuneoideae, with which they share many unique sprophytic features: thin-walled capsules, elaters with rudimentary spirals, decussate tetrads, rectangular spores, etc. In the Ptychantoideae the capsule walls are thickened, the elaters have a distinct spiral, and the spores are isodiametric and arranged in tetrahedral tetrads. The sporophytic differences are correlated with a remarkably different spore-discharge process in the two groups. In the Ptychantheae capsule dehiscence is violent and spore discharge explosive. In Brachiolejeuneae it is much more gentle. The sporophytic features of the Ptychantheae are shared with Frullania and are interpreted as a xeromorphic adaptation. The better drought resistance of spores and sporelings and the frequently convoluted leaves of the taxa of Ptychantheae are further xeromorphic features of this group. Generic relationships within the Ptychantheae and the Brachiolejeuneae have been assessed by means of a cladistic analysis of the genera recognized world-wide. The cladograms show the existence of three clades in the Ptychantheae and two in the Brachiolejeuneae, which are ranked as subtribes. The use of the "genus complex" as a unit of generic classification in the Lejeuneaceae has been abandoned. The following new names and combinations are proposed: Acanthocoleus aberrans var.laevis, Archilejeunea bischleriana, A. ludoviciana subsp. ludoviciana, A. ludoviciana subsp. porelloides, A. porelloides subsp. chocoensis, Brachiolejeunea sect. Phyllorhizae, Brachiolejeunea conduplicata, Lejeuneaceae tribe Nipponolejeuneae, Lejeuneaceae subtribe Acrolejeuninae, Lejeuneaceae subtribe Brachiolejeuninae and Lejeuneaceae subtribe Stictolejeuninae. /// Las Lejeuneaceae (Hepaticae) estn representadas en el Nuevo Mundo por aproximadamente 50 gneros y algunos cientos de especies. La presente monografa trata los 22 gneros de la tribu Ptychantheae y Brachiolejeuneae del Nuevo Mundo. De aproximadamente 300 especies descritas anteriormente, 65 han sido retenidas en este trabajo. Ellas son en su mayor parte epfitas de la selva hmeda tropical. La mayor parte de las especies son restringidas a los neotrpicos y la mayor diversidad de especies se encuentra en el noroeste de Suramrica y en Guianas. Regiones secas poseen pocas especies. Por encima del 25% de las especies estn limitadas a selva no intervenida y cerca del 10% estn amenazadas de extincin debido a la deforestacin. Las especies de las tribus Ptychantheae y Brachiolejeuneae se caracterizan por tener anfigastros no divididos y pertenecen tradicionalmente a la subfamilia "Ptychanthoideae" o "Holostipae." En este trabajo las Ptychantheae estn clasificados en las Ptychanthoideae pero las Brachiolejeuneae estn trasladadas a la subfamilia Lejeuneoideae con la cual comparten muchos caracteres nicos del esporofito: cpsulas de pared delgada, elateras con espiral rudimentario, tetrados decusados, esporas rectangulares, etc. En Ptychanthoideae las cpsulas tienen paredes gruesas, elateras con espiral, tetrados tetrahdricos, esporas isodiamtricas, etc. Las diferencias esporofticas estn relacionadas con una notable diferencia en el proceso de descarga de esporas. En las Ptychantheae la dehiscencia de la cpsula es violenta y se presenta una explosiva descarga de esporas. En Brachiolejeuneae esta es mucho mas suave. Los caracteres esporofticos de las Ptychantheae se encuentran tambin en Frullania y son interpretados como una adaptacin xeromrfica. La mejor resistencia a la sequa de las esporas y la frecuencia de hojas convolutas de las Ptychantheae son adems rasgos xeromrficos de este grupo. Relaciones genricas dentro de las Ptychantheae y las Brachiolejeuneae han sido evaluadas por medio de anlisis cladstico. Los cladogramas muestran la existencia de tres clades en las Ptychantheae y dos en las Brachiolejeuneae, las cuales son clasificadas como subtribus. El uso del "genus complex" como una unidad de clasificacin genrica en las Lejeuneaceae ha sido abandonada. Se propusieron los siguientes nuevos nombres y combinaciones: Acanthocoleus aberrans var.laevis, Archilejeunea bischlerianan, A. ludoviciana subsp. ludoviciana, A. ludoviciana subsp. porelloides, A. porelloides subsp. chocoensis, Brachiolejeunea sect. Phyllorhizae, Brachiolejeunea conduplicata, Lejeuneaceae tribe Nipponolejeuneae, Lejeuneaceae subtribe Acrolejeuninae, Lejeuneaceae subtribe Brachiolejeuninae y Lejeuneaceae subtribe Stictolejeuninae. 
4393887| The tribe Rondeletieae, as here circumscribed, is a predominantly neotropical group of trees, shrubs, and rarely herbs. In the Neotropics it is represented by approximately 42 genera and 340 species. The present volume is the first part of a series in which the monographic treatment of the neotropical Rondeletieae is planned. For this reason, a general definition and a taxonomic survey of this group, as well as a list of all the genera, their approximate number of species and their distribution, and a key to all the genera are included. This study originated as a revision of the tribe Condamineeae (sensu Hooker), a group of predominantly neotropical shrubs and trees (except Pinckneya from North America, and Bikkia and Badusa from the South Pacific), usually delimited by having valvate corollas and many-seeded capsules. The Condamineeae were subdivided by Hooker into three subtribes: Condamineinae, Portlandiinae, and Pinckneyinae. As a result of phylogenetic analyses using morphological characters, the Condamineeae (sensu Hooker) has been shown to be paraphyletic. The genera of the Portlandiinae have been transferred to the newly amended tribe Catesbaeeae sensu Delprete, and genera of the Condamineinae and Pinckneyinae transferred to the Rondeletieae, resulting in a complete dismantling of the Condamineeae. The Sipaneeae (Sipanea, Sipanaeopsis, Limnosipanea, and Neobertiera) are included in a broad delimitation of the Rondeletieae sensu Delprete. Additionally, Phyllomelia (with bi-seeded indehiscent fruits, i.e., pseudosamaras), recently treated as genus incertae sedis by Robbrecht, is also included in the Rondeletieae s.l., and believed to be related to Mazaea. The neotropical genera treated in the present monograph are those of the subtribes Condamineinae and Pinckneyinae, now included in the Rondeletieae, plus a few related genera: Rustia, Tresanthera, Condaminea, Picardaea, Pogonopus, Chimarrhis, Dioicodendron, Parachimarrhis, Molopanthera, and Dolichodelphys. Forty-six taxa, 40 species, and 6 varieties, are recognized in the 10 genera listed above. /// La tribu Rondeletieae, como est aqu circunscrita, es un grupo predominantemente neotropical de rboles, arbustos y raramente hierbas. En el Neotrpico la tribu est representada por aproximadamente 42 gneros y 340 especies. El presente volumen es la primera parte de una serie en la cual se est programando el tratamiento monogrfico de los gneros neotropicales de las Rondeletieae. Por lo tanto, se incluyen aqu una descripcin de la tribu, un listado de todos los gneros, con nmero aproximado de especies y su distribucin geogrfica, y una clave para todos los gneros neotropicales de este grupo. El presente estudio se origin a partir de una revisin de la tribu Condamineeae (sensu Hooker), un grupo predominantemente neotropical (a excepcin de Pinckneya, endmico de Norte Amrica, y Bikkia y Badusa endmicos del Pacfico Sur) de rboles y arbustos, usualmente caracterizado por corolas valvadas y cpsulas con muchas semillas. Las Condamineeae fueron divididas por Hooker en tres subtribus: Condamineinae, Portlandiinae y Pinckneyinae. Como resultado de un anlisis filogentico usando datos morfolgicos, se demostr que la tribu Condamineeae (sensu Hooker) es un grupo parafiltico. Los gneros de la subtribu Portlandiinae fueron transferidos a la tribu Catesbaeeae, recientemente enmendada por Delprete, y los gneros de las Condamineinae y Pinckneyinae fueron transferidos a las Rondeletieae, causando as el completo desmembramiento de la tribu Condamineeae. La tribu Sipaneeae (Sipanea, Sipanaeopsis, Limnosipanea and Neobertiera) est tambin incluida en una ms amplia delimitacin de las Rondeletieae sensu Delprete. Adicionalmente, Phyllomelia (con frutos indehiscentes y con dos semillas, i.e., pseudosamaras), recentemente tratado como genus incertae sedis por Robbrecht, es tambin incluido en las Rondeletieae s.l. y certamente relacionado con Mazaea. Los gneros neotropicales tratados en la presente monografia, tradicionalmente includos en las Condamineineae y Pinckneyinae y ahora transferidos a las Rondeletieae (a los cuales se aaden unos gneros relacionados), son: Rustia, Tresanthera, Condaminea, Picardaea, Pogonopus, Chimarrhis, Dioicodendron, Parachimarrhis, Molopanthera y Dolichodelphys. Cuarenta y seis taxa (40 especies y 6 variedades) son descritos en los 10 gneros anteriormente listados. 
4393884| The genus Pavonia (Malvaceae) is probably the largest genus of its family, containing approximately 250 species, of which 224 are here recognized from the Americas. The New World species are subdivided into five subgenera, which are further subdivided into 15 sections and seven subsections to better portray relationships within this very diverse genus. Pavonia subgen. Pavonia includes 114 species; P. subgen. Asterochlamys, 32 species; P. subgen. Malache, 18 species; P. subgen. Typhalea, 34 species; and P. subgen. Goetheoides, 26 species. As in Malvaceae generally, the flowers in Pavonia are monadelphous, with a central staminal column and usually numerous anthers, with five petals inserted at the base of the staminal column and five sepals forming a more or less gamosepalous calyx. The flower is subtended by an involucel (or epicalyx) made up of from 4 to 24 bracts. Fruit characters are important in distinguishing the subgenera, including spines, rugosities, and other ornamentation; the relative length of the carpel and the column to which it is attached; and whether the mature carpel is dehiscent or indehiscent. An unusual feature of Pavonia (in common with the other seven genera of the tribe Malvavisceae) is the possession of 10 styles and stigmas in the flower but only 5 carpels in the fruit. Although Pavonia is predominantly tropical, a few species reach into the temperate zones in the southern United States and in northern Argentina. Many species are of limited distribution, whereas a few are widespread and sometimes weedy. They occupy a wide variety of habitats, ranging from mangrove associations to rain forests to seasonally dry deciduous forests to more open (often dry) environments. The base chromosome number for Pavonia is x = 7, with reported counts ranging from 2n = 28 (tetraploid) to 2n = 112 (16-ploid), with known ploidy levels of 4x, 6x, 8x, and 16x. The following species are herein described as new: Pavonia aschersonioides, P. atlantica, P. aurelii, P. clarkii, P. cristobaliae, P. decora, P. formosa, P. froesii, P. heterotricha, P. hirticalyx, P. immitis, P. krapovickasii, P. longitricha, P. longitudinalis, P. nayarensis, P. neei, P. paransis, P. pedersenii, P. pseudolaxifolia, P. quadrifida, P. rudis, P. sepioides, P. spuria, and P. vanii. In addition, the following new combinations are made: P. benadirensis (based on Marconia benadirensis Mattei), P. cauliflora (based on Goethea cauliflora Nees), P. glaziovii (based on Codonochlamys glaziovii Ulbrich), P. goetheoides (based on Blanchetiastrum goetheoides Hassler), P. mogotensis (based on Hibiscus mogotensis Carabia), P. ramosissima (based on Pavonia sepium var. ramosissima Arechavaleta), P. setifer (based on Hibiscus setifer Presl), P. strictiflora (based on Goethea strictiflora Hooker), and P. tiliifolia (based on Codonochlamys tiliifolia Ulbrich). New names in infrageneric rank are proposed as follows: Pavonia sect. Albae, P. subgen. Asterochlamys, P. sect. Carcerariae, P. sect. Collicolae, P. subsect. Conditiflorae, P. subsect. Cordifoliae, P. sect. Diathericae, P. subsect. Hastifoliae, P. sect. Laminares, P. subgen. Malache, P. subsect. Rubriflorae, and P. sect. Varians. /// El gnero Pavonia probablemente representa el gnero ms grande de la familia Malvaceae, abarcando alrededor de 250 especies, de las cuales 224 aqu reconozco para las Amricas. Las especies del Nuevo Mundo se colocan en cinco subgneros, los cuales se dividen en 15 secciones y siete subsecciones, con el fin de mejor dilucidar las interrelaciones dentro de este gnero tan diverso. Pavonia subgen. Pavonia abarca 114 especies; P. subgen. Asterochlamys, 32 especies; P. subgen. Malache, 18 especies; P. subgen. Typhalea, 34 especies; y P. subgen. Goetheoides, 26 especies. Al igual que las malvceas en general, las flores de Pavonia son monadelfas, con una columna estaminal central y usualmente con anteras numerosas, con cinco ptalos insertos en la base de la columna estaminal, y con cinco sepalos formando un cliz ms o menos gamospalo. Un calculo (o epicliz) abraza cada flor y contiene desde cuatro hasta 24 brcteas. Los caracteres de los frutos, tales como las espinas, rugosidades, y otros tipos de ornamentacin; la longitud del carpelo en relacin a la de la columna adjunta; y la naturaleza dehiscente o no del carpelo maduro, son importantes para distinguir a los subgneros. Una peculiaridad notable de Pavonia (junto con los siete otros gneros de la tribu Malvavisceae) es la presencia de diez estilos y estigmas en la flor pero solamente cinco carpelos en el fruto. Aunque la mayora de las especies de Pavonia son de distribucin tropical, unas pocas llegan hasta las zonas templadas del sur de los Estados Unidos y el norte de la Repblica Argentina. Muchas especies son de distribucin restringida, mientras que unas pocas son de distribucin amplia y a veces llegan a ser malezas. Se encuentran en diversos habitats, desde manglares y selvas perennifolias hasta bosques deciduos y en ambientes ms abiertos (a menudo ridos). El nmero cromosmico base de Pavonia es x = 7; los recuentos reportados, desde 2n = 28 (tetraploide) hasta 2n = 112 (16-ploide), representan niveles de ploidia de 4x, 6x, 8x, y 16x. Se describe las siguientes especies como nuevas: Pavonia aschersonioides, P. atlantica, P. aurelii, P. clarkii, P. cristobaliae, P. decora, P. formosa, P. froesii, P. heterotricha, P. hirticalyx, P. immitis, P. krapovickasii, P. longitricha, P. longitudinalis, P. nayarensis, P. neei, P. paransis, P. pedersenii, P. pseudolaxifolia, P. quadrifida, P. rudis, P. sepioides, P. spuria y P. vanii. Adems, se proponen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: P. benadirensis (basado en Marconia benadirensis Mattei), P. cauliflora (basado en Goethea cauliflora Nees), P. glaziovii (basado en Codonochlamys glaziovii Ulbrich), P. goetheoides (basado en Blanchetiastrum goetheoides Hassler), P. mogotensis (basado en Hibiscus mogotensis Carabia), P. ramosissima (basado en Pavonia sepium var. ramosissima Arechavaleta), P. setifer (basado en Hibiscus setifer Presl), P. strictiflora (basado en Goethea strictiflora Hooker) y P. tiliifolia (basado en Codonochlamys tiliifolia Ulbrich). Nombres nuevos en rango infragenrico se proponen como en siguiente: Pavonia sect. Albae, P. subgen. Asterochlamys, P. sect. Carcerariae, P. sect. Collicolae, P. subsect. Conditiflorae, P. subsect. Cordifoliae, P. sect. Diathericae, P. subsect. Hastifoliae, P. sect. Laminares, P. subgen. Malache, P. subsect. Rubriflorae y P. sect. Varians. 
4393878| The lichenized genus Syncesia is monographed. Seventeen species are recognized, all fructiferous. Imperfect taxa are unknown. Two new species are described: Syncesia leprobola and S. rhizomorpha. Three species are transferred from Schismatomma: Syncesia albiseda (Nylander) Tehler, S. flavescens (Nylander) Tehler, and S. psaroleuca (Nylander) Tehler. Twelve species are transferred from Chiodecton: Syncesia byssina (Vainio) Tehler, S. decussans (Nylander) Tehler, S. depressa (Fe) Tehler, S. effusa (Fe) Tehler, S. farinacea (Fe) Tehler, S. glyphysoides (Fe) Tehler, S. graphica (Fries) Tehler, S. hawaiiensis (Zahlbruckner) Tehler, S. intercedens (Mller) Tehler, S. mollis (Mller) Tehler, S. myrticola (Fe) Tehler, and S. sulphurea (Vainio) Tehler. Chiodecton lacteum Fe, C. subfarinaceum Stirton, and Schismatomma leucopsarum Nylander are dubious taxa and S. usambarense (Mller) Zahlbruckner is synonymous with Sigridea albella. Most Syncesia species are restricted to the neotropical region, with some species reaching southern United States and Hawaii. Four species are non-neotropical, with one restricted to southwestern Europe, two to Tanzania, and one to Australasia. Syncesia is bound mainly to dry areas of the tropics and subtropics. A key, descriptions, and distribution maps are supplied. A cladistic analysis based on morphological data and chemical data was performed, and a phylogenetic hypothesis of species relationships is proposed. /// Este es una monografa sobre el lichenizado gnero Syncesia. Diez y siete especies son reconosidas, todas frutales. Imperfectos taxones desconocidos. Se describen dos nuevas especies: Syncesia leprobola y S. rhizomorpha. Tres especies se transfieren a Schismatomma: Syncesia albiseda (Nylander) Tehler, S. flavescens (Nylander) Tehler y S. psaroleuca (Nylander) Tehler. Desde Chiodecton se transfieren doce especies: Syncesia byssina (Vainio) Tehler, S. decussans (Nylander) Tehler, S. depressa (Fe) Tehler, S. effusa (Fe) Tehler, S. farinacea (Fe) Tehler, S. glyphysoides (Fe) Tehler, S. graphica (Fries) Tehler, S. hawaiiensis (Zahlbruckner) Tehler, S. intercedens (Mller) Tehler, S. mollis (Mller) Tehler, S. myrticola (Fe) Tehler y S. sulphurea (Vainio) Tehler. Chiodecton lacteum Fe, C. subfarinaceum Stirton y Schismatomma leucopsarum Nylander son taxones dudosos y S. usambarense (Mller) Zahlbruckner es sinnimo de Sigridea albella. La mayor parte de las especies de Syncesia son limitadas a la regin neotropical y algunas de ellas se extienden hasta el sur de los Estados Unidos y Hawaii. Cuatro especies son non-neotropicas, una especie limitada al sudoeste de Europa, dos a Tanzania y una a Australasia. Syncesia esta en su mayor parte restringida a las reas secas de las regines tropicales y subtropicales. Se ofrecen un clave, descripcines, y mapas de distribucin. Se hace un analysis cladstico basado en datos morpholgicos y qumicos, y se presenta una hiptesis filogentica. 
25660972|Sipman, H. J. M. (Botanic Garden & Botanical Museum, Free University, Koenigin-Luise-Str. 6-8, D-14195 Berlin, Germany, h.sipman@bgbm.org). Elix, J. A. (Department of Chemistry, Building 33, Australian National University, Canberra ACT 0200, Australia, John.Elix@anu.edu.au). Nash III, T. H. (School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, 85287-4501, USA, tom.nash@asu.edu). Hypotrachyna (Parmeliaceae, Lichenized Fungi). Flora Neotropica Monograph 104: 1179. 2009.A total of 140 species of Hypotrachyna (Parmeliaceae, lichenized fungi) are recognized from the Neotropics. This is well over 50% of the species known worldwide in this primarily tropical genus and includes 85 species thus far known only from the Neotropics. Keys are provided; synonymy, descriptions, secondary chemistry, distribution maps, habitats, and a selection of herbarium voucher specimens are given for each species. The following species are described as new to science: H. aguirrei Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. ahtiana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. alectorialiorum Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. anzeana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. brevidactylata Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. cerradensis Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. convexa R. P. Baayen & H. Rugenbrink ex Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. cunhaensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. flavospinulosa Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. fletcheri Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. hafellneri Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. halei Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. isolopezii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. kalbii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. klauskalbii Fletcher ex Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. mattickiana Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. microblastella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. neocrenata Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. neoscytodes Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. norlopezii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. noskeiae Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. protocetrarica Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. protochlorina Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. protoformosana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. pseudolopezii Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. salreducens Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sanjosensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sinuosella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sordidella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. spinulosa Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. subformosana Hale ex Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. tibellii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. tombadorensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. vainioi Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. virensica Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. wirthii Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, and H. zamoraensis Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash. Many previously described taxa are reduced to synonymy. Sipman, H. J. M. (Botanic Garden & Botanical Museum, Free University, Koenigin-Luise-Str. 6-8, D-14195 Berlin, Germany, h.sipman@bgbm.org). Elix, J. A. (Department of Chemistry, Building 33, Australian National University, Canberra ACT 0200, Australia, John.Elix@anu.edu.au). Nash III, T. H. (School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, 85287-4501, USA, tom.nash@asu.edu). Hypotrachyna (Parmeliaceae, Lichenized Fungi). Flora Neotropica Monograph 104: 1179. 2009.Un total de 140 especies del gnero Hypotrachyna estan reconocidos del Neotrpico. Este figura es bien mas que 50% de los especies conocidos del mundo en este gnero principalmente tropical, y incluye 85 especies conocidos hasta ahora solamente del Neotrpico. Claves para las especies estan includios. Se presentan sinonima, descripcines, qumica secundaria, mapas de distribucin, informacin sobre los habitates, y una seleccin de los especimenes de herbario investigados para cada especie. Los siguientes especies son descritos come nuevos para la sciencia: H. aguirrei Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. ahtiana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. alectorialiorum Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. anzeana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. brevidactylata Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. cerradensis Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. convexa R. P. Baayen & H. Rugenbrink ex Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. cunhaensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. flavospinulosa Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. fletcheri Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. hafellneri Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. halei Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. isolopezii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. kalbii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. klauskalbii Fletcher ex Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. mattickiana Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. microblastella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. neocrenata Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. neoscytodes Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. norlopezii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. noskeiae Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. protocetrarica Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. protochlorina Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. protoformosana Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. pseudolopezii Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. salreducens Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sanjosensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sinuosella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. sordidella Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. spinulosa Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. subformosana Hale ex Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. tibellii Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. tombadorensis Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. vainioi Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, H. virensica Elix, T. H. Nash & Sipman, H. wirthii Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash, and H. zamoraensis Sipman, Elix & T. H. Nash. Varios taxones son reducidos al la sinonima.
4393881| A revision of the pines native to Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean is presented. Of the 47 species recognized, most are endemic to this region, but a number extend into Mexico from the United States, while P. elliottii var. densa is included because it occurs on the Florida Keys in the Caribbean. The extensive synonymy has been largely resolved by (lecto-)typification. Some taxonomic and nomenclatural problems have been addressed in previous papers; only one new combination, P. arizonica var. cooperi (C. E. Blanco) Farjon, is proposed here. All species are fully illustrated. The introduction covers all aspects of pines that are of interest to both taxonomists and more general readers, and includes specialist contributions on wood anatomy (I. D. Gourlay), pollen morphology (M. H. Kurmann), and taxonomy based on monoterpenes (J. S. Birks). /// Se presenta una revisin de los pinos nativos de Mxico, Centroamrica y el Caribe. La mayora de las 47 especies reconocidas son endmicas a sta regin, pero algunas se extienden hacia Mxico desde los Estados Unidos, y se incluye P. elliotii var. densa porque se encuentra en las islas de Florida en el Caribe. La sinonima muy extensiva en el gnero, se ha resuelto en gran parte por medio de (lecto-) tipificacin. Algunos problemas taxonmicos y de nomenclatura fueron discutidos en varias publicaciones anteriores; se propone aqu solamente una combinacin nueva: P. arizonica var. cooperi (C. E. Blanco) Farjon. Todas las especies estn ampliamente grabadas. Los captulos preliminares incluyen todos los aspectos de los pinos de inters para taxnomos tanto para los lectores mas generales, e incluyen contribuciones escritas por especialistas sobre anatoma de la madera (I. D. Gourlay), morfologa del polen (M. H. Kurmann) y aspectos taxonmicos con relacin al anlisis de monoterpenoides (J. S. Birks). 
4393875| A taxonomic revision of the neotropical genus Allagoptera Nees (Palmae: Arecoideae: Cocoeae: Butiinae) is presented. The systematic position of Allagoptera is discussed and four species are recognized. The vegetative and floral anatomy, morphology, chemotaxonomy, phylogeny, and evolution, ecology and distribution, uses, and conservation status of the genus Allagoptera are reviewed. This genus typically has an acaulescent habit and is distributed in open savannas and related types of vegetation between sea level and 1200 m elevation. One species is endemic to northeastern Brazil, while the other three have a wider distribution in South America. /// El presente trabajo es una revisin taxonmica del gnero neotropical Allagoptera Nees (Palmae: Arecoideae: Cocoeae: Butiinae) en el cual se reconocen cuatro especies. Se analiza la posicin sistemtica de Allagoptera. Se resean las caractersticas del gnero en relacin a su anatoma vegetativa y reproductiva, morfologa, quimiotaxonoma, filogenia y evolucin, ecologa y distribucin, as como usos y estado de conservacin. Las especies de Allagoptera, de hbito tpicamente acaule, se encuentran en reas abiertas de sabana y cerrado entre el nivel del mar y 1200 m de elevacin. Una de las especies es endmica del noreste de Brasil, mientras que las tres restantes tienen distribucin ms amplia en Amrica del Sur. 
4393836| Leucophanes the only genus in the Leucophanaceae is revised for Central America, the Caribbean and South America. The most characteristic feature of the gametophyte in Leucophanes is its leaf structure. It is considered that the leaf is composed of a costa (midstereid band), a multistratose (chlorocysts and hyalocysts) area and an all hyaline laminal area. A single species, L. molleri is recognized for the Neotropics. Only female gametophytes are known for populations in the Americas whereas in Africa both sexes occur and sporophytes are produced. The species is described and illustrated. Previously described Southamerican taxa, L. brasiliense, L. calymperatum and L. mittenii are considered synonyms of L. molleri. /// Leucophanes, el nico gnero de la Leucophanaceae ha sido revisado para America Central, el Caribe y Suramrica. La caracterstica ms importante de la gametfita de Leucophanes es su estructura foliar. Se considera que la hoja est compuesta por una costa (banda media de estereidas) y una lmina con un rea multiestratificada (con clorocistos y hialocistos) y un rea toda hialina. Se reconoce una sola especie para el Neotrpico, L. molleri. Slo gametfitos femeninos se conocen para las poblaciones de Amrica mientras que en Africa se reportan ambos sexos y tambin la produccin de esporfitas. Se describe e ilustra la especie. Taxa previamente descritos para Suramrica, L. brasiliense, L. calymperatum y L. mittenii se consideran sinnimos de L. molleri. 
4393917| The tribe Melicocceae is characterized by the presence of a single apotropous, basal ovule per carpel; compound leaves with a distal rudimentary leaflet or process; actinomorphic flowers; non-arillate seeds, sometimes with a sarcotesta; and indehiscent unlobed fruits, not showing individual carpels. The American genera of Melicocceae (Talisia and Melicoccus) are further characterized by the presence of a sarcotesta. Melicoccus is characterized by an arboreal habit; paripinnately compound leaves with one, two or three pairs of leaflets; a distal rudimentary leaflet or process; racemes, panicles or thyrses; actinomorphic 4-(5-) merous flowers; bi- or tricarpellate gynoecium, with complete or less often incomplete septae; baccate fruits with coriaceous mesocarp; seeds with sarcotesta; and a lomatorrhizal embryo with erect cotyledons and punctiform radicle. The natural distribution of Melicoccus ranges from southern Mexico (Yucatan Peninsula) to South America on the periphery of the Amazon area, south to northern Argentina, Bolivia, and Paraguay and a disjunct species in Dominican Republic. Melicoccus bijugatus and M. oliviformis are distributed throughout the tropics through cultivation, while the other two species are largely restricted to their natural ranges. Melicoccus jimenezii of the Dominican Republic is an endangered species. Talisia is characterized by an arboreal or shrubby habit; pinnately compound leaves with a distal process or rudimentary leaflet; panicle-shaped or racemiform thyrses with flowers arranged in lateral dichasia; actinomorphic 5-merous flowers; petals with a single adaxial petal-like appendage; tricarpellate gynoecium with complete septa; baccate fruits; seeds with sarcotesta; and notorrhizal or lomatorrhizal embryos. The genus is distributed throughout continental tropical America, from southern Mexico (Yucatan Peninsula) to Paraguay, except Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, and the high Andes. The vast majority of species of Talisia are found in moist, non-flooded forest, either in the understory or part of the canopy layer. Talisia contains a few, widely dispersed species complexes, exhibiting considerable foliar variation. The remaining species are relatively vegetatively uniform with restricted distributions. The following new taxa are described and illustrated in this monograph: Melicoccus antioquensis, Melicoccus aymardii, Melicoccus espiritosantensis, Melicoccus novogranatensis, Melicoccus petiolulatus Talisia clathrata subsp. canescens, Talisia croatii, Talisia douradensis, Talisia equatoriensis, Talisia ghilleana, Talisia granulosa, Talisia hexaphylla subsp. elegans, Talisia hexaphylla subsp. multinervis, Talisia lanata, Talisia morii, Talisia parviflora, and Talisia velutina. /// La tribu Melicocceae esta caracterizada por la presencia de vulos solitarios, bsales apotrpicos; hojas pinnaticompuestas con una hojuela terminal rudimentaria; flores actinomorfas; semillas no ariladas, a veces con presencia de sarcotesta; y frutos indehiscentes, no lobados. Los gneros americanos de la Melicocceae (Melicoccus y Talisia), se distinguen adems por la presencia de sarcotestas. Melicoccus se caracteriza por tener hbito arbreo; hojas paripinnadas con uno, dos o tres pares de hojuelas y una hojuela distal rudimentaria; racimos, panculas o tirsos; flores actinomorfas, 4(5)-meras, gineceo bi o tricarpelar con septas completas o con menos frecuencia incompletas; frutos carnosos con mesocarpo coriceo; semillas con sarcotesta; embrin lomatorrizo, con cotiledones erectos y radcula punctiforme. Melicoccus se encuentra distribuido naturalmente desde el sur de Mxico (pennsula de Yucatn) hacia Sur Amrica a lo largo de la periferia de la regin amaznica hasta Argentina, Bolivia y Paraguay y por una especies disjuncta en la RepRepblica Dominicana. La mayora de las especies de Melicoccus se encuentran en bosques secos formando parte del dosel del bosque. Melicoccus bijugatus y M. oliviformis estn distribuidas a travs de los trpicos por medio de cultivo mientras que las otras especies tienen en su mayora distribuciones naturales, restringidas. Melicoccus jimenezii de la Repblica Dominicana es una especie endmica amenazada. El gnero Talisia se caracteriza por el hbito arbreo o arbustivo; hojas pinnaticompuestas con una hojuela distal rudimentaria; tirsos paniculiformes o racemiformes con flores arregladas en dicasios laterales o con menos frecuencia panculas; flores actinomorfas, 5-meras; gineceos tricarpelares, con septas completas; frutos carnosos conteniendo una semilla con sarcotesta, embrin notorrizo o lomatorrizo. Talisia est distribuida a travs de Amrica continental tropical desde el sur de Mxico hasta Paraguay, con excepcin de Argentina, Chile Uruguay, y la zona alta de los Andes. La gran mayora de las especies de Talisia se encuentran en bosques hmedos no inundables, ya sea en el sotobosque o formando parte del dosel de los bosques. Talisia contiene algunos complejos de especies ampliamente distribuidos y con gran variacin en los caracteres foliares. Las especies restantes son relativamente uniformes y tienen distribuciones bastantes restringidas. Los siguientes taxones nuevos son descritos en est obra: Melicoccus antioquensis, Melicoccus. aymardii, Melicoccus espiritosantensis, Melicoccus novogranatensis, Melicoccus petiolulatus, Talisia clathrata subsp. canescens, Talisia croatii, Talisia douradensis, Talisia equatoriensis, Talisia ghilleana, Talisia granulosa, Talisia hexaphylla subsp. elegans, Talisia hexaphylla subsp. multinervis, Talisia lanata, Talisia morii, Talisia parviflora, y Talisia velutina. 
4393941|Based on morphological and molecular data, Siparunaceae comprise the neotropical Siparuna and the West African Glossocalyx. This monograph treats both genera and discusses the family's vegetative and reproductive morphology and anatomy, embryology, palynology, chemistry, ethnobotany, and ecology as well as its relationships with other families of Laurales. The 240 names published in Siparuna are typified and 53 species are recognized, including two new species described here. Seven insufficiently known species that are suspected to be new are discussed briefly. Three species and two varieties have been published in Glossocalyx, but only one species is recognized here. All species are illustrated and most of the ca. 8200 collections examined are mapped. Siparuna and Glossocalyx share several characters unique among Laurales. These include unitegmic ovules, bisporangiate glandless stamens that open by a single apically hinged flap, ancestrally unisexual flowers, floral cups (receptacles) covered by a floral roof, and drupelets consistently enclosed in the receptacle during their entire development. Siparuna ranges from southern Mexico to northern Paraguay, and from the Pacific to southeastern Brazil, with a single species in the southern Lesser Antilles. Most species are dioecious, but the phylogenetically basal species are monoecious. Dioecy appears to have evolved twice within the genus. At anthesis, the styles and stamen tips emerge from a central hole in the floral roof, and pollen is transferred between flowers by gall midges (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) that lay their eggs into the flowers. The basal species are trees that occur in lowland Amazonia, while the more derived species are shrubs, straggling shrubs, or treelets occurring in the Andes. Most Siparunaceae have ethnobotanical uses, and recent chemical and pharmaceutical studies are following up indigenous medical applications. /// Segn datos morfolgicos y moleculares, Siparunaceae comprende el gnero neotropical Siparuna y el gnero Glossocalyx de frica occidental. Esta monografa trata ambos gneros y discute la anatoma de la madera, la morfologa floral y la anatoma, la embriologa, la palinologa, la qumica, la etnobotnica y la ecologa de la familia, as como, sus relaciones con otras familias de Laurales. Se han tipificado los 240 nombres publicados en Siparuna y se reconocen 53 especies, incluyendo dos especies nuevas aqu descritas. Dems se discuten brevemente siete especies posiblemente nuevas pero poco conocidas. En Glossocalyx se han publicado trez especies y dos variedades, pero aqu slo se reconoce una especie. Se ilustran todas las especies y se presentan mapas de distribucin de la mayora de las casi 8200 colecciones examinadas. Siparuna y Glossocalyx comparten varios caracteres nicos entre Laurales. Entre estos se incluyen los vulos unitgmicos, los estambres bisporangiados y sin glndulas que se abren por una tapa solitaria, las flores ancestralmente unisexuales, las cpulas florales (receptculos) cubiertas por un techo floral y las drupolas encerradas consistentemente en el receptculo durante todo su desarrollo. Siparuna se distribuye desde el sur de Mxico hasta el norte de Paraguay y desde el Pacfico hasta el sureste de Brasil, con una sola especie en las Antillas Menores del sur. La mayora de las especies son dioicas, pero las especies filogenticamente basales son monoicas. La dioecia parece haber evolucionados dos veces en el gnero. Durante al antesis, los estilos y las puntas de los estambres surgen de un agujero central en el techo floral y es polen se transfiere entre las flores por medio de agallas (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) que ponen huevos en las flores. Las especies basales son rboles y se encuentran en las tierras bajas de la Amazona, mientras que las especies ms derivadas son arbustos, arbustos desparramados o arbolitos que se encuentran en los Andes. La mayora de Siparunaceae tiene usos etnobotnicos y estudios qumicos y farmacuticos recientes estn siguiendo las aplicaciones mdicas indgenas.
4393804| The genus Hedyosmum (Chloranthaceae) is comprised of 40 species of predominantly montane, neotropical shrubs and trees. A comprehensive monograph is provided that includes four newly described species, H. neblinae, H. peruvianum, H. pungens, H. purpurascens. This study reexamines previous treatments of the genus and presents new data on the anatomy, morphology, ecology, and geography of Hedyosmum. Synopses of the taxonomic history, palynology, cytology, and uses are also provided. Anatomical studies focused on floral vascularization, and leaf anatomy, in particular, the type and interspecific distribution of sclerenchyma. Leaf clearings reveal three kinds of sclereids and two kinds of sclerenchymatous sheaths in Hedyosmum; these data are taxonomically useful at the level of species groups. Clearings of pistillate inflorescences suggest certain trends in inflorescence evolution including clustering and/or loss of flowers, fusion of bracts, and shortening of the inflorescence axis. Hedyosmum ranges from central Mexico through Central America to central Bolivia, east to Guyana, and the West Indies. Hedyosmum brasiliense occurs in Paraguay and central to southeastern Brazil and H. orientale is disjunct in southeast Asia. The center of diversity of Hedyosmum is the northern Andes where over 50% of all species are found. Relationships between species groups were examined using phylogenetic methods and a revised infrageneric classification is proposed. Five sections in two subgenera are recognized. Subgen. Hedyosmum is comprised of two sections, sect. Hedyosmum with two species from the West Indies and Central America and sect. Orientale with three species from the West Indies and one species from Southeast Asia. Subgen. Tafalla is composed of three sections. Sect. Microcarpa is the largest and most widely distributed group with 24 species in Central and South America and the West Indies. The nine species of sect. Macrocarpa are exclusively high Andean. Hedyosmum mexicanum of Central America is the sole member of sect. Artocarpoides. In the taxonomic treatment, keys based in large part on reproductive morphology are provided for the sections and for the species within each section. A key to all species based on sterile material is also furnished. Synonymy, descriptions, distribution, habitat, common names, economic uses, and herbarium specimens are given for each species. /// El gnero Hedyosmum (Chloranthaceae) comprende 40 especies de rboles o arbustos predominantemente montanos y neotropicales. Se provee una monografa que incluye cuatro especies recientemente descritas, H. neblinae, H. peruvianum, H. pungens, H. purpurascens. Este estudio reexamina anteriores tratados del gnero y presenta nuevos datos sobre la anatoma, morfologa, ecologia y geografa de Hedyosmum. Tambin se proporciona una sinopsis de la historia taxonmica, palinologa, citologa y usos del gnero. Se incluyen estudios anatmicos enfocados hacia la vascularizacin floral y anatoma de las hojas, particularmente el tipo de esclernquima y su distribucin interespecfica. Diafanizacin en las hojas de Hedyosmum revelan 3 tipos de esclereidas y 2 clases de vainas esclerenquimticas; estos datos son taxonmicamente tiles a nivel de grupos de especies. Diafanizacin en las inflorescencias pistiladas sugieren ciertas tendencias en la evolucin de las inflorescencias, stas incluyen agrupamiento y/o prdida de las flores, fusin de las brcteas y acortamiento del eje de la inflorescencia. Hedyosmum se distribuye de la parte central de Mexico, continuando a travs de Centro Amrica hasta la parte central de Bolivia, este de Guyana y Las Antillas. Hedyosmum brasiliense ocurre en Paraguay y desde el centro hasta el sureste de Brasil y H. orientale es disyunto en Asia del sureste. El centro de diversificacin de Hedyosmum es el norte de los Andes, donde se encuentran mas del 50% de las especies. Las relaciones entre los grupos de especies fueron examinadas usando mtodos filogenticos y se propone una clasificacin infragenrica revisada. Se reconocen cinco secciones en dos subgneros. El subgnero Hedyosmum comprende dos secciones. Seccin Hedyosmum con dos especies en Las Antillas y Centro Amrica y seccin Orientale con tres especies en Las Antillas y una en el sureste de Asia. El subgnero Tafalla comprende tres secciones. Seccin Microcarpa, la mas grande y ampliamente distribuida, con 24 especies en Centro y Sur Amrica y Las Antillas. Las nueve especies de la seccin Macrocarpa son exclusivamente de las zonas elevadas de los Andes. Hedyosmum mexicanum de Centro Amrica es la nica especie de la seccin Artocarpoides. En el tratamiento taxonmico, se proveen claves basadas mayormente en la morfologa reproductiva, tanto para las secciones como para las especies en cada seccin. Tambin se proporciona una clave para todas las especies, basada en material estril. Sinnimos, descripcin, distribucin, habitat, nombres comunes, importancia econmica y colecciones estudiadas se incluyen para cada una de las especies. 
25800079|The Combretaceae are a medium-sized family of about 500 species found throughout the tropical regions of the world, extending into the subtropics in all continents. The number of genera recognized varies from about 12 to 23; 14 are accepted here, five of them in the New World. They are mostly trees or lianas of forest, or small trees or shrubs of savanna, with a few mangroves or mangrove-associates. The two largest genera are Combretum (ca. 255 species, 29 in the Americas), with its center of diversity in Africa, and Terminalia (ca. 190 species, 34 in the Americas), with its center of diversity in Asia. Buchenavia (20 species) is endemic to the New World. The other two American genera are the mangrove Laguncularia and the mangrove-associate Conocarpus (both with a single species in the Americas). In the New World the family ranges from 3220' N in Bermuda, 2906' N in Florida, 3035' N in Chihuahua, Mexico, and 29 N in Baja California Norte, Mexico, to 3715' S in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The two main centers of diversity are Amazonia and SE Brazil; 17 species occur in continental Central America, 4 in United States and Bahamas, 10 in West Indies, 30 in Amazonia, and 33 in Sub-Amazonian South America (including SE Brazil). In addition two cultivated species have become widely naturalized. The main commercial interest is for timber; two species of Terminalia are important in the international market. The following one new section, one new variety, and five new combinations are published here: Buchenavia parvifolia subsp. rabelloana (Mattos) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; Combretum sectio Quisqualis (L.) Stace, comb. nov.; Combretum gracile var. glandulosum Stace, var. nov.; Terminalia sectio Bucida (L.) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; Terminalia sectio Chicharronia (A. Rich.) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; Terminalia sectio Eichlerianae Alwan & Stace, sect. nov.; Terminalia guaiquinimae var. steyermarkii (Alwan & Stace) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.
4393873| A taxonomic revision of three genera of the Euterpeinae is given, on the basis of study of morphology, leaf anatomy, and pollen morphology. Seven species and four varieties of Euterpe, ten species and eight varieties of Prestoea, and one species of Neonicholsonia are recognized. The following new combinations are made: Euterpe catinga var. catinga, E. catinga var. roraimae, Prestoea acuminata var. acuminata, P. acuminata var. dasystachys, P. acuminata var. montana, P. longepetiolata var. longepetiolata, P. longepetiolata var. cuatrecasasii, P. longepetiolata var. roseospadix, P. pubens var. pubens, and P. pubens var. semispicata. /// Se presenta una revisin taxonmica de tres gneros de Euterpeinae. Este anlisis est basado en el estudio de la morfologa, anatoma y morfologa del polen. Se reconocen siete especies y quatro variedades de Euterpe, diez especies y ocho variedades de Prestoea, y una especie de Neonicholsonia. Se hicieron las seguintes nuevas combinaciones: Euterpe catinga var. catinga, E. catinga var. roraimae, Prestoea acuminata var. acuminata, P. acuminata var. dasystachys, P. acuminata var. montana, P. longepetiolata var. longepetiolata, P. longepetiolata var. cuatrecasasii, P. longepetiolata var. roseospadix, P. pubens var. pubens, y P. pubens var. semispicata. 
4393807|The Krameriaceae is a family consisting of one genus, Krameria, with 17 species. Most species occur in the neotropics, but one species is restricted to temperate North America and one to temperate South America. All species occur primarily in dry to seasonally dry, open habitats. The species are shrubs (10), subshrubs (2), or herbs (5), with usually strigose, sericeous, or villous branches, alternate simple or trifoliolate leaves, zygomorphic flowers borne singly, or in terminal racemes or panicles. The sepals are usually showy, and pink, purple, or rose in color. The fruits are usually more or less globose, with one seed, and possess spines, usually retrorsely barbed. Krameria is noteworthy for the fact that all species probably are hemiparasites, with their roots forming haustoria upon a variety of (mostly woody) hosts. The reproductive biology of all the species seems to involve an obligate relationship with oil-collecting centridine bees. The family has at various times been allied phylogenetically with the Leguminosae-Caesalpinioideae or the Polygalaceae, because of its zygomorphic flowers and poricidal anthers. Recent morphological, palynological, and chemotaxonomic (especially serological) work argues strongly for the polygalaceous affinity, however. Krameria species have few uses today, but K. lappacea (rhatany) appeared in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia until 1905. The active principles are tannins, with astrigent properties, and have been used in dentifrices and mouthwashes. A dye, rhatany red, has been used to dye basketry and color port wine.
4393902| The tropical family Opiliaceae of the Santalales comprises 10 genera with 33 species of root parasites. A monograph of the single neotropical genus Agonandra is presented here, including chapters on taxonomic history, morphology, leaf and wood anatomy (P. van Rijckevorsel, Utrecht), pollen morphology (D. Lobreau-Callen, CNRS and EPHE, Paris), chemistry, seed oils (K. Aitzetmller, BAGKF, Mnster), cytology, ecology, and distribution. The 10 species of Agonandra are distributed from Mexico through Central America and the lower elevation areas of South America to northern Argentina. A key is provided for the known species, and synonymy, descriptions, distribution maps, illustrations, local names, uses, and herbarium voucher specimens are given for each species. /// La familia tropical Opiliaceae de los Santalales comprende 10 gneros con 33 especies de parsitas de la races. Aqu se presenta una monografa del gnero neotropical Agonandra que incluye captulos historia taxonmica, morfologa, anatoma de la hoja y la madera (P. van Rijckevorsel, Utrecht), morfologa del polen (D. Lobreau-Callen, CNRS y EPHE, Paris), qumica, aceites de las semillas (K. Aitzetmller, BAGKF, Mnster), citologa, ecologa y distribucin. Las 10 especies de Agonandra se distribuyen desde Mxico, Amrica Central y las partes bajas de Sur Amrica hasta el norte de Argentina. Se presenta una clave para las especies conocidas, sinonimia, descripciones, mapas de distribucin, ilustraciones, nombres comunes, usos y se citan ejemplares de herbario para cada especie. 
4393938| Cecropia, with 61 species presently recognized, is the largest genus of the Cecropiaceae. It is a genus of pioneer trees in the more or less humid parts of the Neotropics. The majority of the species are myrmecophytic. The genus is characterized by some unusual traits: spathes fully enclosing the flower-bearing parts of the inflorescences until anthesis, patches of dense indumentum (trichilia) producing Mllerian (food) bodies at the base of the petiole, and anthers becoming detached at anthesis. The ecological role of the genus and its association with ants have been the subject of numerous studies, most of them cited in the present monograph. Although the taxonomy has been sorted out reasonably well, the coverage by collections and field notes are still insufficient in many cases to fully understand morphological and ecological variation and plasticity in relation to taxonomic delimitations, and in several cases, to prepare complete descriptions. The introductory chapter deals with taxonomic history, morphology, ecology, plant-animal relations, pollination, dispersal, distribution, classification, diversification, use, vernacular names, and conservation. Myrmecophily in Cecropia is treated in a separate chapter (by Davidson). In the present contribution, the new combination Cecropia schreberiana Miquel subsp. antillarum (Snethlage) C. C. Berg & P. Franco is made and numerous lectotypes or neotypes are designated as follows. Neotypes for: Ceocropia concolor Willdenow, C. herthae Diels, C. hololeuca Miquel, C. insignis Liebmann, C. litoralis Snethlage, C. maxima Snethlage, C. palmata Willdenow, C. pastasana Diels, and C. velutinella Diels. Lectotypes for: Cecropia acutifolia Trcul, C. adenopus Miquel, C. amphichlora Standley & L. O. Williams, C. angulata I. W. Bailey, C. cyrtostachya Miquel, C. ferreyrae Cuatreccasas, C. ficifolia Snethlage, C. glaziovii Snethlage, C. inchuensis Cuatrecasas, C. megastachya Cuatrecasas, C. pachystachya Trcul, C. palmatisecta Cuatrecasas, C. porvenirensis Cuatrecasas, C. saxatilis Snethlage, C. scabra Martius, C. strigilosa Cuatrecasas, C. strigosa Trcul, and C. ulei Snethlage. /// Cecropia con 61 especies reconocidas en la actualidad, es el gnero mas diversificado de la familia Cecropiaceae. Sus especies son rboles pioneros en localidades hmedas y muy hmedas del Neotrpico. La mayora de las especies son mimercfilas y se caracterizan por rasgos extraordinarios: espatas que envuelven completamente las partes de la inflorescencia hasta la anthesis, parches de indumento denso (trichilia) que producen los cuerpos de Mller en la base del peciolo, los cuales sirven como fuente de alimento a las hormigas, y anteras que se separan en la antesis. El papel ecolgico del gnero y la asociacin con las hormigas han sido fuente de nuemerosos estudios, la mayora de los cuales se resean en la presente monografa. Aunque la taxonoma est razonablemente bien clarificada, el cubrimento geogrfico de las colecciones y las observaciones de campo son insuficientes en numerosos casos para comprender las variaciones morfolgicas y ecolgicas y la plasticidad, y en otros casos para preparar decripciones completas. El captulo inicial se relaciona con la historia taxonmica, la morfologia, la relacin planta-animal, la polinizacin, dispersion, distribucin, clasificacin, diversificacin, usos, nombres comunes y conservacin. Cecropia y sus hormigas son tratadas en un captulo aparte. En esta contribucin igualmente se propone la nueva combinacin Cecropia schreberiana Miquel subsp. antillarum (Snethlage) C. C. Berg & P. Franco y se designan numerosos lectotipos y neotipos. /// Cecropia, com 61 espcies atualemente reconhecidas,  o maior gnero das Cecropiaceae. Apresenta vores pioneiras nas partes midas ou semi-hmidas da regio Neotropical. A maioria das espcies  mirmecfita. O gnero apresenta algumas caractersticas mpares: espatas cobrindo integralmente as partes florais das inflorescncias at a antese, partes com denso indumento (triqulios) produtores dos corpsculos de Mller (alimentos) na base do pecolo, e anteras tornando-se destacadas na antese. O papel ecolgico do gnero e a associao com a formigas j foram assunto para numerosas pesquisas, muitas das quais referidas na presente monografia. Embora a taxonomia seja razoavelmente conhecida, os dados existentes nas colees e notas de campo so ainda insuficientes em muitos casos para serem esclarecidas a morfologia, variaes ecolgicas e plasticidade com respeito s delimitaes taxonomicas, e em vrios casos, na preparao de descries completas. O captulo introdutrio aborda o histrico taxonmico, morfologia, ecologia, relao planta-animal, polinizao, disperso, distribuio, classificao, diversificao, usos, nomes populares e conservao. A mirmecofilia em Cecropia  tratada num captulo  parte. Na presente contribuio consta a nova combinao Cecropia schreberiana Miquel subsp. antillarum (Snethlage) C. C. Berg & P. Franco assim o designados numerosos lecttipos e netipos. 
4393825| A taxonomic monograph is presented for the neotropical species of the lichen genus Phyllopsora Mll. Arg. (Bacidiaceae). The genus is distinguished by a combination of characters: a squamulose to subfoliose thallus with an obvious prothallus; an ascal type with an amyloid hemispheric dome and narrow, conical masse axiale; an apothecial type composed of highly gelatinized hyphae with no clear distinction between the exciple and the hypothecium and with the same texture found in the center and margin of the apothecium as well as in the paraphyses; and by small, thin-walled, rarely septate ascospores. The relationship of Phyllopsora with the genera Bacidia, Bacidiopsora, Biatora, Eschatogonia, Physcidia, and Squamacidia is discussed. Type specimens have been studied for nearly all names included in Phyllopsora. Eighteen species and eleven varieties are recognized in the neotropics, including one species (P. kalbii) and one variety (P. corallina var. rappiana) described as new. The species concept in Phyllopsora is reassessed. Most species were found to exhibit great morphological variation. New chemical data are given for a number of species, and chemical strains are recognized for P. buettner and P. corallina and their varieties. Eight of the eighteen species have a pantropical distribution and most of the remaining species are widely distributed in the New World. /// Se presenta una monografia taxonmica de las especies neotropicales del gnero de lquenes Phyllospora Mll. Arg. (Bacidiaceae). El gnero se distingue por una combinacin de caracteres: un talo escuamuloso con un protalo evidente; un tipo de ascus con un domo hemisfrico amiloide y un "masse axiale" angosto y cnico; un tipo de apotecio compuesto de hifas altamente gelatinizadas sin una distincin clara entre el paratecio y el hipotecio y con la misma textura hallada en el centro y margen del apotecio como en las parfisis; y por ascsporas pequeas, de pared delgada, y raras veces septadas. Se discute el parentesco de Phyllopsora con los gneros Bacidia, Bacidiopsora, Biatora, Eschatagonia, Physcidia, y Squamacidia. Especmenes tipo se estudiaron para casi todos los nombres incluidos dentro de Phyllospsora. Dieciocho especies y once variedades son reconocidas en el rea neotropical, incluyendo una especie (P. kalbii) y una variedad nueva (P. corallina var. rappiana). Tambin se re-evalu el concepto de especie en Phyllopsora, encontrndose mucha variacin morfolgica en la mayora de las especies. Se dan nuevos datos qumicos para ciertas especies, y razas qmicas fueron reconocidas en P. buettneri y P. corallina y sus variedades. Ocho de las dieciocho especies tienen una distribucin pantropical, y la mayora de las especies restantes son distribuidas ampliamente en el Nuevo Mundo. 
4393911| The Potamogetonaceae are aquatic herbs with submersed or floating leaves. The family comprises three genera and about 100 species of near-cosmopolitan distribution. Two genera of the family, Potamogeton and Stuckenia, are known from the Neotropics. Potamogeton, a genus of about 95 species, has 17 species known to be from the Neotropics. Stuckenia, a genus of six species, has three species known to be from the Neotropics. Keys, descriptions, illustrations, and documented distribution maps for all species and subspecies are included. /// Las Potamogetonaceae son hierbas acuticas con hojas sumergidas o flotantes. La familia consta de tres gneros y unas 100 especies de distribucin casi cosmopolita. Los dos gneros, Potamogeton y Stuckenia, son conocidos de Amrica tropical. El gnero Potamogeton consta de unas 95 especies, con 17 especies en Amrica tropical, y el gnero Stuckenia consta de seis especies, con tres especies en Amrica tropical. Se presentan claves, descripciones, ilustraciones y mapas de distribucin para todos los taxa. 
4393932| A revision of the genus Rhodostemonodaphne is presented. The genus comprises 41 species of dioecious Lauraceae with stamens bearing four locelli situated in a shallow arch towards the apex of the anthers. A taxonomic history of the genus is given. The variation in vegetative and reproductive morphology is discussed. A brief discussion on the distribution of the species is offered. The systematic position of the genus is discussed, and a subdivision into informal species groups is suggested. The variation of characters used in the segregation of the species comprising the R. grandis complex is presented in detail. The species concept used in the delimitation of species in this treatment is provided and contrasted with species concepts currently used by other workers in the Lauraceae. Generic and species descriptions are provided, with a list of exsiccatae, species illustrations, and distribution maps. Sixteen new species are described and four new combinations are proposed. /// Se presenta una revisin del gnero Rhodostemonodaphne. El gnero comprende 41 especies de Lauraceae dioicas con los estambres presentando cuatro locelos situados en un arco suave hacia el pice de las anteras. Se resea la historia taxonmica del gnero. Se discute la variacin observada en la morfologa vegetativa y reproductiva. Se ofrece una corta discusin acerca de la distribucin de las especies. Se discute la posicin taxonmica del gnero y se sugiere una subdivisin en grupos de especies informales. Se presenta en detalle la variacin de los caracteres usados en la segregacin de las especies comprendidas en el complejo R. grandis. Se provee el concepto de especies utilizado en la delimitacin de las especies en este tratamiento, y es contrastado con conceptos de especie usados en la actualidad por trabajadores de las Lauraceae. Se proveen la descripcin del gnero y de las especies, con una lista de exsicados, ilustraciones de las especies y mapas de distribucin. Diez y seis nuevas especies son descritas y cuatro nuevas combinaciones son propuestas en este trabajo. 
4393950| Tococa is a Neotropical genus of woody shrubs, small trees, and climbing or creeping vines. It is distributed from southern Mexico to Bolivia and in the Antilles only in Trinidad and Tobago. The genus has been the subject of great ecological interest due to the presence of ant domatia at the base of the leaf or the apex of the petiole in about 2/3 of the species. A morphological phylogenetic analysis suggests that Tococa, as defined previous to this monograph, is not monophyletic. Eleven of the 45 species here recognized are included as insertae sedis, because their relationships to the remaining species of Tococa are not clearly understood. Tococa is defined to contain the genera Hormocalyx, Myrmidone, Sphaerogyne, and Truncaria. Tococa sensu stricto can be distinguished from other taxa in the Miconieae by the presence of petals with an emarginate border, a truncate ovary, and straight anticlinal walls in the cells of the seed testa. Additionally, two other characters are alternatively optimized onto the base of the Tococa sensu stricto node in the cladistic analysis: absence of sculpturing on the testa and presence of a blunt or reduced calyx. The minute dorsal-basal tooth of the anther connective that has been considered in the past as diagnostic for Tococa is not a synapomorphy for the genus. This character, although present in most species of Tococa sensu stricto, is variable in two species and absent in the others. Tococa bolivarensis subsp. occidentalis is segregated from T. bolivarensis subsp. bolivarensis, elevated to species status, and renamed Tococa raggiana Michelangeli (nom. nov. et stat. nov.) /// Tococa es un gnero Neotropical de arbustos, pequeos rboles, rastreras, y trepadoras. Est distribuido desde el sur de Mxico hasta Bolivia y Brasil y en Las Antillas nicamente en Trinidad y Tobago. El gnero ha sido objeto de gran inters en estudios ecolgicos debido a la presencia de mirmecodomacios en la base de la lmina o el pice del pecolo en cerca de 2/3 de las especies. Un anlisis filogentico basado en caracteres morfolgicos sugiere que el gnero Tococa, como previamente circunscrito, no es monofiltico. Once de las 45 especies aqu reconocidas, son incluidas como insertae sedis, ya que las relaciones filogenticas entre estas especies y el resto de las especies de Tococa no estn bien definidas. El gnero Tococa circunscrito de la manera expresada en esta monografia incluye los gneros Hormocalyx, Myrmidone, Sphaerogyne, y Truncaria. Tococa sensu stricto puede distinguirse de otras especies dentro de la tribu Miconiaeae por la presencia de ptalos emarginados, pice del ovario truncado, y celulas en la testa de las semillas con el borde anticlinal rectilneo. Adicionalmente, otros dos caracteres se encuentran en Tococa sensu stricto: testa de las semillas sin esculturaciones secundarias y la reduccin del cliz en la mayora de las especies. El apndice dorsal-basal en el conectivo de las anteras que ha sido considerado en el pasado como el carcter diagnstico del gnero no constituye una sinamopomorfa para el gnero. Este carcter, aunque presente en la mayora de las especies, es variable en dos especies y se encuentra ausente en otras tres. Tococa bolivarensis subsp. occidentalis es segregada de T. bolivarensis subsp. bolivarensis y renombrada Tococa raggiana Michelangeli (nom. nov. et stat. nov.) 
4393923| The present monograph treats the moss family Amblystegiaceae in the neotropical area. The family is most widespread in temperate areas and is chiefly distributed at higher altitudes in the tropical and subtropical zones. Because of this, its diversity in the Neotropics is highest in the Andes, especially in the Colombian-Venezuelan area, the Mexican and Guatemalan highlands, and on Hispaniola. Representatives of 20 genera are known from the area, including a total of 42 species. One species, Amblystegium pseudosubtile Hedens, is described as new. This species, which is known only from Hispaniola, is the only Amblystegiaceae species with a rough seta; and additionally it differs from the similar A. subtile (Hedw.) Schimp. in having more strongly denticulate leaf margins, less-developed costa of the inner perichaetial leaves, a longer rostrate operculum, a widened exostome margin, and larger spores. Seven Amblystegiaceae species are endemic to the neotropical area, and nine of those occurring in the neotropical area are endemic to S and C America. Most of the members of the family occur in at least temporarily more or less wet or humid habitats, although exceptions occur, for example in Anacamptodon and Campylophyllum. /// El presente monografa trata de la familia de musgos Amblystegiaceae en el rea Neotrpico. La distribucin de esta familia es muy extendido en los reas templadas. En los trpicos y subtrpicos la distribucin es ante todo en los reas altos. Por eso la biodiversidad ms alta en los Neotrpicos son en los Andes, sobre todo en el rea Colombiana-Venozulana, el rea montaosa en Mxico y Guatemala y en la isla de Hispaniola. Hay representativos de 20 gneros en este rea, incluyendo 42 especies. Une especie, Amblystegium pseudosubtile Hedens, esta descrito como nuevo aqui. Este especie, que solamente esta conocido de la Hispaniola, es el nico representativo de Amblystegiaceae que tiene una seta ruda y adems esta distinguido del especie similar A. subtile (Hedw.) Schimp. en sus marcados dientes en el margen de las hojas, el menos desarollado costa en las hojas periqueciales interiores, un operculum ms elongato y rostrato, un margen del exostoma ms enganchado, y por tener esporos ms grandes. Siete Amblystegiaceae especies son endmicos del rea Neotrpico y nueve de los especies que existen en el rea Neotrpico son endmicos del America del Sur y del America del Medio. La mayora de los miembros de la familia crecen en un bitopo ms o menos hmedo, pero hay excepcines, como dentro los gneros Anacamptodon y Campylophyllum. 
25660968|Lcking, R. (Department of Botany, The Field Museum, 1400 South Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60605-2496, USA, rlucking@fieldmuseum.org). Foliicolous lichenized fungi. Flora Neotropica Monograph 103: 1867. 2008.Foliicolous lichenized fungi, or foliicolous lichens, inhabit the surfaces of living leaves of vascular plants, mostly the upper surface (epiphyllous), but occasionally also the lower surface (hypophyllous). They do not form a coherent systematic entity but evolved as ecologically specialized groups within different clades of lichenized and non-lichenized fungi in the Ascomycota and Basidiomycota. Foliicolous lichens constitute an essentially tropical phenomenon, with few taxa occurring in very humid habitats of subtropical and temperate regions. Of the more than 800 foliicolous lichens presently accepted worldwide, 616 species and 15 additional subspecific taxa occur in the Neotropics, from the southern United States and Mexico to northern Chile and Argentina, and in the Valdivian temperate rain forests of southern Chile and Argentina, the areas covered by this monograph. These taxa belong to 74 genera in 23 families and eight orders. Natural keys to orders and families and artificial keys to genera containing foliicolous lichens are provided, as well as keys to all species and subspecific taxa. Each taxon is described and discussed in detail, accompanied by habit photographs and drawings of ascospores and other anatomical details, notes on distribution and ecology, and a list of representative specimens examined. An extensive introductory section summarizes the morphology, anatomy, and chemistry of foliicolous lichens and compiles current knowledge about their evolution, phylogeny, classification, biogeography, and ecology, as well as potential applications and conservation issues. One new family, Lyrommataceae Lcking; four new genera, Baflavia Lcking, Brasilicia Lcking, Kalb & Srus., Eugeniella Lcking & Srus., and Phyllogyalidea Lcking & Aptroot; and one new section, Badimia sect. Pseudogyalecta (Vzda) Lcking & Vzda are described. The following 60 species are established as new: Aderkomyces gomezii Lcking, A. rigidus Lcking & Sipman, Anisomeridium guttuliferum Lcking, A. prolongatum Lcking, Aspidothelium arachnoideum Lcking, A. papillicarpum Lcking, Asterothyrium filiforme Lcking & R. Sant., Bacidina neotropica Lcking, Bapalmuia araracuarensis Sipman & Lcking, B. napoensis Lcking, B. pallescens Lcking, Byssoloma braulii Lcking, B. multipunctatum Lcking, Calenia atlantica Cceres & Lcking, C. chroodisciformis Lcking, C. echinoplacoides Lcking, C. fumosa Lcking, C. obtecta Lcking, C. pernambucensis Cceres & Lcking, C. pseudographidea Lcking, Calopadia aurantiaca Lcking, Calopadiopsis aeruginascens Lcking, Caprettia confusa Lcking & Sipman, Chroodiscus graphideus Lcking & Kalb, Echinoplaca atromuralis Lcking, E. epiphylloides Lcking, E. leucomuralis Lcking, E. wilsoniorum Lcking, Fellhanera flavostanhopeae Lcking, F. punctata Lcking, F. tricharioides Lcking & R. Sant., Gyalideopsis arvidssonii Lcking, G. laevithallina Lcking, G. lobulata Lcking, G. pallescens Lcking, Lyromma confusum Lcking, L. pilosum Lcking, Malcolmiella bacidinoides Lcking, M. fellhaneroides Lcking, Microtheliopsis uniseptata Herrera-Campos & Lcking, Opegrapha fuscothallina Lcking & Matzer, O. serusiauxii Lcking, Phyllobathelium anomalum Lcking, Phylloblastia inconspicua Lcking, Porina albida Lcking, P. barbifera Lcking, P. filispora Lcking, P. haendelii Henssen & Lcking, P. nadkarniae Lcking & Merwin, Psoroglaena epiphylla Lcking, P. laevigata Lcking, Sporopodium marginatum Lcking & Lumbsch, S. subflavescens Lcking & Lumbsch, Strigula minuta Lcking, S. nigrocarpa Lcking, S. radiata Lcking, Tricharia sipmanii Lcking, Trichothelium africanum Lcking, T. montanum Lcking, and T. wirthii Lcking. In addition, 13 subspecific taxa are introduced: Aderkomyces albostrigosus fo. aggregatus Lcking & Vzda, Arthonia cyanea var. cyanea fo. minor Lcking, Bacidina simplex fo. cyanophila Lcking, Dictyonema phyllogenum fo. defectum Lcking, D. phyllogenum fo. nitidum Lcking, Echinoplaca furcata subsp. neotropica Lcking, E. verrucifera fo. calcarea Lcking, Fellhanera verrucifera var. nigrescens Lcking, Gyalideopsis vulgaris fo. albopruinosa Lcking, Porina cubana fo. irregularis Lcking, P. guianensis fo. pentaseptata Lcking, Trichothelium montanum fo. latisporum Lcking, and T. sipmanii Lcking fo. multiseptatum. Furthermore, 35 new combinations are proposed: Aspidothelium macrosporum (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Bacidina arvidssonii (Srus.) Lcking, B. pseudohyphophorifera (Lcking & Srus.) Lcking, Badimia leioplacella (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, B. verrucosa (Vzda) Lcking & Vzda, Baflavia flavescens (Lcking) Lcking, Brasilicia brasiliensis (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Kalb & Srus., Byssoloma sprucei (Bab. ex Nyl.) Lcking & Cceres, Byssoloma subdiscordans var. puertoricensis (Srus.) Lcking, Caprettia ornata (R. Sant. & Vzda) Lcking & Srus., Coenogonium geralense (P. Henn.) Lcking, C. minimum (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, C. pocsii (Vzda & Farkas) Lcking, C. siquirrense (Lcking) Lcking, C. vezdanum (Lcking) Lcking, Eugeniella atrichoides (Malme) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. corallifera (Lcking) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. leucocheila (Tuck.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. micrommata (Kremp.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. newtoniana (Henriques) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. ortizii (Lcking) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. psychotriae (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, Phylloblastia alvari (Herrera-Campos & Lcking) Lcking, P. borhidii (Farkas & Vzda) Lcking, P. dispersa (Vzda) Lcking, P. marattiae (Vzda) Lcking, P. mucronata (McCarthy) Lcking, P. pocsii (Farkas & Vzda) Lcking, P. septemseptata (Vzda) Lcking, P. triseptata (Kalb & Vzda) Lcking, Phyllogyalidea epiphylla (Vzda) Lcking & Aptroot, P. phyllophila (Vzda) Lcking & Aptroot, Psoroglaena biatorella (Arnold) Lcking, Strigula nemathora fo. hypothelia (Nyl.) Lcking, S. vulgaris (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, and Tricharia paraguayensis (Ferraro & Lcking) Lcking. Strigula tremens Mll. Arg. is reintroduced, whereas the following species are considered new taxonomic synonyms: Calopadia schaeferi Vzda [= Calopadia fusca (Mll. Arg.) Vzda], Phyllophiale fusca R. Sant. [= Porina fusca Lcking], Phyllophiale viridis Lcking & Cceres [= Porina pseudoapplanata Lcking & Cceres], Porina aspera Vzda [= P. deremensis F. Schill.], Porina mirabilis Lcking & Vzda [= P. alba (R. Sant.) Lcking], Strigula smaragdula var. stellata (Nyl. & Cromb. ex Ward) Farkas [= S. smaragdula Fr.], S. nemathora var. pulchella (Mll. Arg.) R. Sant. [= S. nemathora Mont.]. In addition, the following older names were found for more recently described species: Badimia leioplacella (Mll. Arg.) Lcking [= Badimia subelegans Sipman & Lcking]; Eugeniella leucocheila (Tuck.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb [= Byssoloma wettsteinii (Zahlbr.) Zahlbr.]; and Porina deremensis F. Schill. [= Porina aspera Vzda]. Lcking, R. (Department of Botany, The Field Museum, 1400 South Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60605-2496, USA). Foliicolous lichenized fungi. Flora Neotropica Monograph 103: 1867. 2008.Hongos liquenizados folicolas, o lquenes folicolas, crecen sobre la superficie de hojas vivas de plantas vasculares, principalmente en el haz (epfilos), pero a veces tambin en el envez (hipfilos). Estos lquenes no forman una entidad sistemtica coherente sino evolucionaron independientemente como grupos ecologicamente especializados dentro de lineas diferentes de hongos liquenizados y no liquenizados de Ascomycota y Basidiomycota. Lquenes folicolas conforman un fenmeno esencialmente tropical, con pocas especies ocurriendo en hbitats muy hmedos de regiones suptropicales y templadas. De los ms de 800 lquenes folicolas actualmente reconocidos en el mundo, 616 especies y 15 taxones subespecficos occurren en el Neotrpico, del sur de Estados Unidos y Mxico hasta el norte de Chile y Argentina, y tambin en los bosques pluviosos templados de la regin de Valdivia en el sur de Chile y Argentina, las cuales son las regiones cubiertas por la presente monografa. Estos taxones pertenecen a 74 gneros en 23 familias y ocho rdenes. Claves naturales ayudan a identificar rdenes y familias, y claves artificiales Ilevan a gneros conteniendo lquenes folicolas, tanto como a especies y taxones subespecficos. Cada especie se describe en detalle, en trminos de su taxonoma, acompaado por fotogrficas de talos y dibujos de ascosporas, notas sobre su distribucin y ecologa, y una lista de especmenes representativos. La introduccin extensiva cubre la morfologa, anatoma y qumica secundaria de lquenes foliicolas, adems de una revisin del conocimiento actual de su evolucin, filogena, clasificacin, biogeografa, ecologa, aplicaciones potenciales y asuntos de conservacin. Se describe una nueva familia, Lyrommataceae Lcking, cuatro nuevos gneros, Baflavia Lcking, Brasilicia Lcking, Kalb & Srus., Eugeniella Lcking & Srus., y Phyllogyalidea Lcking & Aptroot, y una nueva seccin, Badimia sect. Pseudogyalecta (Vzda) Lcking & Vzda, y adems 60 especies nuevas: Aderkomyces gomezii Lcking, A. rigidus Lcking & Sipman, Anisomeridium guttuliferum Lcking, A. prolongatum Lcking, Aspidothelium arachnoideum Lcking, A. papillicarpum Lcking, Asterothyrium filiforme Lcking & R. Sant., Bacidina neotropica Lcking, Bapalmuia araracuarensis Sipman & Lcking, B. napoensis Lcking, B. pallescens Lcking, Byssoloma braulii Lcking, B. multipunctatum Lcking, Calenia atlantica Cceres & Lcking, C. chroodisciformis Lcking, C. echinoplacoides Lcking, C. fumosa Lcking, C. obtecta Lcking, C. pernambucensis Cceres & Lcking, C. pseudographidea Lcking, Calopadia aurantiaca Lcking, Calopadiopsis aeruginascens Lcking, Caprettia confusa Lcking & Sipman, Chroodiscus graphideus Lcking & Kalb, Echinoplaca atromuralis Lcking, E. epiphylloides Lcking, E. leucomuralis Lcking, E. wilsoniorum Lcking, Fellhanera flavostanhopeae Lcking, F. punctata Lcking, F. tricharioides Lcking & R. Sant., Gyalideopsis arvidssonii Lcking, G. laevithallina Lcking, G. lobulata Lcking, G. pallescens Lcking, Lyromma confusum Lcking, L. pilosum Lcking, Malcolmiella bacidinoides Lcking, M. fellhaneroides Lcking, Microtheliopsis uniseptata Herrera-Campos & Lcking, Opegrapha fuscothallina Lcking & Matzer, O. serusiauxii Lcking, Phyllobathelium anomalum Lcking, Phylloblastia inconspicua Lcking, Porina albida Lcking, P. barbifera Lcking, P. filispora Lcking, P. haendelii Henssen & Lcking, P. nadkarniae Lcking & Merwin, Psoroglaena epiphylla Lcking, P. laevigata Lcking, Sporopodium marginatum Lcking & Lumbsch, S. subflavescens Lcking & Lumbsch, Strigula minuta Lcking, S. nigrocarpa Lcking, S. radiata Lcking, Tricharia sipmanii Lcking, Trichothelium africanum Lcking, T. montanum Lcking, y T. wirthii Lcking. Adicionalmente se introduce 13 taxones subespecficos: Aderkomyces albostrigosus fo. aggregatus Lcking & Vzda, Arthonia cyanea var. cyanea fo. minor Lcking, Bacidina simplex fo. cyanophila Lcking, Dictyonema phyllogenum fo. defectum Lcking, D. phyllogenum fo. nitidum Lcking, Echinoplaca furcata subsp. neotropica Lcking, E. verrucifera fo. calcarea Lcking, Fellhanera verrucifera var. nigrescens Lcking, Gyalideopsis vulgaris fo. albopruinosa Lcking, Porina cubana fo. irregularis Lcking, P. guianensis fo. pentaseptata Lcking, Trichothelium montanum fo. latisporum Lcking, y T. sipmanii Lcking fo. multiseptatum. Adems se propone 35 nuevas combinaciones: Aspidothelium macrosporum (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Bacidina arvidssonii (Srus.) Lcking, B. pseudohyphophorifera (Lcking & Srus.) Lcking, Badimia leioplacella (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, B. verrucosa (Vzda) Lcking & Vzda, Baflavia flavescens (Lcking) Lcking, Brasilicia brasiliensis (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Kalb & Srus., Byssoloma sprucei (Bab. ex Nyl.) Lcking & Cceres, Byssoloma subdiscordans var. puertoricensis (Srus.) Lcking, Caprettia ornata (R. Sant. & Vzda) Lcking & Srus., Coenogonium geralense (P. Henn.) Lcking, C. minimum (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, C. pocsii (Vzda & Farkas) Lcking, C. siquirrense (Lcking) Lcking, C. vezdanum (Lcking) Lcking, Eugeniella atrichoides (Malme) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. corallifera (Lcking) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. leucocheila (Tuck.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. micrommata (Kremp.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. newtoniana (Henriques) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. ortizii (Lcking) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, E. psychotriae (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb, Phylloblastia alvari (Herrera-Campos & Lcking) Lcking, P. borhidii (Farkas & Vzda) Lcking, P. dispersa (Vzda) Lcking, P. marattiae (Vzda) Lcking, P. mucronata (McCarthy) Lcking, P. pocsii (Farkas & Vzda) Lcking, P. septemseptata (Vzda) Lcking, P. triseptata (Kalb & Vzda) Lcking, Phyllogyalidea epiphylla (Vzda) Lcking & Aptroot, P. phyllophila (Vzda) Lcking & Aptroot, Psoroglaena biatorella (Arnold) Lcking, Strigula nemathora fo. hypothelia (Nyl.) Lcking, S. vulgaris (Mll. Arg.) Lcking, y Tricharia paraguayensis (Ferraro & Lcking) Lcking. Se reintroduce Strigula tremens Mll. Arg., mientras las siguientes especies son considerados sinnimos taxonmicos nuevos: Calopadia schaeferi Vzda [= Calopadia fusca (Mll. Arg.) Vzda], Phyllophiale fusca R. Sant. [= Porina fusca Lcking], Phyllophiale viridis Lcking & Cceres [= Porina pseudoapplanata Lcking & Cceres], Porina aspera Vzda [= P. deremensis F. Schill.], Porina mirabilis Lcking & Vzda [= P. alba (R. Sant.) Lcking], Strigula complanata var. stellata (Nyl. & Cromb. ex Ward) Farkas [= S. smaragdula Fr.], S. nemathora var. pulchella (Mll. Arg.) R. Sant. [= S. nemathora Mont.]. Adems, los siguientes nombres viejos fueron encontrados para especies ms recientemente descritas: Badimia leioplacella (Mll. Arg.) Lcking [= Badimia subelegans Sipman & Lcking]; Eugeniella leucocheila (Tuck.) Lcking, Srus. & Kalb [= Byssoloma wettsteinii (Zahlbr.) Zahlbr.]; y Porina deremensis F. Schill. [= Porina aspera Vzda].
4393953|The genus Piptocarpha (Vernonieae: Compositae) is South American, except for P. tetrantha, which is endemic to Puerto Rico, and P. poeppigiana and P. triflora, which range into Central America and the West Indies, respectively. Piptocarpha is distinguished by the unusual features of sterile anther tails, axillary glomerulate inflorescences, and deciduous inner phyllaries. Other distinguishing characters include stellate trichomes or silvery scales (chiefly on the lower leaf surfaces and branchlets); glabrous, angular, costate achenes; indistinctly biseriate to biseriate, filiform pappus; blunt, short hairs on the style branches; and cream-colored florets with recurved lobes. Nomenclatural, morphological, cytological, and flavonoid studies as well as information from Piptocarpha rust infections were utilized to delimit taxa and to develop an infrageneric classification. Forty-six species comprise the genus and are placed into two subgenera, Piptocarpha and Hypericoides. In subgenus Piptocarpha section Piptocarpha, three new series (Rotundifoliae, Opacae, and Asterotrichiae) are delimited, and in subgenus Hypericoides, one new series (Leprosae) is delimited. Two new species are described: P. gustavo-valerioana and P. subcorymbosa. The following are new combinations: P. axillaris subsp. graciellae, P. oblonga subsp. lepidota, and P. macropoda subsp. crassifolia.
4393890| The neotropical Cladoniaceae (lichen-forming Ascomycota: Lecanorales) comprise 184 known species in four genera, Cladia Nylander, Cladina Nylander, Cladonia Hill ex P. Browne, and Pycnothelia Dufour. Twenty-nine taxa are described as new: Cladia globosa Ahti, Cladina arbuscula subsp. pachyderma Ahti, C. atrans Ahti, C. kalbii Ahti, C. kriegeri Ahti & S. Stenroos, Cladonia chimantae Ahti, C. cinerella Ahti, C. crustacea Ahti, C. curta Ahti & Marcelli, C. cyanescens Ahti, C. farinophylla Ahti, C. glabra Ahti, C. hians Ahti, C. huberi Ahti, C. itatiaiae Ahti & Marcelli, C. latiloba Ahti & Marcelli, C. lingulata Ahti, C. marcellii Ahti & S. Stenroos, C. megaphylla Ahti & Marcelli, C. obscurata Ahti, C. obtecta Ahti, C. piedadensis Ahti, C. polystomata Ahti & Sipman, C. prancei Ahti, C. pumila Ahti, C. sipmanii Ahti, C. spathulata Ahti, C. tachirae Ahti, and Cladonia sect. Strepsiles Ahti. New nomenclatural combinations are Cladina arbuscula subsp. boliviana (Ahti) Ahti, C. arbuscula subsp. imshaugii (Ahti) Ahti, Cladonia anaemica (Nylander) Ahti, C. multipartita (Mller Argoviensis) Ahti, C. parvipes (Vainio) S. Stenroos, and C. pulverulenta (L. Scriba) Ahti. Many previously described taxa are reduced to synonymy. Keys are provided for the species. Synonymy, typifications, descriptions, secondary chemistry, distribution maps, habitats, economic uses, and a selection of herbarium voucher specimens are given for each species. Most of the species are restricted to the Neotropics and the greatest species diversity is found in southeast Brazil, the Guayana Shield, the northern Andes, and Hispaniola. /// Las Cladoniaceae (Ascomycota liquenizados: Lecanorales) de Amrica tropical y subtropical (Notropico) estn constituidas hasta el momento por 184 especies, distribuidas en cuatro gneros diferentes: Cladia Nylander, Cladina Nylander, Cladonia Hill ex. P. Browne y Pycnothelia Dufour. Se describen los siguientes 29 nuevos txones: Cladia globosa Ahti, Cladina arbuscula subsp. pachyderma Ahti, C. atrans Ahti, C. kalbii Ahti, C. kriegeri Ahti & S. Stenroos, Cladonia chimantae Ahti, C. cinerella Ahti, C. crustacea Ahti, C. curta Ahti & Marcelli, C. cyanescens Ahti, C. farinophylla Ahti, C. glabra Ahti, C. hians Ahti, C. huberi Ahti, C. itatiaiae Ahti & Marcelli, C. latiloba Ahti & Marcelli, C. lingulata Ahti, C. marcellii Ahti & S. Stenroos, C. megaphylla Ahti & Marcelli, C. obscurata Ahti, C. obtecta Ahti, C. piedadensis Ahti, C. polystomata Ahti & Sipman, C. prancei Ahti, C. pumila Ahti, C. sipmanii Ahti, C. spathulata Ahti, C. tachirae Ahti y Cladonia sect. Strepsiles Ahti. Se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones: Cladina arbuscula subsp. boliviana (Ahti) Ahti, C. arbuscula subsp. imshaugii (Ahti) Ahti, Cladonia anaemica (Nylander) Ahti, C. multipartita (Mller Argoviensis) Ahti, C. parvipes (Vainio) S. Stenroos y C. pulverulenta (L. Scriba) Ahti. Se establecen numerosas sinonimias para algunos txones descritos con anterioridad. Se incluyen claves para las especies y sus sinonimias. Para cada especie se realiza la tipificacin, descripcin, qumica, mapa de distribucin geogrfica y habitat, tambin se indican los herbarios donde estn depositados los pliegos. La mayor parte de las especies son endmicas para la regin neotropical, aunque algunas especies tienen reas de distribucin mas amplias. Destacan el sureste de Brasil, el Escudo de Guayana, el Norte de los Andes y las Antillas por presentar el mayor nmero de endemismos y la mayor diversidad. 
4393813| The present monograph comprises the revisions of two of the three Neotropical genera of the Cecropiaceae: Coussapoa and Pourouma. For Coussapoa 46 species are recognized at present; 15 of them have been described as new during the present study. All or most species are hemi-epiphytes. They have entire leaves and are dioecious. The small simple flowers are borne in uni- to pluricapitate inflorescences. The staminate flowers have one stamen or two or three connate stamens. The fruits are small. The genus ranges from southern Mexico to south-eastern Brazil and is absent in the West Indies. Most species are components of lowland rain forest habitats. Few species are wide-spread, most species have relatively small or even very small (known) ranges of distribution. The species are morphologically clear-cut and most of them rather uniform. For several reasons, e.g., lack of staminate material, the species are (provisionally) arranged in alphabetical sequences. Little is known about the biology of the genus. For Pourouma 25 species are presently recognized. Four taxa have been described as new during the preparation of this revision. All species are terrestrial, usually small to medium-sized trees. They have entire to palmately lobed to parted leaves and are dioecious. The pistillate flowers are pedicellate and are arranged in repeatedly branched to subumbellate inflorescences. The small staminate flowers are pedicellate or sessile and occur  loosely glomerate or in globose heads. The stamens are free in all species but one. The fruits are relatively large. The genus ranges from Central America to south-eastern Brazil and is absent in the West Indies. Most of them occur in  disturbed and/or  open places in lowland rain forest. Besides a number of clear-cut and slightly variable species the genus comprises a number of (very) variable and  complex species: P. bicolor, P. cucura, P. guianensis, P. melinonii, P. mollis, and P. tomentosa. The former three and the latter three species are often difficult to separate from each other (and some other species). These six taxa and some others show a considerable plasticity, especially with regard to the leaf shape, leaf dimension, and composition of the indument, and most prominently so in the Upper Amazon Basin. Little is known about the biology of the genus. P. cecropiifolia is in cultivation as a fruit tree. 
25660964|Costa, D. P. (Instituto de Pesquisas Jardim Botnico do Rio de Janeiro, Rua Pacheco Leo 915, 22460-030, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil). Metzgeriaceae (Hepaticae). Flora Neotropica Monograph 102: 1170. 2008. A famlia Metzgeriaceae (Hepaticae) est representada na Amrica Tropical por um gnero e 57 espcies. As espcies desta famlia so caracterizadas pela largura do talo, nmero de clulas da lmina da costa a margem, nmero de clulas da costa e medula, tamanho das clulas, verrucosidade da cutcula, tipo e disposio dos rizides no talo, gemas e sexualidade. A grande maioria dos txons ocorrem como epfitas nas florestas tropicais midas, entre 5004000 m de altitude. As espcies, em grande parte, esto restritas  Amrica Tropical, sendo a maior diversidade encontrada no Norte dos Andes e Galpagos, seguida pelo Caribe, Andes Central e Sudeste do Brasil. Nas regies secas, poucas espcies so encontradas. Cerca de 13% espcies da famlia esto limitadas s florestas tropicais midas no perturbadas e 39,7% esto includas em cinco categorias da IUCN. Quinze sinnimos so propostos neste estudo: M. arborescens (=M. filicina), M. bialata (=M. filicina), M. boliviana (=M. claviflora), M. ecuadorensis (=M. leptoneura), M. gigantea (=M. claviflora), M. gracilimascula (=M. pulvinata), M. herzogiana (=M. filicina), M. minor var. cyanogutta (=M. conjugata), M. nudicosta (=M. leptoneura), M. quadrifaria (=M. rufula), M. radicans var. peruviana (=M. innovans), M. schiffneri (=M. myriopoda), M. subinvoluta (=M. pulvinata), M. tonsa (=M. ciliata), M. wallisiana (=M. leptoneura). Costa, D. P. (Instituto de Pesquisas Jardim Botnico do Rio de Janeiro, Rua Pacheco Leo 915, 22460-030, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil). Metzgeriaceae (Hepaticae). Flora Neotropica Monograph 102: 1170. 2008. The family Metzgeriaceae (Hepaticae) is represented in tropical America by one genus, Metzgeria, and 57 species. The species of this family are distinguished according to width of thallus, number of laminal cells from midrib to margin, number of dorsal and ventral epidermal cells in the midrib, number of medulla cells, size of laminal cells, verruculosity of the cuticle, types and disposition of hairs in the thallus, gemmae, and sexuality. They are mostly epiphytes in humid, submontane to upper montane tropical forests, between 5004000 m elevation. Most of the species are restricted to tropical America and the highest species diversity is found in the northern Andes, followed by the West Indies, the central Andes, and southeastern Brazil. Few species are found in dry regions. About 13% of the species are limited to undisturbed tropical rainforest and 29.7% are included in one of the five IUCN threat categories. Fifteen new synonyms are proposed: M. arborescens (=M. filicina), M. bialata (=M. filicina), M. boliviana (=M. claviflora), M. ecuadorensis (=M. leptoneura), M. gigantea (=M. claviflora), M. gracilimascula (=M. pulvinata), M. herzogiana (=M. filicina), M. minor var. cyanogutta (=M. conjugata), M. nudicosta (=M. leptoneura), M. quadrifaria (=M. rufula), M. radicans var. peruviana (=M. innovans), M. schiffneri (=M. myriopoda), M. subinvoluta (=M. pulvinata), M. tonsa (=M. ciliata), and M. wallisiana (=M. leptoneura).
4393920| Duguetia, now including Pachypodanthium, is a genus with 93 species, 89 of which occur in the Neotropics, and the remaining four in Africa. Duguetia is the third largest genus of Annonaceae in the Neotropics, after Guatteria (265 species) and Annona (150 species). It is closest to the Amazonian genera Fusaea and Duckeanthus. No new species are proposed in the present monograph, but 25 new species have been published by Maas and co-workers in precursory papers over the last years. Two separate dichotomous keys to the species are provided, one for the Neotropics, and one for Africa, respectively. There is also a synoptical key for the Neotropical species. For each species a description, geographical and ecological notes, a distribution map, an illustration (for most of the species), and a list of herbarium specimens (or a representative selection thereof) are given. Whenever applicable, synonymy, chromosome number, notes on taxonomy and other topics are also provided. Overviews are given of the history, gross morphology, geography and ecology, systematics, economic uses, and conservation status of the genus. A collectors index and a list of vernacular names are appended. New data are presented on anatomy of leaf, wood, and bark, as well as on karyology, palynology, chemistry, and phylogeny. Also, there are new observations from the fields of floral biology and seed dispersal. /// El gnero Duguetia, que ahora incluye a Pachypodanthium, esta formado por 93 especies; de las cuales 89 son neotropicales y cuatro de Africa. Es el tercer gnero ms diverso de Annonaceae en el Neotropico, despus de Guatteria (265 spp.) y Annona (150 spp), y est ms relacionado con los gneros amaznicos Fusaea y Duckeanthus. En esta monografa no se propone ninguna especie nueva, sin embargo, en los ltimos aos Maas et al. han publicado 25 novedades taxonmicas. Se elabor una clave dicotmica y una sinptica para las especies neotropicales y, adems, una clave dicotmica para los taxones africanos. Para cada especie se presenta una descripcin, notas geogrficas y ecolgicas, un mapa de la distribucin, una ilustracin para la mayora de los taxones y una lista de los especimenes de herbario. En algunos casos se presenta la sinonimia, el nmero de cromosomas y notas taxonmicas, entre otros. Para el gnero se presentan aspectos de la historia taxonmica, morfologa, geografa, ecologa, usos econmicos, y estado de conservacin, adems, se muestran nuevos datos de anatoma de la hoja, la madera y la corteza; as como de filogena, cariologa, palinologa, qumica, y observaciones de biologa floral y dispersin de semillas. Un ndice de colectores y una lista de nombres vernculos aparecen al final del tratamiento. /// Duguetia, Duguetia, incluindo agora Pachypodanthium,  um gnero de 93 especies, 89 das quais crescem nos Neotrpicos e s 4 na Africa. Em tamanho  o terceiro gnero das Annonaceae nos Neotrpicos depois de Guatteria (265 espcies) e Annona (150 espcies), e  mais afim aos gneros Amaznicos Fusaea e Duckeanthus. Nesta monografia nenhumo taxon novo  apresentado, desdeque nos ltimos anos 25 espcies novas foram publicadas por Maas e scios em papeis preliminares. Duas chaves dictomas so fornecidas, uma para as espcies Neotropicais, e outra para as 4 espcies Africanas. Tambem uma chave sinptica para as espcies Neotropicais  fornecida. Para cada espcie uma descrio completa, com notas geogrficas e ecolgicas, um mapa de distribuio, uma illustrao (para a grande maioria) e uma lista ou seleo representiva de espcimes de herbria  feita. Quando possivel sinonimia, nmero cromosmico e notcias taxonmicas so dadas. Sumrios da histria do gnero, sua morfologia geral, distribuio, ecologia, posio sistemtica, usos econmicos e estado de conservao so ofericidas. Dados novos so apresentados sbre anatomia de folhas, madeira e casca, como tambem nas reas de cariologia, palinologia, qumica e filogenia. Novas observaes sbre biologia floral e disperso de sementes so relatadas. Um index de coletores e uma lista de nomes vernaculares concluem a obra. 
4393896| The family Vitaceae is represented in the Neotropics by four genera, three treated here and Vitis which is a taxon principally from temperate North America, and has few species in Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean, and Northwestern South America. The genus Ampelocissus is chiefly Asiatic and African but is represented in Central America and the Caribbean by four species. Ampelopsis is mainly Asiatic but has two species in temperate North America and only one occurring in Mexico. Cissus is the largest genus in the family and is pantropical with ca. 350 species. In the Neotropics 75 species were found that grow from South Florida to Chile and Argentinean Patagonia. The genus showed the largest diversity centers in Mexico and Central America, with eight endemic species, in the Caribbean, with five microendemics, and mainly in South America, with 48 endemic species. Three new species are described for Cissus, and five lectotypes are designated. /// A famlia Vitaceae  representada na regio neotropical por quatro gneros, trs aqui tratados e Vitis, que  um taxon principalmente temperado norte americano, com poucas espcies no Mxico, Amrica Central, Caribe, e noroeste da Amrica do Sul. O gnero Ampelocissus  na maioria asitico e africano, mas  representado na Amrica Central e Caribe por quatro espcies. Ampelopsis  principalmente asitico com duas espcies na Amrica do Norte temperada e apenas uma ocorrendo no Mxico. Cissus  pantropical e  o maior gnero da famlia, com ca. 350 espcies. Na regio neotropical 75 espcies foram encontradas ocorrendo do sul da Flrida ao Chile e Patagnia Argentina. O gnero mostrou os maiores centros de diversidade no Mxico e Amrica Central, com oito espcies endmicas, no Caribe, com cinco endmicas, e principalmente na Amrica do Sul, com 48 espcies endmicas. Trs espcies novas so descritas para Cissus, e cinco lecttipos so designados. 
4393947| The liverworts or Hepaticae are traditionally subdivided into two subclasses, Jungermanniidae (four to five orders) and Marchantiidae (three orders). This monograph of the neotropical Marchantiidae treats 103 species in two orders: Marchantiales and Monocleales. Marchantiales are represented in the Neotropics by 102 species, in 18 genera, and include 11 families. The majority of the genera have only few species, with 14 genera comprising fewer than 6 species and 3 genera 8-10 species. More than half of the neotropical species of Marchantiales belong to the genus Riccia (53 species). Monocleales are represented in the Neotropics by a single species. The third order of the Marchantiidae, Sphaerocarpales, is not yet known with certainty from the Neotropics but is expected to occur in the region. All species of Marchantiidae are terrestrial or saxicolous, and they often grow in harsh, disturbed biotopes. Many are able to withstand strong illumination and drastic diurnal temperature changes; drought tolerance of gametophytes and spores is common. Gametophytes may be able to resume growth after months of drought, and spores may take advantage of briefly favorable conditions to germinate, producing fast-maturing plants with sporophytes. Twenty-six species have wide transoceanic ranges and occur on several continents. About half of these are widely distributed within the Neotropics; the others, preferring a Mediterranean type of climate, are confined to the northern, or to the northern and the southern borders of the area and are absent from the tropical zone. The remaining species (76) and one genus of Marchantiidae, Cronisia, are restricted to tropical America. Twenty-six of these may qualify as endemics, having very restricted distributions within the Neotropics. The endemics are found in all areas except on the Guyana shield and on the smaller West Indian islands. More than half of the endemic species (18) belong to the genus Riccia. One new endemic species is proposed: Mannia hegewaldii. Highest species diversity is observed in areas with dry seasons, such as dry parts of Mexico and Central America (64 species) and the lowlands of Brazil and Argentina (65 species). Less drought-tolerant species are distributed predominantly in the Andes (47 species). In contrast to leafy liverworts and mosses, species diversity is higher in the lowlands than in the mountains. A total of 83 species are found in the lowland, 56 in the lower montane, 42 in the upper montane, and 15 in the subalpine and alpine belts. The classifications of the Marchantiidae, including the one in current use, are usually based primarily on gametangial characteristics. Two main evolutionary hypotheses were postulated in the past: (1) the progressive specialization hypothesis, postulating the evolution of plants with archegoniophores from plants without them, and (2) the progressive reduction hypothesis, postulating evolution in the opposite direction (development of plants without archegoniophores from those having them). Interestingly, phylogenetic analysis using structural data (morphology, anatomy, development) lends support to the progressive specialization hypothesis, with Monocleales and Sphaerocarpales being sister groups to the monophyletic Marchantiales, but molecular analysis supports the progressive reduction theory. Monocleales and Sphaerocarpales are unequivocally nested within the Marchantiales in the molecular tree. It appears that the traditionally recognized orders and families of the Marchantiidae as well as the delimitation of some of the genera in this group are not supported by molecular data. /// Las hepticas o Hepaticae se subdividen, tradicionalmente, en dos subclases, Jungermanniidae (4-5 rdenes) y la Marchantiidae (3 rdenes). Esta monografa de la Marchantiidae neotropical trata 103 especies en dos rdenes, Marchantiales y Monocleales. Los Marchantiales estn representados en el Neotrpico por 103 especies en 18 gneros, 11 familias y cuatro subrdenes. La mayora de los gneros tienen pocas especies: catorce gneros incluyen menos de 6 especies, tres gneros, 8-10 especies. Ms de la mitad de las especies neotropicales de Marchantiales pertenecen al gnero Riccia (53 especies). Los Monocleales estn representados en el Neotrpico por una sola especie. El tercer orden de la Marchantiidae, Sphaerocarpales, no se conoce con certeza para el Neotrpico pero se puede esperar que est presente en la regin. Todas las especies de Marchantiidae son terrestres o saxcolas y a menudo crecen en biotopos perturbados y difciles. Muchas son capaces de soportar una fuerte iluminacin y cambios diurnos drsticos de temperatura: es comn la tolerancia a la desecacin de los gametofitos y esporas. Sin embargo, ya que la fertilizacin requiere agua, todos los taxa son, al menos temporalmente, higrfitos. Los gametofitos pueden reasumir su crecimiento despus de meses de sequa y las esporas pueden tomar ventaja de condiciones favorables de corto tiempo para germinar, produciendo plantas que maduran rpido con esporofitos. Veintisis especies tienen rangos de distribucin transocenicos extensos, y se presentan en varios continentes. Cerca de la mitad de stas se distribuyen ampliamente en el Neotrpico, las otras, que prefieren un tipo de clima mediterrneo, estn confinadas al borde norte o norte y sur del rea y estn ausentes de la zona tropical. El resto de las especies (76) y un gnero de Marchantiidae, Cronisia, estn restringidas a la Amrica tropical. Veintisis de stas pueden calificar como endmicas con distribuciones muy restringidas en el Neotrpico. Las endmicas se encuentran en todas las reas excepto en el macizo de la Guyana y en las pequeas islas de las Indias Occidentales. Ms de la mitad de las especies endmicas (18) pertenecen al genero Riccia. Se propone una nueva especie endmica: Mannnia hegewaldii. Se observa una alta diversidad de especies en reas con estaciones secas, e.g., partes secas de Amrica Central (64 especies) y las tierras bajas de Brasil y Argentina (65 especies). Las especies menos tolerantes a la desecacin estn distribuidas predominantemente en los Andes (47 especies). En contraste con las hepticas foliosas y los musgos, la diversidad de especies es mayor en las tierras bajas que en las montaas. Ochenta y tres especies se encuentran en las tierras bajas, 56 en zonas montano bajas, 42 en las montano altas y 15 en las fajas subalpina y alpina. Las clasificaciones de la Marchantiidae, incluyendo la de uso actual, usualmente se basan en caractersticas gametangiales. En el pasado, se postularon dos hiptesis evolutivas principales, 1) la hiptesis de la especializacin progresiva, que postula la evolucin de las plantas con arquegoniforos a partir de plantas sin ellos, y 2) la hiptesis de la reduccin progresiva, que postula la evolucin en la direccin opuesta (el desarrollo de plantas sin arquegoniforos a partir de aqullas que los tienen). Es interesante que el anlisis filogentico utilizando datos estructurales (morfologa, anatoma, y desarrollo) apoya la hiptesis de la especializacin progresiva, con los Monocleales y Sphaerocarpales como el grupo hermano de los Marchantiales monofilticos, pero el anlisis molecular apoya la hiptesis de reduccin progresiva. Los Monocleales y Sphaerocarpales estn inequvocamente anidados dentro de los Marchantiales en el rbol molecular. Parece que los rdenes, subrdenes y familias de la Marchantiidae reconocidos tradicionalmente, as como la delimitacin de algunos gneros en este grupo no son apoyados por los datos moleculares. 
4393834| The Calymperaceae (Musci) are acrocarpous mosses, mostly dioicous and with erect stems, predominantly corticolous, and largely restricted to the tropics and subtropics worldwide. The family is characterized by the uniform presence in the clasping leaf bases of cancellinae (fields of enlarged, hyaline, externally and internally porose cells), lack of stem central strand, mostly thickened and toothed leaf margins, peristome single (or lacking), and common production of uniseriate gemmae on the leaves. The Calymperaceae are most closely related to the Pottiaceae, from which they differ in no single character. The traditional family Calymperaceae is represented in the neotropics by 55 specific and subspecific taxa in two genera: Calymperes (16 species) and Syrrhopodon (39 species and taxonomic varieties). Nine species of Calymperes and 30 species and varieties of Syrrhopodon are endemic to the neotropics; the other taxa also occur outside of the neotropics including some that are more or less pantropical and some disjunct in Africa. /// Los Calymperaceae (Musci) son musgos acrocrpicos, su mayora dioicos y con tallos erectos, predominantemente cortcicolas, y en gran parte restrictos a las zonas tropicales y subtropicales del mundo. La familia se caracteriza por la presencia uniforme de cancelinos (grandes clulas hialinas, externa e internamente porosas) en la base ciente de las hojas, ausencia de cordn central en el tallo, margen de hojas principalmente engrosado y dentado, peristoma simple (o ausente) y comn produccin de yemas uniseriadas en las hojas. Los Calymperaceae se parecen ms a los Pottiaceae, de los que no se diferencian en una caracterstica comn. La familia Calymperaceae tradicional est representada en el neotrpico por 55 taxa especficas o subespecficas en dos gneros: Calymperes (16 especies) y Syrrhopodon (39 especies y variedades taxonmicas). Nueve especies de Calymperes y 30 especies y variedades de Syrrhopodon son endmicas del neotrpico; las otras taxa tambin ocurren fuera del neotrpico, incluyendo algunas que son ms o menos pantropicales y algunas dislocadas en Africa. 
4393899| The Buddlejaceae are a small family comprising eight genera and 125 species, approximately half of which inhabit the New World. In this monograph, 67 species of Buddleja, (including 4 adventive Old World taxa), 2 species of Emorya, and the more remotely related monotypic genera, Polypremum and Peltanthera, are treated. The genus Sanango has recently been reclassified in the Gesneriaceae. The four centers of species diversity for New World Buddleja are in SE Brazil (20%), the Andes (50%), Central America (10%), and Mexico and SW U.S. (20%). Many species are shrubs which inhabit xeric or subxeric habitats. The tree species are montane, growing primarily at 2000-4000 m. The introductory section summarizes information on morphology for all the genera and gives a new infrageneric classification of Buddleja. A chapter on chemistry is provided by S. R. Jensen. Two new species of Buddleja are described, B. cardenasii and B. vexans; one new subspecies is described, B. skutchii subsp. costaricensis; and a new combination is made, B. cordata subsp. ovandensis. /// Buddlejaceae son una familia menor de ocho generos y de 125 especies, de cuales aproximadamente la mitad habita el Nuevo Mundo. En este tratado, se encuentran 67 especies de Buddleja, incluyendo 4 especies originarias del Viejo Mundo, 2 especies de Emorya y los gneros monotipcos de ms lejana relacin, Polypremum y Peltanthera. El genero Sanango ha sido re-classificado en las Gesneriaceae. Los cuatro centros de diversidad especifica de los Buddlejas del Nuevo Mundo estn en el sureste de Brazil (20%), los Andes (50%), Mesoamerica (10%), y (20%) en Mxico y el suroeste de los Estados Unidos. Muchos especies son arbustos que habitan areas xericos o subxericos. Los especies arboreas son de montaa, creciendo principalmente en alturas de 2000 a 4000 metros. La introduccin preliminar sumariza la informacion morfolgica de todos los gneros e indica una nueva clasificacin infragenrica de Buddleja. Un captulo sobre la qumica se provee el S. R. Jensen. Esta obra contiene descripciones de dos nuevas especies, B. cardenasii y B. vexans y una nueva subespecie B. skutchii subesp. costaricensis, y una nueva combinacin, B. cordata subesp. ovandensis. 
4393959|The Fissidentaceae (Bryophyta) are acrocarpous mosses of which the majority of species are found in the tropics. These mosses are found at elevations from sea level to 4000m, and in both aquatic and terrestrial habitats. The family, consisting of only the genus Fissidens, is characterized by a stem that after the initial stages grows from a two-sided apical cell, equitant and distichous leaves, a unique leaf structure consisting of a dorsal lamina, a ventral lamina and two vaginant laminae, and a single peristome of 16 teeth. The Fissidentaceae are closely related to the Dicranaceae, from which they are distinguished principally by leaf structure. Fissidens is represented in the Neotropics by 93 species, of which 58 species (62%) are endemic. One new species, F. ecuadorensis, is described. Four new synonyms and 23 new lectotypes are designated. A few temperate species extend into the Neotropics, usually at higher elevations, and a few Neotropical species extend into the temperate regions of North America. A few species are pantropical, while others are found in Europe, Africa, Asia, and Australia. /// Los Fissidentaceae (Bryophyta) son musgos acrocrpicos; su mayora se encuentran en las zonas tropicales. La familia, con el nico gnero Fissidens, se catacteriza por el tallo de crecimiento despues su crecimiento inicial de una cellula apical de dos caras; las hojas equitantes y disticas; la nica estructura foliar de una lamina dorsal, una lamina ventral, y dos laminas vaginados; y un peristoma de 16 dientes. Los Fissidentaceae son estrechamente relacionado a los Dicranaceae, que es distingida principlamente por la estructura foliar. El gnero Fissidens est representada en el neotrpico por unas 93 especies, de cuales 58 especies (62%) son endmicas. Se describe una nueva especies para la ciencia, F. ecuadorensis. Quatros nuevos sinnimos y 23 nievos lectotpos se presentan en esta obra. Pocas especies de las zona templadas ocurren en los neotrpicos, normalmente en las elevaciones altas, y pocas espcies Neotropicales ocurren en las zonas templadas de Amrica del Norte. Algunos otras especies son pantropicales, mientras otras ocurren en Europa, Africa, Asia y Australia.
4393822| The Campylopodioideae and Paraleucobryoideae are closely related subfamilies of the Dicranaceae (Musci). Within the Dicranaceae, both are characterized by a broad costa with a high variation in anatomical structures. The Campylopodioideae in the Neotropics consist of eight genera: Atractylocarpus Williams with three species, Bryohumbertia Portier de la Varde & Thriot with one, Campylopodium (C. Mller) Bescherelle with one, Campylopus Bridel with 65, Dicranodontium Bruch, Schimper & Gmbel with four, Microcampylopus (C. Mller) Fleischer with one, Pilopogon Bridel with six, and Sphaerothecium with one species. The Paraleucobryoideae in the Neotropics consist of three genera: Brothera C. Mller with one species, Campylopodiella Cardot with two, and Paraleucobryum (Limpricht) Loeske with two species. All 87 species, as well as infraspecific taxa are described and illustrated. /// Campylopodioideae y Paraleucobryoideae son subfamilias estrechamente afines a las Dicranaceae (Musci). Dentro de las Dicranaceae ambas subfamilias se caracterizan por una costa ancha con una gran variacin de estructuras anatmicas. Las Campylopodioideae en los Neotrpicos consisten de 8 gneros: Atractylocarpus Williams con 3 especies, Bryohumbertia Portier de la Varde & Thriot con 1 especie, Campylopodium (C. Mller) Bescherelle con 1 especie, Campylopus Bridel con 65 especies, Dicranodontium Bruch, Schimper & Gmbel con 4 especies, Microcampylopus (C. Mller) Fleischer con 1 especie, Pilopogon Bridel con 6 especies y Sphaerothecium con 1 especie. La Paraleucobryoideae en los Neotrpicos consiste de 3 gneros: Brothera C. Mller con 1 especie, Campylopodiella Cardot con 2 especies y Paraleucobryum (Limpricht) Loeske con 2 especies. Todas las 87 especies as como los taxones infraespecficos estn descritos e ilustrados. 
20749542|Only 13 of the 21 or so genera segregated from Stereum s.l. have taxa that occur in the Neotropics: Amylostereum (1 taxon), Aquascypha (2), Chondrostereum (1), Coralloderma (3, 1 comb. nov.), Cotylidia (3), Cystostereum (4, 1 comb. nov.), Cymatoderma (8, 2 comb. nov.), Hydnopolyporus (2, 1 stat. nov.), Inflatostereum (1), Lopharia s.l. (10, including 3 new combinations), Podoscypha (19), Stereopsis (3), and Stereum (6). The majority of these genera have only one to five species in the Neotropics, mostly found at higher elevations. Most species of Cymatoderma, Lopharia, and Podoscypha occur in the tropics of both hemispheres. Hydnopolyporus and Cotylidia are moved to an emended Aphelariaceae, and only Cymatoderma and Podoscypha are retained within an emended Podoscyphaceae. Coralloderma and Stereopsis appear to be members of the Gomphaceae, Chondrostereum is in the Meruliaceae, Cystostereum is in the Cystostereaceae, and Stereum is in the Stereaceae. Molecular studies join the majority of the species of Amylostereum with the Echinodontiaceae. The affinities of Aquascypha, Inflatostereum, and Lopharia s.l. are in doubt. Entre los vientiun gneros que han sido separados de Stereum s.l. no hay ms de trece con especies se encuentran en los Neotrpicos: Amylostereum (1 taxon), Aquascypha (2), Chondrostereum (1), Coralloderma (3, 1 comb. nov.), Cotylidia (3), Cystostereum (4, 1 comb. nov.), Cymatoderma (8, 2 comb. nov.), Hydnopolyporus (2, 1 stat. nov.), Inflatostereum (1), Lopharia s.l. (10), Podoscypha (19), Stereopsis (3), y Stereum (6). La mayora de estos gneros tienen de una a cinco especies en los Neotrpicos, usualmente se encuentran en elevaciones altos. Sin embargo, de las mayora de especies de Cymatoderma, Lopharia s.l., y Podoscypha se encuentran en los trpicos de los dos hemisferios. Las familias Aphelariaceae y Podoscyphaceae son emendadas. Los gneros Hydnopolyporus y Cotylidia son agregados a la primera, y slo Cymatoderma y Podoscypha se quedan en Podoscyphaceae. Coralloderma y Stereopsis estan in la Gomphaceae, Chondrostereum est en la Meruliaceae, Cystostereum en la Cystostereaceae, y Stereum en la Stereaceae. Estudios moleculares juntan la mayora de especies de Amylostereum con la Echinodontiaceae. Las afinidades de Aquascypha, Inflatostereum y Lopharia s.l. son dudosas.
4393944|A taxonomic revision of Drosera, the only genus of Droseraceae found in the Neotropics, is presented. The subgenus Drosera and three sections: Drosera, Meristocaulis Maguire & Wurdack, y Thelocalyx Planchon occur in the region. This treatment includes full synonymy, typification, descriptions, and illustrations for 20 species. /// Se presenta una revisin del gnero Drosera nico representante de la familia Droseraceae en el neotrpico, en donde solo aparece el subgnero Drosera y tres secciones: Drosera, Meristocaulis Maguire & Wurdack, y Thelocalyx Planchon. En esta monografa se presenta sinonimia completa, tipificacin, descripcin e ilustraciones de las 20 especies incluidas.
4393819| An introduction is given to New World Arecaceae. A general history of palm taxonomy in the region is followed by a discussion of morphology and pollen morphology, anatomy, cytology, and chemistry, the fossil record and biogeography, ecology and evolution, and uses, domestication, and conservation. A table is given which provides the estimated number of species (approximately 800 total), and the most recent monograph of all 71 genera of New World palms. The introduction is concluded with a key to all genera of New World palms. The main part of the work consists of a taxonomic revision of four genera of palms comprising the subtribe Iriarteinae (Dictyocaryum, Iriartea, Iriartella and Socratea). Their morphology, pollen morphology, anatomy, cytology, fossil record, phylogeny, historical biogeography, reproductive biology, and interactions, are reviewed. Three species of Dictyocaryum are recognized. These are predominantly large canopy palms occurring at altitudes between 1000 and 2000 m in mountainous areas of South America. One species of Iriartea is recognized, a large canopy palm of Central and northern South America, usually below 1000 m altitude. Two species of Iriartella are recognized, both of which are small understory palms of low elevations in the western Amazon basin. Five species of Socratea are recognized. One species is widespread in Central and South America, but the other four are narrower endemics of the Andes and adjacent regions. Although these four genera have been recognized as a subtribe, it is concluded that they represent a paraphyletic group. /// Se da una introduccin para las palmas del Nuevo Mundo. Un recuento histrico general sobre la taxonoma de las palmas en la regin, es seguido por una discusin general sobre morfologa, palinologa, anatoma, citologa, qumica, registros fsiles y biogeografia, ecologa y evolucin, usos, domesticacin, usos, domesticacin y conservacin. Se presenta una tabla con los 71 gneros de palmas del Nuevo Mundo, y para cada uno de ellos se da el nmero estimado de especies (aproximadamente 800 en total), y las monografias ms recientes. La introduccin termina con una clave para todos los gneros de palmas del Nuevo Mundo. La mayor parte del trabajo consiste en una revisin taxonmica de los cuatro gneros de palmas que comprenden la subtribu Iriarteinae (Dictyocaryum, Iriartea, Iriartella, y Socratea). Se revisan diferentes aspectos sobre la morfologa general, morfologa del polen, anatoma, citologa, registros fsiles, filogenia, historia biogeogrfica, biologa reproductiva, e interacciones. Se reconocen tres especies de Dictyocaryum, las cuales son palmas de gran tamao, que crecen, en su mayora, en las reas montaosas de Suramrica, a elevaciones entre 1000 y 2000 metros. Se reconoce una especie de Iriartea, una palma alta, de Centroamrica y el norte de Suramrica, usualmente por debajo de 1000 metros de elevacin. Se reconocen dos especies de Iriartella, ambas palmas de porte pequeo, propias del sotobosque, usualmente a bajas elevaciones en las regiones occidentales de la Amazona. En Socratea se reconocen cinco especies. Una de ellas, ampliamente distribuda en Centroamrica y Suramrica, las otras cuatro con distribucin ms restringida, endmicas de los Andes y regiones adyacentes. Aunque estos cuatro gneros han sido reconocidos como una subtribu, se concluye aqu que ellos representan un grupo parafiltico. 
29534143|Sthl, B. (Deparment of Biology, Gotland University, SE 621 67 Visby, Sweden). Theophrastaceae. Flora Neotropica 105: 1-161. 2010.A taxonomic monograph of the neotropical family Theophrastaceae recognizes seven genera, viz., Bonellia with 20 species distributed in Mesoamerica, the Greater Antilles, and northern South America; Clavija with 56 species distributed from Nicaragua to northern Paraguay and one species in Haiti; Deherainia with two species in Mesoamerica; Jacquinia with 13 species in the Antilles and South America; Neomezia with one species in Cuba; Theophrasta with two species in Hispaniola; and Votschia with one species in Panama. Most species grow in lowland areas with a seasonal, dry climate in habitats such as coastal thickets, dry shrub vegetation, or dry deciduous or semideciduous forests. However, many species of Clavija are distributed in lower montane and lowland rain forests. The family is characterized by having extraxylary, subepidermal sclerenchyma forming layers or bundles of fiber cells on one or both sides of the leaf, robust floweres with staminodial appendages merged with the corolla tube, and anthers partly filled with accumulations of calcium oxalate crystals. All species are woody plants, ranging in habit from dwarf shrubs to small trees 10-15 m tall. Clavija, Neomezia, and Theophrasta are pachycaulous without or with only very few side branches, whereas the other genera are more or less densely branched shrubs and small trees. The flowers of Deherainia, Neomezia, and Theophrasta have a foetid scent associated with myophily and sapromyophily, whereas the other genera, with a few exceptions, have flowers with a fruity or perfumed scent. The fruits are generally few-seeded and berrylike with a leathery or woody pericarp and a juicy, mostly sweet, placental pulp. The family is centered in the Caribbean area, with most genera and species occuring in the Antilles or Mesoamerica. It probably has an origin in tropical North America, and the radiation and diversification of Clavija on the South American continent is likely relatively recent and largely connected to the Andean orogeny. Sthl, B. (Department of Biology, Gotland University, SE 621 67 Visby, Sweden). Theophrastaceae. Flora Neotropica 105: 1-161. 2010.Se presenta una monografa taxonmica de la familia neotropical Theophrastaceae. La familia incluye siete gneros, Bonellia con 20 especies en Mesoamrica, las Antillas Mayores, y el norte de Sudamrica; Clavija con 56 especies en Centro Amrica, Sudamrica, y Hait; Deherainia con dos especies en Mesoamrica; Jacquinia con 13 especies en las Antillas y Sudamrica; Neomezia con un especie en Cuba; Theophrasta con does especies en La Espaola (Repblica Dominicana y Hai); y Votschia con una especie en Panam. La mayora de las especies se encuentran en zonas bajas con un clima seco estacional, incluyendo hbitats como matorral costero, matorral seco espinoso, y bosque deciduo o semideciduo. Sin embargo, muchas espeices de Clavija se encuentran en bosque lluvioso montano bajo y bosque lluvioso de tierras bajas. La familia se caracteriza por tener esclernquima subepidrmico formando capas o paquetes fibrosos en embos lados de la lmina folia, flores robustas con estaminodios fusionados al tubo de la corolla, y anteras con acumulaciones de cristales de oxalato de calcio. Todas las especies son leosas, varan desde arbustos enanos hasta arbolitos de 1015 m de altura. Clavija, Neomezia, y Theophrasta son paquicaulos sin o con pocas ramas mientras los otros gneros son ms o menos densamente ramificados. Las flores de Deherainia, Neomezia, y Theophrasta tienen un olor poco agradable asociado con myofilia o sapromyofila, mientras los otros gneros, con pocas excepciones, tienen flores con un olor a fruta o un olor perfumado. Los frutos son bayas con un pericarpio seco y generalmente pocas semillas sumergidas en una pulpa dulce. La familia tiene su centro de diversidad en el norte del Neotrpico con la mayora de los gneros y de las especies presentes en las Antillas y en Mesoamrica. Es posible que la familia tenga su origen en el rea trpica de Amrica del Norte y que la radiacim y diversificacon de Clavija en Amrica del Sur es un suceso relativamente reciente asociado con la orogenia de los Andes.
4393848| The genus Cyphomandra (Solanaceae) includes about 35 species of shrubs and small trees native to the Neotropics. Cyphomandra ranges from Mexico to northern Argentina and east to southeastern Brazil. Most species are small trees that exploit light gaps in the primary forest. Several species are grown for their edible fruits and one, Cyphomandra betacea, the tree tomato or tamarillo, is cultivated worldwide in tropical and subtropical areas. This species is currently known only from cultivation. This monograph covers aspects of the taxonomic history, morphology, ecology, reproductive biology, infrageneric relationships, biogeography, and uses of Cyphomandra. Thirty-two species are recognized in this treatment, and two insufficiently known taxa are discussed. Five informal species groups are described. All issues of nomenclature and typification pertaining to the genus are comprehensively examined. The genus is defined on the basis of the enlarged anther connective. In addition, the unusually large chromosomes of Cyphomandra are useful in generic delimitation. Unusual ecological aspects of Cyphomandra include its pollination syndrome and herbivore relationships. Male euglossine bees may be important pollinators of Cyphomandra flowers, and the primary attractants may not be pollen, but odor substances secreted by the anther connectives. Specialized herbivores known for Cyphomandra are larvae of neotropical butterflies of the nymphalid subfamily Ithomiinae. Further examination of these plant/insect relationships may elucidate the functional significance of the anther connective in pollination and provide insight into the comparative chemistry of Cyphomandra alkaloids. /// El gnero Cyphomandra (Solanaceae) incluye cerca de 35 especies neotropicales de arbustos y rboles pequeos. La distribucin de Cyphomandra va desde Mxico hasta el norte de Argentina y al este hasta el sureste de Brasil. La mayora de las especies son rboles pequeos que ocupan los claros del bosque primario. Algunas especies se cultivan por sus frutos comestibles y Cyphomandra betacea, el tomate de rbol o tamarillo, se cultiva en las regiones tropicales y subtropicales del mundo. Actualmente esta especie no se conoce en forma salvaje y la informacin acerca de ella proviene slo de ejemplares cultivados. Esta monografa comprende aspectos de la historia taxonmica, morfologa, ecologa, biologa reproductiva, relaciones infragenricas, biogeografa, y los usos de Cyphomandra. Treinta y dos de estas especies estn reconocidas formalmente en este trabajo, y adems se proporciona informacin sobre los dos taxa que poco se conocen. Se describen cinco grupos de especies, pero no se establecen categoras infragenricas formales. Todos los aspectos de nomenclatura y clasificacin acerca del gnero son examinados ampliamente. El gnero se distingue por el engrosamiento del tejido conectivo de las anteras y sus cromosomas excepcionalmente grandes. Algunos aspectos ecolgicos extraordinarios de Cyphomandra son el sndrome de polinizacin y las relaciones con los herbvoros. Abejas machos euglossines pueden ser polinizadores importantes de las flores de Cyphomandra, y la atraccin primaria puede no ser el polen, sino substancias odorferas secretadas por los conectivos de las anteras. Las larvas de mariposas neotropicales de la subfamilia Ithomiinae de las Nymphalidae son herbvoros especializados en Cyphomandra. El reconocimiento adicional de estas relaciones entre plantas e insectos puede aclarar el significado funcional del conectivo de la antera en la polinizacin y dar informacin sobre la qumica comparativa de los alcaloides de Cyphomandra. 
23350499|Gunnera, el nico gnero de la familia Gunneraceae, se distribuye en Centro y Sur Amrica (incluido el Archipilago de Juan Fernndez), Hawaii, SE frica, Malaya, Tasmania y Nueva Zelandia. El gnero consta de seis subgneros, Gunnera, Milligania, Misandra, Ostenigunnera, Panke y Pseudo-gunnera, de los cuales nicamente los subgneros Misandra (1 sp.) y Panke (40 spp.) se encuentran en el neotrpico. Las especies neotropicales suman ms del 70% del total de especies de Gunnera. Las plantas de Gunnera son generalmente rosetas gigantes, rizomatosas, decumbentes o subdecumbentes; rara vez son hierbas estolonferas pequeas. En la presente monografa se incluyen tambin seis especies de la franja extratropical de Sur Amrica, cuatro del subgnero Panke (G. bracteata, G. masafuerae, G. peltata y G. tinctoria), la especie restante del subgnero Misandra (G. lobata), y la nica especie del subgnero Ostenigunnera (G. herteri), esta ltima la que contiene las plantas ms pequeas del gnero. Entre las particularidades de las plantas de Gunnera se destaca la endosimbiosis (nica en Angiospermas) con Nostoc punctiforme, una cianobacteria fijadora de nitrgeno atmosfrico; a esta relacin se atribuyen ciertas caractersticas de Gunnera, como la capacidad de ocupar y establecerse como especies pioneras en hbitat nuevos, cuyos suelos resultan inadecuados para otros grupos de plantas concurrentes. La primera parte de la presente monografa trata la historia taxonmica, morfologa, biologa floral, reproduccin, dispersin, anatoma, cariologa, embriologa, palinologa, filogenia, biogeografa, ecologa, endosimbiosis, conservacin, usos y recomendaciones a tener en cuenta al coleccionar Gunnera. La segunda parte consta de un tratamiento sistemtico de Gunnera en las Amricas, que incluye claves a nivel de subgnero, especie y taxones infraespecficos, descripciones, aspectos nomenclaturales, ilustraciones, mapas de distribucin, usos y nombres vernculos. Los nombres G. ecuadoriana Gilli, G. insignis f. albovariegata L.D. Gmez y G. plicata Vahl se reducen a la sinonimia de G. brephogea Linden & Andr, G. insignis (Oerst.) A.DC. y G. magellanica Lam., respectivamente. Gunnera, the only genus in the family Gunneraceae is present in Central and South America (including the Juan Fernandez Islands), Hawaii, SE Africa, Malaya, Tasmania, and New Zealand. The genus consists of six subgenera, Gunnera, Milligania, Misandra, Ostenigunnera, Panke, and Pseudo-gunnera; of these, Misandra (1 sp.) and Panke (40 spp.) are present in the Neotropics. The neotropical species represent more than 70% of the total number of species in Gunnera. The plants of Gunnera are generally giant rosettes, with decumbent or subdecumbent rhizomes; less often, they are small stoloniferous herbs. The present monograph includes also six extratropical species from South America (four of which belong to the subgenus Panke, G. bracteata, G. masafuerae, G. peltata, and G. tinctoria), one species of the subgenus Misandra (G. lobata), and the sole species of the subgenus Ostenigunnera (G. herteri), which has the smallest plants in the genus. One of the distinctive characters of Gunnera, which is unique in angiosperms, consists of the endosymbiosis with the cyanobacteria Nostoc punctiforme. This symbiosis is responsible for some ecological features such as the ability to occupy new habitats as pioneer species where soils are inadequate for other plants. The first part of this monograph deals with aspects of taxonomic history, morphology, floral biology, reproduction, dispersion, anatomy, caryology, embryology, palynology, phylogeny, biogeography, ecology, symbiosis, conservation, uses, and recommendations for collecting Gunnera. The second part comprises a systematic treatment of Gunnera in the Americas, which includes keys to the subgenera, species and infraspecific taxa, descriptions, nomenclatural aspects, illustrations, maps of distribution, uses, and local names. The names G. ecuadoriana Gilli, G. insignis f. albovariegata L.D. Gmez and G. plicata Vahl are reduced to the synonymy of G. brephogea Linden & Andr, G. insignis (Oerst.) A.DC., and G. magellanica Lam., respectively.
4393851|The Alismataceae are aquatic or semi-aquatic herbs with erect or floating leaves and grow as amphiphytes or hydrophytes. The family consists of 11 genera and about 75 species native to tropical, subtropical, and subtemperate regions in both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres. Two genera of the family, Echinodorus and Sagittaria, are known from the Neotropics. Echinodorus, a genus of 26 species, is restricted to the Western Hemisphere, with all species known from the Neotropics. Sagittaria, a genus of approximately 25 species, is subcosmopolitan, with 14 species known from the Neotropics. Keys to taxa, descriptions of all taxa, illustrations, and documented distribution maps for all species and subspecies are included.
4393816|A monograph of Neotropical Sapotaceae with a systematic treatment of 396 species, including chapters on taxonomic history, morphology, variation and distribution and pollen. Full descriptions are given for all species, as well as generic and species keys. Seventy-one new species and five new subspecies are described in this work.
4393839| Nectandra is the second largest genus of Lauraceae in the New World. In this monograph 114 species are recognized, but a high proportion of new species (33, many collected only recently), suggests that the real number is still higher. The genus is restricted to tropical and subtropical America, including the Antilles. The main center of diversity is found on the eastern slopes of the Andes and in adjacent Amazonian Peru. Most species are trees of wet or moist forests, in both lowland and montane habitats up to ca. 3000 m elevation. Some are locally important timber trees. The introductory section of this study summarizes the general information (often scantly) available for Nectandra, provides illustrations of the main diagnostic characters, and discusses the controversial delimitation and subdivision of the genus. /// El gnero Nectandra es por su nmero de especies el segundo en importancia entre las Laurceas neotropicales. En esta monografa se reconocen 114 especies. Sin embargo, debido a la alta proporcin de especies nuevas (33) es probable que el nmero real sea mas alto, pues muchas de ellas fueron recolectadas solo recientemente. El gnero se distribuye en la Amrica tropical y subtropical, incluyendo las Antillas. Su centro de diversificacin se encuentra en las faldas orientales de los Andes y en la regin adyacente de la Amazonia peruana. La mayora de las especies son rboles de bosques hmedos hasta muy hmedos, tanto en los terrenos bajos como en las montaas hasta aprox. 3000 m de altura. Algunas tienen importancia local como rboles maderables. En la introduccin de este trabajo se resume la informacin general (frecuentemente escasa) disponible sobre Nectandra. Adems, se presentan ilustraciones de los caracteres diagnsticos ms importantes y se discute la delimitacin y subdivisin del gnero. 
4393831| Rollinia, with 44 species currently recognized, takes fourth place among the Neotropical genera of Annonaceae. It stands close to the well-known genus Annona. Rolliniopsis is brought into synonymy with Rollinia. Rollinia annonoides R. E. Fries and R. poeppigii Martius are transferred to Annona, and two new combinations are made accordingly. No new species are proposed in the present monograph, this having been done in an earlier paper. Both synoptical and dichotomous keys are provided for the species. For each species a description, geographical and ecological notes, a distribution map, herbarium specimens, and, whenever applicable, synonymy, chromosome number, taxonomic notes, etc., are given. Overviews are given of the history, gross morphology, geography and ecology, systematics, economic uses, and conservation status of the genus. Vernacular names are also listed. New data are presented in the fields of leaf and wood anatomy, karyology, palynology, seed anatomy, and chemistry. There are field observations on flower biology and some on seed dispersal, all of recent date. One chapter deals with insects, particularly Lepidopters, feeding on Rollinia and the related Annona. /// Rollinia, com 44 espcies atualmente reconhecidas, ocupa o quarto lugar entre os gneros Neotropicais de Annonaceae. Este gnero  prximo do bem conhecido gnero Annona. Rolliniopsis  colocado como sinnimo de Rollinia. Rollinia annonoides R. E. Fries e R. poeppigii Martius so transferidos para o gnero Annona, e consequentemente duas novas combinaaaes so feitas. Na presente monografia nenhuma nova espcie  proposta, isso foi feito em artigos anteriores. Uma chave sinptica e uma dicotmica so fornecidas para as espcies. Para cada espcie so apresentados descriaaes, mapa de distribuo, dados sobre distribuo geogrfica e ecolgica, espcimes herborizadas, e sempre que possvel, notas taxonmicas, nmero de cromossomos, sinnimos, etc., so fornecidos. Alm disso so apresentados dados sobre histria, morfologia, geografia e ecologia, posio sistemtica, importncia econmica e conservao do gnero. Nomes vulgares tambm so listados. Novos dados so apresentados sobre anatomia de madeira e foliar, cariologia, palinologia, anatomia de sementes, e qumica. Tem algumas observaaaes de campo sobre biologia floral e disperso de sementes, todos dados recentes. Um captulo trata de insetos, particularmente Lepidpteros, que alimentam-se de Rollinia e Annona. 
4393935| This monograph presents a taxonomic revision of the neotropical species of the tribe Alchorneae (Hurus.) Hutch., which consist of the genera Alchornea Sw., Aparisthmium Endl. and Conceveiba Aubl. In Alchornea 23 species have been recognized for the neotropics. Alchornea websterii R. Secco is described as a new species and a status novum, A. glandulosa subsp. iricurana (Casar.) R. Secco is proposed. Aparisthmium is a monotypic genus with the only species A. cordatum, which presents a wide geographic distribution in South America. Conceveiba has 13 species in the neotropics. The genera Conceveibastrum and Gavarretia have been considered as synonym of Conceveiba. A discussion on the identity and systematic position of Polyandra Leal is presented. Alchornea leptogyna Diels, A. pavonioeides Posada-Ar., A. valleana Croizat and Conceveiba prealta (Leal) Punt ex J. Murillo have been considered as doubtful species. Data on the morphology of the species, including habit, indument, leaves, inflorescences, flowers, pollen, anatomy, fruits and seeds, as well as a brief chapter about the dispersal, pollination, sexual systems, seedlings, chromosomes, chemistry, ethnobotany and conservation is presented. The center of diversification of Alchornea is in Colombia, where 16 species occur. Alchornea has seven species with wide patterns of distribution, 12 species with restricted patterns of distribution and four species with very restricted distribution. Conceveiba presents three species with wide geographic distribution patterns, seven species with restricted geographic distribution patterns and three species with very restricted geographic distribution patterns. Some hypothetical evolutionary trends were found for the studied genera: in the case of Alchornea, the leaf pattern of venation, which splits up the genera in two species groups: I. With pinnate venation, including the patterns brochydrodomous or slightly eucamptodromous, and II. With venation actinodromous. In the case of Conceveiba, simple/stellate hair, 20-60 stamens free or slightly connate at the bases and without staminodes, 8-15 stamens, connate at the bases, located external to the staminodes, and inflorescences with 1-3 flowers/inflorescences with flowers in glomerules. In the case of Aparisthmium, stamens 8-10/stamens 3-5. /// Esta monografia trata da reviso taxonmica das espcies neotropicais da tribo Alchorneae (Hurusawa) Hutchinson, que compe-se dos gneros Alchornea Sw., Aparisthmium Endl. e Conceveiba Aubl. Em Alchornea foram reconhecidas 23 espcies. Alchornea websterii R. Secco  uma nova espcie aqui proposta para o Equador.  proposto um status novum, A. glandulosa subsp. iricurana (Casar.) R. Secco. Aparisthmium constitui-se de apenas uma espcie, A. cordatum, e apresenta ampla distribuio na Amrica do Sul. Conceveiba apresenta 13 espcies. Os gneros Conceveibastrum e Gavarretia foram considerados sinnimos de Conceveiba. Uma discusso sobre a identidade e posio sistemtica de Polyandra Leal  apresentada. Alchornea leptogyna Diels, A. pavonioeides Posada-Ar., A. valleana Croizat e Conceveiba prealta (Leal) Punt ex J. Murillo foram consideradas espcies duvidosas. Dados sobre a morfologia das espcies, incluindo hbito, indumento, folhas, inflorescncias, flores, plen, anatomia, frutos e sementes, bem como um resumo sobre disperso, polinizao, sistemas sexuais, plntulas, cromossomos, qumica, etnobotnica e conservao das mesmas so apresentados. Alchornea apresenta trs padres de distribuio geogrfica: espcies amplamente distribudas (sete), espcies de distribuio restrita (12) e espcies de distribuio muito restrita (quatro endemismos). O centro de diversidade gentica de Alchornea est na Colmbia, onde ocorrem 16 espcies. Conceveiba apresenta trs espcies com padres de distribuio amplos, seis espcies com distribuio restrita e duas espcies com distribuio muito restrita. Algumas tendncias evolutivas, de carter hipottico, foram assinaladas para os gneros estudados, destacandose: no caso de Alchornea, o padro de venao foliar, que divide o gnero em 2 grupos de espcies (I. com venao pinada, incluindo os padres broquiddromo ou levemente eucamptdromo e II. com venao actindroma). No caso de Conceveiba, tricomas simples/estrelados, 20-60 estames livres ou levemente concrescidos nas bases e sem estamindios/8-15 estames, concrescidos nas bases, dispostos externamente aos estamindios, e inflorescncias com flores isoladas, aos pares ou em trades/inflorescncias com flores dispostas em glomrulos. No caso de Aparisthmium, estames 8-10/estames 3-5. 
25800083|Disterigma (Ericaceae) is a neotropical blueberry genus that grows in Central and South America. A few species of Disterigma are widespread; many are narrow endemics or are at least altitudinally confined to the cold and humid environments of the cloud forests and pramos. The shrubs of Disterigma are typically small and have diverse growth forms that include erect, scandent, prostrate, or cushion-like shrubs. As the number of described species within Disterigma increased over time, the morphological characters that distinguished it from other inferior-ovaried Ericaceae became less clear to the point to raise doubts about its monophyletic status. Recent comprehensive phylogenetic analyses incorporating both morphological and molecular data allowed the identification of a Disterigma clade, where the type species of the genus is found. The Disterigma clade is the subject of this monograph and 32 species are here recognized within it. Disterigma can be distinguished from other Vaccinieae by the presence of a pair of bracteoles inserted right at the apex of the pedicel, which are differentiated in size from other bracts and bracteoles accompanying the flower; another putative synapomorphy of Disterigma is the presence of white embryos. The majority of the species of Disterigma are found in the northern Andes with 26 species growing in the mountains of Colombia and Ecuador; seven of these species are exclusive to this region. Colombia has the greatest number of species followed by Ecuador and Peru. This monograph includes changes in the circumscription and nomenclature of three of the most widespread species of the genus (D. acuminatum, D. alaternoides, and D. humboldtii), the resurrection of D. dendrophilum, the placement of seven names in synonymy, the proposal of a new name (D. parallelinerve), and the designation of two neotypes (D. ulei and Metagonia prostrata) and a lectotype (D. weberbaueri). A type species is here designated for the genus Metagonia and the genus Killipiella is synonymized with Disterigma. Additionally, during the preparation of this monograph eight new species were discovered of which D. baguense, D. campanulatum, D. chocoanum, D. ollacheum, and D. synanthum are here described and illustrated. Five species are excluded from Disterigma (D. bracteatum, D. pentandrum, D. rimbachii, D. trimerum, and D. ulei), but their placement within Vaccinieae needs further work. Disterigma (Ericaceae) es un gnero neotropical de uvitos de pramo (agraz, mortio) presente en Centro y Sur Amrica. Aunque algunas especies de Disterigma tienen distribucin geogrfica amplia, la mayora son endmicas o estn restringidas altitudinalmente a los ambientes fros y hmedos que caracterizan los bosques de niebla y los pramos. Las Disterigma son arbustos pequeos y stos pueden ser erectos, escandentes, postrados o formar cojines densos. La monoflia del gnero Disterigma y los caracteres morfolgicos que permitan separarlo de entre las dems Ericaceae con ovario nfero se fueron haciendo menos claros en la medida que el nmero de especies conocidas se increment. Anlisis filogenticos recientes y detallados, basados en datos morfolgicos y moleculares, han permitido la identificacin del clado Disterigma, en donde se encuentra la especie tipo del gnero. El clado Disterigma es el sujeto de esta monografa y 32 especies son aqu reconocidas. Disterigma se distingue de otras Vaccinieae por la presencia de un par de bracteolas ubicadas justo en el pice del pedicelo y cuyo tamao las diferencia claramente de otras brcteas y bractolas que acompaan la flor; otra probable sinapomorfa del gnero es la presencia de embriones blancos. La mayora de las especies de Disterigma se encuentran en el norte de los Andes, con 26 especies en las montaas de Colombia y Ecuador; siete de estas especies son exclusivas de la regin. Colombia tiene el mayor nmero de especies, seguido de Ecuador y Per. Este tratamiento incluye cambios en la circunscripcin y nomenclatura de tres de las especies de ms amplia distribucin (D. acuminatum, D. alaternoides, y D. humboldtii), la restauracin de D. dendrophilum, la sinonimizacin de siete nombres, la presentacin de un nuevo nombre (D. parallelinerve), y la designacin de dos netipos (D. ulei y Metagonia prostrata) y un lecttipo (D. weberbaueri). Tambin se designa la especie tipo del gnero Metagonia y el gnero Killipiella se sinonimiza con Disterigma. Adicionalmente, durante la realizacin de esta monografa ocho especies nuevas han sido descubiertas, y D. baguense, D. campanulatum, D. chocoanum, D. ollacheum, y D. synanthum son ac descritas e ilustradas. Cinco especies son segregadas de Disterigma (D. bracteatum, D. pentandrum, D. rimbachii, D. trimerum, y D. ulei), pero an no se conocen bien sus afinidades filogenticas dentro de Vaccinieae.
4393851|The Alismataceae are aquatic or semi-aquatic herbs with erect or floating leaves and grow as amphiphytes or hydrophytes. The family consists of 11 genera and about 75 species native to tropical, subtropical, and subtemperate regions in both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres. Two genera of the family, Echinodorus and Sagittaria, are known from the Neotropics. Echinodorus, a genus of 26 species, is restricted to the Western Hemisphere, with all species known from the Neotropics. Sagittaria, a genus of approximately 25 species, is subcosmopolitan, with 14 species known from the Neotropics. Keys to taxa, descriptions of all taxa, illustrations, and documented distribution maps for all species and subspecies are included.
4393816|A monograph of Neotropical Sapotaceae with a systematic treatment of 396 species, including chapters on taxonomic history, morphology, variation and distribution and pollen. Full descriptions are given for all species, as well as generic and species keys. Seventy-one new species and five new subspecies are described in this work.
4393839| Nectandra is the second largest genus of Lauraceae in the New World. In this monograph 114 species are recognized, but a high proportion of new species (33, many collected only recently), suggests that the real number is still higher. The genus is restricted to tropical and subtropical America, including the Antilles. The main center of diversity is found on the eastern slopes of the Andes and in adjacent Amazonian Peru. Most species are trees of wet or moist forests, in both lowland and montane habitats up to ca. 3000 m elevation. Some are locally important timber trees. The introductory section of this study summarizes the general information (often scantly) available for Nectandra, provides illustrations of the main diagnostic characters, and discusses the controversial delimitation and subdivision of the genus. /// El gnero Nectandra es por su nmero de especies el segundo en importancia entre las Laurceas neotropicales. En esta monografa se reconocen 114 especies. Sin embargo, debido a la alta proporcin de especies nuevas (33) es probable que el nmero real sea mas alto, pues muchas de ellas fueron recolectadas solo recientemente. El gnero se distribuye en la Amrica tropical y subtropical, incluyendo las Antillas. Su centro de diversificacin se encuentra en las faldas orientales de los Andes y en la regin adyacente de la Amazonia peruana. La mayora de las especies son rboles de bosques hmedos hasta muy hmedos, tanto en los terrenos bajos como en las montaas hasta aprox. 3000 m de altura. Algunas tienen importancia local como rboles maderables. En la introduccin de este trabajo se resume la informacin general (frecuentemente escasa) disponible sobre Nectandra. Adems, se presentan ilustraciones de los caracteres diagnsticos ms importantes y se discute la delimitacin y subdivisin del gnero. 
4393831| Rollinia, with 44 species currently recognized, takes fourth place among the Neotropical genera of Annonaceae. It stands close to the well-known genus Annona. Rolliniopsis is brought into synonymy with Rollinia. Rollinia annonoides R. E. Fries and R. poeppigii Martius are transferred to Annona, and two new combinations are made accordingly. No new species are proposed in the present monograph, this having been done in an earlier paper. Both synoptical and dichotomous keys are provided for the species. For each species a description, geographical and ecological notes, a distribution map, herbarium specimens, and, whenever applicable, synonymy, chromosome number, taxonomic notes, etc., are given. Overviews are given of the history, gross morphology, geography and ecology, systematics, economic uses, and conservation status of the genus. Vernacular names are also listed. New data are presented in the fields of leaf and wood anatomy, karyology, palynology, seed anatomy, and chemistry. There are field observations on flower biology and some on seed dispersal, all of recent date. One chapter deals with insects, particularly Lepidopters, feeding on Rollinia and the related Annona. /// Rollinia, com 44 espcies atualmente reconhecidas, ocupa o quarto lugar entre os gneros Neotropicais de Annonaceae. Este gnero  prximo do bem conhecido gnero Annona. Rolliniopsis  colocado como sinnimo de Rollinia. Rollinia annonoides R. E. Fries e R. poeppigii Martius so transferidos para o gnero Annona, e consequentemente duas novas combinaaaes so feitas. Na presente monografia nenhuma nova espcie  proposta, isso foi feito em artigos anteriores. Uma chave sinptica e uma dicotmica so fornecidas para as espcies. Para cada espcie so apresentados descriaaes, mapa de distribuo, dados sobre distribuo geogrfica e ecolgica, espcimes herborizadas, e sempre que possvel, notas taxonmicas, nmero de cromossomos, sinnimos, etc., so fornecidos. Alm disso so apresentados dados sobre histria, morfologia, geografia e ecologia, posio sistemtica, importncia econmica e conservao do gnero. Nomes vulgares tambm so listados. Novos dados so apresentados sobre anatomia de madeira e foliar, cariologia, palinologia, anatomia de sementes, e qumica. Tem algumas observaaaes de campo sobre biologia floral e disperso de sementes, todos dados recentes. Um captulo trata de insetos, particularmente Lepidpteros, que alimentam-se de Rollinia e Annona. 
4393935| This monograph presents a taxonomic revision of the neotropical species of the tribe Alchorneae (Hurus.) Hutch., which consist of the genera Alchornea Sw., Aparisthmium Endl. and Conceveiba Aubl. In Alchornea 23 species have been recognized for the neotropics. Alchornea websterii R. Secco is described as a new species and a status novum, A. glandulosa subsp. iricurana (Casar.) R. Secco is proposed. Aparisthmium is a monotypic genus with the only species A. cordatum, which presents a wide geographic distribution in South America. Conceveiba has 13 species in the neotropics. The genera Conceveibastrum and Gavarretia have been considered as synonym of Conceveiba. A discussion on the identity and systematic position of Polyandra Leal is presented. Alchornea leptogyna Diels, A. pavonioeides Posada-Ar., A. valleana Croizat and Conceveiba prealta (Leal) Punt ex J. Murillo have been considered as doubtful species. Data on the morphology of the species, including habit, indument, leaves, inflorescences, flowers, pollen, anatomy, fruits and seeds, as well as a brief chapter about the dispersal, pollination, sexual systems, seedlings, chromosomes, chemistry, ethnobotany and conservation is presented. The center of diversification of Alchornea is in Colombia, where 16 species occur. Alchornea has seven species with wide patterns of distribution, 12 species with restricted patterns of distribution and four species with very restricted distribution. Conceveiba presents three species with wide geographic distribution patterns, seven species with restricted geographic distribution patterns and three species with very restricted geographic distribution patterns. Some hypothetical evolutionary trends were found for the studied genera: in the case of Alchornea, the leaf pattern of venation, which splits up the genera in two species groups: I. With pinnate venation, including the patterns brochydrodomous or slightly eucamptodromous, and II. With venation actinodromous. In the case of Conceveiba, simple/stellate hair, 20-60 stamens free or slightly connate at the bases and without staminodes, 8-15 stamens, connate at the bases, located external to the staminodes, and inflorescences with 1-3 flowers/inflorescences with flowers in glomerules. In the case of Aparisthmium, stamens 8-10/stamens 3-5. /// Esta monografia trata da reviso taxonmica das espcies neotropicais da tribo Alchorneae (Hurusawa) Hutchinson, que compe-se dos gneros Alchornea Sw., Aparisthmium Endl. e Conceveiba Aubl. Em Alchornea foram reconhecidas 23 espcies. Alchornea websterii R. Secco  uma nova espcie aqui proposta para o Equador.  proposto um status novum, A. glandulosa subsp. iricurana (Casar.) R. Secco. Aparisthmium constitui-se de apenas uma espcie, A. cordatum, e apresenta ampla distribuio na Amrica do Sul. Conceveiba apresenta 13 espcies. Os gneros Conceveibastrum e Gavarretia foram considerados sinnimos de Conceveiba. Uma discusso sobre a identidade e posio sistemtica de Polyandra Leal  apresentada. Alchornea leptogyna Diels, A. pavonioeides Posada-Ar., A. valleana Croizat e Conceveiba prealta (Leal) Punt ex J. Murillo foram consideradas espcies duvidosas. Dados sobre a morfologia das espcies, incluindo hbito, indumento, folhas, inflorescncias, flores, plen, anatomia, frutos e sementes, bem como um resumo sobre disperso, polinizao, sistemas sexuais, plntulas, cromossomos, qumica, etnobotnica e conservao das mesmas so apresentados. Alchornea apresenta trs padres de distribuio geogrfica: espcies amplamente distribudas (sete), espcies de distribuio restrita (12) e espcies de distribuio muito restrita (quatro endemismos). O centro de diversidade gentica de Alchornea est na Colmbia, onde ocorrem 16 espcies. Conceveiba apresenta trs espcies com padres de distribuio amplos, seis espcies com distribuio restrita e duas espcies com distribuio muito restrita. Algumas tendncias evolutivas, de carter hipottico, foram assinaladas para os gneros estudados, destacandose: no caso de Alchornea, o padro de venao foliar, que divide o gnero em 2 grupos de espcies (I. com venao pinada, incluindo os padres broquiddromo ou levemente eucamptdromo e II. com venao actindroma). No caso de Conceveiba, tricomas simples/estrelados, 20-60 estames livres ou levemente concrescidos nas bases e sem estamindios/8-15 estames, concrescidos nas bases, dispostos externamente aos estamindios, e inflorescncias com flores isoladas, aos pares ou em trades/inflorescncias com flores dispostas em glomrulos. No caso de Aparisthmium, estames 8-10/estames 3-5. 
25800083|Disterigma (Ericaceae) is a neotropical blueberry genus that grows in Central and South America. A few species of Disterigma are widespread; many are narrow endemics or are at least altitudinally confined to the cold and humid environments of the cloud forests and pramos. The shrubs of Disterigma are typically small and have diverse growth forms that include erect, scandent, prostrate, or cushion-like shrubs. As the number of described species within Disterigma increased over time, the morphological characters that distinguished it from other inferior-ovaried Ericaceae became less clear to the point to raise doubts about its monophyletic status. Recent comprehensive phylogenetic analyses incorporating both morphological and molecular data allowed the identification of a Disterigma clade, where the type species of the genus is found. The Disterigma clade is the subject of this monograph and 32 species are here recognized within it. Disterigma can be distinguished from other Vaccinieae by the presence of a pair of bracteoles inserted right at the apex of the pedicel, which are differentiated in size from other bracts and bracteoles accompanying the flower; another putative synapomorphy of Disterigma is the presence of white embryos. The majority of the species of Disterigma are found in the northern Andes with 26 species growing in the mountains of Colombia and Ecuador; seven of these species are exclusive to this region. Colombia has the greatest number of species followed by Ecuador and Peru. This monograph includes changes in the circumscription and nomenclature of three of the most widespread species of the genus (D. acuminatum, D. alaternoides, and D. humboldtii), the resurrection of D. dendrophilum, the placement of seven names in synonymy, the proposal of a new name (D. parallelinerve), and the designation of two neotypes (D. ulei and Metagonia prostrata) and a lectotype (D. weberbaueri). A type species is here designated for the genus Metagonia and the genus Killipiella is synonymized with Disterigma. Additionally, during the preparation of this monograph eight new species were discovered of which D. baguense, D. campanulatum, D. chocoanum, D. ollacheum, and D. synanthum are here described and illustrated. Five species are excluded from Disterigma (D. bracteatum, D. pentandrum, D. rimbachii, D. trimerum, and D. ulei), but their placement within Vaccinieae needs further work. Disterigma (Ericaceae) es un gnero neotropical de uvitos de pramo (agraz, mortio) presente en Centro y Sur Amrica. Aunque algunas especies de Disterigma tienen distribucin geogrfica amplia, la mayora son endmicas o estn restringidas altitudinalmente a los ambientes fros y hmedos que caracterizan los bosques de niebla y los pramos. Las Disterigma son arbustos pequeos y stos pueden ser erectos, escandentes, postrados o formar cojines densos. La monoflia del gnero Disterigma y los caracteres morfolgicos que permitan separarlo de entre las dems Ericaceae con ovario nfero se fueron haciendo menos claros en la medida que el nmero de especies conocidas se increment. Anlisis filogenticos recientes y detallados, basados en datos morfolgicos y moleculares, han permitido la identificacin del clado Disterigma, en donde se encuentra la especie tipo del gnero. El clado Disterigma es el sujeto de esta monografa y 32 especies son aqu reconocidas. Disterigma se distingue de otras Vaccinieae por la presencia de un par de bracteolas ubicadas justo en el pice del pedicelo y cuyo tamao las diferencia claramente de otras brcteas y bractolas que acompaan la flor; otra probable sinapomorfa del gnero es la presencia de embriones blancos. La mayora de las especies de Disterigma se encuentran en el norte de los Andes, con 26 especies en las montaas de Colombia y Ecuador; siete de estas especies son exclusivas de la regin. Colombia tiene el mayor nmero de especies, seguido de Ecuador y Per. Este tratamiento incluye cambios en la circunscripcin y nomenclatura de tres de las especies de ms amplia distribucin (D. acuminatum, D. alaternoides, y D. humboldtii), la restauracin de D. dendrophilum, la sinonimizacin de siete nombres, la presentacin de un nuevo nombre (D. parallelinerve), y la designacin de dos netipos (D. ulei y Metagonia prostrata) y un lecttipo (D. weberbaueri). Tambin se designa la especie tipo del gnero Metagonia y el gnero Killipiella se sinonimiza con Disterigma. Adicionalmente, durante la realizacin de esta monografa ocho especies nuevas han sido descubiertas, y D. baguense, D. campanulatum, D. chocoanum, D. ollacheum, y D. synanthum son ac descritas e ilustradas. Cinco especies son segregadas de Disterigma (D. bracteatum, D. pentandrum, D. rimbachii, D. trimerum, y D. ulei), pero an no se conocen bien sus afinidades filogenticas dentro de Vaccinieae.
