4181485|The vegetation of road verges in the coastal dune area of the Netherlands was surveyed phytosociologically. Nine plant communities have been distinguished. They belong to the Ammophiletea, Koelerio-Corynephoretea, Molinio-Arrhenatheretea, Plantaginetea majoris and Artemisietea vulgaris. Most plant communities appear to be fragmentarily developed and have thus been described by the so-called deductive method. Vegetation in road verges often appears to be heterogeneous. Species composition is influenced by man, distance from the sea, fertility and moisture content of the soil. It is clearly correlated with total nitrogen, magnesium and organic matter. Therophytes are preponderant; these and sclerophytes indicate the dry environment. The majority of the species are apophytes.
4180638|The percentage of diploids and polyploids in plant communities of WSW Iceland is discussed in connection with environmental conditions, life forms and species diversity. No correlation was found between the age of species and their ploidy. Three basic landscape units are defined.
4180758|The meadow vegetation of the Desna river flood plain described by the authors is of great scientific significance as far as the protection of diversified syntaxa of inundation meadows is concerned. These syntaxa are different in their floristic composition. The largest inundation meadows of the Ukraine are best preserved in the flood plain of the Desna river where the authors have identified and described 18 associations of meadow vegetation attributed to 6 alliances, 2 orders and 2 classes of vegetation. They represent an ecological series ranging from steppe meadow to boggy meadows. The units thus specified are characterized by phytocenologic tables; the specificity and biological productivity of each association concerned being registered. The peculiar character of inundation meadows requires further more profound ecological and phytocenological studies of meadow communities which the authors propose for the future.
4180586| Several taxa considered by previous authors as intraspecific of Potentilla taurica s.l. are considered as separate species. A diploid chromosome number 2n = 14 and the characteristic chromosomes of karyotypes of 3 Balkan endemics P. niii Adam., P. emilipopii Nyardy and P. pirotensis (Borb.) Mark. are recorded. P. bornmuelleri Borb., P. mollicrinis (Borb.) Stankov and P. astracanica Jacq. are widespread in South-eastern Europe. Of this group P. mollicrinis is a diploid (2n = 14), P. bornmuelleri is tetraploid and in P. astracanica a polyploid serie of 2x = 14, 4x = 28, 5  = 35 and 6x = 42 has been found. The karyotypes of all species are characterized by submetacentric chromosomes. 
4180884|The book K. Richter, Plantae europeae, Vol. 1, 1890, is analyzed from the viewpoint of nomenclature of subspecies names. 264 subspecies names interesting from the standpoint of contemporary taxonomy and nomenclature are selected from the total number of 840 subspecies names for a commented list. Seventeen important cases are dealt with separately in greater detail. Eleven new nomenclatural combinations (two for species, nine for subspecies) are proposed in the Appendix. Types for two generic names (Acorellus Palla and Juncellus C. B. Clarke) are proposed. A new term "parabasionym" is applied for names establishing the priority of infraspecific epithets in the rank in question. The need to respect the newly accepted principle of priority of autonymic subspecies names at proposing new nomenclatural combinations is stressed. Examples of Richter's subspecies names having priority, subspecies names with necessary changes in their authorship and names having a possible importance as parabasionyms are enumerated in seperate lists.
4179751|A generic description is given of the genus Menispora Pers. and four Czechoslovak species assigned to this genus are described and illustrated: Menispora caesia Preuss, M. ciliata Corda, M. glauca Pers. and M. tortuosa Corda. The perfect state of M. glauca Pers. was collected for the first time and is described as a new species Chaetosphaeria glauca Hol.-Jech. Chaetosphaeria pulviscula (Curr.) Booth, the perfect state of M. caesia Preuss was also collected only once and is here described again. A key is provided for the Czechoslovak species of Menispora Pers.
4181415|Plant hormones play a key role as mediators between environmental signals and adaptive plant responses. Auxin, ethylene and gibberellins are involved in the initiation of adaptive plant responses such as the development of adventitious roots and stimulated shoot elongation upon flooded conditions. These adaptive plastic responses in plants are frequently linked to changes in the concentrations of the hormones involved, but only rarely to shifts in sensitivity. Examples from ecophysiological research performed with species from the genus Rumex demonstrate the importance of the hormone sensitivity concept in plant adaptations to flooding: (a) Rumex species can be grouped into three response categories according to the ethylene sensitivity of the youngest petioles: positive, negative and indifferent; (b) Sub-ambient oxygen concentrations sensitize petioles of wetland Rumex species to ethylene; (c) Enhanced ethylene levels sensitize petioles of wetland Rumex species to gibberellin; (d) Auxin is the primary plant hormone responsible for the initiation of adventitious roots in wetland Rumex species. However, a factor related to waterlogging, possibly ethylene, is required to sensitize the root-shoot junction to endogenous auxin.
4179492| Fnf neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen fr die Arten der Gattung Comastoma sowie vier fr die Arten der Gattung Gentianella werden vorgeschlagen. 
4181261|The current approaches to the study of clonal plants are reviewed. Most studies concentrate at the level of the ramet and clonal fragment exploring the "microscopic" view of clonal plants, dealing with the translocation of resources, clonal integration, plasticity of growth etc. The information gained by this approach can be used in the understanding of higher levels of organization within the clonal system either with the help of spatially explicit modelling techniques, or by using means and distributions of size within a population instead of studying individual ramets separately. Plant scientists use the term clone with two meanings, viz. (a) a set of physiologically connected, but potentially independent ramets, and (b) a set of genetically identical, but potentially physically separated individuals. The overlap of these terms differs between individual plant species, depending on the extent of physical separation of the ramets and the degree of physiological integration between the ramets; the lower the frequency of ramet separation, the closer are the physiological and genetic concepts of the clone. Three critical areas seem to be neglected in clonal plant research: (a) the interrelationship between hierarchical levels in clonal plants, (b) the particular spatial structure of their environment, and (c) the importance of clonal plants in different ecological communities.
4179504| The productivity of three plant communities differing in moisture conditions was studied in the river basin of the Dyje near the village of Lanhot (Southern Moravia). The communities were as follows: Serratuleto-Festucetum commutatae Baltov-Tulkov 1963, Gratiola officinalis-Carex praecox-suzae subass. Galium boreale Baltov-Tulkov 1963, and Gratiola officinalis-Carex praecox-suzae subass. Rorippa silvestris Baltov-Tulkov 1963. The association Gratiola officinalis-Carex praecox-suzae subass. Galium boreale appeared as the most productive one, its biomass maximum
4179480|In 15 basic articles the author summarises draft nomenclatural principles in floristic phytosociology (the Braun-Blanquet school). The draft is to be considered as an attempt to introduce into plant sociology such rules as respect the object and method of establishing sociological units, based on typisation. The conception of a unit, given by the diagnosis, is considered to be the most important criterion for the choice of a correct name.
4179460| Die nordamerikanische Art Echinocystis lobata hat sich an den Ufern einiger europischer Flsse, insbesondere im pannonischen Gebiet, eingebrgert. Die Verbreitung in der Tschechoslowakei wird eingehend behandelt, insbesondere wo diese Art in einigen Flusssystemen Sdmhrens und der Sd- und Sdostslowakei eingebrgert ist. Ihre geographische und kologische Charakteristik in Nordamerika sowie in Europa wird klargelegt. Weiter wurde ihre phytoznologische Zugehrigkeit untersucht und die Aufmerksamkeit der Art und Weise der Verbreitung, vor allem der Hydrochorie, zugewandt. Echinocystis lobata ist eine wichtige Reservoirpflanze einer gefhrlichen Viruskrankheit Cucumis virus 1 (Doolittle) Smith. /// 1. At the beginning of this century the North American species Echinocystis lobata, began to escape from cultures in Europe. It soon established in natural communities of river banks as an expansive hemerophytic neophyte. It expanded its area, which is markedly bound to the streams. Its main area lies in the Pannonian district. 2. Echinocystis lobata is, according to Stocking, a monotypic genus, closely allied to Echinopepon Naud. and Marah Kellog. Its intraspecific variability shows normal amplitude of variation. 3. The original spontaneous area of distribution in N. America and its ecology is thoroughly discussed. 4. The first record of escape from culture is from Rumania in 1904. Later on it was found in several countries (cf. Fig. 2). 5. Echinocystis lobata occupies two different habitats in Europe: a) river banks and brook sides-this habitat corresponds to its natural environment, b) ruderal places. While in the first habitat it is now practically naturalised in our country, in the second it does not grow for longer periods. 6. Its secondary area in Europe is analogous to its original area in N. America. It corresponds to regions with precipitation of 550 mm and over and an average temperature of 17-25 C in June and below 0 C in January. 7. Its present distribution in Czechoslovakia may be seen from the map; it corresponds roughly to the Pannonian district. The list of localities is attached. 8. It belongs to the nitrophilous "vail communities" of the alliance Senecion fluviatilis R. Tx. (1947) 1950, especially to the ass. Cuscuto-Calystegietum sepii R. Tx. 1947 em. So 1961 subass. echinocystidetosum (So 1960) Krpti 1962. 9. The carpobiological problems of this species are thoroughly discussed. Its distribution in Europe had 3 stages. In the first it was cultivated and the seeds were obtained by means of blastochory or hydrochory on the riversides in the second one. The third stage is characterised by its distribution along streams by means of blastochory, bythisohydrochory and nautohydrochory; its further distribution was due to high water in spring or autumn. Its distribution upstream is due partly to blastochory, partly to man's intentional or unintentional activity. Its ability to spread by hydrochory has been experimentally investigated (cf. Tab. 2). 10. Seeds undergo a primary dormancy (embryodormancy); they need at least 2 weeks of low temperature in wet environment. Germination is raised by scarification of the testa of stratified seeds; in the laboratory seeds germinated only in variable and not in constant temperature. 
4180006|Karyotypes of twelve species from twenty-four localities in southern Moravia and one locality in Slovakia were investigated. Their counts or karyotypic formulae are as follows: Chenopodium foliosum (Moench) Ascherson: K (2n) = 18 =
4179800| Der Artname Matricaria chamomilla L. 1753 kann nicht auf die Echte Kamille angewendet werden, da er mit der Geruchlosen Kamille zu typisieren ist. Da M. chamomilla die Typusart der Gattung Matricaria L. ist, verbleibt dieser Gattungsname bei der Aufteilung der Gattung bei der Teilgattung mit der Geruchlosen Kamille; der Name Tripleurospermum Schultz-bip. ist illegitim. Der korrekte Name fr die Gattung mit der Echten Kamille lautet Chamomilla S. F. Gray. Die Echte Kamille heisst Chamomilla recutita (L.) Rauschert comb. nov., die Strahlenlose Kamille Chamomilla suaveolens (Pursh) Rydb. Die Inlandsippe der Geruchlosen Kamille muss, falls man sie im Artrang von der Strandsippe M. maritima L. abtrennt, M. perforata Mrat heissen, da der bekannte Name M. inodora L. 1755 als berflssige Umbenennung von M. chamomilla L. 1753 illegitim ist. Die korrekten Namen der Chamomilla-Arten und ihre Synonymie werden in einer Liste aufgefhrt. Diese Liste enthlt auch fr die Gattung Matricaria s. str. 20 Neukombinationen und 3 nomina nova. /// The nomenclatural type of the name Matricaria chamomilla L. 1753 is the Scentless Mayweed, not the Wild Camomile. The traditional application of this name in the latter meaning, which is found for the first time in Linnaeus' Flora suecica ed. 2 (1755), is not correct, because Linnaeus 1755 excluded the original type of the name M. chamomilla L. 1753, and therefore he is considered to have published a nomen novum for a new taxon, which must be cited correctly as "M. chamomilla L. 1755 non. L. 1753" and not as "M. chamomilla L. 1753 emend. L. 1755". This nomen novum, however, is a later homonym and cannot be used for the Wild Camomile. The older homonym M. chamomilla L. 1753 must be rejected for the Scentless Mayweed as a nomen ambiguum. If Matricaria L. is divided into two genera, the generic name Matricaria must be retained for the partial genus including the Scentless Mayweed, because the type-species of the genus Matricaria L., M. chamomilla L. 1753, is the Scentless Mayweed. The name Tripleurospermum Schultz-Bip., nowadays in general use for this genus, is illegitimate, because the name of its type-species is based on the same type "Fl. suec. 702" as the name of the type-species of Matricaria. The other partial genus, including the Wild Camomile, must be named Chamomilla S. F. Gray. The legitimacy of this generic name is discussed. The present author refers to the possibility of designating the species M. recutita (the Wild Camomile) a typus conservandus for the genus Matricaria; for in this event the names Matricaria s. str. and Tripleurospermum could be retained in the traditional meaning. After a detailed statement of the cases both for and against the conservation, however, the designation of a typus conservandus is not recommended. Therefore the correct names are Chamomilla recutita (L.) Rauschert comb. nov. for the Wild Camomile, and Chamomilla suaveolens (Pursh) Rydb. for the Pineapple Weed (Rayless Mayweed). If the genus Chamomilla is united with Matricaria, the latter species must be named Matricaria discoidea DC. and not M. matricarioides (Lessing) Porter. The ruderal and segetal inland taxon of the Scentless Mayweed, if considered distinct in rank of species from the littoral taxon M. maritima L. 1753, must be named Matricaria perforata Mrat, since the known name M. inodora L. is illegitimate, being a nomen novum (avowed substitute) for M. chamomilla L. 1753. Correct names for the species of the genus Chamomilla with synonymy, and 20 new combinations and 3 nomina nova in the genus Matricaria s. str. are listed. 
4180281| Plant species diversity and dominance patterns were studied in a tropical grassland comunity at Berhampur, India during 1977-1978. Diversity (- pi lnpi) and dominance
4179432| In vorliegender Arbeit sind die kologischen Hauptunterschiede zwischen den Rhrichtgesellschaften fliessender und stehender Gewsser definiert. Demzufolge beweist der Verfasser die Trennung und selbstndige Einreihung der Rhrichtgesellschaften fliessender Gewsser (die Verbnde Phalaridion arundinaceae Kopeck 1961 und Glycerio-Sparganion Br.-Bl. et Siss. apud Boer 1942) und stehender Gewsser (Verband Phragmition communis W. Koch 1926) im phytoznologischen System. /// This paper analyses the main ecological differences between the habitats of reed communities on running and stagnant waters. Attention is mainly drawn to the mutual comparison of the habitats of river reed communities of the alliance Phalaridion arundinaceae Kopeck 1961 with reed communities on stagnant waters of the Phragmition communis W. Koch 1926 alliance. The main ecological differences between plant communities of reeds on running and stagnant waters are given in the following survey: 1. The river reeds ecotope-group of the Phalaridion arundinaceae Kopeck 1961 and Glycerio-Sparganion Br.-Bl. et Siss. apud Boer 1942, regardless of whether the stands colonize banks of water courses or basins, are characterized by the following main distinctive marks: a) by the development of reed communities in the ripal, or sometimes littoral bank zone; b) by the quantitative prevalence or balance of the ecological influence of the terrestrial ecophase compared with the total influence of the hydrophase, littoral and limosic ecophase during the ecostage; c) by sudden changes and sharp transitions of ecophases during the ecostage; d) by an ecologically decisive, periodical influence of the water current, or other type of water drift during the period of raised water levels; e) both components of the erosion-accumulation process take part in forming the edatop. The accumulation becomes wholly specific in its quantity and quality, which may be expressed as "piling-up". f) by the specific grain-size composition of soil substratum, usually with predominating minerogenic, stratified relatively coarse-grained stratum sediments; g) by a relatively good gas exchange between the soil and the atmosphere during the vegetation period and by a relatively high oxygen content in the flowing water. 2. The ecotope group of reed communities of stagnant water belonging to the Phragmition communis W. Koch 1926, regardless of whether the stands colonise the banks of water courses or basins isolated on banks, can be characterised by the following main marks: a) by an optimal development of reed stands in the sublittoral, or subripal zone of the bank area; b) by a quantitative prevalence of the hydrophase together with the littoral and limosic ecophases during the ecostage in comparison with the terrestrial ecophase (with exception of the terrestrial stages of phytocoenoses); c) by gradual transitions of ecophases. A relatively sudden change of ecophases arises more rarely (e.g. in cultivated fishponds); d) by missing the influence of a stronger water current or another kind of water drift; e) during the erosion-accumulation process the accumulation predominates and bears the character of a filling-in process; f) mostly the finest categories prevail in the grain-size composition of the soil. An increased humus content is typical; g) the gas exchange between the soil and the atmosphere during the vegetation period is remarkably limited (with the exception of the terrestrial stages of phytocoenoses). Accordingly reduction processes predominate here. 
4179592| In the present paper the results of a biosystematic study of some critical species of Lactuca sect. Lactucopsis are given. After a morphological, chorological, partly cytotaxonomical, chemotaxonomical analysis and experimental crossings the author came to the conclusion that both L. wilhelmsiana Fisch. et Mey ex. DC. and L. chaixii Vill. should be treated as infraspecific taxa of L. quercina L. No differences were found between L. quercina and L. chaixii except in the basic shape of the cauline leaves. L. wilhelmsiana, however, can be distinguished by the length of the beak of the achene and by the distributional area. After revision the correct names of the taxa studied are as follows: Lactuca quercina L., L. quercina var. integrifolia Bogenh. (Bisch.) for L. chaixii, L. quercina subsp. wilhelmsiana (Fisch. et Mey. ex DC.) Ferkov for L. wilhelmsiana. 
4179718|In two investigated ecotypes of Phragmites communis differences in the density and the total number of stomata in the leaves in sites with one ecotype only and in sites with both ecotypes were established. These characteristics did not differ significantly between the sites. The gradients of the density of stomata in successive leaves increased from the base to the apex of the shoot. The differences between the types are due to the high inserted leaves. The gradients were found in a leaf blade; their shape was influenced by the habitats.
4179697|The author gives a survey of fell-field, dwarf shrub- and grass heath-communities of Reykjanes Peninsula. Eight associations were found to belong to this complex; they belong to the alliances Juncion trifidi Krajina, Loiseleurio-Arctostaphylion Kalliola and Nardo-Caricion Bigelowii Nordh. respectively. Their syntaxonomy and ecology are discussed.
4180372|Scattered green was studied in Czechoslovakia by means of the air multispectral photography and of the field observation. According to various repartition and canopy 19 structural types of scattered green were derived.
4179607|In the year 1967, a study was made of the production of the following four selected plant communities arranged in an ecological series according to moisture: Serratuleto-Festucetum commutatae, Gratiola officinalis-Carex praecox-suzae subass. Galium boreale, Gratiola officinalis-Carex praecox-suzae subass. Rorippa silvestris; and Glycerietum maximae, the most humid member, partly left unmowed. Attention was paid to the rate of aerial and root production, root: shoot ratio, weight ratio of various plant groups to the dominant, vertical structure of the vegetation, and ash content. Primary dry matter production was used for determining the values of growth characteristics: relative growth rate R and productivity C.
4180563|The present study deals with African species of Syzygiella Spruce, Allisoniella Hodgs. and Gymnomitriaceae Klinggr. Three species of Syzygiella Spruce, S. geminifolia (Mitt.) Steph., S. concreta (Gott.) Spruce and one indeterminable species with orbicular leaves (known only in sterile condition) occur in Africa. Allisoniella nigra (Rodw.) Schust. represents a genus hitherto unreported for the African flora. The present knowledge of Gymnomitriaceae Klinggr. in subsaharan Africa is summarised; five species of Marsupella Dum., one of Gymnomitrion Corda and five of Herzogobryum Grolle are reported. Finally, some additions to the genera Isotachis Mitt., Anastrophyllum (Spruce) Steph. and Lophozia (Dum.) Dum. are presented.
4180864| The conditions of germination of both fresh and stratified seeds of Alyssum saxatile were investigated in the laboratory at 13 various temperature values. The temperature of 15/25 C was found to be optimum. In stratified seeds germination was accelerated, and the range of range of temperatures suitable for germination became wider. Seeds sown out after ripening sprouted in the first half of June, and by autumn they developed rather robust rosettes. 
4179483| The paper deals with some problems of distribution and variability of the species L. angustissimus L., L. halophilus Boiss. et Sprun., L. laricus Rech. fil., Aellen et Esfandiari, L. schimperi Steud., L. compactus Chrtkov-ertov, L. garcinii DC. 
4181199|The resampling of 46 phytosociological plots 39 years later is used to characterize changes in the field layer of oak and oak-hornbeam forests in the South-East of the Czech Republic, where high densities of fallow deer, red deer and mouflon are kept in game preserves. Detrended correspondence analysis is used to demonstrate the general pattern of change. Changes in particular species performance, cover of field and shrub layers, diversity, life form spectrum and performance of zoochores are described. It is suggested that with increasing grazing pressure, native forest species retreat while the performance of species preferring soils rich in nitrogen and species of ruderal habitats increases. Simultaneously, mesic species are gradually replaced by xeric ones. Possible causes of these changes are discussed.
4179624|Einige alpine, balkanische, mediterrane und kaukasische Arten der Gattung Hieracium werden in die Gattung Pilosella versetzt. Es werden 60 neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen vorgeschlagen.
4181413| The pressurised gas-flows, humidity-induced convection (HIC) and thermal transpiration (TT), which are important for aeration and for greenhouse gas emissions in some wetland macrophytes, are described and discussed. Results obtained from simple mathematical modelling of the processes are presented to illustrate some of their more relevant features. It is emphasised that both processes require the presence of a micro-porous partition having a significantly greater resistance to pressure flow than to diffusion. In particular it is shown that whilst the potential to pressurise by these processes is inversely related to the pore diameters of the partition, the maximum gas flows are generated where pore diameters range from 0.1 to 0.2 m. Where partitions are a surface feature (e.g. emergent macrophytes) a dominant role for HIC is predicted; where partitions are an embedded feature (e.g. water-lilies) it is deduced that HIC will still play a significant role, but the contribution of TT could be greater. 
4180276| In der vorgelegten Studie wurden nach der Methode der Zrich-Montpellierschen Schule 6 Gesellschaften des Onopordion acanthii-Verbandes im nordwestlichen Teil der Donau-Tiefebene bearbeitet (Onopordetum acanthii, Potentillo argenteae-Artemisietum absinthii, Cirsietum eriophori, Lappulo echinatae-Cynoglossetum, Stachyo-Carduetum acanthoidis und Salvio-Marrubietum peregrini). Synmorphologische, symphnologische, synkologische, syntaxonomische, syndynamische und synchorologische Charakteristiken der Gesellschaften wurden durch Beobachtungen von Dauerflchen und Bodenanalysen ergnzt. Neubeschriebene Syntaxa sind Potentillo-Artemisietum absinthii typicum und Salvio-Marrubietum peregrini. Die Arbeit enthlt eine kurze Charakteristik des Onopordion acanthii-Verbandes, der Ordnung Onopordetalia acanthii und der Klasse Artemisietea vulgaris im Hinblick auf das Untersuchungsgebiet. /// Using the phytosociological methods of Zrich-Montpellier School the study on (sub)-thermophilous ruderal vegetation of the northwestern part of Podunajsk Lowlands is presented. The paper is introduced by a general characteristic of the study area (approximately 890 sq. km). The short outline of the characteristics of the order Onopordetalia and the class Artemisietea vulgaris as well are added. The main attention is paid to the associations of the allinace Onopordion acanthii, namely Onopordetum acanthii, Potentillo argenteae-Artemisietum absinthii, Cirsietum eriophori, Lappulo echinatae-Cynoglossetum, Stachyo-Carduetum acanthoidis, Salvio-Marrubietum peregrini, to their synmorphological, synecological and syndynamical features above all. The synchorological characteristics are supplied by a list of authors dealing with the syntaxa under consideration. Following the Code of phytosociological nomenclature the validisation of some syntaxa has been performed. Potentillo argenteae-Artemisietum absinthii typicum and Salvio-Marrubietum peregrini are the new described syntaxa. This is the first study of the series under preparation on the Onopordetalia of the northern part of Podunajsk Lowlands. The treatment of the alliance Dauco-Melilotion will follow. 
4179644| In diesem Beitrag werden die Standortsverhltnisse der kleinkarpatischen Laubwaldgesellschaften (Carici pilosae-Carpinetum, sekundrer Primula-Eichen-Hainbuchenwald, Festuco heterophyllae-Quercetum, Stellario-Alnetum, Carici remotae-Fraxinetum, Dentario bulbiferae-Fagetum, Cephalanthero-Fagetum, Phyllitidi-Aceretum, Luzulo-Fagetum, Eu-Quercion pubescentis, Luzulo albidae-Quercetum) behandelt. Besonders wurden die Beziehungen der genannten Gesellschaften zu den physikalischen und chemischen Bodeneigenschaften und Bodentypen sowie ihre Hhenverbreitung verfolgt. Ein zusammenfassender Standortsvergleich dieser Gesellschaften mit einem Bestimmungsschlssel nach Standortsverhltnisschen ist beigefgt. /// In this paper, the ecological character of forest communities in the southern part of the Lesser Carpathians is discussed. The following communities were analysed: 1. a Carpathian oak-hornbeam forest Carici pilosae-Carpinetum with the moister Dryopteris subass., a typical subass. and the acidophilous Luzula albida subass., 2. a secondary Primula oak-hornbeam forest on calcareous soils, originating from Cephalanthero-Fagetum or Carici-Carpinetum as may be demonstrated by soil types (brown rendsina - Cephalanthero-Fagetum, rendsina-braunerde - Carici pilosae-Carpinetum), 3. an acidophilous subassociation of the mostly secondary, somewhat drier Festuco heterophyllae-Quercetum, 4. an alluvial ash-alder forest Stellario-Alnetum in lower situated valleys with the moister Chrysosplenium subass. and Allium ursinum subass. on fresh soils, 5. an alluvial forest Carici remotae-Fraxinetum on wet to swampy soils (nassgley), 6. a Carpathian herb-rich beech forest Dentario-Fagetum with the slightly oligotrophic Carex pilosa subass. and the very eutrophic Mercurialis subass., 7. a calcareous beech forest Cephalanthero-Fagetum with the moister Circaea subass., a typical subass. and the very thermophilous Carex alba subass., 8. a calcareous ravine forest Phyllitidi-Aceretum on shady slopes in submontane to montane regions, 9. an acidophilous beech forest Luzulo-Quercetum with the slightly acidophilous Luzula subass. and the more oligotrophic Deschampsia flexuosa subass., 10. xerophilous calcareous oak shrub forests of the Eu-Quercion pubescentis suballiance with the Sesleria xerophilous oak forest occurring on ridges and the more xerophilous Ceraso-Quercetum pubescentis on sunny slopes in the warmest regions, 11. an acidophilous oak forest of the lower regions, Luzulo-Quercetum, with a typical subass. and the Genista subass. The ecological relations of these communities are briefly discussed. 
4181345| Dynamics of vegetation was studied on Stora Alvaret in land, Sweden, in comparison with precipitation in the May-July part of the growing period. Three data sets representing three main life forms (shrub, dwarf-shrub, and herbs) were collected: species composition eight grassland permanent plots (1969-1993, ass. Veronica spicata-Avenula pratensis), survival and health status of Juniperus communis (1975-1993), and Calluna vulgaris cover at two permanent plots for the same period. Mortality of Juniperus and Calluna and proportion of annual species were synchronized and correlated with severe droughts. 
4180543|Heliotropium supinum L. is anamphistomatic, amphitrichomic and xeromorphic species. The stomata are anomocytic and their distribution is of potato type. The entire aerial surface of the plant is hairy. The frequency of stomata and hairs is high. The configurations of epidermal cells are straight and highly sinuous on upper and lower surfaces respectively. The stomatal frequency, absolute stomatal number and stomatal index are higher on the lower surface and significantly vary in plants from different sources. The variations in stomatal index on either surface are narrow but the ratio of stomatal indices between the two surfaces is uniform, hence it may be used for taxonomic purposes.
4179648|Natural and artificial hybrids between the tetraploid Arabis hirsuta (L.) Scop. s. str. and two diploid species A. sagittata (Bertol.) DC. or A. planisiliqua (Pers.) Reichenb. are the main subject of this paper. The investigations concern pollination behaviour, sterility, occurrence and frequency of hybrids, their morphology and cytology. Some questions concerning relations of the taxa within the complex and the significance of hybrids in the variability of natural mixed populations are discussed.
4179716| Seasonal changes in the growth rate of duckweeds - Lemna minor L. and L. gibba L. associated in the community Lemnetum gibbae (W. Koch 1954) Miyawaki et Tx. 1960 - were investigated at the Podzmeck fishpond at Prhonice near Praha, during the growing season of 1969. Initial and final dry weight values (W
4180605| A survey of the nitrophilous fringe communities of the region Marche (Central Italy) allows the individualization of five associations well characterized floristically and ecologically. These are: Urtico-Aegopodietum, Anthriscetum sylvestris, Chaerophylletum aurei, Alliario-Chaerophylletum temuli, and Anthriscetum nemorosae. The first three associations are ranged, from the phytosociological point of view, in the alliance Aegopodion podagrariae, while the last two belong to the alliance Galio-Alliarion. /// L'tude de la vgtation nitrophile de lisire des Marches (Italie Centrale) a permis l'individualisation de cinq associations bien distinctes sur les plans floristiqu et cologiqu: Urtico-Aegopodietum Tx. (1947) 1967 emend., Anthriscetum sylvestris Hada 1978, Chaerophylletum aurei Oberd. 1957, Alliario-Chaerophylletum temuli Lohm. 1949 et Anthriscetum nemorosae Hruka 1981. Du point de vue phytosociologique, les trois premires font partie de l'alliance Aegopodion podagrariae, tandis que les trois premires font partie de l'alliance Aegopodion podagrariae, tandis que les deux dernires appartiennent  l'alliance Galio-Alliarion. 
4181245| The set of 25 aquatic and shoreline species which immigrated to the new reservoir Rozko during the 21 years after its creation were analyzed with respect to their time of immigration, distance of nearest source localities, life form, seed size, and reproductive system. The reservoir consists of two parts, one with fluctuating and the other with stabilized water level. The immigrating species originated from various distances, from nearby to more than 100 km away. A distance of tens of kilometers can be overcome by many shoreline species, provided that suitable (low competition) habitats are available. The survival time was correlated with the reproductive system: species with autogamic or vegetative reproduction survived longer. Establishment was more successful under a fluctuating water level, which decreased the competitive exclusion of immigrated species by helophytes. 
4179774| The authors reconstruct the development of some waterlogged meadows in the central part of the umava foothills. The palaeoecological investigation of the meadows is based on the macroscopic analyses, completed with pollen analyses, of Late Holocene (Late Flandrian) sediments in five profiles. It is suggested that, in the course of the last 600 to 700 years, the meadows developed as a secondary plant community, replacing original alder stands, due to the activity of man in the area; they usually passed through seminatural meadow types to the present cultivated stands. In addition to detailed descriptions of local successions on various sites, the study presents some general conclusions concerning the cenotic and synecological adaptability of some plants, discusses the development of plant communities and their changes in time. 
4180416|A new species of Edmundmasonia Subram., E. villosa, is illustrated and described from decaying culms of bamboo collected in Cuba. Two others, which are Indian species, are briefly discussed.
4180354| Das Studium der Keimungskologie von Arten der Gattung Cynoglossum im Laboratorium und auf einer Versuchsparzelle hat nachgewiesen, dass bei ihren Frchten eine ausgeprgte Samenruhe entwickelt ist, die durch doppelten Hemmungsmechanismus der Testa verursacht wird. Die Testa verhindert die Keimung einerseits durch ihre Semipermiabilitt, anderseits dadurch, dass sie die Auslaugung von Inhibitoren der Keimung aus dem Embryo verhindert. Die Dormanz unter Laborbedingungen kann durch Beseitigung der Testa, teilweise auch durch deren ausgedehntere Verletzung, unterbrochen werden. Dasselbe kann auch durch eine kalte bzw. kalt-warme Stratifikation erzielt werden, die den Bedingungen am nchsten steht, bei denen die Samenruhe in der Natur unterbrochen wird. Die Auslaugung mit Wasser und die Behandlung mit GA
4179680| Das Stellario-Alnetum glutinosae aus Bhmen und Mhren wird in phytoznologischer Hinsicht behandelt. Diese Gesellschaft ist ein periodisch oder episodisch berschwemmter Erlen-Eschen-Auenwald der kollinen Stufe und der niedrigsten Lagen der submontanen Stufe. Nach der Bodenfeuchtigkeit und dem Bodenluftregime wurden die folgenden Subassoziationen unterschieden: 1. das Stellario-Alnetum crepidetosum mit langfristig versumpftem Oberboden und ungnstigem Luftregime des Bodens, 2. das S.-A. chrysosplenietosum mit nassem bis feuchtem, jedoch nicht versumpften Oberboden und relativ gnstigem Bodenluftregime, 3. das S.-A. allietosum ursini mit feuchtem bis frischem Oberboden und gnstigem Bodenluftregime und 4. das S.-A. typicum mit feuchtem bis etwas austrocknendem Oberboden und sehr gnstigem Bodenluftregime. /// This paper gives the results of phytocoenologic-ecological research of Stellario-Alnetum (Mikyka 1944) Lohmeyer 1957 in the Western part of Czechoslovakia. This community is a typical Alnion glutinoso-incanae-forest in brook valleys of the colline and lower submontane situations. Stellario-Alnetum is characterised by the dominance of alder and ash in the tree layer and by the occurrence of the (hygro)mesophilous differential species of the association, Stellaria nemorum, S. holostea, Pulmonaria*obscura and Lamium maculatum in the herb layer. This community represents, from the ecological point of view, a periodically or episodically flooded alluvial forest on gley soils (typical Gley, Braunerde-Gley). According to the soil moisture and air regime 4 subassociations can be distinguished: 1. Stellario-Alnetum crepidetosum paludosae with often wet to swampy soils, high groundwater table (typical Gley) and unfavourable air regime of the soils, 2. S.-A. chrysosplenietosum on moister to wet, but not swampy soils with high groundwater table (typical Gley) and well aerated soils, 3. S.-A. allietosum ursini with fresh soils in the dry period with a high or low groundwater table (typical Gley, Braunerde-Gley) and the well aerated soils, 4. the relatively dry S.-A. typicum with mostly low groundwater table (Braunerde-Gley) and very well aerated soils. The relations of Stellario-Alnetum to the allied Central-European alluvial communities as well as the geographical distribution of this association in Central Europe are briefly discussed. 
4179649| A program for polythetic numerical evaluation of phytosociological material is described. Using Srensen's coefficient of floristic similarity it computes the homogeneity of subjectively chosen sets of relevs, the affinity of each constituent relev to the set as well as the similarity between any pair of sets. It is also able to plot a dendrogram of the hierarchic system obtained by agglomerating individual relevs into complex groupings. The program is suitable for processing phytosociological data arranged in any conventional table. 
4179428| Weitere Ergebnisse einer monographischen Revision der Flechtenfamilie Gyalectaceae (im Sinne von Zahlbruckner 1926) werden hier vorgelegt. Sie betreffen zwei taxonomisch bisher nur wenig studierte Gattungen Ramonia Stiz. und Gloeolecta Lett. Beide werden durch eine Emendation der Diagnosen genauer abgegrenzt. Neben der Gattungscharakteristik und der Artenbeschreibungen wird noch eine bersicht der geprften Herbar-Belege beigefgt. Verwandtschaftlich stehen beide Gattungen den Thelotremataceen viel nher als den Gyalectaceen, zu welchen sie bisher eingegliedert waren. /// Further results of a monographical revision of the lichen family Gyalectaceae (sensu Zahlbruckner 1926) are presented. They concern two genera - Ramonia Stiz. and Gloeolecta Lett.; these genera have not been sufficiently studied up to now. They are more exactly defined by emendation of the diagnosis. A list of proved herbarium items is added to the genus characterization and description of the species. Both genera are more related to the family Thelotremataceae than to the family Gyalectaceae, in which they have so far been classified. 
4180932| Saxifraga marginata Sternb. is divided into three subspecies: S. m. subsp. marginata, S. m. subsp. bubakii (Rohlena) Chrtek et Sojk, S. m. subsp. karadzicensis (Degen et Koanin) Chrtek et Sojk (environments of Skopje, Macedonia). 
4179620| The homogeneity of sets of phytosociological relevs or syntaxa - the homotoneity - is tested by means of a homotoneity-coefficient. This coefficient consists of the basic homotoneity-coefficient expressing the proportion of highly constant species (61-100%) in the species composition of the average relev and the correcting factor which is proportional to the difference of species number between the richest and poorest relev. Successive analysis of heterotoneity of sets of relevs for detecting sources of heterotoneity is proposed. 
4181181| Two new hybrids in the genus Thymus, Th.  indalicus Blanca et al., nothosp. nov. [= Th. baeticus Boiss. ex Lacaita  Th. hyemalis Lange subsp. hyemalis] and Th.  enicensis Blanca et al., nothosp. nov. [= Th. hyemalis Lange subsp. hyemalis  Th. zygis Loefl. ex L. subsp. gracilis (Boiss.) R. Morales] are described. Until now no hybrids of Th. hyemalis have been described, due to its early period of flowering and because it hybridizes with closely related species, making rather difficult the detection of such hybrids. 
4181395|The effect of competition on species coexistence is usually strongly modified by other factors especially in non-equilibrium systems of sessile organisms with limited availability of propagules. As a consequence, competition-based assembly rules (even if their existence seems to be unambiguously detected) would result in incomplete understanding of the coexistence of species in plant communities. J. Bastow Wilson suggested measuring variance deficit in the number of co-occurring species as a means to detect niche limitation in a community. The method provides a relatively simple and quick "snap-shot" analysis of a community. However, it has been questioned whether niche limitation is the only factor which might account for variance deficit. The paper presents a spatially explicit simulation experiment in which artificial communities are produced by pre-defined rules for competitive interactions. Then we examine whether these rules can be detected by a proposed method for pattern analysis. Two limiting cases are simulated: (A) all the species share the same niche, and (B) all the species have different niches. The difference between these cases in the variance of species numbers is examined. Using the simulation results, some basic spatial constraints upon species assembly are emphasized. It is argued that the assumptions of Wilson's approach confine its applicability to species-saturated equilibrium communities. The study of assembly rules in dynamically changing, spatially structured communities requires the consideration of a set of coenological characteristics and the use of careful spatio-temporal scaling to detect their patterns. The use of spatially explicit individual-based models to study the mechanisms and constraints limiting species coexistence at different scales is suggested.
4180791|In the years 1985-1986, the primary succession of algae on dumps from brown coal mining was studied in the Most region (North Bohemia, Czechoslovakia). The colonization of sterile clayic substrates by algae (several coccal species of chlorophytes and heteroconts) and mosses (protonemata) starts before the first ecesis of higher plants (in deposits about 3 months old). Diatoms and, later, cyanophytes accompany the algal community after 1 year. Filamentous types of heteroconts and green algae occur first on 7 year old dumps. Green algae represent the commonest group throughout the succession. The number of species continuously increases with the age of the dumps and finally reaches about 40 species from the 18th to 30th year. The species composition is similar to that in grassland biotopes in Czechoslovakia.
4181168| Directional changes of vegetation in a wet meadow complex are described, comparing phytosociological relevs taken in 1956, 1963, 1984 and 1989, and vegetation maps made in 1956 and 1984. The relevs were located at various distances from the pond shore predominantly reflecting differences in water regime and intensity of farming. The data were elaborated using direct and indirect gradient analyses. Alterations of environmental factors (moisture, nitrogen) were expressed using Ellenberg's indicator values. Over most of the area, the former distinct vegetation mosaic has been replaced by uniform meadows due to intensive farming. The area was eutrophicated and partly drained, clearly shown in Ellenberg's indicator values, in species composition and vegetation pattern. Rapid processes of ruderalization took place. A scheme of successional pathways which finally emerged can be applied to analogous wet meadows in comparable geographical regions and used as a tool for prognoses of successional processes in meadows under human impact. The paper demonstrates ways to exploit earlier phytosociological records. 
4179647| In der verbreitungsbiologischen Terminologie gibt es viele Synonyme und berflssige Ausdrcke, was speciell fr die Systematik der Verbreitungstypen gilt. Die Autoren schlagen in diesem Beitrag eine Neufassung der verbreitungsbiologischen Terminologie auf. Sie sttzt sich hauptschlich auf die von europischen Forschern entwickelten Ansichten und Begriffen und ist um neue Vorschlge erweitert. /// In the terminology of biological spreading there are many synonyms and superfluous terms, especially in the classification of spreading types. This paper proposes a new conception based primarily on the opinions and terms used by European authors, and completed by a new proposal here. The following terms are proposed here for the first time: Heterodiaspory - an analogous term to heterocarpy and heterospermy (if the diaspore in general is meant); Piptochors - barochors, whose diaspores when ripened are loosened from the parent plant and fall to earth; Clinochors - barochors, whose stems in the post-floral period bend down to earth where the diaspores are loosened; Cystometeorochors - meteorochors with air-filled structures; Pterometeorochors - meteorochors provided with wing-like organs of various morphological origin; Trichometeorochors - meteorochors with trichome-like features of various morphological origin; Cystonautochors - nautochors provided with air-filled structures; Pteronautochors - nautochors provided with wing-like organs; Trichonautochors - nautochors - provided with trichome-like features; Kinochors - species whose diaspores are distributed by the impact of people and animals: Ethelochors - hemerochors whose species are deliberately distributed by man; Diasporology - this term is proposed to replace the discussed term "carpobiology"; Biotic typeclass - species whose diaspores are distributed by their own powers or by man and animals; Abiotic typeclass - species whose diaspores are distributed by abiotic agents. 
4179453| Puccinia tatrensis Urban on Geum reptans in Czechoslovakia is recognized as a subspecies of Puccinia sieversiae Arth. Puccinia waldsteiniae, P. gei and P. gei-parviflori appear to be the most ancient rusts known on the tribe Geeae and it is assumed that their common ancestral form was already present in the Cretaceous period. Puccinia sieversiae is more advanced and has its centre of origin and spread in Central Asia. Phylogenetically most advanced and at the same time most differentiated from each other are species of Phragmidium, i.e. P. circumvallatum and P. miyabeanum. /// Der ursprnglich als neue Art aus den slowakischen Karpaten beschriebene Rostpilz Puccinia tatrensis Urban wird im vorliegenden Beitrag als eine Subspecies der nordamerikanischen Puccinia sieversiae Arth. neu aufgefasst. Auf Grund der Phylogenie der Tribus Geeae und des morphologischen Merkmalkomplexes der heute bekannten, auf der letztgenannten Tribus parasitierenden Puccinia-Arten gelangt der Autor zur Ansicht, dass solche Rostarten wie Puccinia waldsteiniae, P. gei und P. gei-parviflori phylogenetisch als sehr alt anzusehen sind. Der Ursprung der gemeinsamen Urform der letztgenannten drei Arten kann in der Kreidezeit vorausgesetzt werden. Das Entwicklungszentrum der phylogenetisch jngeren Puccinia sieversiae knnte auf den Hochebenen Zentralasiens vorausgesetzt werden. Die auf der Tribus Geeae parasitierenden Phragmidium-Arten, bzw. P. circumvallatum und P. miyabeanum sind mit ihrem Areal auf Eurasien beschrnkt. Zwischen beiden Arten bestehen betrchtliche morphologische, sowie auch kologische Unterschiede, was auf ihre relativ jngere Entstehung hinweist. 
4180930| The description of a man-made forest community, the Clematidi vitalbae-culti-Pinetum nigrae, has nothing to do with the solution of the problem native status of Pinus nigra in the Mal Karpaty Mts. The critical objections both to the syntaxonomical procedure and ecological evaluation (Ellenberg) proved to be unjustified. 
4179424| The paper sums up the information which the author has so far collected about the habitats and phytocenotic conditions of the glacial relics of Scorpidium scorpioides (Hedw.) Limpr., Calliergon trifarium (Web. et Mohr.) Kindb., Paludella squarrosa (Hedw.) Brid., and Meesia triquetra (Hook. et Tayl.) Aongstr. in the Highlands eskomoravsk vrchovina (Bohemian-Moravian Highlands) in Czechoslovakia. Simultaneously, it presents a survey of the localities in which the occurrence of these species has been ascertained up to now. /// In dieser Arbeit werden die Ergebnisse des Studiums der Verbreitung, der Standortsverhltnisse und der znotischen Verhltnisse der sogenannten Glazialrelikte Scorpidium scorpioides (Hedw.) Limpr., Calliergon trifarium (Web. et Mohr.) Kindb., Paludella squarrosa (Hedw.) Brid. und Meesia triquetra (Hook. et Tayl.) Aongstr. auf der Bhmisch-Mhrischen Hhe (eskomoravsk vrchovina) in der Tschechoslowakei vorgelegt. Aus angefhrten Erkenntnissen lassen sich fr die einzelnen Arten folgende Schlsse ziehen: Scorpidium scorpioides und Calliergon trifarium stellen ein Moos-Paar dar, welches im Gebiete die an Mineralien reichsten Moor-Standorte mit stetem, mssig ber der Bodenoberflche stehendem Grundwasserspiegel indiziert. Aus der Zerlegung der Standortsangaben auch von anderen Gebieten ist ersichtlich, dass beide Arten nicht ausschliesslich und extrem kalkliebend sind. Im Gebiete wachsen sie vorwiegend auf Standorten mit Silikatunterlagen, welche unter dem Einfluss von weichem bis sehr weichem Wasser stehen. Es wre besser, den diagnostischen Wert von Scorpidium auf eine Gruppe dauernd berfluteter und nicht extrem kalziphiler Tofieldietalia-Gesellschaften, wo auch Calliergon trifarium sein Optimum hat, zu beschrnken. Die Stellung dieser Gesellschaften im Rahmen der Ordnung Tofieldietalia bentigt eine besondere Studie. Paludella squarrosa ist vom kologischem Standpunkt aus eine ziemlich variable und anpassungsfhige Art. Im studierten Gebiet ist das Optimum ihres Vorkommens auf Standorten mit niedrigerem Grundwasserspiegel auf mineralisch ziemlich gut versorgten Substraten verzeichnet worden. Auf der Bhmisch-Mhrischen Hhe charakterisiert trotz der grossen Variabilitt in den Ansprchen an den Standort, Paludella squarrosa zusammen mit den brigen Arten (Tomenthypnum nitens, Aulacomnium palustre, Sphagnum warnstorfianum, Eriophorum latifolium u. a.) gut die Gruppe der Gesellschaften der Ordnung Caricetalia fuscae W. Koch 1926, welche den bergang zu den Braunmoor-(Niedermoor-) Gesellschaften der Ordnung Tofieldietalia Prsg. apud Oberdorfer 1949 bilden. Die Bestimmung der znotaxonomischen Stellung und der diagnostischen Werte dieses Mooses in Hinsicht zum ganzen Artenareal erfordert jedoch ein lngeres Studium. Meesia triquetra bildet unter den brigen studierten Moosen eine Art, welche die niedrigsten Ansprche auf basische Ionen in den Standortswssern stellt. Zum Unterschiede von den brigen studierten Arten wchst Meesia an Standorten mit  stagnierendem Wasser. Das Grundwasser bleibt gewhnlich nahe der Oberflche, aber Meesia vertrgt auch lnger anhaltende berflutung. Vom znotaxonomischen Standpunkt aus entspricht die Bewertung dieses Mooses als charakteristische Art des Verbandes Eriophorion gracilis Prsg. apud Oberd. 1949, voll den Verhltnissen auf der Bhmisch-Mhrischen Hhe. 
4180769| Floristic composition and ecology of a segetal community was estimated and related to changes of cover and the height of the crop stand. Properties of dominant species are described. Results are commented from the point of view of autecology of participant species. /// Beim verschiedenen Deckungsgrad der Gerste unterscheidet sich die Zusammensetzung der Unkrautznose. Das berwiegen einer Art hngt am meisten von ihrem speziellen Wachstum und ihrer Lebensform ab, die entscheiden, ob sie sich als Dominante durchsetzen kann. kologische Ansprche der Art, vor allem die Beziehung zum Stickstoffgehalt und zu den Lichtbedingungen, bestimmen, bei welchem Deckungsgrad der Kulturpflanze die Art die hchste Dominanz erreicht. Mit steigendem Deckungsgrad der Gerste erreichen die einzelnen Dominanten ihr Vertretungsmaximum in folgender Reihenfolge: Medicago lupulina var. willdenowiana, Fallopia convolvulus, Veronica persica, Stellaria media und Galium aparine. Auf Grund der Eigenschaften der Segatalvegetation (floristische Zusammensetzung, Artendiversitt, Artenquitabilitt, Anzahl der Arten) kann der Bestand des Feldes in drei Bereiche eingeteilt werden, die im grossen und ganzen der Dngung mit unterschiedlichen Stickstoffgaben entsprechen (ungedngte Streifen, 70 kg N/ha und 140 kg N/ha). 
4181268|Two subspecies of Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla were cultivated in submerged and non-submerged conditions. The production of tubers, the proportion of tubers remaining dormant and the time between production and reactivation were investigated. Total tuber production was found to be dependent on subspecies and may be considered a biological character of the subspecies. Bolboschoenus maritimus ssp. compactus, a subspecies of less flooded habitats, produced more tubers with a greater capacity for growth leaving a smaller proportion of dormant tubers. Inactivity of tubers and their reactivation after one or two years were enhanced by submergence in both subspecies. The proportion of tubers that are permanently dormant as well as the dormancy of the whole plant are important features influencing the survival of populations of B. maritimus over periods of unfavourable conditions.
4179549| This paper contains a brief survey of the four subgeneric sections which comprise the genus Brassavola R. Br. of the Orchidaceae, with special reference to the group of species ( Grandiflorae Rolfe) which Schlechter proposed separating from Brassavola as the genus Rhyncholaelia. The author maintains that these species should be allowed to remain in Brassavola as a distinct section. 
4180730| The paper brings a description of the Malvion neglectae communities in the Podunajsk nina lowland (Malvetum neglectae, Malvetum pusillae, Matricario-Anthemitetum cotulae, Polygono-Chenopodietum muralis and Chenopodium hybridum-comm). The emphasis is put upon the synmorphological, synecological and syntaxonomical features of the studied communities. The Polygono-Chenopodietum muralis is described as a new association. /// Die Malvion neglectae-Ruderalpflanzengesellschaften wurden aus den nrdwestlichen Teil der Donau-Tiefebene beschrieben. Es handelt sich um folgende Gesellschaften: Malvetum neglectae, Malvetum pusillae, Matricario-Anthemitetum cotulae, Polygono-Chenopodietum muralis und die Chenopodium hybridum-Ges. Besonders wurden synmorphologische, syntaxonomische und synkologische Charakteristika den Gesellschaften betonen. Eimge syndynamische Bemarkungen wurden zugefgt. Das Matricario-Anthemitetum cotulae und die Chenopodium hybridum-Ges. werden das erste Mal aus dem Gebiet der Slowakei dokumentiert. Das Polygono-Chenopodietum muralis wird as neue Gesellschaft beschrieben. Es zeigt sich eine Ntigkeit archaische Typen von Malvion-Gesellschaften zu schtzen. 
4180732|Mire vegetation in the Apuanian Alps (N Italy) is analyzed from the phytosociological and the synecological points of view. Three vegetation types are delimited by numerical methods and compared with mire communities of the Alps and the Apennines. Furthermore, a chorological evaluation of this vegetation is attempted on a floristical basis.
4180444|Karyotaxonomical investigations into the Juncus bufonius aggregate in Slovakia revealed the existence of three cytodemes, namely 2n = 34, 2n = c. 72, 2n = c. 100-110.
4181019|The
4180557| The importance of endemic species for plant communities in the Roumanian Carpathians Mts. has been studied and discussed. Associations of the class Asplenietea trichomanis endemic in the South Carpathians were surveyed; they were classified into some endemic alliances (Gypsophilion petraeae, Micromerion pulegii, and Silenion lerchenfeldianae). Their locus classicus, nomenclatoric type and present distribution were also given. /// Die Arbeit bespricht zuerst die znogenetische Rolle der Phytoendemiten im rumnischen Karpatenraum, die in speziellen Fllen, als geographische Kennoder Assoziationsdifferential-Arten, lokale Pflanzengesellschaften oder Gebietsassoziationen charakterisieren knnen, die dann unmittelbar auch endemische Syntaxa (Verbnde, Assoziationen) umschreiben. Als konkrete Beispiele werden zunchst karpatogene, hauptschlich sdostkarpatisch-endemische Felsspalten-Phytoassoziationen der Klasse Asplenietea trichomanis, in ihrer aktuellen syntaxonomischen Gliederung, gegenwrtig bekannten Verbreitung in den Sdostkarpaten, ihr "locus classicus" und nomenklatorischer Typus vorgestellt. Es werden folgende, sdostkarpatisch-endemische Phytoassoziationen behandelt: 1. Artemisio petrosae-Gypsophiletum petraeae Pucaru et al. 56 nom. mut. 2. Saxifrago rochelianae-Gypsophiletum petraeae Bocaiu, Tuber et Coldea 77 3. Saxifrago demissae-Gypsophiletum petraeae Bocaiu et Tuber 77 5. Achilleo schurii-Campanuletum cochleariifoliae Fink 77 5. Saxifrago moschatae-Drabetum kotschyi Borhidi 58 6. Sileno zawadzkii-Saxifragetum luteo-viridis (Paw. 36) Paw. et Wal. 49 nom. mut. 7. Micromerio pulegii-Parietarietum officinalis Bocaiu 71 nom. mut. 8. Asplenio-Silenetum petraeae Bocaiu 71 9. Seslerio rigidae-Saxifragetum rochelianae Bocaiu 71 10. Campanulo carpaticae-Saxifragetum cuneifoliae (Zlyomi 39) Sanda et Popescu 76 11. Campanulo crassipedis Schneider-Binder, Bocaiu et al. 70 12. Drabo lasiocarpae-Ceterachetum officinarum (Schneider-Binder, Bocaui et al. 70) Peia 78 13. Senecioni glaberrimi-Silenetum lerchenfeldianae Bocaiu, Tuber et Coldea 77 14. Silenetum dinaricae Schneider-Binder et Voik 76 15. Veronico bachofenii-Potum nemoralis Borza 59 nom. inv. Abschliessend wird die interdisziplinre Betrachtungsweise und eine bessere phytogeographische Unterbauung der Pflanzensoziologie unterstrichen. 
4179548|The taxonomy and geographical distribution of Echinodorus grandiflorus (Cham. et Schlecht.) Mich. (Alismataceae) are stated. Former authors also included plants from southern Brazil and Argentina in this species, without the typical pellucid points on the blades; these belong to different species or to hybrids. The author further describes the hybrids of E. grandiflorus with some other species of the same genus and two varieties.
4181132| This part of the comments on the Code of phytosociological nomenclature deals with questions of the effective and valid publication of names of syntaxa, with different types of validation of names, as well as with the original diagnosis of syntaxa. Explanations of the application of the respective articles and recommendations based on personal experience with the preparation of the Code as well as personal proposals for modification of the Code are added. /// Dieser Teil des Kommentars zum Code der pflanzensoziologischen Nomenklatur befasst sich mit allgemeinen Problemen der wissenschaftlichen Nomenklatur und der richtigen Anwendung des Codes, besonders aber mit den Kapiteln 1 und 2. Die Bedingungen der wirksamen und gltigen Verffentlichung der Namen, die Probleme der Validierung von Namen, die ausreichende Originaldiagnose der Syntaxa und ihre Anwendung in Syntaxonomie und Nomenklatur werden ausfhrlich behandelt. Die Bedingungen der wirksamen Verffentlichung sind bei kommerziell erzeugten und zum Verkauf bestimmten Druckschriften praktisch eindeutig erfllt, ohne Rcksicht auf die angewandte Technik. Bei den zu einen bestimmten Zweck gelegentlich erzeugten Schriften (z.B. Dissertationen oder Exkursionsfhrer) ist die Erfllung der Bedingungen der wirksamen Verffentlichung problematisch, denn ihre Anzahl und Verteilung an die ffentlichkeit sind beschrnkt (sie sind nicht zum Verkauf bestimmt) und von den Pflanzensoziologen kaum kontrollierbar. Die Herstellungstechnik kann in diesen Fllen kaum als entscheidend betrachtet werden. Es sollte eine eindeutigere Lsung dieser Flle gefunden werden. Die gltige Verffentlichung eines Syntaxonnamens beruht auf der Erfllung mehrere Bedingungen, unter den als erste die wirksame Verffentlichung (im Jahre 1910 oder spter) angefhrt ist. Die zwei anderen Bedingungen sind einfach - das benannte Syntaxon muss mittels ausreichender Originaldiagnose definiert werden und sein Name muss von wissenschaftlichen Pflanzennamen abgeleitet sein. Ab 1.1.1979 kam eine weitere Bedingung fr die gltige Verffentlichung des Namens hinzu: die Angabe des nomenklatorischen Typus (bzw. die Anwesenheit eines einzigen als Typus geeigneten Elementes in der Originaldiagnose). ber eine gltige Verffentlichung des Syntaxonamens sollte man nur dann sprechen, wenn alle notwendigen Bedingungen in einer einzigen Publikation gleichzeitig erfllt sind. Leider stellt man noch 11 Jahre nach der ersten Verffentlichung des Codes fest, dass nahezu ein Drittel der neuen Namen ungltig verffentlicht wurde. Der Code ermglicht es, die ungltig verffentlichten Namen nachtrglich zu validieren. Leider sind im Code weder alle Flle der Validierung noch ihre praktische Lsung angefhrt. Deshalb ist eine bersicht der Flle der ungltigen Verffentlichungen der Namen mit dem Vorschlag ihrer Validierung und dem entsprechend modifizierten Autorzitat beigefgt. Die ausreichende Originaldiagnose wird besonders unter dem Gesichtspunkt der Nachprfung, ob sie wirklich ausreichend ist, diskutiert. Es werden die wichtigsten Flle der syntaxonomischen und nomenklatorischen Anwendung der Originaldiagnose sowie die Fehler erwhnt, die aufgrund von Vernachlssigung oder Fehlinterpretation der Originaldiagnose entstehen knnen. 
4181122|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1989, 588 names have been listed. For each one of them, an appreciation about its validity is given relating to the Code of Nomenclature. 15 names are given in addition to the "Index 1987" (Theurillat et Moravec 1990) and 53 to the "Index 1988" (Theurillat et Moravec 1991).
4180860| The development of vegetation and environment in the Kamenisk kotlina Basin, the Bohemian-Moravian Uplands, Czechoslovakia, during the last 12,000 years is described. The succession of local spring mire vegetation is studied. The results from Kameniky are compared with those from the not too-distant Zalben bog. A re-evaluation of the previous time zonation in the pollen diagram from Zalben is suggested. 
4179978| Germination of the achenes in Myrrhis odorata (L.) Scop. has been examined both in the laboratory and in the experimental plot at Prhonice. Seven samples of achenes collected in the period 1967 to 1974 in montane and submontane regions of the Orlick Mts., Krkonoe Mts. and Jizersk Mts., Czechoslovakia, were used in experiments examining the impact of different stratification. The seeds of this species pass through a dormancy stage which is caused by an underdeveloped embryo. The dormancy could be broken by cold stratification only. The germination started after a period of 59 to 65 days in the variant stratified at -1 to +5 C, and after 63 to 82 days in the variant stratified at +3 to +5 C. The majority of seeds germinated after 70 to 90 days in the former and after 80 to 110 days in the latter variant. /// Die Keimungskologie von Myrrhis odorata wurde einige Jahre lang im Laboratorium und auf einer Versuchsparzelle in Prhonice untersucht. Die Unterbrechung der Dormanz wurde nur bei jenen Samen erzielt, die bei einer Temperatur von 1 bis 5 C, d. h. bei Varianten
4180319|The author submits the diagnosis of a new form of Rosa canina L. s.l., which grows in West Pomerania in the environs of Gryfino. It is a characteristic peculiarity of the taxon described that its pedicels are permanently and thickly pilose during the whole life of the plant.
4180837|The present paper gives comments on the nomenclature of associations of Nardetalia and Nardo-Caricion rigidae from Central Europe. A brief list of important homonyms and ambiguous names is added.
4180418|The contribution concerns typification of names of orders and alliances which belong to the orders Nardetalia and Juncetalia squarrosi. The rejection of the following alliance names is suggested for various reasons: Festuco ovinae-Nardion Klika 1958, Nardo-Agrostion capillaris Nordhagen 1937, Nardo-Trifolion alpini Preising 1949.
4181557| Differences between two subspecies of Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla (= Scirpus maritimus L.) in different habitats (littoral and terrestrial) are partly due to variations in the buoyancy of their achenes, caused by different anatomical structure of the fruits. This hypothesis was tested by comparing fruit buoyancy and anatomy of both subspecies at several localities. Plants were sampled from Bolboschoenus maritimus subsp. maritimus (plants with branched inflorescences and triangular fruits, 4 localities) and B. maritimus subsp. compactus (Hoffm.) Hejn (plants with compact inflorescences and prevailing concave fruits, 4 localities) in the Czech and Slovak Republics, and B. maritimus subsp. compactus (plants with compact inflorescences and convex fruits, 1 locality) from the coast of South Sweden. From each locality a plant with several tubers connected by rhizomes was taken and transferred into the experimental garden; from these cultivated plants (clones) mixed samples of fruits collected from each clone were used for buoyancy tests and a study of their anatomy. Fruit buoyancy was found to depend on the anatomical structure of the pericarp - the presence of aeriferous tissue in the exocarp serves as the main floating organ. This differentiated all plants studied into two groups: short-floating subsp. maritimus, with a thin or none aeriferous tissue in the exocarp, and long-floating subsp. campactus with well developed aeriferous tissue. Differences in fruit buoyancy corresponds to differences in the prevailing habitat types of both subspecies studied in the inland sites: the frequent occurrence of subsp. campactus in temporarily flooded terrestrial habitats contrasts with the prevalence of subsp. maritimus in the littoral of water bodies. This is an example of intra-specific ecological differentiation leading to differentiation in wetland communities. 
4179657|The ecology of two dominant grass species growing in xerothermic grasslands of the Bohemian Karst has been compared. Field observations and experimental cultivations showed that Festuca valesiaca Gaudin can better tolerate more extreme dry and warm conditions of southern slopes. Festuca rupicola Heuff. possesses greater competitive capacity in deeper and wetter soils. Young seedlings of F. valesiaca survive successfully the overheating of the soil surface exposed to strong insolation.
4180155| In dieser Arbeit wird ber 3 Catillaria- und 19 Bacidia-Arten berichtet, die in einer Kollektion foliicoler Flechten aus Zare festgestellt wurden. Von diesen werden folgende Arten als neu beschrieben: Catillaria encephalarti sp. n., C. mirabilis sp. n., Bacidia ituriensis sp. n., B. lisowskii sp. n., B. sorediantha sp. n. und B. wirthii sp. n. Erstmalig in Afrika werden Bacidia dimidiata (Babingt.) R. Sant. und B. micrommata (Krempelh.) R. Sant. nachgewiesen. Auf dem aus Goniocysten bestehenden Lager von Catillaria mirabilis (sp. n.) kommen soralhnliche Goniocystangien vor; diese bei Flechten zuvor erst einmal beobachteten Vermehrungsorgane werden nher behandelt. Ein Bestimmungsschlssel aller bisher bekannten foliicolen Catillaria-Arten sowie Ergnzungen zu dem frher publizierten Schlssel fr afrikanische foliicole Bacidia-Arten werden vorgelegt. 
4180656|Measurements were made, for several seasons, both of the growth rate and biomass production of stands of Bolboschoenus maritimus, the seasonal development of the vertical stand structure together with parallel measurements of microclimatological data including incoming global radiation. Water and bottom soil chemical analyses in relation to the nutrient content in the biomass were compared. The ecological adaptation of the acidophilic subspecies B. m. ssp. maritimus, growing in south-Bohemian oligotrophic fishpond waters with that of the halophilic ssp. compactus was studied in experimental hydroponic cultures and the results discussed with the findings of other authors from different European habitats. The efficiency of solar energy conversion of incoming radiation was calculated by means of energy content biomass analysis.
4181050| Named after its collector Jos Badini, Eulophia badinii is described and distinguished from the only other known species of the genus from Brazilian territory. Floral analysis and type diagnosis are used for the description, which is based mainly on floral characters. 
4181279| The results of a taxonomic study of the Cardamine pratensis group from the Carpathians and Pannonia are presented. Five species are shown to occur in the area studied, namely Cardamine pratensis L., C. matthioli Moretti, C. majovskii Marhold et Zborsk, C. dentata Schult. and C. rivularis Schur. Full synonymy, descriptions, chromosome numbers, taxonomic history, distribution data and ecological notes are provided. 
4179861| Absconditella pauxilla Vzda et Vivant, un nouveau lichen des Pyrnes-Atlantiques est dcrit ici, la diagnose originale tant accompagne d'une planche dessine. Toutes les espces actuellement connues d' Absconditella sont runies dans la cl ci-jointe. 
4181303| Most theories of plant species coexistence assume the presence of diversity maintenance mechanisms, i.e. mechanisms enhancing species richness in a community. We wished to determine whether such a mechanism was operating by establishing a field experiment in the species-rich wooded meadow of Laelatu, western Estonia. Ten to seventeen subordinate species were removed periodically (for 4 years) from 10 permanent plots of 1  1 m (each plot had its specific list of excluded species; 10 plots served as control). Since the removed species were all subordinate ones, very little biomass was removed, but at the same time richness was reduced by 25-33%. If some diversity maintenance mechanism was operating, we would expect that immigration of other subordinate species would restore the original species richness. It was not possible to reject the null hypothesis of an identical immigration rate of new species into manipulated and control plots. The rate of small-scale species turnover was not affected by the removal of subordinate species. Interrelations of five richness characteristics were studied, by comparing empirical correlations among them, with those expected from a null model of random migration of species. The immigration rate of new species appeared to be related to the number of constant species, and immigration/extinction balance related to initial richness, more strongly than predicted by the null model. In the manipulated series these relationships matched the expectation from the null model. While the results generally support the so-called species pool hypothesis (and the carousel model), it seems that species small-scale turnover depends on the richness pattern in the studied grassland. In the case of plots with artificially reduced richness no departures can be detected from the random migration hypothesis. 
4179723| Three races of Vicia cracca L. have been found on the territory of Czechoslovakia, two with the chromosome number 2 n = 14 and one with 2 n = 28. Diploid races seem to be more primitive and are less widely distributed. They occur mostly in the primary communities while the tetraploid race is very plastic in the ecological respect and is common both in primary and secondary communities. These races are characterized by some morphological and ecological features. As far as the vertical distribution is concerned, one of the diploid races and the tetraploid occur mostly in the lowland and in the colline zone, the second diploid race has a mountain character. The related tetraploid species Vicia oreophila ertov, with the chromosome number 2n = 28 is distributed at similar altitudes. /// Vicia cracca L. gehrt zu den sehr vernderlichen Arten der Gattung, sie ist durch eine breite kologische Amplitude und ein sehr ausgedehntes Verbreitungsgebiet gekennzeichnet. 1. Die Vernderlichkeit der Art ussert sich vor allem durch die Grsse der Pflanzen, durch die Stengellnge und -zahl, die Lnge der Bltenstandstiele, die Form des Bltanstandes, die Bltenzahl im Bltenstande, die Bltenfarbe und -grsse und die Samenzahl in den Hlsen. Die Merkmale an vegetativen Organen weisen einen Zusammenhang mit den Standortbedingungen auf; in der Kultur waren ihre Werte unbestndig. Die Merkmale aus dem Bereich der Bltenzahl und -farbe erweisen sich als bestndiger und stehen meist in wechselseitiger Korrelation. Zusammenhnge unter anderen Merkmalen gelang es nicht zu ermitteln. Die Mehrheit verschiedener Formen stellt Standortmodifikationen dar, die in der Kultur unbestndig sind. 2. Von den anatomischen Merkmalen war ein Zusammenhang zwischen der Chromosomenzahl einerseits und der Pollenkrnergrsse andererseits aber nicht mit der Spaltffnungsgrsse nachweisbar. Die Form der Epidermiszellen ist  diegleiche. Die Werte dieser Merkmale sind vernderlich, aber die Unterschiede sind nicht allzu charakteristisch. 3. Auf dem Gebiet der Tschechoslowakei wurden drei Rassen von Vicia cracca L. festgestellt. Zwei diploide Rassen (Chromosomezahl 2n = 14), davon eine Tieflands- und eine Gebirgsrasse, erweisen sich als ursprnglicher und kommen vorwiegend an Standorten von natrlichen Charakter vor. Die tetraploide Rasse (Chromosomezahl 2n = 28) erscheint als eine jngere, sehr plastische Rasse, die an unterschiedlichen Standorten von sowohl natrlichen als auch sekundrem Charakter vorkommt. Bei allen drei Rassen kommt eine parallele Variabilitt zum Vorschein; es war nicht mglich, einen absoluten Zusammenhang eines bestimmten Komplexes morphologischer Eigenschaften mit einem bestimmten Zytotyp herauszufinden. Nur bei der Bltenstandlnge, und Bltenzahl und -farbe lsst sich eine vorwiegende Zustndigkeit bestimmter Werte zu einer bestimmten Rasse feststellen - doch auch diese hat weder eine vollstndige noch dauernde Gltigkeit. In der Verbreitung einzelner Rassen tritt eine bestimmte Gesetzmssigkeit zutage. Eine der diploiden Rassen ist vorwiegend im Tiefland und Hgelland, selten auch im unteren Teil der Gebirgsstufe verbreitet; an diese knpft die tetraploide Rasse an, die in Tiefebenen und in kolliner Stufe vorkommt und bis in die Gebirgsstufe hinaufsteigt. Die andere diploide Rasse ist vorwiegend in der Gebirgsstufe verbreitet, seltener steigt sie in die kolliner Stufe hinab, andererseits steigt sie jedoch bis in die subalpine Stufe hinauf. In irgendwelchen Teilen des Staates hat eine hnliche Verbreitung die nahestehende Art Vicia oreophila ertov, die tetraploid ist. Diese Art unterscheidet sich von V. cracca durch einige morphologische Merkmale. Ausser den Populationen mit euploiden Pflanzen wurden in einigen Populationen auch Pflanzen mit aneuploider (hypo- oder hyperploider) Chromosomenzahl sowie eine triploide Pflanze gefunden. Diese Pflanzen kamen an der Grenze zwischen den Hauptvorkommen der diploiden Rassen und der tetraploiden Rasse vor. 
4179766|Methodological recommendations are given for comparative investigations of production by invasion stands of reed (Phragmites communis Trin.). The comparisons are mainly based on estimates of the seasonal maximum shoot biomass and leaf area index. Recommendations for a quantitative morphological characteristic of the Phragmites shoots, and for a description of the habitat, are also given.
4179568| Die Abhandlung fasst die Ergebnisse der Pollen- und Grossrestanalyse aus dem Torflager "Velansk cesta" am sdlichen Rand des Beckens Tebosk pnev (Wittingauer Becken) in Sdbhmen zusammen. Auf Grund dieser Resultate wurde eine Rekonstruktion der Vegetation des Moors selbst und auch der Vegetation seiner Umgebung ab Beginn der Sedimentation in jngerer Dryaszeit bis heute vorgenommen. /// The present paper sums up the results of palaeobotanical investigation of the "Velansk cesta" peat deposit in southern Bohemia (in the Tebo basin). The first sediments in the mire were deposited in a water reservoir during the younger Dryas period. As suggested by results of macroscopic and pollen analyses, the vegetation of the deposit was closely related to the subarctic relic plant community Nupharetum pumili Oberd. 1957. Pollen grains and macroremains of Nuphar pumila, Myriophyllum alterniflorum, Batrachium sp., Potamogeton cf. praelongus, P. cf. natans, P. cf. obtusifolius, and P. cf. gramineus were found in our samples. The edge of the water reservoir was covered with swamp communities in which the following mosses were also copiously represented: Scorpidium scorpioides, Meesia triquetra, Calliergon giganteum, and Tomenthypnum nitens. Between the Pre-boreal and Boreal periods the whole basin was filled in and swamp communities became predominant on the mire. At the beginning of the Atlantic period, these plant communities were replaced by reed-swamp stands. New species, representing a shift towards oligotrophy appeared here as late as the end of the Atlantic period. A further step towards oligotrophy of the deposit took place in the older Sub-atlantic period when the area of the bog was invaded by species of the family Vacciniaceae, by Molinia coerulea, and by Pinus. The vegetation has retained this character up to the present period. In the younger Dryas period the neighbourhood of the deposit was not continuously covered by forest. Pinus, Betula, and Salix were the most numerous trees, with Juniperus and Populus tremula and perhaps even Hippopha rhamnoides, Ulmus, and Alnus also present in the area. Communities of heliophytes were also numerous. In the Pre-boreal period discontinuous pine forests predominated, while birch did not attain much ground here. The other woody plants constituted an insignificant admixture only. In the Boreal period, the pine covers - consisting mostly of pine - were already continuous. Hazel, in contrast to the pattern found elsewhere in Europe, did not attain higher values here in this period. During the Atlantic period the pine covers began to retreat and their place was taken by thermophilous woody plants of the Quercetum mixtum with hazel and partly with spruce. At the end of the period, beech appeared in the area. In the older Sub-atlantic period, spruce and alder predominated in the neighbourhood of the deposit, while in the wider area the forest consisted mostly of oak, elm, lime, and ash, and of hazel in the undergrowth. Beech and fir perhaps never predominated in the vegetation surrounding the deposit. Finds of pollen of the synanthropic herbs suggest that man may already have been present in the area in this period. In the younger Sub-atlantic period, pine again predominated in the forest and Carpinus and Acer appeared here for the first time. Cultivation of soil by man in this period was proved by finds of the pollen of cereals and weeds. Comparison of the results of pollen analyses performed on samples from the "Velansk cesta" mire with those obtained by M. Puchmajerov from the locality of "Hhenbergsk blato" revealed considerable differences. 
4181548| The Seslerio-Caricetum sempervirentis and the Caricetum ferrugineae from the Northern Calcareous Alps show considerable ecological and regional variation. 412 relevs representing both communities were classified by cluster analysis. Several subassociations and variants were distinguished and interpreted principally in terms of ecology and geographical distribution. 
4179547| In Herbarien des Nationalmuseums in Prag wurden Typenbelege zweier im Jahre 1826 von Graf K. Sternberg beschriebenen Rosenarten gefunden; es wurde festgestellt, dass Rosa affinis Sternb. ein Synonym von Rosa pendulina L. und Rosa gentilis Sternb. ein Synonym von Rosa spinosissima L. ist. /// The author found and identified the type-items of two species of roses of the National Museum in Praha described from Istria in 1826 by K. Sternberg. He analyses these items in detail, compares them with Sternberg's descriptions and Borbs' revision, states some discrepancies and inaccuracies and concludes that the hitherto existing taxonomical evaluation of these species is not correct. In his oppinion Rosa affinis Sternb. is a mere synonym of Rosa pendulina L. and Rosa gentilis Sternb. is a synonym of Rosa spinosissima L. 
4179731| Durch Auswertung von fnf Pollendiagrammen der Profile aus dem Jungholozn wurden pollenanalytische Unterlagen fr die Rekonstruktion der ursprnglichen Waldvegetation im mittleren Teil des Otava-Bhmerwaldvorgebirges in Sdbhmen (Tschechoslowakei) gewonnen. Die Gegenberstellung der Ergebnisse der pollenanalytischen Rekonstruktion und der mit geobotanischen Methoden durchgefhrten Rekonstruktion ergab, dass die ursprngliche Vegetation aus Buchen-Tannenwldern mit bedeutender Beimischung von Fichte bestand, am Nordrand des Gebietes aber aus Tannenwldern mit Fichte und mit geringer Beimischung von Buche, und dass es in diesem Gebiet zu der auf Grund der geobotanischen Rekonstruktion vorausgesetzten Gestaltung des azidophilen Eichenwaldes wahrscheinlich nicht gekommen ist. Die Pollenanalysen zeigten ferner, dass das heutige Vorkommen der Anzeiger von azidophilen Eichenwldern und im Gegenteil dazu die vllige Abwesenheit von Indikatoren der anspruchsvolleren Buchentannenbestnde als Sekundrerscheinung betrachtet werden muss, die durch Besiedlung und deren Folgen auf die ursprngliche Vegetation verursacht wurde. /// The paper presents the results of pollen analyses of young Holocene sediments deposited in the central part of the Otava foothills of the umava Mountains in southern Bohemia, Czechoslovakia. The pollen diagrams from Kraselov (PS-5-A), Mladotice (PS-6-A), Nmice (PS-7-A), Vacovice (PS-4-A), Nahoany (PS-3-A) and two other diagrams from Ltn (PS-1-A) and Bohumilice (PS-2-A), published before, are evaluated in order to reconstruct the natural forest vegetation in the area, now, due to man's activity, having a completely changed vegetational cover. According to the pollen analyses the natural climax forests in the area were formed by fir, spruce and beech (the last tree less abundant along the northern border of the area investigated). These mixed forests were similar to the present communities of the all. Fagion Luquet 1926 emend. Pawl. 1928 or Luzulo-Fagion Lohm. et Tx. 1954; fir forests prevailed in the northern part of the area. The representation of more thermophilous plants (group of QM: oak, lime, elm, etc.) was negligible throughout the region; the more numerous occurrence of lime was only local. The existence of acidophilous oak forests, reconstructed in the area by means of phytogeographical and phytosociological methods, cannot be supported by pollen analyses. The expansion of indicators of the all. Quercion robori-sessiliflorae Br.-Bl. 1932 seems to be of secondary origin, resulting from the deforestation of most of the territory after settlement in the 12th century. Intensive human activity also explains the almost complete absence of indicators of the original beech-fir forests. It is almost certain that the borderline between the oak zone and fir-beech zone does not pass through the area. However, it is probable that the northern edge of the area was covered by the transitional fir belt usually occurring between those two zones in Central Europe. The border itself should be situated further northward and northeastward and lies outside the area studied. 
4181372| The occurrence and taxonomy of a little known species Pediastrum orientale (Hydrodictyaceae, Protosiphonales, Chlorophyceae), which was found during the study of subfossil limnic sediments, are evaluated and discussed. This species was found in samples, pollen analyzed since the sixties in the locality varcenberk (southern Bohemia, Czech Republic), but its determination was impossible at that time. In spite of some morphological differences, the population mentioned evidently corresponds with the little known alga described originally as Pediastrum pearsonii var. orientale Skuja 1937 [= Pediastrum orientale (Skuja) Jankovsk et Komrek, comb. nov.]. A more precise description of this species, which should enable its easier identification in pollen slides from limnic sediments, is presented, and further data about its ecology and distribution are summarized. The diacritical features of similar species are compared. The recent distribution of Pediastrum orientale consists of several localities very distant from each other; it seems to be confined to clear and cold (catharobic) water biotopes. The sporopollenin structures on the cell walls are more recognizable in pollen slides than in recent samples of living material. 
4180060| Als Vorarbeit zu einer Flechtenflora der Tschechoslowakei wird der zweite Beitrag vorgelegt, in dem 25 Arten und 2 Gattungen taxonomisch, chorologisch und kologisch behandelt werden; drei Arten (Caloplaca isidiigera, Forssellia umbilicata und Lecanora chalcophila) und eine Gattung (Polysporina) werden als neu beschrieben; eine Emendierung der Gattung Scoliciosporum Massalongo wird durchgefhrt und ein Bestimmungsschlssel der besser bekannten europischen Scoliciosporum-Arten zusammengestellt. Zehn neue Kombinationen werden vorge-schlagen: Huilia musiva (Koerb.) comb. n. var. subsquamescens (Vzda) comb. n., Gyalidea diaphana (Koerb.) comb. n., Polysporina simplex (Dav.) comb. n., P. cyclocarpa (Anzi) comb. n., P. dubia (H. Magn.) comb. n., Scoliciosporum chlorococcum (Stenh.) comb. n., Sc. pruinosum (P. James) comb. n., Sc. sarothamni (Vain.) comb. n. und Sc. schadeanum (Erichs.) comb. n. /// In his second contribution to the lichen flora of Czechoslovakia the author gives some ecological and chorological notes on the finds of 25 new or rare lichen species. Some of the species are also discussed taxonomically and nomenclaturally. A new genus Polysporina is established for the Sarcogyne simplex group and the following new combinations are made: P. simplex (Dav.) comb. n. [= Sarcogyne simplex (Dav.) Nyl.], P. cyclocarpa (Anzi) comb. n. [= S. cyclocarpa (Anzi) Steiner] and P. dubia (H. Magn.) comb. n. (= S. dubia H. Magn.). The genus Scoliciosporum Massal., originally including two different species groups, is emended and lectotypified by Sc. holomelaeum (Flk.) Massal; consequently the following new combinations are proposed: Sc. chlorococcum (Stenh.) comb. n. [= Bacidia chlorococca (Stenh.) Lett.], Sc. pruinosum (P. James) comb. n. [= Bacidia pruinosa P. James], Sc. sarothamni (Vain) comb. n. (= Bacidia sarothamni Vain.) and Sc. schadeanum (Erichs.) comb. n. (= Bacidia schadeana Erichs.) New combinations are also necessary in the genera Huilia Zahlbr. and Gyalidea Lett. ex Vzda: Huilia musiva (Koerb.) comb. n. var. subsquamescens (Vzda) comb. n. [= Haplocarpon musivum (Koerb.) Vzda var. subsquamescens Vzda] and Gyalidea diaphana (Koerb.) comb. n. (= Biatorina diaphana Koerb.). Three new species are stablished: Caloplaca isidiigera sp. n., Forssellia umbilicata sp. n. and Lecanora chalcophila sp. n. 
4181086|Eight new Rubus species are described from the area of Czech Republic (western Czechoslovakia), four of them belonging to ser. Discolores, and one by one to subsect. Rubus, ser. Rhamnifolii, ser. Micantes and ser. Hystrices.
4181266|This paper reviews studies on growth and size-structure dynamics of shoots and clones in clonal plants in comparison with those in non-clonal plants, and discusses the characteristics of clonal plants. The mode of competition between individuals (symmetric versus asymmetric, degree of competitive asymmetry), growth dynamics of individuals, allocation pattern between organs and spatial pattern of individuals are closely correlated with each other in non-clonal plant populations. Theoretical and field studies based on the diffusion model revealed that plants of "height-growth" type (mostly early-successional tree species) and plants of "diameter-growth" type (mostly late-successional tree species) tend to exhibit asymmetric competition and symmetric competition respectively. Moreover, asymmetrically competing plants show smaller effects of variation in individual growth rate and spatial pattern on the size-structure dynamics of the population than symmetrically competing plants. Therefore, the spatial pattern of individuals should be considered especially for plants undergoing symmetric competition. These results for non-clonal plants should have a significant implication also for the growth dynamics and competition in clonal plants. The mean growth rate of shoots [G(t,x) function] and hence the mode of competition between shoots differs among clonal plant species as in non-clonal plants. However, a large magnitude and size-independence (or slightly negative size-dependence) of the variation in growth rate of shoots [D(t,x) function], especially at the early stage in a growing season is a common characteristic of many clonal plant species, in contrast to the positively size-dependent variation in individual growth rate in non-clonal plants. This type of variation in shoot growth rate leads to the persistence of stable shoot populations even when the mean growth rate function is changed, and also in cases where the shoot population structure would be unstable in the absence of variation in growth rate. It is suggested that competition between clones is symmetric in most clonal plant species, which brings about small-scale spatio-temporal changes in species abundance and hence species diversity.
4181348| Fine-scale spatial patterns of native tallgrass prairie vegetation were studied on Konza Prairie, Kansas, USA. Three sites, upland, slope, and lowland, were sampled in an ungrazed watershed. Presence of vascular plant species was recorded in two 25.6 m long transects of contiguous 5  5 cm micro-quadrats on each topographic position. Spatial patterns of species and functional groups were analyzed by information theory models of Juhsz-Nagy. Within-community variability of coexistence was expressed by the diversity and spatial dependence of local species combinations. Considerable diversity in the local coexistence of species was found on each site. Upland and hillside communities were richer and more diverse in species combinations than lowland. Spatial scale effected coexistence relationships. The maxima of information theory estimates varied between 15 and 30 cm. There was no trend in the variation of characteristic scales along the topographical gradient. Above 10 m, all sites tended to be homogeneous. The analysis of spatial associations revealed that variability in the local coexistence of species was strongly constrained in all topographic positions. Overall spatial association of species was the lowest on lowland. The characteristic scales of maximum association were between 1.2 m and 3 m at all sites. The maxima of information theory estimates for the functional group-based data appeared at smaller plot sizes than for the species based analyses. Only weak spatial associations were detected among the functional groups indicating that individuals of functional groups coexist well at small scales, and form combinations close to random expectations. The length of transects did not effect the relative associations. Strong positive correlations were found between the number of components (species or functional groups) and the maxima of information theory models suggesting that richness is a good predictor of within-community coexistence relations. However, there was no relationship between richness and the characteristic scales of community patterns. 
4181207|The following five new foliicolous lichen species are described and illustrated: Bacidina simplex sp. n. (Lecideaceae s. ampl.), Byssoloma absconditum sp. n. and B. confusum sp. n. (Pilocarpaceae), and Macentina pocsii sp. n. (Verrucariaceae s. ampl.), all from Tanzania, and Gyalectidium palmicola sp. n. (Gomphillaceae) from Cuba.
4179633| Die Migration der Pflanzen, die sich in der natrlichen und besonders in der Kulturlandschaft lngs der  stabilen Linien der Wasserlufe (fluminische Migration), Wege, Strassen und Autobahnen (viatische Migration) und Eisenbahnstrecken (ferroviatische Migration) abspielt, wird in der vorgelegten Arbeit als Linienmigration der Pflanzen bezeichnet. Der Autor unterscheidet die kontinuierliche und diskontinuierliche Migration entlang der gegebenen Linie. In engem Zusammenhang mit der diskontinuierlichen Linienmigration der Pflanzen steht die Verbreitung und das Wandern der sog. Siedlungsmigranten, die in dem bestimmten Gebiet und der bestimmten Hhenstufe nur an die Areale der Siedlungen (Drfer, Erholungsorte, Autocampings usw.) gebunden sind. - Die Linienmigration der Pflanzen wird am Beispiel des Baches Studen und der Strasse in seinem Tal (Liptauer Tatra, Westslowakei) demonstriert. /// The recent migration of numerous plant species takes place along the more or less stable lines of water courses, paths, roads and railways. For this type of phyto-migration the comprehensive term "line migration of plants" is introduced here. One can meet the following kinds of line migration: fluminic (along water courses and in their valleys), ferroviatic (along the railways) and viatic (along paths, roads and motorways). The distribution continuity of a species along the studied line can show either continuous or discontinuous migration. In close relation to the line migration of plants is the spreading of so-called settlement migrants, i.e. of those species which in a certain area and at a certain elevation are distributed only within the limits of settlements. Many apophytic, deuterophytic and some neophytic species are settlement migrants. The placing of a species among the settlement migrants is relative - it is bound always to a certain territory and elevation. Numerous species counted among strict settlement migrants in the mountain and subalpine zones are commonly distributed in the lowlands. The line migration of plants has been analysed on concrete example, viz. on the river Studen potok and on the road following its valley. The lines of distribution have been drawn into the horizontal projection of the longitudinal profile of the water course and of the road. The distribution continuity of individual species depends to a high degree on the distribution continuity of ecotopes convenient to their ecological demands as well as on the way the diaspores of the respective plant species are spread. 
4181468|Apomixis and hybridization together contribute to taxonomic complexity in Amelanchier. Hybridization combines genetically divergent genomes and spawns new forms that apomixis perpetuates. Apomixis is aposporous, facultative, and pseudogamous in the genus, and apomicts are generally polyploid, pollen fertile, and pollinated by generalists. That gene flow actually occurs is empirically evident. As apomixis is genetically dominant over sexuality, hybrids involving at least one apomictic parent are apomictic. Clonal reproduction may thus perpetuate F
4181010|This paper presents the results from research of a few macrophyte communities and their dominant stands in the Kiev Reservoir (Ukraine). Largely concentrated on the methodological aspects of biomass sampling in macrophyte communities.
4180282|Seed germination studies of a number of Indian arid zone species were conducted and the seeds were classified into four groups on the basis of germination behaviour. Results of seed germination were also compared with those of old seed collections. Most of the seeds studied showed some form of dormancy, the hard seed coatedness being the most common. In Borreria articularis, germination inhibitors were found. Seeds of different years required different duration of acid scarification for maximum germination and these differences have been attributed to rainfall and other such environmental conditions in those years.
4181467|Aspects of reproductive ecology have been studied in two species of Potentilla (Rosaceae) from interior Alaska. Data were collected to determine mating system traits such as seed: ovule and pollen: ovule ratios, and experiments were carried out in the field in order to study the effect of caging, emasculation, and manual self-pollination on seed set and seed quality. Mating system strategies differ between the two species in the populations examined. High pollen: ovule ratio, high seed: ovule ratio, good autodeposition ability, and unpredictable pollination in concert with self-incompatibility indicate that P. hookeriana in the population studied has adopted a more or less pseudogamous mating system. In contrast, the data suggest that P. uniflora in the studied population is approaching a sexual, facultatively outbreeding species. Because both species exhibit ploidy variation, a trait common among agamospermous plants, it is concluded that both species are likely to be facultatively agamospermous but that sexual reproduction is much more important in the population of P. uniflora than it is in P. hookeriana.
4180036| Eine kritische Wertung von Arbeiten, die sich auf die Artkreuzung von Anagallis arvensis L. (einschliesslich der farbigen Formen) und A. foemina Mill. (= Anagallis  doerfleri Ronn.) beziehen, wurde durchgefhrt. Diese Wertung beruht auf eigener fnfjhriger experimenteller Arbeit der Autorin im Botanischen Garten der Karls-Universitt zu Prag und auf dem Studium der betreffenden Taxa in der Natur und in Herbarien. Sie verfolgte eine Reihe von Merkmalen sowohl in statisch morphologischer, als auch in quantitativer Hinsicht. Mittels des Studiums der Meiosis ermittelte sie Ursachen der niedrigen Fertilitt der Hybride. Die Autorin gewann einen knstlichen Hybridenschwarm und verzeichnete Andeutungen einer Introgression an einigen Pflanzen von natrlichen Lokalitten. Auf Grund der obangefhrten Ergebnisse und im Zusammenhang mit ihnen wurde der Versuch unternommen, die Genese der Sektion Anagallis zu ergrnden. /// 1. A list of localities of the spontaneous hybrid Anagallis  doerfleri Ronn. both from Czechoslovakia and from abroad is given, based on the materials at the author's disposal. 2. The following features are diacritical for the hybrid: the cotyledon shape, the shape of the leaves of the first pair, the petal margin, the shape of glands on the petals and the crown colour. These features are of an intermediary character. 3. The author noticed a congruence between spontaneous and natural hybrids of A.  doerfleri. 4. In the hybrid A.  doerfleri the author ascertained the intermediarity of some quantitative features (e.g. the seed lenght and width, the blade top angle in the cotyledon tip, the length and width of leaves of the first pair, the width of the other leaves, the number of glands on the crown petals, the number of anthocyan spots on the back of the leaves); and the heterosis of others (e.g. leaf length, fruit peduncle length, flower width, the length and width of stomata, anther length). In the case of the length and width of cotyledons, both intermediarity and heterosis are involved. 5. Conspicuous manifestations of heterosis were also noted during the ontogenesis of the hybrid. 6. A congruence between the hybrid A.  doerfleri and artificial hybrids of other combinations of A. arvensis L. f. arvensis and A. foemina Mill. was found. The difference between these hybrids consists in flower colour only. 7. By studying the meiosis course and the pollen viability of the hybrid A.  doerfleri and of its parental species the author found the cause of the low fertility of the hybrid. 8. The author succeeded in growing an artificial hybrid swarm, the composition of which was: F
4181178|In 74 natural populations of the Myosotis palustris and M. laxa groups from former Czechoslovakia three euploid and one aneuploid cytotypes were found that belong to the following species: M. nemorosa Besser, 2n = 22, M. palustris (L.) Nath. em. Reichenb. in Sturm, 2n = 66, M. laxiflora Reichenb., 2n = 66, M. radicans Opiz, 2n = 66(64), M. brevisetacea (Schuster) Holub, 2n = 66(64), and M. caespitosa C.F. Schultz, 2n = 88. With the exception of M. nemorosa, the chromosome numbers are published for the first time for the Czech Republic. The chromosome numbers, 2n = 66, 2n = 64 are found in M. brevisetacea, are new for the literature. The correlation between pollen size and ploidy level has been studied as well, and statistically significant differences were found between cytotypes belonging to different ploidy levels.
4179660|Based upon the studies of behaviour of a rather large number of adventitious plant species in Czechoslovakia, three types of hemerochorous dispersal have been distinguished, according to the number and frequency of different ways of introduction, (i.e. introductions with various kinds of transported goods): the monohemerochorous, oligohemerochorous, and polyhemerochorous species. These terms have been proposed as new.
4181463|DNA fingerprinting has proved useful for the analysis of genotypic distribution and estimation of genetic relatedness in apomictic plant groups like Rubus, Amelanchier, Hieracium and Taraxacum. Speciation through interspecific hybridization has been demonstrated in one case involving apomictic Rubus species. The application of molecular markers to progeny derived from experimental cross-pollinations has yielded information on levels of apomixis as well as on its inheritance and regulation in e.g. Rubus, Poa, Pennisetum and Tripsacum.
4181367|We draw attention to a number of syntaxon names which are invalidly published according to Article 3f of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, and give the valid names for the corresponding syntaxa, ranging in rank from subassociation to alliance. A modification of the wording of Art. 3f is proposed, with the aim of clarifying its interpretation and application, as well as the deletion of the reference to Art. 3f in the second sentence of Art. 6.
4180911|Calamagrostis villosa stands occurring in areas deforested by air-pollution impact in the Moravian-Silesian Beskydy Mountains were characterized by a high dry mass of total underground biomass (
4179576|The author gives a survey of the sea-shore plant communities of Reykjanes peninsula. In all, 5 associations were found, belonging to the alliances Puccinellion maritimae, Atriplicion litoralis and Honckenyo-Elymion arenarii.
4180529| During the palaeobotanical investigation of the Spisk kotlina Basin and the neighbouring areas, seeds of Pinus cembra L. were found in limonitized concretions and peat sediment of the Sivra mire situated near the village of Vyn Rubachy (east of the High Tatra). The presence of this tree species was also confirmed by pollen analysis. It is the first find of fossil seeds dating from the Late glacial in Czechoslovakia. 
4179857|The following chromosome numbers are reported: Erysimum durum J. et C. Presl: 2n = 48; Erysimum hieraciifolium L.: 2n = 32; Chenopodium album L. from three localities in Brno: 2n = 54.
4181302|Using results from a long-term study of fine-scale dynamics in grasslands in four widely separated study areas from two continents, we provide further evidence to support the idea of the carousel model as an aid to describe the high fine-scale temporal and spatial species mobility found in grassland communities. Cumulative species numbers on small subplots in plots situated in stable plant communities, determined as the sum of species appearing in these subplots in one or more years over a period of time, are very high. In floristically different species-rich grasslands, varying from moist pine savannas in North Carolina and Mississippi, to humid chalk grassland in the Netherlands and seasonally dry limestone grassland in Sweden, average species numbers on subplots of 0.01 m
4180260| The difference and/or similarity of both approaches, the one of Soava and the one of Braun-Blanquet, and the reciprocal transferability of the units of cartography is tested using the mapped vegetation of the Siberian steppe as an example. 
4179529| Die Auswertung des umfassenden Materials der Weidegesellschaften Europas ergab, dass der Cynosurion-Verband eine eigene Stellung einnimmt. Syngenetisch, synoekologisch und floristisch ist er klar differenziert, obgleich er sich von anderen verwandten und Kontaktverbnden vorwiegend negativ unterscheidet, d. h. durch das Fehlen der Charakterarten dieser Verbnde. Die bisher bekannten Gesellschaften aus verschiedenen Gebieten Europas knnen als mehrere Gebietsassoziationen dieses Verbandes klassifiziert werden, und zwar innerhalb zweier Assoziationsgruppen Fett-(Tieflands-) und Mager-(Gebirgs-) Gesellschaften. In den Westkarpaten schiebt sich als Verbindungsglied zwischen diese beiden Gruppen von Weidegesellschaften das Lolio-Cynosuretum alchemilletosum, das durch trophische und biotische Faktoren bedingt ist. Im Bereich des humiden Klimas erstreckt sich an der Nordseite der Karpaten die Assoziation Festuco-Cynosuretum, weit stlich vom Zentrum ihres westeuropischen Areals. Aus dem Untersuchungsgebiet werden von oekologischen, syntaxonomischen und wirtschaftlichen Gesichtspunkten aus die Gesellschaften der Talweiden, das Lolio-Cynosuretum Tx. 37, Trifolio-Lolietum Krippelov 67, sowie die Bergweiden, das Anthoxantho-Agrostietum typicum Sill. 33 emend. Jurko beschrieben. /// Pasture communities are very important in the agricultural structure of Slovakia. So far, however, they have been insufficiently studied and are little-known in European phytocoenological literature. In this paper the author attempts to give a phytocoenological picture of pastures belonging to the alliance Cynosurion from the Strov mountains in north-west Slovakia where these associations form a major constituent of the grassland vegetation. Because much information concerning these communities has accumulated in Europe over a considerable number of years new problems have arisen concerning the position of individual pasture communities with regard to their syntaxonomy within the framework of the Zurich-Montpellier School. The author deals mainly with some of these questions in relation to the western Carpathians. Although the alliance Cynosurion has relatively few positive and diagnostically strong characteristic species the communities of this alliance from the Carpathians differ markedly in their floristic composition as a result of grazing in the course of land management practices. The alliance Cynosurion, incorporating pasture and grazed grass after cutting, is characterised in negative way by the absence of some of the characteristic species of related and contact alliances - Arrhenatherion, Polygonion avicularis, Mesobromion, Triseto-Polygonion, Violo-Nardion, Poion alpinae, etc. The specific syngenetical and synecological conditions, as well as the floristic composition of these communities, enables them to be differentiated clearly from each other and from the communities of other alliances, among which they occupy a central position (see fig. 1 on page 104). On the basis of well-established phytocoenological evidence it can be stated that these associations are spreading over most of Europe as a substitute community of deciduous summer forest in different climatic and plant geographical regions. Classification of the constituent communities is possible at the level of regional associations and, consequently, for these mesophilous to moderately xerophilous pastures it is not necessary to create new and higher syntaxonomic units. In the following section a review is presented of previously published regional associations and lower syntaxonomic units from different parts of Europe. After re-evaluation of communities of the alliance Cynosurion from the Carpathian region, a new local associations, typical of the broader region of the Carpathian bow are suggested. It has been shown that owing to the lack of phytocoenological material from transitional areas it has not been possible to determine precisely the extent of the boundary between the west European association, Festuco-Cynosuretum Tx. 1940 apud Bk. 1942 and the west Carpathian association of Anthoxantho-Agrostietum Sillinger 1933 emend. Jurko. On the northern side of the Carpathian massif with its more humid oceanic-Baltic climate, Festuco-Cynosuretum projects across the Carpathian slopes far to the east. The community mentioned by Ralski (1930 and 1931) is identified as a new sub-association, Festuco-Cynosuretum nardetosum, with differential species Nardus stricta, Alchemilla vulgaris, Hypericum maculatum, Stellaria graminea, Gnaphalium silvaticum, Veronica officinalis, etc. Between lowland and mountain pastures in the western Carpathians transitional types arise conditioned by different habitat conditions and by agricultural practices. From analysis of more than 400 relevs (Tab. 1) it has been shown that between the fertile alluvial pastures (Lolio-Cynosuretum) and the extensive ones on the slopes (Anthoxantho-Agrostietum and Festuco-Cynosuretum) a transition type of pasture arises, which may be classified, contrary to the opinions of Grodziska and Zarzycki (1965) as the sub-association Lolio-Cynosuretum alchemilletosum Grodz. and Zarz. 1965 emend. Jurko. The extensive and fertile pastures of the more continental areas of the Rumanian and Slovakian Carpathians which are intensively farmed can be differentiated from each other more easily than those in the west. Valley pastures in the Strov mountains belong to two associations. Association Lolio-Cynosuretum Tx. 1937 spreads on the Vh alluvium and its tributary rivers. By its composition it is generally mesophilous except in the Vh valley where, as a result of hydrological practices causing a drop in the ground-water level, the soil dries out and the vegetation degrades. Sub-association Lolio-Cynosuretum alchemilletosum occurs in mountain localities only, especialy on slopes which are intensively fertilised. The second association, Trifolio-Lolietum Krippelov 1967 lies within the study area on the northern boundary of its Pannonian extension. This is a more xerophilous community and occurs on the drier sandy soils of the Vh alluvium. It differs synecologically and floristicaly from the more typical association, but since its extent is less well known, it is provisionally regarded as a different variant only. Both types of community are documented in table 3 together with groups of differential species. A short comparison with other relevant data from the literature is also included. The mountain pastures belonging to the association Anthoxantho-Agrostietum typicum are very widespread. Floristically they are richer, are more homogeneous and can be distinguished from the previous associations by the differential species indicated in table 4, group a + b. They occur on both calcareous and siliceous soils and these differ from each other only in the form of variants. The boundary with communities of the alliance Mesobromion is sharp. On very oligotrophic soils transitions to the sub-association Anthoxantho-Agrostietum nardetosum and types rich in Sieglingia decumbens and Genista pilosa occur. Finally, in table 5 all results concerning the analyses of the feeding values of individual communities are summarised. 
4180812|The present work was carried out at four waterbodies in the Estonian SSR where seven different habitats of Phragmites australis were selected. The paper gives the results of the study of clones from essentially different sites: the characteristics of the habitat of the species (soil profile, soil analyses, pH of water), morphological features of shoots, the nutrient content in plant parts, the production of clones, and also relations between these characteristics.
4181474|To test whether obligate apomicts can generate genetic variability, the only valid procedure is to investigate heritable variation amongst the offspring of fully agamospermous mothers. Among plants, most reports have been for Taraxacum, and this review concentrates on this genus, although there are many analogous reports for animals. In Taraxacum, within-family variation is commonly found at the levels of ploidy, aneuploidy, recombination and single gene mutation. Faulty disjunction, somatic recombination due to transposon activity, and mutation are all implicated. Although such asexual variation should generate evolutionary change, and there is clear evidence that this has occurred, evolutionary patterns will differ fundamentally from those of outcrossing sexuals. As asexual matrilineal lines cannot shed or disseminate mutational loads, three dimensional relationships are dichotomously dendroid rather than reticulate.
4179421| Lotus uliginosus Schkuhr und L. pedunculatus Cav. sind zwei nahe verwandte Arten, die sich durch einige Merkmale unterscheiden, vor allem durch die Form und Farbe der Blttchen, durch die Form des Kelches und der Krone und durch einige quantitative Merkmale (Grsse der Blttchen, Anzahl der Blten im Bltenstand). Eine weitere Art aus diesem Bereich ist L. granadensis sp. nova, die sich von den beiden vorher genannten Arten hauptschlich durch rundliche Blttchen und hellgrne Farbe unterscheidet. Die Arten unterscheiden sich auch in ihrer Verbreitung. /// Lotus uliginosus Schkuhr and L. pedunculatus Cav. proved to be two related species, which differed in some morphological characters, particularly in the shape of the leaflets and the shape of the calyx and corolla, and further in some quantitative characters shown in the table. L. granadensis is a species closely related to L. pedunculatus. It is characterized by round leaflets and bright green colour. L. uliginosus Schkuhr is an European species with subatlantic areal character. It is distributed throughout the greater part of Europe and in North-West Africa. L. pedunculatus Cav. is a west-Mediterranean endemic species with areal limited to East and South Spain. Habitation of the species in Africa is probable. The features of L. granadensis are similar; it is preliminarily known only from South Spain and North-West Africa. 
4179531|The authors give the known distribution of Bidens pilosa L. in Cuba, discuss some features of its ecology, its diaspore production, and enumerate its parasites known in Cuba.
4179698| The paper summarizes all accepted species and subspecies of the genera Petasites and Endocellion, together with important synonyms, type quotations, main diacritical characters, and an outline of their distribution. The new taxa described in this study are as follows: subgen. Capillopetalum, sect. Cricostigma, sect. Schistostigma, sect. Trichostigma, sect. Sceptrostigma, further ser. Japonici, ser. Orientales, ser. Fragrantes, ser. Spurii, ser. Imberbes, ser. Sagittati, and subspecies Petasites frigidus subsp. sibiricus. New combinations: Petasites radiatus (J. F. Gmel.), P. rubellus (J. F. Gmel.) P. hybridus subsp. georgicus (Manden.), P. nivalis subsp. vitifolius (L. E. Greene), P. nivalis subsp. hyperboreus (Rydb.), P. palmatus subsp. speciosus (Nutt.), Endocellion sibiricum (J. F. Gmel.) and E. glaciale (Ledeb.). /// Die vorliegende Arbeit stellt eine monographische bersicht von Taxa der Gattungen Petasites und Endocellion mit einem Hybridenverzeichnis dar. Die bersicht enthlt zugleich Zitationen von Typen (die mancherorts von neuem gebildet worden sind), die wichtigsten Synonyma, die diagnostischen Merkmale von supraspezifischen Taxa, Arten und Unterarten; die Verbreitung der Taxa wird nur im Umriss angegeben. Die Gliederung der Gattung Petasites beruht auf den morphologischen (teilweise auch auf den chemotaxonomischen) Unterschieden und auf der Phylogenese der untersuchten Taxa. Als Ergebnis dieser Untersuchungen sind einige neue Taxa in den Kategorien von Sektion und Serie sowie eine neue Untergattung Capillopetalum (mit zwei ostasiatischen Arten, Petasites tricholobus und P. versipilus, die durch ihre  bilabiaten, naarfrmig geteilten Kronen der weiblichen Blten charakteristisch sind) gebildet worden. Das Taxon Nardosmia mit zungenartigen Kronen nur bei weiblichen Blten, das hufig als selbstndige Gattung abgetrennt wird, ist in die Gattung Petasites als Untergattung eingereiht worden. Andererseits wurde die sibirische Gattung Endocellion mit zwei Arten abgetrennt, die - ausser anderen Merkmalen - durch einkpfige Stengel, Bltter ohne Ausschnitt an der Blatt-spreitenbasis, fadenfrmige Wurzelstcke und unterschiedliche Chromosomenverhltnisse charakteristisch ist. Gleichzeitig wurden neue supraspezifische und subspezifische Namen entworfen. Der Arbeit ist eine Anzahl von Abbildungen beigefgt, durch die die Ergebnisse des Studiums vom Herbar-material und von lebenden Pflanzen dokumentiert werden. 
4181048| Some taxonomic and nomenclatural problems within Lycopodiales are discussed. In Huperzia Bernh. three subgenera have been distinguished, one of them described as a new one. With regard to a separate position of Lycopodium sect. Magellanica B. llgaard, a new genus Austrolycopodium Holub was proposed, comprising eight species mostly from the Southern Hemisphere. An analysis of the validity of the generic name Diphasium C. Presl 1845 was carried out with an affirmative result. Six names for infrageneric taxa of Huperzia and 44 new combinations for species have been proposed; in addition to those of Austrolycopodium (8) they refer mainly to Huperzia (22) and Palhinhaea (9). 
4180373|The mass ratio of live to dead roots (L/D root ratio) in grassland stands treated with cutting, mineral fertilization and recultivation varied between 0.48 and 4.19. The highest values of this ratio, i.e., a substantially higher amount of live roots, were found in unfertilized experimental stands. The application of mineral fertilizers resulted in a decrease in the L/D ratio, above all in recultivated stands. The differences in the biomass of live roots between natural and recultivated stands, both fertilized with
4180689| Throughout the growth season of 1976 the seasonal changes relating to phenology and height of every shoot as well as to density and above-ground biomass in the harvesting areas were investigated at two monospecific stands of Bolboschoenus maritimus. /// Vom Greifswalder Bodden, einem vergleichsweise seichten Gewsser an der Ostseekste der DDR zwischen der Insel Rgen und dem Festland, wurden zwei Reinbestnde von Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla untersucht. Whrend einer Vegetationsperiode wurden 14tgig die oberirdische Biomasse von 1 m
4181030| 47 names and combinations are published as new, chiefly from the elaboration of Alchemilla by A. Plocek in L. Bertov (ed.), Flra Slovenska 4/3, Bratislava (in press). The populations recognized as varieties and species new to science (12 and 29, respectively) come from the summits of W. Beskids (9 taxa), Belianske Tatry (12), other parts of Tatra (8), Fatra (5), elsewhere in the Central Carpathians in Slovakia (4), the Low Beskids in E. Slovakia (1), W. and E. Carpathians (1), N. Moravia (1). In addition, three epithets are published in a new combination, and the names for two new subseries and a new forma are proposed. 
4181475|Modes of evolution of species classified within different sections in Taraxacum involve diverse processes, viz. primary divergence of an ancestral sexual diploid, hybridization between a tetraploid apomict and a diploid sexual hybrid, differentiation of an advanced apomictic taxon at one ploidy level, hybridization between a sexual tetraploid and a sexual diploid, formation of a polyploid series from an apomictic ancestor of a lower polyploidy level, and remote hybridization between an autumn-flowering ancestral diploid and a spring-flowering derivative diploid or apomict. Various reproduction systems of the plants involved, different environments and different timing of the processes contribute to a very varied nature of the species groups.
4180200| Diagnoses of three corticolous species of Discolichenes from Hawaii are presented: Bacidia violascens K. Kalb et Vzda sp. n., Dimerella degeneri K. Kalb et Vzda sp. n. and D. frederici K. Kalb sp. n. The isotypes will be distributed in fasc. No. 70 of the "Lichenes selecti exsiccati" (issued by the Botanical Institute, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, Pruhonice near Praha). 
4180793| Dynamics of bryophytes were followed in a chalk grassland in 4 plots, 2525 cm, each subdivided in to 400 subplots, in which every 3-4 months the presence of all bryophyte species was recorded. During the first 14 months no successional trends were visible. However, dynamics on the scale of one subplot were considerable. Degree of dynamics was markedly negatively correlated with original presence in the plots. Several explanations for this correlation are discussed. 
4179442| The following genera are redefined: Albatrellus S. F. Gray, Heterobasidion Bref., Haploporus Bond. et Sing. ex Sing., Fomitopsis P. Karst. and Rigidoporus Murrill; two new subgenera are described: Polyporus subgen. Dendropolyporus Pouz. (type: Polyporus umbellatus) and Rigidoporus subgen. Neooxyporus Pouz. (type: Polyporus latemarginatus); the genus Oxyporus (Bourd. et Galz.) Donk is classified as a subgenus of the genus Rigidoporus Murrill and the genera Bjerkandera P. Karst. and Leptoporus Qul. are classified as subgenera of the genus Tyromyces P. Karst. The new subfamily Albatrelloideae Pouz. (genera: Albatrellus and Grifola) is described and 14 new specific combinations are made. The new genus Irpicodon Pouz. (type: Irpex pendulus) is proposed. /// Abtopp        (Albatrellus S. F. Gray, Heterobasidion Bref., Haploporus Bond. et Sing in Sing., Fomitopsis P. Karst.  Rigidoporus Murrill), ,  ,    ( ,  ).        Albatrellus          .   Heterobasidion         ,   Haploporus  Fomitopsis   .  Rigidoporus    Oxyporus,     .  Rigidoporus latemarginatus (Dur. et Mont.) Pouz. (= Poria ambigua Bres.)     Neooxyprous Pouz.  Polyporus umbellatus (Pers.) ex Fr.    Grifola S. F. Gray   Polyporus Mich.         .   Polyporus     Dendropolyporus Pouz.   .  Bjerkandera (P. Karst.) Pouz. (  )     Tyromyces P. Karst.,  Albatrellus  Grifola    Albatrelloideae.   Albatrellus, Rigidoporus  Tyromyces     14 .     Irpicodon Pouz.    Irpicodon pendulus (Fr. ex Fr.) Pouz. 
4181133| Chromosome numbers are reported for 26 collections representing 12 Mongolian Potentilla taxa. The first chromosome records are reported for P. [] agrimonioides Bieb. (2n = 42, 49-50), P. [] chionea Sojk (2n = 64, 74+1B, 84-86, 86), P. [] stepposa Sojk (2n = 62) and P. supina L. subsp. costata Sojk (2n = 42). Tetraploid and pentaploid populations of P. sericea L. (2n = 28, 34, 35) and hexaploid populations of P. ornithopoda Tausch (2n = 42) were found in Mongolia. Chromosome numbers of the following species were confirmed: P. longifolia Willd. ex Schlecht. (2n = 14), P. multifida L. (2n = 28), P. sanguisorba Willd. ex Schlecht. (2n = 28), P. sericea L. (2n = 42), P. supina L. subsp. paradoxa (Nutt.) Sojk (2n = 28, China) and P. tanacetifolia Willd. ex Schlecht. (2n = 28). Taxonomic observations are briefly discussed. 
4180212| The vegetation of the new Rozko reservoir near esk Skalice, East Bohemia, Czechoslovakia, was studied in the period of filling and during the following five years. It was rather unstable and showed pronounced dynamics particularly in hydrophytes. The trends of vegetation development seem to be common for most new shallow reservoirs in Central Europe and the northern part of East Europe. A number of submerged macrophytes grew at unusual depths and their production was very high in newly filled reservoirs. The survival of trees and herbs and their reaction to long-term flooding (adventitious root formation) are discussed in the paper as well as the vegetation development of both permanently and periodically emerged shores. 
25130305|The pine forest with an undergrowth of fruticose lichens - Cladonio rangiferinae-Pinetum sylvestris (Kobenza 1930) em. Passarge 1956 from the protected landscape area Kivokltsko in Central Bohemia is described. The Cladonio-Pinetum comprises a permanent pine forest community occurring naturally on a hard base and nutrient deficient siliceous rocks in the semiconvex parts of the steep slopes of narrow side-valleys of the Berounka river. The soil type of this community is dystrophic ranker. The phytosociological composition of the Cladonio-Pinetum is documented by the table of relevs, the habitat by chemical analyses of the soil. /// Aus dem Landschaftsschutzgebiet Kivokltsko in Mittelbhmen wird der natrliche Flechten-Kiefernwald - das Cladonio rangiferinae-Pinetum sylvestris Kobenza 1930 em. Passarge 1956 - beschrieben, das in das Cladonio-Pinion Passarge and Hofmann 1968 bzw. in den breit gefassten Verband Dicrano-Pinion Matuszkiewicz 1962 angeordnet werden kann. Diese Assoziation ist aus der Tschechischen Republik bisher nicht bekannt geworden. Sie stellt eine edaphisch und lokalklimatisch bedingte Dauergesellschaft dar, die auf Sonderstandorten der Nebentler der Berounka im nordwestlichen Teil des Untersuchungsgebietes vorkommt. Ihre Bestnde sind an mineralarme dysgeogene Gesteine (Quarzitschiefer, Palorhyolith) mit wenig entwickelten, rankerartigen Bden (dystropher Ranker) gebunden und stocken von Natur aus rtlich und kleinflchig auf Hagerhngen und luvseitigen Hangrndern. Die phytoznologische Zusammensetzung sowie die kologischen Bedingungen des Cladonio-Pinetum werden angegeben und durch die Aufnahmetabelle und die Analysenergebnisse von Bodenuntersuchungen belegt. Den kologischen Unterschieden entsprechend kommen in dem Untersuchungsgebiet zwei Ausbildungen des Cladonio-Pinetum vor. Die artenreichere Tannen-Ausbildung ist fr die luftfeuchten Oberhangstandorte der eingeschnittenen, nebelreichen Inversionstler (z. B. der Bachtler Javornice, Tytersk und Slabeck potok) bezeichnend, whrend die krautarme astmoos-freie Flechten-Ausbildung an die ausgehagerten Felsenrcken in breiteren Teilen des Tales des Zbirosk potok gebunden ist. In der Bodenschicht der Tannen-Ausbildung kommen zerstreut subatlantische Arten, wie Dicranum spurium und Cladonia portentosa, vor. Die Lokalitt von Cladonia portentosa wird als neu fr dieses Gebiet festgestellt (s. Pit 1982).
4179578| The present paper gives an account of the archaeobotanical results of charcoal investigations from the lower valley of the river Ohe (Bohemia). According to the analysis the primal vegetation may be the alliance Carpinion betuli. 
4180862| A profile of a carbonate fen sediment coming from the vicinity of the village Hozelec (3 km SE of Poprad - High Tatra, in the Poprad Basin) was elaborated using pollen analysis. The Late Glacial and Early Holocene Periods were recorded in detail. Due to low pollen frequency and damaged pollen grains, the vegetation development in the Middle and Late Holocene Periods was recorded only in fragments. The estimated age of the samples, i.e. Allerd, Pre-Boreal/Boreal and Boreal/Atlantic Period, was supported by radiocarbon (C-14) dating. The results represent an objective proof of the reafforestation of the area under study by stands of Larix, Pinus cembra and P. sylvestris, at the end of the last Glacial Period as early as Older Dryas (Early Weichselian). The maximum development of the Larix stands took place in Allerd. The early emergence of Picea between the Younger Dryas (Late Weichselian) and Pre-Boreal Periods points to the existence of glacial refugia of this tree in the neighbourhood. Finds of the conches of molluscs were also determined. A survey of the results of pollen analyses from other pollenanalytically and macroscopically elaborated localities in the north-western part of the Carpathians is presented. 
4180239| The first part of the study gives a survey and brief phytocenological evaluation of the grassland stands in the environs of the village Chvaletice and of the town Pelou in the southeastern part of the Labe lowlands (central and eastern Bohemia, Czechoslovakia). On the basis of the relev materials acquired in 1974, 18 associations with their subordinate units were characterized by means of the method of the Zrich-Montpellier school. For the first time a record is published of the association Holcetum lanati Gams 1927 from Czechoslovakia. The following new syntaxa are described: Holcetum lanati cirsietosum cani, Holcetum lanati arrhenatheretosum elatioris, Cerastio arvensi-Festucetum trachyphyllae, Cerastio arvensi-Festucetum trachyphyllae trifolietosum pratensis, and Cerastio arvensi-Festucetum trachyphyllae armerietosum elongatae. 
4180455|Up till now 22 plant associations of springs and mountain brooks are known in Czechoslovakia. They can be arranged in 6 alliances: Cardaminion amarae, Cardamino-Montion, Swertio-Anisothecion squarrosi, Cratoneuro filicini-Calthion laetae, Cratoneurion commutati and Lycopo-Cratoneurion. Three alliances, two associations and one subassociation are described as new ones, three associations are renamed.
4181058|A demographic study of post-fire revegetation in a clonal shrub Lycium barbarum is presented. Spontaneous development of the sprout population was estimated using both nondestructive and destructive methods and compared to the data from experimentally thinned plots. Relationships between growth parameters (height, biomass, leaf area) and their changes in the course of development are analysed. Description of the seasonal dynamics of the sprout population is given. Intraclonal competition among individual sprouts was observed. Results of the growth analysis are presented for populations of different age.
4180085|Phragmites communis Trin., a highly polymorphous and widely spread species has been described by several authors by the series of polyploidy ranging from triploid to octoploid forms (2n = 36 to 96). The original spontaneous diploid form was not known. The present communication describes the experimental transplantation of a dwarf saline form into freshwater substrate conditions, including a new and extremely changed habitus of a sterile plant, the chromosome number of which has been determined as 2n = 24.
4180482|Three new genera are described: Drymochloa (aff. Festuca), Eriophorella (aff. Eriophorum and Baeothryon), Poenosedum (aff. Sedum). Four new nomenclatural combinations are proposed for their species.
4179447| 22 species or forms of flagellates, observed in nature in Czechoslovakia and Poland, are pictured and described in the present paper. They belong to four classes: Chrysophyceae (2), Chlorophyceae (1), Cryptophyceae (9), and Dinophyceae (10). They were nearly all identified with the existing taxa; some names are suggested as synonyms, some new nomenclature combinations are put forward. One new species, Chilomonas bacillaris sp. n., has been established. /// Chrysophyceae. Die Art Pseudopedinella elastica Skuja wurde in Polen gefunden. Da zwischen den Gattungen Pedinella Vysocki und Pseudopedinella N. Carter keiner deutlicher Unterschied besteht, wird vorgeschlagen nur eine einzige Gattung, u.zw. Pedinella Vysocki, anzuerkennen; die diesbezglichen nomenklatorischen Kombinationen wurden durchgefhrt. Die Zoosporen von Phaeaster vesiculiferus (Skuja)Bourr. wurden in zwei Torfmooren in Bhmen studiert. Chlorophyceae. Die aus der Tschechoslowakei beschriebene Art Platymonas bichlora H. Ettl et O. Ettl, wurde auf zwei bhmischen Lokalitten neuerdings gefunden. Cryptophyceae. Bei der Gattung Chilomonas Ehrenb. wurden zwei neue Kombinationen vorgeschlagen: C. oblonga Pascher f. minor (Czosn.) c.n. und C. insignis (Skuja) c.n. Es wird eine neue Art C. bacillaris sp. n. beschrieben; sie ist mit der Art C. oblonga Pascher verwandt, unterscheidet sich jedoch von derselben durch die zylindrishce Form der Zelle und durch noch kleinere Dimensionen als die der C. oblonga f. minor. Weiters wurde die Art Cryptochrysis pochmannii Huber-Pest. determiniert; als diakritische Merkmale fr diese Art wurde die Nichtanwesenheit des rechten Schalenpyrenoids und dagegen die Anwesenheit des Maupaskrpers angesehen. Fr den gewhnlichen, unter einige Namen bekannten kleinen Flagellaten, wird die nomenklatorische Kombination Rhodomonas pusilla (Bachmann) c.n. vorgeschlagen. Zwei neue beachtenswerte Funde von Arten der Gattung Cryptomonas Ehrenb. werden angefhrt, u.zw. C. obovata Skuja und C. lobata Kor. Weiter wird vorgeschlagen die Art C. procera Schiller nur als eine Form der Art C. pyrenoidifera Geitler zu betrachten. Die gewhnliche, sehr variable Cryptomonas-Art wurde, nach der bereits vergessenen Beschreibung, mit der Art C. cylindrica Ehrenb. identifiziert. Dinophyceae. Sechs Artennamen der Gattung Amphidinium Clap. et Lachm. werden als Synonyma der Art A. larvale Lindem. angesehen. Diese variable Art kommt gewhnlich als farblose, selten auch als autotrophe Form vor. Gymnodinium triceratium Skuja wurde auf einer Lokalitt in Bhmen studiert. Die aus einem Aquarium beschriebene Art G. lantzschii Uterm. var. rhinophoron Javorn., wurde in einer Klranlage neuerdings gefunden. Ein andere verbreiteter Dinoflagellat wird mit der unvollkommen beschriebenen Art G. wawrikae Schiller identifiziert. Weiters wurden drei Verterter der Gattung Woloszynskia Thompson studiert, u.zw. W. coronata (Wolosz.) Thomp. var. glabra Wolosz., W. neglecta (Schilling) Thomp. und W. mira (Uterm.) Kiselev. Die morphologische Variabilitt der beiden allgemein bekannten Arten Katodinium vorticella (Stein) Fott und Gyrodinium hyalinum (Schilling) Kof. et Swezy wird angefhrt. Die Art Katodinium tetragonops (Harris) Fott wurde nach einem Teil der Harris'schen Typusfigur genauer bestimmt. 
4180041| Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit zwei, die Vegetation felsiger vulkanischer Substrate einschliessenden Verbnden: Alysso-Festucion pallentis Moravec 1967 und Festucion valesiacae Klika 1933, in deren Rahmen acht Assoziationen untersucht wurden: Alysso-Festucetum Klika ex eovsk 1949, Asperulo-Festucetum Preis in Klika 1939, Allio-Sedetum Klika 1939, Melico-Sempervivetum Preis in Klika 1939, Alysso-Potentilletum Preis 1939, Carici-Festucetum Klika 1951, Erysimo-Festucetum Klika 1933 und Festuco-Stipetum Sillinger 1931. Im kologischen Abschnitt wurde auf den Vergleich von chemischen Eigenschaften der Bden (Aziditt und ihr Saisonverlauf, Gehalt an Austauschionen -
4179500| Diese Studie behandelt die Benennung von Pflanzenarealen und bringt ebenso Vorschlge fr die Bildung der Arealformeln als einer gekrzten Ausdrucksweise der Arealbenennungen (mit Beispielen). Die vorgeschlagenen Benennungen fr Areale und Arealtypen werden in einem Verzeichnis zusammengefasst. Weiter enthlt diese Arbeit auch ein Verzeichnis von in der phytogeographischen Literatur verwendeten Synonymen, mit Angabe der Termini, die dem vorgelegten Vorschlag fr die Bildung einer arealonomischen Terminologie entsprechen. Im weiteren wird versucht, eine systematische bersicht von Arealtypen aufzustellen. Es folgt eine Aufzhlung von Ortanten, Migranten, Migratoren und europischen Florenelementen, bzw. Florensubelementen. /// The study deals with the formation of terms for the areas of the taxa. For this purpose the authors start from the names of the vegetation zones (subzones). The dislocation of the zones and subzones is indicated on map 1. For the denomination of geographically not extensive areas terms can be used which are derived from the designation of the geographic region (regions) in which the area is situated. A constituent part of the terms of many areas is the expression of their relation to the geographic oceanity or continentality. In both cases we can distinguish several degrees of these relations, three degrees in the area of Europe being indicated on maps 2 and 3. If the occurrence of the taxon is limited to the mountain region the use of the term "oreo-" is recommended; this term is put before the designation of the region in which the occurrence of the taxon is limited only to the mountains. For the designation of wide areas, which occupy more than two vegetation zones (subzones), the term "eury-" is put at the beginning of the designation; after this term only the names of the border-zones (subzones) are given. If the area extends from one zone (subzone, region) into part of an adjoining zone (zones, subzone, region), the designation "-pen-" should be used, after which the name of the zone (subzone, region) into which the area extends is given. To the geographic designation of areas closely limited to the coast regions of the ocean (sea) the term "aegialophytic" is appended. The terms of the areas can be usefully abbreviated by means of the area formulas, which are composed of the abbreviations of the designations of the vegetation zone (subzone), of the oceanity and continentality, of the vertical distribution and of the location at the ocean (sea). This basis of the area formula is completed with the abbreviations of the geographic names of the regions in which the are of the taxon is situated. The study also includes the alphabetical enumeration of the terms of areatypes (areas). For every term the Latin equivalent is given, the geographic delimitation and examples with references to the maps of distribution published in the literature. At the end of the text on the areatype (area) the area formula is added. An enumeration of some synonyms of the areas (areatypes) with the equivalent terms according to the proposed method of the designation of areas is then given. The study also includes a systematic survey of the areatypes, which are classified in classes and circles of areatypes; and finally the enumerations of terms for the designation of the ortants, migrants, migrators and floristic elements (for the area of Europe) are given. 
4179763| Taxonomy and distribution of Parietaria serbica Pan., P. lusitanica L., P. micrantha Lebed. and P. mauritanica Dur. is briefly discussed. P. serbica is an endemic species of SE. Europe and is related to P. judaica Strand in L. P. lusitanica is divided into two subspecies. P. micrantha is treated as a variety of P. lusitanica subsp. chersonensis (Lang) Chrtek. P. mauritanica is reported as a new species for Sicily. 
4179471|It is evident that some higher syntaxonomic unit above the classes is needed. The "circle of vegetation", proposed by Braun-Blanquet is a geographical, not a synecological unit; the "formation", recommended recently by Passarge, is based on physiognomy and therefore inconsistent with the principles of lower entities. The "division" proposed recently by Jakucs seems to be identical with the "type of vegetation", published already 11 years ago by the present author.
4181222| The distribution, total frequency of occurrence, regional differences and habitat conditions of diploid and triploid Butomus umbellatus L. were studied in the Czech and Slovak Republics. Triploids are more frequent than diploids, with numerous localities in warm lowland regions in river floodplains. Diploids were found primarily in the South Bohemian Tebo basin, outside the warm regions. The two cytotypes do not differ in dependence on water depth. Triploids occur more in habitats with more alkaline and base-rich soils. Considering the total distribution of both cytotypes in the area studied, triploid B. umbellatus appears to be more successful than its diploid progenitor, owing to its wider habitat range and superiority in vegetative reproduction. 
4181546| Heathland vegetation of northern Spain, included in the Calluno-Ulicetea, was studied using a set of 802 phytosociological relevs. The existing syntaxonomy has been tested and most of the types (associations and subassociations) fit satisfactorily with the observed groupings. Two main problems were encountered within the Ulex dominated communities of the Cantabrian fringe and the Castilian-Cantabrian heathland communities. Both groups of communities were subject to ordination in order to clarify relationships between them. For the former group, ordination suggests that three associations can be distinguished: the Ulici-Ericetum vagantis (lowlands up to the submontane belt), the Vaccinio-Ulicetum gallii for the communities of higher altitudes (montane belt) and the Ulici-Ericetum ciliaris (hygrophilous heathlands). The Castilian-Cantabrian heathlands show a variable Mediterranean influence and have a dispersed distribution due to lithological conditions. This results in the distinction of two new associations, viz. the Arctostaphylo crassifoliae-Daboecietum cantabricae (marly, water-retaining soils) and the Ericetum scopario-vagantis (sandy soils). A complete classification of the Calluno-Ulicetea in the studied area and short ecological and biogeographical diagnoses are given. 
4179570| Lotus krylovii Schischk. et Serg. und L. corniculatus L. subsp. frondosus Freyn sind zwei unterschiedliche Taxa, gekennzeichnet durch einige morphologische Merkmale. L. krylovii ist am nchsten mit L. tenuis Waldst. et Kit. verwandt; L. corniculatus subsp. frondosus gehrt in den Umkreis der Unterart von L. corniculatus L., die im stlichen Teil des Areals der Art verbreitet ist. Nach ihrer Haupt-Verbreitung gehren die beiden Taxa zu den westasiatischen Arten. /// As a result of the study of various herbaria, particularly of the original sheet of L. corniculatus L. subsp. frondosus Freyn, of the plants L. krylovii Schischk. et Serg. from the published labels (Kuprijanova 1949) and of the two plants from Sergievskaja it has been found that these two taxa cannot be considered as identical (the names are not synonyma) as has been done in some papers. The two taxa differ from each other by some morphological features, particularly in the form of the laeflets, in the form and colour of the flowers. In L. corniculatus L. subsp. frondosus all the leaflets on the same leaf are of much the same shape, oblong to oblong-ovate or oblong obovate; the calyx teeth are broader,  as long as the calyx tube, and the corolla is yellow. In L. krylovii the leaflets have different shape, as is usual in the group of L. corniculatus L.; the upper three leaflets are lanceolate to narrowly lanceolate, the lower two being broader and shorter; the calyx teeth are norrower, longer than the calyx tube and the corolla has a purple standard. L. corniculatus subsp. frondosus does not differ from other forms of L. corniculatus L. in any other important feature than in the same form of the leaflets composing one leaf. L. krylovii differs from L. corniculatus in several important features. According to the main distribution, both taxa belong to West-Asiatic elements, L. krylovii with a part of the area reaching East-Europe. L. corniculatus L. subsp. frondosus Freyn is distributed in Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and USSR, L. krylovii Schischk. et Serg. in Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan and USSR. 
4181349| Permanent plots with a fine scale recording system were used to trace the spatiotemporal process within two mountain grasslands in the Krkonoe Mts., Czech Republic. The analysis used autocorrelation over increasing lags in space and/or time. Moran's I was used to measure the autocorrelation. There was a lot of variation between species both in spatial and temporal correlograms. The spatiotemporal pattern of species correlated well with the growth form of the species and the degree of its clonality. Clonally-growing species tended to have high clumping at distances of a few cells, whereas rosette species often did not show any clumping. The type of clonal growth (compact vs. long spacers) is well correlated with the temporal correlogram (species mobility). There is a relation between low mobility and high clumping at low distances. Attempts to explain the mechanisms of species coexistence in these grasslands should take into account the particular structure of the fine-scale dynamics of these communities of predominantly clonal plants. 
4179962|Transpiration rate in four types of alluvial meadows has been studied. Water wapour output of different grassland communities seems to be proportional to their biomass, bearing no relation to the species composition even though transpiration of individual species differed considerably. The relation between the above-ground biomass and the daily transpiration has been ascertained for wet, mesophytic and dry grassland and seems to be constant under similar sets of environmental conditions. The coefficient for estimating the daily transpiration in meadows from their biomass is presented.
4180466|A survey of homonyms in the genus Taraxacum is given. 10 new names are proposed (partly as a result of collaboration with the authors of illegitimate names.), 8 other homonyms are listed. Homonyms which were recorded previously in the literature (or names that were substituted by new names) are only briefly mentioned.
4181134|The division of the species Stachys recta into four subspecies is proposed. Besides the nominate subspecies, subsp. grandiflora (Caruel) Arcangeli, subsp. subcrenata (Vis.) Briq. and the newly combined S. recta subsp. rhodopaea (Vel.) Chrtek jun. are described. The last subspecies differs from the others mainly by the calyx shape (infundibular here) and by the calyx teeth which are about as long as the tube. It is distributed in Macedonia and Bulgaria. A determination key to the species of the S. recta group is provided.
4181465|Ploidy levels of 8 taxa of the genus Hieracium subgenus Pilosella collected from the same locality were determined by means of flow cytometric estimation of relative nuclear DNA content. The DNA analysis of isolated nuclei stained with propidium iodide was performed with a flow cytometer equipped with an argon-ion laser. The diploid species H. lactucella (2n=18) was used as internal standard. As a rule 20 individuals per taxon were analysed. The flow cytometric analysis proved to be a rapid, accurate and sensitive method for screening of ploidy levels. Considering the known cytological data, the following ploidy levels were determined: H. aurantiacum 4x, H. pilosella 4x, H. piloselloides 4x, H. bauhini 5x, H. caespitosum 5x, H. stoloniflorum 4x, H. brachiatum 4x and 6x, H. leptophyton 7x. H. piloselloides, H. bauhini and H. caespitosum yield relative DNA contents which are the exact multiples of the haploid DNA content of H. lactucella. In the case of H. pilosella the haploid DNA content is lower than that predicted from the diploid, namely 0.43 instead of the expected 0.5. The haploid 1x DNA contents of both H. brachiatum and H. leptophyton range between the value found for H. pilosella and those for the other investigated species, confirming their hybrid origin.
4179426| Menyanthes trifoliata ist in der Tschechoslowakei verbreitet, zumeist in den Herzynischen und Sudetischen Bezirken, in der Hhe von (100) 350-650 (1200 m) . M. Ihre kologie wurde krzlich diskutiert. /// The map of distribution of this species in Czechoslovakia was prepared from the literature, herbaria, manuscripts and oral information of many Czechoslovak botanists and from our own observations. M. trifoliata has ist optimum in the alliances Caricion fuscae and Cicution virosae, on mesotrophic, mostly organogen sediments. In Czechoslovakia it has a wide vertical distribution, from 100 m above sea level to about 1200 m, but mainly at 350-650 m. It is distributed chiefly in the regions Hercynicum and Sudeticum (about 80% from 1000 localities); it is scattered both in the Pannonicum (10%) and in the Carpaticum (10%). The causes of its absence in several parts of the Carpathians are not yet clear. Menyanthes was found subfossil in the sediments of Mindel-Riss, Riss-Wrm, Wrm and Holocaen. It is probable that it survived the whole Ice Age in Czechoslovakia. 
4179805|Acremoniella atra auct. is taxonomically identical with Harzia acremonioides (Harz) Cost. which is the type of the genus Harzia. Harzia Cost. 1888 must replace the illegitimate name Acremoniella Sacc. 1886. Two new combinations - Harzia velata (Onions et Jones) Hol.-Jech. and Harzia verrucosa (Togn.) Hol.-Jech. are proposed.
4179418| Die Gesellschaften der Kleinseggen-Moorwiesen auf kalkhaltigen Quellstellen mit vorherrschender Carex davalliana wurden meistens in die einzige Assoziation - Caricetum davallianae - zusammengefasst. Auf Grund ihrer vergleichenden floristischen Analyse und ihrer geographischen und kologischen Gesetzmssigkeiten gliedert der Autor die Carex davalliana-Gesellschaften in fnf nachfolgende Assoziationen, u. zw. in das pyrenische Pediculari (silvaticae)-Caricetum davallianae, in das alpische Caricetum davallianae (s. str.), in das karpatische Valeriano simplicifoliae-Caricetum davallianae, in das Valeriano dioicae-Caricetum davallianae der Tiefebenen und niedrigerer Gebirge Mitteleuropas und in das mssig azidophile Caricetum davalliano-demissae. /// The Carex davalliana-communities that occur in the vicinity of calcareous springs and in anmoor meadows in Central Europe with detached occurrence in the Pyrenees and the Alpes Maritimes have up to now been united in one single association called Caricetum davallianae, distributed from the Pyrenees to the Western Carpathians and Hungarian Lowland and vertically occurring from lowland (100 m. above sea level) up to the alpine zone (2220 m.). However, floristic differences as well as the geographical and ecological relationships of the Carex davalliana-communities make it possible to distinguish five associations. Three associations are bound to the European mountains and are indicated by the simultaneous occurrence of Primula farinosa, Tofieldia calyculata, and Eleocharis quinqueflora: 1. Pediculari (silvaticae)-Caricetum davallianae is differentiated from the other two associations first of all by Primula integrifolia, Pedicularis mixta, and Selinum pyrenaeum. It occurs exclusively in the alpine zone of the Pyrenees. 2. Caricetum davallianae (s. str.) is characterized by several mountain to alpine species, e.g. Ballidiastrum michelii, Bartsia alpina, and Pinguicula alpina. It occurs in the territory of the Alps mostly at altitudes from 1000 to 2000 m.; it descends, however, also into the adjacent highlands as impoverished forms characterized only by Primula farinosa, Tofieldia calyculata, and Eleocharis quinqueflora. 3. Valeriano simplicifoliae-Caricetum davallianae is distributed over the Western Carpathians. From both the foregoing associations it is differentiated first of all by Valeriana simplicifolia and further by Galium vernum and Polygala amara ssp. brachyptera as differential species. The impoverished stands of this association are very similar to the impoverished stands of the alpine Caricetum davallianae. The further two associations occur in lower highlands and in lowlands of Central Europe. From the foregoing three associations they are differentiated by the absence of Primula farinosa, Tofieldia calyculata, and Eleocharis quinqueflora. There are the following associations: 4. Valeriano dioicae-Caricetum davallianae, characterized by higher occurrence constancy of Valeriana dioica and Caltha palustris; these species, however, cannot be considered as characteristic species. This association is distributed from the Eifel Mountains in Western Germany to the Hungarian Lowland at altitudes from 100 to 850 m. 5. Caricetum davalliano-demissae is differentiated from the foregoing association by a richer set of species of the order Caricetalia fuscae and the alliance Caricion fuscae, e.g. Carex stellulata, C. demissa, Juncus acutiflorus, J. bulbosus, Drosera rotundifolia, Sphagnum subsecundum, and S. recurvum; it represents therefore a member of the ecological series between the Valeriano dioicae-Caricetum davallianae and the acidophilous sedge-communities of the Caricion fuscae. At present this association is known only in the Schwarzwald Mountains. Within the associations those subassociations are mentioned which are of a more general validity. Moreover, those grounds have been discussed that were decisive in the syntaxonomical conception of particular associations and in the evaluation of the significance of particular species for the definition and delimitation of these associations. There follow several more general conclusions from this study concerning the classification of plant communities of particular units or group of related units in the whole area of distribution. 1. Units defined only on the basis of a few or only one characteristic species may be rather heterogeneous from both the floristic and the ecological point of view. Therefore it is advisable to consider the more important floristic differences of plant communities, of geographical origin, as differences of independent associations, especially if these units are geographically isolated. This evaluation is also supported by differences in the floristic composition of units caused by the fixation of the plant community in a pattern of plant communities which is characteristic for a particular territory. 2. The importance of a species for classification depends on the question of whether its occurrence in the community being studied lies in the range of its life prosperity or whether its prosperity is reduced and its occurrence in the community is conditioned only by penetration from surrounding communities. In evaluating the classificatory importance of a species (or several species) of lower constancy it ought be taken into consideration whether the probability of its occurrence is the same in all stands of the unit characterized by it, or whether in some stands this probability is lower or even nonexistent. Only where the occurrence probability of a species is equal for all stands included in the unit characterized by this species, even if it is not in all cases realized, is it possible to use the considered species for characterizing the unit. In this unit it is then possible to classify also stands where the characterizing species is absent but in which the occurrence probability of this species is the same as in the other stands of the unit. 3. The convergence phenomena can occur in stands of closely related units impoverished by species that differentiate the considered units. Such stands are nearly equal in their floristic composition but it is impossible to put them into the same unit because of differences in other characters than in the floristic composition. In such cases the occurrence probability of species characterizing the unit in the stands is to be judged. Only those impoverished stands may be put into one unit in which the occurrence probability of the species characterizing the unit the same is as in the normal stands. 4. The differentiation of closely related associations should be made from two standpoints: a) from the standpoint of the absolute relationships in the whole area of the group of related associations, b) from the standpoint of the relative relationships of association in a particular limited territory. The groups of species differentiating the related vicarious associations of different territories cannot be used in many cases for distinguishing these associations from closely related associations in one particular territory. In such cases a group of species which is usually common in all vicarious associations as well as specific for them must be used to differentiate associations. This group of species also expresses the specific environmental conditions of the considered group of vicarious associations. 
4180989|In the course of three years' investigations (1983-1986) of Lake Volvi, N Greece, 62 species and varieties of chlorococcal algae and 6 species of ulotrichal algae (Chlorophyceae) were found. Although chlorophytes form the largest group of the phytoplankton assemblages of the lake, their biomass is relatively small or even negligeable in some periods of the year in comparison with domination cyanophytes, diatoms and cryptophytes. Morphological variation of diagnostic features is described and documented by original drawings in 53 taxa.
4179780|A new species of the genus Tragopogon (T. kurdistanicum) has been described from Iraq.
4181272|A review is presented of various ecological and population aspects of Taraxacum agamospermy. Agamospermy is compared with vegetative clonality, the former differing in capability to generate variation, seed dispersal and often long evolutionary history. Clonal diversity of agamospermous taxa ranges from almost absolute uniclonality to high diversity of clones. Multiclonality is suggested to represent one of agamospecies' population characteristics. Biological individuality of clones allows coexistence of clones at a locality. Competition and other factors influencing number of clones at a locality are discussed. Geographical and ecological distributions of agamospermous and sexual Taraxacum taxa are evaluated, their coexistence and gene flow are addressed, and a hypothesis is presented concerning the population condition in mixed stands of sexual and asexual Taraxaca. Lastly, agamospermy is shown to significantly reduce recombination processes; it should not be considered an absolute evolutionary "blind alley".
4180690|The composition of volatile oils produced by Euphorbia fragifera is reported. The plant samples were collected in two different habitats on the Karst plateau North of Trieste (North Eastern Italy). The analysis was performed by capillary GC. Differences between samples from the two habitats have been found in the quantitative composition of the oils. The plants coming from the optimal, xeric habitat produce oils in which aromatic terpenes (mostly carvacrol) are more abundant, whereas the oils of plants growing in shady and moist sites are mostly composed by acyclic compounds (chiefly geraniol). It seems therefore possible to distinguish two chemical variants of Euphorbia fragifera. The number and kind of pollinating insects have been recorded. Terpenoids from the two kinds of essential oil could be responsible of two different pheromones that attract different kinds of pollinators.
4181487|The population dynamics of Taraxacum serotinum (Waldst. et Kit.) Poir. were studied in two stands of a loess grassland community (Salvio-Festucetum rupicolae). The two stands differed in their previous management: one of them had been grazed by sheep and the other had been mown before the start of the study. The fate of every rosette of Taraxacum was followed in an area of 75 m
4180439|Starting from the significance of the leaf surface for synmorphology, synecology, herbivory, decomposition and other use values, the leaf shape and size, consistency and seasonality have been surveyed in some forest and nonforested Central European communities. In both the individual species and the plant communities, the leaf size and shape are linearly correlated with mineral nutrient supply and, to some extent, also by soil moisture, both factors having been evaluated according to the importance value for each indicator species. Leaf consistency and periodicity tend to coincide with the moisture gradient. Noteworthy is the smoothing influence of the forest canopy on the representation of various leaf categories in comparison with nonforested communities. No correlation was found between the light factor and the representation of leaf graminoid types.
4179722| Eine neue syntaxonomische Klassifizierung der nitrophilen Gesellschaften ein- bis zweijhriger Arten der Klasse Galio-Urticetea Passarge 67 em. Kopeck 69 wird vorgeschlagen. Sie ermglicht eine Einreihung der Mehrzahl von in der Natur existierenden Gesellschaften in das phytoznologische System, wobei maximale Rcksicht auf ihre innere Dynamik und ihre syngenetische Beziehungen genommen wird. /// Differences in development and distribution of communities of annual and biennial plants belonging to the class Galio-Urticetea are clearly manifested by the various degree of syntaxonomic differentiation of their individual stands. A considerable number of stands encountered in nature cannot be classed within any of the associations described in the sense of Zrich-Montpellier School, and can be classified - according to their species composition - merely within the broad limits of a certain alliance, order, or class. We assume, however, that these stands lacking association rank can also be satisfactorily included in the phytocenological system provided that the syngenetic relations and internal dynamics of the stands are taken into account. The theoretical principles of the syntaxonomic classification used here, together with the general nomenclature of newly defined cenological units, have been explained in detail in an earlier paper (see Kopeck et Hejn 1971). In accordance with this conception, communities of annual and biennial plants which Central European phytocenologists place in the alliance Galio-Alliarion (within Galio-Urticetea), could be classified into units of the following categories: 1. Sociologically saturated associations, i.e. those containing a complete hierarchy of character and differentiating species of the superior syntaxa, including the association character species. 2. Basal communities belonging to no association, i.e. the communities situated within the limits of a class (order, or alliance), and showing a low degree of syntaxonomic differentiation; they consist of the character and differentiating species of higher syntaxa, together with the respective companion species. 3. Derivative communities without any association rank, i.e. communities consisting of character and differentiating species of higher syntaxa (within the limits of the respective class), and furthermore, of companion and character species by which the higher degree of ecological specialization of stands is determined. The ecological and cenological range of species of derivative communities is distinctly wider than that of character species of associations; however, it is narrower than in species of which the basal communities consist. Among the typical character species of derivative communities one encounters plants which have been stimulated - by various human activities - to spread intensively over biotopes of a particular set of cenoses in a certain region, and which have gradually occupied the area (e.g. apophytes and neophytes, such as Torilis japonica, Impatiens parviflora, etc.), while the less competitive native species have been suppressed. 4. The phase of the community is marked by the temporary predominance of a certain species in the stand of the association, both of the basal and derivative communities. It manifests changes in the stand's sociological structure and indicates developmental trends in its syngenesis. Besides various external disturbing factors, the replacing of dominant species in individual community phases is caused mainly by competition. A survey of distinct vegetation units, their brief characterization and species composition are given in Tab. 2-5. 
4180278| Behandelt werden: Vegetationskundliche Probeflchenwahl auf Waldschlgen, Biologie und Coenologie diagnostisch wichtiger Schlagpflanzen, Therophyten-reiche Pionierfluren mit Rumex acetosella, Senecio sylvaticus und Galeopsis-Arten (Tab. 1-3), Syntaxonomie der Vegetationseinheiten (s. S. 285). /// The paper deals with sample areas (relev) of woodland-cuts, biology and coenology of essential cut-species, initial communities rich in therophyts with Rumex acetosella, Senecio sylvaticus and Galeopsis (tabl. 1-3), syntaxonomy of vegetation units (pp. 287). 
4179468| Es sind die Ergebnisse der Stoffproduktion-Analysen von Phalaris arundinacea-Bestnden im Hinblick auf die hydrologischen Bedingungen der Jahre 1965 und 1966 angegeben. Die Analysen wurden auf den Standorten dreier Stufen der Orlice-Flussaue (NO-Bhmen) durchgefhrt, die sich von einander durch die Dauer der berflutung, der Hhe der Hochwassersule sowie durch den Verlauf des Erosions-Akkumulationsprozesses unterscheiden. In der Zeit vom 1. IV. bis 30. VI. 1965 war die untere Stufe der Flussaue (Zone I) whrend 91 Tagen, die mittlere Stufe der Flussaue (Zone II) whrend 55 Tagen und die obere Stufe der Flussaue (Zone III) whrend 20 Tagen berflutet. Mitte Juli 1965 betrug die oberirdische Nettoproduktion in der Zone
4180443| A list including 114 selected subspecies names from the book Schbler and Martens, Flora von Wrtemberg, 1834 is given. Twenty of them are very important for the present taxonomic classification. 
4179487| The paper summarizes the results of the palaeoecological study of one profile of the Blto mire, situated in southeastern Bohemia (Czechoslovakia). The authors evaluate their finds and endeavour to present a phytocenological picture of the composition and succession of peat-forming communities from the Allerd Period onwards. /// In dieser Arbeit werden Ergebnisse einer palogeobotanischen Forschung vorgelegt, die die Verfasser auf dem Moore unweit der Ortschaft Blto (frher ipachy) bei der Stadt Nov Bystice in Sdbhmen (Tschechoslowakei) vorgenommen haben. Es wird hier versucht, die Rekonstruktion der torfbildenden Gesellschaften des Lagers vom Allerd an bis zum heutigen Tage vorzunehmen. Fr ihre Schlussfolgerungen bentzen die Autoren die Grossrestanalysen und Pollenanalysen der Torfsedimente. Zu diesem Zwecke wurde ausser dem karpologischen Diagramm - in welchem auch die Funde der bestimmten vegetativen Teile einbegriffen sind - auch ein spezielles Pollendiagramm aufgestellt. Dieses ist so ausgearbeitet, dass die perzentuellen Werte der von den  lokalen Produzenten stammenden Sporomorphen und die perzentuellen Werte von Produzenten mit einem Schwerpunkt in der Festlandvegetation unabhngig voneinander berechnet wurden. Vom Gesichtspunkt der historischen Phytogeographie aus sind einige Funde von Moosen (Calliergon giganteum, Helodium blandowii, Calliergon trifarium u. a.) und einiger Gefsspflanzen (wie Hippuris vulgaris, Potamogeton cf. filiformis, Stellaria cf. palustris, Montia rivularis, Salix cf. myrtilloides u. a.) interessant. Bei der Rekonstruktion gelangten die Verfasser zu dem Schluss, dass die torfbildenden Gesellschaften vom Allerd an insgesamt acht Hauptenwicklungsphasen durchgemacht haben, die gemss dem mitteleuropischen phytoznologischen System im allgemeinen folgendermassen klassifiziert werden knnen: I. Arktischer Typus der Gesellschaft der Potametalia Koch 1926 mit Potamogeton filiformis, Hippuris vulgaris usw. II. Gesellschaften, die sich dem Magnocaricion Koch 1926 - Verband nhern, in spteren Entwicklungsstadien werden sie von Elementen der Gesellschaften der Klasse Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae Nordh. ex Tx. 1937 bereichert. III. Gesellschaft mit Betula nana und Salix cf. myrtilloides. IV. Unentwickelte Bestnde mit Filipendula ulmaria und Lysimachia vulgaris. V. Phragmites- und Carex-Bestnde mit Sphagnum (dem Verband Eriophorion gracilis Prsg. apud Oberd. 1957 nahe Gesellschaften). VI. Carex lasiocarpa - Sphagnum sect. Subsecunda-Gesellschaft (Verband Eriophorion gracilis Prsg. apud Oberd. 1957). VII. Oligotrophe bis dystrophe Gesellschaften der Klasse Oxycocco-Sphagnetea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943 mit Eriophorum vaginatum und Sphagnum magellanicum. VIII. Schlussgesellschaften der vorhergehenden Phase mit Pinus silvestris-Bestnden (Klasse Vaccinio-Piceetea Br.-Bl. 1939). Der Arbeit ist eine kurze Beschreibung der Festlandvegetationsentwicklung der Umgebung des Torflagers beigeschlossen, so wie sie auf dem speziellen Pollendiagramm dargestellt ist. In dem Untersuchungsgebiet wurden einige kleinere Abweichungen von den blichen Entwicklungsschemas festgestellt, u. zw. das Vorkommen von Pollenkrnern der anspruchsvolleren Gehlze schon in den sptglazialen Schichten (Corylus, Alnus, Quercus u. a.); im Boreal wurde dann eine relativ geringere Vertretung der Corylus im Gebiet im Vergleich mit Gebieten mit mehr ozeanischem Klima in Westeuropa gefunden und ihr Hauptmaximum dann erst im Atlantikum festgelegt. Der Antritt der QM-Gehlze wurde schon im Prboreal und der der Fagus bereits im Atlantikum festgestellt. 
4179543|The meadow plant communities, Arrhenatheretum elatioris alopecuretosum pratensis R. Tx. 1937 and Mesobrometum erecti stipetosum Vicherek 1960, were chosen for investigations of the underground plant parts. Apparent differences in underground dry weight and its seasonal changes in both the communities were observed. Differences in the soil environment in different periods of the year are reflected in the character of time changes in underground dry weight. The soil environment affects not only the total underground biomass and their changes in time, but also the activity of soil microflora and, consequently, the decomposition rate of dead underground plant parts.
4181388|Populations of Luzula multiflora s.l. in Ireland were examined karyologicall. Plants from 14 populations were invariably tetraploid with 2n=24. Chromosomes of the tetraploid are of AL type (true tetraploidy). Meiosis of the tetraploids is of the same type as described for other Luzula taxa in the literature. In meiosis, 12 bivalents are regularly formed. A hypothesis based on the morphological and allozyme data, that the tetraploids are of alloploid origin, is supported by the present results. Meiosis in an artificial hybrid between the presumed parental taxa, L. campestris and L. pallidula, was studied; a certain tendency towards chromosome doubling was observed. The geographical distribution of the L. multiflora cytotypes is also discussed.
4180887|The article deals with the description of a new endemic Zornia species, the Zornia dichotoma. It was collected on a sandhill near the road connecting the town of Guane with the village of Cortes (Pinar del Rio province), not far from the classical locality of Zornia arenicola.
4181018|The biomass of epiphytic algae increased more than the biomass of phytoplankton with increased nutrient availability (N, P, Si) in four lakes. Large epiphyte biomasses on the submerged macrophyte, Littorella uniflora, reduce light attenuation more than phytoplankton did. High values of shading by epiphytes correspond with a reduction in the maximum depth penetration of Littorella by more than 1 meter.
4180436| Based on new relevs from the area of the Czech Socialist Republic, the association Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum Husov 1968 is divided into two subassociations: D.f.-A. deschampsietosum flexuosae and D. f.-A. calamagrostietosum. The species composition and variability of the association and both subassociations is given in a synoptic table. The soil properties are also added. /// Der vorliegende Beitrag befasst sich mit der Syntaxonomie der natrlichen azidophilen durch die Assoziation Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum Husov 1968 reprsentierten Hangtannenwlder der Tschechischen sozialistischen Republik. Der phytoznologischen Synthese wurde Aufnahmematerial aus verschiedenen Verbreitungsgebieten zugrundegelegt (Tab. 1). Die Angaben ber die Standortskologie des Deschampsio-Abietetum wurden durch die chemischen Analysen der Rhizosphre belegt (Tab. 2). Aufgrund der bestehenden hnlichkeit in der Artenzusammensetzung der Krautschicht und in einigen kologischen Eigenschaften des Standortes wurde die Stellung der Assoziation Deschampsio-Abietetum im Verband Luzulo-Fagion Lohm. et Tx. in Tx. 1954 besttigt (s. Husov 1968a: 166). Die forstwirtschaftliche und naturschutzliche Bedeutung natrlicher Hangtannenwlder wird zusammengefasst dargelegt. Es wird empfohlen, die gut erhaltenen Bestnde des Deschampsio-Abietetum auf erosionsexponierten Stellen als Schutzwald ohne Bewirtschaftung zu belassen. Fr die natrlichen bzw. naturnahen Bestnde des Deschampsio-Abietetum ist die lockere, durch das gegliederte Relief der Standorte bedingte Baumschicht, die sprlich entwickelte Strauchschicht mit gruppenartigem Tannenjungwuchs, die artenarme, grasartige Krautschicht und die geschlossene, ppige Moosschicht kennzeichnend. Die Physiognomie der Baumschicht wird durchwegs von Nadelhlzer bestimmt; die Tanne reprsentiert den natrlichen Hauptedifikator der Phytoznosen. Aufgrund einer Tabellen-Synthese wird das Deschampsio-Abietetum in zwei Subassoziationen so gegliedert: 1. Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum deschampsietosum flexuosae Husov subass. nova, die den feuchteren, artenrmeren Flgel der Assoziation darstellt. In der Baumschicht macht sich ausser der Tanne noch die Kiefer und in den Inversionslagen die Fichte als natrlicher Nebenbestand geltend. An der Artenzusammensetzung beteiligen sich in einer grsseren Menge anspruchslose, azidophile Arten und Sauerhumusbewohner. Der Anteil der Fagetalia- und Querco-Fagetea-Arten ist sehr gering. Die Physiognomie der Moosschicht wird vom Polytrichum formosum und Leucobryum glaucum bestimmt, die feuchtesten Ausbildungen auf exponierten Luvseiten werden mit Bazzania trilobata, Polytrichum commune, Sphagnum girgensohnii und S. quinquefarium differenziert. Diese Subassoziation weist eine enge Bindung an die luvseitigen nordwestlichen Expositionen. 2. Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum calamagrostietosum arundinaceae Husov subass. nova, die die artenreichere Subassoziation mit grsserem Anteil von Fagetalia-und Querco-Fagetea-Arten reprsentiert. Als Differentialarten knnen Stellaria holostea, Galium sylvaticum, Hepatica nobilis, Campanula rapunculoides und Lathyrus vernus angenommen werden. In der Baumschicht treten Kiefer und die natrlich vorhandene Fichte zurck. In der Moosschicht fehlen die Vertreter der feuchteren Ausbildungen der vorigen Subassoziation. Das Deschampsio-Abietetum besiedelt mittlere Lagen von 300 bis zu 450 m u. M., nur ausnahmsweise wurden die Bestandsreste in Meereshhen ber 550 m beobachtet. Der Untergrund wird von basenarmen Silikatgesteinen gebildet. Der Verbreitungsschwerpungt dieser Assoziation liegt auf luvseitigen, steilen Hngen der eingetieften Tler oder in den Taleinschnitten der Bche am Arealrand der Carpinion-Gesellschaften. Die vorherrschenden Bden des Deschampsio-Abietetum sind frischfeuchte, gut durchlftete oligotrophe Braunerden ohne Spuren der Vergleiung im Bodenprofil. Sie sind durch Sauerhumusbildung, saure Reaktion der mineralischen A-Horizonte und niedrigere Sttigung des Sorptionskomplexes mit zweiwertigen Basen gekennzeichnet. 
4181472|A review is presented of breeding peculiarities in Hypericum perforatum L. and their consequences. This species is a tetraploid hybrid (2n=4x=32) which is assumed to be allopolyploid. It is a facultative apomict with apospory and pseudogamy. Original results of chromosome number variation amongst H. perforatum regenerants are presented, and their seed offspring were studied. The results suggest that genetic diversity occurs in this taxon resulting in great phenotypic variation. Various records of natural and artificial hybridization, as published by several authors, are discussed.
4179859|Descriptions (mainly of microstructures) are given for two Japanese species: Albatrellus cantharellus (Lloyd) Pouz. and A. yasudai (Lloyd) Pouz. The former is classified, along with other amylosporous species lacking clamps on the context hyphae, as A. subrubescens (Murrill) Pouz. A. yasudai is referred to a new separate subgenus Hymenidermiger Pouz. based on the hymeniform cuticle of the pileus, which is a unique character in this genus.
4179827| The statistical method applied by Konalov (1972) to examine the frequency of some taxonomic characters is discussed and another interpretation of the data presented is proposed. 
4180858|Scanning and transmission electron microscopic studies were carried out on the pollen of the two species of Telfairia, T. pedata (Sims.) Hooker and T. occidentalis Hooker fil. Pollen grains in both species are spheroidal, tricolporate and tectate. The ectexine is finely reticulate. The tectum, foot layer and columellae are all well developed. Significant differences of taxonomic value do not exist in the structure of the pollen of the two species.
4181082| In an ecological field study, plants of Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla (Scirpus maritimus L. s. l.) growing in oligohaline and in mesohaline soils were compared. Differences between both populations mainly concerning osmotic potential, water potential and ionic concentrations could be related with the salt content at both sites, whereas transpiration and photosynthesis did not differ significantly. Water potential of the cell sap was affected by several external factors. /// In einer kologischen Freilandarbeit an der Unterweser wurden Bestnde von Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla an unterschiedlich salzhaltigen Standorten verglichen. Pflanzen des mesohalinen Standortes wiesen Blattnekrosen auf und starben aufgrund ihrer Salzakkumulation frhzeitig ab, wie sich berhaupt die Pflanzen am oligohalinen Standort deutlich vitaler zeigten. Die anatomisch-morphologische Struktur der Pflanzen beider Standorte zeigte weitestgehende bereinstimmung, ebenso die Nettophotosyntheserate und die Transpiration. Die Zellsaftkonzentration an Natrium, Chlorid, Magnesium, Kalzium und das osmotische Potential in den am mesohalinen Standort wachsenden Simsen erwies sich als deutlich erhht, das Wasserpotential hingegen erniedrigt verglichen mit der am oligohalinen Standort vorkommenden Population. Es zeigte sich, dass das Wasserpotential des Zellsaftes von unterschiedlichen usseren Faktoren beeinflusst war. Das Zellsaftpotential im mesohalinen Bestand wurde hauptschlich durch den Bodensalzgehalt bewirkt, whrend am oligohalinen Standort Tagesgang und Tiderhytmus den wesentlicheren Einfluss ausbten. Der Gehalt an Magnesium, Kalium, Kalzium im Zellsaft blieb ber die Vegetationsperiode hinweg konstant, whrend die anderen Grssen im Jahresgang schwankten. Die Untersuchung zeigte, da der fakultative Halophyt Bolboschoenus maritimus zum salzakkumulierenden Typus zhlt, und physiologisches und kologisches Optimum nicht identisch sind. 
4180639|Chromosome counts of 9 species of Taraxacum sect. Palustria are given. Five species were karyologically examined for the first time, viz. T. trilobifolium Hudziok, T. lissocarpum agg., T. paucilobum Hudziok, T. subalpinum Hudziok and T. mendax, a new pentaploid species. Taxonomic and nomenclatural notes are added.
4180658|Data are presented on the aboveground and underground biomass of the species Marsilea quadrifolia and on the water regime and soil conditions in a habitat of this species in Central Europe (Czechoslovakia).
4179701|The idea of the hybrid character of natural rose populations, esp. from the subsection Eucaninae, is put forward. The frequency of individual taxa which differs in one diacritic character was counted in a characteristic region and the numbers obtained were statistically evaluated. For the time being the results seem to testify to genetic correlation between some of the observed species.
4180130| Der Autor bewertete und emendierte die Assoziation Hordeetum murini Libbert 1932. Er analysiert und klassifiziert die Variabilitt der emendierten Assoziation, also Hordeetum murini Libbert 1932 em. Eli 1979 auf dem Gebiet der Westslowakei. Er unterschied und beschrieb einige neue Syntaxa. Die Arbeit enthlt phytoznologische Aufnahmen aus der Westslowakei und eine synthetische Tabelle. /// The author revalues the association Hordeetum murini Libbert 1932 which belongs to the alliance Bromo-Hordeion murini Hejn 1978. Libbert's original relevs are classified as new subassociation H. m. atriplicetosum hastatae Eli 1979. The variability of the association Hordeetum murini Libbert 1932 em. Eli 1979 in the Western Slovakia is analysed and classified. The following syntaxa were distinguished: H. m. typicum Tx. et Sissingh ex Sissingh 1950 out of positive differential species, H. m. brometosum sterilis Eli 1979 with Bromus sterilis as good differential species, H. m. brometosum tectorum (Gutte 1971) Eli 1979 with Bromus tectorum occuring mainly in railway areas and H. m. sisymbrietosum loeselii Eli (1977) 1979. Within the H. m. typicum two ecological variants are suggested, namely variant typicum and variant of Lolium perenne in trodden areas. Vegetation relevs recorded in Western Slovakia as well as a synthetic table are presented. 
4180527| A detailed phytocenological description of the Sclerio interruptae-Rhynchosporetum subimberbis Bal.-Tul. in Bal.-Tul. et Surli 1983 is presented. It deals with a savanna community documented for the time, by one relev only. 
4180910| The article comprises three consequent studies concerning the taxonomy of the Cuban cyanophyte/cyanobacterial microflora: (7) The "Oscillarieta" (cyanophyte mats with dominant oscillatorialean species) developing in periodical road slimes and pans in Cuba were analyzed. Phormidium cf. formosum dominated in 13 localities from 16 samples, Oscillatoria cf. annae, Phormidium ambiguum and Anabaena oblonga in the others. All other species occasionally grow in such communities. Twenty two species of cyanophytes (cyanobacteria) were found altogether in the analyzed communities. Their morphological variability is described and documented. - (8) A new species of Schmidleinema De-Toni f. 1936 (syn.: Camptylonema Schmidle 1900), S. cubanum, is described from alkaline swamps in the Zapata peninsula, prov. Matanzas, Cuba. Its morphological variation and life cycle were studied and the diacritical features of all Schmidleinema species were discussed. Schmidleinema roberti-lamii (Bourr.) comb. n., known from Guadeloupe, must be classified in this genus according to the original description. Two taxonomic recombinations are added with respect to the analyzed diacritical features: Camptylonemopsis umida (ado) comb. n. and Hapalosiphon godwardii (Prasad et Srivast.) comb. n. - (9) Three species of Chamaesiphonaceae (Chroococcales), apparently confined to the tropics, were found in Cuban creeks: Chamaesiphon africanus Schmidle, Stichosiphon sansibaricus (Hieron.) Dr. et Daily and Stichosiphon gardneri spec. n. The Cuban material made it possible to complete the descriptions and the study of the reproduction of the species involved. Stichosiphon pseudopolymorphus (Fritsch) comb. n. was recombined into the genus Stichosiphon in regard to its morphology and life cycle. 
4180542| Plant communities of forest clearings dominated by grass and grass-like species are analyzed. Their system is based on the coenological species groups. Each association is characterised from the view point of synecology, synchorology and syntaxonomy. /// Als Folgestadien der Vegetationsentwicklung nach Kahlschlag sind Waldschlagrasen in Mitteleuropa eine hufige, bisher wenig beobachtete Erscheinung. Ausgehend von den bestandbildenden Gramineae, Juncaceae und Cyperaceae werden zunchst die wichtigen coenologischen Artengruppen und ihr kologischer Zeigerwert herausgestellt. Beschrieben werden die Vegetationseinheiten der Avenella-, Festuca ovina-, Agrostis tenuis-, Festuca gigantea-, Juncus effusus-, Molinia-, sowie Bruch- und Auenwald-Schlagrasen (Tab. 1-5), unter Hinweis auf strukturelle Zusammensetzung, kleinstandrtliche Untergliederung, Standortansprche, regionale Abwandlungen, Verbreitung und Stellung in der Sukzessionsfolge. - Nach kritischer Wertung bisheriger Vorschlge zur Syntaxonomie werden die untersuchten Assoziationen und Gesellschaften in den neuen Verbnden/Ordnungen: Rumici-Avenellion, Avenello-Molinion, Rumici-Avenelletalia, Rubo-Agrostion tenuis, Cirsio-Dactylidion, Urtico-Dactylidetalia, Cirsio-Juncion effusi zusammengefasst (s. S. 377.) 
4181471|For many years several taxa belonging to the families Compositae and Rosaceae have been subjected to an intensive research on apomixis. These two families, together with the Gramineae have headed the list of the most thoroughly examined taxonomic groups in this field. At present, new methods are being elaborated and new problems solved within the following genera known to be apomictic, viz. Antennaria, Hieracium, Taraxacum, Alchemilla, Potentilla and Rubus. Many general problems still require more attention in future studies. Seven of them are considered in the present article: 1. frequency of apomixis; 2. occurrence of apospory and diplospory within one taxon; 3. nonfunctional apospory; 4. facultativeness of autonomous apomixis; 5. origin of endosperm; 6. timing of embryo and endosperm development in apomicts; 7. instability of the endosperm type. Both Compositae and Rosaceae produce suitable material for such research projects.
4180054| Die Arbeit beschreibt die synsystematische Stellung und die primren Standortsfaktoren der xerothermen Staudengesellschaften im Wallis und in angrenzender Waadt (Schweizer Zentral-Alpen). Diese Gesellschaften sind als Brachypodio pinnati-Geranion sanguinei Tx. in Mller 1962 em. van Gils et Kozlowska 1977, Brachypodietalia Korneck 1974 und Festuco-Brometea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943 klassifiziert. /// We have described the floristic composition and the primary site factors of xerothermic forb meadows and forb fringes (known as Brachypodio-Geranion, Brachypodietalia, Festuco-Brometea) in the Rhone valley in the Swiss Central Alps between Visp and Montreux. Further we have discussed the synsystematic position of these vegetations. The two associations, with their subunits, are distinguishable as follows: (a) the suboceanic Geranio-Trifolietum alpestris Mll. 1962, which only grows locally on silicateous substratum, in Ravoire (Martigny). (b) the intra-alpine Trifolio medii-Laserpitietum latifolii van Gils et Gilissen 1976; in Vaud this association has only been recorded on calcareous substratum, but in the more subcontinental Valais it grows on both calcareous and silicateous soils. The associations just mentioned are restricted to southerly exposed slopes and to altitudes varying between 750-1550 m. The stands at the lowest altitudes (750-950 m) have to be sought in a relatively humid climate (precipitation 1200 mm) or otherwise they are found on deep soils with alternating dry and humid conditions (in German: 'Wechselfeucht'). Characteristicly enough the most elevated relevs have been derived from rubble and heaps of stone in the driest part of the local Brachypodio-Geranion distribution area. Some primary Brachypodio-Geranion stands are noticeable. Most often, however, the Valaisian Brachypodio-Geranion communities have developed as forb fringe alongside present-day meadows, as a forb stadium of abandoned meadows or on road banks. The Brachypodio-Geranion communities are not resistent to intensive pasturing, annual mowing or fertilising. Other anthropogenic influences like burning, chopping of invading arboreous species and mechanical disturbance of the biogeocoenoses can influence the establishment and persistence of the Brachypodio-Geranion positively. As the last feature we have discussed the ecological significance of the polyploidy of the species, which are dominating the Brachypodio-Geranion. 
4179749| Die zweite Studie aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfam. Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) enthlt eine taxonomische Bearbeitung des Subg. Jungermannia. Nach dem Verfasser gehren zu diesem Subg. nur 7 Arten: J. atrovirens Dum. (identisch mit J. tristis Nees), J. exsertifolia Steph., J. gollanii Steph., J. karl-muelleri Grolle, J. ovato-trigona (Steph. in Herz.) Grolle, J. polaris Lindb. und J. pumila With. Die anderen, zu diesem Subg. gestellten Arten gehren teilweise zu den anderen Subgenera (J. grossitexta sensu Amak., J. kuwaharae Amak. und J. laetevirens (Spruce) K. Mll. in Grolle), teilweise als Synonyma nova zu den obenerwhnten Arten (J. nipponica (Sak. et Takah.) Hatt., J. tenerrima Steph. (hom. illeg.) und J. towadensis (Okam.) Hatt., sowie auch J. tristis Nees). /// This second study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Synonymy, description and keys to the species of the subgenus Jungermannia (genus Jungermannia). 2. Synonymy, drawings, description, type, exsiccata, ecological notes, distribution, material examined, taxonomic notes, variability and relationships of the 7 species of the subgenus Jungermannia. 3. Discussion of all infraspecific taxa on the basis of the concept of habitat modifications. From the taxonomic point of view the taxa J. karl-muelleri Grolle and J. polaris Lindb. (and naturally J. atrovirens Dum., J. exsertifolia Steph., J. gollanii Steph., J. ovato-trigona (Steph.) Grolle and J. pumila With., too) are regarded as the good species, J. cordifolia Hook. non Brothero as the subspecies and J. nipponica (Sak. et Takah.) Hatt., J. tenerrima Steph. non Raddi, J. towadensis (Okam.) Hatt. and J. tristis Nees as the habitat modifications. 
4179581|In recent years 4 species of the genus Echinodorus have been imported in large quantities to Europe from Southern Brazil, being cultivated as decorative plants in aquaria. In spite of the fact that up to now not all organs from these plants are known, they differ so greatly from the known species by character of the submersed leaves that there is no doubt that the species, in question, viz. E. osiris, E. opacus, E. horemani and E. portoalegrensis, are new.
4180008| Durch Herbar- und Literaturstudien wurden 72 Namen von Thymus-Sippen (64 Arten, 8 infraspezifische Taxa), die Ph. M. Opiz erstmalig publizierte oder auf Herbaretiketten hinterliess, festgestellt. Fast alle diese Namen gingen durch Opiz selbst oder sptere Autoren in die Literatur ein, wenn auch oft nur als nomina nuda. Fr alle von Opiz oder spter auf der Basis seiner hand-schriftlichen Diagnosen oder Herbarexemplare gltig verffentlichten Namen wird - soweit mglich - der Typus angegeben oder ein Lectotypus gewhlt. Die Typisierung ermglichte die Zuordnung der von Opiz und den anderen Autoren beschriebenen Taxa zu den mitteleuro-pischen Arten und Unterarten, die zur Erluterung der dabei bercksichtigten Artauffassung in einer bersicht zusammengestellt werden. Smtliche auf Opiz zurckgehenden Thymus-Namen werden diskutiert und die Revisionsergebnisse aller durchgesehenen authentischen Herbar-exemplare angegeben. Die Resultate der nomenklatorischen und taxonomischen Studien werden in Listen zusammengefasst. Auf der Grundlage eines Exsikkates von Opiz wird eine neue Variett beschrieben: Thymus alpestris var. opizianus var. nov. /// Besides other "critical groups" the Czech botanist Ph. M. Opiz dedicated special attention to the genus Thymus L. in Bohemia. He described a large number of own "microspecies" and pointed with it at the polymorphism of the Centraleuropean species. The present author, who studied the original literatur and authentic herbarium material, found 72 names of taxa (64 species, 8 infraspecific taxa) published by Opiz first or described on herbarium labels. Numerous epitheta are nomina nuda. Later authors examining his herbarium material or seeing his handwritten diagnoses on herbarium sheets validly described many of them. All found names of Thymus-taxa published by Opiz first are cited and discussed. The types for the validly described names are given. In the most cases a lectotype was selected of the examined original herbarium specimens. The identidy of the taxa according to the species recognized by the present author is given. All seen authentic herbarium specimens were determined. The results of determination are cited, even of the sheets with non validly published names, because in several recent treatments dealing with Centraleuropean species of genus Thymus such nomina nuda are considered as valid names. The results of nomenclatural and taxonomic studies and the herbaria with type material are listed. A new varietas named after Opiz, who collected the type specimen in the mountains of Krkonoe, is described: Thymus alpestris Tausch ex A. Kerner var. opizianus P. Schmidt. 
4180763|A phytosociological description of a new subassociation of the Phyllantho selbyi-Aristidetum brittonorum is presented. It occurs in the Siguanea Savanna complex near the Colony Hotel, on white sand.
4180441| The present paper deals with the following three mountain Oxytropis species: Oxytropis urumovii Jv. in Urumov, an endemic species of the Pirin (Bulgaria); O. dinarica (Murb.) Wettst. distributed predominantly in Yugoslavia, and O. campestris which is common in the East Alps, but very rare in the Balkans. Three subspecies of O. dinarica were distinguished: subsp. dinarica, subsp. weberi Chrtek et Chrtkov, and subsp. velebitica Chrtek et Chrtkov. In addition, a new combination O. halleri Bunge ex Koch subsp. korabensis (Kmmerle et Jv.) Chrtek et Chrtkov is given. /// In dem Artikel sind einige Gebirgsarten aus der Gattung Oxytropis diskutiert. Es sind: Oxytropis urumovii Jv. in Urumov (endemische Art im Pirin Gebirge in Bulgarien); O. dinarica (Murb.) Wettst., die auf Grund der morphologischen Merkmale, besonders der Form der Bltenstnde und der Farbe der Bltter, in drei Unterarten geteilt wurde: subsp. dinarica (mit Verbreitungszentrum in den zentralen Teil von Yugoslawiens), subsp. velebitica Chrtek et Chrtkov (im westlichen Teil von Jugoslawiens, besonders im Velebit Gebirge) und subsp. weberi Chrtek et Chrtkov (im stlichen Teil von Yugoslawiens, in der Umgebung von der Ohrid See und in Gebirgen ar planina und Korab); O. campestris (L.) DC. ist hufig in den stlichen Regionen von den Alpen, aber selten im Balkanischen Halbinsel, wo sie wahrscheinlich nur auf einigen Lokalitten wchst. Am Ende ist eine neue Kombination von Oxytropis halleri Bunge ex Koch subsp. korabensis (Kmmerle et Jv.) Chrtek et Chrtkov eingefhrt. 
4180693| A new species Coronilla moravica (family Fabaceae) is described from the locality aklovy N of Uhersk Brod in E Moravia, Czechoslovakia. 
4180615| Classification of euhemerobic calciphilous pine-communities should be based on studies carried out over an extensive area and for several seasons. The Mal Karpaty Mts. are situated near the northern boundary of the distribution of Pinus nigra and it is mecessary to find the planting time of all Pinus nigra stands. The common use of Ellenberg's "Zeigerwerte der Gefsspflanzen Mitteleuropas" for the ecological evaluation of plant communities in the Western Carpathians Mts. is criticised for several reasons. 
4179618|Snow-land communities in Reykjanes Peninsula are represented by the associations Hylocomio-Salicetum herbaceae, Rhodiolo-Bartsietum alpinae and Rhytidiadelpho-Poetum alpinae, belonging to a new alliance, Antitrichio-Rhodiolion, and by Anthelietum Juratzkanae, Sibbaldio-Salicetum herbaceae and Sibbaldietum procumbentis, belonging to the alliance Salicion herbaceae s. l. Their syntaxonomy and ecology are discussed.
4180415| The study presents chromosome counts of the following species of the genus Juncus from Slovaka: J. sphaerocarpus, J. capitatus, J. subnodulosus, J. atratus, J. alpino-articulatus subsp. alpino-articulatus, J. triglumis, J. castaneus. 
4179429| In this paper, a new Campanula species is described from Eastern Slovakia. Its morphological, distributional and cytological relationships and ecological preferences are briefly discussed and affinity to the other Saxicolae examined. The taxon is characterized by the following features: specific combination of constant morphological characters; diploid chromosome number (2n = 34); ecological specialization to the fissures of limestone and dolomitic rocks; relict occurrence in a small, sharply limited area; very late flowering. Geographically, it appears to be the northernmost representative of the Saxicolae. /// In der Arbeit wird Campanula xylocarpa als eine neue Art der Ser. Saxicolae Witasek aus der Ostslowakei beschrieben und ihre Morphologie, Zytologie, kologie, Verbreitung und systematische Stellung besprochen. Die Art wird folgenderweise charakterisiert: Eine spezifische Kombination morphologischer Merkmale; diploide Chromosomenzahl (2n = 34); kologische Gebundenheit an Kalk- und Dolomitfelsritzen; reliktartiges Vorkommen in einem kleinen Verbreitungsgebiet (siehe Karte); sehr spte Bltezeit. Morphologisch ist die Art besonders durch folgende Merkmale ausgezeichnet: Rhizom verdickt, Stengel steif, aufrecht, kahl, Stengelbltter schmallineal bis fadenfrmig, Bltenstand vielbltig, rispig, Fruchtknoten papills, Kelchzipfel gekrmmt, Kapsel mehr oder minder aufrecht, stark verholzt. 
4181109| The ripened seeds show no marked dormancy and germinate within wide limits of temperature, where the temperatures of 6-10/25C represent the optimum. 18 months old seeds germinated at the temperature of 10/25C by 69% 13 year old seeds did not germinate. This annual winter species reproduces only in the generative way, the seeds sown in the middle of October 1987 and 1988 sprouted at the end of October, and the seedlings with 1-2 pairs of true leaves survived successfully the winter. 
4180795| In a semi-natural, species-rich perennial grassland community (Pulsatillo-Festucetum rupicolae), temporal variation of species composition was studied in permanent plots during secondary succession induced by herbicides selective to dicots and monocots and herbicides of total effect. The effectiveness of using different similarity matrices in detecting vegetation dynamic changes was investigated. Differences caused by treatments in (1), the coenological similarity relations, (2) the direction of secondary succession, (3) the rates of change measured as floristic change (Srensen index) and as change of species cover (Czekanowski's coefficient), (4) the reestablishment of the original state, (5) the seasonal dynamics, (6) the responses to stress situation (drought) have been analysed. The vegetation dynamic processes of the community near stable state were mainly influenced by the differences between years. During the 5 years of study the changes referred to the first sampling date showed a trend induced by changing climatic conditions. In the intact community, seasonal fluctuations can be detected very well. The community rich in species has been proved to be resistant to drought, but resilience referring to its recovery following disturbance was relatively small. After having been drastically disturbed from its dynamically stable state, the grassland community regenerated very slowly. In fact, the community could not recover its original state within five years. The direction and rate of change of the secondary successional and regeneration processes have been determined primarily by the species first occupying the bare ground after herbicide treatment, and the vegetative regeneration of the species present, namely the "competition for space". The main differences between treatments lie in the behaviour of the constituent species in the different coenostates developed following the disturbance. 
4179425| An indirect method for determination of stomata apertures is described. It is based on comparison of two simultaneous curves: the one obtained under natural conditions and the second obtained under standard conditions with minimum air humidity which can be considered as a criterion of stomata apertures. /// Es wurde ein Versuch unternommen, den Tagesgang der Spaltffnungs-bewegungen auf indirektem Wege festzustellen. Die Methode beruht auf einem Vergleich zweier simultaner Tageskurven der Transpiration: und zwar ciner Tageskurve, die unter natrlichen Bedingungen im Bestand ermittelt wurde, und einer zweiten unter Standardbedingungen mit minimaler Luftfeuchtigkeit, was als ein Kriterium der Transpirationsfhigkeit und dadurch als Masstab der Spaltweiten betrachtet werden kann. Die Bestimmung der aktuellen und der Standardtranspiration wurde gravimetrisch durchgefhrt. Beispiele der xerothermen Pflanzen, wie Stipa pulcherrima, S. stenophylla, Teucrium chamaedrys, Salvia nemorosa, Stachys recta und Bromus erectus sind angegeben. 
4179595|The subdivision of Cuscutaceae into 4 genera (Cuscuta L. s. str., Grammica Lour., Monogynella Des Moul., Kadurias Rafin.) is proposed.
4180086| Im Jahre 1974 wurden 9 Phragmites-Bestnde nach der Erntemethode in 7- oder 14tgigem Abstand untersucht. Festgestellt wurden sowohl Dichte, Frisch- und Trockengewicht pro m
4180503|Wild populations from Italy of Vicia hybrida L. and Vicia lutea L. are investigated from the karyological and morphological point of view; in addition to the description of the most important features of the phenotype, the seed coat external ornamentation, as observed under SEM, is shown.
4180294|This paper deals with phytosociological studies of Danish chalk grasslands. These grasslands should be reckoned to a new association, viz. Solidagini-Helictotrichetum pratensis, alliance Mesobromion, class Festuco-Brometea. Two geographically vicarious subassociations could be distinguished. Furthermore attention has been payed to the cryptogams occuring in these grasslands, the influence of dominance of an introduced plant species on the species diversity, and the changes during the last decades in species composition as well as in area of the chalk grasslands in Denmark.
4180965| Four profiles were sampled from three mires situated near the town of Svtl nad Szavou in the western forland of the Bohemian-Moravian Uplands. The sites were studied pollen analytically. In one of the profiles macroscopic analyses were also carried out. The aim of the analyses performed was to provide data for reconstructing the vegetational evolution in the area under study. A survey of vegetation changes from the Late Glacial (Allerd) up to the present was obtained. Special attention was devoted to the composition of original forest stands and to their changes due to the impact of man. The results were compared with the conclusions of the geobotanical reconstruction mapping, of forest-type mapping, of the biogeographical mapping, and of archives of forest records. 
4180526|Present paper deals with 20 species of the genus Artemisia occurring in the North-West Himalaya. Chromosome counts are given for 18 species (for 3 species for the first time). Two new species, A. banihalensis (A. roxburghiana agg.) and A. cashemirica (A. parviflora agg.), are described.
4180775| Here 13 species of the non-foliicolous species of the lichen family Ectolechiaceae Zahlbr. em. Haf. are reported, which were found in a collection from Brazil. Six species are described as new: Badimia corticola (sp. n.), Calopadia isidiosa (sp. n.), C. psoromoides (sp. n.), C. subfusca (sp. n.), Tapellaria corticola (sp. n.), and T. schindleri (sp. n.). Seven species have been identified with earlier described species: Calopadia chaconsis (Malme) comb. n. (= Lopadium chaconse Malme), C. foliicola (Fe) Vzda, C. fusca (Mll. Arg.) Vzda, C. lecanorella (Nyl.) comb. n. C. perpallida (Nyl.) Vzda, C. phyllogena (Mll. Arg.) Vzda, and Tapellaria epiphylla (Mll. Arg.) Sant. A key and illustrations for all studied species are provided, and the nomenclatural problem of the correct generic name of the Pyrenotrichum Mont. (anamorph) for Calopadia Vzda or Tapellaria Sant. (teleomorphs) are discussed. /// Anknpfend an eine Studie ber die - erweiterte - Familie Ectolechiaceae Zahlbr. (em. Hafellner, em. Vzda 1986), die nach bisheriger Kenntnis berwiegend nur foliicole Arten erhalten hatte, werden in der vorliegender Arbeit 13 corticole Arten der Familie aus Brasilien behandelt. Secht davon werden neu beschrieben, nmlich Badimia corticola sp. n., Calopadia isidiosa sp. n., C. psoromoides sp. n., C. subfusca sp. n., Tapellaria corticola sp. n., T. schindleri sp. n. Sieben Arten werden mit schon frher in anderen Gattungen beschriebenen identifiziert; die notwendigen Neukombinationen werden gegeben. Alle behandelten Arten werden geschlsselt und illustriert. Das Typenmaterial von Pyrenotrichum splitgerberi Montagne - selbst Typus der Gattung Pyrenotrichum Montagne 1834 - wurde nher untersucht. Pyrenotrichum besitzt nach Art. 59/1 des Codes Prioritt allen nomina generica der Ectolechiaceae gegenber. Wegen des speziellen Konidientypus von P. splitgerberi - die Konidien sind sichelfrmig, gewunden und querseptiert - kommen aber nur 2 Gattungen als jngere Synonyme in Frage, nmlich Calopadia Vzda und Tapellaria Mll. Arg. em. R. Sant., welche beide hnlich gestaltete Konidien in ihren Anamorphen besitzen. Weil sich aber die Konidien des Typen-materials von Pyrenotrichum splitbergeri sich mit keinem Anamorph einer der bisher bekanntgewordenen Calopadia- und Tapellaria-Arten identifizieren lsst, bleibt der Name nach dem jetzigen Kenntnisstand nicht verwendbar. 
4181539|This is a first approximation to a Conspectus of classes of European vegetation. European vegetation consists, according to the present scheme, of 73 classes. An attempt was made to compile all available names of classes which have ever appeared in European phytosociological literature. The names were checked for nomenclatural accuracy. Lists of synonyms and related names are given. The classes are characterised by a brief diagnosis, a comprehensive list of diagnostic species, and a list of basic references. Several syntaxonomic problems are discussed in the form of short notes.
4179948|A computer programme is proposed for evaluating sucrose-inversion temperature measurements. The exponential and arithmetic mean temperatures as well as sums of temperatures are computed by two alternative procedures. A calculation of the final rotation angle of the inverted sucrose solution is proposed instead of direct estimation.
4179746| Imperatoria ostruthium gehrt im Gebirge Orlick hory (Adlergebirge) zu den allochthonen Arten. Es ist sehr wahrscheinlich, dass sie hier von deutsch sprechenden Ansiedlern anfangs des 17. Jahrhunderts eingefhrt wurde, besonders im Zusammenhang mit der sog. Alpenholzhauer-Kolonisation. Als gezogene und verwildernde Heilpflanze verbreitete sie sich im Bereich der damaligen Holzhauersiedlungen, kleiner Bergwirtschaften sowie in den Siedlungen der weiteren Umgebung von Glas- und Hammerhtten, die im 17. und 18. Jahrhundert, in einigen Fllen noch im 19. Jahrhundert, in Betrieb waren. /// The paper deals with the relation between the settlement history and the distribution of Imperatoria ostruthium L. in the Orlick hory mountains (NE. Bohemia). Imperatoria ostruthium belongs to the allochthonous species in the Orlick hory mountains. Its recent distribution is illustrated in Fig. 1. The continuous settlement process at higher altitutes of the Orlick hory in the main started as late as during the second half of the 16th and especially in the first half of the 17th century. In connection with the enormous development of logging for the use of the Bohemian inland, both in the mountains and in the foothills numerous glassworks were set up, iron ores were mined and iron was produced (see Fig. 2). The stream of German-speaking craftsmen, lumber workers and herdsmen coming predominantly from the former county of Kodzko (Poland) increased. A significant reinforcement of the German immigration into the central part of the mountain range come with the colonization by lumber workers from the Alps. At beginning of the 17th lumber workers from the eastern part of the Krkonoe (Giant Mountains), who originally came from the Alps, were brought to the Orlick hory. The regions influenced by this colonization (see Fig. 2) as well as the environs of glass and iron works which were active through the 17th, 18th and in some cases up to the 19th century, conform conspicuously to the regions of the most intensive accumulation of localities of I. ostruthium. Therefore it may be assumed that this species was introduced into the Orlick hory mountains by German-speaking settlers at the beginning of the 17th century. As a favourite medicinal plant of all-round use it was cultivated in the lumber workers' hamlets, in the settlements around the glass and iron works and round little mountain farmsteads especially in the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries. It escaped from cultivation and has become a permanent part of the vegetation in the vicinity of both present and former settlement. 
4181183|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1990 454 names have been listed. For each one of them, a first appreciation about its validity is given relating to the Code of Nomenclature. 8 names are given in addition to the Index 1987 (Theurillat and Moravec 1990), 9 to the Index 1988 (Theurillat and Moravec 1991) and 4 to Index 1989 (Theurillat and Moravec 1992).
4179967|Studies of the Adjarian flora resulted in a detailed classification of the ergasiophygophytes, based mainly on the degree of their naturalization: (1) The ephemeroergasiophygophytes display unstable naturalization both in artificial and natural habitats, and disappear after only a few growing seasons. (2) The deuteroergasiophygophytes show stable naturalization in anthropogenic habitats. (3) The protoergasiophygophytes are distinguished by uncertain stability of naturalization in natural habitats, and, if firmly naturalized on a certain spot, they lack any tendency to further spreading. (4) The autergasiophygophytes tend to spread in natural habitats. (5) The aggressive ergasiophygophytes transform natural vegetation in new plant communities, and can become dominant species in these communities. New terms, viz. emphemeroxenophytes, protoneophytes, non-aggressive neophytes, slightly aggressive neophytes, and postneophytes with vegetative reproduction have also been introduced to express diverse features of the xenophytes.
4181318|Two new associations belonging to the Salicion silesiacae within the Betulo carpaticae-Alnetea viridis are described. These are disclimax shrub communities dominated by Salix silesiaca at higher altitudes of the Fatra Mts. (Western Carpathians). Synmorphological, synecological, syntaxonomical, syngenetical and synchorological characteristics of the communities are given. Floristic differences between the montane shrub communities in the Western Carpathians and those in the Sudeten Mts. are summarized in a synthetic table.
4181521|A taxonomic revision of the Hieracium alpinum group (sensu Flora Europaea) in the Sudeten Mts., the West and the Ukrainian East Carpathians is provided. Six species are distinguished in the area studied, viz. Hieracium alpinum, H. halleri, H. augusti-bayeri, H. melanocephalum, H. tubulosum, and H. schustleri. H. alpinum occurs throughout the mountain ranges studied, three other taxa are endemic to the Sudeten Mts. (H. melanocephalum, H. tubulosum, H. schustleri), one is confined to the West Carpathians (H. halleri, in addition to the Alps) and one is endemic to the Ukrainian East Carpathians (H. augusti-bayeri). A diploid cytotype (2n=18) was ascertained in H. alpinum from the Ukrainian East Carpathians and the same chromosome number was found for H. augusti-bayeri. An agamospermous mode of reproduction was confirmed for the triploid cytotype of H. alpinum, the triploid H. melanocephalum and H. halleri and the tetraploids H. tubulosum and H. schustleri; the diploid taxa were found to be sexual. Pollen production in diploid taxa is high and pollen grains are homogeneous in size; triploid species, as well as tetraploid H. tubulosum, do not produce pollen; tetraploid H. schustleri has pollen grains of variable size. Data on the ecology and distribution of the species are also given.
4180706|A study was made of the morphological variation in seven population samples of B. glacialis. Data on quantitative and qualitative characters reveal that one of the populations differs considerably from the rest. Observations on geographical distribution show that this species is not endemic to the peaks of Sierra Nevada but far more widely distributed than previously realized. Two varieties of B. glacialis, one of which is new, are described.
4179519| The author describes a new genus of the family Thelypteridaceae based on the species Polypodium limbospermum All.; the genus includes two species only. The morphological characterization of the genus and its delimitation, especially in relation to the genus Thelypteris Schmidel, is given and comments are made on the nomenclatural problems regarding especially the nomenclature of the generic name Thelypteris Schmidel 1762. Besides description of the genus Oreopteris Holub and two new nomenclatural combinations for its species - O. limbosperma (All.) Holub and O. quelpaertensis (Christ) Holub - the combination Thelypteris palustris Schott subsp. pubescens (Lawson) Holub is also proposed. /// Die Familie Thelypteridaceae Ching ist sehr reich an Arten (um 900 Arten); ihre Einteilung in natrliche Gattungen ist sehr schwierig nicht nur in Hinsicht auf diese grosse Artenzahl, aber auch wegen der netzartigen Variabilitt und wahrscheinlichen Konvergenzerscheinungen. Eine von natrlichen Gruppen in dem weitumfassenden Inhalt der Familie Thelypteridaceae stellt die Gruppe von zwei Arten aus dem Umkreis von Thelypteris limbosperma (All.) H. P. Fuchs vor, welche sich von den anderen Gruppen durch die Garnitur der Merkmale von verschiedenen Teilen der Pflanze unterscheidet, am besten durch die Merkmale des Wurzelstockes, der Bltter, der Nervatur, der Spreuschuppen, durch die Stellung der Sporenbehlterhufchen, usw. Weil eine eingehende Analyse der Nomenklatur zeigte, dass es keinen Namen fr diesbezgliche Gruppe in der taxonomischen Rangstufe der Gattung gibt, wird Oreopteris als ein neuer Gattungsname vorgeschlagen, der von dem oft gebrauchten und gut bekannten Epitheton der Typus-Art abgeleitet ist. Die Gattung Oreopteris Holub schliesst nur zwei Arten ein - O. limbosperma (All.) Holub and O. quelpaertensis (Christ) Holub. Bei der Lsung der nomenklatorischen Problematik musste eine grndliche Revision der Gltigkeit des Namens Thelypteris Schmidel 1762 durchgefhrt werden, auf Grund deren der Autor diesen Gattungsnamen als einen gltig verffentlichten anerkennt; zugleich mussten auch die Probleme der Typisierung dieses Gattungsnamens gelst werden. Der Autor neigt zur Typisierung mit der Art Thelypteris palustris Schott und zugleich schlgt er vor, diese Typus-Art des Gattungsnamens Thelypteris Schmidel 1762 zu schtzen. In der Gattung Thelypteris Schmidel 1762 wurde auch eine neue nomenklatorische Kombination vorgeschlagen, und zwar Thelypteris palustris Schott subsp. pubescens (Lawson) Holub fr die Pflanzen dieser Art, die in Nord Amerika vorkommen. 
4179560|Acht neue Taxa und dreizehn nomenklatorische Kombinationen innerhalb der Familie Gyalectaceae werden vorgeschlagen.
4179427| Lysimachia nemorum ist eine in der Slowakei und in den ganzen Karpaten unregelmssig vorkommende Art; dort ist gleichzeitig auch der Auslufer ihres subatlantischen Areals. Sie ist meistens an die Kammgebiete der ganzen Karpaten, in Buchenwldern, gebunden, vorwiegend ausserhalb von Kalkstein und optimal in Lagen von 550 bis 950 m. . d. M., nur selten hher. Ihre ganze Verbreitung in der Slowakei und in den Karpaten ist wahrscheinlich ein Abbild der klimatischen Bedingungen, die sich hier in der ganzen Formung des Areals widerspiegeln. /// In the region of Slovakia, Lysimachia nemorum is most frequent in the Western Beskyds, the downs of Kysuca and, mainly in the mountain ranges of ergovsk Pohorie, Ondavsk Vrchovina and Nzk Poloniny. Less frequently it appears in the group of Pilsko and Babia Gora, in the mountain ranges of Mal Fatra, Oravsk Magura, Liptovsk Hole, Belansk Tatry, Spisk Magura and Pieniny. In addition, though rare, it is known from the Bl Karpaty and the Velk Fatra and some solitary specimens come from Mal Karpaty, the mountain ranges of Vtnk and Spisk Rudoho. The irregulatity of the distribution is due to the subatlantic character of the total distribution area and to the more continental features of the climatic conditions of the above regions. The same applies to the distribution throughout the Carpathian range. 
4180173| Im Verlauf einiger Jahre wurde die Keimungskologie der Frchte von Dipsacus sylvestris Huds., Dipsacus laciniatus L., Cephalaria transsylvanica (L.) Schrad. ex Roem. et Schult., Virga strigosa (Willd. ex Roem. et Schult.) Holub und Virga pilosa (L.) Hill im Laboratorium und auf einer Versuchsparzelle in Pruhonice studiert. Durch Versuche mit mehreren Fruchtproben wurde festgestellt, dass die Frchte der Arten Dipsacus sylvestris, Dipsacus laciniatus und Cephalaria transsylvanica ohne Samenruhe keimen knnen, whrend die Frchte von Virga strigosa und Virga pilosa ene tiefere Samenruhe durchmachen, die durch den physiologischen Zustand des Keimes verursacht ist. Die Dormanz wurde nur in der Erde oder bei kalter Stratifikation unterbrochen. Weiter wurden bei einzelnen Arten verschiedene Beobachtungen und Versuche ber Phnologie der Keimpflanzen, die Schwimmfhigkeit der Frchte und Disseminationzeit der Frchte durchgefhrt. /// The germination ecology of 5 species of the family Dipsacaceae was investigated over several years. It was found that under favourable conditions Dipsacus sylvestris, Dipsacus laciniatus, and Cephalaria transsylvanica were able to germinate without diapause within various limits of temperatures, while the fruits of Virga strigosa and Virga pilosa passed through a deeper dormancy, which could be interrupted only by cold stratification (betweed +1 and +8 C) for several months. In Virga pilosa, germination started between the 86th and 126th days, and the largest number of fruits germinated between the 4th and 6th months after the beginning of stratification. In Virga strigosa, germination started between the 49th and 103rd days, and the largest number of fruits germinted between the 3rd and 6th months. The deeper dormancy of V. strigosa has already been pointed out (Lhotsk 1968b). All five species under study have a big, well-differentiated embryo in their fruits which fills almost the whole seed and which does not show any further development until the start of germination. In Virga strigosa and V. pilosa dormancy is caused by the physiological state of the embryo. In both species dissemination is tachysporous which contributes favourably to the fact that most seeds are able to overcome the dormancy as early as the next growing season. Kinochory and boleochory are the most important types of dissemination. All species under study can also be distributed by nautochory. The fruits of four species are specifically light. The fruits of Virga strigosa float on water for several hours thanks to the air bublles clinging to their surface. All species (especially Dipsacus sylvestris and D. laciniatus) can also be distributed by endochory, first of all by the birds. The synanthropic species are also distributed by various forms of human activity. 
4180004|The submerged aquatic vascular vegetation was studied in the Finger Lakes and in two bays of Lake Ontario in northern New York State, U.S.A. The species composition, structure and biomass of the communities are related to the principal habitat factors such as trophic status of the lakes, bottom slope and substrate, current and stream effects, and depth. A record of the development of changes in the trophic status of the lakes and in the species composition of their submerged vascular vegetation is outlined. An attempt is made to assess the effects of catastrophic events (floods and cloudbursts in the watershed) on the lake vegetation.
4179909|Data on standing crop of litter, litter production and disappearance in three alluvial meadow plant communities are presented. The influence of ecological conditions and quality of litter on litter decomposition rate, and the chemical changes of litter during decomposition are described.
4180335| Die phytoznologische Variabilitt und die Verbreitung des Aceri-Carpinetum wurden aufgrund von Analyse und Synthese eines umfangreichen Aufnahmenmaterials festgestellt. Das Aceri-Carpinetum umfasst Schuttwlder der Eichen-Hainbuchenwald-Stufe auf das gegliederte Relief der Fluss- und Bachtler gebunden; es ist auf kologisch adquaten Standorten des Hochlandes esk vysoina (Bhmisches Hochland) und des Aussenkarpaten-Systems verbreitet. Diese Assoziation wird in vier Subassoziationen gegliedert, u. zw. Aceri-Carpinetum aegopodietosum, Aceri-Carpinetum aconitetosum vulpariae, Aceri-Carpinetum abietetosum und Aceri-Carpinetum festucetosum altissimae. /// The association Aceri-Carpinetum Klika 1941 represents the edaphically and mesoclimatically conditioned scree woods of the Carpinion belt, occurring mainly on steep, shaded slopes of the narrow river valley of the Bohemian Massif. The tree layer is characterised by a rich and constant occurrence of Acer pseudo-platanus, A. platanoides, Ulmus glabra, Tilia platyphyllos and Fraxinus excelsior. Of the climax trees Carpinus betulus and locally also Quercus petraea and Q. robur grow in this association. Fagus sylvatica occurs occasionally in narrow canyons in which temperature inversion takes place, or on the transition to the submontane beech belt. The herb layer is rich in species and is composed mainly of the Fagetalia character species. The differential species group of the Aceri-Carpinetum versus the Mercuriali-Fraxinetum is composed of Campanula rapunculoides, Stellaria holostea, Galium sylvaticum and Hepatica nobilis. The shrub layer has a very small cover, the moss synusia is distributed only on rocks and stones. The phytosociological variability of the association in various parts of Czechoslovakia (Czech Socialist Republic) is documented by a synoptic table of published sets of relevs (239 relevs) as well as by the author's unpublished relevs (42 relevs). The association is divided into four subassociations. Aceri-Carpinetum aegopodietosum Klika 1941 em. Husov - represents the typical subassociation, which is negatively characterised; the differential species groups of the other subassociations are absent. It is distributed on base rich igneous rocks as well as on crystalline silicate rocks, containing larger quantities of mineral nutrient reserves. The centre of its distribution in Bohemia is in dissected narrow valleys in the hills of the Berounka valley, in Moravia in the hills of Adamovsk vrchovina, especially in the canyon of the river Svitava. The soil of the later developemental steges of this subassociation is mull-like ranker or ranker-braunerde; of the more nature stage, eutrophic braunerde. All these soils usually contain many rocks and stones. The rhizosphere in rich in bases, with very good nitrifying power; the humus formation is favourable. Aceri-Carpinetum aconitetosum vulpariae Husov is confined to the limestones of karst areas; it occurs in esk and Moravsk kras and Pavlovsk vrchy. It is characterised by differential species such as Cornus mas, Berberis vulgaris, Viola mirabilis, Primula veris, Aconitum vulparia, Bupleurum falcatum, B. longifolium, Melittis melissophyllum, Lathyrus niger and Polygonatum odoratum. In the moss layer species confined to calcareous rocks predominate, for instance Anomodon attenuatus, A. viticulosus, Camptothecium lutescens and Cteniduum molluscum. The soil type of this subassociation is young rendsina very rich in humus, having usually high stone and rock content in the A horizon, which increases strongly with depth. These soils are rich in calcium carbonate, and have a good decompostion and humification; the humus form is rendsina mulllike moder. The subassociations described have two geographically conditioned variants: typical variant, which occurs in the hilly land of the Berounka bazin (incl. esk kras) and the variant with Euonymus verrucosa, occurring in the hilly land Brnnsk vrchovina (incl. Moravsk kras) and Pavlovsk vrchy. The variant with Euonymus verrucosa is characterised by a group of Carpathian migrants such as Euonymus verrucosa, Isopyrum thalictroides, Euphorbia amygdaloides, Geranium phaeum and Glechoma hirsuta. Aceri-Carpinetum abietetosum (Mikyka 1952) Husov - occurs on the margin of the distribution area of the Carpinion communities. In warmer habitats the tree layer is dominated by Tilia cordata, in colder and moister ones by T. platyphyllos. Abies alba accedes with a high constancy, Carpinus betulus on the contrary decreases or is entirely absent. This subassociation has been found on silicate crystalline rocks in the narrow upper parts of such river valleys as the Vltava, Lunice, Stela and Orlice. It occupies shady slopes with soils belonging to ranker-braunerde or to a mesotrophic variant of braunerde with high skeleton content. Aceri-Carpinetum festucetosum altissimae Klika 1959 - represents a locally conditioned community, documented by a small number of relevs only. This subassociation prefers valleys with temperature inversion, where it is localized almost entirely on semiconvex to convex parts of shady slopes in silicate soils. Some communities form a transition to submontane beech forests. In the tree layer Fagus sylvatica and Abies alba often grow; the physiognomy of the herb layer is dominated by Festuca altissima. The soils of this subassociation belong to ranker-braunerde or to the mesotrophic variant of the braunerde. The A horizon of these soils is only moderately rich in bases. Aceri-Carpinetum festucetosum altissimae has been found in the hilly land Kivokltsk vrchovina and Beneovsk pahorkatina. 
4179944| Problems of generic names which become nomenclaturally superfluous by inclusion of the type of an earlier generic name are discussed on the basis of the change of Art. 63 of the Code adopted in Leningrad. The author disagrees with the restriction of illegitimity in generic names and discusses briefly some points associated with these questions (breach of horizontal relation of names; violation of relations between taxonomy and nomenclature; violation of the long used principle of superfluity; warranty of the principle of superfluity; competence of the taxonomic approach to the solution of problems of superfluity; scanty knowledge of names of infrageneric taxa; problems of linking basionymic infrageneric names to corresponding generic names; different views on the validity of various types of indirect reference; problems of lectotypification; inconsistencies in the text of the Code). In connection with the preparation of an account of perennial oats for "Flora Europaea" the author was, however, compelled to accept Avenula (Dumort. 1824) Dumort. 1868 instead of Avenochloa Holub 1962; 30 new nomenclatural combinations resulted from this unnecessary change in the Code. /// Der Gegenstand dieses Artikels liegt in der Diskussion der Problematik der berflssigen Gattungsnamen im Zusammenhang mit Art. 63 des Kodes. Ansichten ber die berflssigkeit der Namen entwickelten sich im Laufe der Zeit und vernderten sich von ursprnglich rein taxonomischem Zutritt (bereinstimmende taxonomische Umgrenzung) zur Aufnahme der berflssigkeit, gegrndet auf das Einschliessen des Typus eines frher verffentlichten gltigen Namens. In neuerer Zeit wurde die berflssigkeit der Namen vom Charakter der nomenklatorischen Kombinationen in solchen Fllen beschrnkt, wenn das Epitheton des Basionyms der Kombination legitim war. Diese Ausnahme wurde in Leningrad auch auf die Gattungsnamen und Namen oberhalb des Gattungsniveaus ausgebreitet. Flogerungen dieser Aktion sind bisher nicht bekannt; gem einem konkreten Fall - der erzwungenen Ersetzung des Gattungsnamens Avenochloa durch Avenula, der im Artikel ausfhrlich beschrieben ist, zeigen sich die Ergebnisse eher als negativ. Der Autor stimmt der Einschrnkung der Illegitimitt der berflssigen Namen nicht zu und diskutiert verschiedene Punkte der fraglichen Problematik. Er nimmt als berechtigt an, die Probleme der berflssigkeit von Namen in einzelnen Rangstufen zu lsen, nmlich unterschiedlich bei den horizontalen und bei den vertikalen Verschiebungen. Von 2 nomenklatorischen Typen unter einem Gattungsnamen sollte man den Vorzug dem geben, der in der gegebenen Rangstufe Zeitprioritt aufweist. Das Prinzip der berflssigkeit der Namen geht aus der taxonomischen Seite des Studiums hervor und hat seinen Platz in der nomenklatorischen Praxis schon seit einer langen Zeit; die Beziehung zwischen Taxonomie und Nomenklatur wrde durch seine Aufhebung wesentlich gestrt. Das Unterscheiden von einer nomenklatorischen (homotypischen, obligaten) und einer taxonomischen (heterotypischen, fakultativen) berflssigkeit der Namen ist in der Praxis nicht berechtigt. Die Auffassung der berflssigen Namen als illegitime Namen dauert in der botanischen Nomenklatur seit der Zeit des Einfhrens des Priorittsprinzips an. Neben der Typusmethode sollte fr die Bestimmung der berflssigen Namen als eine ihr gleichwertige Methode auch die Umgrenzungsmethode bentzt werden. Manche Schwierigkeiten knnen vom Fakt folgen, da die Namen der infragenerischen Taxa, die als Basionyme der Gattungsnamen gelten knnen, nur unvollkommen bekannt sind (ihr nomenklatorischer Charakter, Typisierung). Die Verbindung zwischen den infragenerischen Basionymen und den Gattungsnamen kann manchmal auch indirekt sein und unterschiedliche Anschauungen auf die Berechtigkeit der verschiedenen Arten der indirekten Hinweise knnen existieren. Whrend der Lektotypisierung der Gattungsnamen wird es ntig sein, die Problematik von allen Namen der verwandten Taxa (Namen von infragenerischen Taxa inbegriffen) zu bercksichtigen, damit die nderungen von einem rein nomenklatorischen Charakter in der Zukunft vermeiden werden knnten. Im Text des Kodes sollte der Termin "incorrect" definiert werden, wie auch die Umstnde der Vernderung des nicht korrekten Namens zu einem korrekten Namen nher bestimmt werden. In Fllen von taxonomischen Einschrnkungen sollten die Namen der betreffenden Taxa immer in einer emendierten Form angegeben werden. Fr die Lsung der Problematik des Art. 63 sollte eine spezielle Kommission errichtet werden, die die Vorschlge fr den nchsten Kongress vorbereiten sollte. Die nderungen des Kodes sollten immer sehr bedchtig durchgefhrt werden, damit die Namen, die nach dem Wortlaut einer Ausgabe des Kodes vorgeschlagen wurden, nicht in einer kurzen Zeit nach dem Wortlaut der nchsten Ausgabe des Kodes verndert werden mssten; dies gilt hauptschlich fr die Gattungsnamen, nach deren Ersetzungen oft viele nderungen der Artennamen folgen mssen. Aufgrund der nderung des Kodes in Leningrad ist es jetzt ntig, den Namen Avenochloa Holub 1962, der in bereinstimmung mit den Regeln des Kodes vorgeschlagen wurde, durch den Namen Avenula (Dumort.) Dumort. 1868 zu ersetzen, wenn auch der letzte Name taxonomisch mit Helictotrichon Bess. 1827 vollkommen identisch und auch immer nomenklatorisch berflssig ist. Diese nderung ist hier zwar als unberechtigt angenommen, aber in Hinsicht auf die Notwendigkeit der Bearbeitung dieser Gattung fr die "Flora Europaea" (die den Kod in seinem ganzen Umfang streng anerkennt) in einem begrenzten Zeitraum, mu die angefhrte nderung des Gattungsnamens leider angenommen werden. In dem Text des Artikels sind die gegenseitigen Verhltnisse der Gattungsnamen Helictotrichon, Avenula und Avenochloa beschrieben, dann ist die Analyse der Artennamen, die bisher unter dem Gattungsnamen Avenula verffentlicht wurden, durchgefhrt (sie werden von illegitimen Namen jetzt korrekte Namen) wie auch die Vorschlge von neuen nomenklatorischen Kombinationen gegeben (1 fr Untergattung, 2 fr Sektionen, 23 fr Arten und 4 fr Unterarten). Zu 7 Taxa sind kurze Notizen ber Probleme ihrer Taxonomie oder Nomenklatur beigefgt. 
4180297| Species of the genus Veronica L. sect. Beccabunga (Hill) Dumort. were studied in Egypt. Key, description, taxonomic notes, and phytocartograms of the following taxa are given: V. anagalloides Guss. subsp. taeckholmiorum Chrtek et Osbornov-Kosinov, V. catenata Pennell subsp. pseudocatenata Chrtek et Osbornov-Kosinov, V. anagallis-aquatica L., V. kaiseri Tckholm V. in Laurent-Tckholm et Drar, and V. scardica Griseb. subsp. africana Chrtek et Osbornov-Kosinov. V. scardica Griseb. was misidentified previously as V. beccabunga L., which, as the study reveals, does not occur in Egypt. 
4181558| Several textbooks of phytocoenology (plant sociology) are compared. There seems to be a basic difference between Russian and Central European authors. The Russian authors (Naumova, Rabotnov) devote substantial parts of their textbooks to functional elements of communities (populations and consortias) and to their interactions. On the other hand, the Central European authors (Dieren, Dierschke, Moravec) devote a lot of space to methodology of community description. They deal with classification, syntaxonomy and mapping; their view of communities as units enables them to treat the relation to habitat factors extensively. 
4179544| In der vorgelegten Arbeit wird die syntaxonomische Problematik der natrlichen und naturnahen nitrophilen Saumgesellschaften der Verbnde Convolvulion sepium Tx. ex Oberd. 49 und Petasition officinalis Sillinger 33 em. Kopeck hoc loco gelst. Die znologische Charakteristik beider Verbnde erforderte bestimmte nderungen in der Abgrenzung der bergeordneten Vegetationseinheiten: Die Aufteilung der ursprnglichen Klasse Artemisietea vulgaris Lohm., Prsg. et Tx. 50 ist unvermeidlich. Die nitrophilen Gesellschaften auf feuchten bis frischen Bden, die frher zusammen mit den kologisch und znologisch sehr abweichenden Ruderalgesellschaften der Ordnung Onopordetalia Br.-Bl. et Tx. 43 em. Grs 66 in die Klasse Artemisietea vulgaris eingereiht wurden, sind neu in die gengend abgegrenzte Klasse Galio-Urticetea Passarge 67 em. Kopeck hoc loco eingegliedert. Nach der vorgeschlagenen Gliederung umfasst diese Klasse vier Ordnungen: 1. Convolvuletalia sepium Tx. 50 mit dem Verband Convolvulion sepium Tx. ex Oberd. 49, - [2.(?) Circaeo-Stachyetalia Passarge 67] - 3. Petasito-Chaerophylletalia Morariu 67 mit dem Verband Petasition officinalis Sillinger 33 em. Kopeck hoc loco, - 4. Lamio (albi) - Chenopodietalia (boni-henrici) ordo nova, die mehrere Einheitengruppen anthropisch bedingter nitrophiler Ersatzgesellschaften enthlt. In Bhmen, Mhren und der Westslowakei gehrt zu dem Convolvulion sepium-Verband nur eine einzige Gebietsassoziation, u. zw. das Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium Tx. 47 em. Kopeck hoc loco mit zwei Subassoziationen: Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium typicum subass. nova und Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium aristolochietosum subass. nova. - Der Verband Petasition officinalis Sillinger 33 em. Kopeck umfasst folgende vikarisierende Assoziationen: das westmitteleuropische Petasitetum hybridi Oberd. 49 em. Kopeck hoc loco, das karpatische Petasitetum officinalis-glabrati Sillinger 33 und das Petasito-Telekietum speciosae Morariu 67, das ausschliesslich in den ostslowakischen, ostpolnischen, sowjetischen und rumnischen Karpaten verbreitet ist. /// The nitrophilous marginal communities (German term "Saumgesellschaften") treated in the present paper are placed in the alliances Convolvulion sepium Tx. ex Oberd. 49 and Petasition officinalis Sillinger 33 em. Kopeck hoc loco. The Czechoslovak natural communities of the alliance Convolvulion sepium are determined by the following character species: Convolvulus sepium (opt.), Cuscuta europaea (opt.), Cuscuta lupuliformis, Cucubalus baccifer, Senecio fluviatilis, (Galega officinalis). In the Czechoslovakia, there occurs only one association: Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium Tx. 47 em. Kopeck hoc loco. It contains two subassociations: 1. the Northwest-Central European subass. Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium typicum and 2. the Southeast-European subass. Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium aristolochietosum. The communities Petasition officinalis Sillinger 33 em. Kopeck hoc loco are characterized by the following character species: Aconitum variegatum, Agropyrum caninum (opt.), Petasites hybridus (opt.), Petasites kablikianus, Orobanche flava and Telekia speciosa. In Bohemia, Moravia and Western Slovakia two associations occur, viz. Petasitetum hybridi Oberd. 49 em. Kopeck hoc loco (including two subassociations) and Petasitetum officinalis-glabrati Sillinger 33 (including two subassociations). The third association of the alliance, Petasito-Telekietum speciosae Morariu 67, occurs in Czechoslovakia only in the East-Slovakian Carpathians. The place of the units described in the recent phytocenological system: The splitting of the class Artemisietea vulgaris Lohm., Prsg. et Tx. 50 seems to be necessary and correct. According to the original description this class includes the group of ruderal communities occurring at dry and intensively insolated habitats (order Onopordetalia Br.-Bl. et Tx. 43 em. Grs 66) and the groups of nitrophilous communities growing at moist to fresh, shady to insolated habitats. The present paper transfers these last-mentioned community-units to the class Galio-Urticetea Passarge 67 em. Kopeck hoc loco. According to the systematic arrangement suggested here (see page 250), this class includes two groups: A. The group of natural to semi-natural marginal communities with the orders Convolvuletalia sepium Tx. 50 (with the alliance Convolvulion sepium) and [(?) Circaeo-Stachyetalia Passarge 67] and Petasito-Chaerophylletalia Morariu 67 (with the alliance Petasition officinalis); - B. The group of ruderal to semi-ruderal nitrophilous substitute communities which are identical with the new defined order Lamio (albi) - Chenopodietalia (boni-henrici). 
4179439| The paper presents the results of pollen analyses of samples collected from two peat localities in the Orlick hory mountains in Czechoslovakia. Appended pollen diagrams depict the vegetation and its changes in the Older and Younger Subatlantic period. The paper suggests the probable proportional representation of the principal woody plants in the area and, on the basis of pollen analyses, reconstructs the forest covers of the Orlick hory, especially of their upper regions. The author has found Fagus to have predominated among woody plants in the area (even in the upper regions) in the Older Subatlantic. From the 16th or 17th century onward it was gradually replaced by Picea. This change was primarily due to human activity (cutting down of the beeches). The composition of foot-hill forests, as far as it is reflected in the diagrams, is discussed. The pollen diagrams also testify to agricultural activity by man in the wide surroundings of the Orlick hory. /// In der Arbeit werden Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen zweier Torfprofile aus den Gebirgskmmen des Gebirges Orlick hory (Tschechoslowakei) vorgelegt. Die erzielten Diagramme umfassen die jngste Zeitperiode des Postglazials, d. h. das ltere und jngere Subatlantikum. Es wurde festgestellt, dass hnlich wie in den brigen Sudeten auch im Gebirge Orlick hory die Buche als kennzeichnende Pflanze wuchs, die zusammen mit der Tanne und der Fichte Mischwlder auch in hchsten Berglagen bildete. In diesem Zeitabschnitt kann eine selbstndige, klimatish bedingte Fichtenstufe pollenanalytisch nicht bewiesen werden und man kann voraussetzen, dass die Fichtenbestnde nur einen Saum um die Moorlager bildeten oder dass sie die vernssten Bden bewuchsen. Zur Umwandlung der ursprnglichen Buchen-Tannenwlder mit der Fichte in die heutigen Fichtenwlder - welche stellenweise einen natrlichen Charakter aufweisen - kam es hchstwahrscheinlich an der Wende des XVI-XVII Jhdts, und zwar vor allem durch menschliche Eingriffe (Ausrodung der Buche fr die Htten- und Glaswerke und der Tanne als Bauholz). Die nachfolgende Expansion der Fichte wurde dann auch durch das in diesem Zeitabschnitt rauher gewordene Klima gefrdert. In der jngsten Zeit ist die Ausbreitung der Fichte auch durch die einseitige Einstellung der Waldzchtung bedingt. Aus den Diagrammen gehen auch einige Erkenntnisse ber die Waldzusammensetzung in Vorgebirgslagen hervor, in denen die Eiche, die Hainbuche und die Linde, ferner als Beimischung bestimmt Pinus, Fagus and Abies, eine fhrende Rolle spielten. Die Pollenanalysen geben auch ein Bild ber die landwirtschaftliche Ttigkeit des Menschen in verschiedenen Etappen nach der Ansiedlung. Man drfte vermuten, dass in der ersten Zeit ausser des Ackerbaues auch die Weidewirtschaft ein wichtiger Faktor der Landwirtschaft war, welcher erst spter dem Getreideanbau wich. Ferner wurde bewiesen, dass frher einige Kulturpflanzen (Weinrebe, Fagopyrum, u. a.) angebaut wurden, die heute im Gebirge Orlick hory nicht mehr gezchtet werden. 
4180708| Red and blue flowered pimpernels commonly referred to Anagallis arvensis s. l. were studied in Egypt, Iraq, and adjacent territories. Key, description, taxonomic, chorological, ecological notes, and phytocartograms of the following taxa growing or expected in Egypt are given: Anagallis arvensis L. var. arvensis, A. latifolia L., A. arvensis L. var. caerulea (L.) Gouan, and A. foemina Mill. New hybrid Anagallis  hadidii Chrtek et Osbornov-Kosinov (A. arvensis L. var. arvensis  A. latifolia L.) is described. 
4180761| The originally monotypic family Gomphillaceae W. Wats. ex Haf. 1984 (Type = Gomphillus Nyl.) is here enlarged to accomodate nine additional genera: Aulaxina Fe, Calenia Mll. Arg. em. Sant., Echinoplaca Fe em. Sant., Gyalectidium Mll. Arg., Gyalideopsis Vzda, Tricharia Fe em. Sant. (all previously considered as a group of related genera in the family Asterothyriaceae), and Actinoplaca Mll. Arg., as well as two new genera described here, Bullatina Vzda et Poelt and Caleniopsis Vzda et Poelt. Particular attention is given to the diversity of the structure of the hyphophores which are specific to all the genera now included in the family Gomphillaceae and therefore assist in the accurate delimitation of these genera. A short description of each genus is appended, together with a list of species included. A key to the genera is presented and their interrelationships discussed. /// In die ursprnglich monotypische Flechtenfamilie Gomphillaceae W. Wats. ex Haf. 1984 (Typus-Gattung: Gomphillus Nyl.) werden weitere 9 Gattungen eingereiht: Aulaxina Fe, Calenia Mll. Arg. em. Sant., Echinoplaca Fe, Gyalectidium Mll. Arg., Gyalideopsis Vzda, Tricharia Fe em. Sant. (diese Gattungen sind schon frher als eine Gruppe von enger verwandten Genera in der Familie Asterothyriaceae betrachtet worden), Actinoplaca Mll. Arg., und die neuen Genera Bullatina (Gen. n.) und Caleniopsis (Gen. n.). Die emendierte Familie Gomphillaceae wird charakterisiert folgendermassen: Ascocarpien vom Apothecium-Typ (biatorin bis lecidein); Excipulum und Hymenium durch dnne, verzweigte und anastomosierende Hyphen in reicher Gelatine gebaut; Asci mit fissitunicaten (bitunicaten) Ascuswnden (Exotunica dnn, Endotunica mit apicalen Verdickungen); J - (nicht blau); Ascosporen zu 1-8 im Ascus, hyalin, querseptiert bis mauerfrmig geteilt nach den Arten; auf dem Lager mit asexuellen Vermehrungsorganen, s.g. Hyphophoren, die je ein oder mehrere Bschel von Diahyphen tragen, bei einigen Gattungen mit kleinen Algenzellen zwischen den Diahyphen. Nher wurden diese verschiedlich gebauten Hyphophoren, die spezifisch bei allen Genera vorkommen, behandelt; sie ermglichen eine genauere Abgrenzung der einzelnen Genera. Die Gattungen werden charakterisiert, die Arten aufgezhlt. Die verwandtschaftlichen Beziehungen zwischen den Gattungen wurden kurz besprochen. Ein Schlssel fr die Bestimmung der Genera ist beigefgt. 
4181412|Why some plants are damaged by flooding and others are not, is not a question that can be answered by citing any one particular mechanism or sequence of events. Flood-tolerant plants like obligate aquatic species can survive inundation but differ in that they are also adapted to withstand the consequences of becoming unflooded. Flooding implies a transitory state so that when water tables drop, adapted species have to be able to survive being deprived of the physical support of flood-water as well as re-exposure to a normal air supply. A review of flooding tolerance mechanisms reveals that tolerant species combine a range of adaptations which, depending on the life strategy of the species, can play different roles in enabling intact plants to adjust to both rising and falling water levels. Flooding is also a seasonal stress with many temperate plant communities being subjected to high water tables in winter. The mechanisms that confer tolerance of winter flooding also differ from those that allow plants to grow when flooded during the growing season. This review argues therefore, that reductionist investigations, which examine isolated organs or individual processes, may not be the most suitable method to apply to understanding the complexity of reactions that are needed to survive flooding. Instead, a holistic approach is advocated which examines the reactions of whole plants to changing water levels at different seasons of the year.
4179656| Die neue Assoziation des Verbandes Sparganio-Glycerion Br.-Bl. et Sissingh apud Boer 1942, das Glycerietum nemoralis-plicatae, ist in der submontanen bis montanen Stufe des stlichen Teils der Tschechoslowakei verbreitet. Ihre Bestnde sind optimal auf lehmsandigen rezenten Anschwemmungen der Karpatenbche und Quellrinnen (semimerse bis demerse Uferkotope des stenosaleutischen Ufertyps) entwickelt. /// The new association of the alliance Sparganio-Glycerion Br.-Bl. et Sissingh apud Boer 1942, the Glycerietum nemoralis-plicatae ass. nova, is distributed in the montane and submontane zones of the Czechoslovak West Carpathians. It was observed on the upper course of the Bl Orava River (Oravsk Magura Mountains) and on the middle and lower courses of the brooks Studen and Oravica (W. part of the High Tatra Mountains). Stands are developed on clayish-sandy brook deposits and around spring sites. The most constant and dominant species here is the characteristic species of the association, Glyceria nemoralis Uechtr. et Krn. Of the characteristic species of the alliance, only Veronica beccabunga L. and Glyceria plicata Fries are represented with the highest constancy (IV to V). 
4179441| Five new species and two varieties from the section Multifidae are described from the Sino-Himalayan region. They are referred to the affinity of P. multifida L. and P. griffithii Hook. f.; one of the new species is probably related to P. gerardiana Lindl. and one is intermediate between the species of the sections Multifidae and Niveae. /// In der Arbeit werden zwei Arten und zwei Varietten aus der weiteren Verwandtschaft von P. multifida L. beschrieben. Es sind dies P. exigua (Nepal, Tibet), P. karakoramica (Kaschmir), P. ornithopoda Tausch var. impexa (Kaschmir) und P. plurijuga Hand.-Mazz. var. lhasana (Tibet, Nepal). Aus Tibet wird P. caliginosa beschrieben, die nahe Beziehungen zu den Arten der Sektion Niveae aufweist, sich jedoch durch gefiederte Bltter kennzeichnet. P. spodiochlora sp. n. (Nepal, Bhutan) steht morphologisch zwischen P. griffithii Hook. f. und der chinesischen P. concolor Rolfe. P. mutabilis sp. n. (Kaschmir, Tibet) erinnert durch ihren Habitus P. approximata Bge., deren Areal seinen Schwerpunkt in Sdsibirien besitzt. 
4179974| Die submontanen krautreichen Buchenwlder auf Silikatbden in der westlichen Tschechoslowakei (Tschechische Sozialistische Republik) zerfallen in vier Assoziationen: 1. Tilio cordatae-Fagetum Mrz 1960 em. Moravec 1977, 2. Tilio platyphylli-Fagetum Klika 1939, 3. Melico-Fagetum Seibert 1954 und 4. Carici pilosae-Fagetum Oberdorfer 1957. Das Tilio cordatae-Fagetum ist an niedrigere Berglnder Mittel-, Sd- und Westbhmens gebunden. Das Tilio platyphylli-Fagetum ist eine lokal bedingte Assoziation des Westteils des Gebirges esk stedoho. Das Melico-Fagetum kommt in Nord- bis Ostbhmen und Nord- und Mittelmhren vor. Das Carici pilosae-Fagetum ist auf die Karpaten beschrnkt (ausnahmsweise greift es auf den Ostrand des Bhmischen Hochlandes ber). Die Buchenwlder des Hgellandes bei Jevany (Mittelbhmen) und des Gebirges elezn hory gehren, trotz dem Vorkommen in submontanen Lagen, dem Dentario enneaphylli-Fagetum Oberdorfer ex W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960 an. Die Zusammensetzung der Assoziationen ist durch pflanzensoziologische Tabellen belegt und ihre Verbreitung auf einer Punktkarte erfasst. /// The submontane herb-rich beech forests (or lime-beech or fir-beech forests) on silicate soils in western Czechoslovakia (Czech Socialist Republic) split into four associations: 1. Tilio cordatae-Fagetum Mrz 1960 em. Moravec 1977 - this association comprises the submontane herb-rich beech, lime-beech, or fir-beech forests of central, western and southern Bohemia. They formed (or still form where preserved) the climax vegetation on silicate soils in the submontane belt of lower highlands in the above area. Fagus sylvatica predominates in the tree layer accompanied irregularly by Carpinus betulus. Tilia cordata, Quercus petraea or Abies alba (recently retreating). The herb layer consists mainly of the Fagetalia character species, the Fagion species are less numerous (Dentaria bultifera, Actaea spicata, Prenanthes purpurea). The differential species group compared with other beech forest associations is composed of Zerna benekenii, Cardamine impatiens, Vicia sylvatica and Campanula trachelium. The species composition of this association in individual territories is documented in synoptic tables of the published sets of relevs (49 relevs) and in relev tables with 35 author's relevs. The Tilio cordatae-Fagetum occurred (or still occurs) in larger or smaller islands either on higher elevations as the climax community conditioned macroclimatically or on slopes of northern orientation conditioned microclimatically. It seldom occurs as the subclimax on steep slopes with ranker-braunerde. This association has been found in Bohemia only, in the hilly land Stedoesk pahorkatina, in the hilly land Vrchovina Berounky, on the ridge Lovsk prh and on the northern border of the Doupovsk hory Mts. It is concentrated between 400 and 600 m and shows a significant preference for slopes of northern orientation. The Tilio cordatae-Fagetum occupies waste mantle of the Pleistocene age on silicate rocks of various trophic degree (except those poor in bases) where soils belonging to the Centro-European braunerde (mainly to the mesotrophic variant) developed. 2. Tilio platyphylli-Fagetum Klika 1939 - represents a locally conditioned association which occurs on volcanic hills in the western part of the esk stedoho Mts. The tree layer is composed of four species on the average - Fagus sylvatica predominates Tilia platyphyllos, Quercus petraea and Tilia cordata are mixed in. The shrub layer is fairly regularly present, however, with a low cover degree; it is composed primarily of Lonicera xylosteum, Daphne mezereum and Ribes uva-crispa. In the herb layer the Fagetalia species mostly participate. The Fagion species are also quite numerous (Actaea spicata, Hordelymus europaeus, Prenanthes purpurea); they meet with some character species of the Carpinion (Stellaria holostea, Galium sylvaticum). Tilia platyphyllos, Lonicera xylosteum, Stellaria holostea, Galium sylvaticum and Convallaria majalis, can be considered the differential species compared with other beech forest associations. The species composition of this association is documented by synoptic tables of the published sets of relevs (16 relevs) and by 8 author's relevs. The Tilio platyphylli-Fagetum occurs in small islands in microclimatically favoured sites within a Carpinion territory with complicated geology and varied countryside. This is reflected also in the species composition; the coppice management of the stands probably contributed to enrichment in thermo- or heliophilous species. 3. Melico-Fagetum Seibert 1954 - encompasses Melica uniflora dominated beech forests which settled or still settle silicate soils in the submontane belt of northern to eastern Bohemia and northern and central Moravia as climax communities. The tree layer is dominated by Fagus sylvatica to which Acer pseudoplatanus, Carpinus batulus, rarely Abies alba (recently retreating) and Ulmus glabra admix with a lower constancy. The herb layer is characterized by a lower species number and by a predominance of Melica uniflora. It is composed mainly of the Fagetalia species, the Fagion species are less represented (Dentaria bulbifera, Festuca altissima, Hordelymus europaeus). The species composition of the association in western Czechoslovakia is documented by 14 author's relevs; some individual relevs have been published from northern and eastern Bohemia only. The Melico-Fagetum has been found in the Luick hory Mts., in the hilly land Ralsk vrchovina, in the mountains Nzk Jesenk and Odersk vrchy and in the highland Drahansk vrchovina. It occurs as a climax community primarily at altitudes of 400 to 600 m (seldom higher) and prefers deeper soils of the meso- to oligotrophic Centro-European braunerde on a flat senile relief showing no preference for a certain exposure. On the steeper volcanic hills. in northern Bohemia the association forms small islands confined to deeper weathered soils. 4. Carici pilosae-Fagetum Oberdorfer 1957 - in western Czechoslovakia this represents an association of herb-rich climax beech forests on silicate soils in the submontane belt of the western Carpathians. The tree layer consists almost solely of deciduous trees among which Fagus sylvatica predominates accompanied constantly by Quercus petraea. The herb layer is not too rich in species; in its species composition the Fagetalia species predominate in number whereas of the Fagion only Dentaria bulbifera achieves a higher constancy. Carex pilosa (dominant), Cephalanthera longifolia and Tithymalus amygdaloides can be considered the differential species compared with other beech forest associations. This association has not hitherto been published from Czechoslovakia. It is documented by 29 relevs 24 of which are new. The Carici pilosae-Fagetum has been found already exclusively in the Carpathians; as an exception it penetrates into the southeastern margin of the highland Drahansk vrchovina. This association does not occur in Bohemia. In the Moravian Carpathians the Carici pilosae-Fagetum has been attested in the highland Chiby, in the Bl Karpaty Mts. and in the hill group of Malenk. It occurs mainly at altitudes between 400 and 600 m of various exposure; in lower altitudes it descends into northern slopes. This association occupies mild slopes or flat ridges with deep soils belonging to the Centro-European braunerde (mostly to the mesotrophic variant). 5. A more detail comparison of some herb-rich beech forests occurring in submontane sites has shown their appurtenance to the Dentario enneaphylli-Fagetum Oberdorfer ex W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960. The beech forests under consideration occur in the hilly land near Jevany (Central Bohemia) and in the elezn hory Mts. 
4180315| A cytogeographical and morphological (fruit-types and leaf-shape) study of the critical Rumex acetosella aggregate has been made on the basis of 38 population samples, for the most part from the Czech Socialistic Republic. In the genecological respect the populations from Bohemia and those from North and West Moravia fit into the pattern earlier found in West and Central Europe (i.e. they are 6, mainly angiocarpous, and have non-dissected leaf lobes). Samples from the xerothermic region of South Moravia and parts of Slovakia and adjacent Austria are thought to be related to the Balkan population group (mainly 4, gymnocarpous and with much dissected - multifid - leaf lobes). Evidence of introgressive hybridisation from the 4 into the 6 ploidy-level has been found in the region of the well known migration route through the Moravian Gate. 
4179611|The author discusses the nomenclature of the species Geastrum fimbriatum Fr.; shows why it is not possible to apply the name Geastrum rufescens Pers. ex Pers. to this species and maintains the use of the name Geastrum sessile (Sow.) Pouz., which is here proposed as a new combination.
4181306|The interactions between field layer vascular plants and Sphagnum mosses in peat-forming systems are discussed in terms of differences in growth strategies, access to light, acquisition of mineral nutrients and water and the processes involved in the formation of the micro-topographical structures characteristic for these systems. To keep pace with the vertical growth of Sphagnum, the co-occurring vascular plants require a growth strategy involving continuous movement of the growing point and meristematic tissue upwards and a frequent formation of adventitious roots. The growth form and architecture of the vascular plants determine the occurrence and distribution of the structural units on a mire, the hummocks, lawns and hollows. Dwarf shrubs and other vascular plants with an orthotropic growth pattern characterise hummocks, where they form a firm matrix which reinforces and supports the spongy biomass of Sphagnum. In a similar way, clonal herbs stabilise the lawns because of the predominantly plagiotropic, or only weakly orthotropic, growth pattern of the rhizomes and coarse roots in the upper, oxic layers. Extended periods of drought often may have deleterious effects on the mosses but smaller impacts on the vascular plants because of their more efficient water conducting system. Different sources of mineral nutrients are used by Sphagnum (atmospheric deposition) and the vascular plants (mineralisation of the organic matter). The presence of Sphagnum, therefore, reduces the supply of nutrient resources to the vascular plants. Sphagnum thereby gains a competitive advantage. A high rate of mineralisation would be beneficial to the vascular plants by increasing their growth rates causing shading of the Sphagnum mosses and covering the moss layer by the above-ground litter fall. However, the slow decomposition of Sphagnum litter keeps the system in balance as it will reduce the nutrient supply to the vascular plants.
4181066|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat et Moravec 1990a), the present work collects the syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1988. The list comprises 27 syntaxa.
4179488| Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit den phytoznologischen Verhltnissen und der kologie der Tannen- und Schuttwlder in den Durchbruchstlern der mittleren Lunice und oberen Moldau in Sdbhmen. Die Schuttwlder werden durch die Ass. Querco robori-Aceretum reprsentiert, die vorwiegend im Tale der Lunice in zwei Subassoziationen u. zw. typicum und lunarietosum verbreitet ist. In den Gesellschaften der Tannenhangwlder auf nichtvernssten Bden wurden zwei Assoziationen unterschieden; krautreiche Linden-Tannenwlder reprsentiert die Ass. Tilio-Abietetum mit Subass. typicum, stellarietosum und lunarietosum, die zum Verband Tilio-Acerion Klika 1955 gehrt, azidophile Tannenwlder die Ass. Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum, die in den Verband Luzulo-Fagion Lohm. et Txen 1954 in Txen 1954 eingereiht wird. /// At the edge of the area of the alliance Carpinion in southern Bohemia the floristic differentiation of the natural forest communities takes place. This differentiation is characterized by the rise of some new associations (subassociations). In the valleys of the rivers Lunice-between Tbor and Beice-and Vltava-between esk Krumlov and Kamenn jezd-the following forest communities have been described: Querco robori-Aceretum, Tilio-Abietetum and Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum. All associations described are distributed in the middle or lower parts of the steep shaded slopes or in small narrow canyons at an altitude of about 410-600 m above sea level. The Querco robori-Aceretum is represented by maple forests with oak on the talus slopes in the warmer part of the valley of the Lunice river. This association belongs to the alliance Tilio-Acerion Klika 1955. It is divided into two subassociations: Querco robori-Aceretum typicum and Querco robori-Aceretum lunarietosum. The Querco robori-Acertum typicum occurs on soils of the mesotrophic or eutrophic braunerde, the Querco robori-Aceretum lunarietosum prefers soils of the ranker-braunerde. The association Tilio-Abietetum represents the natural herb-rich fir forest. This association is divided, according to floristic composition and habitat, into three subassociations: typicum, stellarietosum and lunarietosum. The Tilio-Abietetum stellarietosum occurs on the slopes above the left bank of the Lunice river, the Tilio-Abietetum typicum reaches its full development in the upper part of the valley of the Vltava river. Typical habitats of the subassociation Tilio-Abietetum lunarietosum are the steep slopes or the lower parts of the small narrow shady canyons on the right bank of the Vltava river between Zlat Koruna and Kamenn jezd. The soil type of the subassociations Tilio-Abietetum stellarietosum and Tilio-Abietetum typicum is the eutrophic or mesotrophic variant of braunerde, the soil subtype of the subassociation Tilio-Abietetum lunarietosum is ranker-braunerde. The A-horizon of the soils of the Tilio-Abietetum shows favourable physical and chemical properties-a higher content of exchangeable Ca
4181118| Use of morphological, karyological and enzymatic approaches in the study of 11 populations of Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud. originating from different geographic areas, climates and ecological conditions reveals a spatial differentiation of populations. There is no relationship between the two levels of ploidy, 2n=48 and 2n=96, and the habitat. In contrast, the climate and environmental conditions act to the selection of the well-adapted genotypes. So, the considerable phenotypic variability of P. australis is due to a high adaptability and an important genetic diversity. /// Onze populations de Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud. provenant de zones gographiques, de climats et de conditions cologiques diffrentes sont analyses sur les plans morphologique, caryologique et enzymatiques. Les deux niveaux de plodie dtermins, 2n=48 et 2n=96, ne sont pas en relation directe avec l'habitat. Les descripteurs de la vigueur des pousses sont corrls positivement et seraient lis aux conditions trophiques. L'analyse en composantes principales effectue  partir des donns biomtriques isole les populations selon un gradient cologique et climatique. Les zymogrammes obtenus pour six systmes enzymatiques rvlent une grande variabilit interpopulationnelle. Leur tude par l'analyse factorielle des correspondances et par la classification ascendante hirarchique montre une diffrenciation cologique et gographique des populations. Ces rsultats suggrent que la grande adaptabilit du P. australis est due  une forte htrozygotie et  une importante diversit gntique. 
4179804| Three new species of Cryptocoryne are described, based on material received from unspecified localities in tropical Asia. Crytocoryne hejni Rataj and C. zukalii Rataj differ from C. cor data Griff. by the non-infundibuliform gorge of the upper tube and by the colour of the limb of spathe. C. evae Rataj is one of the largest species of the genus and is related to C. siemensis Gagn. and C. zonata De Wit. It differs from C. siemensis and C. blasii by the limb of spathe which is twice as broad and long, and by the coloured inner part of the kettle, from C. zonata by the shape of the leaf-blades. 
4179675|Four species of the genus Brachysporium Sacc. emend. Mason et Hughes are treated in this paper from Czechoslovakia: B. nigrum (Link) Hughes, B. obovatum (Berk.) Sacc. and two new species, B. abietinum Hol.-Jech. and B. brevius Hol.-Jech.
4180092| In den Herbarien der botanischen Abteilung des Nationalmuseums in Prhonice (PR) werden zwei Belege aufbewahrt, die von Rohlena als Draba athoa Boiss. bezeichnet sind. Spter ordnete Rohlena selbst diese Pflanzen der Art D. elongata Host mit Bezeichnung var. skrivanekii Rohl. zu. Durch eine Analyse des Herbarmaterials hat sich erwiesen, dass es sich um eine selbstndige Art - Draba skrivanekii (Rohl.) Chrtek - handelt, die in den Gebirgslagen Montenegros (Kom Vasojeviki) wahrscheinlich endemisch ist. Die nchstverwandte Art ist Draba athoa (Griseb.) Boiss. 
25130306|Pollen of 110 species from 18 genera in the Portulacaceae has been examined by light and scanning electron microscopy, and a representative number by transmission electron microscopy. Three basic pollen types were found: 3-colpate with thick tectum and foot layer with prominent unbranched columellae and an extremely thin endexine; pantoporate with thick tectum and foot layer with branched columellae enclosing pores and an endexine that is one to two layers thick; pantocolpate with thin tectum and foot layer with broad, short unbranched columellae and an inconspicuous endexine. All pollen types, however, have a spinulose and tubuliferous/punctate ektexine. Also, all the genera except three, Calandrinia H.B.K., Montia L. and Talinum Adanson are stenopalynous. There is, however, no absolute correlation between pollen morphology and geographical distribution, although both the major centre of palynological diversity and the majority of all species with tricolpate grains occur in South America.
4181420|Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud. is a perennial plant, largely relying on its rhizomes for resource storage, spreading and anchorage in the substrate. Vertical distribution and length of horizontal rhizomes of Phragmites australis were investigated at the reed bed edge in a lake in southern Sweden. In deep water, horizontal rhizomes were relatively short and superficially situated in the substrate. It is hypothesised that this is an adaptation to water depth by keeping
4180352| Scirpus maritimus is widely distributed in the Camarque, South of France. Two dense homogenous stands of this helophyte (P. R.: Petit Rige and B. C.: Baisse des Courlis) were compared throughout the 1978 growing season. 
4179469| Eine taxonomische Studie ber die Gattung Sagiolechia Massal. als weiterer Teil einer Revision der Familie Gyalectaceae sensu Zahlbruckner wird vorgelegt. /// Le genre Sagiolechia Massal. 1854 tait  l'origine monotypique [avec l'espce S. protuberans (Ach.) Massal.]. Plus tard cinq autres espces furent dcrites comme Sagiolechia ou intgres  ce genre. D'aprs les rsultats de nos recherches, deux de celles-ci [S. cimbrica Massal. 1855 et S. leioplacoides (Vain.) Vain. 1921] ne sont que des formes cologiques de S. protuberans, deux autres [S. fusiformis (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr. 1905 et S. leptoplacella (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr. 1921] appartiennent a d'autres genres, et il n'y a qu'une qui est vritablement un Sagiolechia [S. rhexoblephara (Nyl.) Zahlbr. 1912]. Dans la classification de Zahlbruckner, Sagiolechia a t place dans la famille des Gyalectaces. Mais la structure des ascocarps est fondamentalement diffrente chez Sagiolechia et chez les Gyalectaces typiques: les Sagiolechia sont donc sans affinits relles avec ces dernires. Par contre quelques caractres anatomiques voir l'ontognie des ascocarpes montrent que Sagiolechia a des liens de parent certains avec les Graphidaces. 
4180607|Successional stages of the xeric series of old-fields in the Bohemian Karst have been studied from the point of view of disturbance of plant communities by different intensities of mowing. Changes of biomass, diversity and population structure have been examined. The communities of younger successional stages are relatively more disturbed but they are able to reestablish themselves rather quickly. The communities of the older stages are characterized by a slower rate of recovery. The stability of younger stages may be understood as resilience and stability of older stages as resistance.
4180678| Six new genera are designated for the predominantly foliicolous species with hyaline, septate ascospores originally included in the artificial genera Bacidia, Catillaria and Lopadium. These are Fellhanera gen. n. which, on the basis of ascus structure, belongs to the family Pilocarpaceae and includes 19 species, as well as Badimia gen. n. (6 species), Barubria gen. n. (1 species), Loflammia gen. n. (3 species), Calopadia gen. n. (6 species) and Logilvia gen. n. (1 species) which with the previously described genera Lasioloma R. Sant. and Tapellaria Mll. Arg. em. R. Sant. are classified in the family Ectolechiaceae as they are related to Sporopodium Mont. The campylidia, special reproductive organs of the lichens concerned, are present in all members of the family. They are considered to be phylogenetically derived from apothecia. The conidia they produce vary in shape and structure and can be divided into different types, each of which is characteristic of a particular genus. The necessary new combinations are introduced in an appendix. /// Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit der Systematik der berwiegend foliicolen Arten der Sammelgattungen Catillaria, Bacidia und Lopadium, die sich durch paraplectenchymatisch gebaute Excipula, relativ dnne, einfache bis reich verzweigte und netzartig verbundene Paraphysen, keulige Asci mit J+ blauem Tholi und septierte hyaline Ascosporen auszeichnen; fr sie wurde schon frher eine neue Gattung Lobaca ad interim vorgeschlagen (Vzda 1983). Anhand ihrer Ascusstrukturen werden die Lobaca-Arten nun in zwei Gruppen geteilt. Die erste mit Ascusstrukturen vom Byssoloma-Typus (sec. Hafellner 1984) wird als neue Gattung Fellhanera (gen. n.) der Familie Pilocarpaceae beschrieben. Die Arten der zweiter Gruppe mit Ascusstrukturen vom Sporopodium-Typus (sec. Hafellner 1984) schliessen sich nahe an die Gattungen Sporopodium Mont. em. R. Sant., Tapellaria Mll. Arg. em. R. Sant. und Lasioloma R. Sant. an; sie werden nun in 5 neue Gattungen gegliedert: Badimia gen. n., Barubria gen. n., Loflammia gen. n., Calopadia gen. n. und Logilvia gen. n. Die Verwandtschaft aller der schon existierenden sowie der hier neu aufgestellten Gattungen wird durch das Vorkommen von speziellen Conidiomata, s.g. Campylidien, dokumentiert. Die Campylidien, die oft fr Fruchtkrper parasitischer oder parasymbiotischer Fungi imperfecti angesehen wurden, werden nun als phylogenetisch von den Apothecien abgeleitete Organe der Flechte anerkannt. Sie lassen sich nach Bau und Form ihrer Conidien in mehrere Typen gliedern; jeder Gattung entspricht ein bestimmter Typus. Es hat sich weiter als vllig berechtigt erwiesen, alle Campylidie-tragenden Gattungen in eine Familie einzureihen, fr die der Name Ectolechiaceae Zahlbr. em. Hafellner vorgeschlagen wird. Im Anhang werden neue Art-Kombinationen gegeben. 
4180358|Misra et Misra (1981) have concluded, on the basis of an analysis of a grassland community, that there is significant negative correlation between species diversity and dominance indices. It is shown that this result is an unfortunate misunderstanding because negative correlation is an inevitable consequence of indices definitions. Some other shortcomings concerning diversity, stability and species-abundance distributions, contained in the paper, are pointed out.
4179507|Two new species, Campanula gentilis and C. gelida, are described and two new combinations, C. moravica (Spitzner) comb. nova and C. moravica subsp. xylorrhiza (O. Schwarz) comb. nova, are proposed.
4179824| Der sechste Beitrag aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) enthlt die taxonomische Bearbeitung des Subg. Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. (Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum.) in Europa (inkl. Kaukasus und Kleinasien) und Nordamerika. Im genannten Gebiet kommen 10 Arten vor, u. zw. J. caespiticia Lindenb., J. caucasica Va, J. confertissima Nees, J. gracillima Sm., J. handelii (Schiffn.) Amak., J. jenseniana Grolle, J. lignicola (Schiffn.) Grolle, J. pyriflora Steph., J. rubra Gott. ex Und. und J. sphaerocarpa Hook. Die Art J. confertissima Nees (bisher als Solenostoma levieri (Steph.) Steph. bezeichnet) gehrt zu der Sektion Desmorhiza Amak., alle anderen Arten gehren zu der Sektion Solenostoma. /// The sixth study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. keys (based on fertile and sterile plants) to the European (incl. Caucasia and Asia Minoi) and North American species of the subgenus Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. (genus Jungermannia L. emend. Dum.). 2. Synonymy, drawings and descriptions of nine species of the subgenus Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. growing in the above area. There are also data on the type specimens, exsiccata, ecology, geographical distribution, variation, taxonomy and relationships of these taxa. The species J. pyriflora Steph. has been studied by Amakawa (1960) and Schuster (1969). 3. Discussion of all infraspecific taxa on the basis of the concept of habitat modifications. Taxonomically, J. caespiticia Lindenb., J. caucasica Va, J. confertissima Nees, J. gracillima Sm., J. handelii (Schiffn.) Amak., J. jenseniana Grolle, J. lignicola (Schiffn.) Grolle, J. pyriflora Steph., J. rubra Gott. ex Und. and J. sphaerocarpa Hook. are treated as good species, other taxa as the habitat modifications. Some names are relegated to the synonymy. 
4181426|During the last few years alder has declined in South Bohemia. The possible role of mycorrhizal and actinorhizal symbioses is reviewed and some of the preliminary results from experiments testing the influence of these symbioses on alder growth and the influence of eutrophication on the development of these symbioses are reported. Seedlings of Alnus glutinosa were inoculated with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi and the actinomycete Frankia in experiment 1, and with rhizosphere soil collected from field sites with different degrees of alder damage in experiment 2. In both experiments, a solution containing nitrate, ammonia and phosphorus in concentrations simulating eutrophic waters, was applied. Both symbioses markedly promoted the growth of the seedlings in experiment 1. The plants inoculated with the rhizosphere soil microflora in experiment 2 were larger than the control plants. Response of the seedlings to the inoculation with the soil from the rhizosphere of damaged alder trees from six field sites differs, even though no correlation was found relating growth to the health status of the trees. Nutrient treatment did not have any effect on the growth of seedlings in either experiment. The dry weight of Frankia was greater in mycorrhizal plants compared to nonmycorrhizal plants and mycorrhizal colonization is reduced in Frankia inoculated plants supplemented with phosphorus in experiment 1. Nitrogen enhanced mycorrhizal colonization in nodulated plants which were not supplemented with phosphorus no effect of nitrogen on actinorhiza was observed.
4180737| Nine species of Byssoloma Trevisan (Pilocarpaceae) are reported from a collection of foliicolous lichens from Zaire, and include B. murinum sp. n. In addition, B. usambarense sp. n. is described from adjacent Tanzania. A determination key is provided to all the known African species, and each species is briefly characterized. /// Die foliicolen Funde der Byssoloma-Arten aus Zaire werden taxonomisch und geographisch behandelt. Folgende Ergebnisse der Untersuchungen werden vorgelegt: 1. Das byssoide Excipulargeflecht und die einheitlichen Strukturen der Asci sprechen fr die schon frher vorgeschlagene Einreihung der Gattung Byssoloma in eine selbstndige Familie Pilocarpaceae. 2. Von den 10 in Afrika festgestellten und im Bestimmungsschlssel angefhrten Arten wurden 9 in Zaire gefunden. 3. Neu werden beschrieben: Byssoloma murinum Vzda (sp. n.) aus Zaire und B. usambarense Vzda (sp. n.) aus Tansania. 4. Im Anhang werden 2 foliicole Bacidia-Arten behandelt: Bacidia africana Vzda, die gewisse Beziehungen zu Byssoloma aufweist, und B. palmularis (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr., die habituell mit ihrem byssoiden Geflecht an die Apothecien einer Byssoloma-Art erinnert, aber nach ihren sonstigen Merkmalen nichts mit Byssoloma zu tun hat. Alle Arten werden in Kurzdiagnosen vorgestellt; die bisher bekannten Funde werden zusammengestellt. 
4181417|This paper shows the effect of re-aeration following hypoxic pretreatment on the glutathione system in plants with different flooding tolerance. Re-aeration of hypoxically pretreated roots led to an increase of TBA-rm content indicating an accelerated lipid peroxidation (post-anoxic injury). Re-admission of oxygen resulted in a clear increase in the content of total glutathione in both flooding-intolerant species Myosotis arvensis and Senecio jacobaea. Simultaneously, the high ratio between reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) glutathione decreased in these species upon the onset of re-aeration, while the tolerant Myosotis palustris and Senecio aquaticus showed only little changes in contents of GSH and GSSG. An imbalance in GSH/GSSG ratio reflects oxidative stress. The glutathione reductase (GR) reacted very differently in the investigated genera. The metabolic response to varying oxygen pressure is much stronger in the flooding-intolerant species compared to species naturally growing in wetlands. The present results suggest that glutathione system is an important component in overcoming oxidative stress.
4181555|The leaf non-structural carbohydrate (NSC) content and total non-structural carbohydrate content (TNC) were measured on a dry weight basis and on a leaf area basis in three altitudinal (3100, 3550 and 4200 m a.s.l.) populations of E. schultzii. The values of leaf dry weight per area (LWA) increase with altitude. The leaf non-structural carbohydrate content (expressed as g/kg dry weight) does not show statistically significant difference among populations, but the values expressed on an area basis
4180712| A new subspecies of Cardamine pratensis L. subsp. major Tomovic, and a new hybrid Cardamine  smejkalii Tomovic from the Cardamine pratensis complex are described. Both new taxa are defined morphologically, karyologically and by their ecological characteristics. 
4180636|Alases are unique grassland landscapes in Central Yacutia, their development influenced by extra-continental arid climate. Twenty three associations have been distinguished and described. These associations form an ecological series from steppe with Festuca lenensis and Stipa krylovii through salt and swamp meadow (Hordeum brevisubulatum, Puccinellia tenuiflora, Alopecurus arundinaceus, Calamagrostis langsdorffii, Carex juncella) to swamp communities of Scolochloa festucacea, Glyceria triflora, Scirpus lacustris and Typha latifolia. The community complexes of specific elements of alas landscapes - baidjerakhs and bulgunnyakhs - are analysed.
4181249| Allozyme techniques, karyotype analyses and cultivation experiments were carried out on 20 population samples of Taraxacum sect. Piesis (Compositae), viz. T. bessarabicum (17 samples from W. and C. Europe, Ukraine and Crimea, Central Asia and the Altai), T. salsum from Crimea, T.  mesohalobium from Crimea, and T. stenolepium from the Caucasus. The taxa studied share a primitive, symmetrical karyotype. All taxa studied are sexual, T. bessarabicum mostly autogamous. Sexuality at the tetraploid level (T. stenolepium) and occasional male sterility in a sexual (T. bessarabicum in Moravia) were recorded for the first time in the genus. Selfing, diploidy and the highly predictable habitat may account for the mostly low level within population allozyme variation in T. bessarabicum. W. and C. European samples of T. bessarabicum are almost invariable allozymically and, as a group, have no unique alleles. The Crimean and Asian group of populations shows higher levels of allozyme variation and has 15 alleles not found in the former group at 13 loci studied. Recent migration from one source region is suggested to account for the homogeneity of the western group, refugial persistence of alleles and possible introgression from sympatric species may have resulted in allele richness in the eastern group. Hybridization between T. bessarabicum and T. salsum was documented by allozyme patterns in a few plants in Crimea. Some aberrant allozyme or karyotypic features of two populations are discussed as well. 
4180442|A new species, Euphorbia sanctae-catharinae A. Fayed, from the group of E. terracina L., is described from southern mountaneous area of Sinai.
4180692| On the basis of plant collections and observations during an expedition through the MPR in 1978, an enumeration of 142 rare and interesting species of higher plants is given. The ecology of the species is discussed and a grouping of the species into geoelements is given. /// In der vorliegenden Arbeit wird eine floristische Auswertung der Aufsammlungen einer 1978 durchgefhrten Expedition durch den mittleren Teil der Mongolischen Volksrepublik vorgenommen. Von 142 Arten werden Fundorte mitgeteilt und Hinweise auf Begleitpflanzen und pflanzengeographischen Charakter gegeben. Anemone obtusiloba wird erstmals fr die Mongolei nachgewiesen. Neu fr den Changaj-Bezirk sind Cystopteris dickieana, Eriophorum scheuchzeri, Salix myrtilloides, Chenopodium rubrum, Minuartia stricta, Aconitum smirnovii, Actaea erythrocarpa, Barbarea arcuata, Rosa oxyacantha, Hedysarum collinum, Hedysarum setigerum, Gentiana aquatica und Schizonepeta annua. Fr den Chentej-Bezirk werden Isatis costata, Astragalus dahuricus, Lophanthus chinensis, Pedicularis compacta und Utricularia intermedia erstmals genannt. Polypodium virginianum, Medicago ruthenica und Cicuta virosa sind neu fr Sred.-Chalch., Alisma gramineum und Cistanche salsa sind Neufunde fr das Tal der Seen (Dol. oz.) bzw. fr den Gobi-Altaj-Bezirk. Abschliessend werden pflanzengeographische Stellung von Kobresia-Rasen und Florenelemente nordmongolischer Gebirge diskutiert. 
4179433| Die biometrische Bearbeitung der Merkmalsvariabilitt einiger Taxa aus dem Komplex Arabis hirsuta (L.) Scop. wird erweitert durch die "Graphische Methode des Vergleiches von Pflanzenhabiti". Neu ist in der vorliegenden Arbeit die Anwendung dieser Methode bei der Analyse der P- und
4181419|This contribution combines field observation with the literature to argue that stabilised water levels are contributing to reed decline through a lack of vegetative and generative reproduction, and that eutrophic conditions exacerbate this situation. The focus on what causes reed shoots to die has increased our knowledge of what limits the distribution of reed without necessarily increasing our understanding of reed decline. This raises the question as to whether reed beds are in fact dying, or whether reed decline is observable only in the absence of regeneration. The distribution pattern and life-history of reed suggests that generative reproduction is lacking. It is proposed that the temporal scale at which seedling establishment takes place is similar to the time-frame of observed reed decline (10-50 years). As an "encompassing" factor, water regime influences many of the specific factors under investigation. Its role is therefore consistent with agreement in the literature that reed decline is caused by combinations of factors.
4179821|Progenies of triploid and diploid hybrids of tetraploid Arabis hirsuta (L.) Scop. s. str. and diploid A. sagittata (Bertol.) DC. and A. planisiliqua (Pers.) Reichenb. were studied. The observations concerned morphology, cytology, sterility degree of plants and embryological backgrounds. The evolutionary consequences of breakage of the sterility barriers within the complex connected with well pronouced morphological and karyological variability of hybrids are discussed.
4179679|The investigations of growth rhythm, dry matter production, leaf area development and root/shoot ratio of dominant reed bed species, grown in a greenhouse in hydroponic cultures during winter and spring are described. Data on air temperature, relative humidity and density of incoming solar radiation were recorded during the whole season. All species planted in autumn (in a warm greenhouse) presented a pronounced thermoperiodism, i.e. weak growth caused by an incomplete period of dormancy. The winter-planted specimens developed into normal and vigorous plants. The R/S ratio may be a relatively constant characteristic of species, but only for a given growth phase.
4179863|The observations on net above-ground biomass and production in a large protected area of monsoonal vegetation at Jodhpur (India) are presented in this paper. With the start of the monsoon (July-August) a distinct increase in biomass was noted and by winter (November-December), the biomass, decreased as there was hardly any moisture in the soil. The ephemerals, especially some of the grasses form the bulk of biomass in the total make-up. The biomass and production appeared to be closely related in the monsoonal vegetation of this area. The maximum biomass value (360.5 g/ m
4180762| The origin, age and development of a mire deposit in the locality of the Mokr Louky meadows near Tebo were ascertained by means of palaeoecological methods. The first minerogenic sediments originated in a depression at the turn of the Late-Glacial and the Holocene Periods. In the course of minerogenic sedimentation, the vegetational cover was formed by stands of Filipendula. In the middle of the Pre-Boreal Period, the first organic sediments formed by reed plant communities were deposited in the area. In the course of the following periods, plant communities of mire and marshy meadows belonging to the associations of the class Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae predominated on the site. Stands of willow and alder trees were formed in some parts of the deposit most probably towards the end of the Atlantic Period, with their maximum development in the Sub-Boreal to Upper Sub-Atlantic Periods. Pollen analysis produced a more precise foundation for reconstructing the forest vegetation in the centre of the Tbosk pnev Basin. A higher presence of Quercus and a lower one of Fagus, as compared with the results of previous pollen analyses from the borders of the Basin, were ascertained. The palaeoecological analyses are supported by radiocarbon datings. /// Das Alter des Lagers Mokr Louky bei Tebo wurde pollenanalytisch auf die Scheide des Sptglazials und Holozns bestimmt. Die ltesten Proben, die mit Hilfe des Radiokarbons datiert werden konnten, sind vom Alter von 9 630  100 Jahre BP und 9 600  100 Jahre BP. Das Lager entstand in einer breiten Terrainsenkung im Alluvium eines Baches, der die Wsser aus dem Sden des Beckens Tebosk pnev sammelte. Anfangs hat die minerogene Sedimentation berwogen. Das anorganische Material wurde durch den im flachen Alluvium aus dem Ufer tretenden Wasserlauf angeschwemmt. Die erste Pflanzendecke dieser anorganischen Sedimente bildeten vor allem die Filipendula ulmaria-Bestnde, die der Radiokarbondatierung nach in der Nhe des untersuchten Standortes lnger als 1 000 Jahre berwogen hatten (9 600  100 Jahre bis 8 650  100 Jahre BP.). Zur berwiegend organogenen Sedimentation kam es erst in der zweiten Hlfte des Prboreals. Bei der Bildung von Humolit kamen die Arten der Familie Cyperaceae und Poaceae (Phragmites communis) zur Geltung. Im Laufe des Boreals und des lteren und jngeren Atlantikums war der grssere Teil des Lagers mit Gesellschaften der Klasse Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae bedeckt; hufiger waren Menyanthes trifoliata, Comarum palustre, Equisetum fluviatile, Rhynchospora alba und Arten der Carex-Gattung vertreten. Festgestellt wurde auch Carex chordorrhiza. Erwhnenswert ist auch das Vorkommen von Sparganium cf. minimum am Anfang des lteren Atlantikums. Auf eine verhltnismssig hohe Vernssung der Lokalitt und Existenz von kleinen Tmpeln deutet das hufige Vorkommen von Zygosporen der Algen aus der Familie Conjugatophyceae (Mougeotia sp. div., Zygnema sp. div., Spirogyra sp. div.) vom Boreal bis zum jngeren Subatlantikum, mit maximalem Vorkommen im Atlantikum, hin. Einen hheren Grundwasserspiegel ab Hlfte des lteren Atlantikums weisen auch die Funde von Sphagnum-sporen und Schalen der Wurzelfssler Amphitrema flavum nach. Whrend des Subboreals drfte der Grundwasserspiegel am Lager etwas gesunken sein und an einigen Standorten bildeten sich Erlenbestnde. Diese Bestnde, zusammen mit den Gesellschaften der Klasse Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae bildeten am Lager eine mosaikartige Pflanzendecke auch im Subatlantikum. Ein heftiger Aufschwung der Weidenbestnde hat hier erst im jngeren Subatlantikum begonnen, als Folge der wirtschaftlichen Eingriffe in die Lagerbestnde. Die grundlegende Tendenz der Entwicklung der Pflanzendecke in weiterer Umgebung der Lokalitt entspricht ungefhr den fr das ganze Gebiet des Beckens Tebosk pnev festgestellten Richtlinien (Jankovsk 1980). Ende Sptglazial und im Prboreal haben hier Kiefernbestnde mit Birke und Wacholder berwogen. Im Boreal erreichten die Kiefernbestnde ihr holoznes Verbreitungsoptimum und im Gebiet kamen anspruchsvollere Gehlze zur Geltung (Corylus, Quercus, Tilia, Fraxinus, Alnus und Picea). Ihr erstes Vorkommen kann dank den C-14 Daten in die Zeitspanne um 8 650  90 Jahre BP gelegt werden und der Beginn ihres Aufschwunges in die um 8 180  90 Jahre BP. Im lteren Atlantikum breiteten sich zum Nachteil von Kiefernbestnden die Gehlze der Eichenmischwlder aus, an Standorten mit gnstigen hydrologischen Verhltnissen bildeten sich Erlen- und vernsste Fichtenbestnde. Die erwhnten Eichenmischwald-, Erlen- und Fichtenbestnde erreichten ihr Holoznoptimum im jngeren Atlantikum. Im Subboreal fand eine weitere grosse nderung in der Vergetation des Beckens Tebosk pnev statt. In die atlantischen Eichenmischwlder begannen nach und nach Abies und Fagus durchzudringen. Spter im lteren Subatlantikum wurden die Eichenmischwlder fast vllig aus ihren ursprnglichen Flchen von den Buchen-Tannenbestnden verdrngt. Auch die Fichte, die den Schwerpunkt ihrer Ausbreitung in den vernssten Biotopen in der Nhe der Moorkomplexe hatte, wurde weniger vertreten. In den Tannenbestnden war sie nur ein eingestreutes Gehlz. Die Kolonisation der Gegend Ende des 12. Jhdts. usserte sich durch gesamte Verringerung der Waldflchen und den Rcktritt einzelner Gehlze. Am meisten wurde die Tanne betroffen. Die Degradation der Waldbden ermglichte einen heftigen Aufschwung der anspruchslosen Kiefer an den Sandsubstraten. Zum Unterschied von den meisten vorherigen vorwiegend aus Lokalitten der Randgebiete des Beckens Tebosk pnev erzielten pollenanalytischen Ergebnissen wurde durch die Pollenanalyse der Sedimente aus Mokr Louky eine hhere Vertretung der Eiche im Zentrum des Tebo-Gebietes besttigt. Die Eiche hatte hier schon seit Boreal einen hheren Anteil. Die Buche hingegen machte sich in dem Zentralteil des Tebo-Gebietes weniger geltend als an seinen Randpartien. 
4179976| In Iran, Iraq, Turkey and adjacent southern parts of the U.S.S.R., four species of the genus Vicia, group of V. ciceroidea, occur, namely V. multijuga (Boiss.) Rech. f., V. ciceroidea Boiss., V. rafigae Tamamjan and the new species V. sojakii described here. This group of species is distinguished by its tendency to reduction of leaflets, broadening of leaf rhachis and dense branching of stems. With respect to these particular properties it is now convenient to esparate these species as a series Ciceroideae in the section Cracca. /// Die Artengruppe der Serie Ciceroideae ist im Gebiet des nrdlichen, Iran, des nrdlichen Iraq, der stlichen Trkei und der sdlichen Sowjetunion (Azerbajdjan) endemisch, mit dem Verbreitungszentrum in Hochgebirgslagen des nordiranischen Gebirges. Der Morphologie nach bilden die Arten eine isolierte Gruppe innerhalb der Gattung Vicia, welche mit der typischen Reduktion der Blttchen, dem Ausweitern der Blattspindel und der Vermehrung der ste, die zusammen mit den Blattspindeln die Funktion der Assimilationsorgane bernehmen, charakteristisch ist. Wegen dieser speziellen Eigenschaften ist es richtiger, die vier Arten dieser Gruppe, V. multijuga, V. rafigae, V. ciceroidea und V. sojakii in eine neue Serie Ciceroideae, der Sektion Cracca abzusondern. 
4181217| Natural and semi-natural plant communities of Svjatoj Nos Peninsula on the East coast of Lake Baikal, Eastern Siberia, Russia, are classified and described using the methods of Braun-Blanquet phytosociology. A total of 48 associations and communities were recognized, comprising alpine tundra, subalpine forb vegetation, aquatic macrophyte vegetation, tall-herb and poor fens, mires, bogs, meadows, sand-dune and steppe vegetation. Twenty six syntaxa of ranks ranging from subassociation to class are described or validated for the first time. All communities are documented by phytosociological relevs. 
4181205| Chromosome numbers of eight agamospermous Taraxacum microspecies are reported for the first time: T. hypanicum Tzvel. [sect. Dioszegia (Heuff.) Heuff.], T. neosivaschicum Tzvel. [sect. Palustria (Lindb. fil.) Dahlst.], T. pseudohoppeanum Kirschner et tpnek (sect. Erythrocarpa Dahlst.), T. schroeterianum H.-M. (sect. Rhodocarpa van Soest), T. marmottae C.E. Sonck, T. lambinonii van Soest [sect. Erythrosperma (Lindb. fil.) Dahlst.], T. zermattense Dahlst. and T. magnoobliquum van Soest (taxa of uncertain classification). All these polyploid microspecies have satellite chromosomes in their karyotypes. Advanced karyological characters were found in sect. Dioszegia, hitherto regarded as a primitive section of Taraxacum: triploidy in agamospermous T. hypanicum Tzvel. and satellite chromosomes as in this taxon, as in two diploid sexuals T. serotinum (W. et K.) Poiret and T. haussknechtii Uechtr. The results presented are compared to the literature data. 
4179838| In vorliegender Arbeit wird eine neue Assoziation beschrieben, u. zw. das Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli. Diese Assoziation ist bisher nur in NW-Bhmen, im Riesengebirge (Krkonoe) und im Bergland d'rsk vrchy untersucht worden. Sie ist hier an die submontane und montane Hhestufe gebunden, wo Granit und kristalline Schiefer die geologische Unterlage bilden. Optimale Bedingungen fr die Entwicklung des Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli bieten jene Standorte, wo wenigstens zu Beginn der Vegetationsperiode das nicht stagnierende Grundwasser in den Rhizosphrenbereich eingreift. Der Boden ist mit Phosphor und Kalium gut versorgt und zeigt oft eine mssig gute Pufferung. Vom pflanzensoziologischen Standpunkt aus weist die Assoziation Beziehungen zu den Gesellschaften des Calthion-Verbandes auf. /// The Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli, a new association of the order Molinietalia, provisionally classed within the alliance Calthion, is described. The association is mostly found in the montane belt (600 to 900 m alt.) of mountain ranges composed of granite or crystalline rocks. So far, it has been studied in Czechoslovak mountains, namely in the Krun Hory Mts., Slavkovsk Les Mts., Krkonoe Mts. and d'rsk Vrchy Mts; it has also been reported from the Smriny Mts. and Doupovsk Hory Mts. In NW Bohemia, a region under the influence of the oceanic climate, the Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli descends to the foothills (down to 400 m) while in the Krkonoe Mts., situated further to the eastern continental part of Europe, this association has also been recorded near the lower limits of the subalpine belt (at 1030 m alt.). It occurs around springs over the mountain slopes, and along streams in the valleys. In the latter habitats, the substrate is, as a rule, saturated with percolating water (continuously stagnant underground water is absent). Both kinds of habitats are relatively well supplied with both potassium and phosphorus. From the systematical point of view, three subassociations are distinguished within the association: Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli typicum, trisetetosum flavescentis and geranietosum silvatici. The latter is differentiated into two geographical races distinguished by the presence of either Phyteuma nigrum or Phyteuma spicatum. Syngenetical relationships of the association to other plant communities of the alliance Calthion, and to those of the alliances Polygono-Trisetion or Violion caninae, are apparent from a key attached to Tab. 1 (p. 62 - 63). 
4179559|The paper deals with the taxonomy and geographical distribution of the two species of the genus Echinodorus which Fassett (1955) did not work up satisfactorily in his revision i.e. Echinodorus macrophyllus (Kunth) Mich. which Fassett does not quote at all, and E. scaber Rataj which Fassett mistook for E. muricatus Griseb. Further a new variety and the diagnoses of hybrids, among which E. punctatus Mich. is included, are cited.
4179970| In Iran and the neighbouring regions of Turkey, Iraq, U.S.S.R. and Afghanistan, eight already known species belonging to the subsection Variegatae Radzhi, occur: V. persica Boiss., V. armena Boiss., V. variegata Willd., V. akhmaganica Kazar., V. gregaria Boiss. et Heldr., V. aucheri Jaub. et Spach and the two new species described here, V. rechingeri Chrtkov-ertov and V. afghanica Chrtkov-ertov. The occurrence of most species is restricted to a limited area which may be one of the evolutionary centres of this subsection. 
4181267|The growth dynamics of shoot populations and the mode of competition between intra-clonal shoots of two rhizomatous species, Polygonum cuspidatum and Polygonum weyrichii, were investigated at the Houei crater (c. 2380 m a.s.l.) of Mt. Fuji. Three genetic individuals of P. cuspidatum (large, medium and small) and five genetic individuals of P. weyrichii were selected for this research. The growth dynamics of shoot populations were analysed using the diffusion model. In P. cuspidatum, linear G(t,x) functions (mean of absolute growth rates of shoots of size x at time t in the diffusion model) with positive slopes were found in terms of shoot weight in three genetic individuals. The linear G(t,x) functions suggest that smaller-sized shoots were supported by means of physiological integration and not suppressed by larger-sized shoots. As in other clonal plant species, size-independent D(t,x) functions (variance of absolute growth rates of shoots of size x at time t in the diffusion model) were found in P. cuspidatum. A similar tendency was also found in the five genetic individuals of P. weyrichii. There was large variance of RGR in terms of shoot weight irrespective of values of
4181000| The littoral vegetation, mainly reeds and floating leaved vegetation, of the large Swedish lakes Mlaren, Hjlmaren, Vnern, and Vttern has been mapped during the period 1969 - 1975. The plant communities covered wide areas along the lake shores and no method other than aerial photography could be used for mapping the distribution of plant communities. Infrared colour film was used from a height of 1 500 m. Field observations were conducted to facilitate interpretation of pictures. Stratified sampling and counting of vegetation along random transects was used for calculating the biomass of the lakes and observing future changes. The aquatic vegetation in the area consists largely of stands dominated by a single species of Phragmites australis, Schoenoplectus lacustris, Typha angustifolia or Nuphar lutea. They could therefore be identified without great difficulty on the photographs. Interpretation was performed with great success and distribution maps of emergent and floating-leaved vegetation have been drawn of the entire lakes Mlaren and Hjlmaren and parts of the two largest lakes of Sweden, Vnern and Vttern (Fig. 1). Totally 2 400 photographs have been interpreted and the entire shore length of 4 500 km thoroughly mapped. The results have previously been reported in Swedish with English summaries (Andersson, 1972; 1973; 1975; 1978a, b; Andersson and Eriksson, 1974). A rapid development of remote sensing techniques made it interesting to test whether data from an airborne multispectral scanner could be used for mapping aquatic macrophytes. Results of that computer classification are discussed and compared with maps made by interpretation of IR-colour photographs. 
4181161|The middle part of one of the largest rivers of Eurasia, the Lena, stretches for a more than 1500 km; the width of its floodplain varies from 5 to 30 km. This floodplain is covered by islands at various stages of development, which are covered by a mosaic of different successional stages. Forests are the terminal stage of succession. Soils are permafrost, ranging from chernozem to saline and alluvial types. Grassland communities are due mainly to the activity of man. Two major ecological factors are responsible for the differentiation: hydrothermic regime (regulated mainly by the altitude above the river) and by soil salinity. Both direct and indirect gradient analyses are used to demonstrate this relation. Species positions along these gradients are given. Two climatically differentiated parts of the floodplain are distinguished. The first steppe-meadow floodplain is characterized by low soil salinity and a more favourable regime of precipitation; the second (meadow-steppe part) by a very dry and continental climate and strong soil salinization up to true sodum-chloride solontchaks.
4179478| The ecological life-history of "leafless" spurge, Euphorbia caducifolia Haines, which serves as an indicator of rocky and gravelly habitat in Rajasthan (India) is dealt with here. There appear to be two forms in existence: one with red and the other with green inflorescence, which interbreed freely in nature resulting in different shades of red coloured inflorescence. The plant is suitably adapted to xerophytic conditions, but surprisingly the leaves are borne only in summer when there is acute shortage of water. Flowering starts in January-February and the seeds are dispered by March-April. The seeds do not indicate any dormancy but the percentage of germination from different plants vary remarkably. The optimum germination is achieved between 25 - 30 C, beyond which it is retarded. Continuous light hastens germination. The seeds are washed down by rains from the rocky slopes where the plants grow and are buried in mud to a depth where germination does not take place, and hence regeneration of the plant is poor. 
4180017| The continuation of the cytological investigation of natural taxa and spontaneous hybrids of the genus Rosa is given. The chromosome numbers of 110 plants belonging to 33 taxa and 7 hybrids are presented. These results are compared with the data known from the literature including those given under other synonyms. In 7 species and 3 varieties the cytological data are published for the first time. Each plant is provided with information on its origin. A new species Rosa popekii Kltersk is described. The somatic association of rose chromosomes is discussed in connection with mitotic peculiarities of Rosa pimpinellifolia R 316. 
4179878| Diagnoses of the following 5 new lichen species are presented: Lecanora casimceana Vzda sp. n., Lecanora prominens Asta, Clauzade et Roux sp. n., Ramalina pontica Vzda sp. n., Usnea pseudoceratina Motyka sp. n. and Usnea tanzanica Motyka sp. n. The isotypes will be distributed in fasc. No. 53 of the "Lichenes selecti exsiccati" (issued by the Botanical Institute, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, Prhonice near Praha). 
4180413|Cassia angustifolia, C. italica, C. occidentalis, C. obtusifolia and C. pumila were exposed to water stresses of different levels for 20 days, after which their growth performance and survival values were observed. As the water stress increases the plant growth reduces drastically.
4179470| The authors have examined the nomenclatural status of the generic names proposed by F. M. Opiz in his work "Seznam Rostlin Kvteny esk" (A list of Bohemian plants) and of names which have been regarded in later literature as first published in that book. Many of the generic names proposed by Opiz in his Seznam were not in fact validly published in that book; on the other hand the valid publication of several names is conditioned by various types of indirect indication of an earlier effectively published diagnosis. Of the 80 generic names analysed 36 were validly published by Opiz in various works (not all in the Seznam), but only 13 to 15 are legitimate in the sense of the International Code 1966. The legitimate names are: Cenekia, Ceranthe, Duschekia, Euacer, Jovibarba, Kablikia, Lamiopsis, Liebichia, Plethiosphace, Pseudolysimachion, Spirocarpus, Swida, Weitenwebera and perhaps Margarospermum and Nenningia. Of these legitimate names four are considered by the authors as correct i.e. Duschekia, Jovibarba, Pseudolysimachion and Swida; in the Appendix some new combinations with these generic names are proposed. In the text some mistakes concerning Opiz's generic names in Index Kewensis are corrected. For 14 of Opiz's generic names the lectotypes are selected. A special notice is given to the nomenclatural problems of the group "Avenastrum". /// In der vorliegenden Studie befassen sich die Autoren mit der nomenklatorischen Analyse der Gattungsnamen, die von Opiz in seinem Buche "Seznam rostlin kvteny esk" (weiter nur Seznam) verffentlicht wurden. Es handelt sich hier um 80 Gattungsnamen, welche aber nicht denselben nomenklatorischen Wert besitzen. Eine ziemlich grosse Gruppe unter ihnen stellen die Namen vor, die von Opiz im Seznam nicht als gltig, valid verffentlicht wurden. Diese ungltig, invalid publizierten Gattungsnamen kann man in zwei weitere Gruppen einteilen: 1. die von Opiz zum erstenmal gebildeten Gattungsnamen, bei denen es uns nicht gelang, dieselbe Benennung unter den Namen der infragenerischen Taxa bei frheren Autoren festzustellen. Es sind das die folgenden Namen: Amerlingia Opiz 1852, Diplogama Opiz 1852, Floscuculi Opiz 1852, Grnera Opiz 1852, Hypericopsis Opiz 1852, Knafia Opiz 1852, Lusekia Opiz 1852, Mrkensteinia Opiz 1852, Nicotia Opiz 1852, Pfundia Opiz 1852, Preissia Opiz 1852, Reigera Opiz 1852, Seneciunculus Opiz 1852, Sykoraea Opiz 1852, Thlaspidea Opiz 1852, Tracheliopsis Opiz 1852, Ulina Opiz 1852 und auch Veronicastrum Opiz 1852. 2. die Gattungsnamen, zu welchen wir dieselbe Benennung unter den Namen der infragenerischen Taxa in der frheren Literature finden konnten; es ist uns aber nicht gelungen, bei diesen Namen einen indirekten Hinweis in Opiz's Seznam festzustellen, welcher uns ermglichen knnte, diese Namen als gltig, valid verffentlichte Namen anzunehmen. Es sind das die folgenden Gattungsnamen: Atocion Opiz 1852, Caryophyllea Opiz 1852, Cembra Opiz 1852, Consiligo Opiz 1852, Elatinella Opiz 1852, Epithymum Opiz 1852, Hyssopifolia Opiz 1852, Leuce Opiz 1852, Leucodonium Opiz 1852, Limnirion Opiz 1852, Lupularia Opiz 1852, Margaritaria Opiz 1852, Martagon Opiz 1852, Otites Opiz 1852, Pterocyperus Opiz 1852, Sinapistrum Opiz 1852, Tremula Opiz 1852 und wohl auch Capraea Opiz 1852 und Plumaria Opiz 1852. Folgende 6 ungltige, invalide Gattungsnamen sind gewhnlich in der Literatur mit dem Hinweis an das Opiz's Werk Seznam angefhrt; sie wurden aber von Opiz schon in seinen frheren Arbeiten bentzt, in diesen Fllen aber auch ungltig. Es sind das: Erxlebenia Opiz 1844, Gigachilon Seidl apud Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1836, Ramischia Opiz 1844, Ruprechtia Opiz 1844, Steinmannia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839 und Steinreitera Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839. Manche Gattungsnamen, welche von Opiz nicht valid verffentlicht wurden, wurden spter aber valid von anderen Autoren publiziert; es sind das: Pfundia Opiz ex Nvskij 1937, Ramischia Opiz ex Garcke 1858. In die zweite Gruppe gehren die von Opiz valid verffentlichten Namen; wir fhren zuerst solche Namen an, welche zwar im Seznam von Opiz bentzt wurden und die in der Literatur gewhnlich von dort angefhrt werden, welche aber von Opiz schon in seinen frheren Arbeiten gltig verffentlicht wurden. In die weitere Gruppe reihen wir solche Gattungsnamen ein, die von Opiz wirklich erst im Seznam valid publiziert wurden. Frher als im Seznam wurden von Opiz gltig, valid folgende Gattungsnamen verffentlicht: Botryocarpum (A. Rich.) Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Ceranthe Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Chamaebuxus Opiz 1839, Cochlidiospermum (Reichenb.) Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Cenekia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Dipsacella Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1838, Dischidium (Ging. in DC.) Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Duschekia Opiz 1839, Euacer Opiz 1839, Fiebera Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Jacea Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Kablikia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Liebichia Opiz 1844, Margarospermum (Reichenb.) Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Nenningia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Orthosporum (R. Br.) Opiz 1839, Papas Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1843, Swida Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1838, Tabacum Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1841, Torminaria Opiz 1839, Weitenwebera Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839. Im Seznam wurden zum erstenmal diese Namen valid publiziert: Aethiopis (Benth.) Opiz 1852, Amellus (Nees) Opiz 1852, Avenastrum Opiz 1852, Ceramanthe (Reichenb.) Opiz 1852, Consolida (DC.) Opiz 1852, Drymosphace (Benth.) Opiz 1852, Ervilia (Koch) Opiz 1852, Hemisphace (Benth.) Opiz 1852, Jovibarba Opiz 1852, Kratzmannia Opiz 1852, Lamiopsis (Dum.) Opiz 1852, Malya Opiz 1852, Plethiosphace (Benth.) Opiz 1852, Pseudolysimachion (Koch) Opiz 1852, Spirocarpus (Ser. in DC.) Opiz 1852. Im Seznam ungltig, aber spter doch gltig verffentlichte Opiz den Gattungsnamen Filaginella Opiz ex Opiz 1854. Von den angefhrten von Opiz valid verffentlichten Gattungsnamen sind zu dieser Zeit, in Hinsicht auf die Forderungen des Codes 1966, folgende Gattungsnamen als legitime anzunehmen: Ceranthe Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Cenekia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Duschekia Opiz 1839, Euacer Opiz 1839, Jovibarba Opiz 1852, Kablikia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Lamiopsis (Dum.) Opiz 1852, Liebichia Opiz 1844, Plethiosphace (Benth.) Opiz 1852, Pseudolysimachion (Koch) Opiz 1852, Spirocarpus (Ser. in DC.) Opiz 1852, Swida Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1838, Weitenwebera Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839 und wohl auch Margarospermum (Reichenb.) Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839 und Nenningia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839. Unserer derzeitigen Auffassung nach sollen von den erwhnten legitimen Opiz's Gattungsnamen folgende als richtige, korrekte Gattungsnamen anerkannt werden: Duschekia Opiz 1839, Jovibarba Opiz 1852, Pseudolysimachion (Koch) Opiz 1852 und Swida Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1838; manche neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen mit diesen Gattungsnamen, die nach unseren Erfahrungen noch nicht publiziert wurden, sind im Appendix dieser Studie angefhrt. Im Laufe unseres Studiums dieser Problematik konnten wir im Index Kewensis (sowie auch im Dalla Torre et Harms Genera Siphonogamarum) manche unrichtige literarische Hinweise bei den Gattungsnamen, die in diesem unserem Beitrage analysiert wurden, feststellen. Es ist ntig, die literarischen Hinweise im Index Kewensis bei den folgenden Gattungsnamen zu verbessern: Botryocarpum, Duschekia, Euacer, Fiebera, Kablikia, Liebichia, Nenningia und Weitenwebera. Vllig fehlen im Index Kewensis die Hinweise auf folgende Gattungsnamen von Opiz: Aethiopis, Amellus, Amerlingia, Avenastrum, Consiligo, Jacea, Margarospermum, Papas, Torminaria und Veronicastrum. Fr manche Gattungsnamen werden in dieser Studie Lektotypen vorgeschlagen; es betrifft die folgenden 14 Opizischen Gattungsnamen - Aethiopis, Amellus, Avenastrum, Drymosphace, Ervilia, Filaginella, Hemisphace, Jacea, Jovibarba, Lamiopsis, Liebichia, Plethiosphace, Pseudolysimachion und Spirocarpus, sowie auch Avenula (Dum.) Dum. und Heuffelia Schur. 
4179449| Der Autor bildet 65 neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen, von denen 58 zur Gattung Gentianella Moench (davon 3 Namen von Sektionen, 36 Namen von Arten und 19 Namen von Unterarten), 1 zur Gattung Gentianopsis Ma und 6 zur Gattung Comastoma (Wettst.) Tokoyuni gehren. Die Rangstufe wurde in einem Falle gendert. Bei jedem neu vorgeschlagenen Namen wird ein vollstndiger literarischer Hinweis auf das Basionym angegeben; im Falle einer unterschiedlichen Rangstufe zwischen der neu vorgeschlagenen Kombination und ihrem Basinonym wird auch das Synonym des zugehrigen Basionym in der vom Autor angenommenen Rangstufe angefhrt. 
4180009| 94 new nomenclatural combinations are proposed, resulting mostly from the study of taxonomic problems on the generic level. The reasons for the acceptance of the generic rank are given in the case of Acetosa, Pulegium and of some sections of Orobanche s. l. and Silene s. l. The taxonomic rank of Gentiana blepharophora Bordzi. from the Caucasus has been revised and the taxon is classified as a subspecies of Gentianopsis ciliata. Nomenclatural problems of not numbered "species" in Hoffmann's "Flora Deutschlands" from 1800 are demonstrated on the example of Armeria elongata. /// 94 neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen sind vorgeschlagen, grsstenteils auf Grund der Revision der Gattungsbegrenzung von verschiedenen taxonomischen Gruppen der Bltenpflanzen. Drei oder mehr neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen werden in folgenden Gattungen vorgeschlagen: Acetosa Mill., Bromopsis Fourr., Chamaesyce S. F. Gray, Elytrigia Desv., Eremogone Fenzl, Grammica Lour., Klasea Cass., Oberna Adans., Otites Adans., Phalaroides Wolf, Phelipanche Pomel, Tithymalus Gaertn. Erluternde Anmerkungen sind zu einigen taxonomischen oder nomenklatorischen Lsungen beigefgt. Acetosa Mill. ist eine charakteristische Artengruppe nicht nur vom morphologischen und chemischen Gesichtspunkten aus, aber auch wegen ihrer karyologischen Verhltnisse - speziell durch ihre sehr breite Palette von verschiedenen Chromosomengrundzahlen und weiters noch durch ihre genetische Isolierung von Vertretern der Gruppe Rumex s. s.; deshalb wird Acetosa als eine taxonomisch berechtigte Gattung anerkannt. Die Kombination Armeria elongata subsp. serpentini (Gauckl.) Holub 1960 muss verndert werden, weil das Epitheton "elongata" nicht ein Artepitheton bei Hoffmann im J. 1800 vorstellt und weil in der Rangstufe der Art das Epitheton "vulgaris" einen Vorzug vor ihm hat. Carex curvula subsp. rosae Gilomen stellt in Hinsicht auf ihren morphologischen, anatomischen, kologischen und phytogeographischen Charakter einen gut unterscheidbaren Taxon vor, der die Bewertung als eine Kleinart eher verdient. Dagegen zeigte sich die kaukasische Gentiana blepharophora Bordzi. 1912 nach der Revision ihrer Unterscheidungsmerkmale als ein gegen Gentianopsis ciliata sehr schwach morphologisch differenzierter Taxon (unterscheidbar eher in ganzen Populationen als in einzelnen Individuen); sie wird deshalb als eine. Unterart zu Gentianopsis ciliata eingereiht. Kurz sind auch die Probleme der Einteilung der Gattung Silene sensu amplo in natrlichere Gattungen erwhnt. Der Autor vermutet, dass hier die entsprechende Klassifikazion eher durch die Einteilung dieser riesigen Gattung erreicht wird als durch das Einschliessen von weiteren taxonomischen Gruppen, wie es speziell in der letzten Zeit oft durchgefhrt wird. Einzelne von der Silene ausgeschiedene Gattungen sind untereinander sicher nicht vollstndig vergleichbar; dies geht aber vom Charakter der Entwicklung der einzelnen Gruppen hervor. Zum Beispiel Otites Adans. ist ein gutes Beispiel von einer "Trend-Gattung", in welcher ihre Gattungsunter-scheidbarkeit (hier eine biologische und auf sie anknpfende morphologische Differenzierung) sich allmhlich in der ganzen Serie der Arten erst entwickelt; die Gruppe als ein Ganzes ist charakteristisch mit ihrer einlinienartigen Evolutionstendenz; aber kein gemeinsames (Unterscheidungs-) Gattungsmerkmal existiert fr alle Arten dieser Gruppe. Dagegen die Gattungsunter-scheidbarkeit von Pleconax Raf. ist morphologisch und karyologisch schon vllig entwickelt und das gilt wie fr die ganze Gruppe, so auch fr alle eingereihten Arten, die alle gemeinsame Gattungsmerkmale besitzen. Die Sektion Inflatae (Boiss.) Chowdhuri der Gattung Silene - mit S. vulgaris (Moench) Garcke als ihrem typischen Reprsentant - bildet in dieser Gattung auch eine selbstndige Gruppe; ihr Ausscheiden als eine Gattung Oberna Adans. mchte die Heterogenitt der breitaufgefassten Gattung Silene etwas vermindern. Die Gattung Orobanche s. l. zerfllt von morphologischen und karyologischen Gesichtspunkten aus in einige Gruppen; ihre elementre morphologische Unterschiede sind in Prsenz oder Absenz der Vorbltter und im Kelchbau. Die Hauptentwicklungsrichtung ist hier durch einen ber-gang von gestielten Blten mit zwei Vorblttern auf dem Stiele und einem regelmssigen Kelch mit 5 Zhnen zu ungestielten Blten ohne Vorbltter und mit einem zygomorphischen aus zwei Teilen zusammengestellten Kelch gegeben. Die morphologischen Unterschiede werden noch von den karyologischen Unterschieden begleitet (u. zw. in den Chromosomengrundzahlen und in der Ploidie-Stufe) und weiters auch durch die Lage der Entwicklungszentren von einigen nchstverwandten Gruppen (wie im Falle Myzorrhiza und Trionychon) in geographisch sehr entfernten Gebieten. Deshalb der Autor erkennt im Umkreis von Orobanche s. l. neben Orobanche L. 1753 noch Thalesia Raf. 1818, Myzorrhiza Philippi 1857 und Phelipanche Pomel 1874 als berechtigte Gattungen. hnlicherweise wird die Gattung Pulegium Mill. als selbstndig angenommen, und zwar wegen ihrer morphologischen, karyologischen und genetischen Unterschiede. Zwei Zitationen der Artennamen, die im Index Kewensis unterlassen wurden, sind beigefgt. 
4181347|Species richness, species composition and standing crop were studied in a limestone grassland in northern Switzerland after 13 and 15 years of experimental management with 6 management regimes differing in form, time and frequency of biomass removal. The management regimes with a cut at least every 2nd year had a higher species number per
4181550|A review of the vegetation of Greece, following the hierarchical system of four main syntaxonomic levels (association, alliance, order, class) is presented and the correspondence of the high-ranked syntaxa with the Habitat Types included in Annex I of the Directive 92/43/EEC has been prepared. The syntaxonomic list of the vegetation units of Greece (up to alliance level) is composed of 41 classes, 56 orders, and 91 alliances. Of the 226 Habitat Types listed in Annex I of Directive 92/43/EEC, 111 different Habitat Types are present in Greece, of which 26 are Priority Types. The establishment of a syntaxonomic typology for the Habitat Types recorded in Greece is essential for the sake of vegetation mapping and nature conservation. A habitat coding system, as applied in Spain, is proposed for Greece for mapping purposes.
4180971| The paper presents some data on the weed vegetation of soya bean fields in lowlands and on the slopes of the Changbaishan Mts., in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Two plant communities, Acalypho australis-Digitarietum pectiniformis Dostlek, Kolbek et Jarolmek 1990 and Cephalonoploso segetii-Geranietum eriostemonii Dostlek, Kolbek et Jarolmek 1990 are described and their syntaxonomy briefly discussed. 
4181138|A species of Pseudolaelia (Orchidaceae) from Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described as new to science.
4181540|A synopsis of high-rank syntaxa of scree vegetation with an accompanying list of plant communities is presented. The classification of scree vegetation in only one broadly conceived class, the Thlaspietea rotundifolii, throughout Europe is a new concept. The vegetation on screes was classified into 8 major groups (17 orders and 42 alliances) according to their altitudinal range and the chemistry of the parent material. Brief information on ecological conditions, phytogeographical patterns, and altitudinal distribution are given. The characteristics and important diagnostic taxa for each alliance and order classified within the Thlaspietea rotundifolii are given.
4180900| Pyrus  amphigenea Domin ex Dostlek is described on the basis of field observations and experimental results. The description of juvenile plants is also given. The distribution is believed to be more extensive than is apparent from the available herbarium specimens. 
4179875|New nomenclatural combinations are validated for fifteen taxa belonging to the genera Danthonia, Stipa, Lolium, Phippsia, Elymus, Schoenoplectus and Allium.
4181469|Differences in the numbers of stamens and styles per flower are conspicuous features of variation in North American hawthorns (Crataegus L.). Variation in stamen number between individuals is discontinuous, with modes of approximately 20 and 10 (or fewer). In North American black-fruited section Douglasii Loudon the 10-stamen morphotype is exclusively polyploid, whereas the 20-stamen morphotype comprises both diploids and polyploids. Polyploidy is associated with apospory, self-fertility, and varying degrees of pollen sterility. Variation in stamen number may also be correlated with variation in distribution, phenology, leaf shape, and other features of floral morphology, leading to recognition of taxa at the specific or infraspecific level. Comparable variation in stamen number is virtually unknown in Eurasian hawthorns, as in the majority of flowering plants. In section Douglasii stamen number morphotypes have been recognized as either varieties or species; although correlations between stamen number and other features are not as straightforward as was previously surmised, the higher rank appears to be appropriate. These data on breeding system and morphological variation may be explainable in terms of hypotheses linking gametophytic apomixis, polyploidization, and optimal strategies for pollen dispersal.
4179889|The crowns of mature sample trees of Acer campstre L. and Carpinus betulus L. growing in a closed forest served for the determination of water content in leaves, of specific leaf area and stomatal density. Three layers were taken into account, the position of the leaf with regard to the exposure of the particular portion of the crown, leaf insertion within the limb, and changes in the course of the growing period.
4180396| Plants gathered in Star Brno (1979) - classified under the genus Chenopodium L. and having K (2n) = 54 - are hybrids. Chenopodium strictum Roth (n = 18) and Chenopodium suecicum J. Murr (n = 9) are probably parental species. Hybridization may have been linked with amphidiploidy. 
4179532|The present paper deals with the results of cytological examination of a collection of original species of the genus Rosa. The ascertainment of chromosome counts in 64 individuals belonging to 24 taxa is given. For 8 species and 4 varieties the chromosome counts are published for the first time. In 31 plants meiosis during the microsporogenesis has been also examined.
4179797| Dieser Beitrag bringt Ergebnisse der phytoznotisch-kologischen Forschung submontaner Talauenwlder des Arunco silvestris-Alnetum glutinosae Tx. 1957 in der Tschechischen Sozialistischen Republik. Es wurden zwei Subassoziationen unterschieden: 1. das Arunco-Alnetum crepidetosum paludosae subass. nova mit langfristig vernsstem bis versumpftem Oberboden und ungnstigem Bodenluftregime und 2. das Arunco-Alnetum mercurialietosum perennis subass. nova mit frischem bis feuchtem Oberboden und gnstigem Bodenluftregime. Die Artenzusammensetzung dieser Gesellschaften ist aus Tab. 1 ersichtlich. /// The paper discusses the phytocoenological and ecological characteristics of the Arunco silvestris-Alnetum glutinosae Tx. 1957 in the Czech Socialist Republic, (western part of Czechoslovakia). This community represents an alluvial forest of the suballiance Alnion glutinoso-incanae in valleys of the submontane beech-forest zone. It is characterized by the dominance of Alnus glutinosa in the tree layer and by a high proportion of hygrophilous species in the herb layer. According to the floristic composition and soil conditions, two subassociations are distinguished: 1. Arunco silvestris-Alnetum glutinosae crepidetosum paludosae subass. nova (differential species: Crepis paludosa, Caltha palustris, Cardamine amara) on soils which are often wet to water-logged, with a high groundwater table (anmoorgley, nassgley), 2. Arunco silvestris-Alnetum glutinosae mercurialietosum perennis subass. nova (differential species: Mercurialis perennis, Phyteuma spicatum, Ranunculus lanuginosus, Lunaria rediviva, Campanula latifolia, Actaea spicata) on fresh to moist, well drained and aerated soils (braunerde-gley). The geographical distribution of this association is discussed, and a brief comparison is made with analogous Central European alluvial forest communities. 
4181051|Four species of the Fruticosae group of the genus Potentilla occur in Pakistan and Kashmir - P. rigida, P. arbuscula, P. dryadanthoides and P. ochreata. The diagnostic characters of P. ochreata Lindley have been overlooked since its first publication and we propose its re-instatement.
4181370| Two species of the genus Dorycnium with the most northern distribution reach the absolute northern limit of their distribution areas in the Czech Republic. Dorycnium germanicum, a less ecologically plastic and more xerothermic species, covers a compact area in south Moravia, connected with its occurrence in Lower Austria. Dorycnium herbaceum, an ecologically more tolerant species, has its primary distribution area in south-east Moravia; this is connected with the Slovak part of the area of this species; secondary occurrences are scattered throughout other parts of Moravia and Bohemia. The distribution of both species was evaluated, using 23 herbarium collections. Climatic characteristics are provided for 54 climatic and ombrometric stations from the distribution area of both species. In the Czech Republic D. germanicum represents the Illyrian-Noric migration element while D. herbaceum represents the Carpathian one. There is a clear climatic differentiation between the localities of both species: D. germanicum occurs in dryer and warmer regions than D. herbaceum. An introgression zone was identified in the vicinity of the town of Uhersk Hradit and the area south-east of this town. This zone coincides with the area where most of the identification problems with these species occurred. 
4180016| In der botanischen Literatur werden oft neue Kombinationen und neue Namen ungltig publiziert, weil die Vorschriften des Art. 33 d. Int. Codes nicht eingehalten werden. Die Verfasser verfolgen diese Frage bei der Gattung Actinotaenium Teiling 1954 (Fam. Desmidiaceae, Klasse Conjugatophyceae der Grnalgen), weisen auf die Unklarheiten und Unrichtigkeiten in ihrer Systematik hin und sind bestrebt, diese zu verbessern, soweit es bei heutigem Zustand der Kenntnisse mglich ist. Im Artikel ist ein neues Taxon Actinotaenium messikommeri Rika et Pouzar beschrieben und folgende neue Kombinationen verffentlicht: Actinotaenium adelochondrum var. kriegeri (Messik.) Rika, A. angulatum (W. et G. S. West) Rika et Pouzar, A. angulatum var. brasiliense (Grnblad) Rika et Pouzar, A. cordanum (Brb.) Rika et Pouzar, A. gelidum (Wittr.) Rika, A. heterotaphridium (W. et G. S. West) Rika et Pouzar und A. hibernicum (W. West) Rika. /// New combinations and new names are often published in the botanical literature without regard to the regulations of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature and especially of Art. 33; hence such names are often not validly published. The authors take as an example Telling's work (1954) on Algae of the genus Actinotaenium (Desmidiaceae, Conjugatophyceae). Teiling's work is very important from the taxonomic point of view but as regards nomenclature it is exceptionally confused and often completely erroneous. There are about 50 new combinations and new names proposed, the valid publication of which is - at least partly - debatable. We are now attempting to rectify the situation and publish most of the names treated by him in accordance with regulations of the Code. In some cases taxa are clarified as far as the present stte of knowledge allows from the taxonomic point of view. The authors believe that the regulations of Art. 33 of the Code and especially of the second paragraph are not clear in some points, and allow several interpretations. There is an urgent need to remove this ambiguity. The article regulating the valid publication of new combinations and new names which rules that a new combination or a new name is not validly published if there is not a direct and full reference to basionym (or replaced synonym), its author, the place of publication etc., should not be interpreted absolutely rigorously and strictly. In the authors' opinion it suffices, if there is a shortened reference to original publication immediately after the new combination (or the new name), for instance in the very frequent way of quoting the basionym (or synonym), the author, year of publication, page and illustration, while the full citation of the work is left for the list of references. If the regulations of Art. 33,  2 were to be interpreted too strictly, a multitude of new combinations and new names published earlier would remain not validly published because the shortened way is now very often used in some branches of botany (especially algology). The number of so invalidated names in Teiling's work is about 50. The invalidation of these names to such a large extent is not required because of the necessary clearness of taxonomy and confidence in nomenclature. On the other hand, if all the data for valid publication of new combinations or new names would be required in full, the text would become excessively long, whereas now the text is required to be as concise as possible. (In most cases the data would even be repeated several times.) 
4179773| Die Pflanzengesellschaften des Verbandes Cynosurion Tx. 47 wurden unter Anwendung der Methode der multilateralen Differenziation dokumentiert und klassifiziert. Alluviale Fettweiden wurden in den Unterverband Lolio-Cynosurion suball. nova und magere Bergweiden in den Unterverband Polygalo-Cynosurion suball. nova eingereiht. Insgesamt wurden 4 Assoziationen, 12 Subassoziationen und 28 Varianten festgestellt. Die einzelnen Syntaxa werden in einer bersichtstabelle zusammengefasst und von synkologischen, syngenetischen, synmorphologischen, syntaxonomischen und synchorologischen Gesichtspunkten beschrieben. Bei der Gegenberstellung der verffentlichten Gesellschaften in Europa wird die Verbreitung mancher Einheiten auch in anderen Gebieten als in den Westkarpaten festgestellt. Ganz kurz werden die verwandtschaftlichen Beziehungen des Cynosurion zu Kontaktgesellschaften behandelt. /// The proposed classification of pasture communities of the Cynosurion-alliance in the broad area of the Western Carpathians has been accomplished on the basis of multilateral differentiation. The results of the revision and synthesis are presented in a constancy table including 91 tables with 971 relevs. In addidion, about 120 relevs and species lists have been used. All phytosociological items are documented by adequate observations and explanations, and also recorded in a map. Until a full synthesis of related alliances is made, it will be impossible to determine delimitation and preference species groups for the Cynosurion; Lenotodon autumnalis, Prunella vulgaris, Trifolium repens and Cynosurus cristatus can be regarded as possible diagnostic species. These species show the highest mean constancy within the framework of the Cynosurion. For six floristically related alliances, a preliminary list of positively differentiating species which are missing or only scarcely represented in the Cynosurion, is put forward. Using floristic differentiation, two new suballiances have been delimited, viz. the Lolio-Cynosurion, comprising the fertile pastures on flood-plains and the Polygalo-Cynosurion, comprising poor mountain communities. These suballiances are further divided into 4 associations, with 12 subassociations and 28 variants. For each subassociation, the synonyms used in the area of the Western Carpathians are presented, and the most important synecological characteristics, e. g. climate, relief, altitude and soils, are briefly dealt with. Emphasis has been laid on mutual replacement and affinity of communities, zoobiotic factors, economic value, physiognomy, dominant and subdominant species, mean species number and syntaxonomic characteristics. Finally, the distribution of individual communities in the Carpathians and/or other European regions has been summarized. 
4180073| In der vorliegenden Studie werden die Asterothyriaceae allgemein charakterisiert. Es wird nachgewiesen, dass auch die Gattungen Aulaxina Fe, Gomphillus Nyl. und Solorinella Anzi Glieder der Familie sind. Morphologie und Bedeutung der Hyphophoren - asexuelle Frucktkrper der Mycobionten - und den Hyphophoren homologen, ertmalig beschriebenen Pseudisidien werden behandelt. Eine taxonomische Gruppierung der zur Familie gehrenden Gattungen wird vorgenommen. Ferner wird eine kurze systematische bersicht der Gattungen der Asterothyriaceen gegeben und durch Bestimmungsschlssel ergnzt. Folgende neue Taxa werden im einzelnen aufgestellt: Calenia microcarpa sp. n., C. monospora sp. n., Gyalideopsis alnicola Noble et Vzda sp. n., G. bispora sp. n., G. lambinonii sp. n., G. ochroleuca sp. n., G. perminuta sp. n., G. philippiae sp. n., G. rubescens sp. n., G. solorinellaeformis sp. n., Tricharia cretacea sp. n., T. pallida sp. n., T. plana sp. n., T. similis sp. n. und T. substipitata sp. n. /// The family Asterothyriaceae W. Wats. ex R. Sant. originally included six genera: Asterothyrium Mll. Arg., Psorotheciopsis Rehm em. R. Sant., Calenia Mll. Arg. em. R. Sant., Gyalectitium Mll. Arg., Echinoplaca Fe and Tricharia Fe em. R. Sant; Gyalidea Lett. ex Vzda and Gyalideopsis Vzda are later additions to this assemblage. Because the type of Psorotheciopsis, P. premnella (Mll. Arg.) R. Sant. is not in any way related to the family, this genus has to be excluded and those species, originally placed in Psorotheciopsis, which do have affinities with Asterothyriaceae are transferred to the genus Linhartia Sacc. et Sydow. In the present study Aulaxina Fe, Gomphillus Nyl. and Solorinella Anzi are newly recognised as belonging to Asterothyriaceae. Hyphophores, organs of asexual reproduction of the mycobiont, previously only described for a few species of Tricharia and Echinoplaca, have been noted and described for other genera of the family. The so-called isidia of two species of Gyalideopsis have been studied in detail and found to be an entirely new lichen organ for asexual reproduction here termed an pseudisidium. On the basis of apothecial structure the genera of the Asterothyriaceae can be segregated into four groupings which are distinctive in their taxonomy and phylogeny. All the genera are carefully summarized and a key for their identification is included. In addition keys for the species of the following genera: Gyalidea, Gyalideopsis, Linhartia and Tricharia, are given. The new taxa described in this paper are: Calenia microcarpa sp. n., C. monospora sp. n., Gyalideopsis alnicola Noble et Vzda sp. n., G. bispora sp. n., G. lambinonii sp. n., G. ochroleuca sp. n., G. perminuta sp. n., G. philippiae sp. n., G. rubescens sp. n., G. solorinellaeformis sp. n., Tricharia cretacea sp. n., T. pallida sp. n., T. plana sp. n., T. similis sp. n. und T. substipitata sp. n. A compendium of interesting new finds and observations is also added for completeness. 
4179645|A new association: Blechno serrulati-Acoeloraphetum Wrightii, endemic in W. Cuba, is described and the syntaxonomy and synecology discussed.
4181265|The aim of this study was to investigate whether resource availability affects the degree of physiological integration and the growth pattern of interconnected ramets in the clonal plant Maianthemum bifolium (L.) F.W. Schmidt (Liliaceae), a rhizomatous herb of European forests, by studying it at two contrasting South Swedish beech forest sites termed "poor" and "rich". The degree of physiological integration was studied by tracing the pattern of
4179758| In 1963, 1964 and 1965, a comparative ecological study was made of the distribution of mineral elements in the soil and phytomass of some Stipa species, viz. Stipa capillata L., S. pulcherrima C. Koch, S. joannis elak., S. dasyphylla er., and S. stenophylla er. in various locations of Central Europe. In all species and sites studied, chemical analyses of the soil, fresh phytomass (shoots and roots) and dead phytomass were made, together with relevant statistical evaluation. Individual Stipa species differ according to their mineral composition. In comparison with fresh green plant material, the old dead plant material shows a marked increase in ash, calcium, and natrium content. Potassium, nitrogen, and phosphorus show a decrease in the dead plant material. The mineral composition of the roots differs considerably from that of green plant parts: the roots have much higher ash, phosphorus, calcium and natrium content, and lower organic matter, nitrogen, and potassium content. On the basis of the data collected, an attempt was made to estimate cycling of the individual mineral elements. 
4179872| Im Rahmen regionaler Untersuchungen ber die Ackerunkrautgesellschaften und ihre Standorte im nordslowakischen Bergland wurden coenologische Artengruppen erarbeitet, zahlreiche montane Vegetationseinheiten mit eigenstndiger Artengruppenkombination abgegrenzt und auf Feldfrucht-bedingte Vegetationsunterschiede hingewiesen. Ein Bestimmungsschlssel ermglicht es, anhand coenologischer und kologischer Kriterien die ermittelten montanen Ackerunkrautgesellschaften zu erkennen. Die Kartierung bestimmter Unkrautarten oder Ackerstandorte bzw. eine Wuchsraumgliederung sind wichtige Anwendungsbereiche der Ergebnisse. /// The aim of this study is to widen the knowledge of weed communities of fields in Slovakia, and thus to contribute to investigation of less known weed communities in mountains of Central Europe. At the beginning, a general view is given of the climate and habitats of fields in the montane belt of the Western Carpathians, northern area of Slovakia (Fig. 1, Tabs. 1-4). Applying the results of 200 records, the phytocenological species-groups and their ecological explanlation are described (Figs. 2-7) together with the different weed communities of cereals and root-crops in nutrient poor, mesic and relatively rich habitats (Tabs. 6-10). The following units of plant communities have been found and described: a) in relatively poor sites: Trifolio-Scleranthetum Moraviu 43, Violo-Scleranthetum Pass. ass. nova provis,. Chenopodium-Spergula-community, Galeopsio-Sperguletum Pass. ass. nova; b) in mesic sites: Papaveretum argemones (Libb. 32) Krusem. et Vlieg. 39, Consolida-Papaver rhoeas-community, Myosotido- and Alchemillo-Sonchetum arvensis Pass. ass. novae, Echinochloo-Setarietum Krusem. et Vlieg. in Siss. Vlieg. et Westh. 40, Panico-Chenopodietum Br.-Bl. 21, Galeopsio-Chenopodietum Oberd. 57, Setario-Fumarietum J. Tx. 55, Thlaspio-Fumarietum Grs 66, Lapsano-Fumarietum Meisel 73, Echinochloa-Veronica persica-community, Euphorbio- and Lapsano-Veronicetum persicae Pass. ass. nov.; c) in
4181179|The correct names, author citations and nomenclatural types of the syntaxa names are established for the principal ranks above the association. These syntaxa are Ulicion minoris Malcuit 1929, Ericion umbellatae Br.-Bl., P. Silva, Rozeira et Fontes 1952, Genisto-Vaccinion Br.-Bl. 1926, Ulicetalia minoris Quantin 1935 and Calluno-Ulicetea Br.-Bl. et R. Tx. 1943.
4179736| Die vorliegende Studie, die erste aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae), enthlt den allgemeinen Teil (Material, historische bersicht, morphologische Charakteristik, verwandtschaftliche Beziehungen, phytogeographische Charakteristik), sowie Bemerkungen zu den monotypischen Gattungen dieser Subfamilie (Cryptocolea Schust., Cryptocoleopsis Amak., Diplocolea Amak., Horikawaella Hatt. et Amak., Scaphopyllum Inoue und auch Hattoria Schust. mit unsicherer taxonomischer Stellung). Ausser den 6 obenerwhnten monotypischen Gattungen stellte der Verfasser noch zwei andere Gattungen zu den Jungermannioideae, u. zw. Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. und Nardia S. Gray corr. Carring. Diese Gattungen sind in der vorliegenden Studie allgemein charakterisiert; ihre Arten werden in den folgenden Studien behandelt. /// The present study represents the first part of studies of the subfamily Jungermannioideae. It includes: 1. Historical outline of the conception of the family Jungermanniaceae. This family, in the author's opinion, includes 7 subfamilies (Chandonanthoideae, Lophozioideae, Mesoptychioideae, Notoscyphoideae, Jungermannioideae, Jamesonielloideae and Mylioideae); the subfamily Gottschelioideae belongs according to Grolle (1971) to the subfamily Jamesonielloideae, the subfamily Scaphophylloideae is connected by the author with the subfamily Jungermannioideae. The subfamily Jungermannioideae contains 7-8 genera: Jungermannia, Nardia, Cryptocolea (monotypic), Cryptocoleopsis (monotypic), Diplocolea (monotypic), Scaphophyllum (monotypic), Horikawaella (monotypic) and Hattoria (monotypic, the position unclear). 2. Historical outline of the conception of the two major genera: Jungermannia and Nardia. 3. Morphology, relationships and phytogeography of the subfamily Jungermannioideae. 4. Key to the genera of Jungermannioideae. 5. Notes on the monotypic genera. 6. Synonymy and description of the genus Jungermannia L. emend. Dum., key to the subgenera. 7. Synonymy and description of the genus Nardia S. Gray corr. Carring. 
4180056| A new classification is presented of plant communities with predominant Potentilla reptans, in anthropogenic habitats of villages in Western Slovakia, earlier described as the Potentilletum reptantis Eli 1974. Species poor communities in drier soils of the roadside and embankments are retained in the association Potentilletum reptantis Eli 1974 emend. Species richer communities in relatively moist ruderal habitats are separated as a new association, the Prunello-Potentilletum reptantis Eli 1978. 
4181366|In the extent to which it is used, the concept of the potential natural vegetation (PNV) is one of the most successful novelties in vegetation science over the last decades. However, previous applications of the concept have shown that the theoretical principles were used inconsistently or interpreted in an incorrect sense. The present problems in application (which become evident when visualizing historical aspects of the concept) mainly result from (a) inconsistent treatment of the construction criteria; (b) failure to distinguish between the "potential natural vegetation", the "reconstructed natural vegetation" and the vegetation developing during succession, (c) the lack of a precise definition for reference terms to construct potential natural vegetation (e.g. treating reversible vs. irreversible changes of vegetation). For a sensible application of the concept it is suggested (a) to construct the potential natural vegetation on the basis of natural site conditions as well as permanently effective site changes as a consequence of human impact, (b) to consider the PNV to be in balance with all site conditions taken as basis for its construction. In practice, however, the construction basis may also derive from a particular question underlying the making of a PNV-map. A suggestion for a re-definition of the term "potential natural vegetation" as well as a key for PNV-mapping (valid for landscapes of Northern Germany) are given.
4180093| Diagnoses of the following 6 new lichen species are presented: Bacidia Vzda sp. n. Buellia multispora Kalb et Vzda sp.n., Huilia circumnigrata Vzda sp.n., Pyrenopsis sojakii Vzda sp.n., Ramalina euxini Vzda sp.n. and Strangospora senecionis Lambinon et Vzda sp.n. The isotypes will be distributed in fasc. 67 of the "Lichenes selecti exsiccati" (issued by the Botanical Institute, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, Prhonice near Praha). 
4179518| Die Anwendung der Typenmethode als Hilfsmethode der phytosoziologischen Nomenklatur wurde eingehender geklrt. Einzelne Beispiele der Festlegung richtiger Namen fr einige Vegetationseinheiten wurden angefhrt und die Anwendung der Typenmethode in Regeln gefasst. /// The type-method is an auxillary method of phytosociological nomenclature. The standardization of each individual name of vegetation units by a nomenclatural type (typus) is the principle of this method. After syntaxonomic changes of the unit the nomenclatural type helps to determine its correct name according to the rules of priority. The nomenclatural type of an association or unit of lower rank is a record (relev) of a single stand effectively published either in the original diagnosis of the unit or earlier, but completely cited in the original diagnosis, and simultaneously indicated as the nomenclatural type (holotype) or later chosen from the original diagnosis and designated as the lectotype. The nomenclatural type of a higher unit is a validly published typified unit of the next lower principal rank completely cited in the original diagnosis and simultaneously indicated as the nomenclatural type (holotype) or later chosen from the original diagnosis and designated as the lectotype. 
4179484|The results of cytotaxonomical research in Lactuca quercina L. and Lactuca chaixii Vill. demonstrate that these taxa are closely related. Both have the same chromosome number 2n = 18, which is different from all previous counts in the subgenus Lactucopsis (n = 8) and their karyotypes are extremely similar if not identical.
4179696|The history of the discovery and results of authentic investigations of Coleanthus subtilis (Tratt.) Seidl. in the Amur Basin are presented. Distribution, ecological requirements, morphology of particular organs, dispersal on the riverbanks, and associated vascular plants of Coleanthus subtilis are described in detail.
4179958|The Theory of Biological Equilibrium (TBE) is applied to the classification of ecosystems. It is shown that one of the basic factors, the habitat-type, governs the distribution of species through the subfactors climate and substrate in accordance with the Theory of Tolerance. Groups of species can be distinguished which show a very similar distribution, and combinations of species in these groups form the kengroups of classification units, or associations. Because the habitat-type of associations is often fragmented, the classification procedures can be applied to explaint the natural extinction of species, as well as the probability of species extinction through man's actions upon biocenoses.
4181105| The semi-desert zone of the northern Precaspian Lowland is distinguished by the occurrence of closed-drainage depressions (limans) which are filled with melted snow in spring and usually dry out in summer. The plant communities of the above limans are discussed in this paper, along with descriptions of syntaxa belonging to the following classes: Phragmitetea R. Tx. et Prsg. 1942, Bolboschoenetea maritimi Vicherek et R. Tx. 1969 ex R. Tx. et Hlb. 1971, Molinio-Arrhenatheretea R. Tx. 1937 em. Mirk. et Naumova 1986, Asteretea tripolii Westhoff et Beeftink 1962 in Beeftink 1962, Festuco-Limonietea Karpov et Mirk. 1985, Polygono-Artemisietea austriacae Mirk., Sakh. et Solm. in Mirk. et al. 1986. 
4181400|The significance of dynamic processes of individual genets/ramets for the spatial pattern of plant species and community structure is discussed. It is suggested that under a different mode of competition (symmetric vs. asymmetric), spatial distribution of individuals, initial size distribution at the establishment stage and boundary conditions as recruitment influence differently the species coexistence pattern. It is therefore important to consider the mode of competition for the study of community structure. To know the mode and degree of intra- and interspecific competition, the dynamic processes of individual genets/ramets must be studied by following the growth, mortality and recruitment of each genet/ramet of each component species in a plant community. The models and methods of plant population ecology are therefore useful also for plant community ecology.
4180895| The frequency of diploids and polyploids in the flora and plant communities of the Temnosmreinov dolina valley (High Tatras) and the valley dolina Siedmich prameov (Beliansk Tatry mts.) is discussed in connection with environmental conditions and life forms. 
4179596|A new subspecies of Trisetum spicatum (L.) Richt. has been described from Borneo.
4181323|Three species and one genus of the Trichotheliaceae are described as new and illustrated. Polycornum rubrofuscum gen. and sp. nov. is related to the genera Porina and Trichothelium, but differs in having complex horn-like appendages growing from the entire surface of its perithecia, giving them a tomentose appearance. Trichothelium rubellum is characterized by red or brown perithecia and 5-7 white membranaceous setae arranged in a star pattern around the ostiole. Trichothelium nanum is characterized by 3-septate spores, small black perithecia, and white setae.
4179787| Das Dentario enneaphylli-Fagetum Oberdorfer ex W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960 umfasst montane Tannen-Buchenwlder der Silikatbden. Es ist in Mitteleuropa, in den Gebirgen des Bhmischen Massivs und der westlichen Karpaten, vor allem auf dem Gebiet der Tschechoslowakei verbreitet. Die Assoziation wurde in drei Subassoziationen gegliedert: Dentario en.-Fagetum typicum W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960, D. e.-F. impatientetosum (Hartmann et Jahn 1967) Moravec (die im Bhmischen Massiv vorkommen und sich kologisch unterscheiden), und D. e. F. salvietosum glutinosae Moravec (in den westlichen Karpaten). Die Zusammensetzung und Verbreitung der Assoziation und ihrer Untereinheiten ist durch umfangreiches Aufnahmematerial und synthetische Tabellen aus der Literatur belegt. /// The montane fir-beech forests on silicate soils of the Bohemian Massive and the western Carpathians belong to the association Dentario enneaphylli-Fagetum Oberdorfer ex W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960. This association is characterized by a relatively rich and constant occurrence of species of Fagetalia and Fagion, and by the differential species group Dentaria enneaphyllos, Festuca altissima and Veronica montana. The tree layer is composed of Fagus sylvatica, Acer pseudoplatanus and Abies alba (recently retreating), in higher altitudes also Picea abies. In old virgin stands this layer reaches up to 30 and to 50 m, for deciduous and needle trees respectively. The herb layer is relatively rich in species. In older stands it has a high cover degree. The shrub and moss layer are only fragmentary or even quite absent. The association is divided into three subassociations. The Dentario en.-Fagetum impatientetosum (Hartmann et Jahn 1967) Moravec is characterized by the differential species group Stellaria nemorum, Petasites albus, Circaea alpina, Thelypteris polypodioides and Ranunculus lanuginosus. It prefers cooler and moister sites. In this subassociation Picea abies was present with higher constancy and dominance also in natural forests. The Dentario en.-Fagetum typicum W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960 is negatively characterized; the differential species groups of the other subassociations are absent or have a low constancy. This subassociation occurs in dryer and warmer sites. The Dentario en.-Fagetum salvietosum glutinosae Moravec is characterized by the species group Salvia glutinosa, Tithymalus amygdaloides, Glechoma hirsuta and Isopyrum thalictroides. This difference is caused chorologically as the subassociation occurs only in the Carpathians. On the contrary both Dentario en.-Fagetum impatientetosum and typicum are confined to the territory of the Bohemian Massive. The species composition and its variability in individual territories is documented in synthetic tables of published sets of relevs (ca 200 relevs) as well as the author's as yet unpublished relevs (177 relevs). Originally, the Dentario en.-Fagetum formed a continuous cover of the montane belt in the mountains esk les, umava, Novohradsk hory, Doupovsk hory, Brdy, eskomoravsk vrchovina, in the whole range of the Sudeten Mts. starting with Luick hory and continuing through Jetd, Jizersk hory, Krkonoe, Orlick hory to Hrub Jesenk and Rychlebsk hory, and after a disjunct on further to the east in the western Carpathians - the mountains Moravskoslezsk Beskydy, Hostnsk and Vsetnsk vrchy, Javornky and Bl Karpaty. The eastern distribution limit of the Dentario en.-Fagetum follows the eastern slopes of the mountains Bl Karpaty and Javornky along the valley of the river Vh and crosses the eastern part of the mountanis Javornky and Moravskoslezsk Beskydy to the North. In the Krun hory Mts. the Dentario en.-Fagetum is substituted by another association. In lower mountains the association occupied summit areas and slopes of northern to eastern exposure, or it descended into the slopes of valleys. The Dentario en.-Fagetum represents a zonal vegetation type of the montane belt. Into the submontane belt it descends to cooler and moister habitats caused by exposure or relief. Most stands occur in the altitudinal range from 500 to 1000 m, but the total range reaches from 330 to 1100 m a.s.l. The Dentario en.-Fagetum impatientetosum concentrates between 700 and 1000 m, and the Dentario en.-Fagetum typicum between 400 and 800 m. The Dentario en.-Fagetum salvietosum occurs mostly from 600 to 900 m. The zonal belt of our association is characterized by a mean annual temperature of 4.4 to 7.0C and by mean annual rainfall of 650 to 1300 mm. The Dentario en.-Fagetum primarily occupies slopes. The soils belong to the Centraleuropaean braunerde (meso- to eutrophic variant). On very skeleton-rich weathering products the association penetrates to ranker-braunerde. In exceptional cases it occurs on pararendsina with leached topsoil developed on weathering products of cretaceous sediments. 
4181416|We investigated the carbohydrate concentration plant species naturally growing in habitats with a high risk of oxygen shortage (Senecio aquaticus Hill, Myosotis palustris (L.) L. em. Rchb.) and congeneric species from drier sites (Senecio jacobaea L., Myosotis arvensis (L.) Hill). Plants from the four species were cultivated in either nitrogen-flushed or aerated nutrient solution. Following oxygen shortage in the root environment a two - fourfold increase of carbohydrate content was found in the roots as well as in the shoots of the species examined. Although the tendency in the response of both genera to the hypoxic conditions in the nutrient solution was the same, there were differences in concentration and composition of the water soluble carbohydrates. The flooding tolerant Senecio aquaticus accumulated the highest amounts of carbohydrates, in particular fructans (nearly 60% of the soluble carbohydrates, compared with 30% under aerated conditions). The increasing amount of sugars found under hypoxia-inducing conditions proved that substrate availability was not the limiting factor for survival under wetland conditions.
4180760| The newly described plant community of the association Juncetum alpino-articulati subass. blysmetosum compressi colonizes sandy alluvial deposits in the subriparian tier (at and below annual mean watermark) on the banks of the upper Biela Orava river in the north-western Slovakian Carpathian Mts. at the altitudes of 800 to 850 m. The high content of CaCO
4181089| Ornitogalum macrum Speta, a new species, is described from the akilli-Pass on the road from Akseki to the Bey sehir-Lake in Turkey. It is characterized by its tenderness. Roots turning yellow and concrescente leaves of the bulb speak in favour of a membership to the O. umbellatum group. But the late appearance of the foliage leaves in spring and the lack of ridges on the gynoeceum have hitherto never been found in this connection. There is however an indisputable similarity as to characteristics of the O. undulatum group. The chromosome number is 2n = 54. The interphase nuclei are chromomeric. /// Vom akilli Pass an der Strasse von Akseki zum Beyehirsee in Kleinasien wird die neue Art Ornithogalum macrum Speta beschrieben, die durch ihre Schmchtigkeit auffllt. Gilbende Wurzeln und concrescente Zwiebelbltter sprechen fr die Einreihung in die O. umbellatum-Verwandtschaft, das sehr spte Erscheinen der Bltter im Frhjahr und das Fehlen der Lngsleisten am Fruchtknoten wurde hingegen in dieser Verwandtschaft noch nie registriert. Eine unleugenbare hnlichkeit besteht in manchen Merkmalen zur O. undulatum-Gruppe. Die diploide Chromosomenzahl ist 2n = 54, die Interphasekerne sind chromomerisch. 
4179435|A new species of the genus Albatrellus S. F. Gray (Polyporaceae), A. similis Pouz. spec. nov. is described differing from the closely related Albatrellus ovinus (Schaeff. ex Fr.) Kotl. et Pouz., e.g. in the amyloid spores.
4179759|The relationship between Leuzea DC. and Rhaponticum auct. was studied. The differences between these taxa are shown to be insufficient to justify classification at the generic level. The resulting genus is preliminarily subdivided into seven subgenera. Its correct name is Leuzea DC. 1805. A new subgenus is described and 27 new nomenclatural combinations are proposed including 5 for subgenera, 20 for species and 2 for subspecies.
4181309|The paper deals with the history of vegetation science viewed as a succession of paradigms. Alternative methodological approaches and alternative ways of viewing the elementary parts of vegetation at the coenotic level are replacing each other in the course of time. Vegetation research always involves a simplification of the vegetation objects by means of reduction and generalization. At any level there are certain traditional ways to describe the multiplicity of vegetation structure. According to the association approach, vegetation is mostly reduced to plant communities. The proponents of the continuum approach reduce the vegetation structure to the population level, and aggregate the populations in various ways. According to the ecosystem approach, various functional, more or less self-regulating vegetation elements can be described.
4180611|The survival strategies of Cyperus rotundus L. have been studied in relation to osmotic potential, desiccation rate, bound water and dry matter content. Critical moisture level of the perennating organ, the tubers, is 43% and minimum soil moisture is about 0.4%, for its survival.
4179580|Paulschulzia pseudovolvox (Schulz) Skuja, a member of the Tetrasporales, is recorded for the first time for Czechoslovakia. Amphidinium radiatum Javorn., a member of the Gymnodiniales is recognized. Further information about its variability is supplemented. The algae were studied in two reservoirs.
4180115| Two new species of Phellinus rimosus complex are described, viz. Phellinus coffeatoporus Kotl. et Pouz. from Florida (U.S.A.) characterized by globose spores and Phellinus resinaceus Kotl. et Pouz. from Papua-New Guinea and Australia which is distinguished by a very thick and faintly yellowish tinted spore wall. /// Phellinus coffeatoporus Kotl. et Pouz. und Phellinus resinaceus Kotl. et Pouz. sind als neue Arten beschrieben. Beide gehren in die Gruppe des Phellinus rimosus (Berk.) Pil., die sich durch die grossen gefrbten Sporen sowie durch das Fehlen der Spinulae auszeichnen. Die Hauptmerkmale des Phellinus coffeatoporus Kotl. et Pouz. sind die fast kugeligen Sporen und die dunkel kaffeebraun Farbe der Poren. Diese Art ist nur aus zwei Funden von derselben Lokalitt (Brickell Hammock, Florida) in U.S.A. bekannt. Phellinus resinaceus Kotl. et Pouz. hat die Sporen sehr schwach gelb gefrbt, die Wand der Sporen ist sehr dick und in dem Fruchtkrper befindet sich eine resinose Substanz. Diese Art ist bisher nur aus zwei Lokalitten (Badili, Port Moresby, Papua-New Guinea, und Sydney, Australien) bekannt. 
4179461| The region of Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and the neighbouring countries is important for some groups of the species Lotus L., especially those of the circle of L. corniculatus L. and L. gebelia Vent. The first group is represented by the species L. corniculatus L. with 4 subspecies (3 of which are important for this region), and L. tenuis Waldst. et Kit. which here attains the eastern boundary of the continuous area of distribution, and by the eastern species L. krylovii Schischk. et Serg. and L. rechingeri Chrtkov-ertov. The second group is represented by the species L. gebelia Vent., L. michauxianus Ser. in DC. and L. libanoticus Boiss. their areas of distribution covering mostly those regions. Most of the species show considerable variability within the species. /// Der Artikel handelt von den kritischen Arten aus dem Formenkreis von Lotus corniculatus L. und L. gebelia Vent. aus Iran, Afghanistan, Irag, Pakistan und den angrenzenden Gebieten. Die erste Gruppe wird durch die Arten L. corniculatus L., L. krylovii Schischk. et Serg., L. tenuis Waldst. et Kit. und L. rechingeri Chrtkov-ertov reprsentiert, die zweite Gruppe durch L. gebelia Vent., L. michauxianus Ser. in DC. und L. libanoticus Boiss. In beiden Gruppen ussert sich bei den meisten Arten die Variabilitt durch die Bildung paralleler Reichen von Typen nach dem leitenden Merkmal, besonders nach der Behaarung, der Form des Kelches und der Blttchen. Bei den meisten Merkmalen zeigt sich eine kontinuierliche Variabilitt. In dem aus diesem Gebiet stammenden Material kommen einige neue Typen vor, die in anderen Teilen des Areals nicht festgestellt wurden, es sind dies: L. rechingeri, L. corniculatus subsp. afghanicus, L. corniculatus subsp. fruticosus, L. tenuis var. hirsutus, L. gebelia var. lanatus, L. michanxianus var. glabratus. 
4181322|Several little known or new species of chroococcalean cyanoprokaryotes (Cyanobacteria, Cyanophyceae) of the genera Aphanothece (A. variabilis, A. comasii), Bacularia (B. gracilis), Cyanotetras (C. crucigenielloides) and Cyanokybus (C. venezuelae) were found in Cuban freshwater reservoirs. Their taxonomic descriptions and comparison with related species are presented. The chroococcacean species Cyanokybus venezuelae was originally described by Schiller (1956) from Islas de los Aves near the Venezuelan coast in the Caribbean Sea; it also grows in alkalic, coastal swamps and pools on Cuba. The morphology, variation and life cycle of Cuban populations of this little known species were studied, and its generic delimitation from the genus Chroococcus was found to be taxonomically definable. The Cuban samples, which correspond morphologically and ecologically to the Venezuelan diagnosis, represent the second finding of this species after its description, again in the Caribbean region.
4179589| Es werden 28 Arten von lichenisierten Fungi (Flechten) mit kritischen taxonomischen Hinweisen oder Ergnzungen zu den in der Literatur vorhandenen Beschreibungen, oft mit chorologischen Bemerkungen und Angaben ber die kologischen Verhltnisse ihrer Standorte angefhrt, von denen die nachgenannten Arten und Namenskombinationen neu sind: Verrucaria scabra Vzda sp. n., Geisleria xylophila Vzda sp. n., Toninia steineri Poelt et Vzda sp. n., Pachyascus byssaceus (Vzda) Vzda comb. n. und Micarea gomphillacea (Nyl.) Vzda comb. n. /// Twenty eight species of lichenised Fungi (Lichens) from Czechoslovakia with taxonomical, ecological and geographical notes are given. The following taxa have not been previously reported for Czechoslovakia: Thelidium bryoctonum Th. Fr., Geisleria sychnogonoides Nitschke, Absconditella trivialis (Willey ex Tuck.) Vzda, Thyrea nigritella Lett., Spilonema paradoxum Bornet, Micarea gomphillacea (Nyl.) Vzda, Toninia diffracta (Massal.) Zahlbr., T. kolax Poelt, Varicellaria rhodocarpa (Kbr.) Th. Fr. var. constans Erichs., Lecanora candida (Anzi) Nyl., L. conferta (Duby) Grogn., L. leptacina Sommerf., L. melanophthalma (Ram.) Ram., L. microspora (Arnold) Zahlbr., Parmelia koflerae Clauz. et Poelt, Caloplaca areolata (Zahlbr.) Clauz. ex Vzda, C. epithallina Lynge, C. inconnexa (Nyl.) Zahlbr. and C. oasis (Massal.) Szat. Three species are described as new and two new combinations are made: Verrucaria scabra Vzda sp. n., Geisleria xylophila Vzda sp. n., Toninia steineri Poelt et Vzda sp. n., Pachyascus byssaceus (Vzda) Vzda comb. n. and Micarea gomphillacea (Nyl.) Vzda comb. n. 
4179659| The group of species usually referred to Chamaenerion is maintained as forming a separate genus; as Chamaenerion (auct.) is an illegitimate name, Chamerion (Raf. 1818) Raf. 1833 must be used as the correct name of the group. At present Chamerion includes 9 species; remarks on the nomenclature of C. angustifolium (L., em.) Holub and C. dodonaei (Vill.) Holub are given. /// Der Verwandtschaftskreis von Epilobium angustifolium L. zeigt sich in der Gattung Epilobium L. s. 1. als eine gut abgegrenzte Gruppe, die sowohl mit einem Merkmalskomplex und genetischer Isolation als auch mit seiner selbstndigen phylogenetisch-florogenetischen Entwicklung gut charakterisiert ist. Diese taxonomische Gruppe ist deshalb hier als eine selbstndige Gattung anerkannt. Fr diese Gattung ist es nicht mglich den Namen Chamaenerion zu bentzen, weil dieser Name bei ersten Autoren, die ihn angewendet haben, vollkommen identisch mit Epilobium L. 1753 war. Eine abweichende taxonomische Anwendung von Chamaenerion im Sinne der heutigen taxonomischen Auffassung beginnt mit S. F. Gray in 1821; weiter folgten z. B. Spach im J. 1835, Kosteletzky im J. 1844 und Schur im J. 1853. Taxonomische Identitt mit Epilobium L. 1753 bei den Autoren kurz nach dem Anfang der wissenschaftlichen Nomenklatur fhrt den Verfasser dieser Studie zur Ablehnung eines Konservierungsantrages des Namens Chamaenerion im Sinne solcher Autoren. Die Konservierung des Namens Chamaenerion im Sinne von S. F. Gray, Spach, Kosteletzky, Schur, u. s. w., bei denen die taxonomische Umgrenzung der heutigen Bentzung des Gattungsnamens Chamaenerion entspricht, wird hier auch nicht vorgeschlagen; der Grund liegt darin, dass es in einem solchen Falle ntig wre, die Kombination fr die bestbekannte Art der Gattung - Chamaenerion angustifolium - von einem Verffentlichungsort zu zitieren, der lter wre als das Verffentlichungsdatum des konservierten homonymischen Gattungsnamens (was nach dem zuknftigen Kod mglich sein wird). Im Falle der Konservierung von Chamaenerion S. F. Gray wre es noch ntig, das Artepitheton bei Chamaenerion dodonaei zu ndern. Der Autor bentzt deshalb einen bisher vollkommen unterlassenen Gattungsnamen Chamerion (Raf. 1818) Raf. 1833 und gibt fr die Gattung eine Beschreibung, Typus und Synonymik. Zur Zeit sind in dieser Gattung 9 Arten in zwei Sektionen bekannt. Weitere Taxa (Arten oder Unterarten) knnen vielleicht noch unter 8 weiteren Arten- und Unterartennamen verborgen sein, deren taxonomische oder nomenklatorische Problematik bisher noch nicht klar ist. Der Name Epilobium angustifolium L. muss noch emendiert werden, und zwar mittels einer Verengung per ursprnglichen Linnischen Auffassung; fr Chamerion dodonaei (Vill.) Holub wird eine Synonymenliste mit Analyse einzelner Synonymen gegeben. 
4179940| Germination of Lemna gibba L. seeds originating from two climatically different regions of Czechoslovakia: (1) South Bohemia, Jordn fishpond: (2) South Moravia, Nesyt fishpond, was examined under both laboratory and field conditions. The influence of water temperature on the rate of germination and the influence of different storage conditions on germination were assessed during 1972-1974. During the first year after ripening, all experimental treatments (i.e. germination at different water temperatures; storage in refrigerator and hibernation in the fishpond prior to germination) except the variant in which the seeds were kept in drought, resulted in roughly 100% germination. The rate of germination increased with increasing water temperature. The seeds lost their germination ability approximately after two years. 
4181414|Acorus calamus L. is a neophyte in Europe with remarkable properties. Among other things, it is the most anoxia tolerant species and a competitive invader at eutrophic sites. The following overview presents the most recent work on these subjects. Carbohydrates of the rhizomes sustain anaerobic ATP production for very long periods. Ethanolic fermentation naturally occurs in winter and produces rather low, but sufficient amounts of ATP for survival, as shown by adenylate energy charge and total adenylate content. Fermentation energy is mainly used for the synthesis and preservation of essential macromolecules, such as proteins and membrane lipids. The extent of these processes is unique. Moreover, ammonia and sulphide uptake is maintained during the cold season. Both ions are detoxified to alanine and thiols which are translocated into the rhizome, where the nitrogen of alanine is used to form arginine. Overwintering leaves contain asparagine instead of arginine. Recycled nitrogen compounds from the rapidly degrading summer leaves return into the rhizomes. Therefore, the nitrogen nutrition consists of an external and internal cycle. The abundance of carbohydrates and nitrogen compounds allows spring shoot growth earlier than other species. These strategies could contribute markedly to the competitive power of A. calamus at its natural site.
4179452|The plant Phragmites communis was subject to an analysis of physiological gradients along the leaf blade and level of insertion of separate leaves. The gradients were established in the following aspects: fresh weight, dry matter, specific leaf area, water content, water saturation deficit and its resaturation, rate of desiccation and photosynthetic capacity. Indistinct gradients under normal conditions become more marked in extreme circumstances. The significance of leaf heterogeneity for all sorts of eco-physiological analysis of the plant under study was discussed.
4179789| Vicia cassubica L. in Czechoslovakia belongs to the characteristic species of light decidous forests, especially oak forests, and of their edges, predominantly in the range of the Pannonian flora and in the adjacent regions. V. cassubica appears little variable both in Czechoslovakia and in its total distribution area. /// Vicia cassubica L. gehrt in der Tschechoslowakei zu charakteristischen Arten einiger wrmeliebender Gesellschaften. Sie ist vorwiegend im Gebiet der pannonischen und subpannonischen Flora und in den angrenzenden Teilen benachbarter Gebiete verbreitet. Sie stellt eine verhltnismssig wenig vernderliche Art dar. In Bhmen ist sie im Elbetiefland, Prager Talbecken und im Gebirge esk stedoho (Bhmisches Mittelgebirge am hufigsten verbreitet. Von diesen greift sie in die Nachbargebiete, besonders in das Kivoklt-Hgelland und auf die Slan-Platte ber, weiter ist sie in Nordwestbhmen (z. B. Podrudoho, Tal der mittleren Ohe), in Nordbhmen, Sdbhmen und auf der Hhe eskomoravsk vrchovina (Bhmisch-Mhrischen Hhe) zerstreut verbreitet. In Mhren ist V. cassubica viel seltener als in Bhmen und in der Slowakei. In Mhren ist sie zerstreut besonders im Stromgebiet des Flusses Morava (hufiger auf den Hgeln Chiby und Hostnsk vrchy und in der Umgebung der Stadt Hodonn) und in den westlichen Teilen in der Umgebung der Stadt Znojmo und weiter bis zu den Stdten Teb und Jihlava zerstreut verbreitet. Nordwrts kommt die Art an der ganzen Nordgrenze von Mhren zerstreut vor, wohin sie aus den benachbarten Gebieten des polnischen Schlesien bergreift. In der Slowakei ist die hufigste Verbreitung von V. cassubica im Gebiet der Ipel-Rimava-Furche und in den benachbarten sdlichen Teilen der Gebirge Slovensk Stedoho und Slovensk Rudoho (Slowakisches Mittel- und Erzgebirge). Weiter ist sie in den Mal Karpaty, (Kleine Karpaten), der nrdlichen Gebiete des Donautales und in den angrenzenden Gebieten (z. B. Tribe) zerstreut verbreitet. Im Osten ist die Art im Slowakischen Karst (Slovensk kras), in den nordstlichen Teilen der Tiefebenen Koick und Potisk nina, sehr hufig auch auf den Hgeln Zemplnsk vrchy verbreitet. V. cassubica kommt am hufigsten im Hgelland vor, in die submontane Stufe steigt sie seltener auf. In den ausgedehnten Tiefebenen, z. B. auf der Insel Velk itn ostrov (Grosse Schttinsel) und in der Zhorie fehlt sie. 
4180477| This paper presents the results of taxonomic investigation of 8 species of lichens with gyalectoid apothecia collected in North-India and Nepal. Four species are recognized as new: Dimerella isidiata (sp. nova), D. nepalensis (sp. nova), Gyalideopsis lithophila (sp. nova) and Ramonia nepalensis (sp. nova). Four species are reported for the first time from Nepal: Coenogonium moniliforme, Gyalectidium caucasicum, Gyalidea lecideopsis and G. scutellaris. /// Im Winter 1979/80 besuchte einer der Autoren (G. T.) N-Indien und Nepal mit dem Ziel, dort Flechtenmaterial fr seine taxonomische Studien der Flechtengattung Chiodecton zu sammeln. Dabei wurden auch andere Flechten aufgenommen, von denen 8 Arten mit gyalectoiden Apothecien taxonomisch untersucht worden sind. Die vorliegende Arbeit enthlt Ergebnisse dieser Untersuchung: Vier Arten werden als neu beschrieben: Dimerella isidiata (sp. nova) and D. nepalensis (sp. nova), beide aus Nepal, Gyalideopsis lithophila (sp. nova) aus Assam und Ramonia nepalensis (sp. nova) aus Nepal. Weitere vier Arten sind Neufunde fr Nepal: Coenogonium moniliforme Tuck., Gyalectidium caucasicum (Elenk. et Woronich.) Vzda, Gyalidea lecideopsis (Massal.) Lett. ex Vzda und G. scutellaris (Bagl et Car.) Lett. ex Vzda. Zu allen Arten sind taxonomische, kologische und phytogeographische Bemerkungen beigefgt. 
4179973| Data on the annual net primary production by macrophyte vegetation are given for 5 lakes in northern Russia and for altogether 8 river reservoirs, 5 on the Volga and 3 on the Dnieper rivers. The monozonal (littoral) lakes Laa, Voe and Kubenskoje are by one to two orders of magnitude more productive in macrophytes (per unit lake area) than the polyzonal large lakes Ladoga and Onega. In the 5 Volga river reservoirs, the annual macrophyte production decreases downstream, from some 92 to 3.5 g C per 1 m
4181369|Luzula campestris, L. pallidula and tetraploid plants of this section from Ireland were studied electrophoretically. A hypothesis of alloploid origin for the Irish tetraploids from a hybrid between L. campestris and L. pallidula, based on the morphology and karyology of the relevant taxa, has been tested. The presumed parental taxa are divergent in several loci, L. pallidula being highly homozygous and L. campestris moderately heterozygous. The Irish tetraploid combines the alleles of the putative parents, has no unique alleles, and exhibits a high frequency of heterozygotes, in Adh-2 and Gpi-1, with invariably additive patterns. The Irish tetraploid has a low genotype diversity. The allozyme data support the hypothesis of alloploid origin for the Irish tetraploid with L. campestris and L. pallidula as possible parents.
4180198|Avena fatua L., a weedy grass of arable land and an occasional component of ruderal communities, shows uneven distribution over Czechoslovak territory. Compiled in a "map of historical distribution" the literary and herbarium data suggest a similar pattern of dispersal as at the present time, which is presented in the "map of recent distribution". Altogether 3124 localities, recorded on arable land in Bohemia and Moravia mainly in the period 1967 to 1974, have been listed and statistically evaluated according to various environmental aspects. The present-day distribution of A. f. remains to be controlled by primary climatic, orographic and soil factors in spite of the profound effects of large-scale field management and weed control. According to its behaviour in Czechoslovakia, the species must be classed as a subthermophyte and subxerophyte dispersed mainly in the planar and colline belt and occupying mainly base-rich soils. The three zones established according to the density of localities with respect to the "classes of infestation" coincide well with the new phytogeographical division of western part of Czechoslovakia. Less complete data from the eastern part of the territory revealed similar trends in the species' distribution. From the viewpoint of syntaxonomy, A.f. has an optimum in the Secalietalia, while its occurrence in ruderal communities lies mostly in the Sisymbrion.
4181391| Chromosome numbers are reported for 20 collections of Mongolian plants representing 19 taxa. The first chromosome records are reported for Arabidopsis mongolica (2n = 16), Caragana pygmaea (2n = 16), Isatis costata var. leiocarpa (2n = 28), Lophanthus chinensis (2n = 18) and Stevenia cheiranthoides (2n = 32). Counts partly differing from those previously recorded are given for Batrachium trichophyllum subsp. trichophyllum (2n = 32 + 0-2B, 36 + 6B), Cuscuta chinensis (2n = 60), Dracocephalum fragile (2n = 72) and Erysimum flavum (2n = 14). Chromosome numbers of the following taxa were confirmed: Astragalus monophyllus (2n = 16), Erodium stephanianum (2n = 16), Gastrolychnis apetala (2n = 24), Geum aleppicum (2n= 42), Linum baicalense (2n = 18), Rorippa palustris (2n = 32), Rubia cordifolia subsp. pratensis (2n = 22), Schizonepeta multifida (2n = 12), Tribulus terrestris (2n = 36) and Vicia cracca (2n = 14). Taxonomic remarks on Arabidopsis mongolica, Erysimum flavum, Stevenia cheiranthoides and Vicia cracca are added. A new combination Arabidopsis mongolica (Botsch.) Msek & Sojk is proposed. 
4180392|The contribution presents phytosociological analyses of the savanna vegetation of Yaguaramas belonging to the class Curatello-Byrsonimetea Borhidi 1979. According to the plant composition, the plant communities under study belong to the order Byrsonimo crassifoliae-Andropogonetalia teneris Bal.-Tul. ordo nov., where two alliances were distinguished, namely the Guillemineo brittonii-Aristidion refractae Bal.-Tul. all. nov. and the Byrsonimo crassifoliae-Andropogonion teneris Bal.-Tul. all. nov. The associations Sclerio interruptae-Rhynchosporetum subimberbis Bal. Tul. ass. nov., and Polygalo omissae-Andropogonetum diodontis Bal.-Tul. ass. nov. (both endemic) were classified in the former alliance while the association Byrsonimo crassifoliae-Andropogonetum teneris Bal.-Tul. ass. nov. is a representative of the latter. The following subassociations were distinguished: the Sclerio interruptae-Rhynchosporetum subimberbis utricularietosum fimbriatae Bal.-Tul. subass. nov., the Byrsonimo crassifoliae-Andropogonetum teneris typicum Bal.-Tul. subass. nov., and the Byrsonimo-Andropogonetum sclerietosum interruptae Bal.-Tul. subass. nov.
4179762| Ramonia micrococca Vzda sp. n. und R. stipitata Vzda et H. Hertel sp. n. werden als neue Arten beschrieben. Das Typenmaterial von Ramonia leptospora (Mll. Arg.) Vzda comb. n. wird nher beschrieben. Die Identitt von Maronea porinoidea Zahlbr. 1935 mit Ramonia valenzueliana (Mont.) Stiz. wird nachgewiesen. ein neuer Fund von R. luteola Vzda wird angefhrt und eine eingehende Beschreibung von R. chrysophaea (Pers.) Vzda vorgelegt. /// Two new species of Ramonia Stiz. are described: R. micrococca Vzda sp. n. from Kenya and R. stipitata Vzda et H. Hertel sp. n. from Venezuela. A new combination is proposed: Ramonia leptospora (Mll. Arg.) Vzda comb. n. (= Secoliga leptospora Mll. Arg.). Maronea porinoidea Zahlbr. is shown to be a synonym of Ramonia valenzueliana (Mont.) Stiz. Ramonia luteola Vzda, known hitherto from two localities in the Carpathians, has recently been found in Bosnia Hercegovina (Magli Mountains, Peruica Virgin Forest). For the insufficiently known species Ramonia chrysophaea (Pers.) Vzda a full description is given. 
4181545| Using the Braun-Blanquet approach, a syntaxonomical revision of the order of Quercetalia pubescenti-petraeae, based on the synthesis of 634 relevs, distinguished three alliances of the thermophilous oak forests in the Czech Republic: (1) Quercion pubescenti-petraeae (3 communities: Pruno mahaleb--Quercetum pubescentis, Lathyro versicoloris-Quercetum pubescentis, Corno-Quercetum), which includes peri-alpine and peri-Carpathian oak forests on calcareous bedrock, (2) Aceri tatarici-Quercion (2 communities: Quercetum pubescenti-roboris, Carici fritschii-Quercetum roboris), which comprises Pontic-Pannonian oak forests on loess or sand that occur in southern Moravia only, (3) Quercion petraeae (5 communities: Potentillo albae-Quercetum, Brachypodium pinnatum-Quercus robur community, Sorbo torminalis-Quercetum, Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae, Asplenio cuneifolii-Quercetum petraeae), which includes Central European thermophilous oak forests distributed outside the range of Quercus pubescens and some other submediterranean species. 
4179942| Der Name Onosma helveticum (A. DC.) Boiss. kann, da das Typusexemplar zu O. vaudense Gremli gehrt, weder (im engeren Sinne) fr die im Wallis endemische Sippe angewendet werden, fr die er bisher allgemein gebraucht wurde, noch kann er (im weiteren Sinne) fr den von Teppner (1971) als O. helveticum Boiss. emend. Teppner bezeichneten Verwandtschaftskreis gebraucht werden, da O. vaudense diesem Verwandtschaftskreis nicht angehrt. Fr letzteren muss der Name O. pseudoarenarium Schur 1859 emend. Rauschert eintreten. Die korrekten Namen der hierher gehrigen Unterarten werden zusammen mit ihrer Synonymie aufgezhlt. Die Verbreitung der Unterarten wird auf einer Karte dargestellt. /// The taxonomic group to which the taxon endemic in Valesia and hitherto named O. helveticum (A. DC.) Boiss. belongs, cannot be called O. helveticum Boiss. emend. Teppner as in recent publications of Teppner (1971), Ehrendorfer (1973) etc., because (1) the name O. echioides  Helvetica A. DC. must be considered the basionym of Boissier's combination, (2) the lectotype of the basionym is identical with O. vaudense Gremli, and (3) O. vaudense does not belong to this group. The oldest binomial available for the "helveticum-group is O. pseudoarenarium Schur 1859, and this name must be used sensu latiore for the whole group, when their taxa are classified as subspecies of single species. The correct names of the 9 subspecies (5 new combinations) are listed, and their synonymy is given. The subspecies endemic in Valesia further bears the epithet helveticum, which however must be considered a new epithet (not a new combination from DeCandolle's name which is not a basionym). The distribution of the 9 subspecies is mapped. 
4181064|A new species, P. grandiloba, and a new variety, P. pamirica var. khunjrabensis, from Pakistan are described. New status has been given to P. grisea var. vilijuga. P. aphanes is recorded for the first time from Pakistan.
4181346|A soil seed bank study was conducted in an old and isolated chalk grassland site (area ca. 0.05 ha) with a high species richness in The Netherlands, over a two-year period. Each soil seed bank sample was divided into two halves: one part was sown immediately in trays with a layer of sterilized sand and put in a greenhouse, whilst the other half received a chilling period before being sown. Plant recruitment in the field was studied during the same period in permanently marked plots. Seeds of species which had become extinct during the period 1944-1970 were not found in the soil seed bank in the late eighties. One group of species still present in the actual vegetation neither showed any signs of recruitment from seed nor had a soil seed bank. Species in this group that do not recruit vegetatively can be considered as directly threatened by extinction. A group in the actual vegetation did not show any recruitment, but nevertheless had germinable seed present in the soil. Among this group, there are some annuals; however, the majority of the species are characterized by the potential to recruit vegetatively. The majority of the species present in the actual vegetation (45%) demonstrate seedling recruitment and are also present as seeds in the soil, although there is some quantitative discrepancy between these categories. The seed bank did not reflect former stages of the actual vegetation. Based on the results, predictions can be made on the future development of the vegetation and on the fate of a number of species. Adjustment of the management regime is aimed at maintenance of the species richness of the site. This is important for nature preservation purposes since a high number (ca. 27%) of the species in the chalk grassland of this small site are on the Dutch Red List.
4180151|Autecological, quantitative studies have been made of Acorus calamus L., growing in littoral communities of Central Europe and/or cultivated in experimental hydroponic sand cultures. Production measurements using the methods of growth analysis and the leaf disks method of dry weight increase were performed in addition to measurements of biomass energy conversion both of natural communities and experimental plants.-Thermoinduction of growth and ontogenetic development of shoots and underground organs and the R/S ratio were studied experimentally in conditioned greenhouses.-The mineral nutrient uptake was studied in natural populations in fishpond littorals as well as in experimental cultures with forced mineral nutrition.-The provenience and chorology, considering the caryotypes of A. c. populations in Europe, Asia and North America are discussed in relation to the thermoinduced ontogenetic development of vegetative organs, to flower sterility and to the polycormone performance of European populations growing in temperate to cold climatic conditions.
4180216|Cyperus rotundus L. is a hygrophilous plant, but it flourishes well even in the Indian desert. Higher bound water, hygroscopic capacity, % dry matter, lower desiccation rate and volume to mass ratio, development of thick sclerenchymatous layer, presence of cortical vascular bundles and endodermis-like layer appear to be the factors responsible for such adaptation.
4180950| Three shrub associations and 11 forest associations with 8 subassociations were found in the Bukovsk vrchy hills. Three associations are described as new. 
4180117|In der vorliegenden Arbeit ist die Gattung Urtica L. in drei Untergattungen zergliedert - subgenus Urtica, subgenus Sarcourtica Chrtek, subgenus Dendrourtica Chrtek, die sowohl durch biologische als auch morphologische Merkmale charakterisiert sind.
4180951|The paper presents the results of an experiment with the cultivation of Butomus umbellatus at a stable water level of 0.8 m for 6 years. The plant growth, flowering and vegetative reproduction were measured and recorded at the end of each growing season. The species showed a great ability to reproduce vegetatively by rhizome fragments. Cultured plants of Butomus umbellatus did not show any decrease or limitation of growth or flowering caused by stable water level. The expansion of the rhizome system seems to be dependent on its spontaneous fragmentation.
4180617|Comparison of growth rates of Salix cinerea and S. pentandra seedlings in terrestric, limosal, and littoral ecophases showed different life strategies of juvenile stages of these willows. Several characters determining ecological niches of both species are summarized.
4181111|This paper deals with the carnivorous plants of the genus Pinguicula occurring particularly in wet habitats. Nevertheless, some species are able to survive longer dry periods in the course of which they form succulent rosettes. Leaf anatomy has been investigated in 6 Mexican species of this kind. The following features frequent in typical succulents have been found: green sheats of vascular bundles (indicating the C
4181304|Patterns of grasslands species mobility were compared between communities and within plant species. Data from high spatial resolution permanent plots with fine scale recording system, experiment with removal of the dominant recorded also at a fine scale were used. The permanent plots showed large variation within a community in the patterns of species mobility. The species mobility was partly dependent on the site and was higher in a more nutrient rich and climatically more favourable community. Mobility also varied within species. In some species (Nardus stricta, Anthoxanthum spp.) it differed between communities (it was higher in more nutrient rich and climatically more favourable community) and did not respond to removal of the dominant species. In another species, Festuca rubra, mobility also differed between plots; in contrast, it did not show consistent variation attributable to community type and showed strongly increased spatial persistence in plots with the dominant species removed. In this species the mobility seems to be dependent on the competitive pressure of the coexisting species.
4180734|The correlation pattern between vascular plants and bryophytes was studied, comparing variance proportions accounted for by the main PCA axes of sets containing only vascular plants and sets containing random selection of both bryophytes and vascular plants with the same number of species. In material rich in bryophytes, inclusion of bryophytes almost invariably lowered the overall correlation expressed by the variance proportion of the main PCA axes. This indicates that distribution of bryophytes is largely determined by other factors than that of vascular plants. It is suggested that this may be due to the opportunistic strategy of grassland bryophytes which respond to factors of much shorter duration and greater fluctuations than vascular plants.
4181020|Three new species of the genus Trisetum from the province Yunnan are described: Trisetum lautum, T. debile and T. yunnanense which belong to Trisetum flavescens-group.
4181091|Voandzeia subterranea (L.) Thouars (Bambara groundnut) is a drought and poor soil cultivated legume. The seeds vary both in colour and in size. The seed colour ranges from white, cream, ivory to dark brown red or black. The seed weight varies from about 0.15 g to 1.20 g. The effect of seed size on the development and yield of the cream coloured cultivar of V. subteranea was investigated. The three size class of seeds used in the study are small (seeds weighing less than 0.40 g) medium (seeds weighing from 0.40-0.60 g) and large (seeds weighing above 0.60g). The results of the investigation show that the number of leaves, pods and seeds, the leaf area, dry weight of plants and the seeds produced increased significantly with increase in the seed size.
4180660| The taxa very rare in Greece, Gentianella bulgarica (Velen.) J. Holub and Primula elatior (L.) Hill subsp. intricata (Gren. et Godron) Ldi Balkan-South Carpathian and mountain subendemic taxon of South and South-Central Europe also the oreophytes Gentiana asclepidaea L. and Androsace villosa L. rare in Greece at high altitudes endemic species of Central Europe and arcto-alpic element both extending South as far as Central Italy and Central Greece as well as the relatively rare species in Greece, Crocus biflorus Mill. which exists in South Europe from Sicily and eastwards and finally four other Iridaceae, i.e.: the South Balkan Asia-Minor subendemic species Crocus olivieri Gay and C. pulchellus Herbert, the South Balkan endemic species C. veluchensis Herbert and the Mediterranean and mostly East-para-mediterranean subendemic species Hermodactylus tuberosus (L.) Miller are reported and investigated. However new habitats and records in the Greek area of the investigated species are given, their distribution is discussed, while the existence of the taxa most rare in Greece Primula elatior (L.) Hill subsp. intricata (Gren. et Godron) Ldi in Hegi, Gentianella bulgarica (Velen.) J. Holub, Gentiana asclepiadea L., Androsace villosa L. and Crocus biflorus Mill. are presented in the form of a dot map and thus the southernmost limits of their spreading in the Balkan peninsula or in S.E. Europe are elucidated. /// Ein Beitrag zur Kenntnis einiger Sippen der griechischen Flora unter besonderer Bercksichtigung der Chorologie und des Endemismus. So werden die sehr seltenen in Griechenland Taxa: Gentianella bulgarica (Velen.) J. Holub und Primula elatior (L.) Hill subsp. intricata (Gren. et Godron) Ldi in Hegi, ebenso die seltenen Arten: Gentiana asclepiadea L., Androsace villosa L. und Crocus biflorus Mill., als auch die neu nachgewiesenen griechischen Standorte der Arten: Crocus olivieri Gay, C. pulchellus Herbert, C. veluchensis Herbert und Hermodactylus tuberosus (L.) Miller erwhnt und untersucht. Die Verbreitung der Arten wird diskutiert, die Vorkommen in Griechenland der fnf ersten obigen Sippen sind in der Form von einer Punktkarte dargestellt; damit sind die sdlichsten Arealgrenzen auf der Balkanhalbinsel bzw. auf Sdost-Europa genauer erfasst, als dies bisher der Fall war. 
4179893|The correct usage of the generic name Oidium [Link] Fr. 1821 (Hyphomycetes) as well as the question of its conservation - with the authorship attributed to Saccardo 1880 (Erysiphaceae) - are discussed. Problems of the typification of generic names with misinterpreted type are also mentioned.
4181308|The question, "why do areas vary in species richness?" has been important throughout the history of ecology. It is difficult to answer definitively because we have so many (at least 120) plausible hypotheses. This abundance of hypotheses has led to a number of attempts to classify them. Unfortunately, richness hypotheses often defy such categorization. Instead of placing species richness hypotheses into categories, I suggest an alternative approach: to treat species richness hypotheses as violations of the assumptions of Gause's Competitive Exclusion Principle. This is a very similar approach to the pedagogy of population genetics: evolution occurs if and only if at least one assumption of the Hardy-Weinberg principle is violated. The classification of hypotheses advocated here treats interspecific competition as a central organizing concept in community theory. However, it does not treat competition as an organizing concept in communities: indeed, the relaxation or disruption of competition is considered to be the status quo in the majority of communities.
4180480| Three hybrids are described whose common parent was Pyrus spinosa Forsk.: 1. Pyrus  bardonsis Dostlek (P. elaeagrifolia Pall.  P. spinosa Forsk.). - 2. Pyrus  velenovskyi Dostlek (P. pyraster Burgsd.  P. spinosa Forsk.). - 3. Pyrus  jordanovii Dostlek (P. communis L.  P. spinosa Forsk.). Notes are given about five other hybrids whose existence has not been conclusively confirmed or which are less important. 
4179632| The paper presents the results of pollen and macroscopic analyses of three peat deposits in the surroundings of Letina (near Svtl nad Szavou) on the western slopes of Bohemian-Moravian Uplands. On the basis of the results obtained, a reconstruction of forest covers was made and the representation of various woody plants in the forests from the Sub-boreal period to the present was evaluated. Beech-fir forests were found to have prevailed in the area before the beginning of colonization, and Picea excelsa is shown to have originally occurred at 450-500 m altitude. The results of macroscopic analyses were used for the reconstruction of the vegetation of peat deposits. The findings of historical investigations of the forests were taken into consideration and the conclusions of geobotanical reconstruction mapping were compared with the results obtained. /// Es wurde eine Pollen- und Grossrestanalyse von Proben aus drei Torflagern im westlichen Vorgebirge der Bhmisch-Mhrischen Hhe vorgenommen. Die Ergebnisse der Grossrestanalyse dienten als Unterlage fr die Rekonstruktion der Vegetationsentwicklung der eigentlichen Torflager. Das Lager PV-1 entstand Ende Subboreal, das Lager PV-2 im lteren Subatlantikum, das Lager PV-4 whrend des jngeren Subatlantikums. Alle drei Lager entstanden an Stelle ursprnglicher Erlenwlder, welche sich nach knstlicher Beseitigung der Baumbestnde in Wiesengesellschaften umwandelten (Ordnung Molinietalia Koch 1926). Die Resultate der Pollenanalysen wurden fr die Rekonstruktion der Pflanzendecke in der Umgebung der untersuchten Lokalitten gebraucht. Die grsste Aufmerksamkeit wurde auf die Entwicklung der Waldvegetation gerichtet. Gewisse nderungen in der Holzzusammensetzung des Waldes konnten hier ab Ende Subboreal verfolgt werden. Es wurde festgestellt, dass sich berwiegend die Laubbestnde der Gehlze Quercetum mixtum vom Ende Subboreal infolge des Klimawechsels zu Beginn des lteren Subatlantikums in Bestnde mit dominierender Buche umwandelten. In der Hlfte des lteren Subatlantikums trat in diese Bestnde die Tanne ein. An der Scheide des lteren und jngeren Subatlantikums nahmen einen berwiegenden Teil des Gebietes schon Buchen-Tannenbestnde ein. Die knstliche Beseitigung von Fagus im 16. bis 18. Jhdt. (Holzgewinnung fr Berg-, Glas- und Httenwerke, Abweiden in Wldern) fhrte zur Entstehung von Tannenbestnden, die in der Hlfte des 19. Jahrhunderts zum Grossteil ausgerodet wurden und an ihre Stelle wurde haufenweise die Fichte gepflanzt, die bis heutzutage in den Wldern des Untersuchungsgebietes dominiert. Bei Beurteilung der jngsten Entwicklungsphase der Waldbestnde bercksichtigte man die Resultate der forsthistorischen Forschung. Ebenfalls die Bedeutung der wichtigsten Gehlze in den Bestnden vom Ende des Subboreals bis in die Gegenwart wurde bewertet. Die Pollen- und Grossrestanalyse bewies das ursprngliche, edaphisch bedingte Vorkommen von Picea in dieser tief gelegenen Region (450-500 m . M.). In Sedimenten, in denen der Pollengehalt von Corylus nur 2-3% der Summe AP + NAP = = 100% betrgt, wurden Corylus-Makroreste festgestellt. In vorliegender Arbeit wurden die Ergebnisse der Pollen- und Grossrestanalyse und die Resultate der geobotanischen Rekonstruktionskartierung verglichen. Die angestellten Analysen besttigen die Richtigkeit der Rekonstruktion des Verbandes Fagion Luquet 1926 emend. Pawlowski 1928 und des Verbandes Luzulo-Fagion Lohmeyer et Txen in Txen 1954. Die Pollenanalyse besttigte jedoch nicht ein so grosses Ausmass der rekonstruierten Verbnde Quercion robori-petraea Braun-Blanquet 1932 und Carpinion betuli (Meyer 1937) Oberdofer 1953. 
4181108|The spread of Heracleum mantegazzianum in the Czech Republic has been reconstructed on the basis of floristic data. The species has spread from several spatially independent localities which have originated from the West Bohemian population introduced in the 19th century. Its expansion first followed the courses of great rivers. An exponential increase in the number of localities reported in particular years and in the cummulative number of localities was found. The species abundance decreases from the region of original introduction, which is located in the westernmost part of the country, to the east. The rate of spread in the last sixty years was the same in the Czech Republic and in Great Britain. The species is, however, more widespread in the North of Europe presumably because of the more favourable climate. It is found most frequently in habitats that encourage the greatest movement of diaspores. Floristic data can be used to infer retrospectively the dynamics of invasion of a species in a given area provided that there is a sufficient amount of floristic research over time.
4180403|Elytrigia turcica sp. nov., (Poaceae) (2n = 8x = 56), a member of the polyploid complex related to E. elongata (Host) Nevski, (2n = 2x = 14), is described and distinguished from E. pontica (Podp.) Holub, (2n = 10x = 70), which it most resembles.
4179960| Die vorliegende Studie, die letzte aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) ist den Arten der Gattung Nardia S. Gray corr. Carring. gewidmet. Die Gattung Nardia wird in zwei Untergattungen gegliedert, u. zw. Subg. Geoscypharia Trev. mit den Sektionen Sect. Breidlerion Grolle (2 Arten), Sect. Flagelliformes Inoue (2 Arten), Sect. Geoscypharia (6 Arten), Sect. Nudae sect. nova (1 Art) und Sect. Subclavatae Inoue (3 Arten) und Subg. Nardia (1 Art). Von 16 bekannten Arten der Gattung (eine Art, die nur im sterilen Zustand bekannt ist, hat eine unsichere Stellung) sind in dieser Studie 8 Arten (N. breidleri (Limpr.) Lindb., N. geoscyphus (De Not.) Lindb., N. insecta Lindb., N. scalaris S. Gray corr. Trev., N. nuda (Lindenb. et Gott.) Va, N. assamica (Mitt.) Amak., N. succulenta (Rich. ex Lehm.) Spruce und N. compressa (Hook.) S. Gray corr. Trev.) eingehend taxonomisch bearbeitet. Die verbliebenen 8 Arten wurden schon von anderen Autoren (Amakawa, Grolle, Inoue, Schuster) oder vom Verfasser in frheren Studien bearbeitet. /// This tenh study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys to species of the genus Nardia S. Gray corr. Carring. based on sterile and fertile plants. 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, data on the type and exsiccata of eight Nardia species. There are also notes on ecology, geographical distribution, taxonomy, variability and relationships of these taxa. The remaining eight species have been treated in articles by the present or other authors. 3. Discussion of all infraspecific taxa on the basis of the concept of habitat modifications. Taxonomically, N. (Geoscypharia) breidleri (Limpr.) Lindb., N. (G.) poeltii Va, N. (G.) arnelliana Grolle, N. (G.) flagelliformis Inoue, N. (G.) geoscyphus (De Not.) Lindb., N. (G.) insecta Lindb., N. (G.) japonica Steph., N. (G.) lescurii (Aust.) Und., N. (G.) scalaris S. Gray corr. Trev., N. (G.) assamica (Mitt.) Amak., N. (G.) subclavata (Steph.) Amak., N. (G.) succulenta (Rich. ex Lehm.) Spruce, N. (Nardia) compressa (Hook.) S. Gray corr. Trev. und N. (?) huerlimannii Va et Grolle are treated as good species. Many other taxa are considered to be habitat modifications. 
4180262|In deciduous and coniferous mountain forests the ecological analysis and biomass production have been studied with a view to the indication parameters of plants for estimating the ecological spectrum and the production capacity of the herbaceous layer. The linkage of natural conditions and the investigated ecological factors was confirmed in comparison with forest communities of the colline belt. The main quantitative and production parameters and theoretical aspects from the ecological analysis of biotopes have been verified by means of the Ellenberg method. The establishment of the productivity index makes the estimation of total production possible in conjunction with phytocenological research.
4179591| Die Arbeit befasst sich mit der Nomenklatur, Morphologie, Phytogeographie, Chorologie, Phytoznologie und kologie der Art Leucanthemum rotundifolium (W. K.) DC. innerhalb ihres Gesamtareals. Auf Grund der Analyse aller untersuchten Faktoren werden die Endergebnisse vom taxonomischen Gesichtspunkte vorgelegt. L. rotundifolium wird mit der am nchsten verwandten Art L. vulgare Lam. s. l. verglichen. /// Leucanthemum rotundifolium is a morphologically defined, stable species. The infraspecific taxa described in the literature do not pass beyond the limits of fluctuation variability. A statistical evaluation of variability was carried out for the following characters: lenght of the guard cells of stomata, diameter of pollen grains, length and width of the achene, high of the calyx fringe. The results of measurement are compared graphically with the theoretical distribution of frequency. The empirical values follow the theoretical values without deviation in the case of pollen grain diameter and achene width, but the achene length height of the calyx fringe and length of the stomatal guard cells show an irregular pattern. The results of achene measurements are very similar to those of Kynlov (1967). The characteristic features of L. rotundifolium morphology are compared with the closest related L. vulgare Lam. in a tabulated review. Cytological examination was carried out with plants of 10 populations from different sites of the area. In all cases the diploid chromosome number 2n = 18 was confirmed. The distribution of the species was investigated from herbarium material and according to the literature and was mapped by the point method (Figs. 7 and 8). In Czechoslovakia, L. r. was found to occur in the following mountain ranges: Vysok Beskydy, Mal Fatra, Nzk, Liptovsk, Vysok and Belansk Tatry and Nzk Poloniny. Occurrence in the Velk Fatra is postulated by the author. In Poland, the localities are restricted to the Tatry, Gorce and Bieszczady Zachodne mountain areas. Eastward, the localities reach throughout the Eastern Carpathians, starting with the High Polonines and proceeding to the Marmaros, Rodna and Ciucas Mts. from where it reaches westward to the Banat Mts. A small distribution area lies in the Bihor Mts. and an isolated locality as the last remnant of a formerly continuous area is found in the Vranica Planina Mts. in Bosnia. According to the area type L. r. belongs to the Carpathian subendemites. Phytocoenologically L. r. is associated mostly with the alliance Chrysanthemo-Piceion Krajina 1933 where it represents the indication species. At lower levels, it occurs prevalently in the suballiance Eu-Fagion Oberdorfer 1957 em. Tx. 1960. Beyond the forest line it is frequent in the alliance Pinion mughi Pawowski 1928 and in communities of the class Betulo-Adenostyletea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943 in which it is the indication species of the alliance Trisetion fusci Krajina 1933. It reaches highest in alliance Festucion pictae Krajina 1933, Salicion herbaceae Br.-Bl. in Br.-Bl. et Jenny 1926 and Androsacion alpinae Br.-Bl. in BR.-Bl. et Jenny 1926. The occurrence optimum lies in the montane and subalpine zone. The lowest known locality is in the Gorce Mts. (525 m), highest in the diarska Vidla in the Belansk Tatry (2060 m). Occurrence at these altitudes is made possible by the microclimate. L. r. is in all localities pronouncedly hygrophilic, in mountain pine stands weakly sciophilous, in the alpine zone chionophilous. The geological substratum is not decisive for the presence of the species, but on limestones associations with L. r. attain richer development. L. r. belongs to the cool climatic region with average air temperature during the vegetation season below 12C and with average annual precipitation over 700 mm. The morphological, cytological, phytocoenological and ecological distinctness of L. r. lead the author to the conclusion that the species is of very substantial age. It may have originated during the Quarternary glaciation but it may be even older. 
4181136|Weddellomyces aspiciliicola Alstrup, a lichenicolous ascomycete on Aspicilia radiosa, is described from Czecho-Slovakia.
4179443|Colmeiroa F. v. Muell. ist a later homonym and therefore a new name is proposed - Paracorokia. Its systematic position is discussed: it seems to belong to Cornaceae rather than to Escalloniaceae. Subgenus Discocrania Harms of the genus Cornus is published in a generic rank.
4181033| The ecology of seed germination was examined in air-conditioned boxes in the laboratory, and the sprouting of seeds was investigated in an experimental plot at Prhonice. The seeds show a marked dormancy caused by the impermeability of testa to water (seed hardcoatness). 72-100% of hard seeds were found in 16 seed samples. Seed hardcoatness is an important protective strategy of the species against the frost killing of seedlings and, on the other hand, for the longevity of seeds (Table 3) and for the possibility of endochoric spreading. It is also important to establish seed supply in the soil. The seed sprout from the first decade of April till the beginning of May. The soft seed sprout as early as in autumn, and the seedlings freeze out (Table 4). 
4180844| In order to improve the interpretation of the results of pollen analyses concerning mediaeval anthropogenous sediments a set of recent seeds of the principal cereals was pollenanalytically elaborated. The aim was to find out whether pollen grains can be preserved on mature seeds. The pollen spectra obtained from the material of mediaeval anthropogenous sediments include, in most cases, a large amount of pollen of certain plants including cereals. It is suggested that part of the pollen spectra from anthropogenous sediments need not come from air transport, i.e. from the surrounding vegetation; it could get into waste pits in another way. Above all, some foodstuffs were considered to be the sources of pollen grains. The origin of some grains coming from honey and from plant infusions has, at least partly, been demonstrated (Jankovsk 1987). As the next step, attention was paid to other products, mainly those of cereals. An experimental pollen analysis of recent seeds of selected cereals showed that pollen grains are preserved on their surface, often in high concentrations. This is due, above all, to the cleistogamy of most cereals. The highest values of pollen grains have so far been found in Avena sativa and Panicum milliaceum. Triticum aestivum and Hordeum vulgare showed lower values of pollen grains. The lowest amounts were found in heterogamous Secale cereale. Simultaneously, the pollen of plants growing in a neighbourhood, above all the pollen of field weeds, was found sticking to the seeds. /// Aus den ermittelten Pollenspektren einzelner Getreidesamenproben ist klar ersichtlich, dass die Voraussetzung vom Anhaften der Pollenkrner an den reifen Getreidefrchten richtig war. Es hat sich besttigt, dass bei den kleistogamen (selbstbestubenden) Arten an den Getreidefrchten weit mehr Pollen haften bleibt als bei den fremdbestubenden. Die hchste Pollenzahl wurde an den Frchten der Art Avena sativa festgestellt, deren heute angebauten Sorte selbstbestubend sind. Hohe Pollenwerte erwies auch die Probe von Panicum milliaceum-Frchten. Die Triticum aestivum-Frchte wurden in drei Proben aus verschiedenen Gebieten der Tschechoslowakei untersucht. Die Pollenfrequenz war bei allen Proben ziemlich bereinstimmend, sie war jedoch niedriger als bei Avena und Panicum. Genau so kann man auch die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen von Getreidefrchten dreier Hordeum vulgare-Proben bewerten. Abweichende Resultate lieferten Pollenanalysen des Materials von Secale cereale. An fnf Prparaten wurden nur sehr wenig Pollenkrner festgestellt. Die Ergebnisse entsprechen jedoch der ursprnglichen Vermutung, denn es handelt sich um fremdbestubende Art und der Pollen wird aus dem Staubbeutel schon beim Blhen entleert. An den reifen Getreidefrchten bleibt der Pollen nur gelegentlich haften. Die Zeit, die der Pollen an reifen Frchten smtlicher Getreidearten berdauern kann, drfte wahrscheinlich unbeschrnkt sein. Es wurde Material mit verschiedenem Erntedatum bearbeitet und es scheint nicht, dass sich die Zahl der Pollenkrner an den Getreidefrchten mit den anwachsenden Jahren verringern wrde. Bei durchgefhrter experimenteller Pollenanalyse wurde ebenfalls festgestellt, dass an den Getreidefrchten nicht nur der Pollen der Mutterpflanze haften bleibt, sondern auch der Pollen anderer Pflanzen. Es handelt sich meistens um in Getreidekulturen wachsende Unkrautarten, deren Pollen aus der Umgebung angeflogen kam. Fr die Interpretation der Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen aus den anthropogenen Sedimenten kann aus den vorgenommenen Experimenten gefolgert werden, dass in diesen Fllen unumgnglich eine andere Bewertungsweise der erzielten Resultate angewendet werden muss. An erster Stelle muss man mit den anthropischen Momenten rechnen. Eine solche Interpretation, die bei natrlichen Ablagerungen blich vorgenommen wird, wrde zu durchaus verfehlten Schlssen fhren. 
4180855|In this paper I examine some differences between the ideals of systematic traditional phytosociology and pragmatic numerical ones, and identify a difference in their view of the role of a stand. Traditionally very few stands are regarded as typifying the Association, most stands being regarded as being composed of elements of several types. The approaches using numerical methods, by contrast, have generally regarded all stands as equally contributing to the definition of patterns. This difference is reflected in the methodologies regarded as appropriate for the two cases. Attention is then given to eight classes of methods which relax the numerical insistence on crisp clusters in various ways, to permit the simultaneous presence of several types in a single stand. A stand may be assigned to one or to several clusters, and such assignment may be complete or partial. The methods are exemplified and their various possibilities and problems discussed.
4180898|The present paper discusses the nomenclature problem of the name Chaerophyllo-Valerianetum pyrenaiceae: the later homonym appeared as the result of correction of another published name. Possible solutions are put forward.
4179992| Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit der geobotanischen und palogeobotanischen Bearbeitung einiger Moore im oberen Gurgltal, tztaler Alpen - sterreich. Der phytoznologische Teil bringt die Beschreibung und synkologische Charakteristik der Moorgesellschaften und deutet ihre syndynamischen Beziehungen an. Der palogeobotanische Teil stellt die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalyse des Zirbenwaldmoores und ihre Interpretation vor. Ferner wird eine Rekonstruktion der Entwicklung und Sukzession der torfbildenden Gesellschaften im Zirbenwaldmoor und Rotmoos versucht. Diese Untersuchung sttzt sich auf die Pflanzengrossrestanalyse. Ebenfalls bringt diese Arbeit eine bersicht der untersuchten Lokalitten und ihre Vegetationscharakteristik. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit wurde bei den Untersuchungen dem Rotmoos gewidmet, von dem ausser der Situationskarte auch noch eine detaillierte Vegetations- und Torfmchtigkeitskarte verffentlicht wird. /// The present study sums up the results of phytocoenological and palaeoecological investigation of mires situated in the upper part of the Gurgltal in the tztaler Alps (Austria). The phytocoenological investigations are based on Central-European phytocoenological principles. In addition to the description of plant communities, the study also supplies some synecological data. Most of the stands found in the area are classified among fen communities of the Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae Nordh. in Tx. 1937. The synthesis performed confirmed the usefulness of the Drepanocladion exannulati Krajina 1933. The Drepanoclado exannulati-Eriophoretum scheuchzeri Rynek ass. nova and Drepanoclado exannulati-Caricetum fuscae Krajina 1933 with two new subassociations were classified to this alliance. The Carici echinatae-Trichophoretum caespitosi (Koch 1928) Rybnek nomen novum (also with two new subassociations) is attributed to the Caricion demissae Rybnek 1964. Of the Caricion davallianae Klika 1934 the Carex capillaris-Drepanocladus revolvens community was recorded in fragments. Raised-bog communities (Oxycocco-Sphagnetea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943) are almost absent in the area, or are represented by fragments only. Of the other non-peat communities, descriptions are given of secondary Nardus-stands and of the Saxifraga stellaris-Anisothecium squarrosum community in spring areas. Special attention was devoted to the study of probable syndynamic relations between the plant communities under study. The Eriophoretum scheuchzeri and Carex capillaris-Drepanocladus revolvens communities, denoted as initial vegetational stands, passed through a series of several subassociations of the Drepanoclado exannulati-Caricetum fuscae to the Carici echinatae-Trichophoretum caespitosi, which is regarded as the final stage of the natural succession under the given conditions in the area. Nardus stricta stands make their appearance as the result of the degradation of various mire communities. The ascertained syndynamic relations approximately correspond to the succession of peat-forming communities as determined by macroscopic analyses of sediments from Rotmoos and Zirbenwaldmoor. The palaeoecological investigations are devoted to the stratigraphy of profiles and to a reconstruction of the development of peat-forming communities in Rotmoos and Zirbenwaldmoor as well as to the evaluation of pollen analyses from Zirbenwaldmoor. The peat-forming process in Rotmoos began at the end of the Younger Atlantic Period and was interrupted by frequent transportation of mineral sediments. The initial stages were formed by a community similar to the present Carex capillaris-Drepanocladus revolvens community, which developed gradually into stands close to the present Drepanoclado exannulati-Caricetum fuscae and, finally, Carici echinatae-Trichophoretum caespitosi. On the other hand, the vegetational evolution of Zirbenwaldmoor began with the infilling of a shallow lake in the Boreal Period and was not interrupted by mineral sedimentation. The speed of peat accumulation was, however, very irregular, depending perhaps on the local hydrological situation; an almost complete cessation in the growth of the deposit and the drying-off of the surface was found to have taken place between the end of the Younger Atlantic and the beginning of the Older Sub-atlantic Periods. The first established plant community of the peat-forming process in Zirbenwaldmoor was formed by Potamogeton alpinus, Hippuris vulgaris, Sparganium minimum, Heleocharis palustris and Carex fusca. The following mosses were also found: Drepanocladus exannulatus, Sphagnum teres, Calliergon giganteum, etc. In the subsequent stages, sedges were the dominant species (Carex canescens, C. rostrata) together with Sphagnum sect. acutifolia, which was replaced by Sphagnum magellanicum at the end of the Younger Atlantic Period. During the following drying-off of the surface, birch vegetation covered the mire and remained there for a long period of time. The revival of peat-forming activity gave rise to a plant community close to the present Carici echinatae-Trichophoretum caespitosi eriophoretosum vaginati. Pollen analyses of the Zirbenwaldmoor profile offer evidence concerning both the representation of trees and approximate composition of vegetation at the forest line, and the climatic changes which have taken place since the Boreal Period (with the exception of the Sub-boreal Period, whose sediment is almost absent in the profile). Only Pinus (cembra), Larix europaea and, in the course of the Atlantic Period, Picea excelsa can be considered as forest-forming tree in the area. Their occurrence in the close vicinity of the mire is also documented by finds o needles and seeds. However, the pollen analyses do not prove that the forest line descended conspicuously below the niveau of the locality during the development of the deposit, even though the pollen diagram records several fluctuations in the ratio AP: NAP testifying to changes in the extent of the representation of forest and non-forest vegetation in the neighbourhood. The changes are explained by climatic fluctuations, whose occurrence in the Alps is supported by glaciological research. The authors endeavour to correlate the fluctuation in vegetation with those (so far ascertained and described) of the climate and the glaciers. The work ends with a survey of the mire localities studied in the upper part of the Gurgltal. The locality of Rotmoos is described in detail and several maps (situation, vegetation, peat depths with cross sections) are added. 
4179462| Zu den acht bisher bekannten Arten der Gattung Ramonia (cfr. Vzda 1966) wurden weitere zwei beigefgt: R. luteola sp. n. und R. gvalectiformis (Zahlbr.) comb. n. Es ist der Vergleich mit den, ihnen taxonomisch am nchsten stehenden Arten, gegeben. Um einen Vergleich auch mit brigen Ramonia-Arten zu ermglichen, ist der Schlssel fr alle Arten angefhrt. /// Au genre Ramonia doivent tre ajoutes deux nouvelles espces: 1. Ramonia luteola sp. n. dcouverte dans les Basses Tatras (Carpathes). Cette espce est proche parente de deux espces de Ramonia rencontres jusqu'ici en Europe: R. subsphaeroides (C. Tav.) Vzda et R. chrysophaea (Pers.) Vzda. Toutefois elle se distingue de celles-ci, en particulier par son hymnium moins haut et par ses spores plus petites, munies seulement de 7 cloisons transversales. Au point de vue cologique, R. luteola apparat comme une espce corticole, sciophile et ombrophobe, mais ncessitant un degr lev d'humidit atmosphrique. 2. Ramonia gyalectiformis (Zahlbr.) comb. n. dcrite primitivement comme une espce de Bilimbia. L'anatomie des fructifications correspond cependant bien  celle des Ramonia. A cause de l'excipulum sombre et du bord de l'ouverture centrale fendill-radi, cette espce appartient  la section Ramonia. Elle se distingue de deux expces dj dcrites dans cette section, R. valenzueliana (Mont.) Stiz. et R. absonsa (Tuck.) Vzda, notamment par ses spores plus grosses et groupes par 8 dans les asques. Contrairement aux autres Ramonia, habituellement corticoles, R. gyalectiformis crot sur la terre rase. 
4180133| Die synmorphologische, syntaxonomische, synkologische, symphnologische und synchorologisch Charakteristik der Assoziation Anthriscetum trichospermae Hejn et Krippelov in Hejn et al. 1979 ist angefhrt. Es handelt sich um eine wrmeliebende, nitrophile Therophyten-Gesellschaft auf lehmigen bis lehmig-sandigen Ruderalbden, die warme, lichte oder mssig beschattete Orte, steile Feldraine und Lese-Steinhaufen in Weingrten im sdlichen Teil des Gebirges Mal Karpaty (Westslowakei) besiedelt. Das Vorkommen dieser Assoziation ist auch von Ungarn angegeben. /// The synmorphological, syntaxonomical, synecological, symphenological, syndynamical and synchorological description of the association Anthriscetum trichospermae Hejn et Krippelov in Hejn et al. 1979 alliance Galio-Alliarion) is presented. Anthriscetum trichospermae is a therophytic a nitrophytic plant community growing on clayey and clayey-sandy ruderal soils. Can be found at warm, light or slightly shaded sites such as steep vineyard balk and stony ramparts in the southern part of Mal Karpaty Mountains (Western Slovakia). The occurrence of this association from the territory of Hungary is documented in the present study. 
4180967| The synanthropic vegetation in seven villages of Northern Greece (N Pindhos and Olympus massif) - situated either in the Quercion confertae or in the Fagetalia zone - is analyzed on the basis of about 100 phytosociological relevs. The most important vascular plant species of ruderal sites have also been mapped floristically. Nineteen plant communities are discernible, some of which are mentioned for the first time here. Nevertheless, the author refrains from hastily describing new associations, unless a more detailed phytosociological data basis on ruderal vegetation in the Southern Balkans is available. A table refers to differences and similarities between the recognized plant communities in Greek villages and those which correspond to them in Central Europe. Non-industrial methods of agriculture and animal husbandry are among the most important conditions for the remarkable rich vegetation in Greek mountain villages. 
4180497| The author analyses the process of apophytisation in the perennial nitrophilous species of the class Galio-Urticetea. By means of the deductive method, the syntaxonomical position of communities with the same dominant or subdominant species is evaluated in a sequence from autochthonous (natural) through natural-like to purely anthropogenic (allochthonous) phytocenoses. /// Es wird der Versuch einer syntaxonomischen Auswertung des Apophytisierungs-prozesses unserer einheimischen Arten der Galio-Urticetea-Gemeinschaften vorgelegt. Eine anthropisch bedingte sekundre Ausbreitung dieser Arten in allochthonen (anthropogenen) Gesellschaften verursacht einen Zerfall ihrer ursprnglichen znologischen Bindung an bestimmte autochthone (natrliche) Gemeinschaften der Convolvuletalia sepium- und Petasito-Chaerophylletalia-Einheiten. Das heisst, dass in einem bestimmten Gebiet dieselben Arten sowohl in natrlichen als auch anthropogenen Gesellschaften mit hoher Stetigkeit und hohem Deckungswert vertreten sein knnen. Diese Tatsache kann in sog. syntaxonomischen Derivatreihen (nach Kopeck et Hejn 1971) zum Ausdruck gebracht werden. Die syntaxonomischen Derivatreihen stellen eine Abfolge von den natrlichen zu den anthropogenen Znosen derselben Arten dar, wobei die ersten Glieder der Reihen von den natrlichen (autochthonen) Znosen gebildet werden. Diese von sog. Autoassoziationen zu den Anthropoassoziationen (im Sinne von Mirek 1981) fhrende Gesellschaftsentwicklung wird in vier Stufen des Apophytisierungsprozesses der einheimischen Gesellschaftskomponenten abgestuft. Die syntaxonomische Auswertung einzelner Gesellschaftstypen wurde unter Anwendung der sog. deduktiven Klassifikationsmethode durchgefhrt. Die Arbeit wird durch eine bersicht ber die im sdwestlichen Prager Gebiet vorkommenden Gesellschaftstypen abgeschlossen. 
4180853|The paper sums up the first results obtained from the study of belowground biomass estimated in natural and anthropic savanna communities in different regions of Cuba at the end of the 1984 rainy season. The percentage of living roots in total root biomass of natural savannas was lower (34-50%) than that in the anthropic savanna stands (68-74%). The total belowground biomass in three savanna stands ranged from 1,073 to
4179434| Root-tip chromosome counts of 25 samples referable to two species, C. rotundifolia L. and C. polymorpha (Witasek) Prain et al., have been carried out. Seed was collected from different localities in Czechoslovakia, Denmark, England, Germany, Sweden, and Switzerland. Of the 21 samples belonging to C. rotundifolia L., 13 are shown to be diploid (2n = 34) and 4 were tetraploid (2n = 68). The other 4 samples were heterogeneous, including diploids, occasional tetraploids and triploid hybrids. In one diploid sample accessory chromosomes were recorded. All 4 samples of C. polymorpha (Witasek) Prain et al. from the Western Carpathians had 2n = 68. /// Es wurden die Chromosomenzahlen von 21 Populationen der Art C. rotundifolia L. und von 4 Populationen der Art C. polymorpha (Witasek) Prain et al. bestimmt. Die Untersuchung erfolgte an wild gesammeltem Material von verschiedenen Standorten in der Tschechoslowakei, Dnemark, Deutschland, England, Schweden und der Schweiz. Aus den Ergebnissen geht hervor, dass die diploide Form (2n = 34) von C. rotundifolia in Mitteleuropa ziemlich verbreitet ist. So erwiesen sich insgesamt 13 Populationen als diploid. Diploide Formen werden auch fr England erstmals nachgewiesen. In 4 diploiden Populationen wurden sporadische Tetraploide sowie triploide Hybriden beobachtet. Bei einer diploiden Population aus England konnten akzessorische Chromosomen gefunden werden. C. polymorpha aus den Westkarpaten ist tetraploid mit 2n = 68. 
4179752| A new species, Heliotropium gossypii Ponert, is described from N.E. Iran. Observations made in the type locality suggest that this new species may be a facultative cotton weed. The following diagnostic characters separate H. gossypii from H. noanum Boiss., H. sultanense Bunge and H. chorassanicum Bunge: branching of inflorescence, calyx persistent, up to 3.5 mm long, corolla less than 2 mm in diameter, anthers 0.85 mm long, superstigmatic part of style erecto-pilose throughout, nutlets 2 mm long, shortly pilose. 
4179844| Aufgrund des Studiums von Diasporologie der Familie Fabaceae und anderer Arten der tschechoslowakischen Flora wurde im vorliegenden Beitrag die diasporologische Terminologie durch folgende neue Fachausdrcke ergnzt: Hydroballochorie, Xeroballochorie, Euxeroballochorie, Hemixeroballochorie. Die Xerochasie ist in Euxerochasie und Pseudoxerochasie und die Hygrochasie in Euhygrochasie, Hemihygrochasie und Pseudohygrochasie geteilt. Bei der Synaptospermie wird Eusynaptospermie und Pseudosynaptospermie unterscheidet. Weiter wurde ein neuer Typ der Arokarpie - die Chamelokarpie beschrieben, der in Euchamelokarpie und Pseudochamelokarie eingeteilt ist. 
4180687|A successional vegetation mosaic occurring on a prehistoric lava field of the Hekla volcano is described. The unique lava formation is associated with two vegetation types, distinct floristically as well as phytosociologically. In one vegetation type cryptograms dominate; the other is dominated by small leaved graminoids and chamaephytic plants.
4180170| Das Anthriscetum sylvestris Hada 1978 (Verband Aegopodion podagrariae), eine expansive Ruder algesellschaft, wurde auf Grund von 36, aus der ganzen Slowakei stammenden, Vegetationsa ufnahmen charakterisiert. In Bezug auf die floristische und kologische Diversitt wurden die folgenden neuen Syntaxa ausgeschieden: A. s. brometosum sterilis (mit der typischen Variante und der Variante mit Poa nemoralis) und A. s. potosum trivialis (mit der typischen Variante und der Variante mit Ranunculus repens). Die syntaxonomischen und syndynamischen Beziehungen der Assoziation werden diskutiert. /// The Anthriscetum sylvestris (alliance Aegopodion podagrariae) is a ruderal plant community with high expansibility. The characteristic of this association is presented on the basis of 36 vegetation relevs from the area of Slovakia. The following lower ranked syntaxa were distinguished as to floristical and ecotopical diversity: Anthriscetum sylvestris brometosum sterilis (typical variant and var. with Poa nemoralis) and Anthriscetum sylvestris potosum trivialis (typical variant and var. with Ranunculus repens). The former subassociation is characteristic for typical ruderal sites (dumps, edges of dry dunghills). Phytocoonoses of the Anthriscetum sylvestris potosum trivialis occupy wetter sites (road ditches, abandoned fruit gardens). The presence of the Molinio-Arrhenatheretea character species is important for the delimitation of the Anthriscetum sylvestris potosum trivialis. Syntaxonomic and syndynamical relations of the community under consideration are discussed. 
4179454| Chromosome numbers of the Czechoslovak species of the genus Lotus, from various localities have been determined. The paper includes the species Lotus uliginosus Schkuhr, L. tenuis Waldst. et Kit. and L. borbsii Ujhelyi. 
4180217|The paper gives the chromosome numbers for 38 species of the Mongolian Flora. Some of the counts appear to be the first findings for the species. They are: Allium anisopodium 2n = 16, Caltha membranacea 2n = 32, Carex macroura 2n = 50, Carex redowskiana 2n = 26, Gastrolychnis brachypetala 2n = 72, Iris biglumis 2n = 40, Iris flavissima 2n = 28 and Vicia multicaulis 2n = 24.
4179459| Mire plant communities of the W. Krkonoe mountains may be grouped in 11 associations and 3 alliances: Caricion canescentis-fuscae, Rhynchosporion albae and Oxycocco-Empetrion hermaphroditi. The ecology, structure and geographical distribution of the communities, as well as the ecology of the species occurring in them are discussed. /// Die Autoren haben im westlichen Teil des Riesengebirges insgesamt 11 Assoziationen der Moore gefunden und zu folgenden hheren Einheiten gruppiert: Caricion canescentis-fuscae, Unterverb. Drepanocladion exannulati (mesotrophe Moorgesellschaften) Calliergo sarmentosi-Eriophoretum angustifolii Sphagno recurvi-Caricetum rostratae Junco filiformis-Sphagnetum recurvi * Polytricho communis-Molinietum coeruleae Rhynchosoporion albae, Unterverb. Leuko-Scheuchzerion (Gesellschaften der Schlenke und Tmpel in Hochmooren) * Carici rostratae-Drepanocladetum fluitantis Sphagno Dusenii-Caricetum limosae Sphagno Lindbergii-Caricetum limosae Oxycocco-Empetrion hermaphroditi (Bultengesellschaften der Hochmoore) Trichophoretum austriaci * Sphagno robusti-Empetretum hermaphroditi Eriophoro vaginati-Polytrichetum stricti Chamaemoro-Pinetum mughi. Die drei Assoziationen, die mit Sternchen bezeichnet sind, werden als neue Assoziationen beschrieben, die brigen sind mit schon beschriebenen Gesellschaften identifiziert. Die Struktur, kologie und Verbreitung der besprochenen Gesellschaften, und die Autkologie einzelner Arten, die dort wachsen, werden diskutiert. Die Moorgesellschaften von Krkonoe (Riesengebirge) zeigen eine enge Verwandtschaft zu den Gesellschaften von Skandinavia, Erzgebirge und Gesenke. 
4181170| In this paper we present a synopsis of the rupicolous vegetation found in Galicia, according to the Zrich-Montpellier School. The climate of this territory, an area of 29,439 km
4181375|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat & Moravec 1995), the present work collects the syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1992. The list comprises 127 names of syntaxa.
4179490|Chromosome numbers of 46 samples referable to the species Jasione montana L. were examined. The material originated from different localities in Portugal, France, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and the Soviet Union. All the samples were found to be diploid, having 2n = 12 chromosomes. The aneuploid number, 2n = 14, is shown to be limited to the var. litoralis Fries. Polyploidy has not been observed.
4179761| Die dritte Studie aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) enthlt die taxonomische Bearbeitung des Subg. Jungermannia Subg. Liochlaena (Nees) S. Arnell. Nach dem Verfasser gehren zu diesem Subgenus nur zwei Arten, J. leiantha Grolle und J. subulata Evans. /// The third study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Synonymy, description and keys to the species of the subgenus Liochlaena (Nees) S. Arnell (genus Jungermannia). 2. Synonymy, drawings, description, type, exsiccata, ecological notes, distribution, material examined, taxonomical notes, variability and relationships of 2 species of the subgenus Liochlaena (Nees) S. Arnell. 3. Discussion of all infraspecific taxa on the basis of the concept of habitat modifications. 
4179430| Die Verfasserin berichtet ber die Entdeckung des in Krockers "Flora Silesiaca" (1790) verffentlichten Fundes des nordamerikanischen Ankmmlings Bidens frondosa L. in der Umgebung von Wrocaw (deutsch Breslau) im Jahre 1777. Dieser alte Fund blieb bisher von Botanikern unbeachtet. Die Analyse der Beschreibung besttigte die Richtigkeit der von Krocker vorgenommenen Bestimmung dieser Art. Die Ermittlung dieses Fundes begrndet die Vermutung, dass der Oderflussweg fr die Ausbreitung von Bidens frondosa in Mitteleuropa von primrer Bedeutung ist. 
4181489|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1993, 1028 names have been listed and the validity of each one is considered in relation to the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature. Two names are given in addition to the Index 1992 (Theurillat & Moravec 1995).
4181424|Die-back and healthy stands of Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud., in the U.K. and Hungary, were compared in terms of plant morphology and anatomy, sediment redox potential and sulphide levels and plant resistance to internal Poiseuille gas flow. In laboratory experiments rhizome cuttings were exposed to acetic acid or dissolved sulphide in unstirred solution cultures in order to determine whether the die-back symptoms found in the field could be induced by these phytotoxins. Most of the die-back symptoms, namely stunting of adventitious roots and laterals, bud death, callus blockages of the gas-pathways, and vascular blockages (both xylem and phloem), were produced by each of the phytotoxin treatments. These symptoms were largely absent from healthy field sites and from the experimental controls. In a greenhouse experiment, plants were grown in waterlogged sand or loam, with or without a sub-surface organic layer composed of chopped-up rhizomes and roots mixed with the soil base. Especially during the first 70 days, redox levels were considerably lowered, and shoot numbers and shoot growth much reduced by the presence of the organic layers; the effects were most pronounced in the sand plus organic matter treatment. It is suggested that accumulated phytotoxins, e.g. organic acids and/or sulphide, whether produced from the death and decay of the plant, or from excessive organic loading or as an indirect result of eutrophication, will perpetuate the die-back of Phragmites and prevent the recovery of the plant in the short term.
4179558| Auf Grund der neuentdeckten Quellen wurde die Art Iva xanthiifolia schon im Jahre 1934 in der Tschechoslowakei gefunden. Im Jahre 1936 waren schon 4 Fundorte in der Sdslowakei bekannt. Angesichts der unterschiedlichen Progressivitt der Art in Bhmen und in der Slowakei wurde die Keimungsbiologie der Diasporen von drei Fundorten in der Slowakei (enkov, urany, Bratislava) und von Nymburk (Bhmen) verglichen, wobei interessante Unterschiede ans Licht kamen. Der Unterschied zwischen den Populationen aus dem Osten und Westen des Staates kann durch die klimatischen Bedingungen, bzw. durch die verschiedene Provenienz erklrt werden. Beim Studium der Karpologie wurde die Heterokarpie der Frchte festgestellt. In der vorliegenden Arbeit wird der gegenwrtige Zustand der Verbreitung der Art in der Tschechoslowakei zusammengefasst. /// Iva xanthiifolia was not introduced to Czechoslovakia after the Second World War, but considerably before this period. In 1934, F. Weber collected this species at 3 localities in the neighbourhood of urany (S. Slovakia), and his further collection dates from 1936. This may explain why the richest centre of occurrence in Czechoslovakia is in this region. At that time the big farms of this region used to obtain most of the cereals for cultivation or fodder from Hungary and Rumania; since the localities of this weed species are all situated near the big farms we suppose that was introduced with the grain. The ability of Iva xanthiifolia to spread seems to be considerably different in Slovakia and in Bohemia. We examined therefore the viability of achenes from three localities in Slovakia (enkov, Bratislava, urany) and from one in Bohemia (Nymburk). Our experiments showed differences in the biology of germinating achenes from the two regions (see Tab. 2). The differences may perhaps be explained in terms of adaptation to different climatic conditions (more continental in Slovakia), or of different origin of the two populations. It cannot be excluded that the achenes of the Bohemian population had been introduced directly from North America or indirectly from Germany, after the war. The actual distribution of Iva xanthiifolia in Czechoslovakia has been worked out from all main Czechoslovakia herbaria, as well as from our own or our colleagues' field observations; (see Fig. 10). From the present distribution the probable future spreading of Iva xanthiifolia can be predicted. The vertical distribution of the species is shown in Fig. 9, its actual distribution is characterized macroclimatically in Fig. 7 and 8. Carpological studies have revealed that achenes of Iva xanthiifolia are heterocarpic (see Fig. 8); the reason for this heterocarpy is the localisation of the fruits in the fruithead. 
4179561| Der Gattungsname Aconitopsis Kem.-Nath. 1940 ist ein Synonym der gltig beschriebenen Gattung Aconitella Spach 1839; diese Gattung umfasst 10 Arten und steht der Gattung Consolida S. A. Gray am nchsten. Neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen fr die Arten der Gattung Aconitella werden verffentlicht. 
4180694|It is suggested to add to Walter's "two dimensional" (temperature-precipitation) climatograms a third dimension, i.e. the daylength and sunshine variation.
4179947|Hesperis matronalis L. subsp. matronalis contains various genoms having the same chromosome number (2n = 24), differing, however, by the r-index of some pairs of homologous chromosomes. Diploid sets of the taxa Hesperis matronalis L. subsp. matronalis, Hesperis sylvestris Crantz subsp. sylvestris, Hesperis sylvestris Crantz subsp. velenovskyi (Fritsch) Borza and Hesperis steveniana DC. are compared.
4181124|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat et Moravec 1991a), the present work collects the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1989. The list comprises 110 names of syntaxa.
4180912| The conditions of embryo development, of germination and sprouting in the species Pulsatilla slavica (north Carpathian endemite) were ascertained. By studies of germination ecology of Pulsatilla slavica it was found that the development of the underdeveloped embryo and germination set in at about 10 C to about 30 C. Of the temperatures examined, the temperature of about 25 C, and alternating ones, the temperature of 10/30 C appeared to be the optima. At the temperature of 25 C, the rate of loss of germination capacity was ascertained partly in fully ripe achenes, partly in achenes collected in the stage of wax-ripeness. After 39 weeks of room storage, 62.6% of fully ripe achenes and 32.6% of achenes collected in the stage of waxripeness germinated. The achenes sown after full ripeness in the middle of June sprouted in the middle of July, those sown at the beginning of October sprouted during the first decade of May, and those sown at the beginning of April sprouted during the third decade of May. Pulsatilla slavica reproduces spontaneously only in the generative way, but it can also be propagated vegetatively by root cuttings. 
25130304|Phytosociological analysis of savanna and forb-rich communities in the Pinar del Rio Province was done in the area of Remates de Guane; one locality lies on the seashore in the western part of the province. Altogether six associations were distinguished. Five of them, viz. Sclerio curtissii-Centelletum erectae, Schultezio guianensis-Rhynchosporetum fascicularis, Cassio diphyllae-Hypericetum stypheloidis, Polygalo squamifoliae-Dichromenetum seslerioidis and Phyllantho juncei-Aristidetum, all newly described in this paper, are classified into the order of Acoelorapho-Colpothrinacetalia Bal.-Tul. in Bal.-Tul. et Capote 1985 with two alliances. One association, the Paspalo debilis-Asteretum grisebachii Bal.-Tul. et Capote 1992, was put into the order of Asteretalia grisebachii Bal.-Tul. in Bal.-Tul. et Capote 1992 with one alliance bound to inland moving dunes. The plant composition reflects soil quality, above all the water regime. Very interesting is the presence of the Byrsonimo crassifoliae-Andropogonetalia teneris-species in the association of Polygalo-Dichromeneteum seslerioidis indicating the rich presence of stones in the upper part of the soil profile.
4179423| Various possibilities of using Srensen's coefficient of floristic similarity in plant sociology are summarized. A new formula (11), derived from that by Srensen and based on constancy values, is suggested in order to calculate the mean floristic similarity within a set of relevs. /// Der vorliegende Artikel fasst alle Mglichkeiten der Anwendung des Srensen's Koefizienten der floristischen Verwandschaft zusammen. Die im Text angefhrten Formeln dienen zur Berechnung der durchschnittlichen floristischen Verwandschaft zwischen zwei Gruppen der Aufnahmen und zwischen der Gruppe und der selbstndigen Aufnahme. Zwei Formeln (11) und (12) werden neu vorgeschlagen, die zur Berechnung der durchschnittlichen floristischen Verwandschaft in den Grenzen einer Gruppe der Aufnahme dienen, wenn nur Konstanzwerte verwendet werden. 
4180740| The report informs on progress in compilation of the Vegetation Map of Europe between 1981 and 1985. The most important results are the first version of the complete legend to the Vegetation Map of Europe and the first draft of unified maps for the territory of Central and Southeast Europe. /// Die wichtigsten Ergebnisse der Arbeiten am Projekt der Vegetationskarte Europas in den Jahren 1981-1985 sind folgende: 1. Die Rahmengliederung der europischen Vegetation in Haupteinheiten fr die Legende wurde erarbeitet und bei mehreren nationalen Kartenentwrfen berprft. Die Haupteinheiten spiegeln die klimabedingten zonalen (bzw. zonal-etagalen) Vegetationsgrtel und die wichtigsten azonalen Erscheinungen wider und entsprechen den Formationseinheiten verschiedener Rangstufen, zum Teil den kologisch oder rumlich nahestehenden Formationskomplexen. 2. Die Arbeit an der hierarchisierten Gesamtlegende aller Haupteinheiten der ganzeuropischen Karte wurde beendet. Die neue Fassung der Gesamtlegende wird publiziert. Als Kartierungsein-heiten sind die sich durch bestimmte Dominanten und floristische Merkmale unterscheidenden regionalen Ausbildungen der natrlichen Vegetation festgelegt. Die Kartierungseinheiten besitzen die Farbtne der entsprechenden Formationen bzw. ihrer unmittelbar nachgeordneten Untereinheiten und sind mit kennzeichnenden Symbolen versehen. Ihre etagale Zugehrigkeit ist durch Schraffierungen verschiedener Richtungen dargestellt. 3. Fr einen grossen Teil von Europa wurden die Kartenentwrfe auf einheitlicher kartographischer Grundlage (im Masstab 1: 2,5 Mio.) nach der einheitlichen Gesamtlegende hergestellt und grsstenteils auch in den Grenzgebieten abgestimmt. 4. Das Projekt der Vegetationskarte Europas wird seit 1983 im Rahmen des wissenschaftlichen Programmes der IUBS als Aufgabe 4.4 realisiert. 
4181185|In the present contribution, a brief survey of the progress of work on the Vegetation map of Europe within the last two years is given. The most important tasks of this period were: 1) Continuing compilation and completion of the thirteen remaining sheets of the Map, scale 1:2,500,000, 2) Elaboration of the explanatory text, 3) Compilation of a General vegetation map of Europe, scale 1:10,000,000.
4181374|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire et Jardin botaniques in Geneva. For the year 1992, 658 names have been listed. For each one of them, an appreciation about its validity is given relating to the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature. Fifteen names are given in addition to the Indexes 1987, 1990 and 1991 (Theurillat & Moravec 1990, 1993, 1994).
4179779|A study of the terrestrial polypore Albatrellus subrubescens (Murrill) Pouz. (= A. similis) was undertaken. Its morphology, taxonomy, nomenclature, distribution and ecology is discussed.
4180394|Taxonomic and chorological remarks on the Hieracium flora of the Caucasian countries are given. A list contains localities of 28 taxa of the genus Hieracium (incl. Pilosella) from Georgia and Armenia. H. piloselloides (sensu auct. medioeurop.) is new for the Soviet part of Transcaucasia.
4179858| A new monotypic genus based on Ptosimopappus bracteatus Boiss. = Centaurea ptosimopappa Hayek is described. The history of its classification and relationships to Cheirolophus Cass. and Microlophus Cass. are discussed. /// Die Art Ptosimopappus bracteatus Boiss. 1849 steht in der Sutribus Centaureinae sehr isoliert. Vom Boissier wurde sie in Cheirolophus Cass. (unter dem Gattungsnamen Ptosimopappus Boiss. 1845) eingereiht; einige wichtige Merkmale zeigen jedoch, dass Cheirolophus zu einer anderen und entwicklungsgeschichtlich primitiveren Gruppe der Gattungen in Centaureinae als Ptosimopappus bracteatus gehrt. Auch in der Gruppe der Gattungen, die den Pollen-Typus "Jacea" wie diese Art besitzen, kann Ptosimopappus bracteatus kaum befriedigend phylogenetisch an irgendeine dieser Gattungen angeknpft werden. Manche morphologische Merkmale sind mit Microlophus Cass. gemeinsam, aber die karpologischen Unterschiede zeigen, dass Ptosimopappus bracteatus zu einer anderen Entwicklungslinie als Microlophus gehren muss. Die isolierte Stellung dieser Art kann in unseren Klassifikationsbersichten nur durch ihre Annahme als einen Vertreter einer monotypischen Gattung ausgedrckt werden. Dies wurde zwar vor kurzer Zeit vom Dostl vorgeschlagen; der von ihm gebrauchte Gattungsname Ptosimopappus ist aber regelwidrig. Deswegen wurde hier eine neue Gattung beschrieben, und zwar unter dem Namen Petrodavisia. 
4181445|Podotara gen. nov. (incertae sedis) is described. It is based on the foliicolous taxon P. pilophoriformis sp. nov., which is described and illustrated. Characteristic of the new genus and species are globose and stipitate apothecia and 3-septate, hyaline, thin-walled ascospores with annular thickening of the septa. Scoliciosporum lividum sp. nov. (Scoliciosporaceae) differs from all species of its genus known to date by its leprose grey thallus, its livid, globose, dull apothecia, and its 3-septate ascospores spirally contorted in the ascus.
4179994| 103 new nomenclatural combinations are proposed for taxa of European flora, 95 for species, 8 for subspecies. Most of them have resulted from a more natural delimitation of genera. The majority of new combinations are made in the segregants of Centaurea (Acosta - 16, Colymbada - 8), Hieracium (Pilosella - 16), Scabiosa (Trochocephalus - 14), Serratula (Klasea - 13) and Leontodon (Scorzoneroides - 8). Taxonomic or nomenclatural problems of some taxa (Arum orientale, Colobium taraxacoides, Klasea, Leucanthemopsis alpina agg., Psyllium, Scorzoneroides, Tephroseris cantabrica) are discussed. Names omitted from the Index Kewensis and corrections of publication places are added (17 names). /// In dem Beitrag werden manche Arten aus dem vierten Band der "Flora Europaea" behandelt, bei denen sich die Klassifikation des Verfassers von der dort akzeptierten unterscheidet. 103 neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen sind vorgeschlagen, 95 fr Arten, 8 fr Unterarten. Die Mehrheit der neuen nomenklatorischen Kombinationen stellt das Ergebnis der Bestrebung nach einer natrlicheren Begrenzung der Gattungen vor; dies ussert sich in der Annahme eines engeren Gattungsbegriffes. Eine solche Auffassung der Gattungsklassifikationseinheit ist fr die Segreganten der folgenden Gattungen gebraucht: Centaurea (Acosta, Calcitrapa, Calcitrapoides, Colymbada, Cyanus, Jacea), Serratula (Klasea), Chrysanthemum (Leucanthemopsis), Hieracium (Pilosella), Plantago (Psyllium), Leontodon (Colobium, Scorzoneroides), Scabiosa (Trochocephalus), Anthemis (Cota), Petasites (Nardosmia), Lactuca (Scariola) und Senecio (Tephroseris). Bemerkungen ber die taxonomischen oder nomenklatorischen Probleme mancher Taxa stellen einen wichtigen Teil des Beitrages dar. Als ein Ergebnis des Studiums der tschechoslowakischen Vertreter der Gattung Arum fr das Bestimmungsbuch der tschechoslowakischen Flora ist der Text ber die taxonomische Problematik von Arum orientale s. 1. hier auch hinzugefgt. Mitteleuropische Pflanzen aus dem Umkreise von Arum orientale sind vom Verfasser als subsp. besseranum bewertet; sie unterscheiden sich von den typischen kaukasischen Pflanzen nur durch die Form und die Farbe der Kolbenscheide. Es gibt keine Grnde fr ihre Bewertung als eine selbstndige Art oder sogar als zwei oder mehrere Arten. Bei der Art Leontodon saxatilis Lam. (die zur Gattung Colobium gehrt) folgt der Verfasser der Auffassung von Finch et Sell und nimmt das Epitheton "taraxacoides" als richtig fr die Benennung dieser Art an. Die Gattung Klasea Cass., verschieden von Serratula hauptschlich durch ihre Chromosomengrundzahl, ist als taxonomisch berechtigt angenommen. In der Leucanthemopsis alpina agg. von Alpen und Westkarpathen werden drei Unterarten unterschieden, hauptschlich auf Grund der Blattmerkmale und teilweise ihrer Chromosomenzahlen. Im Text, der die Gattung Psyllium behandelt, wird das Problem der Namen der Gandoger'schen Mikrotaxa berhrt, dann die Frage des richtigen Namens fr Plantago indica L. oder P. arenaria Waldst. et Kit. gelst und zuletzt werden die nomenklatorischen Probleme der sdstlichen Unterart dieser Art diskutiert. Auschluss von Scorzoneroides Moench (gegrndet auf Leontodon autumnalis L.) vom Leontodon als eine selbstndige Gattung wird hier als richtig angenommen, speziel in Hinsicht auf die Unterschiede in den Haartypen und in den Chromosomengrundzahlen. Die frher vorgeschlagene Kombination Tephroseris pyrenaica war auf einem illegitimen Namen (Homonym) gegrndet und muss mit einer neuen Kombination T. cantabrica ersetzt werden. Manche Arten, die vom "Index Kewensis" unterlassen wurden so wie auch Verbesserungen der Namen der Autoren und der Zitationen der Verffentlichungsorten in diesem Werk sind in einem Anhang am Schlusse des Beitrages angefhrt. 
25130307|Leaf indumentum characteristics of 52 taxa of the genus Biscutella are examined by hand lens, stereo- and scanning electron microscopy. Hairs occur on all vegetative organs of all taxa except B. laevigata subsp. lucida which is completely glabrous and shining. Trichomes are simple unicellular and attenuate but are variable in structure, size and distribution both within and between species. Eight types of indumenta are recognized and these include hispid/hirsute, puberulent, tomentose, villous and velutinous. Each type varies in abundance from sparse to dense within the genus. In a few cases, indumentum is species-specific; for example, the whitish tomentose hair covering of B. frutescens distinguishes this species from the remaining species of the genus. In other taxonomically important species affinities are indicated. The occurrence of indumentum is discussed in relation to the various roles usually ascribed to this feature.
4181444|A total of 6 population samples of Myosotis stenophylla Knaf, a rare species showing great ecological disjunction in its distribution, were examined to clarify the present status of its karyological variation. In order to elucidate relationships between lowland tetraploid populations of M. stenophylla and diploid and tetraploid montane populations of M. alpestris F.W. Schmidt, four population samples of M. alpestris were also examined. The karyotypes of all populations of M. alpestris s.l. studied were highly asymmetrical and heterogeneous, being composed of metacentric, submetacentric, subtelocentric and satellited acrocentric chromosomes. The karyotype formula for haploid chromosome set was established:
4181490|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat & Moravec 1996), the present work brings together the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1993. The list comprises 218 syntaxa.
4181473|Examination of the embryo and endosperm development in triploid Chondrilla juncea L. (2n=15) from Poland confirmed the occurrence of autonomous apomixis in this species. Numerous degenerated embryos were formed which might be one of the factors which increased the observed seed sterility. In addition, twin embryos were often found at young developmental stages and in germinating seeds. Endosperm developed from polar nuclei or from the secondary nucleus. These processes have been proved by counting chromosome numbers in early developmental stages of the endosperm. The problems of the prevailing type of endosperm (nuclear or cellular), the correlation of embryo and endosperm development and the period of cellularization of nuclear endosperm have remained unsolved.
4180014| The author describes four new apomict species of Alchemilla L. ser. Hirsutae H. Lindb. They appear to be endemic in the Western Carpathians, growing there on some few mountain ranges, mostly in synanthropic habitats. Their known distribution areas seem to be  separate. Two numerical indices called the epicalyx index and the hypanthium index respectively are defined to characterise the proportion of an Alchemilla flower. Ranges of both indices are shown for each of the new species. 
4181060|Two new orchid species from the terrestrial genera Liparis and Pelexia are described, from field collections near Tiradentes, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The descriptions are based on floral analyses, comparison of herbarium specimens, and literature.
4179733| Auf Grund der taxonomisch-chorologischen Analyse des Pflanzenmaterials von Thlaspi jankae A. Kern. erwies sich als berechtigt, im Verwandtschaftskreis desselben eine neue Art, Thlaspi finitimum sp.n., zu unterscheiden. Die in den nordungarischen Hgellndern und Gebirgen wachsenden Pflanzen gehren zum T. jankae A. Kern., whrend das Vorkommen der neu aufgestellten Art T. finitimum auf das Gebiet der sdslowakischen Zobor-Berge (N von Nitra) und des Sdslowakischen Karstes beschrnkt ist. /// In the present paper a new species from South Slovakia (the Zobor Mountains, the South Slovakian Karst) is described-Thlaspi finitimum Dvokov-belonging to the Thlaspi jankae complex. T. finitimum, differs from T. jankae A. Kern., morphologically, by its chromosome number (2n = 28), and by its own area. This new species is a part of the polyploid series: T. jankae (2x; 2n = 14) - T. finitimum (4x; 2n = 28) - T. goesingense (8x; 2n = 56). Plants belonging to the species T. finitimum (which is endemic to Czechoslovakia) have so far been described as T. jankae; from the taxonomic revision of the T. jankae complex it follows that T. jankae A. Kern. does not grow in Czechoslovakia, it is limited only to the territory of Hungary, where the centre of its distribution is in the Hungarian Central Mountains in northern Hungary. 
25130309|The summer phytoplankton of ultraoligotrophic Lake Hubsugul, Mongolia, was studied in 1985-1989. 24 taxa, mostly belonging to the chlorococcal algae, are illustrated and their main diagnostic features discussed. Two new combinations, Monoraphidium pseudomirabile (Kor.) Hind. et Zagor, and Oocystella mongolia (Antip.) Hind. et Zagor, are created.
4179557| Das Scheidenbltgras (Coleanthus subtilis) ist eine der seltensten Pflanzenarten der europischen Flora. Das Gras besiedelt als Pionierart im Verein mit anderen niedrigwchsigen Therophyten vorbergehend wasserfreie Schlammbden der Teiche. Durch die Entdeckung von Coleanthus subtilis im Gebiet der Westerwlder Seenplatte (Westdeutschland) im Juli 1962 wurde ein neuer isolierter Wuchsort dieser bemerkenswerten Pflanzenart in Europa nachgewiesen. Dieser unerwartete Neufund gab Anstoss, dem sehr sporadischen Auftreten unserer unscheinbaren, winzigen Grasart in Europa nachzugehen. ber Funde in Deutsch-land wurde bereits an anderer Stelle berichtet (Woike 1968). Hier folgt eine Zusammen-fassung der bekanntgewordenen Beobachtungen in den Lndern Europas. /// The paper discusses the sporadic occurrence of the grass species Coleanthus subtilis (Tratt.) Seidl in Europe. This inconspicuous plant was first found on the territory what is now Czechoslovakia, in 1811. Later on, it was found also in Norway, Austria, Italy, France, Germany and USSR. It has been also reported from Asia (lower Amur region, West Siberia) and from North America (Columbia River). Coleanthus subtilis is a therophyte appearing suddenly on the muddy soil surface of drained fishponds or of river banks; records of its occurrence in these habitats are, however, rare. This fact is rather difficult to explain. In the plant sociological system, Coleanthus subtilis belongs to the alliance Nanocyperion, being a characteristic species of Eleocharetum ovatae (= E. soloniensis) - Tab. 1. The author has attempted to summarize the data on the occurrence and present distribution of Coleanthus subtilis in Europe. Up to now, the species seems to be relatively most frequent in Czechoslovakia, as is shwon in Hejn's paper, in this number of this journal. The localities of Coleanthus subtilis are indicated in Fig. 1, from which the disjunctive area of distribution in Europe is easy to recognize. The localities tend to be grouped around three centres: France (Brittany), Central Europe (Czechoslovakia and adjacent areas of Central Germany and Lower Austria) and Russia (S. of Lake Ladoga). Three localities at which occurrence of Coleanthus subtilis was reported in the last century or at the beginning of this century, have disappeared. They were in S. Norway near Oslo, N. Italy near Bolzano, and S. W. Germany near Mannheim. Another isolated locality was discovered in W. Germany (Westerwald) only in 1962. 
4179905|In this paper the process of establishing equilibrium in ecosystems is explored, and compared to the process of transformation. This process changes the state of organisms from absent to present, and the reverse, and if functioning randomly on very large numbers of individuals, results in biological equilibrium which can be expressed by the ratio (e - x): 1, with x = 1 at Natural Biological Equilibrium (NBE). A model of ecosystems shows that four basic factors are operative in ecosystems: the constraint, or habitat-type; the regulator, or carrying capacity of the substrate; the input, or organisms; and the operator, death. The Theory of Biological Equilibrium (TBE) proposed, postulates that Natural Biological Equilibrium is reached when the individuals in an ecosystem are in dynamic balance with the carrying capacity of the substrate of the ecosystem. The TBE provides the theoretical basis for the Canonical Hypothesis, which postulates that the parameters in eco- systems are fixed, and can be computed from the number of species in the system. The TBE is in agreement with many well-known ecological phenomena, provides the basis for several hypotheses, and forces the rejection of some traditional hypotheses, viz., the hypothesis of competition as a factor in ecosystems.
4180245|The estimation of underground standing crop of individual plant species in a natural grassland ecosystem without direct measurement of screened plant material is described. A mathematical formulation technique has been designed by correlating the variables fresh weight, dry weight, ash weight and also nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, sodium, calcium, sulphur and magnesium content of the plant species.
4181100| Chromosome numbers compared with as yet published data are given for the following 12 Phanerogams (both native species and aliens) from Czechoslovakia: Ambrosia trifida L., Cardamine chelidonia L., Daphne cneorum L., Epipactis albensis Novkov et Rydlo, Linum flavum L. subsp. flavum, Lunaria rediviva L., Nepeta grandiflora M. Bieb., Reseda luteola L., Thlaspi montanum L., Tithymalus salicifolius (Host) Klotzsch et Garcke, Tithymalus virgultosus (Klokov) Holub and Verbascum speciosum Schrad. subsp. speciosum. The chromosome number 2n = 40 is presented for the first time in autogamous Epipactis albensis Novkov et Rydlo. New chromosome numbers were found in Cardamine chelidonia L. (2n = 32) and in Tithymalus salicifolius (Host) Klotzch et Garcke (2n = 40). Known but less frequent cytotypes are reported in Linum flavum L. subsp. flavum (2n = 28) and in Verbascum speciosum Schrad. subsp. speciosum (2n = 30). 
4181273|The comparison of published data on clonal morphology of closely related species and/or data on comparative morphology of larger groups of related species showed that most of the variation observed is more related to history than to putative selection pressures within present plant communities. Historical factors include both phylogeny and climatic conditions experienced in the past. Inheritance of clonal growth traits is variable even within one genus and is hard to predict namely in polyploid groups. Community parameters and architectural traits may be closely related in the case of hybrid speciation when the divergence of newly formed taxa may be very rapid and easily influenced by short term community parameters; however there are very few well documented examples.
4180472| In the protected landscape region of Jizersk hory Mts., the following tall-herb communities of the suballiance Filipendulenion (all. Calthion) were ascertained and studied: Lysimachio vulgari-Filipenduletum Bal.-Tul. 1978, Valeriano officinali-Filipenduletum Siss. in Westhoff et al. 1946, Chaerophyllo hirsuti-Filipenduletum Niemann, Heinrich et Hilbig 1973, Cirsio heterophylli-Filipenduletum Neuhusl et Neuhuslov-Novotn 1975, and Trollio altissimi-Filipenduletum Bal.-Tul. in Rybnek et al. 1984. Close relationships were found between the communities composition and the environmental factors. Of these, the following were studied: Altitude, substrate, climate, inclination and axposition, moisture, humus content and quality, pH, content of exchangeable H
4180474|The paper gives the chromosome number for 50 species of the Mongolian flora. Some of the counts appear to be the first findings for the species. They are: Draba eriopoda Turcz. ex Ledeb. 2n = 16, Lychnis sibirica L. 2n = 24, Papaver pseudocanescens M. Popov 2n = 42, Thymus baicalensis Serg. 2n = 28 and Viola gmeliniana Schultes 2n = 24.
4179505|An experiment, in which fertilizer was used for accelerating growth for studies on production processes, is described. In this Australian heathland-a community common on soils very deficient in phosphorus and other nutrients-responses to fertilizer consisted in increases in leaf area index and standing biomass above ground. Fertilizer had no effect on growth below ground. These results were derived in the second growing season after treatment; no statistically significant effect could be shown in the non-growing periods up to two years after treatment. Discussion is centred on the limitations to be expected of such natural communities used as experimental material on which fertilizer has been imposed as a major treatment.
4180560|Daily course of heat balance components (sensible heat, latent heat of evaporation and ground heat fluxes) and evapotranspiration were computed from meterological data recorded in a sedge-grass marsh in South Bohemia, Czechoslovakia. Bowen-ratio method and tank measurements were used, and several comparisons made with parallel aerodynamic measurements. Two simplified empirical formulae for calculating evapotranspiration are suggested: one based on net radiation, the other based on net radiation and on the difference between the mean relative air humidities at the upper and lower levels of the boundary layer above the stand. The seasonal courses and totals of heat-balance components and evapotranspiration obtained in three years (1977 to 1979) are compared and discussed.
4180214|Some soil physical properties and annual soil moisture dynamics are studied on some abandoned fields of the Bohemian Karst differing in age to find some regular changes during succession.
4179855| Over a period of several years, the ecology of germination of the seeds of Alliaria petiolata (M. Bieb.) Cavara et Grande has been studied, both in the laboratory and on an experimental plot at Prhonice. Using 11 seed samples collected in various regions of Czechoslovakia, experiments have shown that seeds of this species pass through a dormancy stage which is caused by physiological features of the embryo. Dormancy was interrupted in cold stratification at temperatures between +1 and +6 C. Germination started on between 60th and 97th day after the beginning of stratification, while, the majority of seeds germinated after 75 to 90 days. /// Die Keimungskologie von Alliaria petiolata wurde einige Jahre lang im Laboratorium und auf einer Versuchsparzelle in Prhonice untersucht. Bei Samen wurde der Einfluss folgender Faktoren verfolgt: der Verletzung des Perisperms, der die Keimung hemmende Stoffe (die Samen wurden in Wasser und Alkohol ausgelaugt), das Wrmeschocks, der trockenen Lagerung und der verschiedenen Temperaturen einschliesslich der Temperaturen unter Gefrierpunkt, der wechselnden Temperatur und der Temperaturen ber 30 C. Die Unterbrechung der Dormanz wurde erst bei jenen Samen erzielt, die bei Temperaturen von +1  bis +6 C, d. h. bei Varianten
4180316| The present study deals with five genera of hepatics in Africa, Isotachis Mitt., Anastrophyllum (Spruce) Steph., Tritomaria Schiffn. ex Loeske, Gymnocoleopsis (Schust.) Schust. and Lophozia (Dum.) Dum. All African populations of the genus Isotachis Mitt. are considered to be one species, I. aubertii (Schwaegr.) Mitt. Four species of Anastrophyllum (Spruce) Steph. (s.l.), A. auritum (Lehm.) Steph., A. piligerum (Nees) Spruce, A. subcomplicatum (Lehm. et Lindenb.) Steph. and A. minutum (Schreb.) Schust., and two species of Tritomaria Schiffn. ex Loeske, T. camerunensis S. Arnell and T. exsecta (Schrad.) Schiffn. ex Loeske occur in Africa. Gymnocoleopsis multiflora (Steph.) Schust. represents a genus and species hitherto unreported for the African flora. Finally, five Lophozia (Dum.) Dum. species, L. argentina (Steph.) Schust., L. capensis S. Arnell, L. decolorans (Limpr.) Steph., L. hedbergii S. Arnell and L. tristaniana (S. Arnell) Va, are reported from central and southern Africa; two of these (L. argentina (Steph.) Schust. and L. decolorans (Limpr.) Steph.) represent the first reports from Africa. 
4179747| In the southern parts of Scandinavia there occur two species of the Vicia cracca L. complex: Vicia cracca L., represented by the chromosome race 2n = 28, and V. oreophila ertov. Whereas V. oreophila predominantly inhabits habitats of primary character, especially near the coast, the tetraploid race of V. cracca, which is the commonest in other parts of area, occurs predominantly on sites of secondary character, such as the borders of paths, roads, meadows and bushy places. The two species differ in several characters. /// Die Vicia cracca L.-Gruppe ist in den sdlichen Teilen Skandinaviens durch zwei Arten V. cracca und V. oreophila, vertreten. Vicia cracca ist nach den bisher bekannten Angaben und nach den in der Gegenwart nachgeprften Populationen nur durch die Rasse mit der Chromosomenzahl 2n = 28 vertreten. Diese Rasse stellt eine phylogenetisch jngere, mehr abgeleitete Formengruppe der Art V. cracca dar. Sie ist sehr vernderlich und weist eine sehr breite kologische Amplitude auf. Sie besiedelt hufig auch sekundre Standorte. Vicia oreophila ist eine evolutionsaltertmliche ursprnglichere Art dieser Gruppe. Sie ist weniger vernderlich und hat eine engere kologische Amplitude. Sie kommt vorwiegend auf Standorten primren Charakters, meist im Kstenland, vor. Beide Arten sind in Sdskandinavien zerstreut bis stellenweise hufig verbreitet und dringen bis weit nordwrts vor. 
4180520|The litter-bag method was used to expose the native litter in five stands of three wetland communities (four of them were in a sedge-and-grass marsh and one was a willow carr) with increasing soil water content (a hydrosere) for 15 months in 1978 and 1979. The litter-mass changes, rates of litter decomposition, ash, N, P, K, Na and Ca contents were determined and expressed in terms of concentration and % remaining of initial amount of the respective element. Two main factors were distinguished that controlled the above characteristics: the overlying biomass effect that was most obvious at the end of August 1978, and the strong flood effect of spring 1979. The data on the living and dead plant biomass from all marsh sites and some data on climatic and hydrological conditions are also included.
4180417| On the basis of taxonomic and nomenclatural revisions of various plant groups 37 new nomenclatural combinations are proposed mostly for European phanerogamous taxa (21 for species, 14 for subspecies, 2 for hybrids.) Medicula Medicus, Pseudofumaria Medicus and Thlasidia Rafin. are accepted as taxonomically justified genera and correct generic names. Dactylorhiza longebracteata (F. W. Schmidt) Holub is proposed instead of D. fuchsii (Druce) So, and Hylotelephium triphyllum (Haworth) Holub instead of H. purpureum (L.) Holub. 
4179420| Thesium hispanicum is a newly described species, stenoendemic for the area of the mountains Picos de Europa in north Spain. It is the westernmost representative of the series Micrantha, distributed in several species from beyond Transcaucasian and Turkish Kurdistan over the whole northern portion of the Mediterranean. /// Zu den bisher aus Spanien bekannten Arten der Gattung Thesium, d. i. T. alpinum, T. pyrenaicum, T. divaricatum, T. humifusum und T. humile kommt eine weitere Art, das neu beschriebene T. hispanicum hinzu. Diese ist nach den von D. W. Dresser im Gebirge Picos de Europa in Nordspanien gesammelten Pflanzen beschrieben. Es handelt sich um eine Art der Series Micrantha, in der sie den westlichsten Vertreter darstellt. Diese neue Art scheint mit der dinarisch-hellenisch-apenninischen Art T. parnassi verwandt zu sein. Sie unterscheidet sich von der letzteren besonders durch auffallend lngere und zahlreichere Auslufer und im juvenilem Stadium durch einen zusammengezogenen und sichtlich noch bltenrmeren Bltenstand. Ihre Frchte sind vorlufig nicht bekannt. Der Autor ist der Ansicht, dass es sich der morphologischen Verschiedenheit und der Lage des Areals nach zu schliessen um eine Art handelt, die nach einem stark disjunktiven Zerfall der Series Micrantha nach dem Unter-bis Ober-Miozn durch Isolation entstand. 
4179571| Aus der nrdlichen Mongolei wurden 5 neue Arten und ein Bastard der Gattung Potentilla beschrieben. Die neuen Taxa gehren zu den Sektionen Tanacetifoliae (P. acervata, P. chenteica), Multifidae (P. chalchorum, P. chionea) und Niveae (P. coriacea, P.  drymeja). Zwei Arten bergreifen in ihrer Verbreitung auch ins angrenzende Sdsibirien (eine dieser beiden Arten sogar bis in die Ostmandschurei). /// In the present paper several new species of the genus Potentilla are described: P. acervata sp. n. is related to P. viscosa Donn and P. tanacetifolia Willd. et Schlecht. and is distributed in northern Mongolia and in the territory between the Lake Baikal and Lake Hanka. P. chenteica sp. n. is morphologically close to P. acervata Sojk, and its occurrence is known only from the Mongolian mountain range Khentei. The Habitus of P. chalchorum sp. n. rather suggests that of P. conferta Bunge; the distribution area of P. chalchorum covers northern Mongolia and the central part of South Siberia. P. chionea sp. n. is a mountain species of hybridogeneous origin (P. crebridens Juz.  P. sericea L.); it was found in the environments of the Lake Khubsugul. P. coriacea sp. n. occupies a rather isolated position within the Niveae group, owing to the tough consistency of the leaflets, and at present is known from only one locality in northern Mongolia. The description of the hybrid P. arenosa (Turcz.) Juz.  P. crebridens Juz. (P.  drymeja hybr. n.) is also given here. In the supplement of the paper a finding of P.* orientalis Juz. in Mongolia is communicated and a new nomenclatorical combination P. bifurca L. subsp. orientalis (Juz.) Sojk is proposed. 
4180774| The position of the Juglandaceae within the Hamamelididae is critically analysed and discussed. The Juglandales should be given an intermediate position between Hamamelidanae and Rosanae (as Juglandanae) within the Rosidae. /// Verschiedene Merkmalsebenen bilden die Basis fr eine erneute kritische Analyse und Diskussion der Position der Juglandaceae im aktuellen System. Einerseits kann man die Familie aufgrund verschiedener isolierter Merkmale berhaupt keiner Sippe vorbehaltlos zuordnen; andererseits gibt es Merkmalsbereinstimmungen sowohl mit Hamamelididae als auch mit Rosidae. Die Auffassung, dass die 3 Sippen aus gemeinsamen Vorfahren hervorgegangen sind, die wir als Ur-Rosidae bezeichnen, weist den Juglandaceae eine intermedire Position zwischen den als berordnungen innerhalb der Unterklasse der Rosidae gewerteten Rosanae und Hamamelidanae zu (Abb. 2). 
4180134|The paper deals with dispersal and domestication of Chenopodium pumilio R. Br. in Czechoslovakia. Tabulated habitats point out the predominant dispersal of this species by various kinds of hemerochory, while autochory, chamaechory, endochory and epichory are other possible means of dispersal. Successfull domestication of Chenopodium pumilio is facilitated by abundance of viable fruits possessing an efficient dormancy mechanism that prevents them germinating in adverse seasons of the year. Naturalization of this species is further supported by prolonged viability of the fruits, and by favourable periodicity of dissemination.
4180043|Karyotypes of Tragopogon orientalis L. subsp. orientalis, T. orientalis L. subsp. leiocarpos (Sauter) Trnka, T. pratensis L., T. minor Miller, T. dubius Scop. subsp. dubius and T. dubius Scop. subsp. major (Jacq.) Vollmann were studied. The occurrence in Slovakia of T. pratensis was karyologically proved.
4179567| Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit dem Verlauf der oberen Wald- und Baumgrenze im Gebirge Hrub Jesenk (Hohes Gesenke), die hier von der Fichte gebildet wird. Es wurden die wichtigsten, die Grenze beeinflussenden Faktoren analysiert. Die Frage der Ursprnglichkeit der Bestnde an der Wald- und Baumgrenze wurde auf Grund von phytometrischen und morphologischen Beobachtungen festgestellt (Abnahme der Baumhhe, Lnge der Zuwchse, Beschdigung der Fichte durch Wind und Eis, Zahl, Lnge und Ausdauern der Nadeln, Verjngung der Fichte). Die Baumgrenze erwies sich fr eine Beurteilung der potentielen Wald-grenze als geeignet. /// In this work we discuss the position of the upper timber line and the upper forest line in Hrub Jesenk Mountains. For determining the fundamental conception, the definition for the alpine timber and forest line of Jenk et Lokvenc (1962) was used. These authors define forest by a minimal tree height of 5 m, minimal area of 100 m
4181263|A stochastic, spatially explicit simulation model for clonal growth is presented which relates growth patterns to the pattern of resource availability in the environment in both space and time. The effects of two simple growth rules were examined which affect the length of spacers depending on the local environmental conditions. According to one of the rules, shorter spacers were developed in resource-rich microsites than in resource-poor microsites (growth rule G-). If the other rule acted, the spacers were lengthened in resource-rich sites (growth rule G+). The neutral reference, G0, represented a plant of rigid growth form. A wide range of habitat types was used in the tests and characterized by an information theory model. It was found that the effectiveness of resource capture in most habitat types can be explained by spatio-temporal predictability of the environment, measured on the scale of spacer length. Shortening the spacers in resource-rich microsites, as hypothesized by "foraging theory", reduced the proportion of misplaced ramets. Lengthening the spacers never reduced this proportion. However, the degree of intraclonal competition was significantly reduced by both shortening and lengthening the spacers in response to site quality. There were certain types of environment where plastic modification of spacers had no effect on the efficiency of resource capture when compared to the reference random (non-environment-dependent) search pattern. Such habitats can be identified exactly on the basis of the information content of habitat pattern, measured here by spatio-temporal predictability. This study emphasizes that a wide range of environmental types should be taken into consideration when examining the adaptive nature of a certain growth pattern. Generalizing from experimental results gained in temporally constant environments may strongly bias our view on morphological adaptation.
4179913| Micarea umbrosa Vzda et V. Wirth sp. n., eine zweimal unabhngig in Europa entdeckte neue Art wird beschrieben. Sie ist nahe verwandt mit Biatora bauschiana Krb., die als Micarea bauschiana (Krb.) V. Wirth et Vzda neu kombiniert wird. Ein vorlufiger Bestimmungsschlssel und eine bersicht der besser bekannten europischen Micarea-Arten werden angefhrt. /// Micarea umbrosa Vzda et V. Wirth sp. n., independently found by both the authors in Europe is described. It is closely related to Micarea bauschiana (Krb.) V. Wirth et Vzda comb. n. (= Biatora bauschiana Krb.). A key (in latin) to the better known European species of the genus Micarea is presented; the following new combinations are necessary: Micarea bacidiella (Vain.) Vzda (= Lecidea denigrata var. bacidiella Vain.), M. hemipoliella (Nyl.) Vzda (= Lecidea hemipoliella Nyl.), M. leprosula (Th. Fr.) Vzda (= Blimbia milliaria * leprosula Th. Fr.), M. minuscula (Anzi) Vzda (= Bacidia minuscula Anzi), M. polioides (Nyl.) Vzda (= Lecidea polioides Nyl.), M. subleprosula (Vzda) Vzda (= Bacidia subleprosula Vzda) and M. sylvicola (Flot.) Vzda et V. Wirth (Lecidea sylvicola Flot.). 
4179782| An outline of the various approaches to the study of vegetation is given in historical perspective. Emphasis is laid on the Zrich-Montpellier method which has benefited from the rise of statistical methods in vegetation science. It is argued that the Zrich-Montpellier approach represents a scientifically sound, versatile and efficient classification method in vegetation science. 
4180261|Some characteristics of plant water dynamics of the Bohemian Karst, especially transpiration of some dominants and external factors influencing it and the ability to withstand extreme dry conditions are discussed, to find regular changes in plant water dynamics during succession.
4180771| Based on relevs and observations from the GDR, Czechoslovakia, Jugoslavia and USSR and on the literature, the spreading and phytosociology of Ailanthus altissima in the synanthropic area, connections between area-development, phytosociological pattern, and the hemerobic indicator value are elaborated. /// Verbreitung, Soziologie sowie Zusammenhnge zwischen Arealentwicklung, soziologischer Bindung und Hemerobiezeigerwert von Ailanthus altissima im synanthropen Areal werden auf der Grundlage von Vegetationsaufnahmen und Beobachtungen aus der DDR, SSR, Jugoslawien, der UdSSR sowie der Literatur dargestellt. Es zeigte sich, dass A. altissima in urbanen kosystemen auf Grund der dort herrschenden klimatischen und edaphischen Bedingungen bis in die temperate Florenzone vordringen kann. Dabei scheint zur spontanen Verbreitung des Baumes eine Jahresdurchschnittstemperatur von mindestens 8,5C erforderlich zu sein. Eine Rasterkartierung der Art in 2 Stdten der DDR (Halle, Leipzig) ergab eine Bindung an die Stadtzentren bzw. Industriegelnde. Die Amplitude der soziologischen Bindung erweitert sich von der nrdlichen Arealgrenze (temperate Florenzone) zum Zentrum der synanthropen Verbreitung submeridionale Florenzone) stetig; damit nimmt auch die Hemerobiestufenamplitude zu. 
4180484|Deschampsia austrobohemica from the South Bohemia is described. Besides the morphological characters the ecological data are given.
4180320| Additional C-14 dates to the pollen diagrams from the Zbudovsk blata marshes (see Rybnkov, Rybnek et Jankovsk 1975) are published. The dates support the previous hypothesis of a stratigraphic hiatus for the middle Holocene era. 
4180061|Three genera of lignicolous Hyphomycetes Septonema Corda, Hormiactella Saac. and Lylea Morgan-Jones are discussed. Illustrations and determination keys are provided. Five species of Septonema - S. fasciculare (Corda) Hughes, S. leptaleum (Ellis & Harkn.) Hughes, S. pinicola Hol.-Jech., S. secedens Corda and S. laricinum Hol.-Jech. - and two species of Hormiactella - H. fusca (Preuss) Sacc. and H. asetosa Hol.-Jech. - have been found in Czechoslovakia. A new species S. pseudobinum Hol.-Jech. is described from Romania. Septonema tetracoilum (Corda) Hughes is accommodated in the genus Lylea Morgan-Jones.
4181012|Various species of charophytes are able rapidly to colonise disturbed or cleaned shallow water bodies. This fact may be explained by the long-lasting viability of charophyte oospores, their easy dispersal and, probably, enhanced germination after passage through digestive tracts of waterfowl. Vegetative parts of Charophytes are sometimes resistant to herbicide treatment.
4179720|Two new closely related methods for the determination of the minimal area of phytocenoses are proposed. These methods check and complete each other and consist in determination of the rooted frequency of species in a set of successively enlarged sample plots and calculation of either (1) the mean floristic similarity or of (2) the corrected homogeneity-coefficient for each set of frequency plots of a certain size. The plotting of the above values against the plot size shows that both the mean floristic similarity and the homogeneity-coefficient stop rising at a certain size of the plot, which corresponds to the minimal area. Further enlargement of the frequency plots causes dropping or oscillation of these indices around a certain value.
4181466|The embryology of diploid and polyploid Nigritella species is described. The development of the adventitious embryos of the polyploids in relation to the sexual embryos of the diploids has been given special consideration. Partial sexuality in the apomictic N. nigra has been proven for the first time by chromosome counts in proembryos after pollination of a tetraploid plant with pollen from a diploid species.
4181269| Three clonal rhizomatous graminoids (Carex gracilis, C. vesicaria and Calamagrostis canescens), co-dominants of Central European marshlands, were examined for their response to waterlogging. A three-year growth study was carried with treatments where the water level was (a) below, (b) at, and (c) above the soil surface to assess the changes in allocation of plant biomass and modular structure. In waterlogged plants total biomass production was lower. The relatively greater shoot systems of waterlogged plants were characterized by the production of a greater number of tiller modules (of the order of 20%). Roots were the most supressed organs both in sedges and C. canescens. Higher leaf area ratios and specific leaf areas in stressed plants indicate the relative enlargement of photosynthetic structures where stems form a significant component of the shoot (LWR < 0.5 as in Calamagrostis) in unstressed conditions; above-ground biomass in stressed plants decreased. But where leaves form a major part of the shoot (LWR > 0.5 as in sedges) then above-ground biomass and rhizomes in stressed plants increased and leaf area index became higher. Variation of the mean module biomass in particular species was also associated with the LWR characteristics: modules of Carex gracilis and C. vesicaria were stable in biomass in all the treatments and reached 0.97  0.04 g and 0.44  0.03 g, respectively; in Calamagrostis the biomass of tillers varied. The number of modules increased in all species under waterlogging regardless of the architectural and reallocation differences between species. The increase in clonal modules is regarded as a general adaptive response to the stress of waterlogging. 
4181390| Up-to-date results of taxonomic and phytogeographic studies of Oenothera subsect. Oenothera in the eastern part of the Czech Republic (Moravia and Silesia) are presented. A new hybridogenous species, Oe. moravica Jehlk et Rostaski (= Oe. fallax  Oe. victorini), is described from S Moravia. Several taxa and hybrids are reported for the first time for the Czech Republic: Oe. victorini Gates et Catcheside (= Oe. rostanskii Jehlk), Oe. wienii Renner ex Rostaski, Oe. acutifolia  Oe. victorini. Other taxa are recorded from the eastern part of the Czech Republic for the first time: Oe. acutifolia Rostaski, Oe. hoelscheri Renner ex Rostaski, Oe. parviflora L., Oe. subterminalis Gates. The taxonomy of Oe. pycnocarpa Atkinson et Bartlett is discussed. A survey of species and hybrids of Oenothera subsect. Oenothera in the Czech Republic is added. 
4181421|Reed rhizomes from four habitats differing in soil nitrogen availability were collected and analyzed for carbohydrate content during one year. Rhizomes collected from sediments where nitrate was the prevailing form of available nitrogen accumulated predominantly starch. On the other hand, rhizomes buried in sediments rich in ammonium contained predominantly sucrose. These observations together with the fact that ammonium stimulates the activity of enzymes involved in degradation of starch suggest that ammonium affects starch storage by inducing conversion of starch into sucrose. During spring when sprouting takes place, the rates of sucrose or starch mobilization differed remarkably, the sucrose in rhizomes buried in ammonium-rich sediments being depleted much faster than the starch in rhizomes at ammonium-poor habitats. The consequent reduction of total carbohydrate content in rhizomes at ammonium-rich habitats places the plants in a vulnerable situation. Eutrophication and reed decline are postulated to be events causally related via toxicity of ammonium, of which considerable amounts are microbiologically released from decaying organic matter in reed beds under excessive nutrient supply.
4179990| Im vorliegenden Beitrag werden Resultate syntaxonomisch-synkologischer Forschungen des Carici remotae-Fraxinetum Koch ex Faber 1936 in den Tschechischen Lndern vorgelegt. Diese Assoziation ist an Gleybden quelliger Lagen gebunden, meistens in Hhen zwischen ca. (250) 300 und 600 m . NN. Im untersuchten Gebiet wurde die Assoziation in vier Subassoziationen gegliedert. Das Carici remotae-Fraxinetum caricetosum pendulae Tx. 1937 bestockt sehr wasserreiche bis versumpfte Nassgleye quelliger Hnge oder Hangsohlen mit schnell fliessendem Wasser. Das Carici rem.-Fraxinetum chrysosplenietosum Tx. 1937 ist an frische bis bergehend versumpfte Nassgleye, typische Gleye bzw. Anmoorgleye von Gelndesenkungen mit langsam fliessendem, quelligem Wasser gebunden. Das Carici rem.-Fraxinetum typicum Knapp (1944) 1948 kommt auf typischen Gleyen, seltener Nassgleyen an Bachufern vor. Das Carici rem.-Fraxinetum quercetosum Mikyka 1956 wurde auf frischen bis sehr wasserreichen Nassgleyen quelliger Stellen im Kontakt mit Eichen-Hainbuchenwldern festgestellt. /// This paper discusses the results of phytocoenological and ecological research into Carici remotae-Fraxinetum Koch ex Faber 1936 in the Czech Lands. This association represents a typical forest community of swampy sites and flushes; it occurs on gley soils of terrain depressions, slopes or riversides at an altitude (250) 300-600 m. The dominant species of the tree layer are Fraxinus excelsior or Alnus glutinosa; the herb layer is characterised by the occurrence of Carex remota, Veronica montana, Poa remota, locally also Dryopteris spinulosa, Rumex sanguineus, Circaea intermedia, Glyceria nemoralis or G. plicata (character and differential species of the association). In the area studied four subassociations can be distinguished: 1. Carici remotae-Fraxinetum caricetosum pendulae Tx. 1937 (differential species: Carex pendula, Equisetum telmateia) represents the most hygrophilous form of the association, confined to wet to water-logged nassgleys, with high and rapidly moving groundwater. The community occurs on slopes and at their foot. 2. Carici remotae-Fraxinetum chrysosplenietosum (differential species: Chrysosplenium alternifolium, Ch. oppositifolium, locally also Cardamine amara and Stellaria nemorum) is a typical community of fresh to temporarily water-logged nassgleys, anmoorgleys or typical gleys poor in nutrients. It is confined to terrain depressions with slowly running water. 3. Carici remotae-Fraxinetum typicum Knapp (1944) 1948 (lacking differential species) occurs on moist to wet typical gleys, or nassgleys on riversides with rapidly running water. 4. Carici remotae-Fraxinetum quercetosum Mikyka 1956 (differential species: Quercus petraea, Bromus benekenii, Galium silvaticum and Aconitum variegatum) was studied at altitudes from 250 to 260 m, on fresh to moist gley soils of slope flushes in contact with stands of the alliance Carpinion. The geographical distribution, comparison with analogous European forest communities as well as the economic importance of Carici remotae-Fraxinetum are briefly discussed. 
4179623| Four new taxa in the variable species Lotus corniculatus L. has been described: var. alandicus Chrtkov-ertov, var. norvegicus Chrtkov-ertov, var. fallax Chrtkov-ertov and var. posoniensis Chrtkov-ertov. 
4180393|The Glinus lotoides L. is a amphi-stomatal, amphitrichomic and xeromorphic plant. The stomata are anomocytic and their distribution is of potato type. The stellate hairs are present all over the plant. The configurations of epidermal cells in the leaves are straight and highly sinuous on upper and lower surfaces respectively. The ratio of stomatal indexes between the two surfaces of the leaves is uniform, hence may be used for taxonomic studies.
4180524|The present study provides a survey of the variability, distribution, ecology and other features of Taraxacum (sect. Spectabilia) nordstedtii Dahlst. in central Europe. Chromosome counts (hexaploid chromosome number - 2n = 48 - has been confirmed) of the species are also given. A lectotype has been chosen of the syntypes. It is pointed out that T. nordstedtii is likely to occur in Austria, Bavaria and Poland.
4180213| Im Gebiet der Stadt Brno, und zwar in Malomice und Obany (Rangiergterbahnhof) gefundene zwei wenig bekante Ruderalgesellschaften Chaenarrhino-Chenopodietum botryos Sukopp 1971 und Plantaginetum indicae Philippi 1971, wurden bearbeitet. Im beiderseitigen Vergleich entspricht die Struktur der angefhrten Znosen den von Sukopp (1971) aus West-Berlin und Philippi (1971) von Karlsruhe verffentlichten Assoziationsaufnahmen. /// The occurrence and phytocoenological characteristics of less known ruderal plant communities of the Chaenarrhino-Chenopodietum botryos Sukopp 1971 and the Plantaginetum indicae Philippi 1971, found in the area of the marshalling yards in Brno-Malomice and Obany, are given. In evaluating the two associations, references in literature were taken into consideration and their authors were consulted by post. The plant communities in the Federal Republic of Germany and in West-Berlin were found to be richer in species, but the pattern of species characterizing the physiognomy of the associations, and their ecological demands roughly correspond to those in Czechoslovakia. 
4179440| Im Artikel wird die ursprngliche Gattungsdiagnose der Gyalidea Lett. um die Merkmale der Pilzkomponente ergnzt. Die angenommenen verwandtschaftlichen Beziehungen der Gyalidea zu der Familie Asterothyriaceae werden diskutiert. Alle bisher festgestellten Arten mit bersichten der revidierten Proben werden kurz beschrieben. Neue Taxa und Kombinationen: Gyalidea dodgei spec. n., G. epiphylla spec. n., G. mayaguezensis spec. n., G. portoricensis spec. n., G. fritzei (Stein) comb. n., G. fritzei var. rivularis (Eitn.) comb. n., G. hyalinescens (Nyl.) comb. n., G. lecideopsis var. convarians (Nyl.) comb. n., G. lecideopsis var. stigmatoides (Nyl.) comb. n., G. mexicana (B. de Lesd.) comb. n. und G. subscutellaris (Vzda) comb. n. /// A l'origine le genre Gyalidea Lettau 1937 n'avait t dfini que comme un genre parallle au genre Gyalecta Ach, aux algues symbiotiques du type Cystococcus ( la place de Trentepohlia, spcifique des Gyalecta). Or, d'aprs les rsultats de nos recherches, la plupart des Gyalidea prsentent en outre, en ce qui concerne les fructifications du champignon, une structure extrmement concordante; en plus cette structure, dans ses trats principaux, est essentiellement diffrente de celle qu'on observe tant chez les Gyalecta typiques que chez les autres Gyalectaces s. str. Pour cette raison, on a ajout, dans ce travail,  la diagnose originelle les caractres du constituant fongique. Toutes les espces connues jusqu'ici (13 dont 4 nouvelles pour la Science) sont brivement dcrites et un aperu des chantillons examins est ajout. Les lieus de parent possibles des Gyalidea avec les Asterothyriaces sont discuts. 
4179836| Die Xerothermrasengesellschaften auf tertiren vulkanischen Gesteinen im Ostteil des Gebirges esk stedoho (Bhmisches Mittelgebirge) wurden analysiert und nach der Zrich-Montpellier-Methode klassifiziert. Im Einklang mit der bisherigen Entwicklung der phytoznologischen Nomenklatur-Regeln ist fr jedes Syntaxon der korrekte Name nach dem Priorittsprinzip festgelegt. Fnf Assoziationen gehren in das Alysso-Festucion pallentis Moravec 1967 und drei in das Festucion valesiacae Klika 1931 (Klasse Festuco-Brometea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943, Ordnung Festucetalia valesiacae Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943). Das Festuco valesiacae-Stipetum capillatae Sillinger 1931 wurde aus Bhmen noch nicht angegeben und fr das Asperulo glaucae-Festucetum duriusculae Preis in Klika 1939 und Melico transsilvanicae-Sempervivetum soboliferi Preis in Klika 1939, die bisher aus synthetischen Tabellen bekannt waren, sind die ersten Vegetationsaufnahmen angefhrt. Weiter werden publiziert: Alysso saxatilis-Festucetum duriusculae Klika ex eovsk 1949, Allio montani-Sedetum albi Klika 1939, Alysso montani-Potentilletum arenariae Preis 1939, Carici humilis-Festucetum sulcatae Klika 1951 und Erysimo crepidifolii-Festucetum valesiacae Klika 1933. Jede Assoziation ist mit Vegetationsaufnahmen und der Synonymik belegt und ihre charakteristische Artenkombination, Artenzusammensetzung und Struktur, ihre syngenetischen und topographischen Beziehungen werden beschrieben und ein Vergleich mit der Literatur ist durchgefhrt. /// Xerothermic herbaceous vegetation on volcanic rocks of the eastern part of the esk Stedoho Hills, belongs to the class Festuco-Brometea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943. The southern, southwestern and southeastern slopes bear plant communities of the order Festucetalia valesiacae Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943, within which two alliances and eight associations have been distinguished. The alliance Alysso-Festucion pallentis Moravec 1967 is represented by species-rich petricolous communities growing in shallow A - C soils developed on ledges and in crevices formed by weathering or disintegration of the parent rock, or spread over very steep slopes affected by heavy soil erosion. Plant communities of this alliance belong to the following five associations: 1. Alysso saxatilis-Festucetum duriusculae Klika ex eovsk 1949 (community of steep rock faces in warm regions and along the river valleys); 2. Asperulo glaucae-Festucetum duriusculae Preis in Klika 1939 (open community covering rock ledges and plateaux of basalt hills); 3. Allio montani-Sedetum albi Klika 1939 (initial petricolous community preparing suitable conditions for further succession of more advanced communities of the alliance Alysso-Festucion pallentis and Festucion valesiacae); 4. Melico transsilvanicae-Sempervivetum soboliferi Preis in Klika 1939 (community of grasses, succulent plants, ferns, and therophytes inhabiting continuous rock faces and plateaux); 5. Alysso montani-Potentilletum arenariae Preis 1939 (community developed in a typical form over mild slopes of basic rocks; wide rock and slightly inclined ledges). The alliance Festucion valesiacae Klika 1931 is represented by species-rich herbaceous communities of rocky slopes, distributed mainly over nutrient-rich and more developed A - C soil. Plant communities of this alliance belong to three associations: 1. Carici humilis-Festucetum sulcatae Klika 1951 (communities spread over slopes with soil of variable depth and without dramatic fluctuations of soil moisture in the course of the growing season); 2. Erysimo crepidifolii-Festucetum valesiacae Klika 1933 (open community inhabiting rocky biotopes with shallow but continuous A - C soil); 3. Festuco valesiacae-Stipetum capillatae Sillinger 1931 (community of basic rocks or on loess deep soils; with regard to the succession it belongs to the most advanced communities of the Festucion valesiacae in the esk Stedoho Hills). In agreement with the current development of the phytocoenological nomenclature, the correct name for each syntaxon according to the priority rule is established. All associations are documented by phytocoenological relevs, and relevant synonyms; and their brief characteristic, syngenetical and topographical relationships, and comparison with published data are given. All associations have also been completed by ecological features which will be described in the second part of this paper. 
4181004|The paper brings a description of some macrophytic plant communities from classes Lemnetea and Potametea occurring in oxbows, backwaters and canals of the internal Danube delta in Czechoslovakia.
4179926| Ausgehend von den gemeinsamen Merkmalen der Calystegietalia sepium lsst eine Analyse der bisher aus Mitteleuropa beschriebenen Vegetationseinheiten 12 Assoziationen als gesichert erscheinen. Neben der coenologischen Zusammensetzung (vgl. Tab. 1-4) werden die strukturellen Merkmale, die standrtlichen Bedingungen, die geographische Verbreitung sowie diagnostisch wichtige Kontaktgesellschaften behandelt (vgl. Tab. 5). Neu abgegrenzt werden ausser einigen Subassoziationen die Assoziationen Fallopio-Cucubaletum und Aristolochio-Cucubaletum. Innerhalb der Calystegietalia lassen sich die besttigten Assoziationen den Verbnden Archangelicion litoralis Tx. (50) 62, Senecion fluviatilis Tx. (47) 50 und Humulo-Fallopion dumetori Pass. 65 zuordnen. Abschliessend wird die besondere landeskulturelle Bedeutung der Ufersaumgesell-schaften behandelt. /// Some notes concerning the general coenology, structure, habitat, and syngeography of the Calystegietalia are given. Associations known up to the present in the Central Europe are described, emphasizing the specific species combination, syntaxonomic subdivision, habitat characteristics, contact communities, and distribution within the region. The following units have been distinguished (cf. Tabs. 1-5 Appendices 1-4): 1. Soncho-Archangelicetum Tx. 37, 2. Cuscuto-Calystegietum Tx. 47, 3. Asperulo-Calystegietum (Steffen 31) Tx. 50, 4. Achilleo-Cuscutetum (Hueck 30) Tx. 50, 5. Impatienti-Solidaginetum Moor 58, 6. Archangelico-Calystegietum Pass. 64, 7. Althaeo-Calystegietum Beeftink 65, 8. Urtico-Calystegietum (Seib. 62) Grs et Mll. 69, 9. Epilobio-Calystegietum Hilbig, Heinr. et Niem. 72, 10. Sonchetum palustris (Vlieg. et van Zinderen Bakker) van Donselaar 61, 11. Solanum-Calystegia-comm. 12. Cuscuta-Humulus-comm. 13. Fallopio-Cucubaletum Pass, ass. nova, 14. Aristolochio-Cucubaletum Pass. ass. nova. Discussion of the affinities of different associations resulted in the following conclusion: those associations which occur on moist sites in the northern part of Central Europe, belong to Archangelicion litoralis Tx. (50) 62 with the species Phragmites australis, Eupatorium cannabinum, Archangelica archangelica; whereas those with Phalaris arundinacea, Senecio fluviatilis, Aegopodium podagraria, Alliaria petiolata belong to Senecion fluviatilis Tx. 50, and those which are bound to the riversides moist in the summer with Fallopia dumetorum, Humulus lupulus, Cucubalus baccifer belong to Humulo-Fallopion Pass. 65. In the last chapter the importance of the Calystegietalia concerning landscape, its management and protection is emphasized. 
4180846|Examination of type specimens of the monotypic genera, Grahamia (G. bracteata) and Talinaria (T. palmeri) together with detailed palynological, morphological and seed anatomical evidence have shown that these two species are very similar. These two genera are subsequently grouped into one genus, Grahamia. A new combination, G. palmeri is now proposed.
4179737|The species of three genera - Sporoschisma Berk. et Br., Sporoschismopsis Hol.-Jech. et Hennebert and Catenularia Grove are treated in this paper from Czechoslovakia: Sporoschisma juvenile Boudier, S. mirabile Berk. et Br., Sporoschismopsis moravica Hol.-Jech. et Hennebert and Catenularia cuneiformis (Richon) Mason. The studied fungi produce the conidia in basipetal succession, endogenously or subendogenously, quite internally in large phialides or only inside open swollen collarettes.
4180704|The vegetation gradient analysis along two complex gradients (height above low water level and soil-salinity) has been carried out, and a floristic classification of communities drawn up following the principles of the Braun-Blanquet approach. A new class Glycyrrhizetea glabrae has been established. The remaining communities are classified under Molinio-Arrhenatheretea, Phragmitetea, Bolboschoenetea maritimi and Crypsietea aculeatae. General regularities of variations in vegetation along the flood-plain longitudinal profile are discussed, phytocoenological tables describing the syntaxa established are given.
4181251|Chromosome numbers were determined in Geum montanum L.: only hexaploids (2n=42) were found on 44 localities throughout most of the distribution area. Tetraploid level (2n=28) previously reported in this species from the Carpathians was not confirmed.
4180582|A total of 34 plant associations are reported from the Kaldidalur area, WSW Iceland, grouped in 15 alliances and 11 orders; 9 associations are described as new ones.
4179968| Cytological and morphological studies have been carried out on populations of Campanula rotundifolia L., C. Tatrae Borbs (group Vulgares) and C. bohemica Hruby (group Scheuchzerianae) from a wide range of habitats in Czechoslovakia. Chromosome counts have been made on material from 185 populations, revealing the presence of two ploidy levels within the limits of the species C. rotundifolia L.: diploid (2n = 34) and tetraploid (2n = 68). The other two species are tetraploid, with 2n = 68. C. Tatrae Borbs, comprising monticolous derivatives of C. rotundifolia L., is subdivided into three subspecies [subsp. Tatrae, subsp. mentiens (Witas.) Kovanda and subsp. sudetica (Hruby) Kovanda], each representing a major regional facies of the species. Within C. bohemica Hruby, two vicarious subspecies are recognized which can be equated with subsp. bohemica and subsp. gelida Kovanda. Ecology, geographical distribution, variation and relationships of all these taxa have been reconsidered. Descriptions and distribution maps are provided. 
4179575| Aus dem Andesitgebiet des Kremnitzer Gebirges (Mittelslowakei) wird eine vegetations-kundliche Analyse der wichtigsten Weidegesellschaften dargelegt. Die Talweiden stellt die Assoziation Lolio-Cynosuretum Tx. 1933 dar. Sie ist nur wenig verbreitet u. zw. in der Subassoziation typicum. Eine hnliche Gesellschaft wird in der Form einer Sammeltabelle aus dem Tal des Slan-Flusses angefhrt. Am meisten sind die Bergweiden verbreitet, die durch die Assoziation Anthoxantho-Agrostietum Sillinger 1933 em. Jurko 1969 reprsentiert werden. Die fr niedrigere Lagen charakteristische Subassoziation A.-A. typicum kann in zwei Varianten gegliedert werden, eine oligotrophe mit Ononis spinosa und eine eutrophe (gemht und beweidet) mit Rhinanthus minor. Die Subassoziation A.-A. nardetosum subass. nova ist in Hhen von ber 700 m anzutreffen. Die bisher verffentlichten Tabellen dieses Typs wurden einer syntaxonomischen Revision unterzogen und im Rahmen dieser Subassoziation mehrere Varianten herausgestellt. Die selteneren Halbtrockenrasen im Kremnitzer Gebirge werden provisorisch nur als Brachypodium pinnatum-Gesellschaft dargestellt. In zwei Aufnahmen aus diesem Gebiet wird das Nardetum montanum Sillinger 1933 dokumentiert. Endlich wird ganz kurz eine wirtschaftliche Bewertung dieser Gesellschaften angefhrt. /// Next to forest, pasture communities constitute the dominant vegetation of the Kremnica Mountains in central Slovakia. They occur principally on mineral-rich andesite soils. In these narrow valleys conditions for extension of the alluvial grasslands represented by the association Lolio-Cynosuretum Txen 1937 are absent. From the point of view of land utilisation they are of high quality but are less extensively farmed than the other pastures of this region. Transitional syntaxa to mountain pastures have not been observed. Reference is made to a similar community from the alluvium of the Slan river as a variant of Poa trivialis. Most of the pastures in the study area, which overlies different geological bedrocks, belong to the regional association Anthoxantho-Agrostietum Sillinger 1933 em. Jurko 1969. On lowlying sites a sub-association A.-A. typicum Jurko 1969 occurs with two variants. The oligotrophic variant with Ononis spinosa is more xero- and thermophilous, while the variant with Rhinanthus minor is widespread in medium and higher situations where it often merges into sub-associations with Nardus stricta. The sub-association A.-A. nardetosum subass. nova spreads on sites up to 700 m above sea level. Formerly, similar communities have been described from Slovakia under different names. After syntaxonomical re-evaluation the author is of the opinion that they can be included in this sub-association. The differential species indicate a connecting link to the alliance Nardo-Agrostidion. Within this sub-association several new variants can be distinguished. These are, variant with Genista pilosa (Dostl 1933); variant with Viola tricolor ssp. subalpina (Sillinger 1933, Svoboda 1939); variant with Cytisus procumbens (Mikyka 1932); variant with Succisa pratensis (Mth et Kovcs 1960); and variant with Filipendula vulgaris (Fajmonov 1963). Mesoxerophytic pastures occur less frequently and only as small areas on both calcareous and andesitic soils. Owing to the lack of phytocoenological data from Slovakia it has not been possible to determine these precisely and they are regarded provisionally as the Brachypodium pinnatum-community. They are especially rich in herbs and are distinguished from the other pasture communities by the absence of transitional types. Grasslands belonging to the association Nardetum montanum Sillinger 1933 are present in 2 relevs. They occur only in the highest localities of the region. The economic importance of the different types has been indicated on the basis of the fodder values of the individual communities. 
4179579|A survey is given of three natural groups of the subsection Heterophylla (Witas.) Fed. of the genus Campanula L. Within the Saxicolae four taxa of higher rank have been revealed: C. xylocarpa Kovanda (2n = 34), C. gentilis Kovanda (2n = 34), C. moravica (Spitzner) Kovanda subsp. moravica (2n = 68), and C. moravica subsp. xylorrhiza (O. Schwarz) Kovanda (2n = 102). Both Alpicolae and Lanceolatae are represented by a single species: the first by C. cochleariifolia Lam. (2n = 34), the latter by C. serrata (Kit. ap. Schult.) Hendrych (2n = 34). Cytology, ecology and geographical distribution of all these taxa have been reviewed, and relationships to the other members of the complex discussed. Infraspecific variation within each species has also been examined.
4181324| Pollen spectra of three samples of dust taken from four medieval books are reported. The books, printed A.D. 1500-1530, were preserved in the Franciscan monastery of Kada (NW Bohemia) up to c. 30 years ago, and thereafter in Prague. Sample 1 contains rather few pollen grains, most of which are derived from cereals, probably from pastries or bread. Sample 2 is rich in pollen, containing abundant tree pollen, mainly Quercus and Fagus, indicating that the dust indeed comes from NW Bohemia rather than from Prague. Its overall pollen spectrum also corresponds well to published data from medieval forests and the cultural landscape of the region. The spectrum of sample 3 (two books) is rather rich in pollen, mainly of synanthropic plants. The remarkably high pollen numbers of cultivated plants (Sambucus nigra, Lathyrus type and Symphytum) are still unexplained. 
4181513|Eutrophication is often considered to play an important role in reed decline. We detected to use a chronological comparison of the two phenomena as a useful aid in the search for a possible causal relationship between them. Eutrophication is usually documented by changes in phosphorus and nitrogen content in water but there are no such data older than 10 years available for most of the lakes in which reed decline has been observed. The entire historical record of eutrophication has been recently reconstructed from micropaleontological analysis of indicatory diatom frustules, deposited in sediments in three lakes in south Germany. In these lakes, reed decline was well documented by archival aerial photographs. The comparison of reed decline history with the reconstructed changes in water quality confirmed the coincidence of reed decline and eutrophication. Consequently, eutrophication cannot be excluded as a potential cause of reed decline in any lake in this study.
4179491| Die bisherigen Erkenntnisse ber die Variabilitt der Schotenlnge bei den untersuchten Taxa des Komplexes Arabis hirsuta (L.) Scop. (Novotn 1965) werden unter Bercksichtigung mancher Umweltfaktoren erweitert. Als Material dienten Pflanzen aus den Kultivierungsversuchen, in welchen der verschiedene Auspflanzungsabstand als massgebender Faktor wirkt. Die Methodik wurde dem Ziel, die taxonomische Bedeutung der Schotenlnge zu erfassen, angepasst. Durch die Wahl des geeigneten Materials und die Anpassung der Methodik wurde erreicht, dass der Unterschied der usseren und inneren Faktoren deutlich hervortritt. Wenn auch die Kultivierungsbedingungen die reale Merkmalsvariabilitt abgendert haben, blieben die relativen Verhltnisse und Beziehungen zwischen den Taxa gleich. Die Beziehungen zwischen den Taxa sind unterschiedlich. Die Ausntzung dieser Unterschiede beruht in der Trennung der Taxa Arabis sessilifolia und A. sagittata. Der taxonomische Wert der Schotenlnge hat seine Begrndung in der genetischen Differenzierung der untersuchten Taxa des Komplexes. Die Durchprfung des Charakters und des Umfanges der Variabilitt zeigt die verschiedene Empfindlichkeit der einzelnen Taxa auf. /// In the present paper the author has attempted to demonstrate the taxonomic value of the pod length. The methods were so arranged that the different characters of the individual taxa investigated under certain cultivation conditions could be ascertained. The variability is clearer if a larger number of plants and therefore a smaller number of pod lengths from each plant are taken into consideration. Since there were significant differences between the results of five and of three measurements respectively, objections could be raised if the number of measurements was reduced to three. The variability in individual experimental variants was investigated by means of variation polygons which were mutually compared. Graphical representation of the variability of characters makes it possible to evaluate the importance of a character for distinguishing samples on the basis of relative ratios. In general, a denser stand of plants diminished the pod length; it appeared in the graphical representation as a shift of the polygons to the left. During two vegetation periods the external conditions did not substantially alter the relative ratios of Arabis planisiliqua. Parallel with the graphical representation biometrical evaluation was carried out. For the solution of subsidiary problems - not feasible by graphical representation - the t-test and F-test were applied. These tests contributed to knowledge of the character and extent of variability of the pod lengths so that the real differences were ascertained correctly. The taxonomical value of the pod length was proved in the genetic differentiation of the investigated taxa of the Arabis hirsuta (L.) Scop. complex. The shortest pods are in the species A. sessilifolia, the longest in A. sagittata; A. planisiliqua occupies an intermediary position. In pod length and its variability A. planisiliqua and A. sagittata are much more similar than are both taxa to A. sessilifolia. In spite of the fact that this character is strongly influenced by environmental factors, under certain conditions it may be used for taxonomical purposes. It has been found that the investigated taxa are not equally sensitive to the distance of individual plants. This influence diminishes from A. planisiliqua through A. sessilifolia to A. sagittata. - The final result of the investigation of the significance of a character is to ascertain the taxonomical value of the pod length. The best use of this character is in distinguishing the taxa A. sessilifolia and A. sagittata. The supposition that pod length represents a valuable character for the analysis of populations is well founded. The usefulness of this character is especially apparent in the frequent populations in which both A. sessilifolia and A. sagittata occur. The significance of the difference in the pod length of these two taxa appears only if a comparison of the other investigated characters is made. 
4181399|The original definition of the guild is reiterated and the concept discussed and placed in the context of related concepts such as resources and competition. From this conceptual framework the current use of guilds in studies of plant community ecology is evaluated. We discuss the criteria with which species are assigned to guilds, the association of guilds with specific communities, the resource classes on which guilds are based, and the competitive relationships between species of a guild. We conclude that the guild is presently applied in a much more loose way as compared to its original definition. In particular, the a priori assignment of species to guilds on the basis of the use of well-defined resource classes is often relaxed. This obscures the insight that the guild structure may provide in the role of resource partitioning and competition in structuring the community. A more strict use of the concept is advocated.
4181029| Chromosome numbers are presented in the following 16 Phanerogams of the Czechoslovak flora: Amaranthus blitoides S. Watson, Anthoxanthum alpinum . Lve et D. Lve, Aster amellus L., Bistorta major S. F. Gray, Cardamine hirsuta L., Cardamine parviflora L., Chrysosplenium oppositifolium L., Dactylis glomerata L. subsp. aschersoniana (Graebner) Thell., Elatine hydropiper L. s. l., Geranium phaeum L., Hieracium lachenalii C. C. Gmel., Jovibarba sobolifera (Sims) Opiz, Kickxia spuria (L.) Dum., Persicaria hydropiper (L.) Spach, Sedum alpestre Vill. and Tephroseris crispa (Jacq.) Schur. Six of them are reported for the first time from Czechoslovakia, the others are mostly first reports of chromosome numbers from the Bohemian and Moravian regions. A new diploid number of 2n = 36 is given in Elatine hydropiper L. s. l. All results are compared with as yet published data. 
4181184|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat and Moravec 1993), the present work collects the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, BARKMAN et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1990. The list comprises 36 names of syntaxa; 2 names are given in addition to the "Index 1987" (Theurillat and Moravec 1990).
4180136| Die Arbeit behandelt die Taxonomie, kologie und Chorologie der Arten der Gattung Oenothera L. in der Tschechoslowakei. Nach der Einleitung folgt die kologische Charakteristik, in der die Aufmerksamkeit der kologie und Karpobiologie gewidment wird. Ferner wird der Schlssel zur Bestimmung der tschechoslowakischen Arten der Gattung Oenothera angefhrt, dem eine Aufzhlung der Arten mit taxonomischen, kologischen und chorologischen Anmerkungen folgt. Endlich wird die Verbreitung in der Tschechoslowakei mit beigelegten Karten angefhrt. Insgesamt sind aus der Tschechoslowakei 26 Arten und Hybriden bekannt. Neu wurden folgende Taxa beschrieben: Oenothera rubricaulis Kleb. var. dentifolia Jehlk et Rostaski, Oe. chicaginensis De Vries ex Renner var. minutiflora Rostaski et Jehlk, Oe. x slovaca Jehlk et Rostaski, Oe. issleri Renner ex Rostaski var. silesiacoides Rostaski et Jehlk. /// The paper gives the results of a revision of the Czechoslovak species of the genus Oenothera L., based on field studies, cultivation and study of herbarium material from 37 herbaria, Czechoslovak and foreign. In all, 26 species and hybrids have been found to occur in Czechoslovakia: Subgenus Kneiffia (Spach) Munz: Oe. tetragona Roth. Subgenus Megapterium (Spach) Munz: Oe. missouriensis Sims. Subgenus Raimannia (Rose) Munz: Oe. stricta Ledeb. ex Link. Subgenus Oenothera: I. sect. Oenothera: Oe. biennis L., Oe. fallax Renner em. Rostaski, Oe. punctulata Rostaski et Gutte, Oe. hoelscheri Renner ex Rostaski, Oe. suaveolens Desf. ex Pers., Oe. oehlkersi Kappus, Oe. drawerti Renner ex Rostaski, Oe. rubricaulis Kleb., Oe. acutifolia Rostaski, Oe. chicaginensis De Vries ex Renner, Oe. erythrosepala Borbs; II. sect. Strigosae Rostaski: Oe. salicifolia Desf. ex G. Don, Oe.  slovaca Jehlk et Rostaski, Oe. renneri H. Scholz; III. sect. Parviflorae Rostaski: Oe. parviflora L., Oe. biennis  parviflora, Oe. silesiaca Renner, Oe. ammophila Focke, Oe. albipercurva Renner ex Hudziok, Oe. rubricaulis  ammophila, Oe. syrticola Bartl., Oe. issleri Renner ex Rostaski, Oe. turoviensis Rostaski. The following taxa are described as new: Oenothera rubricaulis Kleb. var. dentifolia Jehlk et Rostaski, Oe. chicaginensis De Vries ex Renner var. minutiflora Rostaski et Jehlk, Oe.  slovaca Jehlk et Rostaski, Oe. issleri Renner ex Rostaski var. silesiacoides Rostaski et Jehlk. 
4180138|A new species (tetraploid with 2n = 24) of the group Luzula compestris-multiflora is described from Czechoslovakia. The species also occurs in Hungary and Germany.
4181062| Seligeria oelandica is reported as new to Central Europe, where it occurs in Slovensk raj in the West Carpathians, Czechoslovakia. The species is described and illustrated from material collected in this locality. A map of its European distribution is given, together with a full list of specimens examined. 
4180736| Distributions of individual species and plant communities growing on the bottom of a medium-sized,
4180243|A simple simulation model of the secondary shrub succession has been elaborated on the grounds of primary field data from abandoned fields of different ages in the area of Bohemian Karst. The model describes vegetational dynamics using adapted Volterra-Lotka equations for competing species. Carrying capacities and growth rates are expressed as a function of the depth of the soil.
4181396|The exchange of ideas and information between vegetation ecology and pollination ecology is relatively restricted, yet both fields have devised methods to detect the structure of species assemblages and communities. To promote the exchange of ideas between fields I compare approaches, concepts, and problems faced by researchers working in each area. Both vegetative and reproductive interactions may generate assemblage structure through ecological sorting or through character displacement. Vegetative interactions may lead to assemblage organization more often by ecological sorting and reproductive interactions more often by character displacement. Vegetative interactions generally operate over shorter temporal and smaller spatial scales than reproductive interactions and may be affected more strongly by temporal and spatial heterogeneity in abiotic and biotic environments. These differences affect how the concept of ecological niche should be applied to plants. The Hutchinsonian concept of niche needs to be significantly modified before it can be usefully applied to plants. Null models are a valuable tool for investigating both vegetative and reproductive structuring of plant assemblages; however, the procedures followed in the application of null models need further refinement. The appropriate formulation of the null model may require information that is unavailable, hence multiple models may have to be employed to "bracket" conclusions. The literature on pollination community ecology demonstrates that difficult decisions must be made about the likely processes that have generated the structure being tested, the relevant definition of sympatry, how guild membership should be defined and employed, and what constraints should be incorporated into the null model to impose realism. Differences in these decisions will affect the outcome of the analysis. While top-down studies of pattern have numerous advantages, they usually cannot identify the process(es) that have generated the patterns. Bottom-up, experimental studies can be useful for identifying the processes, but they can rarely be used to assess the structure of an entire natural assemblage. The optimal approach to studying assemblage structure is to detect patterns with top-down analysis and use experiments to identify the processes that generate and maintain the patterns.
4181102|Seventeen natural Bulgarian populations of the species of the genus Carex sect. Digitatae were studied morphologically and karyologically. Stepwise discriminant analysis was used as a multivariate test for the separation of groups of populations from different taxa and to find a subset of characters contributing most for this separation. The following taxa were found in Bulgaria: C. humilis Leysser var. humilis; C. humilis var. longifolia Stoeva et Popova, var. n.; C. digitata L.; C. ornithopoda Willd. subsp. bulgarica (Vel.) Stoeva et Popova, comb. n. Aneuploid series of some chromosome numbers were found in C. digitata - 2n=48, 50, 52, 54, 56 and in C. ornithopoda subsp. bulgarica - 2n=52, 53, 54, 56. C. humilis has 2n=36 and a much more heterogeneous karyotype than that of the above taxa. The values of the Euclidean distance between the populations vary within similar limits in both species C. humilis and C. digitata; this is not in accordance with the karyological results. The within and between population morphological variations were compared in each species. The first dominates in overall variation, which is probably connected with the very large populations and their mosaic space structure.
4180907| Investigation of halophyte communities of Western substeppe ilmens of the Volga delta and their classification by the Braun-Blanquet method enabled us to distinguish 5 associations in this area: Suaedo salsae-Halocnemetum, Limonietum suffruticosi, Kalidietum foliati, Suaedo-Frankenietum, Suaedo-Petrosimonietum. These associations were united in the new alliance Climacoptero-Suaedion previously included in the order Halostachyetalia opa 1939, the class Puccinellio-Salicornietea opa 1939. 
4180643| A new species of Oenothera was described which is related to Oe. nissensis Rostaski. It has been found on three synanthropic localities in Moravian Silesia uptill now. 
4180171| In den Gebirgen Povask Inovec und Mal Karpaty konnten wir das Vorkommen von Artenkombinationen und charakteristischen Standorten der Pionierschuttgesellschaften aus der Klasse Thlaspietea rotundifolii Br.-Bl. et al. 1948 feststellen Zu ihnen gehrt das Galeopsietum angustifoliae (Libbert 1938) Bkker 1942 und die Epilobium dodonaei-Seseli osseum-Gesellschaft aus dem Verband Stipion calamagrostis. In der Arbeit wurde erhhte Aufmerksamkeit der synmorphologischen und synkologischen Charakteristik und syntaxonomischen Einordnung gewidment. /// Relatively widely distributed plant communities of alluvial gravel riverbanks as well as screes in high elevations have been quite well documented so far on the territory of Slovakia. On the contrary there are almost no data on these communities from colline to submontane belts. During vegetation research in the Povask Inovec Mts. and the Mal Karpaty Mts. (Western Slovakia) the authors located pioneer scree plant communities of the class Thlaspietea rotundifolii, namely the association Galeopsietum angustifoliae and Epilobium dodonaei-Seseli osseum-community. Galeopsietum angustifoliae forms unistrate sparse small-areal phytocoenoses dominated by Galeopsis angustifolia and/or Chaenarrhinum minus. Therophytes prevail in phytocoenose structure. Floristical variability and the low homotoneity (0,239 sensu eka 1966) as well al low mean coverage value 27,1% can be considered important synmorphological characteristics of Galeopsietum angustifoliae. The phytocoenoses of this community are growing at the basal parts of furrows on dolomite rocks, in deluvial screes, at the bottoms, slopes and various gravel deponia in quarries. The substratum can be characterized as raw protosoils with a low content of clay and loam and a high content of skeleton. Owing to precipitation the fine particles are flushed to the lower situated soil layers. The distinguished layer formed in this way is capable of holding these elements back. By enriching soil by nitrogen compounds and humus as well, suitable conditions for the ecession of nitrophilous plants are formed. These species are regarded as differential species of the subassociation Galeopsietum angustifoliae polygonetosum avicularis. In the dolomite quarries on the southern slopes of the Mal Karpaty Mts. (near Loonec and Doln Lopaov) the Epilobium dodonaei-Seseli osseum-community occurs. It requiers deeper and loose soils as well as higher amounts of fine soil ingredients. 
4179499| In der vorliegenden Arbeit wurden mesophile und subxerophile Waldgesellschaften des Mittelbhmischen Hgellandes und der Elbeebene studiert. Es wurden hier folgende Syntaxa festgestellt und analysiert: das Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957 mit drei Subassoziationen (typicum, primuletosum veris, luzuletosum albidae), das Galio rotundifolii-Quercetum ass. nova prov., das Tilio-Quercetum sensu Passarge 1962 mit zwei Ausbildungsformen (typische, Ausb. von Potentilla alba) und das Potentillo albae-Quercetum Libbert 1933 mit zwei Ausbildungsformen (typische, Ausb. von Festuca heterophylla). Diese Gesellschaften wurden vom phytoznotischen und kologischen Standpunkt aus analysiert; bei jeder Gesellschaft wird auch ihre Verbreitung und wirtschaftliche Wertung behandelt. Die floristische hnlichkeit und Homogenitt einzelner Syntaxa wurde mathematisch berprft. /// In the territory of Central Bohemia (cf. Fig. 1) the following associations of mesophilous and subxerophilous forests were described: 1. The Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957 (divided into three subassociations: typicum, primuletosum veris and luzuletosum) is the most frequent community of the Carpinion alliance in Central Bohemia. Its floristic composition can be seen from table 1. This association represents an unit ecologically rather heterogenous; it occurs on mesotrophic or eutrophic soils at lower altitudes of our territory (at about (190-400 m. above sea-level) in flat areas as well as on steep slopes. The results of the physical and chemical soil analyses can be seen from tables 2-10. The Galio-Carpinetum represents a climax community of the plain and hill belt. The Galio-Carpinetum typicum Oberd. 1957 exhibits no differentiating species and represents the optimum stage of the association. It occurs mostly on loam sandy soils of the types Braunerde, Parabraunerde or Pseudogley-Parabraunerde as understood by Mckenhausen (1959). The Galio-Carpinetum primuletosum veris (Klika 1932) Z. Neuh. 1964 is bound only to soils of calcareous substrata. The variant with Actaea spicata represents a moister type of this subassociation; it occurs on steep, shady and fairly moist foots of slopes. The typical variant can be seen as an optimum stage of the Galio-Carpinetum primuletosum veris. The variant with Cornus mas, on the contrary, occurs in warmer and drier regions. The Galio-Carpinetum luzuletosum Oberd. 1957 is characterised by relatively poor soils (Parabraunerde type), often with traces of gleization. The geographical distribution of the Galio-Carpinetum can be seen from the map of localities of vegetation plots (Fig. 1). 2. The Galio rotundifolii-Quercetum ass. nova prov. is characterised by the following character and differentiating species: Galium rotundifolium, Senecio* fuchsii and Luzula pilosa (cf. table 11). It can be considered as a local association of the Carpinion alliance, although its affinity to the Carpinion alliance and the Fagetalia order is only weak. This association was classified under the alliance named on the basis of its higher mathematical similarity to the communities of the Carpinion than to those of the Quercion pubescentipetraeae. The Galio rotundifolii-Quercetum occurs on heavy soils, affected by suspended ground water, in flat areas as well as on mild slopes. The distribution of this association can be seen from Fig. 1. 3. The Tilio-Quercetum Passarge 1962 (table 14) can be characterised by the following ecologically heterogenous group of species: Poa* angustifolia, Carex pallescens, Holcus mollis, Hypericum montanum, Carex pilulifera, C. montana. It shows only a weak affinity to the Carpinion alliance and the Fagetalia order. Two lower units (a typical form and a form with Potentilla alba) were analysed. The Tilio-Quercetum occurs mostly on sandy terraces; it is to be found on heavy loess loam soils too. The soils (of oligotrophic Braunerde or Parabraunerde types) are relatively poorer in nutrients (cf. table 15-16). The Tilio-Quercetum is relatively rare in our territory; it was found in the neighbourhood of Praha and in the Valley of the Middle Labe (cf. Fig. 1). 4. The Potentillo albae-Quercetum Libbert 1933 (cf. table 17) of the Quercion pubescenti-petraeae alliance is, in our territory, represented by two lower units. The more acidophilous typical form is poorer in species. The form with Festuca heterophylla can be seen as a transition to the Galio-Carpinetum primuletosum veris. This form was classified under the Potentillo-Quercetum on the basis of mathematical comparison. The Potentillo-Quercetum appears on heavy, temporarily very dry and cemented soils in flat areas, dry southern slopes or mild depressions. According to the classification of Kubina (1953) and Mckenhausen (1959) its soils belong to the types of Pseudogley-Parabraunerde, vergleyte Parabraunerde, braune Rendsina or Rendsina with traces of gleization (cf. table 18). The particular associations analysed in our territory were mutually compared by a mathematical method. All associations exhibit a relatively high inner homogenity (45-66%). The mean floristic similarity between the analysed associations can be seen in the diagram on page 267. The ecological variability of the particular associations and their lower units is not equal. The variability of the
4181006|This paper presents the results of a comparative phytocoenological examination of the macrophyte (aquatic and littoral) fishpond vegetation in relation to basic changes of this vegetation after anthropogenic impact (intense fertilizer application, large scale-duck farming, fishpond amelioration) in the period of 35 years (1941-1949; 1961-1976). The results are concentrated in tables (1, 2) and in short conclusions.
4179852| Gegenstand dieses Beitrages ist die syntaxonomisch-synkologische Charakteristik des Alnetum incanae Ldi 1921 in den Tschechischen Lndern. Bestnde dieser montanen Auenwaldassoziation begleiten hier Flussgewsser in Gebirgstlern und am Hochgebirgsrand, meist in den Lagen von 650-900 m . NN. Das Alnetum incanae wird in zwei Subassoziationen geteilt. Das feuchteliebende Alnetum incanae calthetosum Knapp ex Neuhuslov-Novotn subass. nova ist an Gleybden (Nassgleye, sauerstoffreiche Gleye) gebunden, das Alnetum incanae typicum Oberd. 1949 (mit zwei Varianten) bestockt Paternia-Bden. Die Aegopodium podagraria-Variante der typischen Subassoziation bevorzugt pedogenetisch mehr entwickelte Bden mit tiefem Grundwasser, meist in der Kontaktzone zu Klimaxgesellschaften. /// This contribution presents a phytocoenological and ecological analysis of the Alnetum incanae Ldi 1921 occurring in the Czech lands. In the area studied, this association represents a montane alluvial forest whose distribution centre lies at altitudes between 650 m and 900 m (Fig. 1). In the Czech countries two subassociations can be distinguished: the hygrophilous Alnetum incanae calthetosum Knapp ex Neuhuslov-Novotn and the typical subassociation Alnetum incanae typicum Oberd. 1949. Alnetum incanae calthetosum (differential species: Caltha palustris, Cardamine amara, Carex silvatica) represents the hygrophilous form of the association due to a high groundwater table and unfavourable aeration of the soil. Its stands occur over clay-loamy nassgleys or sandy gleys rich in oxygen. Alnetum incanae typicum Oberd. 1949 (lacking differential species) is a community of fresh soils. Its typical variant (synonym: Alnetum incanae typicum Mller et Grs 1958) is associated with moderately humous, almost yearly flooded mid-gleyed soils of the paternia type, well aerated, at least in their upper layers. Stands of the variant with Aegopodium podagraria of the Alnetum incanae typicum (synonym: Alnetum incanae aegopodietosum Mller et Grs 1958) occur on strongly or very strongly humous, brownish soils of the type of a typical paternia, flooded at high water stage only; their groundwater table is very low, and the whole range of their profile is well aerated. 
4180589|Pinguicula rotundiflora (Lentibulariaceae), a new species from southern Mexico related to P. parvifolia Robinson is described and illustrated.
4179820| Die Ursachen bestimmter Schwierigkeiten bei der Klassifizierung von Apophyten-Gesellschaften nach der Zrich-Montpellier-Schule liegen in der rumlichen und zeitlichen Vernderlichkeit der Verbreitung und Vergesellschaftung einzelner Apophyten. Das Bemhen die Apophyten-Gesellschaften in der "Assoziationsrangstufe" zu typisieren, stsst auf methodische Widersprche der Schule. Die Apophyten sind als "Assoziations-Kennarten" kaum anwendbar. Die Begriffe "Apophyt" und "Assoziations-Kennart" schliessen sich schon nach ihrem Inhalt gegenseitig aus. Die Apophyten-Gesellschaften kann man nicht als Assoziationen im Sinne der Zrich-Montpellier-Schule betrachten. Deshalb werden einige andere methodische Lsungsmglichkeiten vorgeschlagen und kurz diskutiert. /// The paper analyses some reasons for difficulties with the syntaxonomic classification of communities of nitrophilous apophytic species. Particular attention is paid to difficulties with the incorporation of these communities into the phytocenological system. The considerable lack of unity in methodology when defining the syntaxonomic units at the association level is emphasised. These discrepancies result in different meaning ascribed to the "association" by different authors, and in substantial heterogeneity in the content of this concept. The method employed in defining any "association" must therefore always be stated in each paper. Inevitably these methodological discrepancies are reflected in the system of higher syntaxonomic units. Some authors regard certain apophytic and neophytic plant species as "character species" of certain associations. In the opinion of the author of this paper, the contents of the terms "apophyte" and "association-character species" exclude each other. Each apophyte shows at least two cenological optima: (1) in a natural cenosis (group of cenoses) from which it originates; (2) in an anthropogenous cenosis (group of cenoses) in which its occurrence is secondary. The distribution of a species often markedly differs in various types of anthropogenous communities and in different regions. It also varies in dependence on the history of human colonisation and the economic development of a territory. The present paper gives numerous examples of these phenomena. The last chapter of the paper mentions several new ways of classifying anthropogenous plant communities. The main problem is the large number of new and recently arising species combinations entered by many anthropophytes. Consequently, anthropogenous plant communities have to be studied and typified with respect to their continuous variation in both space and time. This requirement is fulfilled, for instance, by the new classification method after Kopeck and Hejn (1971, 1974a, 1974b) and Kopeck (1974). This method renders it possible to incorporate a great many anthropogenous communities into the phytocenological system. The synsystematic position of individual communities in the auxillary framework of higher syntaxonomic units is not rigidly fixed; it depends on spatial and temporal changes of their species composition. 
4180313| Echio-Verbascetum Sissingh 1950, Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albae Slavk 1978 und Erysimo-Galeopsietum angustifoliae Mucina 1982 gehren zur Gruppe von Gesellschaften des Verbandes Dauco-Melilotion Grs 1966 auf natrlichen Standorten, d.h. im Falle der Donau-Tiefebene auf Flusskiesbnken. Im mittleren Povaie-Gebiet kommen diese Gesellschaften entlang des Vh-Flusses vor, wobei sie typische Zonationssysteme bilden. Sie sind die artenreichsten Gesellschaften des Verbandes, ihre Artenzahl erreicht sogar Werte von 47-49 (Echio-Verbascetum). Die Lactuca viminea-Artemisia campestris-Gesellschaft ist im Untersuchungsgebiet selten. Sie besiedelt halbruderale Standorte - ruderalisierte Bergfsse unter Abhngen. Zu den grundlegenden Charakteristika der Gesellschaften gehrt auch der hohe Anteil thermophiler und xerophiler Arten der Klasse Sedo-Scleranthetea und Festuco-Brometea, als auch der Anteil von Arten skelettreicher Substrate (Arten der Klasse Thlaspietea rotundifolii). /// From the northwestern part of Podunajsk nina Lowlands there is described the group of the communities of the alliance Dauco-Melilotion, which meets Echio-Verbascetum Sissingh 1950, Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albae Slavk 1978 and Erysimo-Galeopsietum angustifoliae Mucina 1982. These communities are close related synecologically and as to their floristic composition and syndynamics as well. They form a typical zonation system on gravel banks of the river Vh. The description of the community of Lactuca viminea and Artemisia campestris is added. This one could be found on semiruderal sites (ruderalized slope-foots of the Mal Karpaty Mts.). In the floristic composition of this community a lot of xerothermic species highly participate. 
4179619| Im Rahmen des europischen Systems der Klasse Ammophiletea Br.-Bl. et R. Tx. 1943 stellt der Verfasser fr den Verband Elymion gigantei Morariu 1957 eine neue Ordnung Elymetalia gigantei Vich. ordo nova auf, in die die Stranddnengesellschaften des kontinentalen Sdosteuropas einbezogen sind. Das Elymion gigantei Morariu 1957 ist in Bulgarien, Rumnien und in der Sdukraine durch folgende Assoziationen und Subassoziationen vertreten: Ammophilo-Elymetum gigantei Vich. ass. nova mit den Subassoziationen -typicum Vich. subass. nova, -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova und -festucetosum vaginatae Vich. subass. nova; Elymetum gigantei Morariu 1957 mit den Subassoziationen -typicum Vich. subass. nova und -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova; Centaureo odessanae-Elymetum gigantei Vich. ass. nova mit den Subassoziationen -typicum Vich. subass. nova, -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova, -agropyretosum maeotici Vich. subass. nova und -festucetosum beckeri Vich. subass. nova; provisorisch wird die Assoziation Asparago levinae-Calamagrostidetum epigei Vich. ass. nova prov. aufgestellt. In der Gruppe der litoralen Felsgesellschaften des Crithmo-Staticion Molin. 1934 wird das Goniolimoni-Crithmetum maritimi Vich. ass. nova, in der Gruppe der Splsaumgesellschaften des Euphorbion peplis R. Tx. 1950 das Cakileto euxinae-Salsoletum ruthenicae Vich. ass. nova mit den Subassoziationen -typicum Vich. subass. nova und -crambetosum ponticae Vich. subass.nova und das Cakileto euxinae-Salsoletum tragi Vich. ass. nova angefhrt. /// The present paper presents a phytocenological study of the littoral vegetation of the Black Sea shore. The fundamental question is the syntaxonomical position of the sea-coast dunes plant communities of this area. For these communities of the class Ammophiletea Br.-Bl. et R. Tx. 1943 the new order Elymetalia gigantei Vich. ordo nova was proposed. This order with the alliance Elymion gigantei Morariu 1957 includes sea-coast dunes plant communities with a distribution in continental south-eastern and eastern Europe. The following associations and subassociations of the Elymion gigantei Morariu 1957 have been ascertained on the shore of the Black Sea up to the present: Ammophilo arundinaceae-Elymetum gigantei Vich. ass. nova is an association of the transitional territory between the Mediterranean and Pontic regions. Its distribution is limited to Bulgaria; in the east it reaches to the western margin of Dobrodgea. Besides the typical subassociation -typicum Vich. subass. nova the subassociations -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova and -festucetosum vaginatae Vich. subass. nova are also described anew. Elymetum gigantei Morariu 1957 with the subassociations -typicum Vich. subass. nova and -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova connects in the west with the foregoing association; in the east it is limited by the delta of Danube. It is known from Roumania Centaureo odessanae-Elymetum gigantei Vich. ass. nova with the subassociations -typicum Vich. ass. nova -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova, -agropyretosum maeotici Vich. subass. nova and -festucetosum beckeri Vich. subass. nova is a plant community of the Pontic part of the Black Sea from the Danube delta as far as the Azov Sea in the east. The association Asparago levinae-Calamagrostidetum epigei Vich. ass. nova prov. which has been ascertained in the island of Dolgij (Ukraine) is described provisionally. Further associations which Borza et Bocaiu (1965) place in the Elymion gigantei Morariu 1957, do not belong to the vegetation of the sea-coast dunes of the Ammophiletea Br.-Bl. et R. Tx. 1943. Of other types of littoral vegetation plant communities of the alliances Crithmo-Staticion Molin. 1934 and Euphorbion peplis R. Tx. 1950 are described in this paper. The Mediterranean Crithmo-Staticion Molin. 1934 is represented only in Bulgaria by the Goniolimoni-Crithmetum maritimi Vich. ass. nova. Within the bounds of the Euphorbion peplis R. Tx. 1950 the following associations are described: Cakileto euxinae-Salsoletum ruthenicae Vich. ass. nova with the subassociations -typicum Vich. subass. nova (this in two variants) and -crambetosum ponticae Vich. subass. nova. It occurs all along the shore in Bulgaria. Cakileto euxinae-Salsoletum tragi Vich. ass. nova, which is provisionally placed in the Euphorbion peplis R. Tx. 1950, has been found in the Ukraine. 
4180522|Trianthema portulacastrum L. was recorded growing in cultivated fields north of Cairo in 1978. Description, distribution and ecology of the species are briefly outlined. Data and observations indicate the possibility of its becoming a pest in future in Egypt.
4181280|A new species of Myosotis ser. Palustres Popov, Myosotis michaelae, related to the M. nemorosa group, is described from France. Further localities from Switzerland, Romania and Bulgaria are listed. Diploid chromosome number (2n = 22) is given for the new species, and notes on its distribution, ecology and taxonomic relationships are presented. The lectotype is chosen and designated for the name Myosotis palustris L. var. scabra Simonk.
4179891| Die neunte Studie ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae ist in drei Teile aufgeteilt. Der erste Teil ist den Arten der Gattung Jungermannia gewidmet, die in Hawaii vorkommen. Nach dem Verfasser kommen im genannten Gebiet nur drei Jungermannia-Arten vor, u. zw. J. (L.) subulata Evans (bereits in der dritten Studie beschrieben und abgebildet), J. (P.) micrantha (Mitt.) Steph. und J. (S.) hawaiica (Mill.) Va, comb. nova. Die zwei letztgenannten Arten sind eingehend taxonomisch bearbeitet, weitere beschriebene, aus diesem Gebiet stammende Arten (J. baldwinii Steph., J. mauii Aust., J. newellana Steph., J. sexplicata Steph., Nardia exserta Evans, Plectocolea submicrantha Mill.) werden mit den obenerwhnten Arten synonymisiert. Der zweite Teil der Studie enthlt wichtige Ergnzungen zu den frheren Studien; J. (S.) pocsii Va sp. nova aus Zentralafrika ist neubeschrieben. Der dritte Teil ist eine Synopsis der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. /// The ninth study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys (based on fertile and sterile plants) to the Hawaiian species of the genus Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. 2. Synonymy, drawings and descriptions of J. (P.) micrantha (Mitt.) Steph. and J. (S.) hawaiica (Mill.) Va. There are also data on the type specimens, exsiccata, ecology, geographical distribution, variation, taxonomy and relationships of these taxa. 3. Important additions to the published papers of the autor; J. (S.) pocsii Va from Africa is described as new. 4. Synopsis of the species of the genus Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. 
4180266|Twenty three species of Hyphomycetes new to Czechoslovakia are listed with comments and illustrations. Seven are new to science-Blastophorum pini, Bloxamia bohemica, Junctospora pulchra, Linodochium formosum, Phaeostalagmus peregrinus, Sporidesmium doliiforme, Xiambola mirabilis-and of these, two are the types of new genera (Junctospora and Xiambola). The new species and genera are described, illustrated and discussed. Anamorphs of Mytilidion gemmigenum Fuckel and Pseudohelotium pineti (Batsch ex Fr.) Fuckel in Taeniolella and Linodochium, respectively are reported. Collections of these fungi from Britain are also cited. Data on morphology, ecology and distribution of those species occurring in both Britain and Czechoslovakia are compared.
4181398|Three issues are discussed relevant to the controversy over using null models and observational data on guild structure to test community-level predictions based on limiting similarity theory. First, I argue that most limiting similarity theory is not based on reasonable assumptions for plants and that the theory that is relevant does not generate any predictions about expected guild proportionality on a small spatial scale. Therefore, regardless of adequacy of the statistical methods, the predictions being tested by the body of literature using null models to test for niche limitation are unlikely to be relevant in most plant comunities. Second, assuming that the predictions are after all worth being tested, I argue that most tests using the guild approach do not provide adequate explanations of how the defined guilds could lead to greater competition within vs. between guilds. If this is not true for the particular guilds used, the predictions of guild proportionality or size constancy will not be valid. Third, I address the controversy over whether field experiments can provide more solid evidence than observational data about the role of competition in determining community structure by (1) suggesting methods of dealing with potential drawbacks of field experiments, and (2) suggesting alternative experimental approaches for directly addressing issues about community structure.
4180344| Der Bericht bringt die wichtigsten Ergebnisse der 2. Beratung ber die geplante Vegetationskarte Europas im Massstab 1: 3 Mill. Aufgrund der nationalen Vorschlge wurden die einheitlichen Legenden fr die arktische und boreale Zone Europas, fr die Vegetation der temperaten Zone von Mittel- und Osteuropa, der Balkanlnder, fr die Waldsteppen, Steppen und Wsten und fr die azonale Vegetation der Moore erarbeitet und zur Diskussion vorgelegt. Es wurde eine einheitliche Formationsgliederung vorgeschlagen und eine Farbenskala fr die Darstellung der Formationen empfohlen. Es wurden Massnahmen fr die weitere Organisierung des Projektes angenommen. 
4180031|Vertical profiles of soil temperature and of the dry and wet bulb temperature of the air, relative humidity and wind velocity were measured within and above stands of Junco-Molinietum Preising 1951 (facies of Deschampsia caespitosa) and Caricetum gracilis Almquist 1929 on selected sunny days during the growing season. Evapotranspiration was computed by means of the heat-budget equation. The principal difference between the two communities has been found in the soil temperature. The stand of the Caricetum gracilis occupies a habitat with a cooler soil and with a higher ground water level than the stand of the Junco-Molinietum coeruleae, facies of Deschampsia caespitosa. The evapotranspiration per unit ground area was higher by some 20% in the Caricetum gracilis. The evapotranspiration per unit above-ground biomass was much the same in both communities.
4180545|Chalara (Corda) Rabenh. and some closely similar and related genera as Exochalara W. Gams et Hol.-Jech., Fusichalara Hughes et Nag Raj and Dictyochaeta Speg. have been studied from the territory of Czechoslovakia, occassionaly from Poland or other regions. The paper provides a key to phialophorous Hyphomycetes with unbranched conidiophores and integrated terminal phialides, as well keys to species of studied genera. Redescriptions and figures are given for twenty species of Chalara, two species of Exochalara, one species of Fusichalara and seven species of Dictyochaeta Speg. 1923, the latter being an earlier name for Codinaea R. Maire 1937. Two new species are described both in Chalara and Dictyochaeta - C. neglecta Hol.-Jech., C. piceae-abietis Hol.-Jech., D. abnormis Hol.-Jech., D. menisporoides Hol.-Jech. and one in Exochalara - E. imbricata Hol.-Jech. Teleomorphs associated with the examined species are listed; the one connected with Chalara breviclavata Nag Raj et Kendrick is described as a new species here - Chaetosphaeria chalaroides Hol.-Jech.
4179735| New nomenclatural combinations are proposed, necessitated mostly by the adoption of a narrower concept of the generic classificatory unit or, in some cases, by necessary changes of the taxonomic rank in several taxa. Explanatory comments on the taxonomic and nomenclatural problems are provided in the following genera: Aegonychon S. F. Gray (Lithospermum L. p.p.), Anemonastrum Holub and Anemonoides Mill. (Anemone L. p.p.), Bromopsis Fourr. (= Bromus L. p.p.), Calathiana Delarbre (Gentiana L. p.p.), Calcitrapoides Fabr. (Centaurea L. p.p.), Ciminalis Adans. (Gentiana L. p.p.), Pistolochia Bernh. (Corydalis Vent. p.p.), Psyllium Mill. (Plantago L. p.p.) and Tephroseris (Reichenb.) Reichenb. (Senecio L. p.p.). In all 300 new combinations are proposed, including 17 in Anemonastrum, 32 in Anemonoides, 70 in Bromopsis, 13 in Calathiana, 13 in Calcitrapoides, 29 in Pistolochia, 40 in Tephroseris and 25 in Xanthoxalis. /// Whrend der Vorbereitung einiger zusammenfassenden Handbcher ber die tschechoslowakische Flora werden verschiedene Taxa-Gruppen taxonomisch und nomenklatorisch revidiert. Als Ergebnisse dieser Revision werden hier neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen vorgeschlagen, meistens auf Grund einer neuen taxonomischen Bewertung der studierten Taxa (oft wegen einer engeren Auffassung der Gattungsklassifikationseinheit). Folgende Gattungen, gewhnlich in der modernen Taxonomie nicht angewendet, sind in dieser Studie angenommen: Aegonychon S. F. Gray (Lithospermum L. p.p.), Anemonoides Mill. (Anemone L. p.p.), Calathiana Delarbre (Gentiana L. p.p.), Calcitrapoides Fabr. (Centaurea L. p.p.), Ciminalis Adans. (Gentiana L. p.p.), Colobium Roth (Leontodon L. p.p.), Duschekia Opiz (Alnus Mill. p.p.), Pistolochia Bernh. (Corydalis Vent. p.p.), Psyllium Mill. (Plantago L. p.p.), Tephroseris (Reichenb.) Reichenb. (Senecio L. p.p.), Virga Hill (Dipsacus L. p.p.), Xanthoxalis Small (Oxalis L. p.p.). Der Name Anemonastrum Holub (Anemone L. p.p.) wird als ein Ersatzname fr Homalocarpus (DC.) Schur wegen seiner Homonymie vorgeschlagen; Bromopsis Fourr. tritt statt Zerna auct., Helminthotheca Zinn statt Helminthia Gaertn.  Conygeron Holub wird als ein Name fr die Bezeichnung der Hybridisierungsprodukte zwischen den Gattungen Conyza L. und Erigeron L. vorgeschlagen. Manche von den neuen Kombinationen entstanden als Resultate der nderung des taxonomischen Ranges. nderungen der Namen, die nur durch nomenklatorische Grnde motiviert wrden (mit Ausschluss der Kombinationen mit den Gattungsnamen Bromopsis und Calathiana, die aber auch nur zum Teil nomenklatorisch begrndet werden) sind sehr selten in dieser Studie. Der Gattungsname Aegonychon S. F. Gray 1821 wird mit der Art Lithospermum purpurocaeruleum L. typisiert und stellt daher einen Typonym von Margarospermum (Reichenb.) Opiz 1839 dar. Zerna Panzer 1814 umfasst den Holotypus von Vulpia Gmel. 1806 - Festuca myurus L. - und ist daher ein illegitimer Name, der mit der Typus-Art von Vulpia Gmel. 1806 typisiert werden muss. Bromopsis Fourr. 1869 ist der korrekte Name fr die Gattung, die gewhnlich unter dem Namen Zerna angegeben wird. Calathiana Delarbre (gegrndet auf Gentiana nivalis L.) wie auch Ciminalis Adans. (die Artengruppe von Gentiana acaulis L. s.l.) sind vom taxonomischen Gesichtspunkt aus von den anderen Gruppen der Gattung Gentiana gut abgegrenzt und stellen sehr natrliche Verwandtschaftskreise in Gentiana L. s. l. vor. Der Name Calathiana Delarbre 1800 muss den Namen Hippion F. W. Schmidt 1794 (taxonomisch sehr uneinheitliches Taxon) ersetzen, weil er auch die Typus-Art eines lteren Gattungsnamen Tretorrhiza Adans. 1763 einschliesst. Ciminalis Adans. 1763 war in seiner originalen Auffassung sehr unnatrlich vom taxonomischen Gesichtspunkt aus; auf Grund der Einschrnkungsmethode wird Ciminalis Adans. mit der Art Gentiana acaulis L. typisiert und muss den Namen "Ericoila", der manchmal fr die hier behandelte Gattung angewendet wurde, ersetzen. 
4181462|Plants have three basic means of reproduction, by outcrossing, by selfing, and asexually. In most plant populations, at least two and often all three of these options are everpresent, so that individuals adopt mixed mating strategies at evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) threshholds. Because mating systems are genetically controlled and affect genotype structure, they are liable to feedback. Productive habitats with a large standing crop are more likely to favour outcrossing, while unproductive habitats may favour asexuality or selfing, so that mating systems may change through seral development, even within the same species. Outcrossing tends to break up linkage disequilibria, but may also favour the creation of adaptive linkage groups. Mechanisms whereby male sexual selection, small population size and selfing can influence the genetic structure of populations are examined.
4181394|Variance deficit in richness is not reliable evidence for niche limitation. The main problem is the effect of limitation to individual plant module packing at small quadrat sizes, though environmental and historical patchiness can also confound the results unless patch models are used. More reliable approaches to community structure (assembly rules) are those that take into account the characters of the species - guild proportionality, texture convergence and limiting similarity tests. A informally Bayesian approach to community structure is advocated, accepting that some hypotheses have greater prior probability, such as module-packing limitations, but using all the evidence available to estimate the likelihood of all the ecological hypotheses. The problem of environmental patchiness can be largely overcome by patch models. These models also overcome the problem of spatial autocorrelation, because they are conservative in such situations. For guild proportionality analyses, the possibility of sampling bias is a particular problem; this should be borne in mind during sampling, and checks made for the possibility in analyses. In devising Monte Carlo tests for community structure, permutation tests (i.e. randomisation tests, using sampling without replacement) are theoretically and practically preferable to bootstrap tests (i.e. using sampling with replacement). The best test is the simplest one that incorporates the intended null model and uses the intended test statistic. Experiments have intuitive appeal, but field experiments have several severe drawbacks, including the inevitability of artefacts, and insoluble problems of when to record. In practice, field experiments have told us surprisingly little about community structure.
4180984|In seven meadow stands of natural hydroseres the average total underground biomass ranged from 1.6 to
4179593|The author describes 5 new species (Brunfelsia Acunae, Coccocypselum glaberrimum, Dioscorea montecristina, Ipomoea montecristina and Pavonia lagunarum), 1 subspecies (Fleuria cuneata subsp. horrida), 4 varieties and 2 forms from Cuba, publishes some new combinations and refers on 6 species new for Cuba.
4179654|An idea is given of consortia, that is of elementary units of biocoenoses composed of single species of autotrophic plants and organisms intimately connected with them, chiefly heterotrophs. The dependence of different forms of interrelations between plants and organisms consortially connected with them is discussed.
4179907| The growth rate of stand biomass, the seasonal development of vertical stand structure and accumulation of mineral nutrients were compared in two Phrogmites ecotypes; the stands occur in two different biotopes, littoral and limosal, situated in the littoral of the Opatovick fishpond in the South Bohemian fishpond basin. Microclimatological data including incoming global radiation were recorded in both biotopes during three growing seasons. The differences in morphological, chemical and production characteristics of the two reed ecotypes were in good relation with the edaphic, hydrochemical and microclimatological characteristics of their biotopes. These differences are reflected in a higher leaf area index, denser stand, higher production parameters and a higher efficiency in the conversion of solar energy in the limosal reed ecotype as compared with the littoral population. The differences in annual production and in energy conversion have not changed within seven growing seasons. 
4179569| The nomenclatural validity of the names published in Fabricius's work "Enumeration methodica plantarum horti medici helmstadiensis" has been revised, with special reference to those of monotypic genera. The arguments for recognizing these names as validly published are given, and also reasons for regarding them as unitary designations of species. After consideration of all the arguments the author is convinced that the names in question are not validly published generic names as they are to be regarded as uninomial designations of species. Special attention is given to the name Lamiastrum Heister ex Fabricius (1759), which has recently been adopted as the correct name for the genus generally known as Galeobdolon Adans. 1763, but is here regarded as not validly published. As the name Galeobdolon Adans. itself may not necessarily be regarded as legitimate on account of the inclusion of the type species of the name Galeopsis L. 1753 in the circumscription of the genus, the author here makes a proposal for the conservation of this name which has been so often used in botanical literature. The genus Galeobdolon is considered to be represented only by one aggregate with three species, the names of which are critically revised. For the diploid species occurring in the East Alps a new nemenclatural combination is proposed - Galeodolon flavidum (Hermann) Holub - and Hudson's concept of the type species of the name Galedobdolon has to be amended by a restriction. In an Appendix the results are given of a short revision of the so-called "generic" names in Fabricius's work, with suggestions for further detailed investigation. At the same time some amendments to the List of "Nomina generica conservanda" are proposed, and attention is drawn to the necessity for certain changes in the citations of some generic names commonly taken up from Fabricius's work. /// Die nomenklatorische Gltigkeit der im Werke,,Enumeratio methodica plantarum hortimedici helmstadiensis, ed. 1., (1759); ed. 2., (1763)" vom Fabricius verffentlichten Gattungsnamen, hauptschlich der Namen der monotypischen Gattungen, wurde einer grndlichen Revision unterzogen; es werden nicht nur solche Grnde vorgebracht, die die nomenklatorische Gltigkeit dieser Namen als Gattungsnamen besttigen knnen, sondern auch Grnde, die ihre nomenklatorische Ungltigkeit als Gattungsnamen verlsslich beweisen. Fr die Mglichkeit der Annahme solcher Namen als berechtigte Gattungsnamen knnen folgende Grnde sprechen: der Schriftsatz des Textes des erwhnten Buches; analoge typographische Schriftart des angenommenen Namens und des in seiner Synonymik angefhrten Gattungsnamens; Angabe des Gattungsnamens in der Synonymik des angenommenen Namens der Pflanze; Anfhren nur des Gattungsnamens in der Synonymik des angenommenen Namens der Pflanze (diese Praxis kann aber auch logischerweise ein Argument gegen die Gltigkeit solcher Namen sein); Bentzung des Terminus,,Gattung" in Heister's Arbeiten (L. Heister war ein Vorgnger von Fabricius in Helmstadt, an dessen Ansichten Fabricius anknpfte); Mflichkeit der Bentzung eines solchen Gattungsnamens in der polynomischen Bezeichnung einer Art, welche mit der vom betreffenden Autor angenommenen Gattungsbezeichnung nicht identisch sein muss (jm Sinne der von Heister aufgestellten nomenklatorischen Regeln). Dagegen bestehen fr den Charakter der behandelten Namane als uninominale Bezeichnungsweisen der Arten Folgende Grnde: Teilung der,,Gattungen" unmittelbar in Varietten; unmittelbare Identifizierung des Gattungsnamens mit dem Names der Art; Bezeichnung der Art auf der Bildtafel mit einem uninominalen Namen (bei Heister); Anfhren der Artensynonymen bei den Gattungsnamen; einreihung des Gattungsnamens in die Synonymik des angenommenen Namens der Art; Anfhren der erst angefhrten Art (oder der,,Typus-Art") der mehrere Arten umfassenden Gattung mit einer uninominalen Bezeichnung; Angabe von blossen,,Gattungsnamen" zusammen mit den Arten in der Liste kultivierter Pflanzen; Bentzung des Terminus Art" im Falle eines,,Gattungsnamesn"; das fast vollkommene Weglassen des Terminus,,Gattung" durch Fabricius in seinem ganzem Werke. Nach der Gegenberstellung der angefhrten Grnde und bei gleichzeitiger Erwgung der Probleme der Gltigkeit der uninominalen Bezeichnungsweisen bei denjenigen Autoren, die die binomische Nomenklatur nicht angenommen haben, und auch in Hinsicht auf die Regeln des Kodes scheinen die Grnde, die die behandelten Namen als uninominale Bezeichnungsweisen der Arten im Werke von Fabricius besttigen, unmittelbarer, konkreter, klarer und erweislicher zu sein als die Grnde fr die Auffassung solcher Namen als nomenklatorisch gltig verffentlichten Gattungsnamen; die Grnde fr eine solche Auffassung sind eher andeutend als erweislich. Der Hauptgrund fr eine solche auffassung sind eher andeutend als erweislich. Der Hauptgrund fr eine solche Auffassung sind eher andeutend als erweislich. der Hauptgrund fr die Ungltigkeit der behandelten Namen liegt in einer nicht ganz klaren Unterscheidung zwinschen den Rangstufen der GAttung und der Art bei den Taxa der monotypischen Gattungen und oft auch bei den,,Typus-Arten" der mehrere arten umfassenden Gattungen. Auf Grund dieser Ansicht und auch auf Grund der speziellen Analyse der Verffentlichung des Namens Lamiastrum Heister ex Fabricius 1759 ist es ntig auch diesen Namen als ungltig verffentlicht zu betrachten. Der Name Galeobdolon Adans. 1763, welcher bisher fast ausschliesslich fr die behandelte Gattung bentzt wurde, weist einen gewissen Mangel auf, weil er in der ursprnglichen Abgrenzung auch die Typus-Art der Gattung Galeopsis L. einschliesst, wenn auch durch Anfhren eines ungltigen Namens. In Hinsicht auf diese Tatsache, sowie auch mit Bercksichtigung dessen, dass bisher keine einheitliche Ansicht zu den uninominalen Bezeichnungsweisen der kurz nach der Einfhrung der Linn'schen binomischen Nomenklatur folgenden Periode, und speziell zu den Namen von Fabricius unter den Botanikern besteht, betrachte ich es als geeignet, den Namen Galeobdolon Adans. 1763 mit der Typus-Art Galeopsis galeobdolon L. 1753 als einen geschtzten Namen gegenber Lamiastrum Heister ex Fabricius 1759, bzw. Lamiastrum Ehrendorf. et Polatschek f1966 vorzuschlagen. Die Gattung Galeobdolon Adans. umfasst nur eine einzige Kollktivart mit drei Kleinarten, von denen zwei primre diploide Typen - G. luteum und G. flavidum - durch Divergenzerscheinungen voneinander gut unterscheidbar wurden; vom Gesichtspunkte der morphologischen Unterscheidbarkeit werden sie jedoch durch die Existenz von der tetrapoloiden, mit grsster Wahrscheinlichkeit aus ihnin entstandenen allopolyploiden Art G. montanum genhert. Bei richtiger Benennug der Art G. luteum ist es ntig die ursprngliche Auffassung dieser Art von Hudson durch eine Verengung (Restriktion) aur die Auffassung des Taxons Pollichia vulgaris Pers. 1795 zu emendieren; fr die zweite in den Ostalpen heimische diploide Art wird in der Gattung Galeobdolon Adans. in der Rangstufe der Art eine neue nomenklatorische Kombination - Galeobdolon flavidum (Hermann) Holub - vorgeschlagen. Die Studie schliesst mit einem Anhang (Appendix), in welchem die Ergebnisse einer kurzen Revision der im Werke von Fabricius angefhrten Namen mitgeteilt werden. Diese untersuchten Namen wurden in einige (8) Gruppen eingeteilt; die grsste Gruppe enthlt eingliedrige Artennamen, die Fabricius von Heister bernommen hat. die Gattungsnamen, die zusammen mit einer Beschreibung direkt im Werke vom Fabricius gltig verffentlicht wurden. findet man nur sehr selten; einige der Namen wird man noch im Hinblick auf die Mglichkeit der Feststellung ihrer Gltigkeit auf Grund eines indirekten Hinweises auf eine frher verffentlichte Gattungsbeschreibung mit der Hilfe des Zitierens des Autornamens oder seiner Abkrzung revidieren mssen. Im einklang mit den Bemerkungen von Rauschert schlgt der Autor bestimmte Korrekturen in der Liste der geschtzten Namen im Kode vor, weil dort manche Namen aus dem Werke von Fabricius hauptschlich als verworfene Namen, seltener aber auch als geschtzte Namen angegeben werden, auch wenn dies in Hinsicht auf ihren Charakter als uninominale Bezeichnungsweisen der Arten nicht berechtigt ist. Weiter informiert der Autor ber notwendige nderungen in den Literaturzitaten einiger oft gebraucter Gattungsnamen, die von der Annahme des uninominalen Bezeichnungsweisecharakters der grssten Zahl der im Werke von Fabricius verffentlichten,, Gattungsnamen" ausgehen. 
4181031|Up-to-date crop production concentrates on the maximisation of plant matter production, both by optimum utilization of solar energy by plants and by the application of additional energy. Therefore a natural strategy is being developed aimed at combining the physiological functions of the assimilation organs with their external shaping and strengthening their variety in space and area. As demonstrated by many deposition studies, this effect is contradictory to the factors conditioning the low deposition capacity of plant covers. A high level of particle, gas and solution deposition increases the danger of food chain contamination and has a negative impact on plant production. Data concentrated on transport values of pollutants and their long-term dynamics in stands could be used for the selection of ideal crop types; therefore every effort should be directed towards selection and breeding.
4180118| A comparative review of the elementary chemical composition of aquatic vascular plants is presented together with the author's own results. Attention is focussed on the specific genotypic, onthogenetic and between-organs variability of the selective uptake and accumulation of mineral ions in macrophytes in relation to trophic conditions of habitat. The concentration factors and atomic ratios are also considered. Numerical tables presenting comparative data are arranged alphabetically according to plant species, with indications of geographical situation, phenology, part of plant tissues analyzed, nutrient status in biotopes and appropriate bibliography. /// 1. Die gegenwrtigen Kenntnisse vom Gehalt der Mineralstoffe, ihren Kreislauf und Haushalt in hheren Wasserpflanzen wurden mit Rcksicht auf die stnding steigende Eutrophierung sowohl der aquatischen Biotopen als auch der "Wetlands" revidiert und zusammengefasst. Eine Datenbank der Angaben ber die chemische Zusammensetzung der Wasserpflanzen und ihre Akkumulationskapazitt scheint hchs notwendig zu sein, um eine intensive kosystemuntersuchung und - bewirtschaftung zu ermglichen. Will man jedoch einzelne nummerische Werte vergleichen, die von verschiedenen Autoren an unterschiedlichen Standorten bei verschiedenen Wasserpflanzen festgestellt wurden, dann mssen auch die Ursachen von sowohl realen als auch nur scheinbaren Differenzen und Schwankungen bercksichtigt werden, wie z. B.: a) Fehler und Schwankungen der Extraktions- und Analysemethoden per se. b) Die Variabilitt in der chemischen Zusammensetzung, verursacht durch Alter, Phenophase und Art des analysierten pflanzlichen Organs, die wieder mit der interspezifischen Variabilitt und der chemischen Standortsdiversitt interferiert (Tab. 1 und 2) Die bekannte Saisonalitt der Ionenfluktuation in einer Population wurde in der vorliegenden bersicht mit eigenen Ergebnissen aber auch mit manchen, von anderen Forschern publizierten Angaben dokumentiert (Tab. 3, Abb.1). c) Die infraspezifische Variabilitt verschiedener Formen, kotypen oder Klonen muss ebenfalls bercksichtigt werden. d) Die kologische Differenzierung, verursacht durch verschiedene chemischen Standortsmerkmale, wird durch Angaben in Tab. 4 illustriert. Die in der Natur gefundenen chemischen Beziehungen wurden durch chemische Analysen von Pflanzen besttigt, die in experimentalen hydroponischen Anlagen in Nhrlsungen kultiviert wurden (Tab. 5). 2. Die selektive Ionenaufnahme gegen dem Konzentrationsgradient und in Beziehung zu anderen Ionen wurde zusammengefasst und an Beispielen demonstriert (Tab. 9. und Abb. 3). 3. Die in der Literatur fr verschiedene Pflanzenarten und Ionen angegebenen Konzentrationsfaktoren (Tab. 6-8, 10, 11) wurden im Zusammenhang mit ihrem Indikationswert fr die chemische Charakteristik des Wassers und der Bodensedimente diskutiert. 4. Die Ionenkonzentration im metabolisch aktiven Pflanzengewebe - die ursprngliche Lundegrd'sche Methode der Blattanalyse bei den Landpflanzen - gentzt als Wasserqualittsindikator (bioassay), wurde ebenfalls besprochen. 5. Es wurde auch die Nhrstoffbilanz im Mineralkreislauf der Wasser- und Wetlandskosysteme und die Ausntzung der Akkumulationskapazitt einiger Arten von hheren Wasserpflanzen fr die Nhrstoffbeseitigung aus den Abwssern diskutiert. 6. Drei umfangreiche zusammenfassende Tabellen (13-15) enthalten die von mehreren Autoren publizierten vergleichenden Angaben ber die chemische Zusammensetzung hherer Wasserpflanzen, zusammengestellt in Bezugnahme auf Standort, Zeit der Probenentnahme (Phenophase), auf analysiertes pflanzliches Organ und auf die chemische Standortscharakteristik. Die Tabellen sind alphabetisch nach den Pflanzennamen geordnet. 
4179481| General rules for the use of all kinds of association coefficients for the direct computation of mean similarity between sets of vegetational relevs are given in the present paper. In the table the main kinds of association coefficients used in plant sociology are listed according to Sokal and Sneath (1963) and the corresponding formulas for direct computation of the mean similarity between and within sets of relevs are given. 
4181017|Plants of Spirodela polyrrhiza, Lemna gibba, L. minor and L. minuscula were grown experimentally in nutrient media under various nutrient conditions involving different concentrations and forms of nitrogen and different concentrations of phosphorus. The treatments affected the multiplication rate of the plants, their root length and formation of anthocyanin and of turions.
4180839|Altogether 27 species and hybrids from a rhodological collection and wild populations showed obvious relationships between taxonomic allocation and amounts of ascorbic acid in mature hips.
4179630| The paper describes in quantitative terms the vegetative spreading of clones of Typha latifolia in natural conditions. The highest rates of the formation of new shoots during the growing season were recorded in the summer (July to early August) and in the autumn (September to October); this corresponds to the two maxima in the increments in rhizome biomass. The highest rate of expansion was observed in two-year clones in which the annual increment in the colony diameter amounted up to 4 m. The relations between the rhizome and shoot growth in one-year and two-year clones are also discussed and a brief comparison of the results with data found in fully developed stands is included. /// In dieser Arbeit wird die vegetative Ausbreitung der 1 bis 2jhrigen Klonen von Typha latifolia unter den natrlichen Bedingungen Sdmhrens (relativ warme Tiefebene Mitteleuropas) analysiert. Unsere Ergebnisse erlauben folgende Schlussfolgerungen auszusprechen: 1. Die neuen Sprosse der untersuchten Klonen wachsen ab Mai in krzeren Intervallen aus und auch ihre Lngenwachstum erfolgt rascher. Ab August dagegen - verzgert sich dieser Rhythmus (Abb. 3A, 5A). Der grsste Zuwachs neuer Sprosse fand von der zweiten Julihlfte bis Anfang August sowie in den Herbstmonaten statt. 2. Einer der wichtigsten Faktoren, die die Grsse der Jahresproduktion der Rhizome bestimmen, ist wahrscheinlich die Wachstumsgeschwindigkeit der schon im vorigen Jahr auswachsenden Sprosse der ersten Generation (diese blhen in der Regel im Laufe des zweiten Jahres). Der andere Faktor ist dann die Wachstumsgeschwindigkeit der zu Beginn der neuen Vegetationsperiode gebildeten Sprosse der zweiten Generation, die sich erheblich and der Bildung der Rhizome im Laufe der ganzen Vegetationsperiode beteiligen und die schon in der ersten Hlfte der Vegetationsperiode eine grosse Anzahl der rasch wachsenden Auslufer bilden. 3. Vom Standpunkt der Produktion im Laufe der Vegetationsperiode sind wahrscheinlich diese zwei wichtigsten Perioden zu erwgen: a) Die Sommerperiode (Ende Juni bis Anfang August) in der der grsste Zuwachs der Rhizombiomasse verzeichnet wird (Abb. 3B, B5), b) die Herbstperiode (Ende September bis Oktober), whrend der in den unterirdischen Organen eine grosse Verschiebung der Vorratsstoffe erfolgt. In der Herbstperiode bildet sich eine grosse Menge der berwinternden Knospen, die mit der Muttersprosse oft bloss nur durch einen kurzen, dicken Rhizom verbunden sind. Der Wechsel des kurzen und langen Rhizomzuwachses macht sich auf der horizontalen Struktur ("Pattern") des Typha latifolia-Bestandes bemerkbar. 4. Die Geschwindigkeit der Expansion von Typha latifolia ist durch den Charakter der Rhizomverzweigung dieser Art sowie die Zuwachsintensitt der Rhizommasse bestimmt. Der Koloniendurchmesser bei den einjhrigen und zweijhrigen Klonen war im Herbst ungefhr 3 m und 6 m, der Durchmesser bei dreijhrigen Klonen betrug im dritten Jahr zu Beginn des Sommers ungefhr 8 m (Abb. 11). 
4181106|The paper deals with the edaphic conditions of vegetation development on oligotrophic, wet alluvium. Field texture is of essential importance in the development of the mud vegetation of dwarf-plants. Soil consisting of a high proportion of small primary particles is able to store appropriate quantities of water, and transfers water to the plants with difficulty. Thus, the species which have adapted to these conditions have a competitive advantage over concurrent ones. The clay-rich soil hinders the availability of nitrogen. Hence, nitrophilous vegetation does not develop here. Due to the high adsorption capacity of the soil it may contain a large amount of available phosporus and potassium. The low osmotic activity of the soil is favourable for the development of the mud vegetation of dwarf-plants with a high cover degree.
4180457| The attention was focussed on the evaluation of the impact of trampling on autochtonous dwarf pine communities in the Tatra National Park (Vysok Tatry Mts.). Use was made of combined phytocoenological and production-ecological methods. Results are described and discussed according to floristic-phytocoenological analyses, production-ecological analyses and the basic parameters of total organic matter supply. 
4180713|Nigerian species of Portulaca: P. grandiflora Hooker, P. oleracea L. and P. quadrifida L. combine inbreeding, outbreeding and vegetative propagation in the wild and in the cultivation. Observations have shown that the anthers of Portulaca species dehisces before the flower bud opens, and are usually ripe at the time the stigmas are receptive. This enhances self-fertilization.
4179545| Diese Arbeit bringt Ergebnisse phytoznologisch-kologischer Forschungen der Waldgesellschaften NO-Bhmens, des am rechten Elbeufer zwischen Hradec Krlov-Mstec Krlov-Jin und Hoice gelegenen Gebietes. Folgende Syntaxa wurden untersucht: das Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957 mit fnf Subassoziationen (colchicetosum, typicum, primuletosum veris, luzuletosum albidae, molinietosum arundinaceae), das Potentillo albae-Quercetum Libb. 1933 (Ausbildungsform von Festuca heterophylla), das Luzulo albidae-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Pass. 1953 emend. R. et Z. Neuh. 1967 und das Molinio ar.-Quercetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1967 mit zwei Varianten (typische Var., Var. von Sphagnum). Eine besondere Aufmerksamkeit wurde den Standortsverhltnissen der unterschiedenen Syntaxa (bes. den physikalischen und chemischen Bodeneigenschaften) gewidmet. /// This paper gives the results of phytocoenologic-ecological research of forest communities from the territory of Northeast Bohemia (cf. Fig. 1). In this territory the following communities have been described: 1. the Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957, divided into five subassociations: the G. - C. colchicetosum (Mikyka 1947) comb. n., bound only to heavy alluvial Mullgley soils influenced by groundwater, the G. - C. typicum Oberd. 1957 with two lower units - the form rich and poor in species of Fagetalia, the G. - C. primuletosum veris (Klika 1932) Z. Neuh. 1964, occurring only on soils of rich calcareous substrata of Braune Rendzina, and the oligotrophic subassociations, the G. - C. luzuletosum albidae Oberd. 1967 and G. - C. molinietosum arundinaceae (Schlenker 1940) Oberd. 1967, 2. the Potentillo albae-Quercetum Libbert 1933 (the form with Festuca heterophylla), bound mostly on heavy soils of Pseudogley influenced by standing water, rarely Rendzina types on calcareous substrata, 3. the Luzulo albidae-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Pass. 1953 emend. R. et Z. Neuh. 1967 (in the typical subassociation), occurring on sandy soils of the Podsol-Braunerde type, relatively poor in nutrients, 4. the Molinio arundinaceae-Quercetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1967 (subass. populetosum tremulae R. et Z. Neuh. 1967) with two lower units, the typical variant and the variant with Sphagnum, which appears on wet soils of Parabraunerde-Pseudogley or Pseudogley types. The results of physical and chemical soil analyses of the forest communities studied are discussed in detail and the cause of the habitat convergency of different vegetational units is explained. 
4181025| The montane Nardus-rich acidophilous meadows occurring in the Krkonoe and W. Carpathians Mts. were evaluated. They are classified into Nardo-Agrostion tenuis Sillinger 1933. Five associations were distinguished: Sileno-Nardetum, Homogyno-Nardetum, Hieracio lachenalii-Nardetum, Phleo alpini-Nardetum, and Ranunculo nemorosi-Nardetum, the first occurring in the Krkonoe Mts., the others in the W. Carpathians. 
4179750| Es werden folgende drei neue Arten der Gyalectaceae sensu amplo aus Neu-Guinea beschrieben und abgebildet: Dimerella weberi Vzda sp.n., Gloeolecta minutissima Vzda sp.n. und Gyalidea novaeguineae P. James et Vzda sp.n. Die taxonomische Stellung der neuen Arten innerhalb der Gattungen wird kurz behandelt. /// In a collection of Gyalectaceae sensu amplo from New Guinea three new species were found which are described here; Dimerella weberi which differs from all hitherto known species of this genus by its conspicuously big spores; Gloeolecta minutissima, whose apothecia are much smaller than those in the two species of this genus known until now; Gyalidea novaeguineae, which differs from most relative species by the black-bordered margin of the apothecia.-The type material is preserved in the herbarium of Colorado University (COLO) and in the British Museum (BM). 
4179622| Chromosome counts of the following 15 taxa are given: Eupatorium cannabinum, Gypsophila fastigiata, Helianthemum grandiflorum subsp. obscurum, Helictotrichon desertorum subsp. basalticum, Impatiens parviflora, Inula hirta, Jurinea mollis, Kernera saxatilis, Lembotropis nigricans subsp. nigricans, Malva alcea subsp. excisa, Myosotis nemorosa, Otites pseudotites subsp. cuneifolia, Plantago atrata subsp. carpatica, P. atrata subsp. sudetica, Poa badensis. The chromosome numbers of Helictotrichon desertorum (as subsp. basalticum) and Plantago atrata subsp. sudetica are given for the first time. Chromosome numbers differing from those previously known were found in Jurinea mollis (2n = 34 as compared to 2n = 30) and Kernera saxatilis (2n = 14 as compared to 2n = 16). Rhodax Spach (= Helianthemum L. p. p.) and Otites Adans. (= Silene L. p. p.) are considered as separate genera. Remarks on taxonomy, nomenclature and chorology are given for most of the taxa. /// In diesem Beitrag werden folgende 15 Taxa hherer Pflanzen der tschechoslowakischen Flora behandelt, deren Chromosomenzahlen bestimmt wurden: Eupatorium cannabinum L., Gypsophila fastigiata L., Helianthemum grandiflorum (Scop.) DC. subsp. obscurum (Wahlenb.) Holub, Helictotrichon desertorum (Less.) Nvskij subsp. basalticum (Podp.) Holub, Impatiens parviflora DC., Inula hirta L., Jurinea mollis (Torn.) Reichenb., Kernera saxatilis (L.) Reichenb., Lembotropis nigricans (L.) Griseb. subsp. nigricans, Malva alcea L. subsp. excisa (Reichenb.) Holub, Myosotis nemorosa Bess., Otites pseudotites (Reichenb.) Klokov subsp. cuneifolia (Raf.) Holub, Plantago atrata Hoppe subsp. carpatica (So) So, P. atrata Hoppe subsp. sudetica (Pilger) Holub und Poa badensis Haenke. Die Angaben ber die Chromosomenzahlen werden mit Bemerkungen ber die karyologischen Verhltnisse, bzw. auch mit Bemerkungen ber die taxonomische, nomenklatorische und chorologische Probleme ergnzt. I. Karyologische Ergebnisse 1. Zum erstenmal wurden die Chromosomenzahlen bei Helictotrichon desertorum (als subsp. basalticum) - 2n = 14, und bei Plantago atrata subsp. sudetica - 2n = 24, bestimmt. 2. Abweichende Chromosomenzahlen wurden bei Jurinea mollis (2n = 34 - bis jetzt 2n = 30) und bei Kernera saxatilis (2n = 14 - bis jetzt 2n = 16) festgestellt. 3. Die Chromosomenzahlen einiger weiteren Taxa sind vorlufig angegeben: Myosotis laxiflora Reichenb., 2n = 66; M. palustris (L.) Nathh., 2n = 66; Poa crassipes Domin ex ourek, 2n = 14; Rhodax rupifragus (Kern.) Holub, 2n = 22, and cca 30-33. 4. Eine kritische bersicht der bisher bekannten Chromosomenzahlen der europischen Arten der Gattung Helictotrichon Bess. restr. Holub wird gegeben. II. Taxonomische Ergebnisse 1. Auf Grund der morphologischen Unterschiedlichkeit, die mit einer karyologischen Differenzierung verbunden ist, wurde Helianthemum subg. Plectolobum als eine selbstndige Gattung Rhodax Spach aufgefasst. 2. Auf Grund einer selbstndigen mikrophylogenetischen Stellung der Gruppe der Arten des Silene otites-Komplexes in der Gattung Silene L. wird diese Gruppe als eine Gattung Otites Adans. betrachtet. 3. Bei Gypsophila fastigiata wurde auf die bisher nicht beachtete taxonomische Bedeutung der Merkmale der Samenschale hingewiesen. 4. Die zu breit aufgefasste Art Helianthemum nummularium (L.) Mill. wird auf Grund der unterschiedlichen Behaarungsart der Blattunterseite in zwei Arten - H. nummularium (L.) Mill. s.s. und H. grandiflorum (Scop.) DC. ampl. Holub geteilt. 5. Ein Bestimmungsschlssel der tschechoslowakischen Arten des Myosotis palustris-Umkreises ist beigegeben. Die Chromosomenzahl von Myosotis nemorosa 2n = 22 deutet berzeugend auf die spezifische Verschiedenheit dieses Taxons von den brigen weit verbreiteten Taxa des Myosotis palustris-Komplexes hin. 6. Die Sudeten-Mikropopulation von Plantago atrata wird als eine Unterart angenommen. Dieses Taxon reprsentiert einen weiteren Stenoendemiten der Flora des Hohen Gesenkes. Bemerkungen ber die Taxonomie wurden noch bei folgenden Arten hinzugefgt: Gypsophila fastigiata, Helictotrichon desertorum, Jurinea mollis, Kernera saxatilis, Lembotropis nigricans, Malva alcea und Otites pseudotites. III. Nomenklatorische Ergebnisse 1. Eine umfangreiche Revision der Arten- und Unterartennamen des Umkreises von Helianthemum nummularium wurde durchgefhrt und gltige Namen beider in diesen Umkreis angenommenen Arten wurden festgesetzt. Der richtige Name fr Helianthemum ovatum Dun. s.l. ist H. grandiflorum (Scop.) DC. ampl. Holub. 2. Die Synonymik der Art Myosotis nemorosa Bess. s.l. wurde durch weitere Synonyme ergnzt. Anmerkungen zur Nomenklatur der tschechoslowakischen Vertreter der Gattung Otites Adans. sind im Text ber die Art Otites pseudotites enthalten. IV. Chorologische Ergebnisse 1. Myosotis nemorosa Bess. s.l. wird in Europa auch aus Jugoslawien, der europischen Trkei, Luxemburg, Schweden und dem russischen Lapplande angegeben. 2. Es wurde auf das Vorkommen der pontischen Art Gypsophila collina Ser. in Siebenbrgen hingewiesen, die in Rumnien vieleicht vollkommen die Art G. fastigiata L. vertritt. Bemerkungen ber die Chorologie wurden weiter den Texten ber Impatiens parviflora, Jurinea mollis und Plantago atrata beigefgt. 
4180501| Man made stands with Pinus nigra Arn. were studied on limestone bedrock. They were planted out on biotops of previous calciphilous beech or xerothermophilous oak forests. The analysis of present phytocenological composition and the changes in ecological conditions, especially of nitrogen content in the soil, conduce to their classification, following the conception of Hada and Sofron (1980), as a new euhemerobic forest community, association Clematidi vitalbae-culti-Pinetum nigrae. 
4181547|A syntaxonomic revision of vegetation of anthropogenic metalliferous habitats (mine spoils of lead, zinc and copper mining) in the Eastern Alps (Austria, Germany, Italy and Slovenia) was made. The communities studied belong to the Thlaspietea rotundifolii (Linaria alpina-Cerastium uniflorum comm., Papaveri kerneri-Thlaspietum kerneri, Violetum dubyanae, Thlaspietum cepaeifolii, Thlaspietum rotundifolii, Scrophulario juratensis-Erysimetum sylvestris, Minuartia gerardii-Silene glareosa comm., Epipactido atrorubentis-Silenetum glareosae and Sileno alpestris-Moehringietum muscosae) and to the Asplenietea trichomanis (Sileno rupestris-Asplenietum). There is neither floristic support nor syntaxonomic justification for the concepts of the Galio anisophylli-Minuartion vernae, the Violetalia calaminariae and the Violetea calaminariae in the Eastern Alps. These units should be included within the Thlaspion rotundifolii, Thlaspietalia rotundifolii and Thlaspietea rotundifolii, respectively.
4181488|A critical species of the European flora, Allium fuscum Waldst. & Kit., belonging to A. sect. Codonoprasum Rchb., is investigated. The species was previously confused with other taxa of the A. paniculatum group, but on the basis of herbarium and field investigations A. fuscum is a rare chasmophyte, distributed in Romania and Bulgaria. The description, chromosome number (2n=16), taxonomy, chorology and ecology are provided. The relationships of this species with some related taxa of the A. paniculatum group are also examined.
4179683|New nomenclatural combinations are proposed for species of the following genera: Acosta Adans. (37), Colymbada Hill em. Holub (44), Cyanus Mill. (2) and Jacea Mill. (3), altogether 86 new combinations.
4179829| Beim Studium der Keimungskologie von Cerinthe minor L. wurde ein neuer Typ der Heteromerikarpie festgestellt. Im Schizokarpium dieser Art werden 2 Typen der Merikarpien gebildet. Der erste Typ entsteht aus dem ganzen Fruchtblatt, ist zweifcherig und zweisamig. Der zweite Typ einfcherig und einsamig, entsteht aus einer Hlfte des Fruchtblattes. Beide Typen sind morphologisch leicht zu unterscheiden. Vom Gesichtspunkt der Keimungskologie verhalten sich beide Typen gleichartig. 
4181008|The rate of individual development and biomass of two subpopulations of Potamogeton pectinatus were measured in the heated and cool zones of the Patnowskie Lake in central Poland. P. pectinatus from the heated zone terminated its vegetation six days earlier than individuals from the cool zone. The rate of plant development and individual plant size from both stands were compared during their whole seasonal life cycle. At the final stage of development, the individuals from the heated zone were smaller than those from the cool zone. The data obtained from the measurements were treated by statistical analysis using the MANOVATEST.
4179489|Carex bigelowii complex is a group of taxa distributed over the whole Arctic region and in the mountains of the temperate zone. The species was described from the White Mountains in the eastern part of USA. The plants from Central Europe, the British Isles and Fennoscandinavian mountains differ from the plants of the typelocality in a number of characters, especially in the character of the inflorescence. On the basis of these differences the European plants represent a new taxon which is described as Carex bigelowii Torr. ex Schweinitz subsp. nardeticola Holub, subsp. nova. Very closely related plants to the new taxon are known from Central Siberia and from the Arctic region.
4181301|"Vegetation Structure and Species Co-existence" was the topic of a symposium organized in 1992, in Tartu, Estonia. The symposium was dedicated to the memory of Professor Teodor Lippmaa (1892-1943), who made important contributions, especially to the concept of synusia in community ecology. Current views on relation between vegetation structure and species co-existence vary. This variation is partly due to the traditional opposite views of plant community structure (the individualistic and organismic concept); these views refer both to the strength and role of biotic interactions within a community, and to the community structure.
4180986|Two Chenopodium species (C. album L., C. suecicum J. Murr) were grown under field conditions with sugar beet to assess the weed-caused crop loss, and with spring wheat in a replacement series experiment. The weeds strongly reduced the growth of sugar beet. Dew's competition indexes for the regressions of sugar beet yield on weed density were 6.81 and 3.78 for C. suecicum and C. album respectively. On the other hand, the yield of spring wheat was not affected by the two Chenopodium species owing to early shading of the weeds by the faster growing crop stand.
4179788| Auf Grund der pflanzensoziologischen Materiale aus NW-Bhmen wurde eine neue Calthion-Assoziation, u. zw. das Polygono-Cirsietum palustris beschrieben. Diese Assoziation ist in Bhmen und W-Mhren vorwiegend an hhere Lagen der aus Gesteinen des Kristallinikums gebildeten herzynischen Gebirge gebunden. In niedrigeren Lagen kommt es unter analogen Bedingungen oft zur Ausbildung des Angelico-Cirsietum palustris Darimont 1941. Syngenetisch knpft das Polygono-Cirsietum palustris an die Nasswiesen (Carici-Agrostetum Oberd. 1951 und Pediculari-Juncetum filiformis Preisg. apud Tx. 1947) an. Es handelt sich wohl um eine geographische Vikariante der aus NW-Europa beschriebenen Bromus racemosus-Senecio aquaticus Ass. Tx. in Tx. et Prsg. 1951. /// The present communication describes a new association - Polygono-Cirsietum palustris. In N. W. Bohemian highlands, formed by silicate rocks, this association occurs from the colline to the montane belts, where it is found on the bottom of valleys and over wet slopes, which are often irrigated by springs. Polygono-Cirsietum palustris has also been observed in N.E. Bohemia (sporadic occurrence in areas rich in rainfall and poor in nutrients) and in the Novohradsk hory Mts., S. Bohemia (D. Blakov). Besides, the community has been studied in the drsk vrchy, the northern part of the Bohemian-Moravian Highlands where the continuous area of distribution of this association probably reaches its utmost limit. In the southern part of the Bohemian-Moravian Highlands and in N.E. Bohemia, an allied association, viz. Angelico-Cirsietum palustris Darimont 1941, occurs in analogous habitats. Polygono-Cirsietum palustris and Angelico-Cirsietum palustris are syngenetically closely linked with plant communities of the alliance Caricion fuscae. Both of them show, however, a higher representation of various species of the order Molinietalia, class Molinio-Arrhenatheretea, and order Nardetalia (alliance Violion caninae), and contain other less moisture-demanding species. The two associations described obviously represent a geographical vicariant of Senecio aquaticus-Bromus racemosus-ass., described in N. W. Germany and distributed in the Atlantic and Sub-atlantic regions of Western and Central Europe. Tabs 1 and 2 contain more detailed data on the species composition of Polygono-Cirsietum palustris from N.W. Bohemia, and also a comparison of relevs of this association recorded in various regions, as well as its relation to Angelico-Cirsietum palustris. 
4180032| In the Broumov basin, NE. Bohemia, in all thirteen ruderal plant associations and several not fully identified communities were observed. The following associations: Chamaeplietum officinalis (Sisymbrion), Urtco-Artemisietum vulgaris, Artemisio-Melilotetum albae (both Arction lappae), Aegopodio-Geranietum pratensis, Agropyro-Urticetum dioicae (both Aegopodiom podagrariae), and Sambuco-Salicetum capreae are described as new. The syntaxonomy of the communities with dominating Petasites hybridus is more thoroughly discussed. 
4180299| A new endemic genus, the Aristopsis gen. nov., collected in sandy savannahs of Pinar del Ro Province, Cuba, with two species is described. It is possible that it is phylogenetically related to Aristida L. 
4179594|69 new names are proposed, viz. for 1 genus (Danthoniastrum), 1 subgenus, 1 section, 37 species, 28 subspecies and 1 variety. Most of the new names refer to Otites (10), Helictotrichon (3), Helianthemum grandiflorum (3), Plantago atrata (3), Rhodax (19) and Zerna (17).
4180197|It is suggested that communities of cultivated forests can be incorporated into the system of "natural" wood communities either as facies, variants or subassociations, if they differ below the association level; if they differ on the association level, a new association is suggested, with the prefix "culti-" before the planted dominant tree species. Most of our planted forest communities differ on the level of association or less; the communities of Robinia are the exception. The authors agree with Jurko (1963) in classifying them as individual associations, alliances, order and class.
4180399|This taxonomic revision is based on methods explained in the general part. The author's collections and material from Czechoslovak herbaria were the essential matter for this study. Descriptions of all European species have been completed or precised and keys to their determination have been added. Substantial taxonomic changes were made in the species parasiting on host plants of the genus Potentilla. The author distinguished 11 Peronospora-species on Rosaceae, 3 species were found as new for Czechoslovakia.
4180090|Karyotypic formulae of the Scorzonera L. species are as follows: S. purpurea L.: K (2n) = 14 = =
4181140| Description and drawings of Cephaloziella longii Va, sp. nova, from Bhutan are presented. This species is characterized by filiform shoots, very small leaves which are narrower than the stem and dioecious inflorescences. 
4181173|Names of species and subspecies from Janchen's Catalogus were revised with regard to their validity; invalidly published names were compiled in a commented list of 120 names. About sixty of them were analyzed at length from nomenclatural and taxonomical viewpoints. The cause of the invalidity of these names were discussed; omission of citations of basionyms to proposals of new nomenclatural combinations is the main reason for the invalidity of Janchen's names. Taxonomic reclassifications and nomenclatural revisions resulted in 23 new nomenclatural combinations, five of these proposals representing direct validations of Janchen's invalidly published names. Some more general problems of nomenclature are discussed: indirect validation of invalidly published names; omission of infraspecific homonymy; the correctness and necessity to attach neglected authors' names to the names of plants based on those names distinctly taken over from such authors; problems of autonyms in the ICBN Code. The use of the category "convarietas" in cultivated plants (instead of subspecies) is emphasized. Names validated by Janchen himself in his paper of 1959 should be used with this publication place instead of their invalid publication in the Catalogus. Some propositions for future research by other authors are also added.
4180710|Names for two subspecies and 7 species are validated, in a supplement to the author's account of Alchemilla for the Flora of Slovakia and the Flora of Czechoslovakia. Aspects of the taxonomy, variation, ecology, and geographical distribution of the taxa published as new are considered briefly.
4180908|17 plant associations belonging to 9 alliances from Spitsbergen are discussed; 7 associations, 2 alliances and 1 order are described as new. The percentage of diploids and polyploids in individual plant communities and their relation to ecology is examined.
4179854| The authors present the results of basic stratigraphic investigation, pollen analyses and macroscopic analyses of plant remains concerning two buried peat profiles and their mineral covers in the Zbudovsk blata marshes near esk Budjovice (southern Bohemia, Czechoslovakia). Both profiles (JC-9-A and JC-9-B) are characterized by two phases of sedimentation - earlier organogenic (Dryas III, Pre-boreal, Boreal periods) and later minerogenic (Sub-atlantic period). A stratigraphic hiatus appears between these two phases. The palaeoecological investigation supports the existing information about the rare occurrence of Corylus in some areas of Czechoslovakia during the Boreal period, brings proofs of fir forests in the area of the esk Budjovice Basin in the early Sub-atlantic period, and yields new data on the palaeophytogeography of some aquatic, swamp and mire plants. The paper also attempts to reconstruct the succession of local peat-forming communities. A comparison of the development of vegetation in the esk Budjovice Basin and in the neighbouring Tebo Basin is appended. 
4180739|The contribution deals with the phytocenological analysis of the Rondeletio correifoliae-Andropogonetum multinervosi, an endemic savanna association occurring on the Siguanea Hills (Sierra de la Siguanea) near the Colony Hotel.
4179465| Im nrdlichen Bhmerwaldvorgebirge trifft die boreale Gentianella amarella auf drei sdlichen Vorpostenfundorten mit der sdosteuropischen Gentianella austriaca zusammen und bildet mit ihr eine bisher unbekannte Hybride, die als Gentianella  austroamarella beschrieben wird. 
4179634| Die Autoren erachten nach der Untersuchung der Populationen in der Natur, sowie des Materials in den Prager Herbarien und nach berprfung in der Kultur die slowakische Sippe Cyclamen durpurascens Mill. als eine endemische Unterart: C. purpurascens subsp. immaculatum (Hrabt.) Halda et Sojk; sie unterscheidet sich von der typischen Unterart vor allem durch die einfarbige, fleckenlose Blattoberseite. 
4179938| The present paper sums up the knowledge obtained from the study of growth periodicity in the underground organs of Phragmites communis Trin. and from the analyses of different Phragmites stands in three regions of Czechoslovakia. A period of intense growth of Phragmites rhizomes was recorded in summer. Spring (end of April and beginning of May) and autumn (mainly September) seem to be the periods of most active root growth. During July and August, accumulation of reserve material takes place both in new and old rhizomes. In the stands investigated, the biomass of Phragmites rhizomes varied from
4181352|Two naturally coexisting grassland species - Centaurea jacea (often predominating) and Fragaria vesca (subordinate) were grown together in a pot experiment of factorial design, where competition and arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) inoculation were used as treatments. The effects of competition were one-sided, i.e. the mass of F. vesca decreased relatively more than that of C. jacea as a result of competition. The root and total mass of C. jacea increased with AM inoculation while F. vesca did not respond. The mass difference between C. jacea and F. vesca in a particular pot increased when plants were mycorrhizal, mostly due to the mass increase of C. jaceae. This can be explained by the differential response of these species to AM. We did not find any indirect indication of the interplant transfer of resources. The results of this experiment show the more unbalanced competition (larger differences in biomass) resulting from AM infection of plants.
4179678| In dieser Arbeit werden Ergebnisse phytoznologisch-kologischer Forschungen der nordund mittelmhrischen Carpinion-Gesellschaften zusammengefasst. Das westtschechoslowakische Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957 (mit drei Subassoziationen), das (vor)karpatische Caricipilosae-Carpinetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1964 (mit fnf Subassoziationen) und das schwach boreokontinentale Tilio-Carpinetum Traczyk 1962 (mit vier Subassoziationen) werden hier behandelt. Die Beziehungen der einzelnen Gesellschaften zu Gelndefaktoren, Bodentypen, einigen physikalischen und chemischen Bodeneigenschaften sowie die Verbreitung der wichtigsten Carpinion-Assoziationen in Mhren und ihr mathematischer Vergleich werden ebenfalls bercksichtigt. /// This paper gives the results of phytocoenological-ecological research of the oak-hornbeam communities of Central and Northern Moravia (incl. Moravian Silesia). The region of Moravia is especially interesting in this respect, because the boundaries of the area of the four important associations of the alliance Carpinion, namely the West-Czechoslovakian Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957, the (Sub)Carpathian Carici pilosae-Carpinetum R. et Z. Neuh., the slightly Boreocontinental Tilio-Carpinetum Traczyk 1962 and the Pannonian Primulae veris-Carpinetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1964 pass through Moravia. The potential distribution of these associations in Moravia is demonstrated in fig. 10. The phytosociological structure of the first three associations occurring in the studied area is to be seen in Tab. 1-3. The Tilio-Carpinetum Traczyk 1962 as a new association for Czechoslovakia is analysed in detail in this paper. New subassociations are described: Tilio-Carpinetum molinietosum arundinaceae (differential species: Betula pubescens, Carex brizoides, Frangula alnus, Lysimachia vulgaris, Molinia arundinacea, Pteridium aquilinum, Vaccinium myrtillus, or Melampyrum pratense), a community of acid, periodically moist soils, and Carici pilosae-Carpinetum primuletosum elatioris (differential species: Primula elatior, Ficaria verna, Galeobdolon vulgare, Paris quadrifolia, Astrantia major, Arum maculatum, Gagea lutea), a community of a transition character to Tilio-Carpinetum. The mathematical analysis shows a relatively high degree of floristic homogeneity of all associations (index about 50%), clear-cut floristic difference between Galio-Carpinetum and Tilio-Carpinetum, and relatively high degree of similarity between Galio-Carpinetum and Carici pilosae-Carpinetum, as well as between Carici pilosae-Carpinetum and Tilio-Carpinetum. The comparison of habitat factors confirmed coincidence between the described associations and/or subordinated units, and relevant soil types. All associations occur mostly on fresh to dry, rarely on moist soils, with favourable physical properties, the top-soil being loose or only moderately compact and relatively well aerated. The chemical soil properties vary considerably; they show only weak relation to the syntaxonomical units. On the average, the most favourable soil reaction and chemical properties of soils were found in Carici pilosae-Carpinetum, less favourable conditions in Galio-Carpinetum, and worst in Tilio-Carpinetum. The physical and chemical properties of the top-soil (humus horizons) are most important from the ecological point of view. The content of nutrients in the sub-soil horizons seems to be rather unimportant with regard to the floristic composition of the studied plant communities. A general description of the habitat of the studied communities is given on p. 252-254. 
4180641| Stratigraphic, pollen and macroscopic analyses of the Holocene limnic and peat sediments from the eabinec fish-pond (southern Bohemia, Czechoslovakia) are presented and evaluated. New information on the sedimentary processes (especially the middle Holocene stratigraphic anomaly), the development of aquatic and mire vegetation, the character of the forest cover and human activity in the eabinec area during the Preboreal, Boreal, Subboreal and Subatlantic has been obtained. 
4181081| The seedlings of twenty eight annual and perennial desert plants belonging to fifteen families were raised under controlled growth conditions and subjected to a range of tests. The water use efficiency, photosynthesis, extreme temperatures and drought tolerance were monitored. The results were discussed for their ecological significance as a basic information to applied research. Seedlings which were more tolerant to extreme high and low temperatures and drought were more capable of controlling water loss through better water use efficiency. At temperatures below 25 C, the annual plants had higher photosynthetic rate than perennials, whereas at higher temperatures, the perennials were advantaged. 
4179910| New nomenclatural combinations or new names are proposed for 80 taxa, including 75 for species and hybrids at specific level, three for subspecies and two for hybrid genera. Honorius S. F. Gray 1821 (type: Ornithogalum nutans L. 1753) is accepted as a taxonomically justified generic segregate of Ornithogalum L. Separation of Poterium L. from Sanguisorba L. at generic level is emphasized. Problems of taxonomic classification of morphotypes in Xanthium L. subg. Xanthium are briefly discussed. /// Im Artikel sind neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen vorgeschlagen, die vom Studium der Problematik einer natrlicheren Begrenzung von verschiedenen Gattungen hervorgegangen sind. In den meisten Fllen handelt es sich um Ergnzungen der frher angenommenen Gattungsgliederungen durch weitere Arten; so z. B. mehr als zwei neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen sind bei den Gattungen Acosta, Anemonastrum, Anemonoides, Pistolochia, Pseudolysimachion und Tephroseris vorgeschlagen, einzelne dann auch bei den weiteren Gattungen. Als eine neue Gattung ist hier die vergessene Gattung Honorius S. F. Gray 1821 fr einen Teil der Gattung Ornithogalum L. mit der Typus-Art Ornithogalum nutans L. angenommen, und zwar auf Grund der Unterschiede in der Infloreszenzstruktur, in dem Bau der Staubgefsse und der Zwiebeln, wie auch in der Chromosomengrundzahl. In Hinsicht auf die wesentlichen Unterschieden, die sich auf die Pollenmorphologie, Bestubungstyp und unterschiedlichen Mosaik in der morphologisch-evolutionistischen Charakteristik beziehen, sind Poterium L. und Sanguisorba L. als selbstndige Gattungen klassifiziert. Als Namen fr Hybridengattungen sind  Calapodium = Calamintha  Clinopodium und  Honogalum = Honorius  Ornithogalum vorgeschlagen. In Xanthium L. subg. Xanthium (Umkreis von adventiven und nach Kreuzungen neu entwickelter Morphotype) stellt sich der Autor fr das Unterscheiden der deutlichen Varianten als Kleinarten, so dass ihr weiteres Studium ermglicht wre. Fr einen von diesen Taxa - X. "riparium" - wird ein neuer Name, X. ripicola, vorgeschlagen. 
4180370| Zwei neue Arten der bisher monotypischen Gattung Pocsia Vzda werden beschrieben: P. septemseptata (sp. n.) und P. dispersa (sp. n.). Ein Bestimmungsschlssel aller bekannten Pocsia-Arten wird vorgelegt. Die systematische Stellung der Gattung innerhalb der pyrenocarpen Flechten bleibt weiterhin ungeklrt. /// In a collection of foliicolous lichens from Zare, two new species of the genus Pocsia Vzda have been found: P. septemseptata (sp. n.) and P. dispersa (sp. n.). Both new species are very closely related to the type species, P. marattiae Vzda, however, they add nothing substancial to the hitherto problematic postion of this genus in the system of Ascolichens. The two new species were also found in a collection of lichens from the Republic of Guinea (W-Africa). A key for determination of all known species of the genus Pocsia is given. 
4181253|Chromosome numbers are reported for 14 species collected in Cuba. The first chromosome records are reported for Albizzia cubana Britton et Wilson (2n=26), Atkinsia cubensis (Britton et Wilson) Howard (2n=26), Caesalpinia violacea (Mill.) Standl. (2n=24), Colubrina ferruginosa Brongn. (2n=24). Chromosome numbers of the following species were confirmed: Albizzia lebbeck (L.) Benth. (2n=26), Canavalia maritima (Aubl.) Thouars (2n=22), Casuarina equisetifolia Forst. (2n=18), Cedrela mexicana M.J. Roem. (2n=56), Delonix regia (Bojer) Raf. (2n=28), Guazuma tomentosa H.B.K. (2n=16), Lysiloma bahamense Benth. (2n=26), L. latisiliqua (L.) Benth. (2n=26), Samanea saman (Jacq.) Merrill (2n=26), Thespesia populnea (L.) Soland (2n=26).
4180463| Female plants of Petasites fragrans were detected in material imported from Algeria, and they are now cultivated in Prhonice. Their importance for the determination of the indigenous distribution of the species was evaluated: all localities in Europe are secondary and only male plants grow there. 
4179725| Eine infragenerische Gliederung des ganzen Artenbereiches der Gattung Agrimonia L. wurde bisher von niemandem vorgenommen. Im vorigen (Skalick 1971) und im vorliegenden Teil werden zwei ausschliesslich in Amerika verbreiteten Agrimonia-Serien beschrieben. Die Arten der neubeschriebenen Serie Agrimonia L. ser. Tuberosae Skalick sind nur in Nordamerika verbreitet. Sie zeigen eine gewisse hnlichkeit mit einigen Arten der Serie Agrimonia L. ser. Pilosae Skalick. Die Verwandtschaftsbeziehungen innerhalb der Serie Tuberosae werden durch die neue Gliederung in zwei Subserien, und zwar die neue Subserie Rostellatae neben der nominaten Subserie, ausgedrckt. Weiter folgen die Bestimmungstabellen der Arten der behandelten Serie, sodann die systematische Bearbeitung einzelner Arten mit Verbreitungskarten. /// This is an extension of a previous paper discussing ser. Parvifiorae Skalicky of the genus Agrimonia L. Both the papers aim at an elucidation of the infrageneric classification of Agrimonia. Series with predominantly Eurasiatic distribution will be dealt with in subsequent studies. A new series, ser. Tuberosae Skalick, containing subseries Tuberosae and Rostellatae, is described in the present paper. Taxonomic, chorological and nomenclatural notes on the species concerned are provided. A. microcarpa Wallr. as circumscribed here includes all of A. platycarpa Wallr.; all Mexican material (A. pringlei Rydb.) is excluded. 
4180476| In the years 1976-1981 we studied chromosome counts and karyotypic formulae of the following 29 species of plants from 41 localities (of these 6 from Bohemia, 32 from Moravia, 3 from Slovakia): Batrachium baudotii (Godron) F. W. Schultz, Chenopodium rubrum L., C. polyspermum L., C. murale L., C. ficifolium Sm., C. opulifolium Schrader ex DC. in Lam. et DC., C. strictum Roth [subsp. strictum, subsp. glaucophyllum (Aellen) Aellen in Just et Aellen, subsp. striatiforme Uotila], Arenaria grandiflora L., Illecebrum verticillatum L., Spergula morisonii Boreau in Duchartre, Spergularia marginata (DC. in Lam. et DC.) Kittel, S. marina (L.) Griseb., S. rubra (L.) J. et C. Presl, Silene conica L., Sisymbrium loeselii L., S. volgense Bieb. ex E. Fourn., S. orientale L. [subsp. orientale, subsp. macroloma (A. Pomel) Dvok], S. officinale (L.) Scop., Descurainia sophia (L.) Webb ex Prantl in Engler et Prantl, Nasturtium officinale R. Br. in Aiton, Barbarea arcuata (Opiz in Presl J. et C.) Reichenb., Lunaria annua L., Soldanella montana Willd., S. carpatica Vierh. in Urban et Graebner, Lotus tenuis Waldst. et Kit. ex Willd., L. uliginosus Schkuhr, Trigonella monspeliaca L., Geranium sibiricum L., Lactuca tatarica (L.) C. A. Meyer. 
4180929| The present study depicts the presence of a gradient in the morphological characters of Thymelaea hirsuta (L.) Endl. leaves which correlated with the environmental gradient prevailing in the Western Mediterranean region of Egypt. The less arid and more calcareous habitats harbour individuals with obtuse and gentle curved leaf apices and gentle involute leaf margins. With the increase of aridity and decrease of CaCO
4181084|One new tribe (Telipogoneae) and nine new subtribes (Bartholininae, Cheirostylidinae, Elleanthinae, Epidendrinae, Herminiinae, Isochilinae, Oberoniinae, Phragmipediinae, Thecopodinae) are described. The status changes for five other taxa are proposed.
4179506| Die vorliegende Studie enthlt Ergebnisse einer taxonomischen Revision der lichenisierten Fungi (Flechten) der Gattung Thelopsis Nyl. Die Gattung umfasst 6 Arten: Th. flaveola Arnold, Th. isiaca Stiz., Th. lojkana (Poetsch ex Arnold) Nyl., Th. inordinata Nyl., Th. melathelia Nyl. und Th. rubella Nyl. Bei der Revision waren weder nomenklatorische nderungen noch Beschreibungen neuer Taxa ntig. Nher wird die systematische Stellung von Thelopsis diskutiert. Im Vergleich mit den Hauptgruppen der lichenisierten Pyrenocarpi nimmt Thelopsis, zusammen mit den taxonomisch noch nicht richtig eingereihten Arten "Clathroporina" heterospora Zahlbr. und "Microglaena" rosea Serv., eine systematisch bedeutend isolierte Stellung ein. Demgegenber existieren reale phylogenetische Beziehungen von Thelopsis zur discocarpen Gattung Ramonia Stiz. (Familie Thelotremataceae s. ampl.). Es wird vorgeschlagen, die Gattung Thelopsis in die Familie Thelotremataceae einzugliedern. /// Le prsent travail expose les rsultats d'une rvision taxonomique des champignons lichniss appartenant au genre Thelopsis. Dans la partie gnrale, l'auteur dcrit brivement la morphologie et l'anatomie de ces derniers et indique sommairement les caractristiques des principaux types de stations o ils se rencontrent dans la nature, ainsi que leur rpartition gographique. Le problme de la position systmatique du genre Thelopsis est trait de plus prs. Dans ce but est adopte une nouvelle classification des principaux types de Pyrnocarpes lichniss, base sur les caractres de la paroi des asques, de leur appareil apical, des paraphysoides, des priphyses et des spores. Cette nouvelle classification, que l'auteur prsente comme provisoire, s'loigne notablement,  beaucoup d'gards, des conceptions qu'on avait jusqu'ici de la systmatique de ce groupe. De la comparaison de ces points de vue diffrents on arrive en ce qui concerne le genre Thelopsis, aux conclusions suivantes: 1. Le genre Thelopsis Nyl., les espces "Microglaena" rosea Serv. et "Clathroporina" heterospora Zahlbr., ainsi que la famille des Porinaces (s. str.) telle qu'elle a t nouvellement dlimite dans ce travail, constituent, en raison de leurs asques unituniqus et de leurs vritables paraphyses, un groupe trs isol phylogntiquement du reste des Pyrnocarpes lichniss, ordinairement bituniqus. 2. C'est avec les espces "Microglaena" heterospora (et vraisemblablement aussi d'autres espces de Clathroporina) que le genre Thelopsis prsente le plus de parent; et peut-tre sera-t-il possible ultrieurement d'ajouter a ce genre, ces espces qui par contre n'ont aucune affinit avec les Microglaena et Clathroporina typiques. 3. En ce qui concerne la structure des fructifications, il existe une grande concordance entre toutes les espces de Thelopsis, "Microglaena" rosea et "Clathroporina" heterospora, d'une part, et les Discocarpes du genre Ramonia Stiz. (Thlotremataces s. ampl.), d'autre part. Du point de vue taxonomique le seul caractre qui spare ces deux groupes est le mode d'ouverture de leurs fructifications. Tandis que chez Thelopsis l'orifice reste constamment punctiforme, chez Ramonia celuici est d'abord punctiforme, puis son bord se dchire en formant des sortes de lobes qui se recourbent en mettant finalement  nu l'hymnium. Cette grande concordance, qui ne peut s'expliquer que par d'troites relations phylogntiques, autorise  classer le genre Thelopsis et les deux espces voisines dans la famille des Thlotrmataces s. ampl. Dans la partie spciale de ce travail l'auteur fournit la nomenclature et la description des 6 espces de Thelopsis connues jusqu'ici, ainsi que de brves indications sur les caractristiques des stations o ces espces ont t trouves, sur la rpartition gnrale de celles-ci et sur les chantillons tudis. En supplment les deux espces voisines "Microglaena" rosea et "Clathroporina" heterospora sont traites de la mme manire. Le texte est complt par 16 planches de dessins schmatiques  la plume relatifs  l'anatomie de toutes les espces de Thelopsis, des deux espces prcdentes et de quelques Pyrnocarpes lichniss typiques qui sont tudis en vue de rsoudre le problme de la position systmatique du genre Thelopsis. /// The present work gives the results of a taxonomic revision of the lichenized fungi belonging to the genus Thelopsis. In the general part the author briefly describes the morphology and anatomy of the species of the genus, outlines the characteristics of the principal types of habitats in which the plants are found, and gives information on their geographic distribution. The problem of the systematic position of the genus Thelopsis is discussed in detail. In this regard, a new classification of the principal types of the lichenized pyrenocarpic fungi is adopted, an arrangement based on the characteristics of the wall of the asci, the apical apparatus of the asci, the paraphyses, the periphyses, and the spores. This new classification, which is presented as provisional, is notably different in many respects from the concepts previously held regarding the systematics of this group. The following conclusions concerning Thelopsis can be made: 1. The genus Thelopsis Nyl., the species "Microglaena" rosea Serv. and "Clathroporina" heterospora Zahlbr. as well as the family Porinaceae (sens. str.) such as it has been newly delimited in this study, constitute all together, by virtue of their unitunicate asci and their true paraphyses, a group phylogenetically very isolated from the rest of the lichenized pyrenocarpic fungi, which are usually bitunicate. 2. The genus Thelopsis is most closely related to the species "Microglaena" rosea and "Clathroporina" heterospora (and probably to other species of Clathroporina) and it might be possible eventually to place them in Thelopsis since they have no affinity whatever with the typical species of Microglaena and Clathroporina. 3. In the structure of the fruits there is a great agreement among all the species of Thelopsis, "Microglaena" rosea, and "Clathroporina" heterospora on the one hand and the discocarpic fungi of the genus Ramonia Stiz. (Thelotremataceae sens. ampl.) on the other hand. From the point of view of taxonomy, the only character which separates the two groups is the manner by which the fruits open. While in Thelopsis the orifice consistently remains punctiform, in Ramonia it is punctiform at first and then its margin tears and forms lobe-like structures which recurve and finally expose the naked hymenium. This broad correlation of characters, which can be explained only as resulting from close phylogenetic relationships, justifies a classification of the genus Thelopsis and the two closely related species in the family Thelotremataceae sens. ampl. In the special part of this work the author gives the nomenclature and the description of the six known species of Thelopsis, brief notes on the characteristics of the habitats in which the species are found, the general ranges and the specimens studied. The two related species "Microglaena" rosea and "Clathroporina" heterospora are treated in the same way. Sixteen plates of schematic line drawings are provided relating to the anatomy of all the species of Thelopsis, of the two allied species, and of several typical lichenized pyrenocarpic fungi studied with the view of clarifying the systematic position of the genus Thelopsis. 
4180856|The seeds of 115 species in eighteen genera of the family Portulacaceae were examined with the scanning electron microscope. Longitudinal sections of seeds of representatives of all the genera were examined with the light microscope. Two broad groups based on shape of the seeds, ornamentation of the external surface of their testa, and the position of the embryo relative to the endosperm were recognised. The first group comprising three genera: Anacampseros L., Grahamia Gillies and Talinopsis A. Gray, have seeds which are pyriform with wings and trichomes, and an embryo that is more or less parallel to the endosperm, while the second of fifteen genera: Calandrinia H.B.K., Calyptridium Nuttall, Calyptrotheca Gilg, Ceraria Pearson et Stephens, Claytonia L., Lenzia Philippi, Lewisia Pursh, Lyallia Hooker fil., Montia L., Portulaca L., Portulacaria Jacquin, Silvaea Philippi, Talinella Baillon, Talinum Adanson, and Wangerinia Franz, are reniform without wings and with an embryo that is horse-shoe shaped around the endosperm.
4180609|Energy structure and dynamics was studied at the primary producer level in a tropical grassland community which was earlier subjected to burning. The ecological efficiency value was at a higher level in the burning site as compared to control.
4181321| The results of a taxonomic study of Cardamine amara L. from the Carpathians and Pannonia are presented. Two subspecies, Cardamine amara L. subsp. amara and C. amara subsp. opicii (J. Presl & C. Presl) elak., are shown to occur in the area studied. Full synonymy, descriptions, chromosome numbers, taxonomic history, distribution data, and ecological notes are provided. 
4181554| Six transects were established on the edges of two deciduous forests near Krosno (Carpathian Foothills) to compare the species richness pattern of vascular plants, bryophytes and fungi. The transects had the shape of a cross with one arm 10 m along the forest edge and the other across the edge, 50 m into the forest interior and 12 m into the grassland. They consisted of 2  2 quadrats. The strongest edge effects were recorded for bryophyte, shrub and tree species richness, the weakest for herbaceous plant species richness. Overall vascular plant species richness and herbaceous species richness were higher in grassland than in the forest and peaked in grassland, 3 m from the forest edge. The shrub species richness was highest 1 m from the edge (in the forest) and the tree species richness 3 m from edge. Bryophyte species richness had roughly the same level across the grassland and within the first several meters of the forest, except for the 2 m zone on the edge itself where species richness was as low as in the forest interior. Fungi species richness was low in the grassland and on the forest edge and rose dramaticaly a few meters from the edge, remaining at the same level within the forest. The species composition across the forest-grassland border was analysed using detrended correspondence analysis. It revealed that in the case of bryophytes the increase in species richness did not correspond to a change in species composition, such as might have been caused by a general increase in bryophyte density. 
4179536|A new fescue (Festuca karadagensis) has been described from Iraq. It differs from other taxa of the sect. Ovinae, especially by its big spikelets, very rough leaves and hirtulous rhachilla.
4179684| Boerhavia elegans Choisy ex DC. aus gypten und Boerhavia erecta L. aus Sudan werden zum erstenmal angegeben. Weiter wird eine neue Unterart beschrieben, und zw.: Carduncellus mareoticus (Del.) Hanelt subsp. deserticolus. /// From the territory of Egypt, viz from the Gebel Elba Mountains, the species Boerhavia elegans Choisy ex DC. has been recorded (for the time being with a question mark). The herbarium specimens (CAI) from this mountain range, however, in their morphological characters correspond to the plants edited in Schimper's exsiccata, according to which this species was described. As a result of the morphological analysis, it is evident that the specific value of this taxon is fully justified. From Sudan (province Dinder) numerous plants belonging to B. erecta L. were found in the herbaria of CAI. This species had not previously been mentioned from the territory of Sudan. It is the only representative of section Pyramidatae known hitherto in this part of Africa. From Egypt, namely from the area limited by the Siva Oasis, the depression of Qatara and the Mediterranean Sea, a new subspecies of Carduncellus mareoticus (Del.) Hanelt has been described; it differs from the nominate subspecies first of all by its general habitus (see the diagnosis). 
4181440| Short-lived plant communities of ruderal habitats in North Korea were studied using the Zrich-Montpellier approach. The Beckmannio eruciformis-Potentilletum costatae, the Daturo tatulae--Siegesbeckietum pubescentis, the Humulo japonicae-Chenopodietum albi and the Cosmo-Humulion japonicae were described as new. 
4181016|Changes in chemical composition of autochthonous plant litter undergoing decomposition in litter mesh-bags exposed in a transect across four vegetational zones of a fishpond littoral were estimated during the spring, summer and winter season. The highest decomposition rate was found in all four zones in spring, the lowest one in winter. The decomposition was faster in the two aquatic than in the two terrestrial zones in the spring and the summer season. The litter was enriched with nitrogen and released potassium in all locelities and seasons. The uptake or release of other mineral constituents appeared to be specific for each zone and to depend on the season of the year.
4180587|Myriophyllum spicatum has been discovered in the Nile valley during the past decade. The rapid colonization seems to be influenced by changes in the Nile water regime after the building of the High Dam at Aswan.
4181423|Plants of the common reed (Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud.) were treated with high doses of nitrogen in an experiment performed in a sand culture and lasting one vegetation period. Nitrogen treatment resulted in alterations of growth; the increased growth of rhizomes and stalks was connected with production of significantly shorter roots. The differences in root growth were connected with changes in the internal root structure. In rhizome-borne roots, treatment with high nitrogen reduced the formation of aerenchyma and lignified layers in subapical regions. No substantial differences were observed in starch occurrence in the roots under the two treatments.
4181172|A taxonomic survey is given of eight species of the South and Central European group with the Taraxacum sect. Palustria. Descriptions and figures characterise four taxa treated in more detail (T. abrotanum and T. insolitum of them are described as new to science from Greece); all the eight members of the group are given synonymy and typification.
4181278|The Park Grass Experiment at Rothamsted consists of a series of fertilizer treatments which have been applied to a species-rich hay meadow annually since 1856. Detailed botanical analyses of the plots between 1862 and 1992 were classified to one of the National Vegetation Classification (NVC) communities using the similarity measured by Czekanowski coefficient using computer program MATCH. Results indicated that "control" unfertilized plots were a relatively stable Cynosurus cristatus-Centaurea nigra dicotyledon-rich grassland. However mineral fertilized plots moved towards a species-rich Arrhenatherum elatius grassland MG1e after 50-80 years and remained there. Plots receiving nitrogen fertilizer moved first to MG1e then on to a Lolium perenne-Alopecurus pratensis grassland MG7D. Perhaps the most interesting plot was one which received a low rate of the soil acidifying ammonium sulphate fertilizer; the species composition changed towards a MG7D (Lolium perenne-Alopecurus pratensis) community between 1856 and 1903 but since then a liming treatment has been applied to part of the plot and the species composition on that part has recovered to a MG5 community resembling the control plots, taking 70-90 years to do so.
4179655| Es werden die phytoznologische Charakteristik der Pflanzengesellschaften der Sanddnenvegetation des unteren und mittleren Dnjeprstromgebietes und der Vorschlag einer neuen Gliederung der Sandvegetation kontinentalen Ursprungs im europischen Raum unterbreitet. Im Rahmen der Klasse Festucetea vaginatae So 1968 emend. Vich. und der Ordnung Festucetalia vaginatae So 1957 wird fr die pontischen Sandsteppenrasen der Verband Festucion beckeri foed. nova, fr die Sandtrockenrasen des sarmatischen Gebietes, die dem Verband Koelerion glaucae Volk 1931 angehren, die Ordnung Festuco-Astragaletalia arenarii ordo nova neu aufgestellt. Aus Festucion beckeri werden folgende Assoziationen und Subassoziationen angefhrt: Centaureo odessanae-Festucetum beckeri ass. nova; Linario odorae-Agropyretum dasyanthi ass. nova; Centaureo brevicepsis-Festucetum beckeri ass. nova mit den subassoziationen typicum subass. nova, inuletosum sabuletorum subass. nova, salicetosum rosmarinifoliae subass. nova; Centaureo borysthenicae-Festucetum beckeri ass. nova mit den Subassoziationen dianthetosum squarrosi subass. nova und dianthetosum pseudosquarrosi subass. nova. Das Koelerion glaucae reprsentieren Thymo angustifolii-Festucetum beckeri ass. nova mit den Subassoziationen typicum subass. nova und hirochloetosum stepposae subass. nova; Diantho borbasii-Agrostetum syreistschikovii ass. nova prov. Den Verband Corynephorion canescentis Klika 1931 emend. R. Tx. 1962 vertritt die einzige Assoziation Veronico dillenii-Corynephoretum Passarge 1960 emend. Hohenester 1967 mit den Subassoziationen typicum subass. nova und polytrichetosum piliferi subass. nova. /// The present paper is a phytocenological study of the sand dune vegetation of the steppe, forest-steppe and of the southern part of the forest zone of the lower and middle Dnieper basin from the Black Sea coast and contiguous islands in the south, to a broad region north of Kiev. At the same time, attention was paid to syntaxonomic problems of the sand vegetation of continental origin in the European area. The suggestion for a new division of the sand vegetation of continental origin is based on the verified supposition that plant communities of the alliances Festucion vaginatae So 1929 and Koelerion glaucae Volk 1931 originate in the Pontic region of South-East Europe and that they are evolutionary derivates of the sand steppe vegetation shifted to the west. From this point of view, continental (subcontinental) sand dune plant communities are classified in the class Festucetea vaginatae So 1968 emend. Vicherek. Taking into account the areas of plants which assert themselves in the composition of plant communities of the sand vegetation, and the geographical distribution of the individual communities, the class is divided into two orders which give a true picture not only of the synchorology but also of their epiontological character. The order Festucetalia vaginatae So 1957 includes communities of the sand steppe of the Pontic and Pannonian regions. Its alliance Festucion beckeri Vicherek foed. nova is that of the Pontic area; the alliance Festucion vaginatae So 1929 is an endemic unit of the Pannonian area. For the Sarmate group of sand vegetation the order Festuco-Astragaletalia arenarii Vicherek ordo nova is delimited so far by the single alliance Koelerion glaucae Volk 1931. In the territory investigated, besides communities of Festucion beckeri and Koelerion glaucae of continental origin, I had the opportunity to analyze communities from the group of the Atlantic (Subatlantic) type of wandering dune vegetation of the alliance Corynephorion canescentis Klika 1931 emend. R. Tx. 1962, which reach their eastern-most boundary in the area north of Kiev. The following associations of Festucion beckeri and their lower syntaxa are quoted in the present paper: 1. Centaureo odessanae-Festucetum beckeri Vicherek ass. nova, an endemic association of the sand steppe of shore sand dunes of Black (? Azov) Sea. It has been found only on Tendra island. 2. Linario odorae-Agropyretum dasyanthi Vicherek ass. nova is a pioneer association of the wandering sands of the steppe zone of the Dnieper river basin. This association has been recorded from numerous localities. 3. Centaureo brevicepsis-Festucetum beckeri Vicherek ass. nova, confined to a narrow area in the southern part of the lower stream of Dnieper from the Black Sea coast to Nova Kachovka in the north, is divided into a series of subunits whose phytocenoses are contingent in their development on dissimilarities in some partial components of the ecotope: subass. typicum Vicherek subass. nova with var. typicum Vicherek var. nova and var. Genista borysthenica Vicherek var. nova, subass. inuletosum sabuletorum Vicherek subass. nova, and subass. salicetosum rosmarinifoliae Vicherek subass. nova. 4. Centaureo borysthenicae-Festucetum beckeri Vicherek ass. nova, an association of broad distribution in the steppe and in the greater part of the forest-steppe zone is phytogeographically connected with the preceding association. The absolute northern boundary has been set in the environs of the townlet of Kanev where the northern boundary of the area of the Festucion beckeri ends in the Dnieper river basin. Within the scope of this association the following subunits are differentiated: subass. dianthetosum squarrosi Vicherek subass. nova with var. typicum Vicherek var. nova, var. Jurinea paczoskiana Vicherek var. nova, and var. Jurinea cyanoides Vicherek var. nova, and subass. dianthetosum pseudosquarrosi Vicherek subass. nova. Koelerion glaucae is represented by the following associations: 5. Thymo angustifolii-Festucetum beckeri Vicherek ass. nova which extends in the northern part of the forest-steppe zone from the townlet Riev and in the southern part of the forest zone north of Kiev. The absolute northern boundary of this association has not been established. Within the scope of this association the following subassociations have been differentiated: subass. typicum Vicherek subass. nova, and subass. hirochloetosum stepposae Vicherek subass. nova. 6. Diantho borbasii-Agrostetum syreistschikovii Vicherek ass. nova prov. is a provisionally established association. It has been found at a single locality on the island "Truchaniv ostriv" where the river Desna flows into the Dnieper. Wandering dune communities, occurring mainly in the Atlantic (Subatlantic) region of Europe, are fixed in the forest zone north of Kiev. From the group of the communities of the Cyronephorion canescentis the following association has been recorded: 7. Veronico dillenii-Corynephoretum Passarge 1960 emend. Hohenester 1967 which is an association of subcontinental East Europe. This association has been found in the following subassociations: subass. typicum Vicherek subass. nova, and subass. polytrichetosum piliferi Vicherek subass. nova. The phytocenological diagnoses of these syntaxa according to the floristic composition and according to their geographical distribution are supplemented by an orientation statement of some chemical properties of the soils in the surface layer 0 - 5 cm. The values found are well-balanced for the communities of all alliances studied. With the exception of sands from the shore zone of islands, where fragments of shells of sea animals are admixed, the sands have an acid reaction (pH 5.1-5.5), with a marked absence of CaCO
4180974|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat et Moravec 1990), the present work collects the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1987. The list comprises 92 names.
4181252| Chromosome numbers are given of 15 species of the genus Hieracium L. s. str., representing seven species groups (in the sense of Flora Europaea, roughly corresponding to Zahn's "species principales") from the Krkonoe Mts., N. Bohemia and SW Poland. For the first time, chromosome numbers are reported for H. melanocephalum Tausch (2n=27), H. tubulosum Tausch (2n=36), H. schustleri Zlatnk (2n=36), H. fritzei F. Schultz (2n=27), H. rohlenae Zlatnk (2n=27), H. nigrescens Willd. (2n=36), H. decipiens Tausch (2n=36), H. atrellum Juxip in Schischkin et Bobrov (2n=27), H. subnigrescens (Fries ex Norrlin) Dahlst. (2n=36), H. sudeticum Sternberg (2n=36), H. pedunculare Tausch (2n=36), H. glandulosodentatum Uechtr. (2n=36), H. wimmeri Uechtr. (2n=27). In Hieracium alpinum L. s. str. the number 2n=27 has been confirmed. The results show a high proportion of tetraploid taxa; no diploids have been found. 
4180797|Succession in a herbaceous vegetation developed on a site formerly occupied by a Quercetum petraeae-cerris forest is described and discussed. The deforestation took place in 1979. In the clearing 15 sample plots of 1 m
4179801| New nomenclatural combinations are proposed, resulting from the adoption of a narrower concept of the generic classification unit or from necessary changes of the taxonomic rank in several taxa. A new genus - Anemonidium (Spach) Holub - is proposed in Ranunculaceae. Four genera are accepted, including Chamaepitys Hill (Ajuga L. p. p.), Cota J. Gay (Anthemis L. p. p.), Euchiton Cass. (Gnaphalium L. p. p.) and Rostraria Trin. (Koeleria Pers. p. p. + Trisetum Pers. p. p.). Genistella Ortega is preferred to Chamaespartium Adans. In all 95 new combinations are proposed (83 for species, 11 for subspecies, 1 for a variety), including 21 in Cota, 13 in Rostraria, 11 in Chamaepitys and 10 in Euchiton. /// Whrend einer Revision von verschiedenen Gruppen der Phanerogamenpflanzen zeigte sich die Notwendigkeit, manche neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen vorzuschlagen. Meistens sind sie aufgrund einer engeren Auffassung der Gattungsklassifizierungseinheit begrndet. Folgende Gattungen sind in diesem Beitrag wieder aufgenommen: Chamaepitys Hill (Ajuga L. p. p.), Cota J. Gay (Anthemis L. p. p.), Euchiton Cass. (Gnaphalium L. p. p.) und Rostraria Trin. (Koeleria Pers. p. p. + Trisetum Pers. p. p.) Weiter wurde eine neue monotypische Gattung in der Gruppe von Anemone s. l. vorgeschlagen, u. z. Anemonidium (Spach) Holub fr Anemone dichotoma L. Weitere nomenklatorische Kombinationen sind mit den Gattungsnamen Elytrigia Desv., Genistella Ortega und Tephroseris (Reichenb.) Reichenb. vorgeschlagen. Die nomenklatorische Problematik von Genistella Ortega 1773 und Chamaespartium Adans. 1763 wurde gelst; aufgrund des Studiums wurde Genistella als der richtige Gattungsname fr die Arten von Genista mit Phylloiden anerkannt. Einzelne neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen wurden aufgrund taxonomischer Transfere der Arten zu anderen Gattungen vorgeschlagen; solche sind in Acetosa, Aconogonon, Avenochloa, Bromopsis, Calathiana, Chamaecytisus, Colymbada, Dichodon, Eremogone und Tithymalus. Manche neue Kombinationen entstanden bei nderung der taxonomischen Rangstufe der betreffenden Taxa, hauptschlich wenn Unterarten zu Arten erhoben wurden (Aremonia pouzarii, Dactylorhiza ochroleuca, Genista undulata, Stenactis septentrionalis) und speziell dann, wenn Unterschiede in der Ploidiestufe existieren (Avenochloa occidentalis, Elytrigia flaccidifolia, Erysimum cazorlense, Galium vivianum, Helictotrichon planifolium). 
4181397| Variation in the number of species was studied in a subthermophilous grassland at a scale of 0.05  0.05 m during a 5-year period. The observed variance of species richness (VSR) was compared with a null model based on random distribution of species over a set of squares. It was found that distribution of species richness had more values than expected around the mean and less values at the "shoulders". Both tails fell within the predicted limits. Application of the procedures removing spatial dependence (random shifts, rotation/reflection method by Palmer & van der Maarel 1995) and environmental heterogeneity (patch model by Watkins & Wilson 1992) did not change the observed pattern. Using simulations in which the number of clumps and clumping intensity were manipulated it was found that the effect of the clumped spatial pattern on VSR results in a wide range of variances. Both variance excess and variance deficit were found more frequently than expected under the null model. To test the effect of the limitation to the number of individuals per square a null model was developed which included the observed number of plant shoots per square, the observed distribution of the number of shoots belonging to individual species per square and the observed spatial distribution of the shoots. The observed VSR was still lower than that produced by the null model. Therefore, it is concluded that at a scale of 0.05  0.05 m plant species combine in a non-random way in the studied grassland. It is suggested that the shape of left and right "shoulders" of the species richness distribution may be caused by different factors, such as positive and negative covariance between species, respectively. Their simultaneous impact can generate the observed pattern in species richness. 
4179464|The name Dryopteris borreri Newman 1854 was not validly published in the specific rank. A new name Dryopteris pseudo-mas (Wollaston) Holub et Pouzar 1967 is proposed as the correct name for this European species.
4179672| Chromosome counts of the following 30 taxa (106 populations) are given: Betonica officinalis (2n = 16); Bidens frondosus (2n = 48); Calamagrostis arundinacea (2n = 28 + 0-2B); Dianthus carthusianorum subsp. latifolius (2n = 30); Festuca gigantea (2n = 42, 42 + 2B); Hypericum perforatum (2n = 32); Koeleria macrantha (2n = 28); Kohlrauschia prolifera (2n = 30); Lilium martagon (2n = 24 + 0-2B); Melica ciliata (2n = 18); Poa remota (2n = 14); Ranunculus polyanthemos (2n = 16); R. sardous subsp. sardous (2n = 16); Roegneria canina (2n = 28 + 0-1B); Rudbeckia laciniata (2n = 76); Scabiosa canescens (2n = 16); Serratula tinctoria (2n = 22); Seseli elatum subsp. heterophyllum var. beckii (2n = 18); S. hippomarathrum (2n = 20); Thlaspi caerulescens subsp. tatrense (2n = 14); Trifolium alpestre (2n = 16); T. arvense (2n = 14); T. medium (2n = 79, 80 + 0-2B, 82); T. rubens (2n = 16); Veronica officinalis subsp. alpestris (2n = 36); Vincetoxicum hirundinaria (2n = 22); Vulpia bromoides (2n = 14); Zerna benekenii (2n = 28); Z. monoclada (2n = 28 + 0-8B); Z. ramosa (2n = 42). Remarks on taxonomy, nomenclature and chorology for some of these taxa are given. /// Die Chromosomenzahlen von 30 Taxa (106 Lokal-Populationen) sind in diesem Beitrage ange geben. Die Aufzhlung der behandelten Taxa siehe in der englischen Zusammenfassung. I. Karyologische Ergebnisse 1. Die Chromosomenzahlen von Thlaspi caerulescens subsp. tatrense (2n = 14) und Veronica officinalis subsp. alpestris (2n = 34) sind zum erstenmal bestimmt worden. 2. Abweichende Chromosomenzahlen 2n = 79 und 2n = 82 von einem aneuploiden Charakter sind bei der Art Trifolium medium gefunden worden, deren normale Chromosomenzahl 2n = 80 ist. 3. Die Chromosomenzahl von Trifolium pseudomedium Hausskn. (= T. medium subsp. balcanicum) - 2n = 64, 65 - ist vorlufig angegeben; oktoploide Chromosomenzahl wurde auch bei einigen slowakischen Trifolium medium agg. - Populationen gefunden. 4. Die Karyotypen von folgenden Taxa wurden nher studiert: Ranunculus polyanthemos; R. sardous subsp. sardous; Scabiosa canescens; Thlaspi caerulescens subsp. tatrense. II. Taxonomische Ergebnisse 1. Kohlrauschia Kunth und Zerna Panzer restr. Nevskij werden als selbstndige Gattungen, von Petrorhagia Link, bzw. Bromus L. verschieden, angenommen. 2. Auf Grund der abweichenden Frchte und der geographischen Verteilung ist Ranunculus sardous in zwei Unterarten aufgeteilt. 3. Eine neue Unterart von Veronica officinalis - subsp. alpestris - in den Gebirgen von Bhmen vorkommend, wird anerkannt. Bemerkungen ber die Taxonomie sind noch zu den Arten Seseli elatum, Zerna benekenii, Z. monoclada und Z. ramosa hinzugefgt. III. Nomenklatorische Ergebnisse 1. Ranunculus sardous wird mit der Unterart typisiert, die im stlichen Teil des Areals der Art vorkommt. 2. Der gltige Name fr Vincetoxicum officinale Moench 1794 ist V.hirundinaria Medic. 1790. 3. Der Name Bromus asper Murr. 1770 kann nicht fr B. benekenii bentzt werden, weil er einen berflssigen Namen von B. ramosus Huds. 1762 darstellt. Bemerkungen zur Nomenklatur sind noch den Arten Seseli osseum und Zerna monoclada beigefgt. 
4179534| In der Arbeit wird die Trennung der hochmontanen Pflanzen Sdosteuropas, bisher Poa cenisia All. oder Poa contracla Nyr. benannt, von der in den Alpen wachsenden Art Poa cenisia All. begrndet. Die Pflanzen des Balkans und der Sdkarpaten werden als Poa psvchrophila Boiss. et Heldr. bezeichnet. Weiterhin wird der taxonomische Wert der Art Poa oreophila Boiss. et Helder. angefhrt. Es wird die Vermutung ausgesprochen dass Poa cenisia All. sehr wahrscheinlich nur an die Alpen gebunden ist. /// The plants from S. E. Europe and the S. Carpathian determined as P. cenisia or P. contracta are identical with plants from Turkey. All these plants differ from P. cenisia All. s. str. The correct name for S. E. European and S. Carpathian plants is P. psvchrophila Boiss. et Heldr. P. cenisia All. s. str. is very probably restricted only to the Alps. The plants from the Pyrenees (P. fontquerii Br.-Bl.) differ from P. cenisia All. s. str. and they are in a certain relationship to the Balkan plants. 
4181353|Changes in plant community structure after changes in some aspect of the environment such as nutrients or grazing is often ascribed to changes in competitive relationships among the plants. However, very rarely is competition measured directly in such experiments. To distinguish between the direct effects of environmental treatments and changes in competitive relationships, it is necessary to quantify the influence of competition on community structure and compare the magnitude and direction of this influence between environments. We describe an experimental approach to accomplish this that is based on the classic yield-density experiment of agronomy. The approach is called the community-density experiment and requires experimental establishment of a gradient in total initial community density such that absolute densities of each species increase but initial relative abundances of each species stay constant along the gradient. We define various indices of the magnitude of community-level consequences of increasing density that can be compared among environments such as different fertilizer or grazing treatments. We also discuss various practical ways of achieving the experimental density gradient that are suitable for different kinds of communities.
4180196| Zwanzig Pflanzen der Klasse Phragmiti-Magnocaricetea (Kennarten der einzelnen pflanzensoziologischen Einheiten) und des Verbandes Agropyro-Rumicion crispi wurden den chemischen Analysen unterzogen. Die Pflanzenproben wurden auf den Wiesen der Trockengebiete S-Mhrens und der SW-Slowakei gesammelt, u. zw. aus den pflanzensoziologisch definierbaren Einheiten (Assoziationen der Verbnde Phragmition, Caricion gracilis, Caricion rostratae und Agropyro-Rumicion). Die Resultate wurden mit der chemischen Zusammensetzung der in anderen Gebieten vorkommenden Pflanzen verglichen. Es zeigten sich Zusammenhnge zwischen der genetisch bedingten chemischen Zusammensetzung bestimmter Artengruppen und den Eigenschaften des Substrats. In diesem Sinne gibt es allgemeine Unterschiede zwischen den Verbnden Caricion gracilis und Caricion rostratae. Die Arten des Agropyro-Rumicion zeigen im Durchschnitt engere Bindung an die Gesellschaften des Cnidion-Verbandes als an das Caricion gracilis. /// Twenty plants of the class Phragmiti-Magnocaricetea, the alliance of Agropyro-Rumicion crispi, sampled from regularly flooded meadows near Lanhot (southern Moravia) and from flooded and fen meadows in the Zhorsk nina Lowland (SW. Slovakia) were subjected to chemical analyses (Tabs. 1-2). The results obtained were compared with the chemical composition of some of the same species coming from other regions (Tab. 3). The following facts were ascertained: (1) The chemical composition of the species with narrower phytocoenological amplitude (those of alliance and association) reflects, more or less conspicuously, the conditions prevailing on the site, even though different biochemical properties of plants of various families are manifested here to a certain degree - e.g. Peucedanum palustre. (2) Phosphorus and potassium predominate in the chemical composition of species of the alliance Caricion gracilis, with the optimum occurrence in inundated positions, while calcium and magnesium (concerning average values - see at bottom of Tab. 2) appear in larger quantities in the alliance Caricion rostratae bound mostly to fens. Some similar chemical properties of various plants of the alliances Caricion rostratae and Caricion gracilis are often linked to their common occurrence. For instance, the occurrence of Carex appropinquata and that of Paucedanum palustre are related to each other in the ratio of N: K and K: Cl; Carex rostrata and Carex elata, e.g. in the ratio of N: Ca, N: K, K: Ca, and K: Mg; Carex vesicaria and Carex rostrata, in the ratio of K: Mg, N: K, and (Ca + Mg): (K + Na), and also in K content. Of order species, Eleocharis palustris, from the physiological-chemical point of view, has more properties in common with the species of the alliance Caricion gracilis than with those of the alliance Caricion rostratae (see the ratio (Ca + Mg): (K + Na), and K and P contents), Carex acutiformis is closer to the species of the alliance Caricion rostratae (cf. Ca: S, N: P, Mg: P, and Ca and P contents). Greater deviations from the average are shown by Carex elata, Carex riparia, and Carex disticha, i.e. by species often forming pure stands. (3) The species of the alliance Agropyro-Rumicion crispi, which are mostly bound to the plant communities of the alliances Caricion gracilis and Cnidion venosi in the temperate regions (if they do not form pure stands), show some different parameters in their chemical composition in comparison with studied species of the class Phragmiti-Magnocaricetea - this mostly concerns the Ca, Mg, Na, S and Fe contents, and some ratios, e.g. (Ca + Mg): (K + Na) and Ca: P (average values). A closer connection was shown to exist with the chemical composition of the important species sampled from the meadows of the alliance Cnidion venosi. (4) In agreement with a higher concentration of nutrients in soils in the valley of the Opava river, the concentration of most elements in plants growing in that valley appears to be higher than that in those in the studied areas in southern Moravia and SW. Slovakia. On the other hand, in the regions of Hercynia (Tebosk pnev Basin, drsk vrchy Hills) poorer in minerals, a lower level of nutrients in plant material was found (Tab. 3). 
4180811| Phytosociological records were made in 80 stands lying in 50 small woodland islands in the Wierzbanwka valley. The types of communities were distinguished on the basis of numerical classification of records. These were mainly fragments of the Tilio-Carpinetum association. For all the stands and for two groups of stands connected with various soils and localized mainly in the eastern or western part of the valley the statistical relationships between ten independent variables were examined (area of record, area of woodland island, its shape, distance to the nearest large woodland, mean distance to the three nearest woodland islands and others) and 10 dependent variables (number of species of trees, shrubs, herbaceous plants, species characteristic of the classes Querco-Fagetea, Vaccinio-Piceetea, Molinio-Arrhenatheretea, Rudero-Secalietea and others). It was found that the floristic composition of the communities investigated was connected primarily with the isolation of the woodland islands. With increasing isolation the total number of species decreased, as did the number of herbaceous plants and that of herbaceous plants of the classes Querco-Fagetea and Vaccinio-Piceetea, while the number of species of the classes Molinio-Arrhenatheretea and Rudero-Secalietea increased. Conditions of the habitat such as the inclination of slopes, shading, and soil fertility were less important. 
4180241|A description is given of a new tall herb association - Deschampsio-Filipenduletum ulmariae from northern Norway, with characteristics of the association, data on its origin and remarks on developmental trends. The syntaxonomic position of the association has been discussed and a comparison has been made with analogous communiteis in Scandinavia, central and east Europe.
4179590| The paper gives an account of the results of karyological investigation of 15 species from Czechoslovakia: Allium ochroleucum, A. senescens subsp. montanum, A. strictum, Asperula tinctoria, Aster amellus, Calamintha officinalis, Calystegia pulchra, C. sepium, Epilobium adenocaulon, Erysimum odoratum, Festuca pallens, Gasparrinia peucedanoides, Genista germanica, Gentiana pannonica, Glyceria nemoralis. Comments on taxonomic, nomenclatural and chorological problems are given for most of these species. /// Diese Studie erffnet eine Reihe von Beitrgen, die der Erforschung der karyologischen Verhltnisse der Taxa der tschechoslowakischen Flora gewidmet werden. Die karyologischen Angaben werden bei manchen Taxa mit Bemerkungen ber taxonomische, nomenklatorische und chorologische Probleme ergnzt. In diesem Beitrage werden 15 Arten behandelt: Allium ochroleucum, A. senescens subsp. montanum, A. strictum, Asperula tinctoria, Aster amellus, Calamintha officinalis, Calystegia pulchra, C. sepium, Epilobium adenocaulon, Erysimum odoratum, Festuca pallens, Gasparrinia peucedanoides, Genista germanica, Gentiana pannonica, Glyceria nemoralis. I. Karyologische Ergebnisse 1. Die Chromosomenzahlen folgender Arten wurden zum erstenmal bestimmt: Calystegia pulchra 2n = 22, Gentiana pannonica 2n = 40, Glyceria nemoralis 2n = 20. 2. Die von den bisher bekannten abweichenden Chromosomenzahlen wurden bei folgenden Taxa festgestellt: Asperula tinctoria 2n = 22; Calamintha officinalis coll. (Pflanzen von botanischen Grten) 2n = 30-32, 35; Epilobium adenocaulon 2n = 18; Genista germanica 2n = 32. 3. Bei 3 Taxa sind genauere Angaben ber deren Karyotyp beigefgt: Allium ochroleucum, Allium senescens subsp. montanum und Festuca pallens. 4. Akzessorische Chromosomen wurden bei Allium senescens subsp. montanum und Epilobium adenocaulon festgestellt. 5. Folgende Chromosomenzahlen wurden vorlufig erwhnt: Erysimum wittmanii - 2n = = 14; E. "vagicum" - 2n = 14. II. Taxonomische Ergebnisse 1. Europische Pflanzen von Allium senescens L. werden als eine Unterart-subsp. montanum (F. W. Schmidt) Holub - bewertet. 2. Von der Variabilittsanalyse des Erysimum odoratum-Komplexes aus dem Gebiet der Westslowakei geht hervor, dass dort ein spezielles, bisher nicht beschriebenes Taxon (mit 2n = 14) vorkommt, das verwandtschaftlich E. wittmanii Zaw. (2n = 14) nahe steht. 3. Gasparrinia Bertol. ist als eine berechtigte Gattung angenommen; G. peucedanoides (M. Bieb.) Thell. ist als eine Kollektivart aufgefasst. Das bisherige Studium erlaubt, die franzsischen Pflanzen dieser Art als eine Unterart zu unterscheiden. 4. Fr die mitteleuropischen Arten von Glyceria R. Br. sect. Glyceria wurde ein Bestimmungsschlssel zusammengestellt. G. nemoralis (Uechtr.) Uechtr. et Krn. ist als eine selbstndige Art angenommen. III. Nomenklatorische Ergebnisse 1. Die Notwendigkeit, die Emendation von Jordan bei dem Namen Calamintha officinalis Moench anzufhren, wurde erwiesen. IV. Chorologische Ergebnisse 1. Glyceria nemoralis wurde als eine neue Pflanze fr die Flora von Trkei an 2, weit vom brigen Areal isolierten, Lokalitten festgestellt. 
4179912| Candelariella plumbea Poelt et Vzda sp. n. und C. rhodax Poelt et Vzda sp. n., beide unabhngig voneinander von den Autoren gefunden, werden als neu beschrieben. Sie gehren zur Verwandtschaft von C. aurella mit achtsporigen Asci. /// Candelariella plumbea Poelt et Vzda sp. n. and C. rhodax Poelt et Vzda sp. n. independently found by both the authors in Europe, are described as new. Both belong to the group of C. aurella with 8-spored asci. Both grow on  vertical surfaces of limestone rocks. C. plumbea is characterised by the grey to plumbeous grey thickly squamulous, finally isidious-soredious thallus and the inflexed thick thalline margin of the apothecia. C. rhodax has rosette-like yellow thalli with distinctly effigurate marginal lobes. 
4180318|Hybrid forms arisen in the process of introgression are of low stability. Changes in climate lead to absorption of hybrids by the ancestor for which this change is most favourable. Though the forms created by hybrid introgression are able to exist for thousands or even millions of years, introgressive hybridization in the cases known to us, as well as in the genera Picea, Larix, Pinus, has not opened and is not opening any evolutionary prospects.
4180437| The present paper is the second part of a vegetation-ecological study dealing with Calthenion communities of the protected landscape region Jizersk hory mountains. The following Cirsium-rich wet meadow communities are dealt with: Polygono-Cirsietum palustris Bal.-Tul. 1974, Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli Bal.-Tul. 1975, Angelico-Cirsietum palustris Bal.-Tul. 1973, and Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei Tx. 1937. /// Die in zwei Teile gegliederte Studie bietet Informationen ber die pflanzensoziologischen und synkologischen Verhltnisse der Feuchtwiesen im Landschaftsschutzgebiet Jizersk hory, einschliesslich seiner Randzone. Es handelt sich um eine Gebirgsregion mit mittlerer jhrlicher Lufttemperatur von ca. 4-7C und mittlerer jhrlicher Niederschlagssumme von 800-1 600 mm. Die geologische Unterlage - es dominiert porphyrischer Biotitgranit - sowie die Bden sind meistens nhrstoffarm und sauer. Es wurden insgesamt acht Assoziationen des Calthenion-Unterverbandes mit neunzehn Subassoziationen unterschieden. Ihre bersicht ist im ersten Teil angegeben (Baltov-Tulkov 1983, S. 117-118). Je nach der Hhenverbreitungstendenz knnen die untersuchten Wiesengesellschaften in drei Gruppen eingeteilt werden, u. zw.: A) Gesellschaften mit dem Verbreitungsschwerpunkt in der collinen Stufe (Meereshhe ca. 400-550 m . M., mittlere jhrliche Lufttemperatur: 6-7C, mittlere jhrliche Niederschlagssumme: 850-1 000 mm): Crepido-Juncetum acutiflori (Subass. typicum und cardaminetosum amarae), Scirpetum silvatici typicum, Polygono-Cirsietum palustris molinietosum, Angelico-Cirsietum palustris typicum und Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei typicum. B) Gesellschaften mit dem Verbreitungsschwerpunkt in der submontanen Stufe (Meereshhe ca. 550-700 m, mittlere jhrliche Lufttemperatur: 5-6C, mittlere jhrliche Niederschlagssumme: ca. 1 000-1 300 mm): Scirpetum silvatici caricetosum fuscae, Polygono-Cirsietum palustris typicum und violetosum palustris und Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei caricetosum fuscae. C) Gesellschaften mit dem Verbreitungsschwerpunkt in der montanen Stufe (Meereshhe ber 700 m (700-910 m . M., mittlere jhrliche Lufttemperatur: ca. 4-5C, mittlere jhrliche Niederschlagssumme: ca. 1 200-1 500 mm): Junco filiformi-Polygonetum (Subass. typicum und alchemilletosum), Polygono-Cirsietum palustris geranietosum silvatici, Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli (Subass. typicum, geranietosum silvatici und imperatorietosum) und Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei geranietosum silvatici und chrysosplenietosum. In Hinsicht auf die Bodenfeuchtigkeit, Humusqualitt, das pH und den Nhrstoffgehalt (auch
4179732| Es bestehen Unterschiede in der Bentzung des Terminus Dissemination bei verschiedenen Autoren. Die einen bentzen ihn im Sinne der Aussaat, die anderen als Synonym der Verbreitung. Die Verfasserin versucht die Beziehung zwischen der Verbreitung und der Dissemination klarzumachen, und hebt die Notwendigkeit der Bewahrung beider Termini hervor. Sie fhrt einen neuen Terminus ein: apeptosporische Dissemination (fr den Disseminationstyp derjenigen Arten, deren Diasporen zur Zeit der Milchreife wegfallen). /// In the botanical literature there are differences in the use of the term dissemination. The author explains these differences as found in the papers of various authors, and makes an attempt to clarify the relation between the terms spreading and dissemination; she emphasizes the necessity to preserve both terms. In a survey of the carpobiological system she tries to explain more exactly the complicated mutual relations of both terms. The terms under discussion are understood by the author as follows: Dissemination-a single, non-repeatable process in which the seeds either fall out of the fruits or are shot off, or in which the diaspores are taken off from the mother plant by man or animals (intentionally or accidentally). In the wider sense of the term, there may be taken into consideration the dissemination of spores or of some kinds of vegetative diaspores, e.g. bulbillae. In no case, however, should the term dissemination be used in the case of subterranean diaspores.-Spreading, on the other hand, is a single or repeatable process in which the seeds, fruits, spores, or all kinds of vegatative diaspores are either removed by means of various agents from the mother plant immediately after dissemination or are transported some time after dissemination from an other site; it means that spreading can take place-unlike dissemination-without any connection with the mother plant. Dissemination is sometimes so violent that it results in spreading over short distances. To the established terms "tachysporous, bradysporous, or semibradysporous dissemination" the author has added a new term, viz. "apeptosporous dissemination". This term means a temporal dissemination type of those species whose diaspores fall off at the stage of milk ripeness and ripen fully only on the ground (Ranunculus spp., Viola spp., Dentaria enneaphyllos, some species of the family Borraginaceae etc.). 
4180039|Ecology and germination behaviour of the seeds of two categories of Cucumis callosus Cogn. has been studied here. The seeds were found to be rigid in their requirement of light and temperature for germination. Red and far-red lights were found to affect germination and a phytochrome system appeared to be present. Temperature was found to have a significant effect on seed germination.
4181307| On the Karula Upland, South Estonia, the forest moss layer was analysed using a transect of 726 contiguous 0.2  0.2 m plots. The sample plots were classified according to a multistage clustering procedure based on the sequential use of algorithms with different criteria. Several obtained clusters are rather similar in species composition, but abundance relationships among dominant species are distinctly different. For detailed analysis of mutual relations among societies a formal definition of adjacency is proposed, and two aspects of the cluster continuum - transitionality and distinctness - are estimated. It appears that almost all resulting societies are very distinct (P < 0.05), but at the same time can be continual in the sense of transitionality. Spatial changes in vegetation along transects are also discontinuous. The null hypothesis assuming the independency of neighbouring sample plots type was refuted with P = 0.01. The spatial extent of different synusiae is typically several times larger than it should be if there were no structure in moss vegetation. 
4180561|Three species of Euphorbia (E. granulata, E. prostrata and E. hirta) exhibited both morphological and physiological adaptations in dry environmental conditions. High bound water, thick cuticle, dense hair covering and low stomatal index are some of the survival adaptations they developed under water stress conditions of the Indian arid zone.
4180070|Zonation of grassland lying behind a coastal lagoon in Ghana is described, and related to seasonal fluctuations in moisture, chlorinity and aeration. The distribution of similar vegetation on the West African coast is discussed.
4180283|One new endemic savanna plant species from Cuba, Polygala omissa sp. nov., is described. It is known only from the locality of Yaguramas (Cienfuegos province).
4181120|A new species, Mesadenella meei, found in Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and compared with the other two known species of this genus. The description is based on live plants in nature and culture, alcolol-fixed flowers, and the type specimen. The floral analysis method (Alves 1990) was used to differentiate the floral structures.
4181281|This Index collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1991 591 names have been listed. Each one is accompanied by an appreciation about its validity with respect to the Code of Nomenclature. 25 names are given in addition to the Indexes 1988, 1989 and 1990 (Theurillat & Moravec 1991, 1992, 1993).
4180814| From the sediments of the former Komoansk jezero Lake near Most, pollen analysis of samples linked with archaeological finds has been performed. One reference profile has been pollenanalytically elaborated, followed by pollenanalytical dating of various isolated samples. The samples elaborated were linked with the following cultural periods: of stroked pottery, of funnel beakers, of domestic specimens of Baden pottery, of corded pottery, of the Untice culture, and of the Middle Ages. A reconstruction of the natural surroundings in various developmental epochs, especially that of the vegetation, has been performed in the locality, in its close vicinity and in more distant neighbourhoods (Komoansk jezero Lake, the Podkrunohorsk pnev Basin, the Krun hory Mountains, the esk stedoho Mountains). The results refer to the Atlantic, Subboreal and Subatlantic periods. The differentiation of the Subboreal in the area under study is still uncertain. /// Es wurden Proben aus dem Komoansk jezero-See, die in irgendwelcher Weise mit den archologischen Funden im Zusammenhang waren, palynologisch verarbeitet. Um ein palynologisch-stratigraphisches Schema zu erzielen, wurde gleichzeitig ein ganzes Profil (PK-1-D) analysiert. Die Auswertung und Datierung der archologischen Funde unternahm Dr. E. Neustupn, CSc. (Archologisches Institut der Tschechoslowakischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, Prag). Die Ergebnisse der palynologisch-archologischen Zusammenarbeit knpften an die Absichten von Prof. K. Rudolph und Dr. H. Losert an, die sich um dasselbe schon in den dreissiger Jahren ebenfalls an den Proben aus dem Komoansk jezero-See bemht haben. Die palobotanischen Analysen hatten zum Ziel das relative Alter der analysierten Proben zu ermitteln und eine Synchronisierung mit dem archologischen Datieren durchzufhren. Zugleich wurde die Entwicklung des Sees und seiner Vegetation rekonstruiert. Es wurde auch eine Rekonstruktion wie der nahen Umgebung, d. h. des Krun hory-Vorlandbeckens, so der weiteren Umgebung, d. h. des Krun hory-Gebirges und des Gebirges esk stedoho vorgenommen. In der vorliegenden Arbeit wird ber das Problem der sich steigernden Widersprche zwischen der Chronologie von Firbas, deren sich die tschechoslowakischen Palynologen bedienen und den Schlussfolgerungen, die am Beispiel des Komoansk jezero-Sees Neustupn (1985) zieht, diskutiert. Palynologisch wurden diejenigen Proben ausgewertet, die eine Beziehung zu den archologischen Funden aus der Kultur der Stichbandkeramik, aus der Trichterbecherkultur, aus der bhmischen Badenerkultur, der Schnurkeramik, der Aunjetitzer Keramik und der mittelatlerlichen Keramik hatten. Die Resultate der Pollenanalysen von Proben P 93 und P 94 deuteten auf eine ungenaue Datierung eines problematischen Fundes hin, der nachher revidiert und der Zeitspanne der Aunjetitzer Keramikkultur zugeordnet wurde. Es war auch erst die Pollenanalyse, die eine undekorierte Scherbe aus dem Fund NS 19 unter Proben der Stichbandkeramikkultur eingereiht hat. Die Pollenanalyse ermglichte ebenfalls die vom Randgebiet des ehemaligen Komoansk jezero-Sees stammenden Proben von denen, die in seinen zentralen Partien deponiert waren, zu unterscheiden. Die Rekonstruktion der Entwicklung des Lagers, der Vegetationsverhltnisse und der Umwelt an der Lokalitt selbst und in ihrer Umgebung wurde fr das jngere Atlantikum und die nachfolgenden Perioden bis zum Mittelalter durchgefhrt. Das jngere Atlantikum: den wesentlichen Teil der Lokalitt nahm der See ein, mit reicher Vertretung von Wassermakrophyten (z. B. Trapa natans, Nuphar sp. div., Nymphaea sp. div., Ceratophyllum sp. div., Myriophyllum spicatum u. a.). Hufig waren Algae (Arten der Gattungen: Pediastrum, Scenedesmus, Coelastrum, Botryococcus, Tetraedron) vorhanden. Von den Rndern des Sees an begann der Verlandungsprozess des Wasserbeckens mit Schilf- und Erlengesellschaften. Im Krun hory-Vorlandsbecken berwog die Eichenmischwaldgesellschaft. In den Gipfelpartien des Krun hory-Gebirges wurden die Bestnde von der Fichte gebildet, an den Hngen dann vom Eichenmischwald. Die Gesellschaften mit der Eiche bildeteten den Grundteil der Waldbestnde des Gebirges esk stedoho. In das jngere Atlantikum gehrt den Ergebnissen der Pollenanalysen nach die Kultur der Stichbandkeramik. Subboreal I: In dem Raum, wo die meisten archologischen Funde vorgekommen sind, war in dieser Phase der See schon verlandet. An seiner ursprnglichen Flche breiteten sich Erlen- und Schilfbestnde aus. Die Nhe eines offenen Wasserbeckens beweisen jedoch Pollenfunde der Wasserarten und der Algenznobien in einem Krug aus der Zeit der Trichterbecherkultur, dessen Inhalt noch im Seebiotop im Zentralteil des Sees abgelagert wurde. Am Grund des Krun hory-Vorlandsbeckens befanden sich Nasswiesengesellschaften und Gesellschaften der Eichenmischwlder, die auch an die Hnge des Krun hory-Gebirges und in das Gebirge esk stedoho bergriffen haben. In den Gipfelpartien des Krun hory-Gebirges drang die Fichte in den Vordergrund, in den Mittellagen dieses Gebirges breitete sich rasch die Buche aus und langsam drang in die Landschaft die Tanne vor. Den Ergebnissen der Pollenanalysen entsprechend gehrt in das Subboreal I die Kultur der Trichterbecherkeramik und die bhmische Badenerkeramik. Subboreal II: Am Entnahmeort der analysierten Proben befanden sich Erlenwlder. Auf einen bedeutenden Kronenschluss deutet das nur vereinzelte Vorkommen von Krutern hin. Anwesend waren vor allen die Farnkruter. Im Krun hory-Vorlandbecken berwogen alluviale Gesellschaften, von schilfartigen Nasswiesenbestnden ber Erlenwlder bis zu Gesellschaften mit berwiegender Eiche. Die Eichenmischwlder bedeckten die Hnge des Krun hory-Gebirges und bildeten den Hauptbestandteil der Pflanzendecke des Gebirges esk stedoho. In den mittleren und wahrscheinlich auch in den hheren Lagen des Krun hory-Gebirges kam es zur Expansion der Tanne und der Buche. Ihre Bestnde verdrngten die Fichte in hhere Lagen und rckten die obere Grenze der Eichenwlder in die niedrigeren. Die ursprnglichen, meistens berwiegenden Laubwlder des Gebirges esk stedoho, waren bereits wesentlich durch anthropische Eingriffe beeinflusst. Nachweislich war hier schon die Weissbuche vorhanden. Nach den palynologischen Resultaten gehrt in diese Zeitspanne die Kultur der Schnurkeramik und die der Aunjetitzer Keramik. lteres Subatlantikum: Der berwiegende Teil der Flche des Komoansk jezero-Sees war von Schilfbestnden und Erlenwldern bewachsen. An den Stellen, wo der Grossteil der archologischen Funde gewonnen wurde, berwogen Erlenwlder. Im zentralen Teil der Lokalitt berdauerte jedoch ein Rest des ursprnglichen Sees immer noch. Im Krun hory-Vorlandsbecken waren alluviale Gesellschaften und Eichenwlder verbreitet. Das Gebirge esk stedoho war ziemlich entwaldet und in den vorhandenen Bestnden dominierten Laubgehlze der ursprnglichen Eichenwlder. Der Charakter der Vegetation des Krun hory-Gebirges war durch Buchen-Tannenbestnde bestimmt, in hheren Lagen mit der Fichte, in den niedrigeren mit der Eiche. Im Sediment aus diesem Zeitraum (seines jngeren Abschnittes) wurden mittelalterliche Scherben gefunden, die hierher jedoch sekundr hineingelangt sind. Jngeres Subatlantikum: Aus dem ursprnglichen Seebiotop berdauerten nur noch unbedeutende Reste, die eher einen Nasswiesencharakter aufwiesen. Die ursprnglichen Bestnde im Becken und im Raum des esk stedoho-Gebirges waren bereits wesentlich vom Menschen beeinflusst. Im Krun hory-Gebirge berwogen immer noch die Buchen-Tannen- und Tannen-Buchenbestnde mit der Fichte. Im Mittelalter waren jedoch die niedrigeren und mittleren Lagen des Krun hory-Gebirges schon bedeutend von der Entwaldung betroffen. Die Wassererosion, die nach diesem Eingriff eingetreten ist, usserte sich durch eine Anschwemmung des anorganischen Materials in den Raum des Komoansk jezero-Sees, was zu seiner endgltigen Verlandung beigetragen hat. Die pollenanalytischen Resultate lieferten nun schon mehr Unterlagen, die die landwirtschaftliche Ttigkeit des Menschen besttigen. Es wurde das Anbauen von Triticum und Secale nachgewiesen und das Vorkommen von Pollen der synanthropen Vegetation - Unkraut- und Ruderalarten - stieg an. Die Vegetationsverhltnisse des Mittelalters werden eingehender besprochen. Es wurden Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen aus dem Komoansk jezero-See mit den Schlussfolgerungen der Pollenanalysen von Proben aus der mittelalterlichen Stadt Most verglichen. Der Gipfel des Mittelalters im Gebiet um Most usserte sich durch eine bedeutende Vertretung des Getreide-, Unkraut- und Ruderalpollens. Diese Zeitspanne wurde jedoch bei der Bearbeitung einzelner Proben aus den archologischen Funden aus dem Komoansk jezero-See nicht festgehalten, sie kam aber in den oberen Partien des Profils PK-1-B und in den Ablagerungenaus der mittelalterlichen Stadt Most deutlicher zur Geltung. 
4181015|The mean above-ground biomass of reed, Phragmites australis, in closed South Swedish stands was found to be 1 kg dry weight
4181079| The paper deals with the vegetation of village settlements at the territory of the Bohemian Karst. In the first part of this study, syntaxonomy of ruderal communities is presented. Deductive method of syntaxonomical classification was applied. An attempt for numerical evaluation of a species diagnostic value in phytosociology is presented. Discussion remarks on the current state of ruderal phytosociology are included. /// Bei der syntaxonomischen Bearbeitung der Vegetation der drflichen Siedlungen des Bhmischen Karsts mit Hilfe der deduktiven Methode konnten 20 Gesellschaften im Range von Assoziationen ausgeschieden werden. Weitere 21 sind als Basal- oder Derivatgesellschaften verschiedenen hheren Syntaxa zuzuordnen. Fr folgende Einheiten wird eine neue Auffassung der Klassifikation vorgeschlagen: Dg. Falcaria vulgaris-[Dauco-Melilotion], Dg. Geranium pratense-[Galio-Urticetea/Arrhenatheretalia], Bg. Potentilla anserina-[Agropyro-Rumicion crispi], Bg. Lolium perenne-Plantago major-[Polygonion], Bg. Geranium pratense-[Arrhenatheretalia]. Nur 18% der durch die Vegetation drflicher Siedlungen bedeckten Flchen nehmen Gesellschaften von Assoziationsrang ein (Pyek 1992). Am hufigsten sind die Gesellschaften der Klassen Galio-Urticetea und Plantaginetea majoris. In der Arbeit wird die Mglichkeit diskutiert, den nach der deduktiven Methode beschriebenen Gesellschaften keine Autorennamen anzufgen und die syntaxonomischen bersichten eines gewissen Gebietes frei im Sinne einer "phytoznologischen Inventarisierung" zu benutzen; dies auch um den Preis eines gewissen Verlustes an bersichtlichkeit des phytoznologischen Systems. Die Benutzung des Levins-Index der "Nischenbreite" ermglicht es, die Bindung der Arten an eine Gesellschaft numerisch auszudrcken. Die strkste Konzentration der Vorkommen wurde bei denjenigen Arten festgestellt, die fr Assoziationskennarten gehalten werden. 
4180019|The paper deals with the differential germination in seeds of Sesbania bispinosa (Jacq.) W. F. Wight (Leguminosae) collected in different months ranging from monsoonal (September) to postmonsoonal (November) periods. The seeds of different batches showed different germination behaviour.
4180686| Agropyron repens (L.) P. B. and Calamagrostis epigejos (L.) Roth belong to species with a very wide ecological and phytocoenological amplitude which have spread secondarily to anthropogenic habitats of various origin and different ecological properties. With regard to the definition of association adopted by the International Botanical Congress in Amsterdam (1935), the plant communities dominated by these species cannot be typified at the level of association. Using the deductive method of syntaxonomic classification, however, these communities may be referred, as derivate communities, to various higher units of the present system. This method reflects synecological and syngenetic differences among the individual types of communities. /// Eine syntaxonomische Klassifizierung der Pflanzengesellschaften, die nur aus Arten mit breiter kologischer und znologischer Amplitude zusammengesetzt sind, stsst auf bestimmte methodische Schwierigkeiten. Wenn wir folgerichtig die Klassifikationsprinzipien der Braun-Blanquetschen Schule respektieren wollen, knnen wir diesen Gemeinschaften kaum den Assoziationsrang (im Sinne der bisher geltenden, am botanischen Kongress im Amsterdam 1935 vereinbarten Definition dieser Einheit) zusprechen. Agropyron repens und Calamagrostis epigejos, die sich in unserer Kulturlandschaft weit ausgebreitet haben, treten als Dominanten in verschiedene anthropisch bedingte Artenverbindungen ein. So gehrt z. B. die Quecke zu den steten Arten zahlreicher Gemeinschaften der Chenopodietea, Artemisietea vulgaris, Galio-Urticetea, Plantaginetea majoris, Festuco-Brometea und Molinio-Arrhenatheretea. Die vorgelegte Arbeit stellt einen Versuch dar, die ruderalen A. repens- und C. epigejos-Gesellschaften unter Anwendung der sog. deduktiven Klassifikationsmethode systematisch zu bearbeiten. Im Sinne dieser Methode werden sie als Derivatgesellschaften angesehen, die zu verschiedenen, durch eigenen Kenn- und Trennarten gengend abgrenzbaren hheren Einheiten des gegenwrtigen Systems gehren. Die extrem artenarmen, als relativ stabilisierte Stadien der fortschreitenden sekundren Sukzession entstehenden Gemeinschaften mit hochdominierenden A. repens oder C. epigejos, werden in der Ebene der Abteilung (Divisio) Convolvulo-Chenopodiea Krippelov 1978 eingereiht. Die brigen, kologisch und entwicklungsmssig "enger spezialisierten" Gemeinschaften werden nach ihrem realen Artengefge zu verschiedenen hheren Einheiten (z. B. Sisymbrietalia, Onopordetalia, Dauco-Melilotion, Arrhenatheretalia, Festuco-Brometea) gestellt. In der sdwestlichen Umgebung von Praha wurden folgende Gesellschaftstypen abgetrennt: A. repens-[Sisymbrietalia] auf mechanisch oft gestrten und periodisch umgeschichteten Bden; A. repens-[Dauco-Melilotion] auf lteren, neu umgeschichteten und eingeebneten Erdaufschttungen im Bereich von grossen Baustellen; A. repens-[Festuco-Brometea] auf stark austrocknenden Aufschttungsbden der Weg- und Strassenbschungen, lteren Brachflchen und hnlichen Standorten in den wrmsten Teilen des untersuchten Gebietes; A. repens-[Arrhenatheretalia] auf mssig austrocknenden bis frischen Bden ltere Brachflchen, Strassenbschungen usw; C. epigejos-[Arrhenatheretalia] auf Aufschttungsbden der Strassenbschungen. Die extrem artenarmen A. repens- und C. epigejos-Bestnde auf Aufschttungsbden verschiedener Eigenschaften werden als syntaxonomisch nicht differenzierte A. repens-[Convolvulo-Chenopodiea] und C. epigejos-[Convolvulo-Chenopodiea]-Gesellschaften gehalten. 
4181028| A survey of units of ruderal vegetation in the territory of Bohemia is presented. In the processing, the deductive method of syntaxonomical classification was used. This method is based on the classification principles of the Braun-Blanquet school and represents its further development. It makes possible syntaxonomical processing of communities which cannot be typified within the rank of associations. The communities are typified in the following abstract units: 1. association, 2. basal community, 3. derivate community. The communities typified in this way are ranged in the "auxiliary network" of higher syntaxa of the phytocenological system (alliances, orders and classes). /// Es werden die Ergebnisse einer syntaxonomischen Bearbeitung der Ruderal-pflanzengesellschaften Bhmens angefhrt, die unter Anwendung der sog. deduktiven Methode durchgefhrt wurde. Diese Methode, die an die Braun-Blanquetsche Schule anknpft, ermglicht eine Eingliederung aller bisher bekannten Gesellschaften in das gegenwrtige phytoznologische System. Im Sinne der deduktiven Methode wurden die Gesellschaften in nachfolgenden abstrakten Grundeinheiten typisiert: 1. Assoziation, 2. Basalgesellschaft, 3. Derivatgesellschaft. Die unterschiedenen Gesellschaftstypen werden nach ihrer realen Artenzusammensetzung in das "Hilfsnetz" der hheren Syntaxa (Verbnde, Ordnungen und Klassen) eingegliedert. Neben den Gesellschaften der Bidentetea tripartitae, Chenopodietea, Artemisietea vulgaris, Galio-Urticetea und Plantaginetea majoris sind in der bersicht der Vegetationseinheiten auch die auf ruderalen Standorten vorkommenden Gemeinschaften der Sedo-Scleranthetea, Nardo-Callunetea, Festuco-Brometea, Molinio-Arrhenatheretea und Mulgedio-Aconitetea eingegliedert. Die den Namen der Einheiten beigefhrten Autorenzitate bezeichnen die gltigen Erstbeschreibungen, die wenigstens durch eine Vegetationsaufnahme belegt sind. Die betreffenden Verffentlichungen sind im Literaturverzeichnis angefhrt. Die neu beschriebenen Assoziationen, Basal- und Derivatgesellschaften werden durch eine Aufnahme eines typischen Bestandes oder durch den Hinweis auf frher verffentlichte Aufnahmen charakterisiert. 
4180505|A new Zornia species from Cuba, the endemic Zornia arenicola sp. nova, is described. It was found on moving sand dunes between the town of Guane and the village of Cortes (Pinar del Rio province).
4180674|Karyological analysis of Oenothera species and stabilized hybrids from Czechoslovakia confirms chromosome number 2n = 14 for all 21 taxa investigated. The cytological data of 3 specific and 5 intraspecific taxa are published for the first time. Chromosome configurations during microsporogenesis are determined in 5 taxa.
4180790|The primary succession of vegetation (higher plants) was studied on large dumps from brown coal mining in N.W. Bohemia, Czechoslovakia. Three differently aged stages were investigated (1977-1986), using permanent plots and transects. Changes in the species composition, the participation of life forms, and the species diversity were expressed on the basis of cover data for a period of 30 years of the succession. The data were processed by an ordination technique (DCA).
4179673| Die beschriebene Gattung Gyalideopsis gen. nov. umfasst vier bisher festgestellten Arten: G. peruviana Merr. ex Vzda sp. n., G. anastomosans P. James et Vzda sp. n., G. athalloides (Nyl.) Vzda comb. n. und G. muscicola P. James et Vzda sp. n. Die Einreihung der Gattung Gyalideopsis in die Familie Asterothyriaceae (sensu Santesson) sowie die systematische Stellung dieser Familie werden kurz behandelt. /// The new genus Gyalideopsis is characterised by the following features: 1. An excipulum which lacks any secondary differentiation into a parathecium and amphithecium and which is entirely composed of slender, anastomosing and ramifying hyphae. 2. A non-amyloid Hymenium. 3. A conspicuous gelatinous hymeneal matrix through which the thin paraphysoides anastomose and ramify as in the adjacent excipulum. 4. Asci with an apical apparatus in the form of a nasse. 5. Hyaline spores which are either transversely septate or muriform, the individual cells of which are more or less constricted at their juncture with adjacent cells. 6. A chlorococcoid phycobiont. The new genus superficially resembles Gyalidea Lett. from which it may be readily distinguished by the delicate paraphysoidal nerwork in place of the simple, true paraphyses of that genus. However Gyalideopsis is most closely allied to Tricharia Fe and Calenia Mll. Arg. which belong to the family Asterothyriaceae sensu Santesson. It is therefore proposed that the new genus Gyalideopsis be placed in this family. Some observations on the systematic position of the Asterothyriaceae suggest that the family has affinities with certain groups of the Graphidales. Four species of Gyalideopsis are known; of these three, G. peruviana Merr. ex Vzda, G. anastomosans P. James et Vzda, and G. muscicola P. James et Vzda, are newly described, and one, G. athalloides (Nyl.) Vzda, is a new combination. /// Le nouveau genre Gyalideopsis est essentiellement caractris par les particularits suivantes: 1. Excipulum constitu d'hyphes minces, ramifies et anastomoses, sans diffrentiations secondaires (parathcium ou amphithcium), 2. Hymnium non amyloid, 3. Glatine hymniale abondamment parcourue de paraphysoides grles, ramifies et anastomoses, de mme structure que les hyphes de l'excipulum, 4. Asques a l'appareil apical  nasse, 5. Spores hyalines aux cloisons transversales ou murales, plus ou moins rtrcies au niveau des cloisons, 6. Phycobionte chlorococcoide. Ce genre prsente des relations de proche parent avec le genre Gyalidea Lett., dont il se distingue par la prsence de paraphysoides  la place de vritables paraphyses. En mme temps il est surtout voisin des genres Tricharia Fe et Calenia Mll. Arg., qui appartiennent  la famille Astrothyriaces sensu Santesson. C'est pourquoi on propose de placer dans cette famille, le nouveau genre Gyalideopsis. Suivent quelques remarques sur la position systmatique des Astrothyriaces qui montrent des relations de parent certaines avec quelques groupes de Graphidales. Jusqu'ici quatre espces du genre Gyalideopsis sont connues, parmi lesquelles trois sont nouvellement dcrites et une quatrime qui constitue une combinaison nouvelle: G. peruviana Merr. ex Vzda sp. n., G. anastomosans P. James et Vzda sp. n., G. muscicola P. James et Vzda sp. n. et G. athalloides (Nyl.) Vzda comb. n. 
4181065|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1988, 297 names have been listed. For each one of them, an appreciation about its validity is given relating to the Code of Nomenclature. 17 names are given in addition to the Index 1987 (Theurillat et Moravec 1990).
4180088| In Bulgarien kreuzt sich Pyrus elaeagrifolia Pall. subsp. elaeagrifolia sowie subsp. bulgarica (Kuthath. et Sachok.) Valev in betrchtlichem Masse mit Pyrus communis L. and P. pyraster Burgsd., mit denen sie gemeinsam hier wachsen. Die Hybriden sind normal fruchtbar, und es wurden fnf Kombinationen von ihnen beschrieben. Vereinzelt beteiligt sich an der Kreuzung auch P. spinosa Forsk. (Syn. P. amygdaliformis Vill.), u. zw. an den Kontaktstellen des Areals von P. elaeagrifolia mit dem Areal von P. spinosa; drei Kombinationen wurden beschrieben. Es wurde auch die Verbreitung beider Subspezies von P. elaeagrifolia und deren Hybriden in Bulgarien ermittelt. /// In Bulgaria Pyrus elaeagrifolia Pall. hybridizes to a remarkable extent with other species. At two localities 10.1 and 33.3% of hybrids were found in the total sum of pear-trees. Between P. elaeagrifolia subsp. elaeagrifolia and P. elaeagrifolia subsp. bulgarica (Kuthath. et Sachok.) Valev there are also transitional forms. The hybrids with P. communis L. and P. pyraster Burgsd. produce normal quantities of well germinating seeds. The following hybrids were ascertained: P. elaeagrifolia subsp. elaeagrifolia  pyraster P. elaeagrifolia subsp. bulgarica  pyraster P. communis  elaeagrifolia subsp. elaeagrifolia P. communis  elaeagrifolia subsp. bulgarica P. communis  elaeagrifolia  pyraster There also exist hybrids of transitional forms between both subspecies of P. elaeagrifolia and P. communis or P. pyraster. In places where the distribution areas of P. elaeagrifolia and P. spinosa Forsk. (Syn.: P. amygdaliformis Vill.) contact, the following hybrids were found in single cases: P. elaeagrifolia subsp. elaeagrifolia  spinosa P. elaeagrifolia subsp. bulgarica  spinosa P. communis  elaeagrifolia  spinosa The distribution of both subspecies of P. elaeagrifolia and of their hybrids in Bulgaria has been ascertained preliminarily. 
4181129| In the second part of the study on vegetation of village settlements at the territory of the Bohemian Karst, ecological and successional characteristics of communities are given. Ellenberg indicator values for temperature, moisture, nitrogen and soil reaction were used to investigate habitat conditions. Successional relations of communities are presented. Quantitative data on the composition of vegetation cover were obtained which made it possible to compare the study area with other regions. /// Die quantitativen Angaben ber die Zusammensetzung der Vegetationsdecke wurden nach der Methode der Einheitsflchen gewonnen. Am hufigsten sind die Gesellschaften der Klassen Galio-Urticetea und Plantaginetea majoris anzutreffen. Insgesamt 20% aller Gesellschaften des Bhmischen Karsts gehren zu den seltenen, 30% zeigen Rckgangstendenzen. Es handelt sich dabei meistens um Assoziationen, d.h. kologisch spezialisierte, typisch drfliche Gesellschaften, whrend eine zunehmende Uniformitt der Ruderalvegetation zu beobachten ist. Die Artendiversitt ist bei den Gesellschaften der Ordnung Onopordetalia und der Klasse Chenopodietea am hchsten. Im Sukzessionsverlauf steigt sie anfnglich, obwohl die Artenzahl in den Initialstadien zuerst am hchsten ist und dann sinkt. Znologisch gesttigte Gesellschaften besitzen in der Regel eine hhere Artendiversitt als die ihnen entsprechenden Basal- und Derivatgesellschaften. Das Vorkommen der Therophyten sinkt im Verlaufe der Sukzession, whrend es in der durch Tritt beeinflussten Sukzessionslinie steigt. Die sukzessionsbedingten Vernderungen sind am Anfang am ausgeprgtesten, was durch die sich erhhenden Werte der floristischen hnlichkeit zwischen den aufeinander folgenden Sukzessionsstufen bewiesen wird. Insgesamt entspricht die Ruderalvegetation des Bhmischen Karsts derjenigen mssig xerothermer Gebiete, doch fehlen im Vergleich zu wrmegetnten Gebieten eine Reihe thermophiler Vegetationseinheiten. Der Vergleich mit anderen Gebieten wird durch den Mangel an quantitativen Angaben und durch die unterschiedlichen Methoden und Auffassungen der Autoren erschwert. Die Vegetationsdiversitt eines bestimmten Gebietes kann nicht nur anhand der Anzahl der fr das Gebiet angegebenen Einheiten beurteilt werden. 
4180890| For tall grasslands of Carpathian avalanche troughs with dominant Festuca carpatica (or Poa nemoralis subsp. montana) a new alliance of Festucion carpaticae has been established. Association Festucetum carpaticae Domin 1925 has been introduced into the alliance, with some new localities supported by phytocenological relevs. A new subass. senecietosum nemorensis was described from a forest zone. The plant community with dominant Festuca carpatica of the Roumanian Carpathian Mts. has been separated into a new association Seslerio rigidae-Festucetum carpaticae and further, a new association of the same area Saxifrago heucherifolii-Poetum montanae is described. Synmorfological, synecological, syntaxonomical and synchorological characteristics of the associations are mentioned. 
4180365| Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit der vegetationskndlichen Analyse eines Bergkiefernmoores in den stlichen Sdalpen, das ungefhr vor 30 Jahren zum Teil kultiviert wurde. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit wird der Vegetationsdynamik und der Besiedlung der verlassenen Torfstiche gewidmet. Zu diesem Zweck wurde eine Technik der Faktoranalyse angewandt. /// The present paper is devoted to the phytosociological study of the plant communities in a Pinus mugo- raised bog in the South-Eastern Alps (North Italy) and particularly to the reconstruction of the vegetation dynamics in primary habitats and in abandoned peat-quarries. The examined bog comprehends typical bog communities (Pino mugo-Sphagnetum and Sphagnetum magellanici) in its central part, in spite of the presence in the corresponding habitats of some "mineral soil water indicator plants" (see Table 1). The peripheric belt shows on the contrary a mire vegetation (Caricetum fuscae). Part of the bog was once exploited for peat quarrying. The quarries were established in 1943 and abandoned in 1946. The evaluation of the vegetation dynamics has been made with aid of a multivariate ordination method (principal component analysis). On the basis of the numerical results it can be concluded that: (i) The primary vegetation dynamics leads from mire vegetation (Caricetum fuscae) through open Sphagnum magellanicum-communities (Sphagnetum magellanici) towards a Pinus mugo-scrub (Pino mugo-Sphagnetum) which can be regarded as a climax community in such bog habitats; (ii) the secondary dynamic sere in abandoned peat-quarries is generally fairly similar to the primary sere; (iii) only in the deepest quarries is a peculiar plant community (Sphagnum teres-Carex elata-association) settled; however it can be argued that such a community is also able to evolve, although slowly, towards Caricetum fuscae and afterwards towards raised bog communities. The vegetation dynamics in primary habitats (a) and in abandoned quarries (b) are represented in Fig. 3. 
4179546| In der Art Vicia sepium L. kann man in Mitteleuropa und in sdlichen Teilen von Nordeuropa drei Varietten unterscheiden: 1. var. sepium mit breiten Blttchen und einem kahlen bis angedrckt behaarten Kelch, 2. var. montana Koch mit schmalen Blttchen und einem kahlen oder zerstreut angedrckt behaarten Kelch, und 3. var. eriocalyx elak. mit breiten bis mittelbreiten Blttchen und einem abstehend langbehaarten Kelch, noch mit einer niedrigen und einer hohen Wuchsform. Bei allen Proben wurde die Chromosomezahl 2n = 14 festgestellt. /// Vicia sepium L. is an Euro-Asiatic species, with regard to the extensive area and to the broad ecological amplitude, not very variable. The larger taxonomic value, which was verified by cultivation in the experimental field, is found in the various forms of the features in the form of the leaflets and in the hairiness of the calyx. The following varieties can be distinguished: 1. var sepium with broad leaflets and glabrous or appressed hairy calyx, 2. var. montana Koch with narrow leaflets and glabrous or sparsely appressed hairy calyx and 3. var. eriocalyx elak. with broad or medium broad leaflets and spreading hairy calyx, this further with a low and with a high form and the forms with broad and narrower leaflets. Var. sepium is distributed in all parts of the area of the species, var. montana Koch particularly in the north-east part of Europe and var. eriocalyx elak. in the north-west part of the area. The number of chromosomes 2n = 14 has been found in all seed samples from various populations and parts of the area. 
4180176| Der Bericht bringt Informationen ber Zustand und Perspektiven der Vegetationskartierung in Europa mit Bezugnahme auf die Erarbeitung einer einheitlichen Vegetationskarte Europas im Massstab 1:3 Mill. im Rahmen der internationalen Zusammenarbeit. Die geplante Vegetationskarte soll auf Grundlage phytoznologischer Merkmale und Methoden erarbeitet werden und die wesentlichen zonal, subzonal, etagal, regional und edaphisch bedingten Strukturen, Besonderheiten und Unterschiede der natrlichen Vegetation einschliesslich der azonalen und extrazonalen Erscheinungen sowie der besonders wichtigen pflanzenhistorischen Gegebenheiten zum Ausdruck bringen. Es wird weiter ber die Formen der Zusammenarbeit und ber die Arbeits- und Organisationsstruktur der Zusammenarbeit an dem Projekt berichtet. 
4179826|A revision of the genus Olpitrichum Atk. was undertaken, revealing three species: O. macrosporum (Farlow ex Sacc.) Sumstine, O. patulum (Sacc. et Berl.) Hol.-Jech. and O. tenellum (Berk. et Curt.) Hol.-Jech. O. macrosporum and O. tenellum occur on decayed cotton bolls, O. patulum on dead rotten wood and bark. Aspergilliform phialosporous state has been found in O. macrosporum and O. patulum.
4180012| Nach Vorbemerkungen ber Umgrenzung und Probeflchenwahl bei den freischwimmenden Wasserwurzler-Gesellschaften werden die diagnostisch wichtigen Arten der Lemnetea sowie Grundstze einer objektiven Abgrenzung und Gliederung artenarmer Syntaxa behandelt. Es folgt eine Zusammenstellung der bisher aus Mitteleuropa bekannt gewordenen 17 Assoziationen einschliesslich ihrer Untergliederung in Subass. und Rassen (s. Tab. 1, 2). Auf Grund coenologischer Verwandtschaftsbeziehungen werden die behandelten Assoziationen zu drei Unterverbnden, in drei Verhnden und Ordnungen innerhalb der Lemnetea (s. S. 13) zusammengefasst. /// At the beginning some preliminary remarks upon structure and choice of plots in pleustic water plant communities are made. Important species of Lemnetea as well as the principles of an objective syntaxonomical order are taken into account. 17 association of Central Europe are described, referring to their coenological individuality and subdivision in subass. and races (s. Tab. 1 and 2): 1. Callitricho-Lemnetum minoris ass. nov. 2. Lemnetum minoris (Oberd. 1957) Mller et Grs 1960 3. Lemno-Spirodeletum W. Koch 1954 4. Spirodelo-Salvinietum Slavni 1956 5. Wolfio-Lemnetum gibbae Bennema 1943 6. Wolffietum arrhizae Miyaw, et J. Tx. 1960 7. Lemno-Azolletum filiculoidis Br.-Bl. 1952 8. Lemno-Azolletum carolinianae (Segal 1965) Nedelcu 1967 9. Ricciocarpetum natantis (Segal 1963) Tx. 1974 10. Lemnetum trisulcae (Kehlh. 1915) Knapp et Stoffers 1962 11. Riccietum fluitantis Slavni 1956 12. Riccietum rhenanae Knapp et Stoffers 1962 13. Lemno-Utricularietum vulgaris So 1928 14. Lemno-Utricularietum australis (Mller et Grs 1960) ass. nov. 15. Spirodelo-Aldrovandetum Borh. et Koml. 1959 16. Lemno-Hydrocharitetum (Oberd. 1957) ass. nov. 17. Stratiotetum aloidis (Now. 1930) Milian 1933 On the basis of coenological affinity the associations are classified in Lemnetalia with Lemnion minoris (suball. Lemnenion gibbae, Azollo-Salvinienion, Lemno-Riccienion), Lemno-Utricularietalia with Utricularion vulgaris and Hydrocharitetalia with Hydrocharition (s. p. 13-14). 
4179765| The formula for calculation of the basic homotoneity-coefficient of sets of phytosociological relevs does not give adequate values for sets of 4 or 3 relevs. Therefore an empirical correction procedure is proposed for the calculation of this coefficient for such small sets of relevs. For sets of 2 relevs the calculation of the basic homotoneity-coefficient gives values equal to Srensen's coefficient of floristic similarity. A simplification of calculation of the basic homotoneity-coefficient for sets of more than 20 relevs is proposed. 
4181386| Pollen analysis of sediments carried off slope-spring mires (Jank I and II) in the Moravskoslezsk Beskydy Mountains made it possible to reconstruct the vegetation in the area over the last millennium. The reconstruction included changes in forest cover and composition, management methods, and changes in landscape from the Middle Ages to the present. Nearly all inferred vegetation changes were most probably anthropogenic. Most of the sediments probably resulted from water-logging following deforestation. Two distinct phases in the vegetation development were inferred. The older phase reflects the natural composition of forests and the original character of the landscape before human impact. Forest communities with dominant Abies, Fagus, and Picea still covered this part of the Moravskoslezsk Beskydy Mountains at the beginning of the Wallachian colonization (end of the 15th century). Other tree species were interspersed, depending on local conditions. The vegetation changed sharply a major way at the transition to the second phase. Deforestation was considerable, many soils became water-logged, and agricultural activity expanded from the lowlands into the mountains. This is shown in the pollen diagrams by the very strong decline of Abies and Fagus, high values of Poaceae and Cyperaceae, and marked increase of cultivated species, weeds of arable fields, grassland species, and, above all, indicators of eutrophicated biotopes. 
4180369| Die Chromosomenzahlen von den tschechoslowakischen Sippen der Gattung Knautia L. sind angegeben: K. drymeia Heuffel subsp. drymeia - 2n = 40 (41, 42), K. slvaca tpnek - 2n = 20, K. arvensis (L.) Coulter subsp. arvensis - 2n = 20, 40 (39, 41), K. arvensis (L.) Coulter s. 1. - 2n = 20, K. kitaibelii (Schult.) Borbs - 2n = 40 (39, 41), K. dipsacifolia Kreutzer subsp. dipsacifolia - 2n = 60, K. dipsacifolia agg. - 2n = 40, 50, 60. Keine taxonomisch wertvolle morphologische Unterschiede zwischen diploiden und tetraploiden Zytotypen von K. arvensis subsp. arvensis wurden gefunden. Fr die Populationen von Pflanzen, deren Morphologie auf Kreuzung oder Introgression zwischen tetraploiden Sippen (K. arvensis subsp. arvensis - 4x, K. drymeia subsp. drymeia, K. kitaibelii und K. dipsacifolia agg.) zeigt, wurden m Einklang mit dieser Voraussetzung die tetraploiden Chromosomenzahlen - 2n = 40 (39, 41) - festgestellt. Einige ungelste taxonomische Fragen hauptschlich ber die diploiden Populationen von K. arvensis s. l. in Bhmen und ber K. dipsacifolia agg. in den Westkarpaten werden diskutiert. /// Chromosome counts of 102 topodemes of Czechoslovak Knautia species are given. Knautia drymeia Heuffel subsp. drymeia and K. kitaibelii (Schult.) Borb. have been found to be tetraploid (2n = 40); K. slovaca tpnek is diploid (2n = 20) and K. dipsacifolia Kreutzer subsp. dipsacifolia is hexaploid (2n = 60). The existence of both diploid and tetraploid populations has been confirmed within the species K. arvensis (L.) Coult. Diploid populations of K. arvensis (L.) Coulter subsp. arvensis have been collected only in the Carpathian region while the tetraploid ones (of the same sub-species) have been found predominantly in Bohemia; they do not penetrate significantly to the Carpathians. The taxonomic discrimination of morphologically and ecologically very similar diploid and tetraploid cytotypes of K. arvensis subsp. arvensis is still impossible in spite of their different distribution. There can be found some vague quantitative differences between the 2x- and 4x-topodemes, but the use of these characters in ploidy level identification without karyological investigation s not efficient. The three diploid (2n = 20) populations of K. arvensis (L.) Coult. s. l. occurring in relic habitats (subalpine cirque, serpentines) differ considerably from each other and from K. arvensis subsp. arvensis as well; the examination of their taxonomic position still leaves much to be desired. The taxonomically intricate Carpathian populations of the K. dipsacifolia-group involve both tetraploid (2n = 40) and hexaploid (2n = 60) plants (the latter chromosome number has not been hitherto recorded in the Carpathians). Only one hexaploid population and one mixed topodeme containing tetraploids, hexaploids and a great amount of probably sterile pentaploids (2n = 50) have been registered in the region explored. Hybridisation and introgression is comparatively abundant amongst the sympatric Knautia taxa of the same ploid level. In Czechoslovakia, this phenomenon occurs at the 4x-ploid level. Actually, tetraploid chromosome counts have been found in populations of plants whose morphological, ecological and chorological features seemed to indicate their expected hybridogeneous origin (K. drymeia subsp. drymeia  K. arvensis agg.; K. arvensis subsp. arvensis-4x  K. kitaibelii: K. dipsacifolia agg.  K. kitaibelii). 
4181350|The species composition of four alpine communities in the north-western Caucasus was subjected to a morphological analysis. The communities are an alpine lichen heath type (ALH), a Festuca varia grassland type (FVG), a Geranium-Hedysarum meadow type (GHM) and a snowbed community (SBC). Eighty-two species were studied, using the following morphological parameters: vegetative mobility, presence of rosettes, architectural model, life form according to Raunkiaer and life form according to Serebryakov. Representation spectra were calculated on the basis of species presence, above-ground phytomass proportion and species frequency. The results show that most alpine species have a low vegetative mobility; a semi-rosette growth form; a sympodial semi-rosette model of shoot formation and that they are characterised by the prevalence of hemicryptophytes. Differences between the four communities were found in the following features: tap-rooted and short-rhizome plants dominate in ALH and, moreover, dense-tussock plants are dominant in the phytomass; short-rhizome (species presence) and dense- tussock plants (phytomass) are dominant in FVG; short-rhizome and loose-tussock plants dominant in GHM; semi-shrub (phytomass basis) and loose-tussock plants are dominant of SBC. Tuberiferous, bulbiferous and monocarpic plants are not important in any of the communities.
4181264|Lycopodium annotinum, a clonal pteridophyte, was grown under canopies formed by various combinations of deciduous Vaccinium myrtillus and evergreen V. vitis-idaea. The canopies differed in red:far-red ratio, with V. myrtillus giving the lowest ratio. The current year's horizontal segments of L. annotinum had the same specific weight in all treatments, but the lengths of the segments were significantly increased when grown under the canopy of V. myrtillus compared with V. vitis-idaea. The number of vertical apices was also increased. Both these responses increased the amount of assimilating structures of L. annotinum when growing under a V. myrtillus canopy. This might be beneficial for the evergreen L. annotinum, since it can then utilize spring and autumn periods when the deciduous V. myrtillus has no leaves.
4179700|Helictotrichon desertorum (Less.) Nevskij is divided into four subspecies, based on the characters of the ligule and indumentum of the sheaths of cauline leaves. A new subspecies - subsp. centroasiaticum Holub - is proposed to cover the Central Asiatic segment of the species.
4181049|This investigation was carried out in an attempt to determine the systematic position of Cicer via DNA/DNA hybridization. The data showed that members of the tribe Vicieae were related to Cicer than to Trifolium and Ononis. It is also showed that Pisum was the nearest species to Cicer. Thus, the data presented in this work recommend the classification of Cicer under Vicieae rather than a separate tribe Cicerideae.
4180342| During 1977 to 1980 the course of flowering and pollen quality were investigated in Salix cinerea, S. fragilis, and S. pentandra, the dominant woody species in a wetland area called "Mokr louky" near Tebo, South Bohemia, Czechoslovakia. Results were compared with basic climatological data, and decisive factors of flowering were estimated. Both S. cinerea and S. pentandra produced morphologically well developed pollen with a high degree of viability. Comparison in twelve habitats showed that the pollen of S. fragilis was very sensitive to climatic factors, and that the marsh habitat "Mokr Louky" was hostile to the generative reproduction of this species. Optimal conditions for pollen germination in vitro were defined for all the three willows. 
4180478|Urtica dioica L. and Rubus fruticosus L. (+ agg.) are widely distributed in Belgian cultivated poplar woods. Using adjusted standardized residuals as an objective measure of preference of a species for ecoparameters, it seems possible to describe the distribution between Urtica and Rubus as coincidental as regards ecological considerations. Both plant species behave obviously as antagonists.
4181057| The article deals with the herbal vegetation of flow and basin watersides in North Korea. Characterizations of associations Polygonetum thunbergii Lohm. et Miyawaki 1962 and Polygonetum sieboldii-hydropiperis Okuda 1978 are given. Persicarietum posumbu, Aeschynomeno-Kummerowietum, Bidens bipinnata-community, Hemarthria sibirica-community, Persicaria dissitiflora-community and Bidens tripartita-community are newly described. All phytosociological relevs were numerically classified by the computer program NUMCLAS. Brief notes on development, ecology and classification of waterside vegetation are mentioned. 
4180504| About 78 foliicolous lichen species were found in a lichen collection from Cuba. Five of these species are established as new taxa: Porina cubana sp. n., P. pocsii sp. n., P. subpilosa sp. n., Tricharia cubana sp. n. and Bacidia ekmanii sp. n. Three new combinations are proposed: Phylloporis multipunctata (Merr. ex R. Sant.) comb. n. (bas.: Porina multipunctata Merr. ex R. Sant.), Phylloporis plytypoda (Mll. Arg.) comb. n. (bas.: Porina platypoda Mll. Arg.) and Calenia aspidota (Vain.) comb. n. (bas.: Ectolechia aspidota Vain.). Taxonomic notes are provided for some taxa, and brief phytogeographical comments are supplied for all the treated species. /// ber die foliikolen Flechten der Insel Kuba war es bisher nur Weniges bekannt. In Santesson's Monographie (Foliicolous Lichens I, 1952) befinden sich Hinweise ber 50 Arten und 3 Varietten der Insel, eine Anzahl, die weit unter der Zahl liegt, die man fr das Wachstum foliikoler Flechten begnstigenden tropischen und subtropischen Regionen der Insel Kuba erwartet. Die vorliegenden Ergebnisse einer taxonomischen Bearbeitung einer Aufsammlung von foliikoler Flechten, gesammelt von Dr. T. Pcs und Dr. A. Borhidi in den Jahren 1978-1980 auf der Insel, erweitern die bisherigen Kenntnisse ber diese Flechtengruppe. Es wird ber 78 Arten dieser Aufsammlung berichtet, von denen 5 Arten als neu beschrieben werden: Porina cubana sp. n., P. pocsii sp. n., P. subpilosa sp. n., Tricharia cubana sp. n. und Bacidia ekmanii sp. n.; neu kombiniert werden 3 Arten: Phylloporis multipunctata (Merr. ex R. Sant.) comb. n. (Bas.: Porina multipunctata R. Sant.). P. platypoda (Mll. Arg.) comb. n. (Bas.: Porina platypoda Mll. Arg.) und Calenia aspidota (Vain.) comb. n. (Bas.: Ectolechia aspidota Vain.). 39 Arten werden erstmalig fr Kuba nachgewiesen. Zu einigen Arten bzw. Gattungen und Familien werden systematische Bemerkungen beigefgt. Bei den foliikolen Porina-Arten der Porina phyllogena-Gruppe werden bitunikat gebaute Asci festgestellt; wegen ihrer systematischen Anschlsse an Strigula-Arten mssen sie aus der Familie Porinaceae (sensu stricto) ausgegliedert und in die Familie Strigulaceae (sensu stricto) berfhrt werden; als selbstndige Gattung aufgefasst, muss die Gruppe den Gattungsnamen Phlylloporis Clements 1909 tragen. Weiters wird auf Grund zahlreicher neuen Funde von Phyllobathelium epiphyllum (Mll. Arg.) Mll. Arg. festgestellt, dass das Pyknidium-Stadium - als Opercularia firma Stirt. beschrieben - eindeutig zu Phyllobathelium epiphyllum gehrt. Die von den anderen Tricharia-Arten systematisch ziemlich isolierte Tricharia vulgaris (Mll. Arg.) R. Sant. wird nher behandelt; ihre anatomisch kompliziert gebauten Hyphophoren werden beschrieben. Bemerkungen zu den Kampylidien von Sporopodium leprieurii Mont. Lopadium flammeum Mll. Arg. und L. gilvum Mll. Arg. werden ebenfalls vorgelegt. Zu allen behandelten Arten werden die Verbreitungsangaben beigefgt. 
4180954|Subspecies names have been studied from the nomenclaturally omitted book Berher, La flore des Vosges, 1887. A commented enumeration containing 107 names published in that book has been compiled. 41 subspecies names have been examined in more detail. Thirteen of Berher's subspecific combinations may be employed in present taxonomic classifications. Nine of Berher's names determine priority of the relevant subspecific epithets (parabasionyms). Two new nomenclatural combinations are proposed: Acetosa alpina subsp. amplexicaulis and Betula alba subsp. glutinosa. More detailed attention has been paid to the problems of names in the group of Rumex arifolius.
4180337| This communication describes a new savanna-like community, the Bletio purpureae-Andropogonetum gracilis Baltov-Tulkov et R. Capote ass. nov., found in the woodless eastern part of the Sierra del Rosario Mountains (western part of Cuba). From the phytosociological point of view, it belongs to the alliance Achlaenion piptostachyae Baltov-Tulkov all. nov., the order Achlaenetalia piptostachyae Baltov-Tulkov ord. nov., and the class Sclerio baldwinii-Andropogonetea gracilis Baltov-Tulkov cl. nov. In the area under study four subassociations were distinguished: the Bletio-Andropogonetum typicum Baltov-Tulkov et R. Capote subass. nov., the B.-A. rhynchosporetosum fascicularis Baltov-Tulkov et R. Capote subass. nov., the B.-A. cassietosum aeschynomenes Baltov-Tulkov et R. Capote subass. nov., and the B.-A. stenandrietosum droseroidis Baltov-Tulkov et R. Capote subass. nov. 
4180356|Seventeen species belonging to Spadicoides Hughes and Diplococcium Grove collected in Central Europe mostly in Czechoslovakia are described and illustrated. Two new species are described in Spadicoides-S. carpatica Hol.-Jech., S. penatium Hol.-Jech. and three new species in Diplococcium-D. bicolor Hol.-Jech., D. insolitum Hol.-Jech. and D. parcum Hol.-Jech.
4181013|Water velocities were measured around water plants in a chalk stream. Low velocities (<
4180776|Palaeogeobotanical evidence of middle Holocene stratigraphic hiatuses in the minerotrophic mires of Czechoslovakia is presented and profiles showing similar phenomenon in other European countries are mentioned. Possible explanations of the middle Holocene and other stratigraphic hiatuses are discussed. The effect of intensive peat decomposition during some successional stages of mire development (above all the carr vegetation stages) is regarded as one cause.
4180654| Two ruderal seam communities, the Lactuco-Anthriscetum caucalidis and Anthrisco-Asperugetum procumbentis, are described in Slovakia. Both communities occur on loess in regions of warm and dry climate. Besides the species of the Galio-Alliarietalia, those of the Sisymbrietalia and Artemisietalia design the floristical composition of the communities. Numerical classification and ordination techniques were adopted to clarify systematic relations of the communities and show the structure of the revealed clusters. A comparison of the results of the numerical methods and the syntaxonomical table synthesis has been performed and briefly discussed. /// In der Arbeit sind zwei Ruderalsaumgesellschaften des Verbandes Galio-Alliarion und zwar Lactuco-Anthriscetum caucalidis und Anthrisco-Asperugetum beschreiben. Sie sind auf Lss in Gebieten mit warmem und trockenem Klima auf der Donau- und der Ostslowakischen Tiefebene vorhanden. Die Artenzusammensetzung der Gesellschaften wird ausser von Galio-Alliarietalia- auch durch Sisymbrietalia- und Artemisietalia-Arten bestimmt. Das Lactuco-Anthriscetum ist fr die Slowakei neu. Das Anthrisco-Asperugetum ist in geographische Rassen mit Anisantha sterilis und Anisantha tectorum aufgegliedert. Auf Grund der Sammeltabelle wird in der Diskussion zu den Gesellschaften mit Anthriscus caucalis und Asperugo procumbens, die in der Literatur beschrieben sind, Stellung genommen. Zur Klrung der syntaxonomischen Beziehungen der Gesellschaften wurden numerische Klassifikations- und Ordinationsmethoden verwendet. 
4181032| The following eleven species currently classified in the genera Bacidia s. lat. and Catillaria s.lat. are transferred to the new genus Bacidina Vzda gen. n. (Lecideaceae s. lat.): Bacidina apiahica (Mll. Arg.) comb. n., B. chloroticula (Nyl.) Vzda et Poelt comb. n., B. egenula (Nyl.) comb. n., B. inundata (Fr.) comb. n., B. mirabilis (Vzda) comb.n., B. neglecta (Vzda) comb.n., B. pallidocarnea (Mll.Arg.) comb.n., B. phacodes (Koerb.) comb.n., B. scutellifera (Vzda) comb.n., B. vasakii (Vzda) comb.n., and B. ziamensis (Vzda) comb.n. 
4181163|The grassland vegetation of the Middle Lena valley is described. The syntaxonomy of floodplain grassland vegetation includes 19 associations of five classes (Cleistogenetea squarrosae, Hordeetea brevisubulati, Calamagrostietea langsdorffii, Phragmiti-Magnocaricetea, Thero-Salicomietea). An example of a typical Lena-river floodplain ridge-hollow vegetation complex is shown. Most of the syntaxa reflect the peculiarity of the East-Siberian vegetation and are absent from Europe. The geographical distribution of these syntaxa is described. The relation of the vegetation of different parts of the floodplain to the vegetation of the alases of Central Yakutia is discussed.
4180926| The paper presents the results of phytocoenological studies of the helophyte vegetation occupying the litoral zone of three North Italian glacial lakes and of the tall-forb communities occurring on the Adige riverside. It uses the method of the Zrich-Montpellier school. The association complex occupying the littoral zone of Lake Caldaro, above all the associations of Cladietum marisci, Caricetum elatae, Juncetum subnodulosi, Schoenetum nigricantis, and Selino-Molinietum caeruleae resembles those of  mesotrophic, calcium rich prealpine lakes studied in Switzerland, West Germany and Austria. On the other hand, the majority of the communities occurring in the littoral of the great Lake Monticolo are of dystrophic-mesotrophic character, manifested above all in the occurrence of Caricetum diandrae, Peucedano-Caricetum lasiocarpae, and Caricetum elatae comaretosum, all with boreal distribution. The tall-forb association Lysimachio vulgaris-Filipenduletum has developed in the Adige riverside from Calthenion and / or from Magnocaricetalia communities as a result of interruption of mowing. 
4179520| The paper gives the chromosome numbers of 45 species from 72 Mongolian localities, belonging to the genera: Amygdalus, Asparagus, Astragalus, Cancrinia, Caragana, Chamaerhodos, Chelidonium, Chesneya, Dianthus, Hypecoum, Lathyrus, Lilium, Oxytropis, Papaver, Potentilla, Schizonepeta, Sibbaldia, Thermopsis, Trifolium, Trigonella, Vicia. Chromosome morphology of three species of Chamaerhodos and taxonomical remarks on some other species are added. A new combination Sibbaldia sericea (Grubov) Sojk is proposed. /// 1. Die Chromosomenzahlen von 45 Arten, die an 72 mongolischen Fundorten gesammelt wurden, sind in der Tabelle 1 auf S. 56-59 angegeben. 2. Bei einer Anzahl von Arten wurde die Chromosomenzahl zum erstenmal ermittelt. Die von den bisher bekannten Angaben abweichenden Chromosomenzahlen wurden bei folgenden Arten festgestellt: Dianthus versicolor, Potentilla gelida, Trifolium eximium. 3. Es wurden die Karyotypen folgender Arten untersucht: Chamaerhodos altaica, C. erecta, C. sabulosa, Chelidonium majus, Chesneya mongolica, Sibbaldia sericea, Vicia baicalensis, V. costata. 4. Die wichtigsten taxonomischen Schlussfolgerungen: a) Der in den europischen Grten unter dem Namen P. nudicaule L. gezchtete Mohn ist mit dem echten P. nudicaule s. str. cytologisch nicht identisch. b) Die ermittelten Chromosomenzahlen bei Potentilla crebridens, P. evestita und P. gelida sind nicht im Widerspruch mit dem vorausgesetzten hybridogenen Ursprung der mongolischen P. evestita aus der Kombination P. crebridens  P. gelida. c) Die Verfasser sind der Ansicht, dass die Trennung der Gattungen Sibbaldianthe und Sibbaldia unhaltbar ist. Es wurde eine neue nomenklatorische Kombination Sibbaldia sericea (Grubov) Sojk vorgeschlagen. 5. Bei Potentilla pamirica wurde das gesamte Verbreitungsareal przisiert. Potentilla crebridens ist als neu fr die Flora der Mongolei und China, Papaver canescens fr die Mongolei angegeben. 
4180280| In the frame work of the SAMDENE project part of the coastal dune vegetation of the Western Desert of Egypt was studied using various field methods and multivariate analysis techniques. The results were compared with those of an earlier study carried out three years before, predating the protective fencing of the area. In the field methods cover-abundance estimates and frequency data were most efficient, while PCA showed to be the most powerful analysis technique. Three years of protective fencing had resulted in a slightly more homogeneous vegetation pattern in the area. /// Im Rahmen des SAMDENE-Projektes wurde die Vegetation eines eingezunten Teiles des Kstendnenkosystems der westlichen Wste gyptens untersucht. Verschiedene Feldmethoden und multivariate Analysetechniken wurden in dieser Studie verglichen nach ihrer Zweckmssigkeit und ihrer Brauchbarkeit um die kologischen Beziehungen der natrlichen Einheiten des Gebietes zu erforschen. Auch wurden unsere Daten verglichen mit den Ergebnissen einer drei Jahre vorher durchgefhrten Untersuchung, als das Gebiet noch nicht eingezaunt war. Artmchtigkeitsschtzungen nach Braun-Blanquet erwiesen sich als die zweckmssigste Feldmethode, gefolgt durch die Frequenz-Methode. Sie ergaben auch die beste Einsicht in die Resultate der multivariaten Analysetechniken. Von diesen Techniken erwies sich die Hauptkomponentenanalyse unter Verwendung eines euklidischen Distanzkoeffizients am erfolgreichsten. Drei Jahre protektiver Einfriedung haben nur einen sehr beschrnkten Einfluss auf die Vegetation gehabt. Das Vegetationsmuster wurde etwas einheitlicher, wahrscheinlich weil der vormalige niedrige Beweidungsdruck, der ja selektiv wirkt, die Diversitt in der Vegetation gefrdert hatte. 
4180613|Seasonal occurrence and abundance of microfungi at three different depths in tropical forest soils of Delhi were studied using the soil dilution and soil plate techniques. Surface layer in all the soil types exhibited the highest population and species number which gradually declined with depth increase. In total, 58 genera comprising 118 species were isolated of which the Deuteromycetes was represented by 38 genera and 90 species, the Phycomycetes by 10 genera and 18 species, the Ascomycetes by 6 genera and 8 species, and the Basidiomycetes and Myxomycetes by single genus and species. Besides the surface vegetation, the edaphic and environmental factors had a profound influence on the occurrence and distribution of microfungi at various depths of soils.
4180792|Phytomass distribution and species diversity were followed in a chalk grassland with different selective clipping treatments during 4 years. Removal of the dominant Brachypodium resulted in a sharp increase in forb phytomass and in species number. The dominance-diversity curve changed in shape from geometric to log-normal. Obviously, Brachypodium restricted the growth of most other species. Removal of all species except the dominant showed, in contrast to the niche pre-emption theory, a marked increase in phytomass and reproductive effort of Brachypodium. It seems that other mechanisms can also lead to a geometric distribution. Removal in a type of vegetation without obvious dominants and with a log-normal species distribution revealed that interspecific competition is not an important factor in this vegetation. This suggested a low intensity of species interaction and a large influence of restricting density-independent factors. Finally, to reduce the dominance of Brachypodium we implemented a 4-year mowing experiment. Mowing earlier in the season resulted in a reduced exclusion of species by Brachypodium. This alternative mowing time may be sufficient to restore species diversity in chalk grassland. Experiments are under way to further substantiate this conclusion.
4180175| Germination and seedling growth were studied on seven Cassia species with relation to salt solutions of different osmotic potential (s). C. angustifolia, C. italica and C. pumila are more resistant to low osmotic potential and C. tora, C. auriculata, C. occidentalis and C. obtusifolia are very sensitive. 
4180928| (Bellevalia ciliata was recorded in north-east Bulgaria south of the Dobrudsha, within field and steppe vegetation. Vegetation records and a distribution map are presented. Based on taxonomic studies it is proposed to combine B. ciliata, B. sarmatica (Pall.) Wor. and B. speciosa Wor. under the oldest name B. ciliata (Cyr.) Nees. /// Im Mai 1986 wurde Bellevalia ciliata (Cyr.) Nees in der sdlichen Dobrudsha (NO-Bulgarien) gefunden. Die Art ist neu fr Bulgarien, abgesehen von einer unsicheren Angabe aus dem Jahre 1937. Das Vorkommen der Art wird kurz beschrieben und pflanzengeographisch charakterisiert. Untersuchungen an Lebendund Herbarmaterial sowie Betrachtungen zur Chorologie ergaben, dass die bislang gefhrten Sippen Bellevalia ciliata (Cyr.) Nees, B. sarmatica (Pall.) Wor. und B. speciosa Wor. einer Art zuzuordnen sind (nach dem ltesten Basionym: B. ciliata (Cyr.) Nees). 
4181517| Morphometric and karyological analysis was employed to prove the occurrence of a population of Sesleria sadleriana Janka, at the locality "Vratec" in the Biele Karpaty Mts. (Slovakia). Morphological characters of this population were analysed statistically (ANOVA, PCA) and compared with those of a population of S. sadleriana in Austria (Hainburg an der Donau) and a population of S. albicans Kit. ex Schult. in the Czech Republic (Javoko). The two populations of S. sadleriana did not differ from each other in the uppermost leaf length, spike length, glume length, lemma length, awn length of lemma and palea length. On the other hand, they differed significantly in these morphological characters from the population of S. albicans. Karyological analysis demonstrated that both populations of S. sadleriana consisted of octoploid plants (2n=8x=56). In addition to chromosome counting, flow cytometry was employed to screen ploidy levels. The experiment demonstrated a positive correlation between the ploidy estimated by chromosome counting and DNA flow cytometry in S. sadleriana and S. albicans. Flow cytometry proved extremely useful for ploidy screening in large numbers of plants. The locality "Vratec" represents the northernmost locality of S. sadleriana known so far. 
4181425|The presented investigations have been carried out in order to estimate toxic sulphide levels and to examine detoxification capabilities in roots and rhizomes of the common reed (Phragmites australis). Underground organs of common reed are sensitive towards sulphide above 1 mM applied exogenously under hypoxia. However, certain tolerance may be achieved by sulphide detoxification. Accumulated sulphide is partially used for the synthesis of non-toxic thiols, mainly glutathione. But the detoxification capacity of the underground organs is limited. Maximum concentrations of thiols are about
4180953|The affinities and endemism of Kashmir Himalaya Ranunculaceae and Paeoniceae reveal some interesting distribution patterns in some taxa. Isoflor maps, revealing the affinities of Aconitum, Aquilegia, Delphinium and Ranunculus, are given. A high degree of endemism exists in the study area. About 41% of the total taxa show restricted distribution which is discussed. The floristic relationships of the wides show close links with Central Asia than any other phytogeographical unit. The significance of altitudinal amplitude of some taxa vis-a-vis their distribution pattern is discussed.
4179862| Die Autorinnen legen drei neuen Fachausdrcke fr die an Samen der Familie Fabaceae festgestellten Gebilde for. Macula cicatricularis - ein Makel um die Narbe (cicatricula), macula raphalis - ein Makel um die Sammennaht (raphe), und fissum hilare - eine linienfrmige Vertiefung inmitten des Nabels (hilum). 
4179823|Chromosome numbers are reported for the following Czechoslovak representatives of the genus Gagea Salisb.: G. bohemica (Zauschn.) J. A. et J. H. Schult. subsp. bohemica (2n = 60), G. lutea (L.) Ker-Gawl. (2n = 72), G. minima (L.) Ker-Gawl. (2n = 24), G. cf. paczoskii (Zapal.) Grossh. (2n = 48), G. cf. pomeranica Ruthe (2n = 48), G. pratensis (Pers.) Dum. s. str. (2n = 60), G. pusilla (F. W. Schmidt) J. A. et J. H. Schult. (2n = 24), G. spathacea (Hayne) Salisb. (2n = 106), and G. villosa (M. Bieb.) Duby (2n = 48). Meiotic behavior was found to be essentially regular in G. pusilla and G. villosa whereas a high proportion of meiotic irregularities was noted in G. bohemica and G. pratensis s. str.
4180972|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1987, 460 names have been listed. For each one of them, an appreciation about its validity is given relating to the Code of Nomenclature.
4179646| The gradients of floristic composition and environmental factors (temperature, soil moisture, pH, light intensity) were followed on three transects delimited in the contact zone between woodland and xerothermic grassland on the NW. slope of the Velk hora Hill in the Bohemian Karst. The densities of the more frequent plants and corresponding values of environmental factors are presented in graph form. Three different ecotopes, e.g. woodland, thermophilous grassland, contact between woodland and grassland, could be traced. The values of temperature, soil moisture, light intensity grouped according to the three ecotopes show significant differences in the respective mean. Furthemore, the association between species has been calculated and the chi-square matrix for the 11 most frequent species is given. On the basis of these calculations, a diagram of assumed relations between species was constructed. On the ground of data obtained, a significant regression of the density of thermophilous herbaceous plants on the temperature of the soil surface was found. The type of gradient on this experimental site is discussed and noticeable step-like, discontinuous character of both the floristic and environmental gradient is shown. 
4181274|Bulkiness, longevity and solidity of the body in woody plants enable the successive development of accessory shoots and adventitious roots in (1) both proximal and distal positions on organs, (2) both the above-ground and below-ground space, (3) both the aerial and soil environments. In monocotyledons, woody rhizomes play an essential role in the basic growth habit and architectural models. In dicotyledonous and a few gymnospermous trees, attached and successively disconnected ramets play a multilateral role in the pertinent life strategies. The majority of sprouts, coppice shoots and root suckers behave as opportunistic organs (a) serving as means of vegetative reproduction, (b) securing colonization of unoccupied ground, (c) increasing competitive power of the species within the community, (d) increasing survival rate of the stressed/disturbed genet in marginal habitats, (e) forming replacement for ageing or damaged organs, and (f) enabling reiteration of the genet's entire architectural model.
4181117| Broad-leaved forest communities of the territory of Tharandt near Dresden, Bundesrepublik Deutschland, are described on the basis of vegetation relevs and classed into eight associations. A comparison of the communities with similar ones described from other territories of Central Europe is made. /// Eingangs unserer Arbeit ber die Laubwlder von Tharandt und Umgebung wird zuerst eine bersicht ber das Gelnde, seinen geologischen Aufbau und die im Gebiet vorkommenden Laubwald-Gesellschaften gegeben. Es folgt eine Beschreibung des im Gebiet nur sprlich vorkommenden Carici remotae-Fraxinetum aus dem Alno-Ulmion Verband auf vom Wasser berrieselten Untergrund. Ferner kommt das Aceri pseudoplatani-Fraxinetum vor mit z.T. reichlich Lunaria rediviva aus dem Tilio-Acerion Verband, von dem 16 Aufnahmen erhoben wurden. Das Stellario holosteae-Carpinetum (oder Melampyro-Carpinetum) ist im Gebiet mit 36 Aufnahmen weit verbreitet und gliedert sich in vier Ausbildungen nmlich von Filipendula ulmaria, Stachys sylvatica mit drei Varianten, eine typische Ausbildung mit zwei Varianten und schliesslich eine von Luzula luzuloides. Dann werden die Buchenwlder beschrieben; nmlich das Festuco altissimae-Fagetum mit 26 Aufnahmen und das im Gebiet nur sprlich vorkommende Melico uniflorae-Fagetum aus dem Eu-Fagenion Unterverband. Aus dem Verband Luzulo-Fagion (bzw. aus dem Unterverband Luzulo-Fagenion) wird das im Gebiet mit 26 Aufnahmen unter den Laubwldern weit verbreitete Luzulo luzuloidis-Fagetum mit drei Varianten behandelt; die Gesellschaft hat auch flchenmssig einen grossen Anteil. Am Schluss folgen die Eichenwlder, die alle relativ trocken sind und sich auf steile Hanglagen in S- bis W-Exposition beschrnken. Vorwiegend handelt es sich um das Luzulo luzuloidis-Quercetum, sehr selten um das Cynancho vincetoxici-Quercetum, eine Gesellschaft, die zu den Flaumeichen-Wldern neigt. Abschliessend werden pH-Werte von steilen und nach S und N gerichteten Hanglagen mitgeteilt. 
4179588| In diesem Beitrag ist eine kurze bersicht der Waldgesellschaften des Sdteils der Kleinen Karpaten enthalten. Die ziemlich verschiedenen Standortsverhltnisse in diesem verhltnismssig kleinen Gebiete bedingen das Entstehen einer Reihe von Laubwaldgesellschaften mit sehr abweichenden Standortsansprchen, wie Carici pilosae-Carpinetum, sekundrer Primula-Eichen-Hainbuchenwald, Festuco heterophyllae-Quercetum, Stellario-Alnetum, Carici remotae-Fraxinetum, Dentario-Fagetum, Cephalanthero-Fagetum, Phyllitidi-Aceretum, Luzulo-Fagetum, Cotino-Quercetum pubescentis, Ceraso (mahaleb)-Quercetum und Luzulo-Quercetum. Den einzelnen Gesellschaften sind ihre phytoznotische Charakteristik und ein Schriftenvergleich beigefgt. /// This paper gives a survey of forest communities in the southern part of the Little Carpathians (Western Slovakia). In this relativelly small territory the ecological conditions (climatic conditions and geological substrata) are very variable. This explains the development of a series of forest communities with widely different ecological demands from xerophilous oak forests to montane beech forests. The following associations and lower units were distinguished and phytocenologically characterised: Class: Querco-Fagetea Br.-Bl. et Vlieger in Vlieger 1937 Order: Fagetalia Paw. 1928 Alliance: Carpinion betuli (Mayer 1937) Oberd. 1953 Associations: Carici pilosae-Carpinetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1964 (dryopteridetosum, typicum, luzuletosum) Secondary Primula-oak-hornbeam forest Festuco heterophyllae-Quercetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1964 (luzuletosum) Alliance: Alno-Padion Knapp 1942 emend. Medwecka apud Matuszkiewicz et Borowik 1957 Suballiance: Alnion glutinoso-incanae (Br.-Bl. 1915) Oberd. 1953 Associations: Stellario-Alnetum (Mikyka 1944) Lohmeyer 1957 (chrysosplenietosum, allietosum ursini) Carici remotae-Fraxinetum Koch 1926 Alliance: Fagion silvaticae Tx. et Diem. 1936 Suballiance: Eu-Fagion Oberd. 1957 emend. Tx. 1960 Association: Dentario bulbiferae-Fagetum (Zlatnk 1935) Hartmann 1953 (caricetosum pilosae, mercurialetosum) Suballiance: Cephalanthero-Fagion Tx. 1955 Association: Cephalanthero-Fagetum Oberd. 1957 (circaeetosum, typicum, caricetosum albae) Suballiance: Acerion pseudoplatani Oberd. 1957 Association: Phyllitidi-Aceretum Moor 1952 Alliance: Luzulo-Fagion Lohm. et Tx. in Tx. 1954 Association: Luzulo albidae-Fagetum Markgraf 1932 emend. Meusel 1937 (luzuletosum, deschampsietosum) Order: Quercetalia pubescentis Br.-Bl. 1931 Alliance: Quercion pubescenti-petraeae Br.-Bl. 1931 Suballiance: Eu-Quercion pubescentis Klika 1957 Associations: Cotino-Quercetum pubescentis Jakucs et Fekete 1958 (seslerietosum variae) Ceraso (mahaleb)-Quercetum pubescentis Jakucs et Fekete 1957 Class: Quercetea robori-petraeae Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943 Order: Quercetalia robori-petraeae Tx. (1931) 1937 Alliance: Genisto germanicae-Quercion R. et Z. Neuh. 1967 Association: Luzulo albidae-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Passarge 1953 emend. R. et Z. Neuh. 1967a (typicum, genistetosum tinctoriae). The units investigated are documented with vegetation plots and tables (phytocenological tabular arrangement according to Braun-Blanquet). 
4181516| Suggestions are made to define vegetation units by using formal logic. The characteristics that are used for the definition are logically combined using the AND, OR and NOT operators in such a way that relevs can be unequivocally allocated to vegetation units. Among all the characteristics of vegetation species groups are best suited to present allocation schemes for the Braun-Blanquet-system. It is shown that definition gaps within the system can be completely avoided by providing formal allocation rules. 
4181344|Year-to-year variability of species composition and hay yield were investigated during a six-year period (1988-1993) in a traditionally mown meadow of great species richness at Negrentino in southern Switzerland. Climatic parameters (temperature, duration of sunshine, global radiation, precipitation, evaporation, relative moisture) measured at a nearby weather station were calculated for ten-day units and compared to quantitative vegetation data. Yields of the first and second harvest were positively correlated with the mean relative moisture during the first and second growth period. Distinct variation patterns were recognized among the 48 species and interpreted as direct or indirect responses of interacting species to climatic conditions during three periods of the year. The first variation pattern including abundant graminoids reflects a strong direct effect by weather conditions in the first growth period. Species of the other variation patterns responded differently to extreme summer droughts with apparent time-lags. Some species reflect warm and humid conditions in early spring followed by dry conditions in a particular year; others combine features of different variation patterns.
4179890|The paper deals with three plant communities of forest clearings and forest paths in the neighbourhood of Aas, not studied hitherto in Norway, i.e. Carici leporinae-Agrostietum tenuis, Chamaenerion angustifolium-Calamagrostis purpurea comm. and Rubo-Pteridietum aquilini.
4180058| In der vorliegenden Arbeit wird eine neue Pflanzenassoziation Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albi Slavk 1978 beschrieben. Diese Assoziation ist an Kiesanschwemmungen in der niederen Lagen der warmen Region am Fuss der Karpaten gebunden und kann auch anderswo in Mittel-europa vorausgesetzt werden. Sie stellt eine Parallele zum verwandten Melilotetum albo-officinalis Sissingh 1950. /// A plant community of the alliance Dauco-Melilotion occurring on gravel alluvia in the warm foothills of the Carpathians (up to 300 m, mean temperature in July often above 18 C), mainly in the valley of the river Vh in W. Slovakia, is here described on the basis of dominant species such as Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albi. By its species composition it constitutes a parallel to the related association Melilotetum albo-officinalis. In the aboriginal countryside, gravel alluvia of streams apparently provided suitable habitats for the formation of species groupings from which the above associations developed. As a result of man's intensive influence, the Melilotetum albo-officinalis was also formed in secondary habitats. The characteristic species combination of the association described includes Agrostis stolonifera, Arenaria serpyllifolia, Artemisia vulgaris, Conyza canadensis, Daucus carota, Echium vulgare, Epilobium dodonaei, Erysimum hieraciifolium, Galeopsis angustifolia, Medicago lupulina, Melilotus albus, Melilotus officinalis, Oenothera sp. div., Poa compressa, Saponaria officinalis and Silene vulgaris. The table contains 12 phytosociological relevs (nomenclatural type: relev no. 6) from gravel alluvia of the river Vh between the villages Nimnica (268 m a. s. l.) and Ratnovce (152 m a. s. l.) and an analysis of the synmorphology, synecology, syngenesis and synchorology of the community is given in the text. Syngenetically, the association is related to the communities of the alliances Epilobion fleischeri and Salicion eleagni. While these communities are characteristic of gravel alluvia of mountain streams at higher elevations and include at least some oreophytes, Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albi is distinguished by the absence of oreophytes and presence of a number of subthermophytes and subxerothermophytes. An important factor of coenogenesis is the dynamics of the stream with erosion-accumulation processes and fluctuation of water level. Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albi is an open plant community with an average 40% cover. Hemicryptophytes predominate, followed by therophytes. The internal floristic homogeneity is 51,1%. It is currently enriched by other species, often of adventive character. The association Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albi, ascertained in the West Carpathians, may be expected to occur elsewhere at lower elevations in Europe, where the indicating species, Epilobium dodonaei, is found. 
4179799|At the present time, three main migration routes of adventitious plants can be distinguished and defined in Czechoslovakia: (1) the Eastern Route, (2) the Elbe (Labe) Route, and (3) the Pannonian Route. Plant species approximately referring to individual routes are listed, too.
4179467|The problems of obtaining satisfactory estimates of the growth rate by harvesting tops and roots of a natural plant community-the heath vegetation in southern Australia-are outlined. It is essential to develop non-destructive methods for studying rates of production such as recommended by the Section entitled "Production Processes of Terrestrial Communities" of the International Biological Programme.
4181351|The dominance of Polygonum bistorta in abandoned mountain meadows was studied. Successional and seasonal changes in biomass, nitrogen concentration and content were studied at the community level. During the succession, P. bistorta increases its biomass both in absolute and mainly in relative values compared to the surrounding species. Nitrogen stored in its rhizomes seems to be quickly translocated into above-ground parts at the beginning of the growing season. High amounts of nitrogen allow rapid growth of both vegetative and generative plant parts. The success of P. bistorta is probably the result of efficient use of stored nitrogen, suppression of surrounding vegetation by above-ground cover of leaves and by decrease in the level of soil nitrogen, and the effect of a large amount of litter. Management consisting in the combination of mowing and fertilization is proposed.
4181542|This paper summarises present knowledge of the natural saum vegetation (Trifolio-Geranietea: Trifolion medii, Geranienion and Dictamno-Ferulagenion) in Slovenia. The alliance of Geranion sanguinei was subdivided into the Geranienion (primarily of Central European distribution) and Submediterranean Dictamno-Ferulagenion. Several new syntaxa (Scorzonero villosae-Trifolietum alpestris, Cirsio-Clematidetum rectae and Origano-Cnidietum silaifolii) were described within the Dictamno-Ferulagenion.
4181221|Generative and vegetative reproduction of diploid and triploid Butomus umbellatus L., and growth and biomass production of both cytotypes under two different nutrient levels were compared. Seedling survival was studied under controlled conditions in a growth chamber; the response of plants to different nutrient conditions was studied in experimental garden. Both cytotypes do not differ in seed germination and seedling survival. Triploids produce more aboveground and underground biomass, more numerous lateral rhizome buds, and have significantly higher flowering stalks. Low generative reproduction (limited seed production) in triploids is compensated for by more intensive vegetative reproduction. High nutrient level appeared to be stressful for plants of both cytotypes: it limits plant growth and causes plant mortality. Triploids are more viable than diploids in this case, which may be important for their survival under conditions of high trophic level.
4180835| Viatic migration is an important part of linear migration of plants in the cultural landscape. Some species migrate along the roadsides (1) among particular altitudinal belts, (2) among regions with variously disturbed natural vegetation, and (3) among regions of different geology and soil cover. The roadsides are populated by anthropogeneous plant communities of specific species composition. /// Die viatische Migration stellt einen wichtigen Bestandteil der sog. Linienmigration der Pflanzen dar. Sie kommt zum Ausdruck (1) durch Ausbreitung von einigen Pflanzen auf den strassenbegleitenden Standorten zwischen einzelnen Hhenstufen eines vertikal gegliederten Gebietes, wobei die Ausbreitung von relativ wrmeliebenden Arten der Niederungen und der Hgellnder in die hheren Lagen berwiegt; (2) durch Ausbreitung von Pflanzen zwischen Gebieten mit verschiedenartig vernderter natrlicher Vegetation (z. B. Eindringen einiger Wiesen- und Unkrautarten in eine Waldlandschaft); (3) durch Ausbreitung von Pflanzen zwischen Gebieten mit unterschiedlichem geologischen Bau und abweichenden Bodeneigenschaften, wobei es sich fast immer um eine Einwanderung von Arten der relativ eutrophen Standorte in Gebiete mit armen (oligotrophen) Bden handelt. Auf verschiedenen Strassenrandstandorten (Randstreifen, Grben, Bschungen) entstehen  eigenartige Artenverbindungen in den anthropogenen Gemeinschaften, die man oft als selbststndige Einheiten typisieren kann. Es werden einige Beispiele des unterschiedlichen Artengefges der natrlichen und anthropogenen Saumgesellschaften gegeben. Die Strassen gehren zu den wichtigen Wanderwegen von mehreren Adventivpflanzen. Man kann deshalb feststellen, dass sie eine bedeutende Rolle in der forschreitenden Synanthropisierung der Flora und Vegetation unserer Kulturlandschaft spielen. 
4179850| The paper deals with the estimation of maximum above-ground herb-layer biomass in selected forest communities of the Mal Karpaty Mts., (Lesser Carpathians) SW. Slovakia. Use was made of a combined method of indirect sampling and phytocenological relevs, and the following values were ascertained: 41 kg/ha in the Luzulo-Fagetum (276 kg/ha if mosses included), 691 kg/ha in the Carici pilosae- Carpinetum, 364 kg/ha in the Dentario-Fagetum, 476 kg/ha in the Aceri-Carpinetum, and 1364 kg/ha in the Stellario-Alnetum. The results are discussed and compared with earlier data published in the literature. /// Die Autoren befassen sich in dieser Arbeit mit der Schtzung der maximalen oberirdischen Biomasse der Krautschicht in der Vegetationsperiode. Dazu waren Waldgesellschaften der Kleinen Karpaten ausgewhlt. Zur Schtzung der Biomasse wurde die verbesserte Methode der indirekten Entnahme und Vegetationsaufnahme angewandt. In den untersuchten Gesellschaften wurden folgende Werte der Krautschicht-Biomasse festgestellt: Luzulo-Fagetum 41 kg/ha, zusammen mit den Moosen 276 kg/ha, Carici pilosae-Carpinetum 691 kg/ha, Dentario-Fagetum 364 kg/ha, Aceri-Carpinetum 476 kg/ha und Stellario-Alnetum 1364 kg ha. Die erzielten Ergebnisse werden diskutiert und verglichen. 
4180485|A new genus Bactrodesmiastrum Hol.-Jech. is established for a fungus of dematiaceous hyphomycetes collected on decaying wood of Fagus sylvatica in Czechoslovakia. The only species, B. obscurum Hol.-Jech. is described and illustrated.
4180219|Morphological and physiological quality of the pollen was studied in four Rosa species growing in habitats with different calcium carbonate content. In soils rich in calcium the pollen showes in all cases better physiological quality which is an assumption for good fertility. It may be also one of the reasons for species diversity and population abundance of roses in native habitats on calcareous soils.
4179629| The study of the annual productivity of some reedswamp species grown in hydroponic sand cultures is described. The plants were cultivated in the open in a mixture of diatomite earth and sand, and irrigated periodically with a nutrient solution. The cultivation tanks were arranged in tiers to enable a continuous passage of the nutrient solution through the rooting medium. The plants were grown from small rhizome cuttings or seedlings one year old. Harvests at intervals of 1 to 3 years made it possible to follow and assess in quantitative terms the dry matter production of both aerial (shoots) and underground organs ("Root/Shoot" Ratio) and the annual dry weight increase of the underground biomass of these perennial species. The research included macro- and microclimatological measurements of temperature (air, substrate), humidity and incident (global) solar radiation. The annual productivity and the efficiency of incident solar energy utilization in the yields of cultivated reedswamp species are compared with corresponding values of the same species in natural stands. The values of production (standing crop), net annual productivity C, and the coefficient of solar energy conversion  were very high, surpassing in several cases those of natural habitats. The significance of these findings is discussed. 
4180264|Micromeles Decaisne emend. Koehne (Rosaceae, Maloideae) is shown to be generically distinct from Sorbus L. emend. Crantz. Problems in the taxonomy of the genus are reviewed. The genus appears to be most closely related to Raphiolepis Lindl. but is readily distinguished by a constant set of characters. Both genera may be derived from Sorbus L. emend. Crantz subg. Aria Pers. Analysis of morphological characters is provided. A survey for flavonoids revealed the presence of vitexin and/or luteolin 7-O-glucoside in some members of the genus in a pattern similar to that found in certain Asian species of Sorbus. There are also brief taxonomic notes on some of the species which were examined.
4181439|Plant community structure was investigated in a species-poor grassland on slightly alkaline soil, subjected to eight combinations of seasonal grazing management. The "Linear patch model" of Bycroft et al. (1993) and the "Site model" of Wilson et al. (1987) were used to examine variance in local species richness, since a variance deficit (in comparison with a null model) is a possible indication of niche limitation. Even though treatment had affected species composition, the degree of variance deficit was essentially constant between grazing treatments. Grass species richness was also unaffected by grazing regime. Species association was examined by a new method, that discounts the tendency to negative association that will be caused by any constraint on local species richness. There were differences in association between paddocks, related to both treatments and blocks, but these were individualistic to the sample, apparently because of species spatial patchiness. Differences between replicate paddocks were generally as great as those between treatments. However, the effect of Spring grazing on the association between Hordeum secalinum and Agrostis stolonifera was opposite between the two Winter grazing levels. Pattern of the more common species was investigated, again via a new test, one based on runs. The pattern of Agrostis stolonifera was constant, irrespective of grazing treatment, even though its abundance had changed. However, Lolium perenne was affected by grazing - under winter grazing its occurrences were less clumped - even though grazing had no effect on its mean abundance. There was therefore some indication of small effects of winter grazing on community structure, i.e. regularities in the patterns of species co-occurrences that might be caused by limitations to species coexistence. Apart from this, community structure was quickly restored after the imposition of different grazing regimes, to that typical of stable communities. Applying the Gitay-Wilson "Three-phase model" of succession, the "Pioneer" phase in this grassland lasted less than five years. It is concluded that the grassland is currently in the second, "Building", phase.
4179517| In Reykjanes peninsula, mainly in the valley of Krsuvk, in all 6 mire associations were found, belonging to the alliances Eriophorion Scheuchzeri and Caricion canescentis-fuscae. Floristic, ecological and physiognomical differeces between the two alliances are discussed. Most of the associations seem to be restricted in their distribution to Iceland. 
4179791|A revision of herbarium material of Rorippa, revealed the presence of the diploid Rorippa islandica (Oeder ex Murr.) Borb. (2n = 16) in several localities in Jugoslavia (Bosnia-Hercegovina and Montenegro), and probably also in Italy (Etruria). All localities occur in altitudes above 1400 m a.s.l. and constitute an extension of the distribution area of this species to Appenine and Balkan Peninsula.
4180156|Foliar appendages of eight species of Salvia L. have been studied. Eleven types of non glandular and five types of glandular appendages have been observed. They have been classified under three major categories: (1) glandular capitate; (2) non glandular filiform and (3) non glandular capitate. Five new types of trichomes have been reported from Lamiaceae for the first time. On the basis of trichome types different species of Salvia can be identified. A tentative key has been presented.
4180465|Four earlier proposed and invalidly published generic names of Lycopodiaceae are validated: Lateristachys (type: Lycopodium laterale R. Br.), Lycopodiastrum (type: Lycopodium casuarinoides Spring), Pseudodiphasium (type: Lycopodium volubile G. Forster) and Pseudolycopodium (type: Pseudolycopodium densum (Rothm.) Holub). A new genus Pseudolycopodiella (type: Lycopodium carolinianum L.) is described. New nomenclatural combinations are proposed for 17 species of these genera and of Lycopodiella.
4181418| Characteristics of the growth and performance of Phragmites australis as well as sediment characteristics were investigated along the western shore of Romberk fishpond. The reed performance decreased toward the southern end of the shore, proximate to outlets of wastewater effluent and untreated sewage. While the reed stand was closed and looked healthy at the northern end, gaps occurred within the flooded part of the reed belt further southwards; reed was absent in water along the southernmost part of the shore, though dead shoot stubble indicated its presence in earlier times. In the latter site, the surface layer of sediment consisted of fine mud with a high organic matter content and a high oxygen demand. To a smaller extent, patches of partly decomposed reed litter inside the gaps showed the same properties. It is suggested that organic matter accumulating within the flooded part of the reed belt may have reduced plant performance which ultimately lead to the formation of gaps. At a later stage, the lakeside fringe of the reed belt collapsed, thus completing the retreat of reed from water. A protective effect of calcium against the adverse effects of organic matter is suggested. 
4180401| A new subspecies, Lathyrus nissolia L. subsp. futakii Chrtkov subsp. nova is described from East Slovakia. The diacritical characters are: high and rich branched stems, 50-110 cm long and larger, 10-12 mm long, bright orange-red flowers. It differs also in ecology, growing in wet lowland forests with the level of the ground water up to 15 cm over the earth also in summer. 
4180340| During the pollen analyses of Bohemian peat and limnic sediments numerous empty cell walls of some chlorococcal algae, particulary of the genus Pediastrum, were found. This material was taxonomically determined and the ecology of different taxa was reconstructed and compared with the present one. The greatest difference was found in Pediastrum integrum and P. kawraiskyi occurring commonly in Central Europe in the lakes during the Late-Glacial and Postglacial Periods but very rarely at present. Our results were compared with some data given in the literature. /// Eine grssere Anzahl von Znobien und auch einzelner Zellen der Grnalgen, die bei den palobotanischen Forschungen in den Ablagerungen der bhmischen Torflager blich gefunden werden, hat Anlass zu deren eingehenderem Studium gegeben. In den fr die Pollenanalyse aufbereiteten Prparaten wurden die einzelnen Algen determiniert und hnlich wie die Pollenkrner gezhlt. Der erzielten Angaben bediente man sich dann in den palogeobotanischen Arbeiten vor allem fr die Rekonstruktion der Entwicklung der Lager und ihrer Pflanzendecke. Qualitativ bunt und an Algen quantitativ reich waren vor allem die Seeablagerungen, die es dann ermglichten, eine eingehende Vorstellung ber das Vorkommen der einzelten Arten in den vergangenen Perioden zu gewinnen. Vorlufig konnten nur Arten mit resistenter Sporopolenin-Zellenwand, die sich im Laufe der Jahrtausende nicht zersetzten und die auch die chemische Azetolyse-Behanlung der Proben vetragen haben, verfolgt werden. Angaben und zahlreiche Diskussionen ber das Vorkommen von Algen in den lteren geologischen Formationen kommen besonders in der geologischen Literatur fters vor. In unserem Beitrag befassen wir uns vor allem mit der Auswertung der konkreten Funde aus den Sptglazial- und Holozn ablagerungen der bhmischen Lokalitten. Bei allen festgestellten Arten und Varietten wurde ihr einstmaliges Vorkommen mit dem heutigen verglichen. Es wurden ihre Umweltsansprche verfolgt und nachgeforscht, wie ihre kologischen Ansprche fr die Rekonstruktion der rtlichen Verhltnisse der einzelnen Lager fr die lteren Perioden gentzt werden knnten. Es wurde festgestellt, dass sich einige Algenarten den gegenwrtigen anthropisch genderten Verhltnissen des Wassermilieus voll angepasst haben. Auch in den knstlich stark eutrophisierten Wasserbecken berwiegen heute Pediastrum boryanum, P. duplex und Tetraedron minimum, deren reichliches Vorkommen auch in den vergangenen Holoznzeitabschnitten, wo es whrend der warmen Phasen zur natrlichen Eutrophisierung der Gewsser kam, nachgewiesen wurde. Hierbei ist P. boryanum als der lteste Vertreter der Gattung Pediastrum mit breiter kologischer Valenz anzusehen. Im subfossilen Material wurden jedoch im grsseren Umfang auch Arten gefunden, die man heute auf dem Gebiete der Tschechoslowakei berhaupt nicht vermerkt hat oder die nur selten vorkommen. Ein typisches Beispiel dafr ist die Art P. kawraiskyi, die ab Sptglazial bis zum Mittelholozn in dem khlen und reinen Wasser der verwachsenden Seen hufig war; in der Tschechoslowakei kommt sie heute nicht vor. hnlich kann man auch P. integrum bewerten. In den vergangenen Zeitabschnitten drfte auch die in strker eutrophen Gewssern wachsende Art P. simplex hufiger gewesen sein. Vom taxonomischen Standpunkt aus wurden bei den gefunden Algen keine morphologischen Abweichungen im Vergleich zu den heute vorkommenden Arten festgestellt. Die bisherigen Ergebnisse haben nachgewiesen, dass ein gut bestimmtes Algenmaterial bei der palogeobotanischen Rekonstruktion der rtlichen Verhltnisse einzelner Lager bedeutend helfen kann. Gleichzeitig bietet es auch interessante Ergebnisse den Algologen, denen es bei dem Studium der Geschichte und der einzelnen Algenarten dienen kann. 
4180893| Sagittaria lancifolia L. a perennial helophyte growing in shallow waters has asexual reproduction by rhizomes and sexual reproduction by achenes. We studied the morphological characteristics of achenes related to its dispersion, some factors affecting its germination and the development stages and growth of seedlings. This species produces many achenes, and disperses through epizoochory and hydrochory. Achenes germinate on light only. 100% germination was obtained at 25 C. Under conditions of inundation the germination period decreases, and the percentage of germination increases when compared to achenes with or without imbibition. Achenes in anaerobic conditions have reduced germination. The growth of seedlings of S. lancifolia was affected by the temperature: each organ of the seedlings grows differently in dependence upon this factor. For example, roots grow faster during the early stages of the seedlings. 
4180072|Six different leaf indexes, indicating the anatomical and ecophysiological features in leaves, were used for characterizing the three principal layers (tree, shrub and herb) of an oak-hornbeam forest in southwest Slovakia, Czechoslovakia. The most pronounced differences in the leaf indexes followed were found between those at the active surface of the forest canopy (sun leaves of tall trees) and those in the herb layer. Differences exist between individual layers as well as between species within each layer. They should be taken into consideration in ecological and ecophysiological studies and in modelling forest ecosystems.
4179744|A study is presented of germination in Potamogeton angustifolius, P. acutifolius, P. obtusifolius, P. crispus, P. lucens, P. natans, P. pectinatus, P. pusillus and P. trichoides, and the possibility of overcoming dormancy in these species under laboratory conditions. Three of the species, viz. Potamogeton pectinatus, P. pusillus and P. trichoides have been examined in greater detail. Impermeability of the fruit coat appears to be the main reason for the dormancy of these species. The lowest percentage of the impermeable achenes has been recorded in Potamogeton crispus.
4180114| In NW-Bhmen kommen fast alle bisher bekannten Filipendula ulmaria-Gesellschaften vor, u. zw. Filipendulo-Epilobietum hirsuti Sougnez 1957, Filipendulo-Geranietum palustris W. Koch 1926, Lysimachio vulgaris-Filipenduletum Bal.-tul. 1978, Valeriano officinalis-Filipenduletum Siss. in Westhoff et al. 1946, Chaerophyllo hirsuti-Filipenduletum Niemann, Heinrich et Hilbig 1973 und Cirsio heterophylli-Filipenduletum Neuhusl et Neuhuslov-Novotn 1975. Die Pflanzenzusammensetzung dieser Assoziationen steht mit den bestimmten Eigenschaften des Standortes in engem Zusammenhang - es treten hier vornehmlich die Hhenlage, geologische und klimatische Verhltnisse, primre Waldgesellschaften, trophischer Zustand sowie phyto-geographische Verhltnisse in den Vordergrund. /// The study is concerned with synecological and phytosociological characteristics of Filipendulenion communities in NW. Bohemia. (For a survey of associations under study, see p. 229.) Important information has been obtained from the evaluation of maps showing the relation between forest and geological mapping units and climatic data on the one hand, and the presence of Filipendula ulmaria communities on the other, and from the evaluation of soil and ground water analyses. The distribution centre of most Filipendula ulmaria communities in NW. Bohemia lies in Eu- and Subhercynicum. Two groups can be distinguished there. The first, with optimum occurrence in lower altitudes (in cca 390 to 465
4181046| In the Brdy Mts. and their surroundings twenty moist meadow associations were ascertained, viz. Chaerophyllo hirsuti-Calthetum, Scirpetum sylvatici, Scirpo-Juncetum filiformis, Angelico-Cirsietum palustris, Polygono-Cirsietum palustris, Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli, Deschampsio-Cirsietum heterophylli, Polygono-Trollietum altissimi, Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei, Scirpo-Cirsietum cani, Filipendulo-Geranietum palustris, Lysimachio vulgaris-Filipenduletum, Chaerophyllo hirsuti-Filipenduletum, Valeriano (procurrentis)-Filipenduletum, Trollio altissimi-Filipenduletum, Iridetum sibiricae, Alopecuretum pratensis, Sanguisorbo officinalis-Polygonetum bistortae, Sanguisorbo-Festucetum commutatae and Scorzonero-Molinietum caeruleae. In most of these communities also the quality of the site was studied. The great diversity of the meadows under study was found to depend, above all, on the water regime and the chemical properties of the soil. Another cause, however, is the geographical position of the area and altitude of the Brdy Mt. /// Im Brdy-Bergland wurden innerhalb der Feuchtwiesen insgesamt zwanzig definierbare Assoziationen und eine Gesellschaft unterschieden - betrifft die Verbnde Calthion s. l., Alopecurion und Molinion. Hinsichtlich der Subassoziationen gibt es im Gebiet mehr als 30 verschiedene Ausbildungen (siehe bersicht auf S. 5-6). Diese grosse Variabilitt der Molinietalia-Feuchtwiesen ist den Meereshhen und der geographischen Lage des Untersuchungsgebietes zuzuschreiben. In der submontanen Stufe gibt es phytogeographische Bindungen des Brdy-Berglandes einerseits an die in NW-Bhmen liegenden hercynischen Grenzgebirge, anderseits an das den Alpen benachbarte umava (Bhmerwald). Deswegen wachsen hier auf einem relativ kleinen Raum nebeneinander: weit verbreitete Feuchtwiesengesellschaften, Gesellschaften, deren Hauptverbreitung im Hercynicum liegt, Gesellschaften, die bisher aus dem alpenkarpatischen Bogen (einschliesslich Randgebiete) bekannt sind und eine Gesellschaft mit pannonischer Verbreitungstendenz (Seite XX). Dagegen fehlen hier die ausgesprochen atlantisch getnten Gesellschaften (betrifft vor allem das Crepido-Juncetum acutiformis Oberdorfer 1957 und Junco filiformis-Polygonetum Bal.-Tul. 1981). Was die kologie betrifft, zeigen die Bodeneigenschaften der meisten untersuchten Gesellschaften im allgemeinen analoge Parameter wie in anderen frher untersuchten Gebieten (NW-Bhmen, umava, Jizersk hory). Eine Ausnahme bilden jene Gesellschaften, die in unserem Gebiet in anderen Subassoziationen entwickelt werden, z. B. das Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei. An die nhrstoffreichsten Bden ist das untersuchte Chaerophyllo-Filipenduletum gebunden, dann folgen Polygono-Cirsietum palustris caricetosum davallianae, Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei und die Trollius altissimus-Assoziationen (betrifft vornehmlich den Ca
4179501| Bei der Klassifizierung des Thlaspi alpestre subsp. alpestre (Syn.: T. brachypetalum Jord. 1846) und des T. a. subsp. sylvestre (Jord.) Hook. fil. in der Rangstufe der selbstndigen Arten muss die erste Pflanze Thlaspi alpestre (L.) L. 1763, die andere T. caerulescens J. et C. Presl 1819 heissen; dieser Name besitzt die Prioritt vor T. sylvestre Jord. 1846. Die von der Autorin im Rahmen der letztgenannten Art unterschiedenen Unterarten (ausser der Nominatunterart) fhren die Namen: T. c. subsp. calaminare (Lej.) Dvokov comb. nova und T. c. subsp. tatrense (Zapa.) Dvokov comb. nova. 
4179757| Im Rahmen der systematischen Erforschung der Fagetalia-Gesellschaften der Tschechoslowakei bearbeitete die Verfasserin die Schlucht- und Hangwlder in den Durchbruchstlern und Querschluchten im mittleren und westlichen Teil des Gebirges Hrub Jesenk (Hohes Gesenke) und im anliegenden Teil des Gebirges Rychlebsk hory (Reichensteiner Gebirge). Es wurden hier folgende Syntaxa beschrieben: Arunco-Aceretum crepidetosum paludosae, A.-A. abietetosum und Aceri-Fagetum, Polystichum lobatum Ausbildung. Diese Waldgesellschaften wurden von phytoznologischen und kologischen Gesichtspunkt aus analysiert. /// In the valleys of the mountain rivers Divok Desn, Merta, Brann and Bl as well as in their tributary ravines in the Hrub Jesenk mountains (Moravia) the permanent forest communities Arunco-Aceretum and Aceri-Fagetum were investigated. In each community the cenological characteristics, distribution, synecology, brief evaluation from the viewpoint of forestry and literary comparison were considered. The Arunco-Aceretum in this territory has not yet been submitted to investigation. It occurs here in two subassociations viz. Arunco-Aceretum abietetosum und Arunco-Aceretum crepidetosum paludosae. A.-A. abietetosum is distributed at an altitude of about 550-600 m, the A.-A. crepidetosum at an altitude about 600-700 m above sea level. Both subassociations colonize lower parts of the steep rocky slopes above the mountain rivers. The soil types of these subassociations is ranker-braunerde or stony braunerde with partially shifted soil surface. A.-A. abietetosum is floristically differentiated by the higher frequency of some species of the oak-hornbeam forests. The Aceri-Fagetum represents a permanent forest community distributed in the zone of the mountain beech forests or in the transitional zone between the mountain beech forests and climax spruce forests at an altitude of 650-1 200 m. Its occurence in the investigated territory is determined by the specific mesoclimatic and soil conditions. This association in the Hrub Jesenk mountains has already been investigated by Hartmann et Jahn (1967). The Aceri-Fagetum, form with Polystichum lobatum as newly described in this paper, is bound to the steep slopes of the small narrow shady ravines at altitudes of 700-900 m a. s. l. Compared with the typical subassociation with Petasites albus and Chaerophyllum hirsutum Hartmann et Jahn 1967 this community differs floristically by a high frequency of the ferns Polystichum lobatum, P. braunii, Phegopteris polypodioides, P. dryopteris as well as by several species of mountain herbrich beech forests, e.g. Circaea alpina and Veronica montana. From the standpoint of ecology it differs by higher water draining and aeration of the soil-profile which never contains the gley-horizon. 
4180338| Das syntaxonomische Einordnungsproblem der Ruderalgesellschaften mit den Dominanten Carduus acanthoides und Echinops sphaerocephalus lsten wir mit Hilfe der deduktiven Methode syntaxonomischer Klassifikation (cf. Kopeck et Hejn 1978). Die Basalgesellschaft Carduus acanthoides-[Onopordetalia] kommt auf Erdaufschttungen und dpltzen vor, wo sie an Therophytengesellschaften der Ordnung Sisymbrietalia anknpft. Die Basalgesellschaft Echinops sphaerocephalus-[Onopordetalia/Arrhenatheretalia] finden wir im Untersuchungsgebiet verstreut an Strassenwllen und Flussdmmen auf dem Alluvium des Vh-Flusses. Sie hat eine Grenzstellung, was der ausgeglichene Anteil von Arten der Klasse Artemisietea (incl. der Ordnung Onopordetalia) und der Klasse Molinio-Arrhenatheretea (incl. der Ordnung Arrhenatheretalia) in der floristischen Zusammensetzung dieser Gesellschaft bezeugen. /// Both plant communities described are composed of species of a broad ecological valency. It was not possible to determine their characteristic taxa in the study area, so the deductive method of syntaxonomical classification (in the sense of Kopeck et Hejn 1978) has been applied. Two communities were established, namely the basal community Carduus acanthoides-[Onopordetalia] and the basal community Echinops sphaerocephalus-[Onopordetalia/Arrhenatheretalia] as well. The former is largely distributed in the area under study. It can be found on heaps and bare abandoned sites. The latter occurs scatteredly in the region of the alluvium of the river Vh, mostly on dikes along roads and the river itself. A high portion of the species of the order Arrhenatheretalia in the floristic composition indicates its syntaxonomical position at the boundary between Onopordetalia and Arrhenatheretalia. 
4180969|The present paper describes six species of agarics occurring in Kashmir Valley - Lentinus lepideus, Lentinus strigosus, Pleurotus platypus, Clitocybe infudibulformis, Conchomyces bursaeformis and Leucopaxillus albissumus. Three species - L. lepideus, C. infundibuliformis and C. bursaeformis, are reported for the first time from India.
4180221|The authors observations on Sagittaria sagittifolia L. at 100 natural localities were compared with data in the literature. The habitat of the species is between 0 and 0.8 m of water depth; flowering and fruiting are optimal between 0.1 and 0.8 m.
4180772|The taxonomy of the "Cardamine pratensis complex" in the Asian territory of the USSR is dealt with. After critical analysis of the materials stored in various herbaria in Leningrad (LE, LEU) and Moscow (MHA, MW) three species, C. nymanii Gand., C. dentata Schult., and C. pratensis L. s. str. have been recognised pointing out their intraspecific variations and geographical distribution within the territory concerned.
4181027| Vegetation changes in seminatural plant communities in the Beliansk Tatry Mts. have been studied three decades after grazing or mowing. The changes are slow, they have reached the association level only after about 20 years. 
4179945| In the present paper morphological features of hybrids from crossing of four species of Rosa sect. Caninae (R. canina L., R. zalana Wiesb., R. rubiginosa L. and R. sherardii Davies) with R. rugosa Thumbg. (sect. Cinnamomeae) and their heredity are described. F
4179927| A new classification, using the Zrich-Montpellier procedures, is presented for the grassland, thicket and forest vegetation of the Accra Plains, Ghana. Newly described syntaxa comprise 1 class (Vetiverietea), 4 orders, 9 alliances, 16 associations and 16 subassociations. Altogether 350 species of vascular plants were recorded in 140 relevs. Correlations are made between syntaxa and climatic, edaphic and anthropogenic factors. The floristic distinctness of the area is assessed: 4 endemic species and about 40 widely disjunct species occur. Although the majority of species are of Guinean affinity, the plant communities of the Accra Plains are unique in the context of African tropical vegetation. 
4181389|The results of a taxonomic study of Cardamine flexuosa With., C. glauca Spreng. ex DC., C. graeca L., C. hirsuta L., C. impatiens L., C. parviflora L., C. resedifolia L., and C. trifolia L. from the Carpathians and Pannonia are presented. Full synonymy, lectotypifications, descriptions, chromosome numbers, taxonomic history, notes on variation, distribution data and ecological notes are provided.
4179610| Pyrola carpatica Holub et Ksa is described as a new species in the series Incarnatae Ksa and is compared with other representatives of the series and with Pyrola rotundifolia L., a species with which it is usually confused. A more detailed note is devoted to the nomenclatural analysis of "Pyrola intermedia", a name which has been used for the species by several authors. /// Das in den hochgelegenen Lagen der Karpaten vorkommende Taxon der Gattung Pyrola L. unterscheidet sich wie von P. norvegica Knaben, mit welcher Art dieses Taxon verwechselt wurde, so auch von P. rotundifolia L., bzw. von seiner sandliebenden Kstenrasse subsp. maritima (Kenyon) Warb., mit der es manchmal verbunden wurde. Auf Grund der morphologischen Unterschiede und der geographischen Isolation von den verwandten Taxa klassifizieren die Autoren die karpatischen Pyrola-Pflanzen als eine neue Art unter dem Namen Pyrola carpatica Holub et Ksa. Diese Art gehrt zur Typus-Untergattung und zur Typus-Sektion der Gattung Pyrola L., und in die Reihe ser. Incarnatae Ksa. P. carpatica stellt einen karpatischen Endemit vor, mit Entwicklungswurzeln im mittelsibirischen Raum. Ihr Vorkommen ist auf die Lagen oberhalb der Waldgrenze gebunden. Der Name "Pyrola intermedia Schleicher", der frher manchmal fr diese neue Art angewendet wurde, kann in der botanischen Nomenklatur nicht mehr bentzt werden, weil er einen "nomen nudum" vorstellt. Nach der Analyse der Problematik des Namens Pyrola intermedia gelangten die Autoren zar Ansicht, dass dieser Name zum erstenmal von einigen italienischen Autoren (hchstwahrscheinlich der erste war Arcangeli) fr die Art Pyrola media Sw. gltig verffentlicht wurde, in deren Synonymie er deshalb eingereiht werden muss. In der Rangstufe der Unterart ist das Epitheton "intermedia" in einer abweichenden taxonomischen Auffassung zugnglich als bei den italienischen Autoren; seine Anwendung hngt in diesem Fall von der Typisierung des Namens Thelaia intermedia Alef. 1856 vllig ab. 
4180801|On a newly created road bank in Eastern Bohemia, during the first 7 years vegetation developed at the highest rate in the lower zone of the slope, due to favourable moisture and the supply of nutrients. On the upper slope succession was slowed down by multiple disturbance, while plants in the ditch were stressed by excessive flooding.
4180672| The aquatic macrophyte vegetation of eastern and north-eastern Bohemia has been grouped into 40 communities. The description is given of the natural conditions (climate, orography, geology, pedology, hydrology, water and soil chemical analyses) and of the geographical distribution of these communities. The main emphasis is placed on the species composition of the communities, treated and classified according to the methods of the Zrich-Montpellier phytosociological school. Two new associations are described: Callitrichetum hermaphroditicae and Potametum zizii. The macrophyte communities still belong to the best preserved natural vegetation of the region investigated. 
4180153| Pyrus spinosa Forsk. (= P. amygdaliformis Vill.) kreuzt sich in betrchtlichem Masse mit P. pyraster Burgsd. und mit P. communis L. Es wurden drei Hybriden beschrieben, die zwar weniger, aber gut keimende Samen haben. Potentiell sind in der bulgarischen Population von P. spinosa Merkmale aller infraspezifischen Taxa vertreten, doch nur zwei von ihnen kommen in grsserem Masse vor, das Vorkommen der weiteren drei ist nur gering. Merkmale des brigen infraspezifischen Taxon kommen nur in Kombination mit Merkmalen anderer Taxa bei bergangsformen vor. Vorlufig ist auch die Verbreitung von P. spinosa und ihrer Hybriden in Bulgarien angegeben. /// Pyrus spinosa Forsk. (= P. amygdaliformis Vill.) hybridizes to a great extent with P. pyraster Burgsd. and with P. communis L. For example, in southwestern Bulgaria near the village Lozenica 13,6% hybrids of the total number of pear- trees were ascertained. The hybrids in most cases are more or less intermediary. In questionable cases the papillae on the epidermis of the lower leaf side can be used as a good diacritical character for verification of the hybrid origin, and the accessory cells surrounding the quard cells of stomata as well. The number of seeds in the fruits of hybrid plants is a little lower than in the fruits of P. spinosa. Also the differences between individual hybrid trees are more distinct than in trees of P. spinosa. The seeds of hybrid plants mostly germinate very well; however, hybrids with worse germinating seeds also occur. An analysis of descendants has proved a great extent of hybridization. The descendants of all plants of P. spinosa evaluated in detail were coincidentally hybrid, showing that the trees were pollinated with the pollen of P. pyraster or P. communis, or that these plants owing to repeated reciprocal pollination were very similar to P. spinosa. However, they were not homozygous, and an introgression difficult to distinguish was therefore the case here. In other cases, of course, descendants of P. spinosa were found, which did not split. The descendants of hybrids split in all cases, proving the correctness of determination of hybrid plants. Three hybrids have been described in German: P. pyraster Burgsd.  P. spinosa Forks., P. communis L.  P. spinosa Forsk. and P. communis L.  P. pyraster Burgsd.  P. spinosa Forsk. In the population of P. spinosa in southwestern Bulgaria the characters of all infraspecific taxa are potentially represented. However, only two of them, viz. var. spinosa and var. microphylla f. microphylla, occur more frequently. The next three of them (var. diapulidis, var. oblongifolia and var. microphylla f. lobata) are only slightly represented. In the other plants two or even more infraspecific characters occur; they are therefore the transitional forms. Not only in the whole territory under investigation, but also at one locality near the village of Lozenica some infraspecific taxa and the transitional forms grow together, so that panmixis must inevitably take place. However, the whole distribution area of P. spinosa is relatively extensive, and it is not known for certain whether a stronger differentiation of infraspecific taxa has not already taken place in other parts of the distribution area. The preliminary data on distribution of P. spinosa and of its hybrids in Bulgaria is also mentioned here. 
4180841| Five new foliicolous species of Dimerella Trevisan (Gyalectaceae) are reported from a collection of lichens from Tanzania: D. flavicans sp. n., D. pocsii sp. n., D. subdilucida sp. n. ad int., D. tanzanica, sp. n. and D. usambarensis sp. n. A determination key is provided to all the known African foliicolous species. /// Ein gemeinsames Bestimmungsschlssel der aus Afrika bisher bekannten sowie in dieser Arbeit neu aufgestellten foliicolen Dimerella-Arten wird vorgelegt. Die Diagnosen und taxonomischen Kommentare zu den 4 neuen Arten (D. flavicans, D. pocsii, D. tanzanica, und D. usambarensis) werden prsentiert, eine Art (D. subdilucida) wird ad interim vorgestellt. Die bei den meisten Arten gefundenen Pycnosporen liefern wichtige Merkmale fr die Art-Charakteristik. Alle neuen Arten werden mit schematischen Zeichnungen dargestellt. 
4179587|The second part of the study is connected with the first part which comprised all the available data concerning the distribution of Rhynchospora alba in Czechoslovakia. It presents the results of cenological and synecological research, summarizes the cenotic and habitat characteristics of the species and, on the basis of results thus obtained, attempts at evaluating the diagnostic value of Rhynchospora alba and syntaxonomic position of its communities.
4180676|Thirteen species and one variety of Endophragmiella Sutton and three species of Phragmocephala Mason et Hughes collected by the author in Czechoslovakia, and occasionally in other regions of Europe are described and illustrated. Four new species and one new variety are described in Endophragmiella - E. aseptata Hol.-Jech., E. fatrensis Hol.-Jech., E. ramificata Hol.-Jech., E. similis Hol.-Jech. and E. uniseptata (Ellis) Hughes var. pusilla Hol.-Jech.
4180817| A new intergeneric hybrid  Dactylodenia vitosensis Jagieo (Dactylorhiza cordigera (Fries) So  Gymnadenia conopsea (L.) R. Br.) is described. It was found in 1985 in the National Park of Mt. Vitoa near Sofia (Bulgaria, Eastern Carpathians, alt. 1550 m). 
4181515| 267 published and 32 unpublished phytosociological relevs from North Korea were synthesized. As a result, a revision of the units of the ruderal and segetal terrestrial vegetation known so far, and a discussion of their relationship to the analogous Japanese and European vegetation are presented. 17 associations and 4 communities at association level have been distinguished. They are assigned to the classes Bidentetea (Bidentetalia, Panico-Bidention), Stellarietea mediae (Commelinetalia, Cassio-Phyllanthion, Cosmo--Humulion), Plantaginetea majoris (Plantaginetalia asiaticae, Plantaginion asiaticae) and Miscanthetea sinensis (Caricetalia nervatae, Zoysion japonicae). 
4180891|Energy structure and dynamics of the primary producers of a protected grassland situated at Berhampur, Orissa was investigated. Concentration and standing crop of energy during different months of the year showed a great variation. The system transfer function and efficiency of the grassland were estimated.
4181556| The rupicolous vegetation of the Asplenietea trichomanis in the south-western Iberian Peninsula is analysed using the methods of the Zrich-Montpellier School. Phytosociological tables, and biogeographical, ecological and floristic data are given for a number of syntaxa. A phytosociological synopsis of the studied vegetation was made for the entire region. Four new syntaxa are described: the Coincyo longirostri-Dianthetum lusitani, Jasiono marianae-Dianthetum lusitani jasionetosum tomentosae, Digitali thapsi-Dianthetum lusitani conopodietosum ramosi and Sedo hirsuti-Polypodietum cambrici polypodietosum interjecti. 
4179840| Die siebente Studie aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) enthlt die taxonomische Bearbeitung des Subg. Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. (Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum.) in Europa (inkl. Kleinasien) und Bemerkungen zu den nordamerikanischen Arten, die eingehend von Schuster (1969) bearbeitet wurden. Im genannten Gebiet kommen 8 Arten vor, u. zw. J. crenuliformis Aust., J. evansii nom. nov., J. fossombronioides Aust., J. hyalina Lyell in Hook., J. obovata Nees, J. paroica (Schiffn.) Grolle, J. subelliptica (Lindb. ex Kaal.) Lev. und J. subtilissima (Schiffn.) Grolle. Alle Arten gehren zu der Sektion Chascostoma (Lindb.) Va. /// This seventh study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys to the European (incl. Asia Minor) and North American species of the subgenus Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. of the genus Jungermannia L. emend. Dum., based on sterile and fertile plants. 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, type, exsiccata, ecological notes, distribution, material examined, taxonomic notes, variability and relationships of five species of the subgenus Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. growing in the above cited area. The species J. crenuliformis Aust., J. evansii Va (nomen novum for Nardia obscura Evans) and J. fossombronioides Aust. have been treated by Schuster (1969); all three species are distributed in eastern part of North America only. 3. Discussion of all infraspecific taxa on the basis of the concept of habitat modifications. Taxonomically, J. crenuliformis Aust., J. evansii Va (nom. nov.), J. fossombronioides Aust., J. hyalina Lyell in Hook., J. obovata Nees, J. paroica (Schiffn.) Grolle, J. subelliptica (Lindb. ex Kaal.) Lev. and J. subtilissima (Schiffn.) Grolle are shown to be good species. Some other taxa proved to be habitat modifications or are referred to the synonymy. 
4180896| The article comprises three subsequently published studies of the taxonomy of Cuban cyanophyte/cyanobacterial flora: (4) Lyngbyopsis willei: This oscillatorialean genus and species, described by Gardner (1927) from mountain creeks in Puerto Rico, was found more than 50 years later in similar localities in Cuba. The morphological variability of the Cuban populations is described and similarity with the genus Schizothrix (sect. Inactis) discussed. - (5) Cylindrospermum-species: The morphological variability of twenty-one Cylindrospermum-populations collected in Cuba was studied, documented by graphical methods and compared with the published data. Four new taxa were recognized (C. minutissimum v. rinoi, C. zonatum, C. bourrellyi, and C. desikacharyi). The other populations belong to the variation ranges of C. breve, C. minutissimum, C. michailovskoense, and C. muscicola v. kashmiriense. - (6) Gomphosphaerioideae-species: Fifty eight populations (9 species) of the subfamily Gomphosphaerioideae (Microcystaceae, Chroococcales) from freshwater biotopes of Cuba were evaluated: Four planktic species with a probable cosmopolitan distribution were found (Coelosphaerium kuetzinginianum, C. minutissimum, Snowella lacustris and Coelomoron pusillus), and from the genus Coelomoron Buell two new species, C. microcystoides and C. vestitus were described. The tropical planktic species Woronichinia fremyi forms occasionally water blooms in larger reservoirs. Two tropical species from the genus Gomphosphaeria Ktz. were recognized, G. multiplex (Nyg.) c. n. and G. semen-vitis sp. n. 
4180150| A species-rich flora consisting of about 350 species of vascular plants and 200 of bryophytes has developed in the Velk Kotlina cirque, as a result of biotope diversity and uninterrupted Postglacial evolution. A longlasting interaction of the species pool with a variety of habitats covering about 1 km
4179798| Experimental stratification and sowing-out of achenes of Chaerophyllum bulbosum L., Clematis vitalba L. and Hedera helix L., collected at various periods of the year, confirmed the opinion that, in species with hemibradysporic to bradysporic dissemination, the after-ripening of embryos takes place not only within the soil and during stratification, but under favourable conditions also directly on the mother plant. In seeds with dry pericarp, the after-ripening takes place under the influence of atmospheric moisture, while in fleshly fruits the same process develops under the influence of water absorbed from the fleshy part of the pericarp. /// Die Voraussetzung, dass bei den Samen mit unvollkommen entwickeltem Embryo die Embryos nicht nur in Boden, sondern bei gnstigen Bedingungen der Temperatur und Feuchtigkeit auch an der Muterpflanze nachreifen knnen, wurde an drei Arten mit hemibradysporischer bis bradysporischer Dissemination nachgeprft, u. zw. an Chaerophyllum bulbosum (Daucaceae), Clematis vitalba (Ranunculaceae) und Hedera helix (Araliaceae). Die zwei ersten Arten besitzen trockenen, die dritte Art fleischigen Perikarp. Die Diasporen von Chaerophyllum bulbosum und Clematis vitalba wurden den spontan oder subspontan wachsenden, die von Hedera helix den gepflanzten Pflanzen entnommen. Die Diasporen wurden nach und nach in verschiedenen Jahreszeiten, im Einklang mit der Natur jeder Art und mit anderen Umstnden, gesammelt. Zur Nachprfung der Voraussetzung ber die Nachreife der Embryos an der Mutterpflanze wurden folgende Versuche durchgefhrt: 1. Die Diasporen wurden bei verschiedenen Temperaturbedingungen stratifiziert und die Keimung wurde unmittelbar whrend der Stratifikation verfolgt. In den Tabellen sind die Ergebnisse jener Alternativen angefhrt, deren Temperaturbedingungen sich als geeignetste fr die Nachreife jeder Arten erwiesen. 2. An der Versuchsparzelle in Prhonice wurden die Frhlingsaussaaten von Clematis vitalba durchgefhrt. 3. Die Stadien der Embryos von Clematis vitalba und Hedera helix wurden auch an den Lngsschnitten der Samen studiert. Die Ergebnisse der Versuche mit der Stratifikation von Diasporen jeder Art, (siehe Tab. 2, 3, 5 und Abb. 1-3) haben in vllig besttigt, dass das Wachstum von Embryos der Arten mit hemibradysporischer bis bradysporischer Dissemination nicht nur im Boden und whrend der Stratifikation, sondern auch unmittelbar an der Mutterpflanze vor sich geht, und zwar in den Samen mit sowohl trockenem als auch fleischigem Perikarp. Die Nachreife von Embryos nach der Reife der Samen an der Mutterpflanze bei natrlichen Bedingungen hat zur Folge, dass  alle Samen (der Arten mit fleischigem Perikarp) oder ein Teil von ihnen (bei den Arten mit trockenen Frchten), die im Boden nicht berwinterten, sondern an der Mutterpflanze verblieben das nchste Jahr schon im Frhling keimen. Dies wurde auch besttigt durch die Ergebnisse des Versuches mit der Aussaat von Achenen von Clementis vitalba, die in verschiedenen Jahreszeiten gesammelt worden waren: whrend die im Dezember gesammelten Achenen seit Anfang Mai bis Ende Juni gar nicht keimten, keimten die seit Februar bis Mai gesammelten Achenen mit ca. 50 Prozent. Die Entwicklung der Form und Grsse der Embryos von Hedera helix und Clematis vitalba, die auch die Richtigkeit der Veraussetzung ber die Mglichkeit der Nachreife der Embryos unmittelbar an der Mutterpflanze nach der Samenreife besttigt hat, ist in Abb. 4 u. 5 schematisch veranschaulicht. Bei den Samen mit trockenem Perikarp kommt es zur Nachreife von Embryos an der Mutterpflanze unter der Voraussetzung, dass die Temperaturbedingungen gnstig sind, unter dem Einfluss der Absorption von Luftfeuchtigkeit, bei den Samen mit fleischigem Perikarp unter dem Einfluss der Absorption des im fleischigen Teil des Perikarps enthaltenen Wassers. Die Nachreife-Stufe der Embryos in trockenen Frchten hngt von der Art und Verteilung der Niederschlge in einzelnen Jahren, vom Temperaturgang whrend der Anschwellung der Samen sowie von der Anschwellungsstufe und Reifungsschnelligkeit der Embryos, sowohl bei einzelnen Arten als auch bei individuellen Samen, ab. Bei den Samen mit fleischigem Perikarp, wo die Samen stets angeschwollen sind, ohne Abwechslung von Anschwellungen und Austrockungen, ist die Nachreife von Samen nur von dem Temperaturgang abhngig. Infolgedessen ist die Nachreife von Embryos an der Mutterpflanze bei den Frchte mit fleischigem Perikarp mehr begnstigt (abgesehen von den Fllen, wo das Perisperm undurschlssig ist) als bei den Samen mit trockenem Perikarp. Dies wurde auch durch die Ergebnisse der Keimung whrend der Stratifikation einzelner Arten nachgewiesen (siehe Tab. 2, 3, 5). 
4180506| Twenty new nomenclatural combinations are proposed for various taxa. Haloscias Fries 1846 (aff. Ligusticum L. 1753), Hylebia (Koch) Fourr. 1868 (aff. Stellaria L. 1753) and Stuckenia Brner 1912 (aff. Potamogeton L. 1753) are accepted as separate genera, Acetosella (Meisn.) Fourr. 1869 is included in Acetosa Mill. 1754. 
4181087|Polycnemum majus A. Br. (Chenopodiaceae) represents one of the Euro-Asian species disappearing as a consequence of man's activities. The paper presents a brief survey of its morphology, distribution (with emphasis on the W part of Czechoslovakia), and taxonomy. The ecological characterization of communities with occurrence of P. majus is given. From the karyological point of view, P. majus represents a further case of hexaploidy in the Chenopodiaceae family, hitherto known in approximately 10% of genera. The basic chromosome number of x = 9 is proposed, with respect to chromosome numbers ascertained in P. majus for the first time (2n = 54) and in P. arvense (2n = 18). The annual hexaploid species P. majus was proved to be potentially self-fertile.
4181437| The montane coniferous forests and their degraded syntaxa included either in the Quercetalia ilicis or in the Quercetalia pubescenti-petraeae of the Meso- up to the Mountain-Mediterranean vegetation belts of Mount Killini, have been studied using the Braun-Blanquet method with 69 phytosociological relevs. The application of classification and ordination methods resulted in the recognition of seven forest and two scrub plant communities. These communities could be arranged along an altitudinal gradient. Their syntaxonomy and structure are described and the present horizontal and vertical arrangement of the coniferous syntaxa is mapped. From these syntaxa, 3 new associations and 1 new subassociation are described. The main factors influencing the differences in floristic composition, are altitude and human impact resulting in degradation of the coniferous forest associations. In addition, differences in soil parameters like pH, the presence of organic matter and nutrients appear to be important. Information on the site characteristics, structure and syndynamical position of the communities is given. 
4181371|Two new species of foliicolous lichens from New Zealand are described and illustrated. The most characteristic trait of Dimerella flava sp. nov. (Gyalectaceae) is its pale yellow tubular pycnidia, which clothe the algal-containing thallus on the upper surface of leaves and sometimes also on thin twigs. Porinula setifera sp. nov. (incertae sedis) is closely related to the type species of Porinula, P. tanzanica, but differs in having hyaline setae on its perithecia and mostly simple paraphysoids.
4179621| The generic name Fallopia Adans. 1763 is analysed from the point of view of its taxonomic identity and typified by Polygonum 'scandens L. 1753. By this typification it is taxonomically identical with Bilderdykia Dum. 1827 and must replace that name. The genus Fallopia Adans. is defined by comparison with related genera; it includes 9 species in two sections, and 1 hybrid; new nomenclatural combinations are proposed for these taxa. /// Der Autor nimmt als richtig an, die zu breit aufgefasste Gattung Polygonum L. in mehrere natrlicher abgegrenzte Gattungen einzuteilen. In der Tschechoslowakei sind in der einheimischen und einheimisch gewordenen Flora Arten folgender Gattungen vertreten: Polygonum L. restr. Hedberg; Persicaria Mill.; Bistorta Scop.; Aconogon (Meisn.) Reichenb.; Bilderdykia Dum.; Reynoutria Houytt.; Fagopyrum Mill. Im Umkreise der Gattung Bilderdykia Dum. 1827 existiert ein lterer Name, Fallopia Adans. 1763, dessen nomenklatorische Analyse durchgefhrt werden musste, damit die richtige Bentzung dieses Namens bestimmt werden konnte. Nach einer eingehenden Analyse des Protologes, die eine taxonomische Uneinheitlichkeit von Adanson's Gattung erwiesen hat, war es ntig, eine Verengung der Gattungsauffassung und ihre Typisierung durchzufhren. Auf Grund dieser Verengung und Typisierung sind Fallopia Adans. 1763 und Bilderdykia Dum. 1827 vom taxonomischen Gesichtspunkt identisch geworden. Der Autor nimmt Fallopia Adans. als den richtigen Namen an; Konservierung von Bilderdykia Dum. wird wegen ungengenden Grnden nicht vorgeschlagen. Die Gattung Fallopia Adans. wurde gegen einige Gruppen der Sammelgattung Polygonum L. s. l., in die ihre Arten einbegriffen wurden (Fagopyrum, Reynoutria) abgegrenzt; die Gattung enthlt 9 Arten in zwei Sektionen, und einen Bastard. Fr alle diese Taxa wurden neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen vorgeschlagen. 
4181270|Biomass allocation to roots, rhizomes, runners and climbing stems (i.e. twining axis and attached leaves) was studied in Calystegia sepium L., a clonal vine. In an experiment which took 2 months, nutrient availability (low and high) and intraspecific competition (none, shoot, root and both shoot and root) were manipulated. Under low nutrients the highest biomass of climbing stems was found in plants with shoot competition; the lowest was found in plants with both shoot and root competition. Total biomass under high nutrients was also greatest in plants with shoot competition. Thus, plants benefited from climbing up a shared stake rather than separate stakes. Larger plants allocated a higher proportion of biomass to runners in the nutrient-poor environment than in the nutrient-rich environment. This behaviour may increase the chance of finding nutrient-rich patches in the neighbourhood of the mother plant in a heterogeneous environment.
4180956|The study investigated various factors stimulating germination of seeds of four species of Chenopodium album agg. - C. album L. s. str., C. ficifolium Sm., C. strictum Roth, C. suecicum J. Murr. These factors were: storage in wet and cold, alternating temperature, nitrates mainly in combination with light and, to a lesser degree, the duration of chilling. Germination was inhibited by darkness, which was most marked with seeds of C. strictum. The effect of alternating temperature was better on the germination of C. ficifolium and C. suecicum than on that of C. album and C. strictum. We also discussed several differences in specific reactions of the individual species to the factors under consideration.
4180244|After a brief account of both past and present fishpond management and of its impact on the fishpond vegetation of higher plants, a survey is given of the biomass and total net production in various types of communities constituting this vegetation. Relatively stable and unstable communities are distinguished and further differentiated by the dominant plant life-forms. The biomass and production data are highly variable, depending on actual conditions in the fishpond habitats, but the maximum recorded values of annual net production (in terms of dry matter produced per year) appear to decrease in the following order: the communities dominated by ochthohydrophytes (over 3 kg. m
4180924| The salt marsh vegetation on the west coast of North Korea was studied by the method of the Zrich-Montpellier school. The following communities were distinguished: Suaedetum japonicae, Scirpetum iseensis, Artemisietum fukudo, and the following were described as new: Triglochini maritimae-Phragmitetum communis, Artemisio capillaris-Salsoletum komarovii and Salsolo komarovii-Rosetum rugosae. The phytocoenological material was also analysed by means of numerical techniques. The population density of Suaeda japonica was examined in accordance with the distance from the sea. The description of the zoning of the vegetation was based on the study of transects three localities and was supplemented by chemical analyses of the soil. 
4181202| The black alder (Alnus glutinosa (L.) Gaertn.) stands occupy 2.5% of the forest area in Latvia. The majority of its communities lie on peatlands; they have been studied in the whole of Latvia using the Braun-Blanquet approach. One hundred and fifty alder dominated relevs selected from 334 forest areas have been analysed. Three associations (Carici elongatae-Alnetum, Sphagno squarrosi-Alnetum, and Circaeo-Alnetum), one with four subassociations have been recognized; these belong to the Eurosiberian alder swamps (cl. Alnetea glutinosae) and the European broad-leaved forests (cl. Querco-Fagetea). The phytosociological structure, distribution in Latvia and floristic features of these communities are reported. Results are compared with similar communities in the Baltic Sea states and neighbouring countries. 
4179446| Die bisher verffentlichten Aufnahmen und Tabellen der azidophilen Eichen- und Eichenmischwlder (Klasse Quercetea robori-petraeae) in Bhmen, Mhren und im tschechoslowakischen Schlesien, wurden einer syntaxonomischen Revision unterzogen. Es wurden drei Assoziationen unterschieden: Luzulo-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Passarge 1953 em., Molinio-Quercetum ass. nova und Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum Oberdorfer 1957. Bei diesen Assoziationen wurden ihre Struktur, innere Variabilitt, die Standortsverhltnisse und die Verbreitung erforscht, weiter der Schriftenvergleich und die wirtschaftliche Wertung behandelt. Die Assoziationen wurden in einen neuen Verband Genisto germanicae-Quercion fed. nova eingereiht, welcher zur Ordnung Quercetalia robori-petraeae gehrt. Die subatlantisch-atlantischen azidophilen Eichen- und Eichenmischwlder wurden in den Verband Quercion roboris (Malcuit 1929) Txen 1930 eingegliedert. /// The accessible papers on vegetation plots (relevs) of acidophilous oak forests in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia published to date have been re-evaluated. The basic method employed was the floristic sociological tabular arrangement according to Braun-Blanquet. Of the 554 vegetation plots and synthetic tables that were investigated, 386 plots belong to the Quercetalia robori-petraeae order, the other plots to other classes (Carpinion, Fagion, Betulion pubescentis, Galio-Abietion alliances etc.). The results of the analysis led the authors to consider the subcontinental acidophilous oak forests as an independent alliance, the Genisto germanicae-Quercion, and to allocate the subatlantic-atlantic oak forests within the Quercion roboris (Malcuit 1929) Txen 1930, since the Quercion robori-petraeae alliance as understood by Braun-Blanquet 1932 was too broadly conceived. To this Genisto germanicae-Quercion belong the associations analysed below, i.e. the Luzulo-Quercetum, Molinio arundinaceae-Quercetum and Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum; to the Quercion roboris belong the associations Querco robori-Betuletum Txen (1930) 1937, Fago-Quercetum Tx. 1955, Violo-Quercetum (Tx. 1937) Oberd. 1957, Quercetum occidentale Gaume 1924 (corr. Braun-Blanquet 1932), and perhaps Blechno-Quercetum Braun-Blanquet et Txen 1952. The Genisto germanicae-Quercion can be characterized by the following species: Genista germanica, Cytisus nigricans, Platanthera bifolia, Silene nutans, Hieracium sabaudum and Hieracium racemosum. As character or differentiating species of the atlantic Quercion roboris alliance Lonicera periclymenum, Teucrium scorodonia, Lathyrus montanus, Hypericum pulchrum, Corydalis claviculata, or other atlantic species, e.g. Ilex aquifolium, Galium saxatile, etc. may be considered. On the basis of a new investigation three associations weree differentiated in the western regions of Czechoslovakia. They are the Luzulo albidae-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Passarge 1953 emend. Neuhusl et Neuhuslov, the Molinio arundinaceae-Quercetum ass. nova and the Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum Oberdorfer 1957. The Luzulo-Quercetum, which was previously most frequently specified as Quercetum medioeuropaeum Br-Bl. 1932 or as Genisto-Quercetum Klika 1932, is characterized by Luzula albida, Viola riviniana, Luzula campestris and Atrichum undulatum. This association is relatively rich in species. Apart from vague and ecologically insignificant species the acidophilous forest species constitute a substantial component of the association. The presence of some not very pretentious species of the Querco-Fagetea class (including the lower units), is also characteristic of the floristic composition of the Luzulo-Quercetum. The Luzulo-Quercetum has been divided into two subassociations (the genistetosum tinctoriae (Samek 1964) subass. nova and the typicum). The Genista tinctoria subassociation which occurs in warmer or drier regions and on dry sites with a southern aspect outside these regions, exhibits the following differentiating species: Genista tinctoria, Cytisus nigricans, Viscaria vulgaris and Silene nutans. The typical subassociation exhibits no differentiating species and represents the mesophilous type of this association. In the paper other lower units of the Luzulo-Quercetum are also analysed. The geographical distribution of the Luzulo-Quercetum (according to the revised vegetation plots) in Bohemia, Moravia-Silesia can be seen from the maps of localities (Fig. 1, 2). The area of this association has been little known as yet and encompasess the subcontinental part of Central Europe. The association thrives in lower positions on oligotrophic soils. However, it avoids extremely poor sandy and silicious soils deprived of nutrients as well as those affected by standing water, podzolic and semiligley soils. A survey of the literature and a short evaluation of the association are attached. The Molinio arundinaceae-Quercetum, formerly called Querco-Betuletum by Czechoslovak authors, is characterized by the character species Molinia arundinacea and the differentiating species Frangula alnus and Betula pubescens. This association is fairly poor. It lacks not only many character species of the alliance, but also the more demanding vague forest species and those of the Querco-Fagetea class. The Molinio-Quercetum has been divided into two subassociations according to floristic composition and habitat, viz. into a moister Populus tremula subassociation (differentiating species: Populus tremula, Lysimachia vulgaris, Hieracium laevigatum) and a dry Pleurozium schreberi-subassociation (differentiating species: Pleurozium schreberi, Carex pilulifera, Leucobryum glaucum, Polytrichum formosum). The association rests on periodically moist, rather oligotrophic and acid semiligley soils in the lower situations of our territory. The geographical distribution of the association can be seen from the map of localities (Fig. 3); outside Czechoslovakia very similar stands have been indicated in the central German dry territory. The Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum Oberd. 1957 represents a relatively continental type of our acidophilous, mixed oak forests. The following are considered character or differentiating species for the pine oak forest: Pinus silvestris, Vaccinium vitis-idaea, Dicranum polysetum and Cladonia. This association is very poor in species; the character species of the acidophilous oak forests (Quercetea robori-petraeae and the subordinated units) are very rarely represented, which also points to the allocation of this association in the Quercetea robori-petraeae class (in the direction towards the Vaccinio-Piceetea class). There occurs only one group of acidophilous forest species with a high cover degree and constancy. The association is divided into two subassociations, in the Convallaria majalis one (differentiating species: Convallaria majalis) and the Calluna vulgaris subassociation (differentiating species: Calluna vulgaris, Sieglingia decumbens, Potentilla erecta, Nardus stricta, Antennaria dioica). The Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum rests on the extremely poor, acid sandy weathering material of rocks poor in bases, on the sandstones of the cenomanian and sandy terraces. Its distribution on our territory can be seen in the map (Fig. 4). The area of Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum is not well known so far; it encompasses aproximately the space between the atlantic Quercion roboris communities and the continental Pinion communities. The units investigated are documented with vegetation plots and tables. 
4179556| Coleanthus subtilis ist in der Tschechoslowakei in den Herzynischen Bezirken, in einer Meereshhe von (180) 400-700 (900) m am meisten verbreitet. Das hufig ephemere und periodische Auftreten dieser Art mit polydisjunktivem Areal wird auf Grund kologischer Gesichtspunkte analysiert. Da die Art im vorigen Jahrhundert aus Bhmen beschrieben wurde, werden im Text einige historische Angaben angefhrt. /// Coleanthus subtilis is a species with a polydisjunctive area of distribution. In Czechoslovakia, where it occurs mainly in the Hercynic region of Bohemia and Moravia, 140 localities have been found. By comparison with the frequency of localities in other areas, this region has been shown to constitute the main area of occurrence for this species. The possible existence of further potential localities in this region is analyzed in this paper. The time interval at which the species has been collected at the single localities is stated. The chromosome number of the species has been confirmed to be 2n = 14 in our material. C. s. is a therophyte (pelochtophyte) with a life cycle lasting 6-7 weeks, the growth form being f. caespitosa. In view of the short period of vegetation, the variability of the morphoses is not very strong (f. typica, f. nana, f. luxurians, f. laxa). The species is adapted to life on drained substrate at river banks and the beds of stagnant waters by the specific character of its water relations. It is very sensitive to a drying of the substrate for longer periods, the optimal soil water capacity being 65% (by weight). Germination is abundant in fluctuating temperatures with an interval of 20 C. This might explain the appearance of two generations, one growing in spring, the other in autumn. Due to the ability of the seeds to float for a certain time (144 hours for whole seeds, 6 hours for seeds deprived of theirs paleae), C. s. is capable of hydrochoric dispersal to distances that are not very remote. The adherence of the seeds does not exclude also the possibility of ornithochoric distribution between the single areas, possibly in combination with the migration of some duck species. The seed production is enormous, even though the abundances of the species in the stands is small. If it is assumed that 5 individuals occur per 1 m
4179928|The mangrove formation on the coasts of S. Atlantic is very poor in species (only 6) compared with mangrove in S. and SE. Asia or E. Africa (more than 30). This fact cannot be explained by ecology. It is suggested that the main cause is the historically late origin of the Atlantic due to the continental drift.
4181182|Nomenclature, typification, generalised distribution, chromosome number, description and taxonomic notes are given for each of 15 species and subspecies recognised within Luzula sect. Luzula in Europe. Attention is paid to possible ways of evolution in the section in Europe. Critical cases are annotated without formal classification. Appendices with an identification key and a selection of herbarium specimens studied are provided.
4180882| Chromosome numbers of the following nine taxa of the Czechoslovak flora are given: Atriplex rosea L., Cardamine resedifolia L., Groenlandia densa (L.) Fourr., Isotes lacustris L., Lysimachia nemorum L., Parnassia palustris L., Phelipanche caesia (Rchb.) Sojk, Rumex patientia L. subsp. patientia and Symphytum officinale L. s. str. A new chromosome number of 2n = 80 is reported for Rumex patientia L. subsp. patientia. Chromosome numbers of another five taxa are first reported from Czechoslovakia. Each of the ascertained chromosome counts is discussed with respect to hitherto known reports. 
4180459| A method of simultaneous analysis of vertical and horizontal structure is described. It is particularly applicable to forest and shrubland. Data come from point-height analysis of vegetation: 100 sample points are arranged in 4 lines of 25, with 2 m between lines and 1 m between points on lines. At each point, specific lists of spaces intercepted optically are observed by vertical measurement strata. Strata depth is 10 cm when mean vegetation height is lower than 4-5 m, and 50 cm above this height. This study is based on height of upper vegetation presence, and applied to low forests of Nothofagus antarctica (Forest.) Verst. in Southern Chle and Argentina. The authors summarize the data sequence by the cumulative sum technique. This technique allows the rapid and clear delimitation of three dimensional mosaic units of vegetation whose height varies vertically from the mean height. The pattern of these mosaic units is shown as three dimensional block diagrams, giving a good representation of structural dominance patterns. 
4180461|Data used come from point-height analysis. 100 sample points are arranged in 4 lines of 25, with 24 m between lines and 1 m between points on lines. At each point, vertical lists of species are compiled, by measurement strata. Such strata depth is 10 cm when mean vegetation height in the stand is lower than 4-5 m and 50 cm when heigher. A synthetic vegetation profile is obtained by sum of species presences in each measurement stratum for all 100 observations. When these profiles are bimodal, vegetation can be divided in two at the secondary minimum level: the upper part is the canopy, the lower the understorey. Only the canopy structure is dealt with in this tudy. Several parameters, describing vertical structure of woody vegetation, are defined and measured. They are: (1) maximum height, (2) upper and lower canopy limits, (3) canopy depth and (4) density. Delimitation of canopy is achieved by calculating the hypegeometric probability of realisation groups of vegetation presence, or absence, in the vertical line of sight. The thickness is the difference between the two previous values (2) and (3) and density the number of intercepts between them. Horizontal variations in those structural parameters are revealed by cumulative sum method which demonstrates different types of pattern. Relations between horizontal variations are studied by pairs; actual values compared by linear correlation analysis while concordance between patterns are characterised by the coefficient of simple concordance of Sokal et Mitchner and by a binary autocorrelation coefficient. Shannon's formula enables an overall appreciation of canopy homogeneity. An example is applied to some stands of Nothofagus antarctica (Forest.) Verst. in Southern Chile and Argentina. The upper canopy limits are the same upper vegetation intercepts so canopies are smooth. High correlation exists between upper and lower limits of the canopies, and low correlation between the latter and thickness and density, so canopies are uniform.
4179419| Die Arbeit behandelt die Chorologie, kologie und phytoznologische Zugehrigkeit der Art Lactuca perennis L. in der SSR. In der Arbeit wird die Genese des Areals dieser Art besprochen und die Bedeutung der Migrationsstrmung innerhalb des karpatischen Bogens hervorgehoben. Der Verfasser weist auf einen entwicklungsmssigen Zusammenhang mit der westmediterranen Art Lactuca tenerrima Pourr. hin. Die Verbreitung in der Tschechoslowakei ist ausfhrlich angegeben, weiter werden kologische Faktoren analysiert und einige Arten mit hnlichen Hauptzgen des Areals angefhrt. /// 1. The species Lactuca perennis L. is a submediterranean-montane geoelement with a slight central-European-suboceanic tendency. 2. It may be assumed that there exists a developmental connection between the species Lactuca perennis and the west-mediterranean species Lactuca tenerrima Pour. L. tenerrima has more primitive morphologico-cytological conditions; at present it is already considerably specialized as a prominent xerothermic species. Also its present geographic area indicates a higher phylogenetic age (the younger Tertiary). In the wider regions of the Alps the glacial era may have caused genetic changes resulting in a new species. However, this species, Lactuca perennis, also shows a relatively high age compared with the majority of the members of the family Asteraceae. This is confirmed by the rather primitive genome, and also by an evident isolation within the scope of the genus, supported by an absence of interspecific hybridization, and, to a certain extent, also by its disjunctive area. L. perennis appears as a species which reached its edaphic and climatic limits a long time ago. 3. Of interest is the genesis of the area of the species L. perennis, which, in this paper, has been investigated primarily with regard to the territory of Czechoslovakia. In this species the main migratory activity probably occurred in the last interglacial, at which period the geographical distribution probably took place in an eastward direction as far as the Bulgarian mountains and towards the north-east via Transsylvania to the North Hungarian Highland. This migratory trend along the inner curve of the Carpathians distinguishes the species L. perennis and some further species from the whole group of taxa spreading from the Balkan peninsula to the territory of Czechoslovakia along the Illyrian-Noric way. If there arose a migratory trend also in this area (this may be assumed as having occurred in a north-eastern direction towards the Hungarian mountains rather than towards the north), then it must have been disturbed considerably by the east-Alpine glaciation in the last glacial epoch, whereas in the regions of Transsylvania and of the North Hungarian Highland the species L. perennis may have survived the unfavourable periods in suitable refuges. To assume the existence of refuges in the north-western part of the area in the course of the last glacial era is much more difficult, but their existence may nevertheless be assumed, and that primarily in the valleys of larger rivers along which important migration occurred in the history of the spreading of the species in the northern part of the area. 4. There is a more detailed investigation of the whole area. The northern limit in the western part of the area lies between latitude 50 and 51 50 N (its northernmost occurrence is near Darlingerode in the Hartz), in the eastern part it lies between latitude 48 and 4910 N (its northernmost occurrence is the Rozsutec mountain (?) and the Mann pass in Slovakia). Contact between the western and the eastern halves of the area is provided by localities near Obervellach in southern Austria. L. perennis is missing in the whole Pannonian lowland, in Lower Austria, and in Moravia. Because of lack of data it was difficult to define the southern limits. In the south it reaches to the Sierra de Mara and to the regions of Granada in the Pyrenean peninsula, in Italy to Monte Pollino. On the Balkan peninsula its southern limit running through Macedonia was defined more accurately on the basis of herbarium material. The easternmost locality ascertained is Shumla in Bulgaria at longitude 2656 E. The paper also mentions hitherto unknown finds made by Domin in the Djula mountains near Sevlyush in the Subcarpathian Ukraine as the first data on a spontaneous occurrence in the USSR. 5. There is a detailed description of the spreading of the species L. perennis in Czechoslovakia, an investigation of some of its migrations, and certain characteristic accompanying species in the various regions are frequently mentioned. Its spreading in Czechoslovakia has been illustrated by means of a complete list of individual localities arranged according to the phytogeographical wholes. In Bohemia L. perennis occurs exclusively in typically xerothermic regions with centres of spreading in the Bohemian Central Montains, in the region of the lower, Moldau, and in the Bohemian Kars. Along the narrow Moldau valley this species penetrated farthest towards the south to Kue south of Zvkov. In Moravia it is altogether absent. In Slovakia it has spread radially from the North Hungarian Highland dispersedly and irregularly over a major part of the region, especially in the southern foot-hills, in the Kars region, and in the valleys of larger rivers. 6. In the Czechoslovak flora there occur certain species with certain similarities with regard to area and with similar ecological requirements, and also species with an analogous Moravian hiatus (e.g. Ceterach officinarum, Allium strictum, Erysimum crepidifolium, Iris aphylla, Coronilla vaginalis, Erythronium denscanis). Of the submediterranean species some (e.g. Fumana procumbens, Erysimum crepidifolium, and Helianthemum canum) have their absolute northern limit in Central Europe similar to that of the species L. perennis. 7. The paper contains an analysis of the phytocoenological relationship of the species L. perennis under central-European conditions. L. perennis appears as an important species of the order Festucetalia vallesiacae Br.-Bl. et Tx. 43. In Bohemia it finds optimum conditions primarily in the xerothermic associations Erysimo (crepidifolii) - Festucetum vallesiacae Klika 33, Seseli (ossei) - Festucetum glaucae Klika (33) 39, Helianthemo (cani) - Seslerietum calcareae Klika 33, or in Caricetum humilis. In the xerothermic regions of Slovakia L. perennis predominates in associations of the order Festucetalia vallesiacae, and in the associations of the Carpathian phytocoenoses it occurs chiefly in Caricetum humilis carpaticum Sillinger 33 and in Seslerietum variae. In Bohemia and also in Slovakia it sometimes penetrates into thinned stands of the association Quercion pubescentis Klika 53 and, rarely, into initial stages on rocks. 8. L. perennis grows predominantly on dry, sunny, rocky slopes and rocky plateaus, mostly with a southern exposure. In the whole area it behaves like a distinctive basiphil. In Bohemia it grows chiefly on basalt and on Silurian-Devonian limestone, rarely on greenstone, arenaceous marl, slate, phonolite, and diorite, in Slovakia it grows on mesozoic limestones and dolomites, on basalt, and on andesite. It prefers humuscarbonate soil with skeleton. 9. The distribution of the species L. perennis in Czechoslovakia is characterized also by climatic factors. A majority of the localities are situated in regions with an average annual temperature of 8-9 C (average temperature in May 13 C). The annual average of precipitations in these regions in Bohemia is (470) - 500-550 - (600) mm, in the more variform terrain of Slovakia it is somewhat higher (550) - 650 -700 - (900) mm. However, the decisive factor is the microclimate of the different localities. 10. L. perennis shows a considerable amplitude in its vertical spreading; it grows in lowland as well as in the subalpine zone. In Bohemia its maximum occurrence is in the zone of from 200 to 400 m above sea level (highest 600 m), in Slovakia 250-650 m (lowest 115 m and highest 1100 m). 11. The infraspecific taxa found in Czechoslovakia, apart from the typical form also f. angustifolia (Wallr.), f. latifolia (Wallr.), f. subintegrifolia (Bornm.), and f. integrifolia (Bischoff), constitute only a wide variational amplitude in a single, considerably changeable character - the shape of the leaves. 12. A very rare case of albinism was recorded by Domin from the hill Velk Hora near Karltejn as the only finding in Czechoslovakia. 
4181442| A hybrid swarm between Viola lutea subsp. sudetica (2n=50, native species) and Viola tricolor (2n=26, introduced species) originated in the 1970's in the Krkonoe Mts. Analyses of chromosome numbers, reproductive biology, morphology, and ecology gave the following results: (1) Compared to the plants found in the 1970's, the number of colour morphs have decreased and the types now prevailing in the field are morphologically closer to V. lutea subsp. sudetica, forming a continuum. (2) In the field, hybrids having approximately the same chromosome number as the primary hybrids are most common. Some plants of the hybrid swarm have certain characters unknown to their parents. (3) In the field, autogamous types similar to V. tricolor were found. (4) A limited number of plants from the field and culture have higher somatic chromosome numbers than V. lutea subsp. sudetica; there was a tendency towards increasing chromosome numbers in their progeny (up to 2n=62). These plants have some new morphological characters (a small proportion of hexacolpate pollen) not found in the parents (nor in the other hybrids with prevailing tetracolpate and pentacolpate pollen grains) and higher pollen fertility in comparison to the other hybrids. These plants also have the highest germination rate. (5) There is a tendency for chromosome numbers to decline in the progeny of open pollinated hybrid plants in the lowland experimental garden. (6) The phenology of the plants in the mountain grasslands and the lowland garden is different; the parents behave in a totally contrasting manner. (7) In the field, at least some hybrids extend outside the geographical and ecological ranges of the parental species, invading new communities. (8) Seeds of V. tricolor do not show any dormancy and germinate in the year of production; most of the V. lutea subsp. sudetica seeds germinate during the spring of the following year. Hybrids with intermediate chromosome numbers had both types of germination strategy. The germination rate of intermediates with high chromosome numbers was even higher than that of V. tricolor. 
4179965| The paper summarizes the present state of knowledge on submerged and emergent macrophyte productivity as related to both natural and man-induced environmental factors. Particular attention is paid to the light and CO
4179743| Vesicular cavities in the lava fields of Northern Iceland communicate by small openings with the ground surface. Aeolian sediments, called the Icelandic loess, deposit over the bottom of these cavities, together with the reduced light intensity and equable microclimate, create specific biotopes occupied by sciophilous bryophytes and Cystopteris fragilis. A new association within the alliance Ctenidion Stefureac 1941 - Cystopteri-Distichietum capillacei Blakov ass. nova - is described in the present paper. 
4179892| In einer umfangreichen Kollektion foliikoler Flechten gesammelt von Dr. T. Pcs in Tanzania wurden 107 Arten festgestellt. Von diesen wurden 20 Arten und 2 Varietten als neu beschrieben. Ein neuer Typus von "Isidia scutelliformia", ein morphologisch ungewhnlicher Pyknidium-Typus und ein komplizierter konidientragender Fruchtkrper wurden auch beschrieben. Ein Bestimmungschlssel der afrikanischen foliikolen Bacidia-Arten und Bemerkungen fr die Umgrenzung der Familie Megalosporaceae (ad interim) sind angefhrt. /// In a large collection of foliicolous lichens from Tanzania, 107 species have been found; 42 for the first time. Twenty species and two varieties have been described as new. Three new species had no relation to existing genera and therefore it was necessary to establish three new genera. In three new Bacidia species a new typus of dish-like isidium (isidium scutelliforme), a morphologically unusual pycnidium, and a complicated fruit-body producing conidia have been discovered and described. A key for determination of all known African foliicollous species of the genus Bacidia is given. Notes to the circumscription of the family Megalosporaceae proposed ad interim are presented. New taxa: Bacidia africana sp. n., B. fragilis sp. n., B. permira sp. n., B. scutellifera sp. n., B. subsimilis sp. n., Byssoloma fadeni sp. n., B. supbolychromum sp. n., Catillaria congesta sp. n., Dimerella hypophylla sp., n., Enterographa effusa sp., n., Megalospora simplex sp. n., Pocsia gen. n., Pocsia marattiae sp. n., Porina apera sp. n., P. epiphylloides sp. n., P. longispora sp. n., P. multipunctata R. Sant. var. schizopora var. n., P. papillifera (Stirt.) Schill. var rubrofusca var. n., P. subpallescens sp., n., P. uluguruensis sp. n., Porinula gen. n., Porinula tanzanica sp. n., Pseudogyalecta gen. n., Pseudogyalecta verrucosa sp. n. and Tricharia armata sp. n. 
4181275|Fifteen successional seres from man-made habitats in central Europe were compared and the occurrence of clonal species assessed on the basis of cover data. The effects of soil moisture and nitrogen (expressed using Ellenberg indicator values) on the performance of clonal plants were also considered. Clonal species formed the dominant component of vegetation cover in the majority of the seres studied. In moist sites, their dominance was more pronounced and the peak in their relative cover occurred earlier in succession. The relative importance of species with guerilla type growth tended to increase with time in most seres and after 10 years these were mostly more important than those exhibiting phalanx type growth. The prevalence of guerilla species after 10 years was more obvious in moist seres. Clonal species were able to become dominant regardless of soil conditions, whereas the dominance of non-clonal species tended to be restricted to very wet and nutrient-poor sites. Clonal plant species appeared to maintain their dominance for a longer period than non-clonal plants.
4181316| The syntaxa of the near-natural sand steppes (class Festucetea vaginatae) and their substitutes due to trampling (Chenopodietea) were studied in 1991 during the Ukrainian-Czech expedition to the Birjuij Island Spit (Azov Sea, Ukraine). Within the alliance Festucion beckeri Vicherek 1972 (class Festucetea vaginatae. So 1968 emend. Vicherek 1972, order Festucetalia vaginatae So 1957) three associations and five communities without rank are described, covering the vegetation variability along gradients of sand stabilization/soil development and salinization/moisture. Further, two associations of the class Chenopodietea, due to deer influence, are described. Four associations (Centaureo odessanae-Stipetum capillatae, Poo bulbosae-Caricetum colchicae, Secali-Cynodontetum dactyli and Heliotropio dolosi-Brometum japonici) are described as new. 
4180833|Seven associations of segetal vegetation are distinguished for the vast arable lands of Central Yakutia. Low species richness and the prevalence of annual weeds are the main features of these communities. Only two dominant species Sphallerocarpus gracilis and Saussurea amara represent Asian types of areals. Other dominants Fallopia convolvulus, Elytrigia repens, Chenopodium album, Brassica campestris, Lappula squarrosa, Scutellaria galericulata, Thlaspi arvense, Avena fatua and Crepis tectorum are typically cosmopolitan. The phytosociological system of the segetal communities is described.
4180886|The main features of autogenic bog development are discussed. Using extensive literature the changes in vegetation, surface topography, soil environment and hydrology are characterized. Oligotrophy and low pH seem to be the most important factors directing bog succession. The decrease in decomposition rates correlates with increase of the content of dissolved oxygen in the soil water. Due to substantial changes in local environment bog succession should be considered first of all as an ecosystem process. In comparison with mineral land communities bog succession is characterized by more deterministic development. Both successional convergence and divergence are observed. In every case the concrete character of bog dynamics depends on the spatial and temporal scales of investigation.
4179463| Der Formenkreis von Riccia crystallina besteht aus zwei Arten: R. crystallina L. emend. Raddi und R. cavernosa Hoffm. emend. Raddi. Die Nomenklatur ist bisher nur provisorisch. R. crystallina erscheint vorlufig als mediterranes Element, R. cavernosa ist berall auf der ganzen Welt verbreitet. Bei der Art R. cavernosa wird eine neue Variett R. cavernosa var. latior var. n. beschrieben. Eine revidierte bersicht von Herbarbelegen ist angefhrt. /// Parmi les Riccia nommes jusqu'ici gnralement crystallina on peut distinguer deux espces: R. crystallina L. emend. Raddi et R. cavernosa Hoffm. emend. Raddi. Utilisation de ces noms n'est que provisoire. La cl suivante rsume leurs diffrences morphologiques: Thalle vert-bleut, dans les rosettes ou dans les parties de la forme de coin, seulement peu et courtement divis, ayant sur la face dorsale de trs petits pores. Capsules non saillantes. Spores de 60-84 m de diamtre, les alvoles  la face distale presque compltement limites,  l'intersections des cloisons avec les tubercules au sommet bident. Aile portant 1-3 pores nettement visibles... R. crystallina Thalle vert-jaune,  divisions trs nombreuses et profondes, sur la face dorsale grossirement perfor - spongieux. Capsules fortement saillantes. Spores de 62-120 m de diamtre, les alvoles  la face distale irrgulires et incompltement limites (au moins dans la partie centrale), aux intersections des cloisons manquent les tubercules bidents. Aile dpourvue de pores.. R. cavernosa Ces deux espces diffrent non seulement au point de vue morphologique mais aussi de la distribution gographique: R. crystallina semble jusqu'alors mditerranenne, il faut corriger tous les indications de R. crystallina sauf ce territoire - dans le cas douteux la revision du matriel fertile est ncessaire. R. cavernosa est connue dans une grande partie du monde. Chez l'espce R. cavernosa existent deux varits diffrentes par le caractre de la ramification du thalle. La cl suivante montre leurs diffrences: Thalle multiple, toujours clairement dichotome, les ramifications loignes, les individus en rgle gnrale seulement avec une branche du
4181246|Higher syntaxa of the class Asteretea tripolium are reviewed. This class covers plant communities of the Euro-Asian continent on low- and medium-salinized soils with medium moisture conditions where perennial herbaceous plants (hemicryptophytes) of non-succulent character prevail. On the territory of the former USSR and Mongolia, the class Asteretea tripolium is represented by the following orders: Glauco-Puccinellietalia Beeftink et Westhoff in Beeftink 1962, Cirsietalia esculenti Mirkin et V. Golub ex V. Golub ord. novus, Scorzonero-Juncetalia gerardii Vicherek 1973, Halerpestetalia Mirkin et al. ex V. Golub ord. novus, Artemisio santonicae-Limonietalia gmelinii V. Golub et V. Solomakha 1988, Suaedetalia corniculatae V. Golub ord. novus. Superspecies and aggregations of species are used for the diagnosis of higher syntaxa.
4179535| Fr folgende inkorrekte Epitheta schlgt der Autor richtige Namen vor, die in Klammern angefhrt sind: Potentilla opizii Dom. (= P. lindackeri Tausch), P. dealbata Bunge (= P. virgata Lehm.), P. poterioides Franch. (= P. limprichtii J. Krause), P. fulgens Wall. ex Hook. (= P. siemersiana Lehm.), P. labradorica Lehm. (= P. flexuosa Raf.), P. ambigua Camb. (= P. cuneifolia Bertol.), P. anserina ssp. egedii (Wormsk.) Hiit. (= P. anserina ssp. groenlandica Tratt.), P. raddeana (Wolf) Juz. (= P. bertramii Aznav.) und P. bipinnatifida Dougl. ex Hook. (= P. normalis Bess. ex Spreng.). Fr P. nudicaulis Boiss. et Bal., P. eremica Wolf und P. sericata Wolf werden nomina nova verffentlicht. Es werden einige neue Kombinationen angefhrt: P. supina L. ssp. paradoxa (Nutt. ex Torr. et Gray) c.n., P. hispanica Zimm. ssp. oreodoxa (Sojk) c. n. und P. h. ssp. ibrahimiana (Maire) c. n. Strauchige Arten, oft in die Gattung Potentilla eingereiht, betrachtet der Autor als eine selbstndige Gattung Pentaphylloides und in dieser Gattung fhrt er einige neue Kombinationen (5 fr Arten, 4 fr Hybriden) an. 
4179479| Das in der sdtoskanischen Maremma klimatogene Quercetum ilicis wird in regelmssigen Abstnden von etwa 12 Jahren kahlgeschlagen, wodurch tiefgreifende nderungen in der Vegetation entstehen. Es wird in den ersten zwei Jahren ein Massenauftreten von Therophyten beobachtet und bald darauf eine allmhliche Wiederentwicklung des Waldes, die durch Stockausschlge der krftigeren Holzarten zustande kommt. Die hufig auftretenden Brnde bedingen hingegen das Entstehen des Ericeto-Lavanduletum als degradierte Dauergesellschaft. Die vorliegende Arbeit stellt einen Versuch dar, die wichtigsten Momente dieser Sukzession zu beschreiben, u. zw. mit floristischen Angaben und mit der Bearbeitung von Lebensformen, kologischen Synusien, Schichtung, Verbreitungstypen und Polyploidie. /// The Quercetum ilicis galloprovinciale is largely distributed in Southern Toscana and only here and there substituted by the Ericeto-Levanduletum stoechidis or still more rarely by deciduous forests; cultures and permanent meadows do not exist at all. The Quercetum ilicis galloprovinciale (Tab. 1) is here in a special subassociation (arbutetosum) that occurs on moderately acid soils and moist habitats; the subass. pistacietosum largely diffused in the western Mediterranean, has been found only outside the studied zone in the immediate proximity of the coast. The Quercetum ilicis is very seldom found nowadays as a real forest of lofty trees, as it is cut down about every 12 years; the substituting vegetation (Tab. 2) does not form a distinct association. The Ericeto-Lavanduletum (Tab. 3) develops on slopes on which after repeated fires vegetation and soil have been largely impoverished. It constitutes an acidophilous permanent association that consists chiefly of bushes and is represented in the zone by a special chorological subassociation. The substituting vegetation has been studied in its succession and the most important results seem to be the following: 1. The floristic composition shows great fluctuations especially within the first 3 years following the cut; afterwards large amounts of weeds strange to the forest often appear but the species of the Quercetum ilicis remain and become dominant after five to seven years. 2. The number of species consequently augments within the first years from 25 to 60. 3. The most diffused woody plant after the cut is Arbutus unedo and only some years later Quercus ilex becomes completely dominant. 4. The annuals augment very much within the first years (up to 50%), but disappear afterwards gradually. 5. The species that appear after the cutting of the trees possess seeds with very efficient means of dispersal, but in some cases it must be supposed that the seeds had already been present in the soil before the destruction of the forest. 6. During the renewal of the forest the percentage of polyploids augments remarkably. 
4180518| The present study describes communities of flooded sites (Agropyro-Rumicion) on the shores of Rozko reservoir in E. Bohemia. Sources of variation and phases of differentiation of these communities are described. The differentiation of these communities is predominantly determined by the original communities, by gradients of flood-water depth and of soil water content, by the pool of propagules available, and by increasing competition during the ecocycle. The structure of communities was studied by various multivariate methods (cluster analysis, PCA, DCA). Some comments on the methods used are also given. The necessity of studies of community dynamics was stressed as being very important for correct classification. 
4179776|The authors give measurements of osmotic values in 35 Cuban plant species, using the cryoscopic method. Osmotic values of plants correspond relatively well with environmental conditions, but in different species of the same habitat they may be different. The lowest values were found in Cactaceae (-1.6 to -6.2 atm.) and in epiphytic Bromeliaceae (-4.6 to -4.7 atm.), the highest in halophytes: -21 to -56 atm.
4180584|A new association, the Cassio lineatae-Aristidetum neglectae, the only representative of the alliance Cassio lineatae-Aristidion neglectae Bal.-Tul. all. nova is described. The association occurs in the open serpentine areas in Matanzas province, Cuba.
4179550|This paper is devoted to the taxonomy of those species of the genus Echinodorus in which the blades have pellucid lines connected in an irregular network. This concerns Echinodorus longipetalus Mich., E. tunicatus Small and two new species E. horizontalis sp. n. from the Amazone basin and E. glandulosus sp. n. from Brazil. Diagnoses and geographical distribution are presented.
4180409| In the protected landscape region of Jizersk hory mountains and the surrounding region, wet meadow plant communities were studied. A close relationship exists between the distribution of the analyzed communities and environmental properties. Apart from the differences expressed in the reconstruction mapping units, various environmental variables were taken into consideration: height above sea level, geological substratum, climatic regime, inclination, exposition, soil moisture, humus content and quality, content of H
4181470|The development of the taxonomy of the European bramble flora is discussed. Previous taxonomic concepts were mainly (1) description of each different bramble bush as a species of its own, (2) treatment of bramble taxa with hybrid formulas, (3) arranging of bramble taxa as infraspecific taxa within an artificial system, (4) creation of special taxonomic units like "agamospecies". In modern taxonomy only well stabilized apomicts with a regional or wider distribution are taken into consideration and treated as species. Merely locally distributed brambles or the countless individual biotypes (spontaneous hybrids and their derivatives) are no longer a subject of special taxonomic treatment. The research into bramble flora has made considerable progress during the last 25 years, and the species of large parts of Europe are now well known including their distribution which is often illustrated by detailed maps.
4181512|Seed bank species-composition and seed-density were determined in a successional calcareous (alvar) grassland in western Estonia. Three similar study areas were chosen to compare two different successional stages: open alvar grassland and overgrown areas with young pine forest 30 to 40 years old. In both successional stages, the centre and the edge of a relatively uniform stand were examined. Fifteen soil samples (7 cm in diameter, 5 cm deep) were taken from each of twelve sampling sites. The seedling emergence method was used to estimate seeds in the soil samples. A total of 69 species were detected in the seed bank, of which 18 did not occur in the vegetation. Eighty-nine taxa were recorded in the vegetation and of these 38 were not detected in the seed bank. Fifty-one species occurred both in the seed bank and in the vegetation. The three most abundant taxa in the seed bank were Carex tomentosa, Linum catharticum and Plantago media, which together made up 49% of the seedlings recorded. Differences in the species compositions of seed bank samples from grassland and forest sites were negligible, although the species richness per area of the above-ground vegetation was significantly higher in the open grassland. The only species tending to be lost from forest site vegetation but still occurring in the forest soil seed bank were Arenaria serpylifolia, Cerastium fontanum and Linum catharticum. About half of all the emerged species from all samples belonged to the transient or short-term persistent seed bank. In the grassland sites there were more species which belonged to the transient seed bank than in the forest sites, where the seed bank contained more short-term persistent type seeds. The seed density was significantly higher in forest sites and lower in grassland sites, which may be explained by the better germination conditions in well-illuminated communities. On the basis of the current study it might be assumed that the soil seed banks of overgrown alvar grasslands which include young pine forests can play a certain role in grassland restoration management.
4179996| Eine neue Gattung und Species aus Tasmanien wird beschrieben: Conotremopsis weberiana. Im Apothecienbau hat die Art einige Merkmale mit den Arten der Gattungen Conotrema Tuck. und Ramonia Stiz. em. Vzda gemeinsam; von diesen unterscheidet sie sich u. a. durch den fadenfrmigen Thallus mit Trentepohlia-Algen. Ihre fdigen Sporen gehren zu den lngsten, die bisher bei den Flechten beobachtet wurden. /// The new genus and species, Conotremopsis weberiana gen. n. et sp. n., described from Tasmania, is distinguished by the following combination of characters: white, filamentous, woolly thallus with Trentepohlia as phycobiont, elongated keeve-like apothecia at first closed, later opening apically, unbranched paraphyses and cylindrical asci containing unusual long filamentous spores with transverse septa. The structure of the apothecium suggests close affinity to Conotrema Tuck. and Ramonia Stiz. em. Vzda. The genus is systematically intermediate between these two genera. 
4181142|Sixth full report on the series Lichenes selecti exsiccati is given. Contributing collectors, dates of issue, taxa determinations and their corrections, list of recipient herbaria and alphabetical index to taxa are reported.
4180353| The present paper deals with cytotaxonomy of Chelidonium majus L. s. 1. taxa and their hybrids. Based on results of hybridization experiments, cytology and reproductive isolation, a new combination, Ch. asiaticum (Hara) Krahulcov, is proposed. The structure of the aggregate is as follows: Ch. majus L. subsp. majus (2n = 12, distributed in Europe), Ch. majus L. subsp. grandiflorum (DC.) Printz (2n = 12, S. Siberia, China) and Ch. asiaticum (2n = 10, E. Asia). Karyotypes of Ch. m. subsp. grandiflorum and Ch. asiaticum are compared in detail. 
4179533| Der Autor hat im Jahre 1966 den ursprnglichen Fundort von Rosa sancti-Andreae Degen et Trautmann beim Stdtchen Szentendre in Ungarn besucht, wo der Strauch, nach dem die neue Art im Jahre 1924 beschrieben wurde, noch immer wchst. Er studierte auch umfangreiches Herbariummaterial aus dem Umkreise der Verwandtschaft der Art und auf Grund dieser Studien gelangte er zur Ansicht, dass Rosa sancti-Andreae Deg. et Trautm. mit der frher beschriebenen Art Rosa pomifera Herrm. bereinstimmt und daher ihr Synonym ist. /// In 1924 Degen and Trautmann described (in Jvorka 1924) a new species Rosa sancti-Andreae, endemic in Hungary. In the opinion of the authors this species is allied to R. tomentosa Sm. but differs from it by having glands on the margins of petals. Comparative studies of test material showed this sign also often on R. mollis Sm. and especially on R. pomifera Herrm. on individuals from various localities in the whole area. As R. sancti-Andreae conforms to R. pomifera Herrm. in other morphological signs (with R. tomentosa Sm. it is not closely related, however, and not even similar), there is no doubt that Degen's and Trautmann's new taxon is in fact Rosa pomifera Herrm. and that the name Rosa sancti-Andreae Deg. et Trautm. ought to be classed with synonyms of this species. 
4181131| The method of pollen analysis was used to study a profile sample taken from the Jestebsk blato mire, the Doksy District (northern Bohemia). The aim of the palaeobotanical analyses was to perform a reconstruction of vegetation and environment for geobotanical and archaeological research purposes. Sediments dating back to the end of the Late Glacial and to both the Early and Middle Holocene were pollenanalytically studied. The results of the pollen analyses recorded the development of vegetation during the end of the Late Glacial, Preboreal, Boreal and Atlantic Periods. Parkline pine stands of the end of the Late Glacial developed to closed pine forests, during the Preboreal. Even during the Boreal, the dominant pine formed forest communities were typical of the area under study, though trees with greater demands on temperature and moisture conditions continued to penetrate the existing communities. During the Lower and the first half of the Upper Atlantic Period, spruce forests and alder woods formed the dominant forest communities in mire. Nevertheless, Pinus was still dominant on extreme sites (both from the edaphic and geomorphological points of view). An early occurrence of Alnus and Picea is another characteristic feature of the studied area. The conclusions drawn from pollenanalytical results were used for the reconstruction of the past environment of the Mesolithic and Neolithic Ages. /// Die Studie legt die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalyse aus dem Moor Jestebsk blato im Doksy-Gebiet dar. Im Zusammenhang mit der komplexen palobotanischen Forschung in der Tschechoslowakei wurde mit den palobotanischen Analysen auch im erwhnten Gebiet begonnen. Der palobotanischen Untersuchungen der Torfsedimente bediente sich auch die modern aufgefasste archologische Forschung, die in diesem Gebiet eine Besiedlung im Palolithikum, Mesolithikum und im Neolithikum festgestellt hat. Die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalyse des Moores Jestebsk blato ermglichten es, eine Rekonstruktion der Vegetationsentwicklung in der jngeren Dryaszeit, im Prboreal, Boreal und im lteren und jngeren Atlantikum durchzufhren. Fr den Zeitraum des jngeren Abschnittes des Holozns fehlen wegen Abwesenheit des zugehrigen Sediments die ntigen Angaben. In der jngeren Dryaszeit (DR3) war das Doksy-Gebiet mit parkartigen Kiefernbestnden mit der absolut vorherrschenden Art Pinus sylvestris bedeckt. Ungelst ist bis jetzt die Frage des Vorkommens der Art Pinus cembra, deren Pollentyp sporadisch gefunden wurde. In die Bestnde waren die baumartigen Birken und Populus tremula eingestreut; im Unterholz befand sich Juniperus. Von den Pollenfunden, von den pedologischen Bedingungen, von den Lichtverhltnissen und auch von anderen Umstnden kann man auch auf das Vorkommen von Hippophae rhamnoides in der DR3 sowie auf einige andere Komponenten der Krautschicht (Selaginella selaginoides, Botrychium, Helianthemum) direkt im Gebiet schliessen. Die Pflanzendecke des Moores Jestebsk blato wurde in diesem Zeitraum von Flachmoorgesellschaften gebildet. Im Prboreal (PB) setzte sich die Bewaldung des Gebietes mit Kiefernbestnden mit Beimischungen von Gehlzen fort, die schon in der DR3 anwesend waren. Den Pollenfunden nach ist es sehr wahrscheinlich, dass im PB schon auch Alnus wuchs. Im Vergleich zu anderen Gebieten der Tschechoslowakei wrde es sich jedoch um ein verhltnismssig frhes Vorkommen handeln. In der Krautschicht klang in Laufe des PB das Vorkommen von Formationen der sptglazialen "Steppentundra" ab. Am Lager herrschten immer noch Flachmoorwiesen-Gesellschaften vor. Im Boreal (BO) war das Doksy-Gebiet mit Kiefernwldern mit Birke bewaldet. Die Verschlechterung der Lichtverhltnisse fhrte zum Rckgang von Juniperus und Hippophae. Ausser Alnus kam im Gebiet vereinzelt auch Picea vor und sporadisch drangen in diesen Raum Tilia, Ulmus und Quercus ein. Zum Unterschied von etlichen mittelleuropischen Gebieten kam es im Doksy-Gebiet, hnlich wie z.B.- im Becken Tebosk pnev, nicht zur Expansion von Corylus. In die Flachmoorgesellschaften des Moores Jestebsk blato begann im BO auch Alnus einzudringen. Im lteren Atlantikum (AT1) breiteten sich im Doksy-Gebiet Laubgehlze aus, vor allem Tilia und Quercus, weniger dann Ulmus und Corylus. Es kam auch zur heftigen Expansion von Alnus und whrend des jngeren Atlantikums (AT2) auch von Picea. Trotzdem bewahrten an extremen Substraten der Sandsteine und Sande Pinus sylvestris immer noch ihre wichtige Stellung. Das Jestebsk blato war im AT1 von Erlenwldern bewachsen, in die im Laufe AT2 Picea eindrang. Gegen Ende dieser Periode bildeten sich in den Randpartien des Moores wahrscheinlich auch Fichten-Erlenwlder und Moor-Fichtenwlder. Die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen haben bewiesen, dass im Mesolithikum die Doksy-Region vorwiegend von schtteren Kiefernbestnden bewachsen war; die Landschaft war leicht zugnglich, passierbar und bersichtlich. Obgleich es vorlufig nicht gelungen ist, mit Hilfe der Pollenanalyse die Existenz von Seen nachzuweisen - die hier aber hchstwahrscheinlich vorhanden waren -, war diese Region fr die mesolithische Besiedlung geeignet. Im lteren und jngeren Atlantikum war das Untersuchungsgebiet schon ziemlich dicht bewaldet. Das eigentliche Becken Jestebsk kotlina war jedoch wegen der ausgedehnten Smpfe fast berhaupt unzugnglich (Flachmoorgesellschaften, Schilfe, Erlenwlder, Fichten-Erlenwlder). Dieses Gebiet ohne grssere Schwierigkeiten zu passieren war nur dort mglich, wo infolge der edaphischen und geomorphologischen Verhltnisse die Kiefernwlder erhalten geblieben sind und dort, wo Bestnde des Eichenmisch- bzw. Eichen-Kiefernwaldes vorhanden waren. Es fehlen die Angaben ber die Entwicklung der Vegetation in den jngeren Zeitabschnitten, da das Sediment fehlt bzw. zerstrt ist. 
4180462|Nine new Alchemilla species and six new varieties are described in subsect. Euvulgares ser. Subglabrae and subsect. Calicinae. Further, for one species a new name is proposed. The plants published as new mostly come from the higher altitudes of the Slovakian mountains. Problems in the treatment of A. obtusa Bus., A. glabra Neyg., and A. incisa Bus. are discussed.
4181319|Aldrovanda vesiculosa, a critically endangered aquatic carnivorous plant, is a species rapidly vanishing from Europe. A map of its recent European distribution is given. Of its earlier distribution area covering a substantial part of Europe, only a few native sites in Hungary, Poland, Romania, Russia and Ukraine remain. On the basis of the literature, field research in Aldrovanda habitats, and experience of its cultivation both in culture and in the field, its ecological requirements and habitat characteristics are reviewed. The most important requirements appear to be a high CO
4180398| This paper deals with 19 species of foliicolous lichens collected in the summer months of 1977 to 1980 during several excursions to the vicinity of the spas Sochi, Gagra and Sukhumi on the east shores of the Black Sea (part of the Colchis). Some new taxa and one new combination are proposed: Raciborskiella minor Vzda (sp. n.), Porina colchica Vzda (sp. n.), Gyalectidium caucasicum (Elenk. et Woronich.) Vzda (comb. n.), G. colchicum Vzda (sp. n.), Bacidia vasakii Vzda (sp. n.). Taxonomical, ecological and plant geographical notes to all species are given. /// Das fast subtropische Klima und das immergrne Laub verschiedener Gehlze in den von Menschen nur wenig beeinflussten Urwldern in den tiefen Bach- und Flusstlern an der Ostkste des Schwarzen Meeres (Kolchis) ermglichen die berraschende Existenz mehrerer Arten tropischer foliicoler Flechten in einem Gebiet, das von den tropischen und subtropischen Zonen weit entfernt in der gemssigten Zone liegt. Whrend mehrerer Exkursionen in den Sommermonaten 1977-1980 in der weiteren Umgebung der Kurorte Soi, Gagra und Suchumi an der Kste der Kolchis wurden insgesamt 19 blattbewohnende Flechten-Arten entdeckt. Einige von ihnen wurden als species novae erkannt, andere bedurften nherer taxonomischer Untersuchungen. Es sind dies die Arten: Raciborskiella minor (sp. n.), Strigula elegans (Fe) Mll. Arg., S. nitidula Mont., Porina colchica (sp. n.), P. hoehneliana (Jaap) R. Sant., P. oxneri R. Sant., P. rubentior (Stirt.) R. Sant., Echinoplaca epiphylla Fe, Gyalectidium caucasicum (Elenk. et Woronich.) Vzda (comb. n.) G. colchicum (sp. n.), Gyalidea phyllophila Vzda, Bacidia apiahica (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr., B. buxi Vzda et Vivat, B. colchica Vzda, B. vasakii (sp. n.), Byssoloma leucoblepharum (Nyl.) Vain em. R. Sant., B. subdiscordans (Nyl.) P. James, Catillaria bouteillei (Desm.) Zahlbr. und Tapellaria cf. epiphylla (Mll. Arg.) R. Sant. Zu allen Arten werden taxonomische Bemerkungen beigefgt. Von Gyalectidium colchicum werden die schuppenfrmigen Hyphophoren nher behandelt. In ihren Hyphenbscheln befinden sich kleinzellige Algen-Zellen, die die Funktion haben, sich zusammen mit dem Hyphenbschel als Flechtendiaspore zu verbreiten. hnlich gebaute Hyphophoren wurden auch bei G. caucasicum und G. filicinum gefunden: sie stellen ein wichtiges Merkmal fr die Gattungscharakteristik von Gyalectidium dar. Fr Catillaria bouteillei und fr viele andere, meist epiphylle Catillaria-, Bacidia- und Lopadium-Arten mit paraplectenchymatischen Excipula, dnnen, meist verzweigten und anastomosierenden, von der Hymenialgelatine kaum abtrennbaren Paraphysen, und mit an den Septen eingeschnrten Sporen mit verleimten Aussenmembranen, wurde eine neue Gattung Lobaca ad interim vorgeschlagen. Bei dieser Gattung, sowie bei den verwandten Gattungen Tapellaria Mll. Arg. em. R. Sant., Sporopodium Mont. em. R. Sant. und Lasioloma R. Sant. wachsen aus dem Lager spezielle, kompliziert gebaute Conidangien, die von Mller Arg. als Kampylidien bezeichnet wurden, von vielen anderen Autoren aber unrichtig fr Fruchtkrper (Conidiomate) parasitisch oder parasymbiontisch auf dem Flechtenlager lebender Pilze (unter den Namen Pyrenotrichum Mont., Chlorocyphella Speg., Cyphella sp., Acleistomyces Batista et Lima, usw.) gehalten wurden. Eine kurze kologische und phytogeographische Charakteristik aller behandelten Arten wird gegeben. 
4180034|The relationship of water deficit, actual water content, area, water loss and stomatal behaviour in leaves of different insertion levels of three members of Indian arid zone Convolvulaceae - Merremia aegyptia, M. dissecta and Ipomoea pes-caprae were measured simultaneously in the month of May, 1974, when field conditions were extremely adverse for growth. The two former species loose far more water than the latter. The values measured varied considerably with the leaf insertion levels and they reversed in I. pes-caprae when compared with Merremia species.
4180498| A new association Teucrio chamaedrys-Festucetum rupicolae, the origin and development of which are due to specific soil relations on lapis as well as to the character of human activity (deforestation, grazing) in the localities or in their close vicinity, was described from the lapis slopes in the Moravian Karst. The species composition of the phytocoenoses of the association and of the two newly described subassociations (-sedetosum, -typicum) is shown in the phytocoenological table. Due attention is given to the synmorphology, synecology, synchorology, and syngenesis of these units. 
4181519| Recent hybrid speciation events between the diploid Cardamine rivularis and the diploid C. amara leading to the triploid C. insueta were investigated with random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). The hybrid nature of C. insueta was confirmed by the additivity of RAPD markers which discriminate the parent species. An unexpectedly high level of genetic variation within C. insueta argues for several hybridization events and/or backcrossing with C. rivularis. A low number of nonparental bands in C. insueta indicates the younger age of this taxon. In contrast to the situation in C. insueta, low variability was observed in the hexaploid C. schulzii, a derivative species of C. insueta. C. schulzii probably originated recently by a single autopolyploidization event. The higher number of non-parental bands in C. schulzii is explained by the changing genetic variability of the parental populations. Evidence for potential gene flow across the ploidy levels is also provided. 
4179699|Six species of the genus Bactrodesmium M. C. Cooke are described in this paper from Czechoslovakia: B. betulicola M.B. Ellis, B. obovatum (Oudemans) M.B. Ellis, B. spilomeum (Berk. et Br.) Mason et Hughes including three new species B. globosum Hol.-Jech., B. pyriforme Hol.-Jech. and B. submoniliforme Hol.-Jech.
4180440|The alpine zones of Ladakh are floristically and geobotanically very interesting. In the past these were poorly known botanically because of the ruggedness and inaccessibility of the area. The varied climatic conditions and habitat types have a main role to play in establishing the vegetation of these zones. A total of 122 taxa were identified from collections made during the summer months (July, August and September) of the year 1976. These areas fall in an altitudinal range of 4000 to 5000 m. Fifteen taxa are reported as new records for this region. Six different habitat types were recognised on the basis of local distribution of these taxa, viz. 1. Rocky and gravelly sites; 2. Alkaline swamps; 3. Silty and clay sites; 4. Stream sites; 5. Meadow and shrub fields and 6. Cultivated field sites. A comprehensive inventory of the flowering plants of this region is given in the paper.
4181549| A revision was undertaken of the high-rank syntaxa of the vegetation occurring in rock fissures, ledges and screes of mainland Greece and Crete. All published phytosociological relevs available were collected and subjected to numerical classification and ordination. Four orders (Androsacetalia vandelii, Onosmetalia frutescentis, Potentilletalia speciosae and Petromaruletalia pinnatae) comprising 8 alliances (one of them new) were distinguished within the Asplenietea trichomanis (rock fissures, clefts, and ledges). The scree vegetation was classified partly within the Thlaspietea rotundifolii (Drypidetalia spinosae with 2 alliances) and partly within the Daphno-Festucetea (Saturejo-Scutellarietalia - a new order, with 2 alliances). Ordination revealed clear differences in floristic composition of the alliances distinguished. The studied chasmophytic vegetation of Greece contains a very high proportion of endemics which serve as diagnostic species of the syntaxa. Further, an analysis of chorological species spectra suggested that the chorological homogeneity of a syntaxon should be considered an important diagnostic feature at high-syntaxon levels. 
4179873|The seeds of Merremia aegyptia are indifferent to light conditions for germination, which becomes 100% in the first 24 hrs. On the contrary, in M. dissecta the highest percentage was found in red light within the first 24 hrs. This difference was lost later on except in far-red. The seedling growth of the two species was least in blue and red lights, respectively. However, the growth of hypocotyl in the former species was faster than the latter.
4181422| Seasonal dynamics of total nonstructural carbohydrates (TNC) and of carbohydrate species (starch, sucrose, glucose, fructose) were followed in rhizomes of Phragmites australis at two sites of the Tebo Biosphere Reserve (Czech Republic): Brann sand pit and Romberk fishpond-western shore, which were classified (according to plant species composition and phosphorus availability) as oligotrophic and hyper-eutrophic, respectively. Phragmites stands at these sites were expanding and retreating, respectively. Rhizomes were sampled within terrestrial parts of the reed stands (at a water depth of about 10 cm). The levels of total non-structural carbohydrates were determined mainly by levels of starch and sucrose, while glucose and fructose were present at comparatively low levels. The most conspicuous differences between the sites were associated with autumnal and March levels of carbohydrates. In March, i.e. at the beginning of vegetative development, TNC and starch levels were lower at the hyper-eutrophic, as compared with the oligotrophic, site. Starch and TNC levels fell from August to September at the hyper-eutrophic, but not at the oligotrophic, site. At the low water depth investigated, the differences between stands in carbohydrate levels do not seem to be large enough to account solely for their different vigour. It is suggested that the effect of water depth needs to be evaluated in more detail. 
4179451| In Sdwestbhmen kommen auf sauren Silikatgesteinen, bereits ausserhalb des Migrations-stromes thermophiler Arten, auf Sdhngen azidophile Trockenrasengesellschaften vor. Diese Gesellschaften wurden als neue Assoziationen beschrieben: Polytricho (pilifero)-Scleranthetum perennis, Cerastio (arvensi)-Agrostetum pusillae und Veronico (vernae)-Poetum bulbosae. Die Bodenbedingungen dieser Assoziationen wurden charakterisiert, ihre syngenetische Bedeutung und Aufgabe bei der Bodenentwicklung definiert. Gleichzeitig wurde die Bodenentwicklungsreihe vom Protoranker ber braunen Ranker, Braunerde-Ranker und Ranker-Braunerde zur oligotrophen Braunerde beschrieben. Das Polytricho-Scleranthetum und das Cerastio-Agrostetum wurden in den neuen Verband Hyperico (perforato)-Scleranthion perennis, das Veronico-Poetum bulbosae in den Verband Veronicion eingereiht. Diese Verbnde wurden in die neugefasste Ordnung Trifolio (arvensi)-Festucetalia ovinae der Klasse Sedo-Scleranthetea eingereiht. /// On the acid crystallic siliceous rocks of the Bohemian Massive in the district of the acidophilous oak forest of the alliance Quercion robori-sessiliflorae, in the territory of the middle part of the Otava river in southwestern Bohemia, the following acidophilous xerophilous grassland communities were described: Polytricho (pilifero)-Scleranthetum perennis on soils of the braun ranker, Carastio (arvensi)-Agrostetum pusillae on soils of the braunerde-ranker and ranker-braunnerde, Veronico (vernae)-Poetum bulbosae on soils of these associations with more or less disturbed surface. These associations are bound to southern slopes at altitudes of about 380-530 m. above sea level. The Polytricho-Scleranthetum differs from the Cerastio-Agrostetum ecologically primarily in the depth of the soil profile (Polytricho-Sceleranthetum ca 10-15 cm., Cerastio-Agrostetum ca. 30-60 cm.). The chemical properties of the soils of both associations are very similar. The soils have a low exchange capacity, a low reserve of exchangeable calcium, magnesium and potassium, and are unsaturated. A higher content of humus and also a higher content of exchangeable calcium occurs in the uppermost layer of the soil profile only. The similarity of the chemical properties of the soil of both associations resulted in little difference in the qualitative floristic composition (especially of the herb layer) of the associations under consideration; they differ mainly in the quantity of each species and the consequent different synmorphology. All the associations described occur in territory which is not reached by the migration-stream of thermophilous species penetrating from central Bohemia up the stream along the Vltava and Otava rivers. Therefore widely distributed species that can be considered only as "xerophilous" predominate in the species lists of these associations; the more thermophilous species are mostly missing. The Polytricho-Scleranthetum and the Cerastio-Agrostetum are stages of the succession series starting from initial association of vascular plants - the Asplenietum septentrionalis occupying the crevices and ledges of siliceous rocks-and continuing through the Polytricho-Scleranthetum and Cerastio-Agrostetum to communities that occupy deep mature soil. This succession is conditioned by the parallel soil development and itself influences the soil development in turn. On crystallic siliceous rocks soil development starts with the protoranker of the Asplenietum septentrionalis and continues with the braun ranker of the Polytricho-Scleranthetum to the braunerde-ranker and further to the ranker-braunerde of the Cerastio-Agrostetum. This soil development would end in the oligotrophic (or mesotrophic) braunerde that represents the climax soil type in these altitudes. To this soil type acidophilous oak forest of the Quercion robori-sessiliflorae would correspond as the climax vegetation. The soil development is seen primarily in the deepening of the soil profile and its morphological differentiation. Changes in the chemical properties of soil are seen in increased exchangeable calcium especially in the upper part of the A-horizon. The succession series described can be considered as primary only in its first stages-Asplenietum septentrionalis and Polytricho-Scleranthetum. The Cerastio-Agrostetum is without doubt a secondary plant community protected against the invasion of woods by man's activity. The Veronico-Poetum can be considered even as a tertiary plant community replacing the Polytricho-Scleranthetum and the secondary Cerastio-Agrostetum on soils with  disturbed surface as the initial stage of a subseries. In deciding the position of the associations described in the phytocenological system the existing systems of different authors were discussed, including on the one hand plant communities of shallow soils in solid rocks and on the other hand plant communities of consolidated or even wind-blown sands. For each plant community unit the validity of its publication was verified and its correct name was established. For classification of the Polytricho-Sceranthetum and the Cerastio-Agrostetum a new alliance -the Hyperico (perforato)-Scleranthion perennis was proprosed. The Veronico-Poetum bulbosae was classified in the alliance Veronicion. Both these alliances were arranged in a new order-the Trifolio (arvensi)-Festucetalia ovinae of the class Sedo-Scleranthetea. A new classification within the Sedo-Scleranthetea was proposed. 
4181201|Grasslands were phytosociologically studied in the lowlands of North Korea. They are represented mainly by lawns in parks and recreation centres. Two new plant communities were distinguished: the association Digitario ciliaris-Zoysietum japonicae with many species of the C
4180799| The vertical structure of pioneer and stabilized mediterranean sand vegetation at Doana National Park has been compared using a non destructive method based on organ frequency analysis. Vertical distribution of organ frequencies and light intensity through the canopy, leaf chlorophyll content, leaf area index, organ biomass, are also discussed for Artemisia campestris subsp. maritima, Scrophularia frutescens, Halimium halimifolium, and Cistus salvifolius. 
4180843| In some collections from the Neotropics ten species of the foliicolous lichen genus Mazosia Mass. (Opegraphaceae) were found. Two of these are described as new taxa: Mazosia pilosa sp. n. and Mazosia pseudobambusae sp. n. A key to all neotropical species is presented and new localities for all of them are reported. /// Die Gattung Mazosia (Opegraphaceae) wurde eingehend in der Monographie von Santesson (1952) taxonomisch bearbeitet. Mit deren Hilfe konnten die Verfasser die relativ reichen epiphyllen Flechtensammlungen bestimmen, die grsstenteils vom jngeren Autor (K. K.) im tropischen Amerika selbst gesammelt, teilweise auch von mehreren Fachkollegen den Autoren zur Verfgung gestellt worden sind. Es konnten viele neue Fundorte von schon frher bekannten Arten festgestellt werden, die hier als Ergnzung zu den Verbreitungsangaben von Santessons Monographie mitgeteilt werden. Im vorliegenden Material wurden auch zwei Arten gefunden, die sich mit keiner der bisher bekannten identifizieren liessen. Sie sind als neue Arten beschrieben: Mazosia pilosa Kalb et Vzda sp. n., mit fr die Gattung ungewhnlichem, haarborstigem Lager und Mazosia pseudobambusae Kalb et Vzda sp. n., die sich durch farblosen Inhalt der Lagerwarzen von der nahe verwandten M. bambusae unterscheidet. Schliesslich wird ein Bestimmungsschlssel aller zehn bislang aus der Neotropis bekannten Mazosia-Arten vorgelegt. 
4179482| Im ersten Teil dieser Arbeit werden die Studienergebnisse ber die Verbreitung einzelner Arten der Gattung Bidens aus den Jahren 1962-1965 angefhrt. Im zweiten Teil werden die Wege sowie die Art und Weise veranschaulicht, wie sich die adventiven Arten der Gattung Bidens in Mitteleuropa verbreiteten. /// In the years 1962-1966 the author carried out research on the distribution of species of Bidens in Czechoslovakian streams and ponds. Bidens frondosus and Bidens radiatus were mapped throughout the country; Bidens cernuus only in Slovakia, because it has a very wide distribution in lowlands and in the submontane belt all over Bohemia and Moravia; Bidens tripartitus was not mapped at all for the same reason. The distribution of Bidens radiatus in Bohemia and Moravia is correlated with the phytogeographical districts. Most of the localities belong to the oligotrophic and mesotrophic substrata of Hercynicum. The centre of the area in the Hercynicum are the ponds of Tebo and Budjovice, as it is a species mainly of stagnant waters. Most of the Pannonicum localities are in Subpannonic districts; only one locality belongs to the Eupannonicum: in Mlnsk pond in southern Moravia. The species is lacking in Slovakia. Bidens frondosus probably started to spread in Czechoslovakia at the beginning of this century. In many districts of Bohemia it is now a common species. It penetrated to Slovakia later and it is still not widespread. Bidens cernuus is relatively common in lowlands and the submontane belt in Bohemia and Moravia; the optimum is to be found in springs. It is lacking in some lower parts of the Slovakien streams, probably due to hydrological conditions (high water in summer, the form of the river bed etc.). This problem should be followed up. Bidens connatus at present occurs in Czechoslovakia in one locality only-Karvin in Silesia (the river Stonvka); it has not been previously indicated in Czechoslovakia in other localities. Ephemeric occurrence of this species is known not only in secondary localities, but also in autochtonic occurrence. Simultaneously with the distribution some ecological problems of the species were studied. The reason why the adventitious species Bidens frondosus has proved stronger than Bidens tripartitus was established. Bidens frondosus germinates 7-10 days earlier than Bidens tripartitus. While Bidens tripartitus has only developed cotyledons, the second species has already 2 pairs of normal leaves. This advantage seems to be the main reason why Bidens frondosus prevailed over the indigenous species. When Bidens pilosus was cultivated in our experimental garden at Prhonice in the years 1963, 1964 and 1966, it has been found that germination takes place already in autumn; this leads to the extermination of young plants by frost, as they are not hardy. This species cannot be easily naturalized under the climatic conditions of Central Europe. All the species studied need places with relatively high amount of water in the soil at the germination time. Bidens radiatus and Bidens cernuus can only grow under terrestrical conditions for a short time. Bidens frondosus B. connatus and B. tripartitus grow on dry soil and fruit very well there in the later development phases. If we remember that Bidens frondosus was found by Krocker in 1777 on the river Odra (Oder) at Wrocaw, and that there existed several old canals connecting the river Odra and Labe (Elbe) with the river Wisa (Vistula), we can conclude that these three rivers need not be the isolated ways the adventitious species spread. The history of the spreading of adventitious species of the genus Bidens in Central Europe has three stages. In the first the species came to Europe, probably by synagestochory. In the second they spread mainly by nautohydrochory down streams and by epizoochory (endozoochory or synagestochory) up streams. In the third stage the species started to spread by means of epizoochory, endozoochory and synagestochory beyond the stream banks. 
4181464|Intraspecific variation of four agamospecies of Hieracium sect. Alpina was studied using RAPD and isozyme techniques. No variation in either multiprimer RAPD or multi-enzyme phenotypes was observed within H. holosericeum, suggesting that this widespread species consists of only a single genotype. A low level of within-population isozyme variation was seen in H. tenuifrons and H. calenduliflorum, the origin of which appears to be consistent with somatic mutation. Most isozyme and all RAPD variation in these two species was partitioned between populations. A strong correlation with geography suggests that its cause may be due to polytopic (=polyphyletic?) origin or perhaps to mutation and dispersal. The most variable species was H. alpinum, in which isozyme variation occurred mostly within populations rather than between them, suggesting occasional sexual events or that the parents of H. alpinum were heterozygous. RAPD variation in this species, in contrast, was partitioned between Scottish and Swiss populations, suggesting the existence of geographical races.
4179803| Die fnfte Studie aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) ist den Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. gewidmet, die in Afrika und auf den benachbarten Inseln (Makaronesien, Kerguelen, Marion-I. u. a.) vorkommen. Im genannten Gebiet wurden 16 Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. festgestellt. Die Arten J. (P.) balfourii sp. nova, J. (P.) dusenii (Steph.) Steph., J. (P.) onraedtii sp. nova, J. (P.) renauldii Steph., J. (S.) abyssinica Nees, J. (S.) perloi (Gola) Va, J. (S.) borgenii Gott., J. (S.) coniflora Schiffn. und J. (S.) mildbraedii Steph. sind taxonomisch eingehend bearbeitet, die verbliebenen 7 Arten mit dem Verbreitungszentrum in anderen Gebieten (J. atrovirens Dum., J. leiantha Grolle und J. pumila With.) wurden bereits in frheren Studien oder werden in weiteren bearbeitet (J. gracillima Sm., J. hyalina Lyell, J. obovata Nees und J. sphaerocarpa Hook.). Die anderen aus dem Gebiet von Afrika bekannten Arten sind mit den oben erwhnten synonymisiert oder zu anderen Gattungen gestellt. Die Arten J. (P.) balfourii sp. nova und J. (P.) onraedtii sp. nova wurden neu beschrieben, die Neukombination Lophozia tristaniana (S. Arnell) comb. nova wurde vorgeschlagen. /// This fifth study of the Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys to the African species of Jungermannia L. emend. Dum., based on sterile and fertile plants. 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, type, material examined and exsiccata of eight African species of the subgenera Plectocolea and Solenostoma. There are also notes on the ecology, geographical distribution, variability, taxonomy and relationships of these taxa. 3. A list of species belonging to other genera. Taxonomically, J. (P.) balfourii Va, J. (P.) dusenii (Steph.) Steph., J. (P.) onraedtii Va, J. (P.) renauldii Steph., J. (S.) abyssinica Nees, J. (S.) perloi (Gola) Va, J. (S.) borgenii Gott., J. (S.) coniflora Schiffn. and J. (S.) mildbraedii Steph. are shown to be good species. Other taxa proved to be habitat modifications or are referred to the synonymy. 
4180087| Der Beitrag bringt Resultate syntaxonomisch-synkologischer Forschungen planarer Erlen-Eschenwlder (Pruno-Fraxinetum Oberd. 1953), die Gleybden mit langsam bewegtem Grundwasser bestocken. Im westlichen Teil der Tschechoslowakei wurden drei Subassoziationen unterschieden: 1. Pruno-Fraxinetum filipenduletosum Mik. 1963 - der feuchteste Flgel der Assoziation auf Nassgley mit hochanstehendem Grundwasser, 2. Pruno-Fraxinetum typicum Oberd. 1957 - die vorherrschende Ausbildung der Assoziation auf von Zeit zu Zeit oberflchlich schwach abtrocknendem Braunerde- oder typischem Gley, 3. Pruno-Fraxinetum listeretosum Mik. 1963 auf karbonathaltigen Gleybden im Kontakt mit Eichen-Hainbuchenwldern. /// This paper includes the results of phytocoenological and ecological research into Pruno-Fraxinetum Oberdorfer 1953 in the Czech Lands. This association represents lowland alder-ash alluvial forest, occuring on gley soils with slowly moving groundwater. In the area studied three subassociations were distinguished: 1. Pruno-Fraxinetum filipenduletosum Mikyka 1963 (differential species: Filipendula ulmaria, Carex acutiformis, Caltha palustris ssp. palustris, Iris pseudacorus, Lycopus europaeus, Ribes nigrum, Carex elongata, C. rostrata, Scutellaria galericulata, Lythrum salicaria bzw. Calliergon cordifolium and Climacium dendroides) - the most hygrophilous form of the association on nassgleys (rarely typical gleys) with high groundwater. The yearly flooded soils are wet to temporarily water-logged, in the dry season moist. 2. Pruno-Fraxinetum typicum Oberdorfer 1957 (lacking differential species) - the most distributed form of the association occuring on braunerde-gleys or typical gleys on the periphery of large alluvial plains, with relatively deep groundwater, not yet inondated. In sommer the soils become dry a little on the surface. 3. Pruno-Fraxinetum listeretosum Mikyka 1963 (differential species: Listera ovata, Arum maculatum, Acer pseudoplatanus, localy also Cornus sanguinea, Daphne mezereum event. Tilia platyphyllos, Galium schultesii, Isopyrum thalictroides, Viola mirabilis) - a community occuring on gley soils (typical, braunerde- or anmoor-gleys) in contact with oak-hornbeam forests. The geographical distribution and an economic evaluation of Pruno-Fraxinetum is discussed and a brief comparison is made with analogous Middle European alluvial forests. 
4179450| Die azidophilen Ginster-Traubeneichenwlder, die als Dauerstadien der Sukzession auf Quarziten im Tribe-Gebirge in der Westslowakei verbreitet sind, gehren systematisch zur Assoziation Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae Zlyomi, Jakucs, Fekete in Zlyomi et Jakucs 1957. Diese Assoziation zerfllt in zwei Subassoziationen, die sich durch phytoznologische Zusammensetzung und durch verschiedene kologie interscheiden: Subass. quercetosum und Subass. fagetosum. Die beschriebene Assoziation ist auf flachgrndigen, stark saueren Bden verbreitet, die bodentypologisch zu oligotrophen Rankern oder Ranker-Braunerden gehren. /// The paper summarizes the results of phytocoenological and ecological studies of acidophilous oak forests on quarzites in the Tribe Mountains in western Slovakia. As regards the phytocoenological system, the oak forests described belong to the association Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae Zlyomi, jakucs, Fekete in Zlyomi et Jakucs 1957. They are distributed on shallow, strongly acid soils poor in nutrients that typologically may be classified in most cases as the grey rankers or ranker brown soils. On the investigated territory the above mentioned association occurs in two subassociations: the drier - quercetosum and the moister - fagetosum, differing in their phytocoenological composition and different ecology of habitat, i.e. by distribution at different altitudes and exposures. In comparison with the stands of Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae described in Hungary, our association represents a "western edge variant" of this association which is characterized by a considerable reduction of xerophilous and thermophilous species of the Quercion pubescenti-petrae alliance and viceversa, by the presence of species of subatlantic tendencies. 
4180819|A total of 112 species in 18 genera in the Portulacaceae were investigated anatomically for the presence or absence of the chlorenchymatous bundle sheath cells around the vascular bundles: C4 or Kranz anatomy. Twenty species in only one genus, Portulaca L. of all the taxa investigated possesses the C4 or Kranz anatomy. All others have the C3 anatomy.
4179472| The chromosome number of A. thaliana from three localities in Central Bohemia was found to be 2n = 10. All the chromosomes (length 1,5-2,6 m) belong to the atelocentric type, four pairs (m) having the centromere in the median and one pair (sm) in the submedian region. In connection with the discussion on the origin of H. suecica the author presents the following preliminary results: a) the failure to cross the tetraploid Cardaminopsis arenosa (L.) Hayek with A. thaliana; b) the successful crossing of the diploid C. petraea (L.) Hiit. with A. thaliana; c) the discovery of a diploid population of C. arenosa (2n = 16) in the Tatra Mts. (Czechoslovakia). 
4179609| Caricetum gracilis Almquist 1929 ist eine Assoziation mit ausgedehnter eurosibirischer Verbreitung, es bewahrt sich jedoch in seinem ganzen Areal eine mehr oder weniger konstante znotische Zusammensetzung, die durch das Grundmerkmal - die Anwesenheit von Carex gracilis als Dominante (Kondominante) und difikator, bedingt ist. Als ausschlaggebender Faktor fr die Entstehung der Gesellschaft kommt der Wasserhaushalt mit charakteristischer Abwechslung der berschwemmungen und Austrocknungen zur Geltung. Die geographischen, klimatischen und bodenkologischen Unterschiede der Standorte ermglichen eine weitere Gliederung der Assoziation in Caricetum gracilis Subass. typicum mit grsstem Verbreitungsgebiet, die in drei Varianten zerfllt, weiter in Caricetum gracilis comaretosum, dessen Areal an nrdliche Teile Mittel- und Osteuropas gebunden ist und das in zwei Varianten zerfllt, und schliesslich in Caricetum gracilis naumburgietosum, das vor allem an das Herzynische Gebiet und den Nordrand der Karpaten gebunden ist. /// In the present paper a survey of existing knowledge of the association Caricetum gracilis Almquist 1929 (= Caricetum gracilis Graebner et Hueck 1931) is given and an evaluation based upon the author's investigation of this association carried out. From studies of Caricetum gracilis throughout Europe it is evident that the prevalent majority of stands of this association represent a substitute community of natural forest communities of the alliance Alnion glutinosae or Alno-Padion; it occurs most frequently and best developed in the inundated parts of broader valleys. Sporadically only, and over a small area, Caricetum gracilis represents the primary community of the filling-in series of stagnant or very sluggish waters. The decisive factor for the rise and perseverance of Caricetum gracilis is the rhythm of the water regime of the habitat, characterized by flood alteration (especially in the springtime) and by at least temporary or longer-term sinking of water under the soil surface during the second half of the vegetation season. If the water regime (and therefore also that of the air) is convenient, the rise of the association is further dependent upon the nutritive conditions of the soil (the enrichement of soil through turbid flood water plays an important role here). The soil type is mostly anmoor (mainly the subtype warp anmoor in the northern part of the distribution area also the subtype peat anmoor). The community only occurs on other soil types in limiting cases - in the initial stages in the filling-in series (fen) or after drainage (gley). The essential feature of the association is the function of Carex gracilis (only one characteristic species) not only as dominant or condominant, but also as the building-up species (edificator), by which the other characters of the cenosis are to a considerable degree determined. Furthermore, in the building-up the community it is mainly the species of superior units or of other parallel units of the class Phragmiti-Magnocaricetea which take part; frequently species of units belonging to the classes Molinio-Arrhenatheretea and Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae and to the alliance Agropyro-Rumicion crispi also take part. The participation of mosses is variable and for the existence of association is not very significant. Monospecific stands of Carex gracilis alone (although this sedge may be very vital in them) are not a typical form of the community and usually represent only a temporary phase. Variable dynamics, regarding both the quantitative and often also the qualitative composition of the community are indeed characteristic of the association and result from its substantial dependence on the changeable conditions of the habitat. On the other hand, however, the community is very resistant against disturbing interferences (temporary changes of habitat); it bears unfavourable conditions for years (though in changed phases) without being destroyed. The association is distributed mainly in the temperate zone of Central and Eastern Europe (perhaps in Siberia, too). Its distribution maximum as well as the most varied differentiation are to be found in the northern part of Central Europe and probably also in the forest zone of Eastern Europe. In the more southern, i.e. more arid regions it is bound more strictly to those parts of larger river valleys which are flooded for long periods. When the syntaxonomical position of this association and its sub-units was dealt with, only those characters were taken into consideration as classification criteria, which are most essential at the respective level. When defining the association on the basis of the building-up position of Carex gracilis, the author started from the assumption that the position of Carex gracilis as edificator is a constant character by which the variability of the cenosis is at the same time limited to a high degree. The differences in the participation of species belonging to various specific groups (by which mainly the deviations of the water and nutrition regime as well as of the climatic and geographic conditions are indicated) make it possible to distinguish several sub-units. The fundamental subassociation - obviously widespread all over the distribution area of the association - is subass. typicum Uhlig 1938 em. Blakov, without special differential species. This subassociation is mainly bound to mineral soils of inundated sites. Within the scope of the subassociation three variants have been distinguished by the author: var. typicum, which is characterized by the lowest number of species and occurs in the moistest sites; var. with Festuca pratensis, which is characterized by a group of differential species belonging to units of the class Molinio-Arrhenatheretea and is bound to more drying-up habitats; and var. with Gratiola officinalis, which represents a Pannonian-Illyrian geographical race and differs - besides the differential species which are all very little constant - also by a slightly shifted ratio of species belonging to individual cenotic groups. The subass. comaretosum Passarge 1955 possesses as differential species mainly the characteristic and differential species of the alliance Magnocaricion (= Caricion rostratae Bal-Tul. 1962). Conspicuous is also the higher total share of species belonging to the units of the class Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae. The subassociation divides into var. comaretosum (= typicum), without any differential species, and into var. with Ranunculus repens, which to a certain degree bears resemblance to subass. typicum. A new subass. naumburgietosum has been described. The differential species group of which resembles that of subass. comaretosum, but in the floristic respect it differs quantitatively - by a different ratio of differential species as well as by a different ratio of participation of species belonging to individual cenotic groups. In denominating the units priority rules have been observed, however, some names used in the literature are synonyms, or the units designated by them have been included in units denominated before. At the end of this paper the economic evaluation of the stands of the Caricetum gracilis has been carried out and ways of most productive exploitation and amelioration have been suggested. 
4179790| Die vierte Studie aus der Serie vorbereiteter Studien ber die Subfam. Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) enthlt die allgemeine Charakteristik (Synonymik, Beschreibung, Sektionsschlssel und kurze Charakteristik der Sektionen) des Subg. Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. und des Subg. Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. Beide Subgenera sind artenreich; die Arten werden in folgenden Studien aus rein praktischen Grnden nach den geographischen Gebieten bearbeitet. Diese Studie ist den sd- und mittelamerikanischen Arten gewidmet; im genannten Gebiet wurden 4 Arten des Subg. Plectocolea und 4 Arten des Subg. Solenostoma festgestellt. Die Arten J. (S.) amoena Lindenb. et Gott., J. (P.) callithrix Lindenb. et Gott., J. (S.) crassula Nees et Mont., J. (P.) decolor Schiffn. und J. (S.) linguifolia Gott. sind taxonomisch eingehend bearbeitet; die verbliebenen 3 Arten mit dem Verbreitungszentrum in anderen Gebieten sollen in den nchsten Studien bearbeitet werden. Die anderen aus dem Gebiet von Sd- und Mittelamerika angegebenen Arten wurden mit den obenerwhnten Arten synonymisiert oder zu anderen Gattungen gestellt. Zwei neue Kombinationen wurden vorgeschlagen, u. zw. Kymatocalyx cubensis (Gott.) Va comb. nova und Gongylanthus limbatus (Herz.) Grolle et Va comb. nova; Jungermannia Subg. Solenostoma Sect. Luridopsis Va sect. nova wurde beschrieben. /// This fourth study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Synonymy, description, keys to section and brief notes on the sections of the subgenera Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. and Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. of the genus Jungermannia. 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, type and exsiccata of five Central and South American species of the subgenera Plectocolea and Solenostoma. There are also notes on ecology, geographical distribution, taxonomy, variability and relationships of these taxa. 3. A list of species belonging to other genera. Taxonomically J. (P.) decolor Schiffn., J. (P.) callithrix Lindenb. et Gott., J. (S.) amoena Lindenb. et Gott., J. (S.) crassula Nees et Mont. and J. (S.) linguifolia Gott. are treated as good species. Many other taxa are considered to be habitat modifications. The keys include all South and Central American species. 
4181002|Aerial photography with a balloon-suspended camera is a suitable tool for surveying aquatic vegetation and for measuring water movements. Examples from the lake Lunzer Untersee (Austria) are given.
4179924|In this paper the Theory of Biological Equilibrium (TBE), as the theoretical basis of the Canonical Hypothesis, is used to compute a set of theoretical parameters of natural ecosystems. These parameters are the individuals: species (I/S); the commonness: rarity (C/U) ratio, as well as the expected density
4181247|The method and preliminary results of a simple morphoanatomical survey combined with field studies of the populations as some species of Vellozia from Brazil are presented and briefly discussed.
4180367|The following bioclimatological characteristics were measured on differently aged successional stages of abandoned fields: temperature on soil surface under snow layer, and depth of frozen soil in period of culminating frosts, daily course of temperature in top soil layer; maximum temperature in top soil layer during first half of June. Results are compared with general assumptions about the development of abiotic factors during succession and discussed from the point of view of the ecological theory of stability.
4181305| This study presents results of a three and a half year experiment in a calcareous grassland on the Baltic island of land, south-eastern Sweden. Environmental conditions, viz. nutrient regime, water availability, light conditions and grazing pressure were changed in a randomised experimental design with ten different combinations of these factors, including a control. Weather conditions during the study period fluctuated considerably. Only the combination of reduced light and increased soil nutrient availability decreased species richness significantly, presumably by inducing asymmetric competition for light by competitively strong species. Physical space also became less available for weaker competitors. In cases where only nutrients or only water were supplied in sufficient amounts, competitive exclusion was inhibited by either low nutrient or low water availability. Under conditions which combined high levels of nutrient and water supply with regular disturbance (i.e. simulated grazing) high species richness was maintained. Although there was a significant negative correlation between species richness and amount of above-ground biomass, the number of species was not significantly reduced in the treatment which combined fertilisation and irrigation. One reason for this may be that the heterogeneous light regime in this treatment still allowed species persistence and coexistence. 
4181271| We present a literature survey of studies using molecular markers to investigate genet diversity and structure in clonal plants. The data from 40 studies comprised 45 species of which only two were studied by DNA methods, the rest by isozyme markers. Less than one third of the studies provided information about the spatial distribution of individual genets within populations, and only 12.5% of the studies used mapping of all ramets within plots or part of the population in combination with identification of multilocus genotypes. We also present two case studies. In Glechoma hederacea morphological criteria were used to select clones. Multi-samples of ramets within these "clones" turned out to be variable using isozymes indicating that these "clones" in most cases consisted of several genets. One individual multilocus genotype covered tens of square metres. In Hylocomium splendens samples from 10  10 cm plots usually consisted of a mixture of multilocus genotypes, but occasionally the whole plot consisted of one genet. 
4180562|203 species of Lycopodium are reclassified to Huperzia and new nomenclatural combinations are proposed for them. Huperzia Bernh. 1801 is accepted in a broad circumscription, i.e. including Phlegmariurus (Herter) Holub 1964. New nomenclatural combinations are also proposed for 19 species of Lycopodium transferred to the following generic segregates: Diphasium (5), Lycopodiella (1), Palhinhaea (11) and Pseudolycopodiella (2).
4180295| The chorology and ecology of Sisymbrium volgense Bieb. ex E. Fourn. in Czechoslovakia is reviewed. There are also brief data on the history of the spread and ecology in other countries. A list of localities in Czechoslovakia and a distribution map is provided. /// Sisymbrium volgense Bieb. ex E. Fourn. wurde zum erstenmal in der Tschechoslowakei im Jahre 1960 in Pardubice festgestellt. Im J. 1980 waren in unserem Gebiet schon 51 Lokalitten in der planaren und kollinen (-submontanen) Stufe bekannt (Fig. 2) Die Art kommt besonders auf Eisenbahnhfen (28 Lokalitten) auf freier Strecke (6 Lokalitten) und bei Getreidemhlen, Getreidelagern und Getreideumladepltzen (6 lokalitten) vor; auf einer bis vier Lokalitten ist sie aus Flusshfen, stdtischen Strassen, Schuttpltzen und einem Teichufer bei der Entenfarm bekannt. Fast alle Lokalitten in der Tschechoslowakei verdanken ihren Ursprung der Einschleppung von Diasporen mit sowjetischem Konsumweizen (cf. Fig. 1). Ausnahmsweise wurde S. volgense wahrscheinlich mit Futtergetreide (UdSSR) oder mit der Saatgut (UdSSR) eingeschleppt. S. volgense ist bei uns eine charakteristische Art des Ostweges der Adventiven. Fast auf allen Lokalitten ist sie ausdauernd und breitet sich weiter aus, u. zw. nicht nur vegetativ, sondern auch generativ, besonders in wrmeren Gebieten. Die Art kommt bei uns bisher nur als Epoekophyt vor. Sie wurde Dank ihrer biologischen Eingeschaften unter Quarantnunkruter eingereiht. Zum Vergleich werden auch kurze Angaben ber die Chorologie und kologie der S. volgense im Ausland beigeschlossen. Die Mehrheit der Lokalitten im Gebiet des sekundren Areals verdankt ihren Ursprung vor allem der Einschleppung der Diaporen mit eingefhrten sowjetischen Getreide. Ausser der UdSSR, wo die Art in Steppen im Sdosten des europischen Teiles einheimsich ist und wo sie in Europa auch ausser dem Gebiet ihres ursprnglichen Areals verbreitet ist, wurde sie vom J. 1880 in 12 europischen Lnderen verzeichnet. Ausser Europa ist sie bisher nur aus dem Fernen Osten der UdSSR bekannt. Nach Angaben aus den europischen Lndern verhlt sie sich expansiver in relativ kontinentaleren Lndern, wie z.B. in der Tschechoslowakei (51 Lokalitten), Polen (16 Lokalitten), Deutschland (eine grssere Anzahl Lokalitten), Finnland (22 Lokalitten), In westlicher Richtung ist sie in der Regel weniger vital mit einem beschrnkten Vorkommen nur auf einer oder einigen Lokalitten. In Zukunft kann man eine weitere Ausbreitung des sekundren Areals dieser relativ expansiven Art erwarten. 
4179448| Diese Studie behandelt die in der Phytogeographie allgemein bentzten Termini vom Gesichtspunkte ihrer Begrenzung und Vereinheitlichung. Jeder Terminus wird definiert, seine lateinische Bezeichnung, sowie auch Beispiele und in manchen Fllen auch Zeichnungen und Karten wurden beigefgt. In der Studie wird die Terminologie der horizontalen und vertikalen Einteilung der Erdoberflche, weiter die Terminologie verschiedener Typen von Arealen, Disjunktionen, Elementen, Endemiten, Relikten, Dealpinen, Vikarianten, synanthropischen Pflanzen, usw. angefhrt. /// The authors collected the terms of general phytogeography dispersed in the literature, evaluated them and in the present study they suggest proper terms to be used. Terms which were lacking have been created. Thus as far as the main results are concerned several items can be given: A new term "septentrional zone" is suggested for the temperate zone of the northern hemisphere; the term "boreal" which has been used up to now will be kept to designate a floristic region which is only a part of this zone. A double system for vertical division is used, i. e. a general one of which the vegetation-belt is the basic unit and a special one (elaborated here for the region of SSR) in which the basic unit is the vegetation-grade. The term "element" is used only in composite terms such as floristic element and region-element; instead of the term "genetic element" the term "ortant" and instead of the term "migrations-element" the term "migrant" are suggested; further the term "area-type" is suggested instead of the terms "geographic element", "component" and partially "geoelement". The authors differentiate strictly between the terms "area-type" and "floristic element"; in determining the area-type, attention must be paid to the whole distribution of the plants, the area-type can be determined for all taxa. The floristic element, however, shows a narrow relation of the distribution of the taxon to a certain natural floristic region and cannot be determined for all taxa. The floristic element can be further divided into the genuine floristi element, subelement, penetrant and conelement. The term "endemic" is suggested only for taxa of autochthonous origin, not for taxa with a limited distribution (area), where the term "microarealophyte" showed be used. With regard to this basic attribute of the endemic it is necessary to differentiate strictly between endemics and relics. For regions where relics have survived the following two terms are used: refugium and residuum, according to whether the region did or did not belong to the former area of the taxon examined. As to the type of relations of the taxa in the course of their migration regarding a certain region the following terms are suggested: restant, superstant, fugant, residuant, transient, demigrant, remigrant, reservant and immigrant. The term "praealpine" is not used by the authors of the present study in view of the different use of this term by former authors. The term "perialpine" is used instead of it for its original meaning. For the designation of taxa which extend from the lower regions of their original distribution to higher regions, the term "penalpine" has been suggested. For the classification of synanthropic plants a system is suggested, which endeavours to take into the consideration the basic types of relation of the distribution of the plants to human activity. 
4181104|A new monotypic genus Burnsbaloghia Szlachetko - based on the species Spiranthes diaphana Lindl. - originating from the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described. Four illustrations are provided.
4179682|From the Caspian coastal region of Iran a new taxon, Sparganium erectum L. subsp. mazanderanicum Ponert, is described and illustrated. This new subspecies in some of its characters is near to Sparganium erectum L. subsp. microcarpum (Neumann) Domin (with its east distribution trend); in other characters it is near to Sparganium erectum L. subsp. neglectum (Beeby) Schinz et Thell. (with ist south distribution trend). A comparative table of diacritical characters of these three subspecies is appended.
4180816|The present review gives an account of the applicability of mathematical modelling in ecological succession studies. The ability of particular model types to solve problems of both theory and management is discussed. The Markovian models are found to be useful for short term predictions, but of very limited value for theoretical considerations. Finally, the predictability of successional pathways is discussed. It is argued that the less we understand about processes in vegetation dynamics, the more we will see the course of succession as random and unpredictable.
4181354|It has been suggested that variation in the proportion of species in guilds (= guild proportionality) indicates community structuring by guilds in biotic communities. This hypothesis was tested on a subthermophilous grassland and a mesotrophic meadow at a scale of
4181541|The main objective of the present study was to attempt to assign different vegetation types in South Sweden to the Braun-Blanquet system of syntaxa. The alliance was chosen as the most appropriate phytosociological unit for this purpose. Coniferous forests represent the zonal vegetation in large parts of South Sweden: spruce forests on mesic to moist sites and pine forests on dry, often strongly oligotrophic sites can be assigned to the Piceion excelsae and Dicrano-Pinion respectively. In addition, various types of azonal vegetation (e.g., mires, springs, swamps and salt-marshes) subjected to some form of extreme environmental factor can be placed in alliances described from Central Europe. In contrast, some southern vegetation types in Sweden are difficult to assign, partly due to a lack of character species, as in the case of deciduous hardwood forests. In other cases, species of southern syntaxa are still frequent, for example in dry basiphilous grasslands and sun-exposed forest edges, but the syntaxonomical difficulties arise from an intermixture of diagnostic species of complementary alliances. This might be explained by the floristic and climatic conditions in South Sweden which deviate considerably from those in e.g. Germany, a feature supported by the communities' indicator figures for temperature and continentality. This refers particularly to the combination of rather low average temperatures and, except in the west, a strong thermal or hygric continentality.
4179608|In this paper the syntaxonomy and ecology of the following plant communities is discussed: Montio-Cardaminetalia: Montion: Philonoto-Saxifragetum stellaris; Koenigio-Microjuncion: Equiseto palustris-Sedetum villosi, Koenigio-Agrostetum stoloniferae; Litorelletalia: Subularion aquaticae: Subulario-Ranunculetum reptantis; Isoetion lacustris: Ranunculo-Isoetetum lacustris.
4179670| Einer bersicht der Naturverhltmisse folgt eine kurzgefasste Charakteristik der Vegetation nach der floristisch-soziologischen Methode (Braun-Blanquet-Schule). Die folgenden Einheiten wurden analysiert: Gesellschaften des Potamion eurosibiricum, Scirpo-Phragmitetum, Caricetum rostratae, Caricetum gracilis, Caricetum fuscae, Caricetum dioicae, Carici-Festucetum rubrae ass. nova prov., Trifolio-Festucetum rubrae, Nardo-Festucetum capillatae, Nardo-Juncetum squarrosi und andere Nardetalia-Weiden, Calluno-Antennarietum und andere Calluno-Ulicetea-Gesellschaften, Sphagnetum magellanici, Pino rotundatae-Sphagnetum, Vaccinio uliginosi-Pinetum, Calamagrosti villosae-Piceetum, weiter ein montaner Kiefern-Birkenbruch, sekundre Verlandungsstadien, Fichtenforste auf Lagen von Heidelbeer-Buchenwldern (Luzulo-Fagion), Fichtenforste auf Lagen von krautreichen Buchen- und Ahornwldern (Eu-Fagion und Acerion pseudoplatani), Fichtenforste auf Lagen azidophiler montaner Buchenwlder (Verticillato-Fagetum), Ackerunkrautgesellschaften der Plner- und der Silikatbden. Alle Assoziationen (ausgenommen der fragmentarisch entwickelten) sind durch Aufnahmetabellen belegt. Die Verbreitung der angefhrten Gesellschaften ist auf der Karte der realen Vegetation dargestellt. /// The plant cover of a small territory in the central part of the Bohemian-Moravian Highlands (see Fig. 1) is described in this paper. The most important data on topographical and geological conditions are to be seen in Fig. 2 and 3, on climate in Tab. 1. The investigated territory belongs, from the phytogeographical point of view, to the Hercynicum (Eu-Hercynicum), to the district of "drsk vrchy". Subatlantic-montane species such as Juncus squarrosus and Festuca tenuifolia are characteristic, besides submontane forest species, peat-bog species and some relic blanket-bog species (Carex chordorrhiza, Scorpidium scorpioides, Paludella squarrosa, Meesia triquetra). The moderate xerothermic species only seldom penetrate on chalky soils up to the centrum of the territory. The vegetation is noted for many communities, however poor in species. The floating-leaved communities are developed only in fragments, although ponds cover a great area in the investigated territory (ponds used as swimming pools, unfavorable climatic conditions). No associations could be described here. The reed and tall sedge communities occupy only the sublittoral zone of the ponds. The reed swamps were classified as Scirpo-Phragmitetum W. Koch 1926, the tall sedge communities were divided into Caricetum rostratae Rbel 1912 and the Caricetum gracilis Almquist 1929 (see Tab. 3). The secondary stages of the ancient pools (rising after peat digging) and drainage channels mostly represent a mosaic of small segments. They are formed by mono-species stands or by stands extremely poor in species. The most important dominants of these stages are: Sphagnum cuspidatum, S. recurvum, Eriophorum vaginatum, Carex rostrata, C. lasiocarpa, Eriophorum angustifolium and chamaephytes. Peat-bog meadows of the alliance Caricion canescenti-fuscae Nordhagen 1936 are represented by Caricetum fuscae Br.-Bl. 1915 (Tab. 4) and Caricetum dioicae Klika et marda 1944 (Tab. 4). They are mostly of secondary origin. The semicultivated meadows formed by amelioration of peat-bog meadows were described as Carici-Festucetum rubrae ass. nova prov. (see Tab. 5). Its systematical position is not clear. The most frequent cultivated meadow of the mineral soils was identified with Trifolio-Festucetum rubrae Oberd. 1957 (alliance Arrhenatherion elatioris [Br.-Bl. 1925] W. Koch 1926). Although this association has not been hitherto mentioned from Czechoslovakia, it belongs to the widely distributed communities of the submontane zone, above all in the region of Hercynicum. The pastures are represented by two clearly cut associations (Nardo-Festucetum capillatae Klika et marda 1944 and Nardo-Juncetum squarrosi [Nordhagen 1920] Bker 1942, see Tab. 7) and as well by an insufficiently known group fo the Hygro- up to Xeronardeta. The dwarf shrub heats grow above all on the drained and deforested parts of the peat-bogs, but also on rough mineral soils (see Tab. 8). Dwarf scrub heats of mineral soils were classed with the Calluno-Antennarietum Tx. 1937, those on peat soils are noted for stages (the terminal stage of the secondary regeneration of peat-bog, degradation stage after drainage and deforestation), because there are no characteristic species here and our material is insufficient for syntaxonomic evaluation. The peat-bog communities (Sphagnetum magellanici [Malcuit 1929] Schwickerath 1933, Pino rotundatae-Sphagnetum [Kstner et Flssner 1933] Neuhusl 1969, Vaccinio uliginosi-Pinetum Kleist 1929 em. Matuszkiewicz 1962 and the montane Pinus sylvestris-Betula pubescens peat-bog forest) are only compared in the synthetical table, because they will be analysed in detail in another publication (Neuhusl Ms.). The natural spruce forests (Calamagrosti villosae-Piceetum F. K. Hartmann 1953, see Tab. 10) of the alliance Vaccinio-Piceion are bound with damp and cool terrain depressions in the investigated territory which is situated in the Fagion zone. They are spread secondarily on the dead, partly drained, margins of the peat-bogs. The cultural forests were divided, on the base of their correspondence to the natural potential vegetation, as follows: secondary spruce forests on the sites of acidophilous beech forests, (alliance Luzulo-Fagion Lohmeyer et Tx. 1954), on the sites of the beech and maple forests reech in herbs (suballiances Eu-Fagion Oberd. 1957 em. Tx. 1960 and Acerion pseudoplatani Oberd. 1957) and on the sites of acidophilous montane beech forests (Verticillato-Fagetum Oberd. 1957). No sociological analyses have been carried out in the secondary spruce forests; their classification is based on the terrain factors and the presence of rest species. Two groups of field weed communities, corresponding to the eutrophic (on chalky soils) and oligotrophic (on silicate rocks) substrates were distinguished. The differences between the Campanula rapunculoides-Myosotis arvensis community (on chalky soils) and the Apera spicaventi-Vicia tetrasperma community (on siliceous soils) can be seen in Tab. 11. Both communities show the closest dependence on the alliance Aphanion arvensis Malato-Beliz et al. 1960, however they have also a great number of species of the alliance Polygono-Chenopodion W. Koch 1926 em. Siss. 1946. Practically, no differences have been found between weed communities of the cereal and intertilled crops. The map of the real vegetation shows the distribution of the above mentioned communities in the investigated territory (see Fig. 4). 
4181204|A new species of Myosotis ser. Palustres M. Pop., Myosotis margaritae, related to the M. caespitosa group, is described from Bulgaria. Diploid chromosome number (2n=20) is given for the new species, and notes on its distribution, ecology and taxonomic relationships are presented.
4179685| The name Legeriomyces Pouz. is proposed for Genistella Lger et Gauthier (Trichomycetes), which is a later homonym of Genistella Ortega (Papilionaceae). Simultaneously the family name Legeriomycetaceae Pouz. is proposed to replace the family name Genistellaceae Lger et Gauthier. 
4180880| The paper summarizes hitherto known data concerning the biology and ecology of Sagittaria sagittifolia. The distribution of this species in Czechoslovakia was assessed on the basis of literature data, herbarium specimens and the authors' own data. The occurrence of this species in plant communities is shown in tables from selected phytocoenological relevs. The chemical properties of the substratum in habitats of Sagittaria sagittifolia over all its distribution area in Czechoslovakia were studied and comparisons calculated by means of cluster analysis. Life cycle, seed production, germination and biomass production of this species were studied and compared with conditions in its habitats. 
4179975| A survey of the present vegetation of the Prokop Valley Nature Reserve revealed the following natural communities: Erysimo crepidifolii-Festucetum valesiacae Klika 1933, Alysso saxatilis-Festucetum Klika 1941, Allio montani-Sedetum albi Klika 1939, Helianthemo cani-Caricetum humilis ass. nova, Helianthemo cani-Seslerietum calcariae Klika 1933, Primulo veris-Seslerietum calcariae Zlatnk 1928, Prunion spinosae So (1931) 1940 em. Tx. 1952, Prunion fruticosae Tx. 1952, Scabioso ochroleucae-Brachypodietum pinnati Klika 1932, Salvio nemorosae-Melicetum transsilvanicae ass. nova, Lathyro versicoloris-Quercetum pubescentis Klika 1932, Geranio-Peucedanetum cervariae (Kuhn 1937) Th. Mller 1961, Galio-Carpinetum Oberdorfer 1957, Aceri-Carpinetum Klika 1941, Luzulo-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Passarge 1953, Genistion Bcher 1943, Mentho-Juncetum inflexi Lohmeyer 1953. For the anthropogenic vegetation another group of units was used. The species composition, environmental relationships and area of distribution are given for every mapping unit; characteristic soil properties for most important units of natural vegetation are also discussed. 
4181282|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat & Moravec 1994), the present work collects the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1991. The list comprises 76 names of syntaxa; one name is added to the Index 1989 (Theurillat & Moravec 1992).
4180069| The paper sums up the first knowledge obtained from the study of seasonal changes in the growth and decomposition rate of underground plant biomass in a grassland community (Polygalo-Nardetum) in the highland eskomoravsk vrchovina. The maximum increment of underground organs per day was recorded in late summer (
4180993| The ecology of seed germination was examined in air-conditioned boxes in the laboratory, and the sprouting conditions of seeds were investigated in an experimental plot at Prhonice. It was found that the seeds showed no marked dormancy, but that by stratification or putting of seeds into cool soil the speed and abundance of germination was enlarged, especially at low temperatures. The optimum temperatures for germinating are 10/25-30 C and 15C (see the table). At the temperature of 3 C the seeds did not germinate. The sprouting of seeds which got into the soil at the end of summer or at the beginning of autumn goes off mostly from October to November and again in spring, about the middle of April. The young plants with one pair of true leaves for the most part hibernate. In natural conditions this species reproduced only in the generative way, by seeds, in laboratory conditions the possibility of vegetative propagation by cuttings is also reported. The main way of spreading is by anemochory (steppe runners). 
4179777|In the discussion about Glomera and Glossorhyncha reasons are given how to delimit and redefine the two genera. The genus Giulianettia is merged into Glossorhyncha. A list of species belonging to each genus is included resulting in several new combinations.
4181083| Species of family Cuscutaceae belonging to three genera, viz. Grammica, Monogynella and Cuscuta s. str. were studied in Egypt, some of them also in Iraq. Descriptions, keys, tables with comparisons of main morphological features, as well as taxonomic, chorological, and ecological notes, and also phytocartograms of the following taxa growing or expected in Egypt are given: Grammica campestris (Yuncker) Hada et Chrtek, G. chinensis (Lam.) Hada et Chrtek, Monogynella monogyna (Vahl) Hada et Chrtek, Cuscuta pedicellata Ledeb., C. epilinum Weihe ex Boenn., C. palaestina Boiss. (incl. C. balansae Boiss. et Reuter ex Yuncker), C. planiflora Ten. (incl. C. approximata Babingt.), and C. brevistyla A. Rich. A new variety of Monogynella monogyna, var. hadacii, was described from Iraq. A new combination, Monogynella monogyna subsp. esquamata (Engelm.) Chrtek et Osbornov, was made. Main attention was given to Grammica campestris, the species that is nowadays expanding in Egypt. 
4179530|Changes of plant communities (or biotic communities) are classified according to their causes. The term succession is restricted in Clements' original sense to gradual directional replacemental changes of phytocenoses (or biocenoses) caused by their reaction upon the environment including soil development and a classification of succession is proposed. Gradual changes of communities caused by external factors are termed adaptive changes. The connection between succession and soil development as a unified process as well as the concept of climax as its result are discussed. A brief historical survey of the theory of succession as well as soil development is presented and definitions of some successional terms are proposed.
4179842| The lectotype of the name Malcolmia pyramidum C. Presl in Abh. Bhm. Ges. Wiss. ser. 5 (3) 439 (1845) was established in material deposited in the herbarium of the Botanical Institute of the Charles University Praha, (PRC). 
4181262|Morphological plasticity in clonal plants has received wide attention because localized plastic changes in spacer length, branching intensity and branching angle may enable clonal plants to place ramets selectively in the more favourable microhabitats within a heterogeneous environment. These responses have been interpreted in terms of foraging behaviour. Studies of morphological plasticity in clonal plants are usually carried out with one or two genotypes of a species, or with material of unknown genetic origin. Based on the concept of phenotypic plasticity, it is argued that such studies do not reveal whether plasticity in a population can be modified by natural selection. In addition, responses are often evaluated at two environmental conditions only, which may underestimate plasticity. Hence, our information on the ecological and evolutionary significance of morphological plasticity in clonal plants is still very incomplete. Two examples are given to show that stolon internode and rhizome lengths may vary considerably within an individual plant. Only a minor part of this variation may be plastic, i.e. the variation is hardly changed by the environmental conditions to which the plants are subjected. Hence, non-plastic variation in clonal morphology may exceed the degree of morphological plasticity. The non-plastic variation seems to originate from species-specific patterns of stolon and rhizome development. Marked non-plastic variation may obscure the effects of morphological plasticity on the placement pattern of ramets in the field, suggesting that plasticity in clonal morphology may not be very effective in terms of foraging for favourable patches. Possible reasons for the low levels of plasticity of clonal spacers are discussed.
4179726| Chromosome numbers are reported for two Mongolian species, Dracocephalum foetidum Bunge (2n = 12) and Koenigia islandica L. (2n = 14). The relationship of D. foetidum to D. moldavica L. (2n = 10) and some patterns of phenotypic variation in K. islandica are briefly discussed. The following new combinations are proposed: K. cyanadra (Diels) Msek et Sojk, K. forrestii (Diels) Msek et Sojk, K. hubertii (Lingelsh.) Msek et Sojk, and K. nummularifolia (Meisn.) Msek et Sojk. 
4181219|Chromosome numbers were counted in Butomus umbellatus from 99 localities in both Czech and Slovak Republics and the karyotype morphology was studied. Basic chromosome sets are asymmetrical and uniform among diploids (2n = 26) and triploids (2n = 39). Diploids occur less frequently than triploids in this region. Their clonal populations are usually fertile owing to self-compatibility. The clonal populations of triploids are self-incompatible and usually sterile. Thus, the different self-compatibility is the main biological character distinguishing diploids from triploids. Pollen of triploids is viable in spite of meiotic irregularities in pollen mother cells (PMCs). Hybridization both between cytotypes and between the different triploid genets may take place, if they occur sympatrically. Offspring having diverse chromosome numbers between diploid and triploid level can originate as the consequence of such hybridization.
4181206| An introduction is presented to a taxonomic evaluation of rich cultivated and herbarium material of the genus Taraxacum from the Caucasus. Sources of the material, a survey of localities, and a preliminary account of the sections and species groups of Taraxacum described from the Caucasus are given. The introduction is followed by a monograph of T. sect. Porphyrantha, a section shown (contrary to the original conception and some literature data) to be endemic to the Caucasus. Six new species are described belonging to the section divided in two subsections, subsect. Porphyrantha and subsect. Haemantha, viz. T. pseudoporphyranthum, T. vepallidum, T. haemanthum, T. ignivomum, T. exstinctum and T. deminutum. Lectotypes are selected for T. porphyranthum Boiss. and T. pseudoroseum ikin. 
4179876| Die achte Studie ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) ist den Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum., die in Australien, Neuseeland und Ozeanien vorkommen, gewidmet. Die meist endemischen Arten, die auf Hawaii vorkommen, werden als eine selbstndige (neunte) Studie bearbeitet. Im genannten Gebiet wurden 13 Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. festgestellt. J. (P.) hasskarliana (Nees) Steph., J. (P.) obliquifolia (Schiffn.) Va, J. (P.) tetragona Lindenb., J. (P.) hirticalyx Steph., J. (P.) minutiverrucosa Amak., J. (P.) wattsiana Steph., J. (S.) ariadne Tayl., J. (S.) totipapillosa Hodgs., J. (S.) inundata Hook. fil. et Tayl. emend. Mitt. und J. (S.) orbiculata (Col.) Grolle sind eingehend taxonomisch bearbeitet, J. (P.) micrantha (Mitt.) Steph. wird in die nchste Studie eingereiht. J. (P.) boninensis (Horik.) Inoue wurde von Inoue (Inoue et Iwatsuki 1969) eingehend beschrieben und abgebildet, Haplozia comptonii Pears. wurde schon im 2. Teil diskutiert. Die anderen aus dem Gebiet bekannten Arten sind mit den obenerwhnten Arten synonymisiert oder zu anderen Gattungen gestellt. /// This eight study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys according to sterile and fertile plants to the species of the genus Jungermannia L. emed. Dum. growing in Australia, New Zealand and Oceania (excl. Hawaii). 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, data on the type and exsiccata of ten Jungermannia species from the cited area. There are also notes on ecology, geographical distribution, taxonomy, variation and relationships of these taxa. 3. A list of species belonging to other genera. Taxonomically J. (P.) hasskarliana (Nees) Steph., J. (P.) obliquifolia (Schiffn). Va, J. (P.) tetragona Lindenb., J. (P.) hirticalyx Steph., J. (P.) minutiverrucosa Amak., J. (P.) wattsiana Steph., J. (S.) ariadne Tayl., J. (S.) totipapillosa Hodgs., J. (S.) inundata Hook. fil. et Tayl. emend. Mitt. and J. (S.) orbiculata (Col.) Grolle are treated as good species. Many other taxa are considered to be habitat modifications. 
4180410| Fir-spruce forests and climax spruce forests of the western part of the Slovensk Beskydy and Oravsk Magura Mts. are syntaxonomically described. Beech forests are also mentioned marginally, to distinguish the natural floristic differentiation between coniferous and deciduous phytocoenoses. 
4180020| Eine neue foliikole Flechte (Pleurotrema epiphylla sp. n.) aus Zare (Zentral-Afrika) wird beschrieben. Die Systematischen Beziehungen der neuen Art zu den anderen Pleurotrema-Arten und die Stellung der Gattung Pleurotrema innerhalb der Familie Paratheliaceae wird kurz diskutiert. 
4180991|Based on the study of herbarium material, a critical taxonomic account has been provided on Cardamine sect. Macrophyllum (Cruciferae) from the Asian territory of the Soviet Union. Different morphological characters were examined but special attention was paid to flowers, nectar glands, pollen grains, fruits and seeds, followed by the anatomical studies of fruits and seeds. 8 species have been recognized which are arranged in 2 subsections under Cardamine sect. Macrophyllum viz. 1. Macrophyllae (C. leucantha, C. tomentella, C. macrophylla and C. densiflora) and 2. Prorepentae (C. schinziana, C. yezoensis, C. amareaformis and C. prorepens). Phylogenetic trend also has been traced out suggesting preliminary centres of divergency and polymorphism of the treated taxa.
4179681| Die Ergebnisse der pollenanalytischen und grossrestanalytischen Bearbeitung der See- und Torfablagerungen von Vracov (Sdmhren, Tschechoslowakei) ermglichten einen ersten Einblick in die Vegetationsentwicklung der unmittelbaren und weiteren Umgebung des ehemaligen Sees von Vracov. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit ist der sich im Pollendiagramm widerspiegelden Beeinflussung von Vegetation und Landschaft durch menschliche Ttigkeit gewidmet worden. Ferner wird die Problematik der Ursprnglichkeit und Kontinuitt der sdmhrischen xerothermen Steppenvegetation und die damit verbundene Frage nach dem Entstehen und der Entwicklung der Tschernosembden im Untersuchungsgebiet diskutiert. /// The present paper submits the first results of palaeoecological investigations carried out in the area of a former lake on the outskirts of the town of Vracov (SE Moravia - Czechoslovakia). The locality is situated by the border of the extensive subarid Pannonian Lowlands, thus having great importance for study of the vegetation history of this area. The present paper is chiefly based on pollen and macroscopic analyses of the profile DU-1-B. Although the results and conclusions offered by this paper cannot be definitive (research being still in progress) some fundamental information on several problems has already been obtained. This information concerns: (1) the development of the lake proper and the changing of its vegetation during the Late Weichselian and Flandrian; (2) the development of the neighbouring forests and of dry-land vegetation in the same period; (3) the extent and type of agriculture and of human activity in the area; (4) the steppe problem associated with the problem of the origin and evolution of the chernozem soils. 1. The origin of the former lake of Vracov is supposed to go back to the beginning of the Late-Weichselian Period. As late as the end of the Pre-boreal Period the lake was open and algengyttja was deposited on its bottom. During the Boreal and Atlantic Periods, the edges of the lake were gradually covered by Carex and Phragmites stands. In spite of some short regressions to the Carex-Phragmites stands, between the end of the Sub-boreal Period and the beginning of this century the lake was filled in by brown-moss communities. About fifty years ago the fen was drained. According to the type of sedimentation and vegetation succession, the whole period of the existence of the lake can be divided into eight phases (see p. 290, 291). 2. The pollen diagram traces the development of dry-land vegetation since the Allerd or from the end of the older Dryas. As early as in the Allerd Period an uninterrupted forest cover in the area consisting of Betula and Pinus is supposed to have existed. In the Pre-boreal Period, Quercus and Ulmus also appeared in addition to the dominants Betula and Pinus. Corylus was widespread and, in the Boreal, it reached its maximum. In the Boreal and Atlantic Periods the common type of mixed oak forests become predominant in the lowlands. Fagus and Abies and, partly, Carpinus appeared in the foothills of the Chiby Mountains. Fagus appears continuously from the Boreal, Abies from the beginning of the Pre-boreal; however, these trees attained their maximum development as late as the older Sub-atlantic Period. The final formation of the climax forests as known from today can also be dated to that time. 3. The first traces of human settlement and agriculture go back (according to the pollen diagram) to the end of the Atlantic Period. Since that time, as also shown by archeological and historical data, the region round Vracov has been continuously settled. According to the type and extent of agricultural activity revealed by pollen diagram, five stages can be distinguished: a) Neolithic and Aeneolithic Man seems to be a pastoralist using the forest for grazing his cattle, while the cereal production was limited to small patches of land round human settlements and exerted no great influence on the extent of forest cover. b) Bronze Age Man in the Sub-boreal Period began to reduce the total forest area. The extensive cereal cultivation became predominant over grazing activity. The fallows were probably used as pasture land in this period. c) In the Iron Age, Roman Period and during the Great Migration Period (the Older Subatlantic) the area of cultivated soil was substantially enlarged. The most accessible and most productive soils were apparently deforested in that period. The extensive cultivation of cereals still predominated, but new cultivated plants seem to be introduced in that time (Cannabis, Vitis vinifera, Juglans). d) In the Middle Ages (the older part of the Younger Subatlantic Period) the human settlements spread and even less accessible and less productive soils were deforested in the area of the Chiby foothills, originally covered by Quercus-Carpinus and Fagus-Abies forests. The still extensive cultivation of cereals, together with fallows used for grazing spread to new large regions. e) The decline of agriculture towards the end of the Middle Ages was succeeded by a stage of great agricultural expansion, in which the land was much more intensely cultivated than before. Consequently, the remaining forest stands were used as pasture lands. The pollen diagram reveals the introduction of Fagopyrum and systematic cultivation of Cannabis. 4. The uninterrupted forest cover of the area lasted from the Allerd to the very end of the Atlantic Period. This is the reason why the existence of open steppe vegetation producing chernozem soils on loess during the Boreal or Atlantic Periods (as suggested by existing hypotheses) can be ruled out. A detailed discussion is devoted to the history of steppe vegetation during the Flandrian and to the problem of the origin and evolution of the chernozem soils. New discoveries seem to suggest that the chernozem soils could originate or remain in existence also under certain forest vegetation in suitable climatic and vegetational conditions of Central Europe. 
4181443| The presence of various flavonoids, naphthodianthrones and phloroglucinol derivatives was studied in the natural pentaploid hybrid H. maculatum Crantz subsp. maculatum  H. perforatum L. The hybrid taxon was shown to have secondary metabolites in common with both putative parents thus confirming its parentage. Morphological and nomenclatural questions are briefly discussed. 
4180657|On the north shore of Lake Balaton four study areas were selected with different levels of mineral nutrient supply (two of them are at sewage inflows, one is at the mouth of a natural watercourse, and one is unaffected by water inflow). Studies were made on the development of Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steudel stands. Monthly levels of N, P, K, Na, Ca and Mg in the organs (leaf-blade, leaf-sheath, culm, aquatic root, rhizome and root) of reed were determined from April to October in 1980. Differences were detected between the four study areas in the shoot height, mass, growth rate and element contents. In the aboveground organs, the levels of N, P, and K showed a decrease all through the growing season, but Ca and Mg rose to a peak before declining for the rest of the season. In the underground organs the levels of N and P decreased to a minimum in June to July and thereafter the quantities of these elements gradually increased. In the most heavily contaminated area (area IV), significantly higher levels of tissue N, P and K were found.
4179508| Die asiatische Art Virga strigosa hat sich in der letzten Zeit an den Schuttpltzen, Bachufern und in den Gebschen in einigen Gebieten von Bhmen (besonders bei Praha, Jlov, Hradec Krlov und Opono) eingebrgert. In dieser Mitteilung werden die Studienergebnisse ber die Verbreitungsbiologie und Keimung der Virga-Frchte angefrt. Sie berichtet auch ber das Vorkommen und die Verbreitung dieser Art bei der Stadt Jlov bei Praha in den letzten 6 Jahren und gibt die Unterschiede zwischen der fremden Art Virga strigosa und der einheimischen Art Virga pilosa an (Synonymik siehe bei Holub 1964). 
4179631| Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae stellt auf dem Gebiet der Tschechoslowakei eine sowohl floristisch als auch kologisch zeimlich gut ausgeprgte Assoziation dar. Es trgt den Kennzeichnenden Charakter der Kontaktgesellschaften mit Bindung an nasse bis wechselfeuchtige Bden, deren Sorptionskomplex mit Ionen zweiwertiger Basen gesttigt ist. Es sind zwei Subassoziationen angefhrt: Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae typicum und Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae caricetosum. An analogen Standorten mit saureren Bden und nicht vllig gesttigtem Sorptionskomplex entwickelt sich die Assoziation Epilobio-Juncetum (effusi). /// Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae which has been investigated in various parts of Czechoslovakia represents a rather uniform community with comparatively true characteristic species - Juncus inflexus, Mentha longifolia, and in the investigated areas also Hypericum tetrapterum. The specific composition in general is also characteristic - first of all there is the constant share of species bound more strictly to the alliance Agropyro-Rumicion crispi as well as of species equipped with a wider cenotic amplitude, the optimum of which is situated within the units of the class Plantaginetea maioris. The species group from other cenological units is numerous, indeed, but these species are mostly not very constant. Within the association there are two subassociations to be distinguished: Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae typicum (without any differential species) which is bound to lower sites, and Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae caricetosum stellulatae with a number of differential species; it is differentiated from the ecological standpoint, too. The last-mentioned subassociation simultaneously represents an ecological mountain race. Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae is a community on the contact of relatively moist and dry habitats; usually it surrounds spring areas on slopes, or depressions of riverain sites which are flooded for short periods only. Beside the moist or temporarily waterlogged soil (soil types gley or anmoor), another important condition for the rise of the association is high base-saturation of the soil sorption complex; this circumstance evidently contributes to higher nitrate production in the soil. Epilobio-Juncetum (effusi) arises on habitats of analogous character, but with more acid soil, in which the sorption complex is not so saturated with bases and the Al
4179738|The division of Cuscuta s.l. into 4 genera, based mainly on floral morphology, is corroborated by their embryology. Several new combinations in Monogynella and Grammica are proposed.
4180987|Attempts have been made to reveal the survival strategies of the two forms of Trianthema portulacastrum. These morphs, viz rubra and flava, do not show any remarkable difference in their morphology, phenology and water relations. Metabolically, rubra form is more hardy than flava form, because of lesser water loss, higher water retention capacity, high protein content and higher levels of proline accumulation at different stages of plant growth. Seed germination studies revealed the presence of hard seed coatedness in both merphs, being more in the flava form.
4180558| A description of some woodless plant communities occurring in the central part of the Isla de la Juventud is presented. Most of the communities originated from Pinus forests. The substrate is formed by oligotrophic white sand. According to the plant composition and the corresponding water regime, three classes were established in the area under study: the Hydrolaeetea nigricaulis Baltov-Tulkov 1985; the Parvirhynschosporo-Eriocauletea Borhidi in Baltov-Tulkov et Capote 1985 and the Curatello-Byrsonimetea Borhidi ex Baltov-Tulkov et Surli 1983. The communities of the first class, poor in species, are bound to periodically inundated depressions. The second class, the Parvirhynchosporo-Eriocauletea, includes communities occurring in area with inundations shallower than those in the first class. The third class, the Curatello-Byrsonimetea, includes savanna communities of periodically dry sites. 
4180371| Excerpted iconographies (printed or manuscripts) from the beginnings of investigation of Czech flora (1786-1835) contain pictures of many plants described by the early Bohemian botanists, starting with F. W. Schmidt and ending with the Presl brothers. Illustrations belonging to the protologue are of high taxonomical value. Some of the iconographies were discovered only recently by the author. Many were not exploited since no lists of depicted plants existed. These were reasons why the present index was compiled. /// Dieses Verzeichnis der Gefsspflanzen-Abbildungen aus der ltesten bhmischen Ikonographien dient vor allem als taxonomisches Hilfsbuch zum Auffinden derjenigen Abbildungen, die zum Protolog-Material der von bhmischen Botanikern beschriebenen Arten gehren oder ihre taxonomische Auffassung der Arten erklren. Fr den ersten Teil des Verzeichnisses wurden nur Ikonographien exzerpiert; einige waren bisher ganz unbekannt, manche andere wurden nicht benutzt, weil deren Inhalt unbekannt geblieben ist. Bemerkungen zu einzelnen Ikonographien sind chronologisch geordnet. Die Bibliotheken, wo die scltensten Ikonographien mit beigefgten Signaturen aufbewahrt werden, sind im bibliographishen Verzeichnis der Ikonographien angefhrt. Der zweite Teil des Verzeichnisses wird die in zerstreuten Zeitschriftenartikeln verffentlichten Pflanzenabbildungen aus demselben Zeitabschnitt einschliessen. 
4181393|Variance deficit in the number of species per sampling unit, as compared to a null model with species occurring independently of each other has been considered by various authors to be evidence for niche limitation. I show that simpler mechanisms could explain this phenomenon. Of those, the competition of individuals for space limits the number of individuals per sampling unit, resulting in decrease of variance in species richness. Testing the proportions of species belonging to various guilds seems to be more ecologically interesting, although here also the variance deficit can hardly be taken as reliable evidence for niche limitation.
4181164|The paper summarizes data concerning the biology and ecology of Oenanthe aquatica. The species is commonly distributed all over Czechoslovakia, from lowlands to the submontane belt, especially in fishpond and river basins. O. aquatica shows no special relationship to the chemical and physical soil properties, and is well adapted to habitats with a changing water level. The reproduction of O. aquatica depends on emerging of the bottom. The most developed populations are formed by biennial plants and arise in the year following summer or autumn drainage.
4180292| Die vorliegende Darstellung knpft thematisch und inhaltlich an die Schilderung der Gesellschaften des Onopordion acanthii-Verbandes im nrdlichen Teil der Donau-Tiefebene (Mucina 1981) an. Sie enthlt die Bearbeitung subthermophiler Gesellschaften des Dauco-Melilotion-Verbandes auf ruderalen Standorten, wie: Melilotetum albae-officinalis, Berterotum incanae, Dauco-Picridetum, Dauco-Crepidetum rhoeadifoliae und der Erigeron annuus-Gesellschaft. Als neu wurden folgende Syntaxa beschrieben: Berterotum incanae typicum typische Variante und die Variante mit Salvia nemorosa, Dauco-Picridetum typicum typische Variante und die Variante mit Atriplex acuminata und Dauco-Picridetum crepidetosum biennidis. Die untersuchte Gesellschaften-Gruppe entspricht standrtlich der Gruppe der gleichfalls in den Rahmen des Dauco-Melilotion-Verbandes eingeordneten Gesellschaften-Gruppe natrlicher Standorte. /// The phytosociological treatment of the alliance Dauco-Melilotion Grs 1966 on ruderal and semiruderal sites as well in the northwestern part of Podunajsk Lowlands follows that one of the alliance Onopordion acanthii Br-bl. 1926. (cf. Mucina 1981). General characteristics (synmorphological, syntaxonomical, synecologicall, syndynamical and synchorological) of the associations Melilotetum albae-officinalis, Berterotum incanae, Dauco-Picridetum, Dauco-Crepidetum rhoeadifoliae and the Erigeron annuus-community are presented. The most of vegetation types treated here in the rang of subassociation and variant as well are described as a new ones. This is the case of Dauco-Picridetum typicum (incl. both variants - typical and var. with Atriplex acuminata), Dauco-Picridetum crepidetosum biennidis, Berterotum incanae var. typical, and var. with Salvia nemorosa. Soil analyses are added (Melilotetum albae-officinalis, Berterotum incanae, and Dauco-Picridetum). 
4180688|Seed survival of Avena fatua L. var. fatua at various depths (0 to 50 cm) in a degraded chernozem was studied over a period of eight years. Statistical evaluation showed that seeds survived significantly during the first two years at depths of 0 to 20 cm, while at depths of 30 to 50 cm seeds statistically survived in the course of four years. After six years significant withering was observed within the whole soil profile, though 1% of seeds remained viable even until the eighth year. A tendency for prolonged survival of small seeds, and partly of medium ones, was observed in deeper soil layers in the sixth and seventh year.
4181224| Chromosome numbers are reported for 19 collections representing 16 Asiatic Potentilla taxa. The first chromosome records are reported for P. desertorum Bunge var. arnavatensis Wolf (2n = 28), P. festiva Sojk (2n = 28), P. griffithii Hook f. subsp. beauvaisii (Cardot) Sojk (2n = 42), P. micropetala D. Don subsp. byssitecta (Sojk) Msek et Sojk (2n = 14), P. mollissima Lehm. (2n = 28), P. moorcroftii Wall. ex Lehm. (2n = 42), P. multicaulis Bunge (2n = 14), P. [x] omissa Sojk (2n = 35, 56, 70) and P. stanjukoviczii Ovcz. ex Koczk. (2n = 14). Counts differing from those previously recorded are given for P. algida Sojk (2n = 56) and P. flagellaris Willd. ex Schlecht. (2n = 42). Chromosome numbers of the following species were confirmed: P. [x] agrimonioides Bieb. (2n = 42), P. chinensis Ser. in DC. (2n = 14), P. fragarioides L. (2n = 14), P. lineata Trev. (2n = 14) and P. sericea L. (2n = 28). Taxonomy is briefly discussed. A new combination P. micropetala D. Don subsp. byssitecta (Sojk) Msek et Sojk stat. nov. is proposed. 
4179577|The first part of a study on the phytogeography and phytosociology of Rhynchospora alba (L.) Vahl in Czechoslovakia presents the data on the distribution of the plant. Data from literature and from herbaria are subjected to critical evaluation, and a list of localities and distribution maps are appended.
4180411| This part of the study, referring to the previous syntaxonomic part (Kov 1981), presents the results of a synecological examination of nine grassland communities of the Labe river basin covering roughly the following gradient of the alluvial hydrosere: the Cerastio arvensi-Festucetum trachyphyllae trifolietosum pratensis, the Arrhenatheretum elatioris typicum, the Alopecuretum pratensis, the Stellario-Deschampsietum caespitosae phalaridetosum, the Serratulo-Festucetum commutatae, the Molinietum coeruleae brometosum, the Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei, the Caricetum gracilis typicum, the Caricetum buekii. The long-term study of ground-water level fluctuations showed their close connection to other characteristics of the meadow soils (soil type, moisture content, granulometric composition, capillary water-holding capacity, porosity, acidity, mineral nutrient contents, microbial activity, soil temperature) as well as to the development and distribution of the grassland communities associated with ecosystems of river alluvia. The formation and dynamics of the vegetation in the large river floodplain (at present exposed to the impact of far-reaching hydrological alteration) are explained as a consequence of changes in the natural ecocycles supporting the long-term stable character of the large river basin within the landscape. 
4181485|The vegetation of road verges in the coastal dune area of the Netherlands was surveyed phytosociologically. Nine plant communities have been distinguished. They belong to the Ammophiletea, Koelerio-Corynephoretea, Molinio-Arrhenatheretea, Plantaginetea majoris and Artemisietea vulgaris. Most plant communities appear to be fragmentarily developed and have thus been described by the so-called deductive method. Vegetation in road verges often appears to be heterogeneous. Species composition is influenced by man, distance from the sea, fertility and moisture content of the soil. It is clearly correlated with total nitrogen, magnesium and organic matter. Therophytes are preponderant; these and sclerophytes indicate the dry environment. The majority of the species are apophytes.
4180638|The percentage of diploids and polyploids in plant communities of WSW Iceland is discussed in connection with environmental conditions, life forms and species diversity. No correlation was found between the age of species and their ploidy. Three basic landscape units are defined.
4180758|The meadow vegetation of the Desna river flood plain described by the authors is of great scientific significance as far as the protection of diversified syntaxa of inundation meadows is concerned. These syntaxa are different in their floristic composition. The largest inundation meadows of the Ukraine are best preserved in the flood plain of the Desna river where the authors have identified and described 18 associations of meadow vegetation attributed to 6 alliances, 2 orders and 2 classes of vegetation. They represent an ecological series ranging from steppe meadow to boggy meadows. The units thus specified are characterized by phytocenologic tables; the specificity and biological productivity of each association concerned being registered. The peculiar character of inundation meadows requires further more profound ecological and phytocenological studies of meadow communities which the authors propose for the future.
4180586| Several taxa considered by previous authors as intraspecific of Potentilla taurica s.l. are considered as separate species. A diploid chromosome number 2n = 14 and the characteristic chromosomes of karyotypes of 3 Balkan endemics P. niii Adam., P. emilipopii Nyardy and P. pirotensis (Borb.) Mark. are recorded. P. bornmuelleri Borb., P. mollicrinis (Borb.) Stankov and P. astracanica Jacq. are widespread in South-eastern Europe. Of this group P. mollicrinis is a diploid (2n = 14), P. bornmuelleri is tetraploid and in P. astracanica a polyploid serie of 2x = 14, 4x = 28, 5  = 35 and 6x = 42 has been found. The karyotypes of all species are characterized by submetacentric chromosomes. 
4180884|The book K. Richter, Plantae europeae, Vol. 1, 1890, is analyzed from the viewpoint of nomenclature of subspecies names. 264 subspecies names interesting from the standpoint of contemporary taxonomy and nomenclature are selected from the total number of 840 subspecies names for a commented list. Seventeen important cases are dealt with separately in greater detail. Eleven new nomenclatural combinations (two for species, nine for subspecies) are proposed in the Appendix. Types for two generic names (Acorellus Palla and Juncellus C. B. Clarke) are proposed. A new term "parabasionym" is applied for names establishing the priority of infraspecific epithets in the rank in question. The need to respect the newly accepted principle of priority of autonymic subspecies names at proposing new nomenclatural combinations is stressed. Examples of Richter's subspecies names having priority, subspecies names with necessary changes in their authorship and names having a possible importance as parabasionyms are enumerated in seperate lists.
4179751|A generic description is given of the genus Menispora Pers. and four Czechoslovak species assigned to this genus are described and illustrated: Menispora caesia Preuss, M. ciliata Corda, M. glauca Pers. and M. tortuosa Corda. The perfect state of M. glauca Pers. was collected for the first time and is described as a new species Chaetosphaeria glauca Hol.-Jech. Chaetosphaeria pulviscula (Curr.) Booth, the perfect state of M. caesia Preuss was also collected only once and is here described again. A key is provided for the Czechoslovak species of Menispora Pers.
4181415|Plant hormones play a key role as mediators between environmental signals and adaptive plant responses. Auxin, ethylene and gibberellins are involved in the initiation of adaptive plant responses such as the development of adventitious roots and stimulated shoot elongation upon flooded conditions. These adaptive plastic responses in plants are frequently linked to changes in the concentrations of the hormones involved, but only rarely to shifts in sensitivity. Examples from ecophysiological research performed with species from the genus Rumex demonstrate the importance of the hormone sensitivity concept in plant adaptations to flooding: (a) Rumex species can be grouped into three response categories according to the ethylene sensitivity of the youngest petioles: positive, negative and indifferent; (b) Sub-ambient oxygen concentrations sensitize petioles of wetland Rumex species to ethylene; (c) Enhanced ethylene levels sensitize petioles of wetland Rumex species to gibberellin; (d) Auxin is the primary plant hormone responsible for the initiation of adventitious roots in wetland Rumex species. However, a factor related to waterlogging, possibly ethylene, is required to sensitize the root-shoot junction to endogenous auxin.
4179492| Fnf neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen fr die Arten der Gattung Comastoma sowie vier fr die Arten der Gattung Gentianella werden vorgeschlagen. 
4181261|The current approaches to the study of clonal plants are reviewed. Most studies concentrate at the level of the ramet and clonal fragment exploring the "microscopic" view of clonal plants, dealing with the translocation of resources, clonal integration, plasticity of growth etc. The information gained by this approach can be used in the understanding of higher levels of organization within the clonal system either with the help of spatially explicit modelling techniques, or by using means and distributions of size within a population instead of studying individual ramets separately. Plant scientists use the term clone with two meanings, viz. (a) a set of physiologically connected, but potentially independent ramets, and (b) a set of genetically identical, but potentially physically separated individuals. The overlap of these terms differs between individual plant species, depending on the extent of physical separation of the ramets and the degree of physiological integration between the ramets; the lower the frequency of ramet separation, the closer are the physiological and genetic concepts of the clone. Three critical areas seem to be neglected in clonal plant research: (a) the interrelationship between hierarchical levels in clonal plants, (b) the particular spatial structure of their environment, and (c) the importance of clonal plants in different ecological communities.
4179504| The productivity of three plant communities differing in moisture conditions was studied in the river basin of the Dyje near the village of Lanhot (Southern Moravia). The communities were as follows: Serratuleto-Festucetum commutatae Baltov-Tulkov 1963, Gratiola officinalis-Carex praecox-suzae subass. Galium boreale Baltov-Tulkov 1963, and Gratiola officinalis-Carex praecox-suzae subass. Rorippa silvestris Baltov-Tulkov 1963. The association Gratiola officinalis-Carex praecox-suzae subass. Galium boreale appeared as the most productive one, its biomass maximum
4179480|In 15 basic articles the author summarises draft nomenclatural principles in floristic phytosociology (the Braun-Blanquet school). The draft is to be considered as an attempt to introduce into plant sociology such rules as respect the object and method of establishing sociological units, based on typisation. The conception of a unit, given by the diagnosis, is considered to be the most important criterion for the choice of a correct name.
4179460| Die nordamerikanische Art Echinocystis lobata hat sich an den Ufern einiger europischer Flsse, insbesondere im pannonischen Gebiet, eingebrgert. Die Verbreitung in der Tschechoslowakei wird eingehend behandelt, insbesondere wo diese Art in einigen Flusssystemen Sdmhrens und der Sd- und Sdostslowakei eingebrgert ist. Ihre geographische und kologische Charakteristik in Nordamerika sowie in Europa wird klargelegt. Weiter wurde ihre phytoznologische Zugehrigkeit untersucht und die Aufmerksamkeit der Art und Weise der Verbreitung, vor allem der Hydrochorie, zugewandt. Echinocystis lobata ist eine wichtige Reservoirpflanze einer gefhrlichen Viruskrankheit Cucumis virus 1 (Doolittle) Smith. /// 1. At the beginning of this century the North American species Echinocystis lobata, began to escape from cultures in Europe. It soon established in natural communities of river banks as an expansive hemerophytic neophyte. It expanded its area, which is markedly bound to the streams. Its main area lies in the Pannonian district. 2. Echinocystis lobata is, according to Stocking, a monotypic genus, closely allied to Echinopepon Naud. and Marah Kellog. Its intraspecific variability shows normal amplitude of variation. 3. The original spontaneous area of distribution in N. America and its ecology is thoroughly discussed. 4. The first record of escape from culture is from Rumania in 1904. Later on it was found in several countries (cf. Fig. 2). 5. Echinocystis lobata occupies two different habitats in Europe: a) river banks and brook sides-this habitat corresponds to its natural environment, b) ruderal places. While in the first habitat it is now practically naturalised in our country, in the second it does not grow for longer periods. 6. Its secondary area in Europe is analogous to its original area in N. America. It corresponds to regions with precipitation of 550 mm and over and an average temperature of 17-25 C in June and below 0 C in January. 7. Its present distribution in Czechoslovakia may be seen from the map; it corresponds roughly to the Pannonian district. The list of localities is attached. 8. It belongs to the nitrophilous "vail communities" of the alliance Senecion fluviatilis R. Tx. (1947) 1950, especially to the ass. Cuscuto-Calystegietum sepii R. Tx. 1947 em. So 1961 subass. echinocystidetosum (So 1960) Krpti 1962. 9. The carpobiological problems of this species are thoroughly discussed. Its distribution in Europe had 3 stages. In the first it was cultivated and the seeds were obtained by means of blastochory or hydrochory on the riversides in the second one. The third stage is characterised by its distribution along streams by means of blastochory, bythisohydrochory and nautohydrochory; its further distribution was due to high water in spring or autumn. Its distribution upstream is due partly to blastochory, partly to man's intentional or unintentional activity. Its ability to spread by hydrochory has been experimentally investigated (cf. Tab. 2). 10. Seeds undergo a primary dormancy (embryodormancy); they need at least 2 weeks of low temperature in wet environment. Germination is raised by scarification of the testa of stratified seeds; in the laboratory seeds germinated only in variable and not in constant temperature. 
4180006|Karyotypes of twelve species from twenty-four localities in southern Moravia and one locality in Slovakia were investigated. Their counts or karyotypic formulae are as follows: Chenopodium foliosum (Moench) Ascherson: K (2n) = 18 =
4179800| Der Artname Matricaria chamomilla L. 1753 kann nicht auf die Echte Kamille angewendet werden, da er mit der Geruchlosen Kamille zu typisieren ist. Da M. chamomilla die Typusart der Gattung Matricaria L. ist, verbleibt dieser Gattungsname bei der Aufteilung der Gattung bei der Teilgattung mit der Geruchlosen Kamille; der Name Tripleurospermum Schultz-bip. ist illegitim. Der korrekte Name fr die Gattung mit der Echten Kamille lautet Chamomilla S. F. Gray. Die Echte Kamille heisst Chamomilla recutita (L.) Rauschert comb. nov., die Strahlenlose Kamille Chamomilla suaveolens (Pursh) Rydb. Die Inlandsippe der Geruchlosen Kamille muss, falls man sie im Artrang von der Strandsippe M. maritima L. abtrennt, M. perforata Mrat heissen, da der bekannte Name M. inodora L. 1755 als berflssige Umbenennung von M. chamomilla L. 1753 illegitim ist. Die korrekten Namen der Chamomilla-Arten und ihre Synonymie werden in einer Liste aufgefhrt. Diese Liste enthlt auch fr die Gattung Matricaria s. str. 20 Neukombinationen und 3 nomina nova. /// The nomenclatural type of the name Matricaria chamomilla L. 1753 is the Scentless Mayweed, not the Wild Camomile. The traditional application of this name in the latter meaning, which is found for the first time in Linnaeus' Flora suecica ed. 2 (1755), is not correct, because Linnaeus 1755 excluded the original type of the name M. chamomilla L. 1753, and therefore he is considered to have published a nomen novum for a new taxon, which must be cited correctly as "M. chamomilla L. 1755 non. L. 1753" and not as "M. chamomilla L. 1753 emend. L. 1755". This nomen novum, however, is a later homonym and cannot be used for the Wild Camomile. The older homonym M. chamomilla L. 1753 must be rejected for the Scentless Mayweed as a nomen ambiguum. If Matricaria L. is divided into two genera, the generic name Matricaria must be retained for the partial genus including the Scentless Mayweed, because the type-species of the genus Matricaria L., M. chamomilla L. 1753, is the Scentless Mayweed. The name Tripleurospermum Schultz-Bip., nowadays in general use for this genus, is illegitimate, because the name of its type-species is based on the same type "Fl. suec. 702" as the name of the type-species of Matricaria. The other partial genus, including the Wild Camomile, must be named Chamomilla S. F. Gray. The legitimacy of this generic name is discussed. The present author refers to the possibility of designating the species M. recutita (the Wild Camomile) a typus conservandus for the genus Matricaria; for in this event the names Matricaria s. str. and Tripleurospermum could be retained in the traditional meaning. After a detailed statement of the cases both for and against the conservation, however, the designation of a typus conservandus is not recommended. Therefore the correct names are Chamomilla recutita (L.) Rauschert comb. nov. for the Wild Camomile, and Chamomilla suaveolens (Pursh) Rydb. for the Pineapple Weed (Rayless Mayweed). If the genus Chamomilla is united with Matricaria, the latter species must be named Matricaria discoidea DC. and not M. matricarioides (Lessing) Porter. The ruderal and segetal inland taxon of the Scentless Mayweed, if considered distinct in rank of species from the littoral taxon M. maritima L. 1753, must be named Matricaria perforata Mrat, since the known name M. inodora L. is illegitimate, being a nomen novum (avowed substitute) for M. chamomilla L. 1753. Correct names for the species of the genus Chamomilla with synonymy, and 20 new combinations and 3 nomina nova in the genus Matricaria s. str. are listed. 
4180281| Plant species diversity and dominance patterns were studied in a tropical grassland comunity at Berhampur, India during 1977-1978. Diversity (- pi lnpi) and dominance
4179432| In vorliegender Arbeit sind die kologischen Hauptunterschiede zwischen den Rhrichtgesellschaften fliessender und stehender Gewsser definiert. Demzufolge beweist der Verfasser die Trennung und selbstndige Einreihung der Rhrichtgesellschaften fliessender Gewsser (die Verbnde Phalaridion arundinaceae Kopeck 1961 und Glycerio-Sparganion Br.-Bl. et Siss. apud Boer 1942) und stehender Gewsser (Verband Phragmition communis W. Koch 1926) im phytoznologischen System. /// This paper analyses the main ecological differences between the habitats of reed communities on running and stagnant waters. Attention is mainly drawn to the mutual comparison of the habitats of river reed communities of the alliance Phalaridion arundinaceae Kopeck 1961 with reed communities on stagnant waters of the Phragmition communis W. Koch 1926 alliance. The main ecological differences between plant communities of reeds on running and stagnant waters are given in the following survey: 1. The river reeds ecotope-group of the Phalaridion arundinaceae Kopeck 1961 and Glycerio-Sparganion Br.-Bl. et Siss. apud Boer 1942, regardless of whether the stands colonize banks of water courses or basins, are characterized by the following main distinctive marks: a) by the development of reed communities in the ripal, or sometimes littoral bank zone; b) by the quantitative prevalence or balance of the ecological influence of the terrestrial ecophase compared with the total influence of the hydrophase, littoral and limosic ecophase during the ecostage; c) by sudden changes and sharp transitions of ecophases during the ecostage; d) by an ecologically decisive, periodical influence of the water current, or other type of water drift during the period of raised water levels; e) both components of the erosion-accumulation process take part in forming the edatop. The accumulation becomes wholly specific in its quantity and quality, which may be expressed as "piling-up". f) by the specific grain-size composition of soil substratum, usually with predominating minerogenic, stratified relatively coarse-grained stratum sediments; g) by a relatively good gas exchange between the soil and the atmosphere during the vegetation period and by a relatively high oxygen content in the flowing water. 2. The ecotope group of reed communities of stagnant water belonging to the Phragmition communis W. Koch 1926, regardless of whether the stands colonise the banks of water courses or basins isolated on banks, can be characterised by the following main marks: a) by an optimal development of reed stands in the sublittoral, or subripal zone of the bank area; b) by a quantitative prevalence of the hydrophase together with the littoral and limosic ecophases during the ecostage in comparison with the terrestrial ecophase (with exception of the terrestrial stages of phytocoenoses); c) by gradual transitions of ecophases. A relatively sudden change of ecophases arises more rarely (e.g. in cultivated fishponds); d) by missing the influence of a stronger water current or another kind of water drift; e) during the erosion-accumulation process the accumulation predominates and bears the character of a filling-in process; f) mostly the finest categories prevail in the grain-size composition of the soil. An increased humus content is typical; g) the gas exchange between the soil and the atmosphere during the vegetation period is remarkably limited (with the exception of the terrestrial stages of phytocoenoses). Accordingly reduction processes predominate here. 
4179592| In the present paper the results of a biosystematic study of some critical species of Lactuca sect. Lactucopsis are given. After a morphological, chorological, partly cytotaxonomical, chemotaxonomical analysis and experimental crossings the author came to the conclusion that both L. wilhelmsiana Fisch. et Mey ex. DC. and L. chaixii Vill. should be treated as infraspecific taxa of L. quercina L. No differences were found between L. quercina and L. chaixii except in the basic shape of the cauline leaves. L. wilhelmsiana, however, can be distinguished by the length of the beak of the achene and by the distributional area. After revision the correct names of the taxa studied are as follows: Lactuca quercina L., L. quercina var. integrifolia Bogenh. (Bisch.) for L. chaixii, L. quercina subsp. wilhelmsiana (Fisch. et Mey. ex DC.) Ferkov for L. wilhelmsiana. 
4179718|In two investigated ecotypes of Phragmites communis differences in the density and the total number of stomata in the leaves in sites with one ecotype only and in sites with both ecotypes were established. These characteristics did not differ significantly between the sites. The gradients of the density of stomata in successive leaves increased from the base to the apex of the shoot. The differences between the types are due to the high inserted leaves. The gradients were found in a leaf blade; their shape was influenced by the habitats.
4179697|The author gives a survey of fell-field, dwarf shrub- and grass heath-communities of Reykjanes Peninsula. Eight associations were found to belong to this complex; they belong to the alliances Juncion trifidi Krajina, Loiseleurio-Arctostaphylion Kalliola and Nardo-Caricion Bigelowii Nordh. respectively. Their syntaxonomy and ecology are discussed.
4180372|Scattered green was studied in Czechoslovakia by means of the air multispectral photography and of the field observation. According to various repartition and canopy 19 structural types of scattered green were derived.
4179607|In the year 1967, a study was made of the production of the following four selected plant communities arranged in an ecological series according to moisture: Serratuleto-Festucetum commutatae, Gratiola officinalis-Carex praecox-suzae subass. Galium boreale, Gratiola officinalis-Carex praecox-suzae subass. Rorippa silvestris; and Glycerietum maximae, the most humid member, partly left unmowed. Attention was paid to the rate of aerial and root production, root: shoot ratio, weight ratio of various plant groups to the dominant, vertical structure of the vegetation, and ash content. Primary dry matter production was used for determining the values of growth characteristics: relative growth rate R and productivity C.
4180563|The present study deals with African species of Syzygiella Spruce, Allisoniella Hodgs. and Gymnomitriaceae Klinggr. Three species of Syzygiella Spruce, S. geminifolia (Mitt.) Steph., S. concreta (Gott.) Spruce and one indeterminable species with orbicular leaves (known only in sterile condition) occur in Africa. Allisoniella nigra (Rodw.) Schust. represents a genus hitherto unreported for the African flora. The present knowledge of Gymnomitriaceae Klinggr. in subsaharan Africa is summarised; five species of Marsupella Dum., one of Gymnomitrion Corda and five of Herzogobryum Grolle are reported. Finally, some additions to the genera Isotachis Mitt., Anastrophyllum (Spruce) Steph. and Lophozia (Dum.) Dum. are presented.
4180864| The conditions of germination of both fresh and stratified seeds of Alyssum saxatile were investigated in the laboratory at 13 various temperature values. The temperature of 15/25 C was found to be optimum. In stratified seeds germination was accelerated, and the range of range of temperatures suitable for germination became wider. Seeds sown out after ripening sprouted in the first half of June, and by autumn they developed rather robust rosettes. 
4179483| The paper deals with some problems of distribution and variability of the species L. angustissimus L., L. halophilus Boiss. et Sprun., L. laricus Rech. fil., Aellen et Esfandiari, L. schimperi Steud., L. compactus Chrtkov-ertov, L. garcinii DC. 
4181199|The resampling of 46 phytosociological plots 39 years later is used to characterize changes in the field layer of oak and oak-hornbeam forests in the South-East of the Czech Republic, where high densities of fallow deer, red deer and mouflon are kept in game preserves. Detrended correspondence analysis is used to demonstrate the general pattern of change. Changes in particular species performance, cover of field and shrub layers, diversity, life form spectrum and performance of zoochores are described. It is suggested that with increasing grazing pressure, native forest species retreat while the performance of species preferring soils rich in nitrogen and species of ruderal habitats increases. Simultaneously, mesic species are gradually replaced by xeric ones. Possible causes of these changes are discussed.
4179624|Einige alpine, balkanische, mediterrane und kaukasische Arten der Gattung Hieracium werden in die Gattung Pilosella versetzt. Es werden 60 neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen vorgeschlagen.
4181413| The pressurised gas-flows, humidity-induced convection (HIC) and thermal transpiration (TT), which are important for aeration and for greenhouse gas emissions in some wetland macrophytes, are described and discussed. Results obtained from simple mathematical modelling of the processes are presented to illustrate some of their more relevant features. It is emphasised that both processes require the presence of a micro-porous partition having a significantly greater resistance to pressure flow than to diffusion. In particular it is shown that whilst the potential to pressurise by these processes is inversely related to the pore diameters of the partition, the maximum gas flows are generated where pore diameters range from 0.1 to 0.2 m. Where partitions are a surface feature (e.g. emergent macrophytes) a dominant role for HIC is predicted; where partitions are an embedded feature (e.g. water-lilies) it is deduced that HIC will still play a significant role, but the contribution of TT could be greater. 
4180276| In der vorgelegten Studie wurden nach der Methode der Zrich-Montpellierschen Schule 6 Gesellschaften des Onopordion acanthii-Verbandes im nordwestlichen Teil der Donau-Tiefebene bearbeitet (Onopordetum acanthii, Potentillo argenteae-Artemisietum absinthii, Cirsietum eriophori, Lappulo echinatae-Cynoglossetum, Stachyo-Carduetum acanthoidis und Salvio-Marrubietum peregrini). Synmorphologische, symphnologische, synkologische, syntaxonomische, syndynamische und synchorologische Charakteristiken der Gesellschaften wurden durch Beobachtungen von Dauerflchen und Bodenanalysen ergnzt. Neubeschriebene Syntaxa sind Potentillo-Artemisietum absinthii typicum und Salvio-Marrubietum peregrini. Die Arbeit enthlt eine kurze Charakteristik des Onopordion acanthii-Verbandes, der Ordnung Onopordetalia acanthii und der Klasse Artemisietea vulgaris im Hinblick auf das Untersuchungsgebiet. /// Using the phytosociological methods of Zrich-Montpellier School the study on (sub)-thermophilous ruderal vegetation of the northwestern part of Podunajsk Lowlands is presented. The paper is introduced by a general characteristic of the study area (approximately 890 sq. km). The short outline of the characteristics of the order Onopordetalia and the class Artemisietea vulgaris as well are added. The main attention is paid to the associations of the allinace Onopordion acanthii, namely Onopordetum acanthii, Potentillo argenteae-Artemisietum absinthii, Cirsietum eriophori, Lappulo echinatae-Cynoglossetum, Stachyo-Carduetum acanthoidis, Salvio-Marrubietum peregrini, to their synmorphological, synecological and syndynamical features above all. The synchorological characteristics are supplied by a list of authors dealing with the syntaxa under consideration. Following the Code of phytosociological nomenclature the validisation of some syntaxa has been performed. Potentillo argenteae-Artemisietum absinthii typicum and Salvio-Marrubietum peregrini are the new described syntaxa. This is the first study of the series under preparation on the Onopordetalia of the northern part of Podunajsk Lowlands. The treatment of the alliance Dauco-Melilotion will follow. 
4179644| In diesem Beitrag werden die Standortsverhltnisse der kleinkarpatischen Laubwaldgesellschaften (Carici pilosae-Carpinetum, sekundrer Primula-Eichen-Hainbuchenwald, Festuco heterophyllae-Quercetum, Stellario-Alnetum, Carici remotae-Fraxinetum, Dentario bulbiferae-Fagetum, Cephalanthero-Fagetum, Phyllitidi-Aceretum, Luzulo-Fagetum, Eu-Quercion pubescentis, Luzulo albidae-Quercetum) behandelt. Besonders wurden die Beziehungen der genannten Gesellschaften zu den physikalischen und chemischen Bodeneigenschaften und Bodentypen sowie ihre Hhenverbreitung verfolgt. Ein zusammenfassender Standortsvergleich dieser Gesellschaften mit einem Bestimmungsschlssel nach Standortsverhltnisschen ist beigefgt. /// In this paper, the ecological character of forest communities in the southern part of the Lesser Carpathians is discussed. The following communities were analysed: 1. a Carpathian oak-hornbeam forest Carici pilosae-Carpinetum with the moister Dryopteris subass., a typical subass. and the acidophilous Luzula albida subass., 2. a secondary Primula oak-hornbeam forest on calcareous soils, originating from Cephalanthero-Fagetum or Carici-Carpinetum as may be demonstrated by soil types (brown rendsina - Cephalanthero-Fagetum, rendsina-braunerde - Carici pilosae-Carpinetum), 3. an acidophilous subassociation of the mostly secondary, somewhat drier Festuco heterophyllae-Quercetum, 4. an alluvial ash-alder forest Stellario-Alnetum in lower situated valleys with the moister Chrysosplenium subass. and Allium ursinum subass. on fresh soils, 5. an alluvial forest Carici remotae-Fraxinetum on wet to swampy soils (nassgley), 6. a Carpathian herb-rich beech forest Dentario-Fagetum with the slightly oligotrophic Carex pilosa subass. and the very eutrophic Mercurialis subass., 7. a calcareous beech forest Cephalanthero-Fagetum with the moister Circaea subass., a typical subass. and the very thermophilous Carex alba subass., 8. a calcareous ravine forest Phyllitidi-Aceretum on shady slopes in submontane to montane regions, 9. an acidophilous beech forest Luzulo-Quercetum with the slightly acidophilous Luzula subass. and the more oligotrophic Deschampsia flexuosa subass., 10. xerophilous calcareous oak shrub forests of the Eu-Quercion pubescentis suballiance with the Sesleria xerophilous oak forest occurring on ridges and the more xerophilous Ceraso-Quercetum pubescentis on sunny slopes in the warmest regions, 11. an acidophilous oak forest of the lower regions, Luzulo-Quercetum, with a typical subass. and the Genista subass. The ecological relations of these communities are briefly discussed. 
4181345| Dynamics of vegetation was studied on Stora Alvaret in land, Sweden, in comparison with precipitation in the May-July part of the growing period. Three data sets representing three main life forms (shrub, dwarf-shrub, and herbs) were collected: species composition eight grassland permanent plots (1969-1993, ass. Veronica spicata-Avenula pratensis), survival and health status of Juniperus communis (1975-1993), and Calluna vulgaris cover at two permanent plots for the same period. Mortality of Juniperus and Calluna and proportion of annual species were synchronized and correlated with severe droughts. 
4180543|Heliotropium supinum L. is anamphistomatic, amphitrichomic and xeromorphic species. The stomata are anomocytic and their distribution is of potato type. The entire aerial surface of the plant is hairy. The frequency of stomata and hairs is high. The configurations of epidermal cells are straight and highly sinuous on upper and lower surfaces respectively. The stomatal frequency, absolute stomatal number and stomatal index are higher on the lower surface and significantly vary in plants from different sources. The variations in stomatal index on either surface are narrow but the ratio of stomatal indices between the two surfaces is uniform, hence it may be used for taxonomic purposes.
4179648|Natural and artificial hybrids between the tetraploid Arabis hirsuta (L.) Scop. s. str. and two diploid species A. sagittata (Bertol.) DC. or A. planisiliqua (Pers.) Reichenb. are the main subject of this paper. The investigations concern pollination behaviour, sterility, occurrence and frequency of hybrids, their morphology and cytology. Some questions concerning relations of the taxa within the complex and the significance of hybrids in the variability of natural mixed populations are discussed.
4179716| Seasonal changes in the growth rate of duckweeds - Lemna minor L. and L. gibba L. associated in the community Lemnetum gibbae (W. Koch 1954) Miyawaki et Tx. 1960 - were investigated at the Podzmeck fishpond at Prhonice near Praha, during the growing season of 1969. Initial and final dry weight values (W
4180605| A survey of the nitrophilous fringe communities of the region Marche (Central Italy) allows the individualization of five associations well characterized floristically and ecologically. These are: Urtico-Aegopodietum, Anthriscetum sylvestris, Chaerophylletum aurei, Alliario-Chaerophylletum temuli, and Anthriscetum nemorosae. The first three associations are ranged, from the phytosociological point of view, in the alliance Aegopodion podagrariae, while the last two belong to the alliance Galio-Alliarion. /// L'tude de la vgtation nitrophile de lisire des Marches (Italie Centrale) a permis l'individualisation de cinq associations bien distinctes sur les plans floristiqu et cologiqu: Urtico-Aegopodietum Tx. (1947) 1967 emend., Anthriscetum sylvestris Hada 1978, Chaerophylletum aurei Oberd. 1957, Alliario-Chaerophylletum temuli Lohm. 1949 et Anthriscetum nemorosae Hruka 1981. Du point de vue phytosociologique, les trois premires font partie de l'alliance Aegopodion podagrariae, tandis que les trois premires font partie de l'alliance Aegopodion podagrariae, tandis que les deux dernires appartiennent  l'alliance Galio-Alliarion. 
4181245| The set of 25 aquatic and shoreline species which immigrated to the new reservoir Rozko during the 21 years after its creation were analyzed with respect to their time of immigration, distance of nearest source localities, life form, seed size, and reproductive system. The reservoir consists of two parts, one with fluctuating and the other with stabilized water level. The immigrating species originated from various distances, from nearby to more than 100 km away. A distance of tens of kilometers can be overcome by many shoreline species, provided that suitable (low competition) habitats are available. The survival time was correlated with the reproductive system: species with autogamic or vegetative reproduction survived longer. Establishment was more successful under a fluctuating water level, which decreased the competitive exclusion of immigrated species by helophytes. 
4179774| The authors reconstruct the development of some waterlogged meadows in the central part of the umava foothills. The palaeoecological investigation of the meadows is based on the macroscopic analyses, completed with pollen analyses, of Late Holocene (Late Flandrian) sediments in five profiles. It is suggested that, in the course of the last 600 to 700 years, the meadows developed as a secondary plant community, replacing original alder stands, due to the activity of man in the area; they usually passed through seminatural meadow types to the present cultivated stands. In addition to detailed descriptions of local successions on various sites, the study presents some general conclusions concerning the cenotic and synecological adaptability of some plants, discusses the development of plant communities and their changes in time. 
4180416|A new species of Edmundmasonia Subram., E. villosa, is illustrated and described from decaying culms of bamboo collected in Cuba. Two others, which are Indian species, are briefly discussed.
4180354| Das Studium der Keimungskologie von Arten der Gattung Cynoglossum im Laboratorium und auf einer Versuchsparzelle hat nachgewiesen, dass bei ihren Frchten eine ausgeprgte Samenruhe entwickelt ist, die durch doppelten Hemmungsmechanismus der Testa verursacht wird. Die Testa verhindert die Keimung einerseits durch ihre Semipermiabilitt, anderseits dadurch, dass sie die Auslaugung von Inhibitoren der Keimung aus dem Embryo verhindert. Die Dormanz unter Laborbedingungen kann durch Beseitigung der Testa, teilweise auch durch deren ausgedehntere Verletzung, unterbrochen werden. Dasselbe kann auch durch eine kalte bzw. kalt-warme Stratifikation erzielt werden, die den Bedingungen am nchsten steht, bei denen die Samenruhe in der Natur unterbrochen wird. Die Auslaugung mit Wasser und die Behandlung mit GA
4179680| Das Stellario-Alnetum glutinosae aus Bhmen und Mhren wird in phytoznologischer Hinsicht behandelt. Diese Gesellschaft ist ein periodisch oder episodisch berschwemmter Erlen-Eschen-Auenwald der kollinen Stufe und der niedrigsten Lagen der submontanen Stufe. Nach der Bodenfeuchtigkeit und dem Bodenluftregime wurden die folgenden Subassoziationen unterschieden: 1. das Stellario-Alnetum crepidetosum mit langfristig versumpftem Oberboden und ungnstigem Luftregime des Bodens, 2. das S.-A. chrysosplenietosum mit nassem bis feuchtem, jedoch nicht versumpften Oberboden und relativ gnstigem Bodenluftregime, 3. das S.-A. allietosum ursini mit feuchtem bis frischem Oberboden und gnstigem Bodenluftregime und 4. das S.-A. typicum mit feuchtem bis etwas austrocknendem Oberboden und sehr gnstigem Bodenluftregime. /// This paper gives the results of phytocoenologic-ecological research of Stellario-Alnetum (Mikyka 1944) Lohmeyer 1957 in the Western part of Czechoslovakia. This community is a typical Alnion glutinoso-incanae-forest in brook valleys of the colline and lower submontane situations. Stellario-Alnetum is characterised by the dominance of alder and ash in the tree layer and by the occurrence of the (hygro)mesophilous differential species of the association, Stellaria nemorum, S. holostea, Pulmonaria*obscura and Lamium maculatum in the herb layer. This community represents, from the ecological point of view, a periodically or episodically flooded alluvial forest on gley soils (typical Gley, Braunerde-Gley). According to the soil moisture and air regime 4 subassociations can be distinguished: 1. Stellario-Alnetum crepidetosum paludosae with often wet to swampy soils, high groundwater table (typical Gley) and unfavourable air regime of the soils, 2. S.-A. chrysosplenietosum on moister to wet, but not swampy soils with high groundwater table (typical Gley) and well aerated soils, 3. S.-A. allietosum ursini with fresh soils in the dry period with a high or low groundwater table (typical Gley, Braunerde-Gley) and the well aerated soils, 4. the relatively dry S.-A. typicum with mostly low groundwater table (Braunerde-Gley) and very well aerated soils. The relations of Stellario-Alnetum to the allied Central-European alluvial communities as well as the geographical distribution of this association in Central Europe are briefly discussed. 
4179649| A program for polythetic numerical evaluation of phytosociological material is described. Using Srensen's coefficient of floristic similarity it computes the homogeneity of subjectively chosen sets of relevs, the affinity of each constituent relev to the set as well as the similarity between any pair of sets. It is also able to plot a dendrogram of the hierarchic system obtained by agglomerating individual relevs into complex groupings. The program is suitable for processing phytosociological data arranged in any conventional table. 
4179428| Weitere Ergebnisse einer monographischen Revision der Flechtenfamilie Gyalectaceae (im Sinne von Zahlbruckner 1926) werden hier vorgelegt. Sie betreffen zwei taxonomisch bisher nur wenig studierte Gattungen Ramonia Stiz. und Gloeolecta Lett. Beide werden durch eine Emendation der Diagnosen genauer abgegrenzt. Neben der Gattungscharakteristik und der Artenbeschreibungen wird noch eine bersicht der geprften Herbar-Belege beigefgt. Verwandtschaftlich stehen beide Gattungen den Thelotremataceen viel nher als den Gyalectaceen, zu welchen sie bisher eingegliedert waren. /// Further results of a monographical revision of the lichen family Gyalectaceae (sensu Zahlbruckner 1926) are presented. They concern two genera - Ramonia Stiz. and Gloeolecta Lett.; these genera have not been sufficiently studied up to now. They are more exactly defined by emendation of the diagnosis. A list of proved herbarium items is added to the genus characterization and description of the species. Both genera are more related to the family Thelotremataceae than to the family Gyalectaceae, in which they have so far been classified. 
4180932| Saxifraga marginata Sternb. is divided into three subspecies: S. m. subsp. marginata, S. m. subsp. bubakii (Rohlena) Chrtek et Sojk, S. m. subsp. karadzicensis (Degen et Koanin) Chrtek et Sojk (environments of Skopje, Macedonia). 
4179620| The homogeneity of sets of phytosociological relevs or syntaxa - the homotoneity - is tested by means of a homotoneity-coefficient. This coefficient consists of the basic homotoneity-coefficient expressing the proportion of highly constant species (61-100%) in the species composition of the average relev and the correcting factor which is proportional to the difference of species number between the richest and poorest relev. Successive analysis of heterotoneity of sets of relevs for detecting sources of heterotoneity is proposed. 
4181181| Two new hybrids in the genus Thymus, Th.  indalicus Blanca et al., nothosp. nov. [= Th. baeticus Boiss. ex Lacaita  Th. hyemalis Lange subsp. hyemalis] and Th.  enicensis Blanca et al., nothosp. nov. [= Th. hyemalis Lange subsp. hyemalis  Th. zygis Loefl. ex L. subsp. gracilis (Boiss.) R. Morales] are described. Until now no hybrids of Th. hyemalis have been described, due to its early period of flowering and because it hybridizes with closely related species, making rather difficult the detection of such hybrids. 
4181395|The effect of competition on species coexistence is usually strongly modified by other factors especially in non-equilibrium systems of sessile organisms with limited availability of propagules. As a consequence, competition-based assembly rules (even if their existence seems to be unambiguously detected) would result in incomplete understanding of the coexistence of species in plant communities. J. Bastow Wilson suggested measuring variance deficit in the number of co-occurring species as a means to detect niche limitation in a community. The method provides a relatively simple and quick "snap-shot" analysis of a community. However, it has been questioned whether niche limitation is the only factor which might account for variance deficit. The paper presents a spatially explicit simulation experiment in which artificial communities are produced by pre-defined rules for competitive interactions. Then we examine whether these rules can be detected by a proposed method for pattern analysis. Two limiting cases are simulated: (A) all the species share the same niche, and (B) all the species have different niches. The difference between these cases in the variance of species numbers is examined. Using the simulation results, some basic spatial constraints upon species assembly are emphasized. It is argued that the assumptions of Wilson's approach confine its applicability to species-saturated equilibrium communities. The study of assembly rules in dynamically changing, spatially structured communities requires the consideration of a set of coenological characteristics and the use of careful spatio-temporal scaling to detect their patterns. The use of spatially explicit individual-based models to study the mechanisms and constraints limiting species coexistence at different scales is suggested.
4180791|In the years 1985-1986, the primary succession of algae on dumps from brown coal mining was studied in the Most region (North Bohemia, Czechoslovakia). The colonization of sterile clayic substrates by algae (several coccal species of chlorophytes and heteroconts) and mosses (protonemata) starts before the first ecesis of higher plants (in deposits about 3 months old). Diatoms and, later, cyanophytes accompany the algal community after 1 year. Filamentous types of heteroconts and green algae occur first on 7 year old dumps. Green algae represent the commonest group throughout the succession. The number of species continuously increases with the age of the dumps and finally reaches about 40 species from the 18th to 30th year. The species composition is similar to that in grassland biotopes in Czechoslovakia.
4181168| Directional changes of vegetation in a wet meadow complex are described, comparing phytosociological relevs taken in 1956, 1963, 1984 and 1989, and vegetation maps made in 1956 and 1984. The relevs were located at various distances from the pond shore predominantly reflecting differences in water regime and intensity of farming. The data were elaborated using direct and indirect gradient analyses. Alterations of environmental factors (moisture, nitrogen) were expressed using Ellenberg's indicator values. Over most of the area, the former distinct vegetation mosaic has been replaced by uniform meadows due to intensive farming. The area was eutrophicated and partly drained, clearly shown in Ellenberg's indicator values, in species composition and vegetation pattern. Rapid processes of ruderalization took place. A scheme of successional pathways which finally emerged can be applied to analogous wet meadows in comparable geographical regions and used as a tool for prognoses of successional processes in meadows under human impact. The paper demonstrates ways to exploit earlier phytosociological records. 
4179647| In der verbreitungsbiologischen Terminologie gibt es viele Synonyme und berflssige Ausdrcke, was speciell fr die Systematik der Verbreitungstypen gilt. Die Autoren schlagen in diesem Beitrag eine Neufassung der verbreitungsbiologischen Terminologie auf. Sie sttzt sich hauptschlich auf die von europischen Forschern entwickelten Ansichten und Begriffen und ist um neue Vorschlge erweitert. /// In the terminology of biological spreading there are many synonyms and superfluous terms, especially in the classification of spreading types. This paper proposes a new conception based primarily on the opinions and terms used by European authors, and completed by a new proposal here. The following terms are proposed here for the first time: Heterodiaspory - an analogous term to heterocarpy and heterospermy (if the diaspore in general is meant); Piptochors - barochors, whose diaspores when ripened are loosened from the parent plant and fall to earth; Clinochors - barochors, whose stems in the post-floral period bend down to earth where the diaspores are loosened; Cystometeorochors - meteorochors with air-filled structures; Pterometeorochors - meteorochors provided with wing-like organs of various morphological origin; Trichometeorochors - meteorochors with trichome-like features of various morphological origin; Cystonautochors - nautochors provided with air-filled structures; Pteronautochors - nautochors provided with wing-like organs; Trichonautochors - nautochors - provided with trichome-like features; Kinochors - species whose diaspores are distributed by the impact of people and animals: Ethelochors - hemerochors whose species are deliberately distributed by man; Diasporology - this term is proposed to replace the discussed term "carpobiology"; Biotic typeclass - species whose diaspores are distributed by their own powers or by man and animals; Abiotic typeclass - species whose diaspores are distributed by abiotic agents. 
4179453| Puccinia tatrensis Urban on Geum reptans in Czechoslovakia is recognized as a subspecies of Puccinia sieversiae Arth. Puccinia waldsteiniae, P. gei and P. gei-parviflori appear to be the most ancient rusts known on the tribe Geeae and it is assumed that their common ancestral form was already present in the Cretaceous period. Puccinia sieversiae is more advanced and has its centre of origin and spread in Central Asia. Phylogenetically most advanced and at the same time most differentiated from each other are species of Phragmidium, i.e. P. circumvallatum and P. miyabeanum. /// Der ursprnglich als neue Art aus den slowakischen Karpaten beschriebene Rostpilz Puccinia tatrensis Urban wird im vorliegenden Beitrag als eine Subspecies der nordamerikanischen Puccinia sieversiae Arth. neu aufgefasst. Auf Grund der Phylogenie der Tribus Geeae und des morphologischen Merkmalkomplexes der heute bekannten, auf der letztgenannten Tribus parasitierenden Puccinia-Arten gelangt der Autor zur Ansicht, dass solche Rostarten wie Puccinia waldsteiniae, P. gei und P. gei-parviflori phylogenetisch als sehr alt anzusehen sind. Der Ursprung der gemeinsamen Urform der letztgenannten drei Arten kann in der Kreidezeit vorausgesetzt werden. Das Entwicklungszentrum der phylogenetisch jngeren Puccinia sieversiae knnte auf den Hochebenen Zentralasiens vorausgesetzt werden. Die auf der Tribus Geeae parasitierenden Phragmidium-Arten, bzw. P. circumvallatum und P. miyabeanum sind mit ihrem Areal auf Eurasien beschrnkt. Zwischen beiden Arten bestehen betrchtliche morphologische, sowie auch kologische Unterschiede, was auf ihre relativ jngere Entstehung hinweist. 
4180930| The description of a man-made forest community, the Clematidi vitalbae-culti-Pinetum nigrae, has nothing to do with the solution of the problem native status of Pinus nigra in the Mal Karpaty Mts. The critical objections both to the syntaxonomical procedure and ecological evaluation (Ellenberg) proved to be unjustified. 
4179424| The paper sums up the information which the author has so far collected about the habitats and phytocenotic conditions of the glacial relics of Scorpidium scorpioides (Hedw.) Limpr., Calliergon trifarium (Web. et Mohr.) Kindb., Paludella squarrosa (Hedw.) Brid., and Meesia triquetra (Hook. et Tayl.) Aongstr. in the Highlands eskomoravsk vrchovina (Bohemian-Moravian Highlands) in Czechoslovakia. Simultaneously, it presents a survey of the localities in which the occurrence of these species has been ascertained up to now. /// In dieser Arbeit werden die Ergebnisse des Studiums der Verbreitung, der Standortsverhltnisse und der znotischen Verhltnisse der sogenannten Glazialrelikte Scorpidium scorpioides (Hedw.) Limpr., Calliergon trifarium (Web. et Mohr.) Kindb., Paludella squarrosa (Hedw.) Brid. und Meesia triquetra (Hook. et Tayl.) Aongstr. auf der Bhmisch-Mhrischen Hhe (eskomoravsk vrchovina) in der Tschechoslowakei vorgelegt. Aus angefhrten Erkenntnissen lassen sich fr die einzelnen Arten folgende Schlsse ziehen: Scorpidium scorpioides und Calliergon trifarium stellen ein Moos-Paar dar, welches im Gebiete die an Mineralien reichsten Moor-Standorte mit stetem, mssig ber der Bodenoberflche stehendem Grundwasserspiegel indiziert. Aus der Zerlegung der Standortsangaben auch von anderen Gebieten ist ersichtlich, dass beide Arten nicht ausschliesslich und extrem kalkliebend sind. Im Gebiete wachsen sie vorwiegend auf Standorten mit Silikatunterlagen, welche unter dem Einfluss von weichem bis sehr weichem Wasser stehen. Es wre besser, den diagnostischen Wert von Scorpidium auf eine Gruppe dauernd berfluteter und nicht extrem kalziphiler Tofieldietalia-Gesellschaften, wo auch Calliergon trifarium sein Optimum hat, zu beschrnken. Die Stellung dieser Gesellschaften im Rahmen der Ordnung Tofieldietalia bentigt eine besondere Studie. Paludella squarrosa ist vom kologischem Standpunkt aus eine ziemlich variable und anpassungsfhige Art. Im studierten Gebiet ist das Optimum ihres Vorkommens auf Standorten mit niedrigerem Grundwasserspiegel auf mineralisch ziemlich gut versorgten Substraten verzeichnet worden. Auf der Bhmisch-Mhrischen Hhe charakterisiert trotz der grossen Variabilitt in den Ansprchen an den Standort, Paludella squarrosa zusammen mit den brigen Arten (Tomenthypnum nitens, Aulacomnium palustre, Sphagnum warnstorfianum, Eriophorum latifolium u. a.) gut die Gruppe der Gesellschaften der Ordnung Caricetalia fuscae W. Koch 1926, welche den bergang zu den Braunmoor-(Niedermoor-) Gesellschaften der Ordnung Tofieldietalia Prsg. apud Oberdorfer 1949 bilden. Die Bestimmung der znotaxonomischen Stellung und der diagnostischen Werte dieses Mooses in Hinsicht zum ganzen Artenareal erfordert jedoch ein lngeres Studium. Meesia triquetra bildet unter den brigen studierten Moosen eine Art, welche die niedrigsten Ansprche auf basische Ionen in den Standortswssern stellt. Zum Unterschiede von den brigen studierten Arten wchst Meesia an Standorten mit  stagnierendem Wasser. Das Grundwasser bleibt gewhnlich nahe der Oberflche, aber Meesia vertrgt auch lnger anhaltende berflutung. Vom znotaxonomischen Standpunkt aus entspricht die Bewertung dieses Mooses als charakteristische Art des Verbandes Eriophorion gracilis Prsg. apud Oberd. 1949, voll den Verhltnissen auf der Bhmisch-Mhrischen Hhe. 
4180769| Floristic composition and ecology of a segetal community was estimated and related to changes of cover and the height of the crop stand. Properties of dominant species are described. Results are commented from the point of view of autecology of participant species. /// Beim verschiedenen Deckungsgrad der Gerste unterscheidet sich die Zusammensetzung der Unkrautznose. Das berwiegen einer Art hngt am meisten von ihrem speziellen Wachstum und ihrer Lebensform ab, die entscheiden, ob sie sich als Dominante durchsetzen kann. kologische Ansprche der Art, vor allem die Beziehung zum Stickstoffgehalt und zu den Lichtbedingungen, bestimmen, bei welchem Deckungsgrad der Kulturpflanze die Art die hchste Dominanz erreicht. Mit steigendem Deckungsgrad der Gerste erreichen die einzelnen Dominanten ihr Vertretungsmaximum in folgender Reihenfolge: Medicago lupulina var. willdenowiana, Fallopia convolvulus, Veronica persica, Stellaria media und Galium aparine. Auf Grund der Eigenschaften der Segatalvegetation (floristische Zusammensetzung, Artendiversitt, Artenquitabilitt, Anzahl der Arten) kann der Bestand des Feldes in drei Bereiche eingeteilt werden, die im grossen und ganzen der Dngung mit unterschiedlichen Stickstoffgaben entsprechen (ungedngte Streifen, 70 kg N/ha und 140 kg N/ha). 
4181268|Two subspecies of Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla were cultivated in submerged and non-submerged conditions. The production of tubers, the proportion of tubers remaining dormant and the time between production and reactivation were investigated. Total tuber production was found to be dependent on subspecies and may be considered a biological character of the subspecies. Bolboschoenus maritimus ssp. compactus, a subspecies of less flooded habitats, produced more tubers with a greater capacity for growth leaving a smaller proportion of dormant tubers. Inactivity of tubers and their reactivation after one or two years were enhanced by submergence in both subspecies. The proportion of tubers that are permanently dormant as well as the dormancy of the whole plant are important features influencing the survival of populations of B. maritimus over periods of unfavourable conditions.
4179549| This paper contains a brief survey of the four subgeneric sections which comprise the genus Brassavola R. Br. of the Orchidaceae, with special reference to the group of species ( Grandiflorae Rolfe) which Schlechter proposed separating from Brassavola as the genus Rhyncholaelia. The author maintains that these species should be allowed to remain in Brassavola as a distinct section. 
4180730| The paper brings a description of the Malvion neglectae communities in the Podunajsk nina lowland (Malvetum neglectae, Malvetum pusillae, Matricario-Anthemitetum cotulae, Polygono-Chenopodietum muralis and Chenopodium hybridum-comm). The emphasis is put upon the synmorphological, synecological and syntaxonomical features of the studied communities. The Polygono-Chenopodietum muralis is described as a new association. /// Die Malvion neglectae-Ruderalpflanzengesellschaften wurden aus den nrdwestlichen Teil der Donau-Tiefebene beschrieben. Es handelt sich um folgende Gesellschaften: Malvetum neglectae, Malvetum pusillae, Matricario-Anthemitetum cotulae, Polygono-Chenopodietum muralis und die Chenopodium hybridum-Ges. Besonders wurden synmorphologische, syntaxonomische und synkologische Charakteristika den Gesellschaften betonen. Eimge syndynamische Bemarkungen wurden zugefgt. Das Matricario-Anthemitetum cotulae und die Chenopodium hybridum-Ges. werden das erste Mal aus dem Gebiet der Slowakei dokumentiert. Das Polygono-Chenopodietum muralis wird as neue Gesellschaft beschrieben. Es zeigt sich eine Ntigkeit archaische Typen von Malvion-Gesellschaften zu schtzen. 
4180732|Mire vegetation in the Apuanian Alps (N Italy) is analyzed from the phytosociological and the synecological points of view. Three vegetation types are delimited by numerical methods and compared with mire communities of the Alps and the Apennines. Furthermore, a chorological evaluation of this vegetation is attempted on a floristical basis.
4180444|Karyotaxonomical investigations into the Juncus bufonius aggregate in Slovakia revealed the existence of three cytodemes, namely 2n = 34, 2n = c. 72, 2n = c. 100-110.
4181019|The
4180557| The importance of endemic species for plant communities in the Roumanian Carpathians Mts. has been studied and discussed. Associations of the class Asplenietea trichomanis endemic in the South Carpathians were surveyed; they were classified into some endemic alliances (Gypsophilion petraeae, Micromerion pulegii, and Silenion lerchenfeldianae). Their locus classicus, nomenclatoric type and present distribution were also given. /// Die Arbeit bespricht zuerst die znogenetische Rolle der Phytoendemiten im rumnischen Karpatenraum, die in speziellen Fllen, als geographische Kennoder Assoziationsdifferential-Arten, lokale Pflanzengesellschaften oder Gebietsassoziationen charakterisieren knnen, die dann unmittelbar auch endemische Syntaxa (Verbnde, Assoziationen) umschreiben. Als konkrete Beispiele werden zunchst karpatogene, hauptschlich sdostkarpatisch-endemische Felsspalten-Phytoassoziationen der Klasse Asplenietea trichomanis, in ihrer aktuellen syntaxonomischen Gliederung, gegenwrtig bekannten Verbreitung in den Sdostkarpaten, ihr "locus classicus" und nomenklatorischer Typus vorgestellt. Es werden folgende, sdostkarpatisch-endemische Phytoassoziationen behandelt: 1. Artemisio petrosae-Gypsophiletum petraeae Pucaru et al. 56 nom. mut. 2. Saxifrago rochelianae-Gypsophiletum petraeae Bocaiu, Tuber et Coldea 77 3. Saxifrago demissae-Gypsophiletum petraeae Bocaiu et Tuber 77 5. Achilleo schurii-Campanuletum cochleariifoliae Fink 77 5. Saxifrago moschatae-Drabetum kotschyi Borhidi 58 6. Sileno zawadzkii-Saxifragetum luteo-viridis (Paw. 36) Paw. et Wal. 49 nom. mut. 7. Micromerio pulegii-Parietarietum officinalis Bocaiu 71 nom. mut. 8. Asplenio-Silenetum petraeae Bocaiu 71 9. Seslerio rigidae-Saxifragetum rochelianae Bocaiu 71 10. Campanulo carpaticae-Saxifragetum cuneifoliae (Zlyomi 39) Sanda et Popescu 76 11. Campanulo crassipedis Schneider-Binder, Bocaiu et al. 70 12. Drabo lasiocarpae-Ceterachetum officinarum (Schneider-Binder, Bocaui et al. 70) Peia 78 13. Senecioni glaberrimi-Silenetum lerchenfeldianae Bocaiu, Tuber et Coldea 77 14. Silenetum dinaricae Schneider-Binder et Voik 76 15. Veronico bachofenii-Potum nemoralis Borza 59 nom. inv. Abschliessend wird die interdisziplinre Betrachtungsweise und eine bessere phytogeographische Unterbauung der Pflanzensoziologie unterstrichen. 
4179548|The taxonomy and geographical distribution of Echinodorus grandiflorus (Cham. et Schlecht.) Mich. (Alismataceae) are stated. Former authors also included plants from southern Brazil and Argentina in this species, without the typical pellucid points on the blades; these belong to different species or to hybrids. The author further describes the hybrids of E. grandiflorus with some other species of the same genus and two varieties.
4181132| This part of the comments on the Code of phytosociological nomenclature deals with questions of the effective and valid publication of names of syntaxa, with different types of validation of names, as well as with the original diagnosis of syntaxa. Explanations of the application of the respective articles and recommendations based on personal experience with the preparation of the Code as well as personal proposals for modification of the Code are added. /// Dieser Teil des Kommentars zum Code der pflanzensoziologischen Nomenklatur befasst sich mit allgemeinen Problemen der wissenschaftlichen Nomenklatur und der richtigen Anwendung des Codes, besonders aber mit den Kapiteln 1 und 2. Die Bedingungen der wirksamen und gltigen Verffentlichung der Namen, die Probleme der Validierung von Namen, die ausreichende Originaldiagnose der Syntaxa und ihre Anwendung in Syntaxonomie und Nomenklatur werden ausfhrlich behandelt. Die Bedingungen der wirksamen Verffentlichung sind bei kommerziell erzeugten und zum Verkauf bestimmten Druckschriften praktisch eindeutig erfllt, ohne Rcksicht auf die angewandte Technik. Bei den zu einen bestimmten Zweck gelegentlich erzeugten Schriften (z.B. Dissertationen oder Exkursionsfhrer) ist die Erfllung der Bedingungen der wirksamen Verffentlichung problematisch, denn ihre Anzahl und Verteilung an die ffentlichkeit sind beschrnkt (sie sind nicht zum Verkauf bestimmt) und von den Pflanzensoziologen kaum kontrollierbar. Die Herstellungstechnik kann in diesen Fllen kaum als entscheidend betrachtet werden. Es sollte eine eindeutigere Lsung dieser Flle gefunden werden. Die gltige Verffentlichung eines Syntaxonnamens beruht auf der Erfllung mehrere Bedingungen, unter den als erste die wirksame Verffentlichung (im Jahre 1910 oder spter) angefhrt ist. Die zwei anderen Bedingungen sind einfach - das benannte Syntaxon muss mittels ausreichender Originaldiagnose definiert werden und sein Name muss von wissenschaftlichen Pflanzennamen abgeleitet sein. Ab 1.1.1979 kam eine weitere Bedingung fr die gltige Verffentlichung des Namens hinzu: die Angabe des nomenklatorischen Typus (bzw. die Anwesenheit eines einzigen als Typus geeigneten Elementes in der Originaldiagnose). ber eine gltige Verffentlichung des Syntaxonamens sollte man nur dann sprechen, wenn alle notwendigen Bedingungen in einer einzigen Publikation gleichzeitig erfllt sind. Leider stellt man noch 11 Jahre nach der ersten Verffentlichung des Codes fest, dass nahezu ein Drittel der neuen Namen ungltig verffentlicht wurde. Der Code ermglicht es, die ungltig verffentlichten Namen nachtrglich zu validieren. Leider sind im Code weder alle Flle der Validierung noch ihre praktische Lsung angefhrt. Deshalb ist eine bersicht der Flle der ungltigen Verffentlichungen der Namen mit dem Vorschlag ihrer Validierung und dem entsprechend modifizierten Autorzitat beigefgt. Die ausreichende Originaldiagnose wird besonders unter dem Gesichtspunkt der Nachprfung, ob sie wirklich ausreichend ist, diskutiert. Es werden die wichtigsten Flle der syntaxonomischen und nomenklatorischen Anwendung der Originaldiagnose sowie die Fehler erwhnt, die aufgrund von Vernachlssigung oder Fehlinterpretation der Originaldiagnose entstehen knnen. 
4181122|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1989, 588 names have been listed. For each one of them, an appreciation about its validity is given relating to the Code of Nomenclature. 15 names are given in addition to the "Index 1987" (Theurillat et Moravec 1990) and 53 to the "Index 1988" (Theurillat et Moravec 1991).
4180860| The development of vegetation and environment in the Kamenisk kotlina Basin, the Bohemian-Moravian Uplands, Czechoslovakia, during the last 12,000 years is described. The succession of local spring mire vegetation is studied. The results from Kameniky are compared with those from the not too-distant Zalben bog. A re-evaluation of the previous time zonation in the pollen diagram from Zalben is suggested. 
4179978| Germination of the achenes in Myrrhis odorata (L.) Scop. has been examined both in the laboratory and in the experimental plot at Prhonice. Seven samples of achenes collected in the period 1967 to 1974 in montane and submontane regions of the Orlick Mts., Krkonoe Mts. and Jizersk Mts., Czechoslovakia, were used in experiments examining the impact of different stratification. The seeds of this species pass through a dormancy stage which is caused by an underdeveloped embryo. The dormancy could be broken by cold stratification only. The germination started after a period of 59 to 65 days in the variant stratified at -1 to +5 C, and after 63 to 82 days in the variant stratified at +3 to +5 C. The majority of seeds germinated after 70 to 90 days in the former and after 80 to 110 days in the latter variant. /// Die Keimungskologie von Myrrhis odorata wurde einige Jahre lang im Laboratorium und auf einer Versuchsparzelle in Prhonice untersucht. Die Unterbrechung der Dormanz wurde nur bei jenen Samen erzielt, die bei einer Temperatur von 1 bis 5 C, d. h. bei Varianten
4180319|The author submits the diagnosis of a new form of Rosa canina L. s.l., which grows in West Pomerania in the environs of Gryfino. It is a characteristic peculiarity of the taxon described that its pedicels are permanently and thickly pilose during the whole life of the plant.
4180837|The present paper gives comments on the nomenclature of associations of Nardetalia and Nardo-Caricion rigidae from Central Europe. A brief list of important homonyms and ambiguous names is added.
4180418|The contribution concerns typification of names of orders and alliances which belong to the orders Nardetalia and Juncetalia squarrosi. The rejection of the following alliance names is suggested for various reasons: Festuco ovinae-Nardion Klika 1958, Nardo-Agrostion capillaris Nordhagen 1937, Nardo-Trifolion alpini Preising 1949.
4181557| Differences between two subspecies of Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla (= Scirpus maritimus L.) in different habitats (littoral and terrestrial) are partly due to variations in the buoyancy of their achenes, caused by different anatomical structure of the fruits. This hypothesis was tested by comparing fruit buoyancy and anatomy of both subspecies at several localities. Plants were sampled from Bolboschoenus maritimus subsp. maritimus (plants with branched inflorescences and triangular fruits, 4 localities) and B. maritimus subsp. compactus (Hoffm.) Hejn (plants with compact inflorescences and prevailing concave fruits, 4 localities) in the Czech and Slovak Republics, and B. maritimus subsp. compactus (plants with compact inflorescences and convex fruits, 1 locality) from the coast of South Sweden. From each locality a plant with several tubers connected by rhizomes was taken and transferred into the experimental garden; from these cultivated plants (clones) mixed samples of fruits collected from each clone were used for buoyancy tests and a study of their anatomy. Fruit buoyancy was found to depend on the anatomical structure of the pericarp - the presence of aeriferous tissue in the exocarp serves as the main floating organ. This differentiated all plants studied into two groups: short-floating subsp. maritimus, with a thin or none aeriferous tissue in the exocarp, and long-floating subsp. campactus with well developed aeriferous tissue. Differences in fruit buoyancy corresponds to differences in the prevailing habitat types of both subspecies studied in the inland sites: the frequent occurrence of subsp. campactus in temporarily flooded terrestrial habitats contrasts with the prevalence of subsp. maritimus in the littoral of water bodies. This is an example of intra-specific ecological differentiation leading to differentiation in wetland communities. 
4179657|The ecology of two dominant grass species growing in xerothermic grasslands of the Bohemian Karst has been compared. Field observations and experimental cultivations showed that Festuca valesiaca Gaudin can better tolerate more extreme dry and warm conditions of southern slopes. Festuca rupicola Heuff. possesses greater competitive capacity in deeper and wetter soils. Young seedlings of F. valesiaca survive successfully the overheating of the soil surface exposed to strong insolation.
4180155| In dieser Arbeit wird ber 3 Catillaria- und 19 Bacidia-Arten berichtet, die in einer Kollektion foliicoler Flechten aus Zare festgestellt wurden. Von diesen werden folgende Arten als neu beschrieben: Catillaria encephalarti sp. n., C. mirabilis sp. n., Bacidia ituriensis sp. n., B. lisowskii sp. n., B. sorediantha sp. n. und B. wirthii sp. n. Erstmalig in Afrika werden Bacidia dimidiata (Babingt.) R. Sant. und B. micrommata (Krempelh.) R. Sant. nachgewiesen. Auf dem aus Goniocysten bestehenden Lager von Catillaria mirabilis (sp. n.) kommen soralhnliche Goniocystangien vor; diese bei Flechten zuvor erst einmal beobachteten Vermehrungsorgane werden nher behandelt. Ein Bestimmungsschlssel aller bisher bekannten foliicolen Catillaria-Arten sowie Ergnzungen zu dem frher publizierten Schlssel fr afrikanische foliicole Bacidia-Arten werden vorgelegt. 
4180656|Measurements were made, for several seasons, both of the growth rate and biomass production of stands of Bolboschoenus maritimus, the seasonal development of the vertical stand structure together with parallel measurements of microclimatological data including incoming global radiation. Water and bottom soil chemical analyses in relation to the nutrient content in the biomass were compared. The ecological adaptation of the acidophilic subspecies B. m. ssp. maritimus, growing in south-Bohemian oligotrophic fishpond waters with that of the halophilic ssp. compactus was studied in experimental hydroponic cultures and the results discussed with the findings of other authors from different European habitats. The efficiency of solar energy conversion of incoming radiation was calculated by means of energy content biomass analysis.
4181050| Named after its collector Jos Badini, Eulophia badinii is described and distinguished from the only other known species of the genus from Brazilian territory. Floral analysis and type diagnosis are used for the description, which is based mainly on floral characters. 
4181279| The results of a taxonomic study of the Cardamine pratensis group from the Carpathians and Pannonia are presented. Five species are shown to occur in the area studied, namely Cardamine pratensis L., C. matthioli Moretti, C. majovskii Marhold et Zborsk, C. dentata Schult. and C. rivularis Schur. Full synonymy, descriptions, chromosome numbers, taxonomic history, distribution data and ecological notes are provided. 
4179861| Absconditella pauxilla Vzda et Vivant, un nouveau lichen des Pyrnes-Atlantiques est dcrit ici, la diagnose originale tant accompagne d'une planche dessine. Toutes les espces actuellement connues d' Absconditella sont runies dans la cl ci-jointe. 
4181303| Most theories of plant species coexistence assume the presence of diversity maintenance mechanisms, i.e. mechanisms enhancing species richness in a community. We wished to determine whether such a mechanism was operating by establishing a field experiment in the species-rich wooded meadow of Laelatu, western Estonia. Ten to seventeen subordinate species were removed periodically (for 4 years) from 10 permanent plots of 1  1 m (each plot had its specific list of excluded species; 10 plots served as control). Since the removed species were all subordinate ones, very little biomass was removed, but at the same time richness was reduced by 25-33%. If some diversity maintenance mechanism was operating, we would expect that immigration of other subordinate species would restore the original species richness. It was not possible to reject the null hypothesis of an identical immigration rate of new species into manipulated and control plots. The rate of small-scale species turnover was not affected by the removal of subordinate species. Interrelations of five richness characteristics were studied, by comparing empirical correlations among them, with those expected from a null model of random migration of species. The immigration rate of new species appeared to be related to the number of constant species, and immigration/extinction balance related to initial richness, more strongly than predicted by the null model. In the manipulated series these relationships matched the expectation from the null model. While the results generally support the so-called species pool hypothesis (and the carousel model), it seems that species small-scale turnover depends on the richness pattern in the studied grassland. In the case of plots with artificially reduced richness no departures can be detected from the random migration hypothesis. 
4179723| Three races of Vicia cracca L. have been found on the territory of Czechoslovakia, two with the chromosome number 2 n = 14 and one with 2 n = 28. Diploid races seem to be more primitive and are less widely distributed. They occur mostly in the primary communities while the tetraploid race is very plastic in the ecological respect and is common both in primary and secondary communities. These races are characterized by some morphological and ecological features. As far as the vertical distribution is concerned, one of the diploid races and the tetraploid occur mostly in the lowland and in the colline zone, the second diploid race has a mountain character. The related tetraploid species Vicia oreophila ertov, with the chromosome number 2n = 28 is distributed at similar altitudes. /// Vicia cracca L. gehrt zu den sehr vernderlichen Arten der Gattung, sie ist durch eine breite kologische Amplitude und ein sehr ausgedehntes Verbreitungsgebiet gekennzeichnet. 1. Die Vernderlichkeit der Art ussert sich vor allem durch die Grsse der Pflanzen, durch die Stengellnge und -zahl, die Lnge der Bltenstandstiele, die Form des Bltanstandes, die Bltenzahl im Bltenstande, die Bltenfarbe und -grsse und die Samenzahl in den Hlsen. Die Merkmale an vegetativen Organen weisen einen Zusammenhang mit den Standortbedingungen auf; in der Kultur waren ihre Werte unbestndig. Die Merkmale aus dem Bereich der Bltenzahl und -farbe erweisen sich als bestndiger und stehen meist in wechselseitiger Korrelation. Zusammenhnge unter anderen Merkmalen gelang es nicht zu ermitteln. Die Mehrheit verschiedener Formen stellt Standortmodifikationen dar, die in der Kultur unbestndig sind. 2. Von den anatomischen Merkmalen war ein Zusammenhang zwischen der Chromosomenzahl einerseits und der Pollenkrnergrsse andererseits aber nicht mit der Spaltffnungsgrsse nachweisbar. Die Form der Epidermiszellen ist  diegleiche. Die Werte dieser Merkmale sind vernderlich, aber die Unterschiede sind nicht allzu charakteristisch. 3. Auf dem Gebiet der Tschechoslowakei wurden drei Rassen von Vicia cracca L. festgestellt. Zwei diploide Rassen (Chromosomezahl 2n = 14), davon eine Tieflands- und eine Gebirgsrasse, erweisen sich als ursprnglicher und kommen vorwiegend an Standorten von natrlichen Charakter vor. Die tetraploide Rasse (Chromosomezahl 2n = 28) erscheint als eine jngere, sehr plastische Rasse, die an unterschiedlichen Standorten von sowohl natrlichen als auch sekundrem Charakter vorkommt. Bei allen drei Rassen kommt eine parallele Variabilitt zum Vorschein; es war nicht mglich, einen absoluten Zusammenhang eines bestimmten Komplexes morphologischer Eigenschaften mit einem bestimmten Zytotyp herauszufinden. Nur bei der Bltenstandlnge, und Bltenzahl und -farbe lsst sich eine vorwiegende Zustndigkeit bestimmter Werte zu einer bestimmten Rasse feststellen - doch auch diese hat weder eine vollstndige noch dauernde Gltigkeit. In der Verbreitung einzelner Rassen tritt eine bestimmte Gesetzmssigkeit zutage. Eine der diploiden Rassen ist vorwiegend im Tiefland und Hgelland, selten auch im unteren Teil der Gebirgsstufe verbreitet; an diese knpft die tetraploide Rasse an, die in Tiefebenen und in kolliner Stufe vorkommt und bis in die Gebirgsstufe hinaufsteigt. Die andere diploide Rasse ist vorwiegend in der Gebirgsstufe verbreitet, seltener steigt sie in die kolliner Stufe hinab, andererseits steigt sie jedoch bis in die subalpine Stufe hinauf. In irgendwelchen Teilen des Staates hat eine hnliche Verbreitung die nahestehende Art Vicia oreophila ertov, die tetraploid ist. Diese Art unterscheidet sich von V. cracca durch einige morphologische Merkmale. Ausser den Populationen mit euploiden Pflanzen wurden in einigen Populationen auch Pflanzen mit aneuploider (hypo- oder hyperploider) Chromosomenzahl sowie eine triploide Pflanze gefunden. Diese Pflanzen kamen an der Grenze zwischen den Hauptvorkommen der diploiden Rassen und der tetraploiden Rasse vor. 
4179766|Methodological recommendations are given for comparative investigations of production by invasion stands of reed (Phragmites communis Trin.). The comparisons are mainly based on estimates of the seasonal maximum shoot biomass and leaf area index. Recommendations for a quantitative morphological characteristic of the Phragmites shoots, and for a description of the habitat, are also given.
4179568| Die Abhandlung fasst die Ergebnisse der Pollen- und Grossrestanalyse aus dem Torflager "Velansk cesta" am sdlichen Rand des Beckens Tebosk pnev (Wittingauer Becken) in Sdbhmen zusammen. Auf Grund dieser Resultate wurde eine Rekonstruktion der Vegetation des Moors selbst und auch der Vegetation seiner Umgebung ab Beginn der Sedimentation in jngerer Dryaszeit bis heute vorgenommen. /// The present paper sums up the results of palaeobotanical investigation of the "Velansk cesta" peat deposit in southern Bohemia (in the Tebo basin). The first sediments in the mire were deposited in a water reservoir during the younger Dryas period. As suggested by results of macroscopic and pollen analyses, the vegetation of the deposit was closely related to the subarctic relic plant community Nupharetum pumili Oberd. 1957. Pollen grains and macroremains of Nuphar pumila, Myriophyllum alterniflorum, Batrachium sp., Potamogeton cf. praelongus, P. cf. natans, P. cf. obtusifolius, and P. cf. gramineus were found in our samples. The edge of the water reservoir was covered with swamp communities in which the following mosses were also copiously represented: Scorpidium scorpioides, Meesia triquetra, Calliergon giganteum, and Tomenthypnum nitens. Between the Pre-boreal and Boreal periods the whole basin was filled in and swamp communities became predominant on the mire. At the beginning of the Atlantic period, these plant communities were replaced by reed-swamp stands. New species, representing a shift towards oligotrophy appeared here as late as the end of the Atlantic period. A further step towards oligotrophy of the deposit took place in the older Sub-atlantic period when the area of the bog was invaded by species of the family Vacciniaceae, by Molinia coerulea, and by Pinus. The vegetation has retained this character up to the present period. In the younger Dryas period the neighbourhood of the deposit was not continuously covered by forest. Pinus, Betula, and Salix were the most numerous trees, with Juniperus and Populus tremula and perhaps even Hippopha rhamnoides, Ulmus, and Alnus also present in the area. Communities of heliophytes were also numerous. In the Pre-boreal period discontinuous pine forests predominated, while birch did not attain much ground here. The other woody plants constituted an insignificant admixture only. In the Boreal period, the pine covers - consisting mostly of pine - were already continuous. Hazel, in contrast to the pattern found elsewhere in Europe, did not attain higher values here in this period. During the Atlantic period the pine covers began to retreat and their place was taken by thermophilous woody plants of the Quercetum mixtum with hazel and partly with spruce. At the end of the period, beech appeared in the area. In the older Sub-atlantic period, spruce and alder predominated in the neighbourhood of the deposit, while in the wider area the forest consisted mostly of oak, elm, lime, and ash, and of hazel in the undergrowth. Beech and fir perhaps never predominated in the vegetation surrounding the deposit. Finds of pollen of the synanthropic herbs suggest that man may already have been present in the area in this period. In the younger Sub-atlantic period, pine again predominated in the forest and Carpinus and Acer appeared here for the first time. Cultivation of soil by man in this period was proved by finds of the pollen of cereals and weeds. Comparison of the results of pollen analyses performed on samples from the "Velansk cesta" mire with those obtained by M. Puchmajerov from the locality of "Hhenbergsk blato" revealed considerable differences. 
4181548| The Seslerio-Caricetum sempervirentis and the Caricetum ferrugineae from the Northern Calcareous Alps show considerable ecological and regional variation. 412 relevs representing both communities were classified by cluster analysis. Several subassociations and variants were distinguished and interpreted principally in terms of ecology and geographical distribution. 
4179547| In Herbarien des Nationalmuseums in Prag wurden Typenbelege zweier im Jahre 1826 von Graf K. Sternberg beschriebenen Rosenarten gefunden; es wurde festgestellt, dass Rosa affinis Sternb. ein Synonym von Rosa pendulina L. und Rosa gentilis Sternb. ein Synonym von Rosa spinosissima L. ist. /// The author found and identified the type-items of two species of roses of the National Museum in Praha described from Istria in 1826 by K. Sternberg. He analyses these items in detail, compares them with Sternberg's descriptions and Borbs' revision, states some discrepancies and inaccuracies and concludes that the hitherto existing taxonomical evaluation of these species is not correct. In his oppinion Rosa affinis Sternb. is a mere synonym of Rosa pendulina L. and Rosa gentilis Sternb. is a synonym of Rosa spinosissima L. 
4179731| Durch Auswertung von fnf Pollendiagrammen der Profile aus dem Jungholozn wurden pollenanalytische Unterlagen fr die Rekonstruktion der ursprnglichen Waldvegetation im mittleren Teil des Otava-Bhmerwaldvorgebirges in Sdbhmen (Tschechoslowakei) gewonnen. Die Gegenberstellung der Ergebnisse der pollenanalytischen Rekonstruktion und der mit geobotanischen Methoden durchgefhrten Rekonstruktion ergab, dass die ursprngliche Vegetation aus Buchen-Tannenwldern mit bedeutender Beimischung von Fichte bestand, am Nordrand des Gebietes aber aus Tannenwldern mit Fichte und mit geringer Beimischung von Buche, und dass es in diesem Gebiet zu der auf Grund der geobotanischen Rekonstruktion vorausgesetzten Gestaltung des azidophilen Eichenwaldes wahrscheinlich nicht gekommen ist. Die Pollenanalysen zeigten ferner, dass das heutige Vorkommen der Anzeiger von azidophilen Eichenwldern und im Gegenteil dazu die vllige Abwesenheit von Indikatoren der anspruchsvolleren Buchentannenbestnde als Sekundrerscheinung betrachtet werden muss, die durch Besiedlung und deren Folgen auf die ursprngliche Vegetation verursacht wurde. /// The paper presents the results of pollen analyses of young Holocene sediments deposited in the central part of the Otava foothills of the umava Mountains in southern Bohemia, Czechoslovakia. The pollen diagrams from Kraselov (PS-5-A), Mladotice (PS-6-A), Nmice (PS-7-A), Vacovice (PS-4-A), Nahoany (PS-3-A) and two other diagrams from Ltn (PS-1-A) and Bohumilice (PS-2-A), published before, are evaluated in order to reconstruct the natural forest vegetation in the area, now, due to man's activity, having a completely changed vegetational cover. According to the pollen analyses the natural climax forests in the area were formed by fir, spruce and beech (the last tree less abundant along the northern border of the area investigated). These mixed forests were similar to the present communities of the all. Fagion Luquet 1926 emend. Pawl. 1928 or Luzulo-Fagion Lohm. et Tx. 1954; fir forests prevailed in the northern part of the area. The representation of more thermophilous plants (group of QM: oak, lime, elm, etc.) was negligible throughout the region; the more numerous occurrence of lime was only local. The existence of acidophilous oak forests, reconstructed in the area by means of phytogeographical and phytosociological methods, cannot be supported by pollen analyses. The expansion of indicators of the all. Quercion robori-sessiliflorae Br.-Bl. 1932 seems to be of secondary origin, resulting from the deforestation of most of the territory after settlement in the 12th century. Intensive human activity also explains the almost complete absence of indicators of the original beech-fir forests. It is almost certain that the borderline between the oak zone and fir-beech zone does not pass through the area. However, it is probable that the northern edge of the area was covered by the transitional fir belt usually occurring between those two zones in Central Europe. The border itself should be situated further northward and northeastward and lies outside the area studied. 
4181372| The occurrence and taxonomy of a little known species Pediastrum orientale (Hydrodictyaceae, Protosiphonales, Chlorophyceae), which was found during the study of subfossil limnic sediments, are evaluated and discussed. This species was found in samples, pollen analyzed since the sixties in the locality varcenberk (southern Bohemia, Czech Republic), but its determination was impossible at that time. In spite of some morphological differences, the population mentioned evidently corresponds with the little known alga described originally as Pediastrum pearsonii var. orientale Skuja 1937 [= Pediastrum orientale (Skuja) Jankovsk et Komrek, comb. nov.]. A more precise description of this species, which should enable its easier identification in pollen slides from limnic sediments, is presented, and further data about its ecology and distribution are summarized. The diacritical features of similar species are compared. The recent distribution of Pediastrum orientale consists of several localities very distant from each other; it seems to be confined to clear and cold (catharobic) water biotopes. The sporopollenin structures on the cell walls are more recognizable in pollen slides than in recent samples of living material. 
4180060| Als Vorarbeit zu einer Flechtenflora der Tschechoslowakei wird der zweite Beitrag vorgelegt, in dem 25 Arten und 2 Gattungen taxonomisch, chorologisch und kologisch behandelt werden; drei Arten (Caloplaca isidiigera, Forssellia umbilicata und Lecanora chalcophila) und eine Gattung (Polysporina) werden als neu beschrieben; eine Emendierung der Gattung Scoliciosporum Massalongo wird durchgefhrt und ein Bestimmungsschlssel der besser bekannten europischen Scoliciosporum-Arten zusammengestellt. Zehn neue Kombinationen werden vorge-schlagen: Huilia musiva (Koerb.) comb. n. var. subsquamescens (Vzda) comb. n., Gyalidea diaphana (Koerb.) comb. n., Polysporina simplex (Dav.) comb. n., P. cyclocarpa (Anzi) comb. n., P. dubia (H. Magn.) comb. n., Scoliciosporum chlorococcum (Stenh.) comb. n., Sc. pruinosum (P. James) comb. n., Sc. sarothamni (Vain.) comb. n. und Sc. schadeanum (Erichs.) comb. n. /// In his second contribution to the lichen flora of Czechoslovakia the author gives some ecological and chorological notes on the finds of 25 new or rare lichen species. Some of the species are also discussed taxonomically and nomenclaturally. A new genus Polysporina is established for the Sarcogyne simplex group and the following new combinations are made: P. simplex (Dav.) comb. n. [= Sarcogyne simplex (Dav.) Nyl.], P. cyclocarpa (Anzi) comb. n. [= S. cyclocarpa (Anzi) Steiner] and P. dubia (H. Magn.) comb. n. (= S. dubia H. Magn.). The genus Scoliciosporum Massal., originally including two different species groups, is emended and lectotypified by Sc. holomelaeum (Flk.) Massal; consequently the following new combinations are proposed: Sc. chlorococcum (Stenh.) comb. n. [= Bacidia chlorococca (Stenh.) Lett.], Sc. pruinosum (P. James) comb. n. [= Bacidia pruinosa P. James], Sc. sarothamni (Vain) comb. n. (= Bacidia sarothamni Vain.) and Sc. schadeanum (Erichs.) comb. n. (= Bacidia schadeana Erichs.) New combinations are also necessary in the genera Huilia Zahlbr. and Gyalidea Lett. ex Vzda: Huilia musiva (Koerb.) comb. n. var. subsquamescens (Vzda) comb. n. [= Haplocarpon musivum (Koerb.) Vzda var. subsquamescens Vzda] and Gyalidea diaphana (Koerb.) comb. n. (= Biatorina diaphana Koerb.). Three new species are stablished: Caloplaca isidiigera sp. n., Forssellia umbilicata sp. n. and Lecanora chalcophila sp. n. 
4181086|Eight new Rubus species are described from the area of Czech Republic (western Czechoslovakia), four of them belonging to ser. Discolores, and one by one to subsect. Rubus, ser. Rhamnifolii, ser. Micantes and ser. Hystrices.
4181266|This paper reviews studies on growth and size-structure dynamics of shoots and clones in clonal plants in comparison with those in non-clonal plants, and discusses the characteristics of clonal plants. The mode of competition between individuals (symmetric versus asymmetric, degree of competitive asymmetry), growth dynamics of individuals, allocation pattern between organs and spatial pattern of individuals are closely correlated with each other in non-clonal plant populations. Theoretical and field studies based on the diffusion model revealed that plants of "height-growth" type (mostly early-successional tree species) and plants of "diameter-growth" type (mostly late-successional tree species) tend to exhibit asymmetric competition and symmetric competition respectively. Moreover, asymmetrically competing plants show smaller effects of variation in individual growth rate and spatial pattern on the size-structure dynamics of the population than symmetrically competing plants. Therefore, the spatial pattern of individuals should be considered especially for plants undergoing symmetric competition. These results for non-clonal plants should have a significant implication also for the growth dynamics and competition in clonal plants. The mean growth rate of shoots [G(t,x) function] and hence the mode of competition between shoots differs among clonal plant species as in non-clonal plants. However, a large magnitude and size-independence (or slightly negative size-dependence) of the variation in growth rate of shoots [D(t,x) function], especially at the early stage in a growing season is a common characteristic of many clonal plant species, in contrast to the positively size-dependent variation in individual growth rate in non-clonal plants. This type of variation in shoot growth rate leads to the persistence of stable shoot populations even when the mean growth rate function is changed, and also in cases where the shoot population structure would be unstable in the absence of variation in growth rate. It is suggested that competition between clones is symmetric in most clonal plant species, which brings about small-scale spatio-temporal changes in species abundance and hence species diversity.
4181348| Fine-scale spatial patterns of native tallgrass prairie vegetation were studied on Konza Prairie, Kansas, USA. Three sites, upland, slope, and lowland, were sampled in an ungrazed watershed. Presence of vascular plant species was recorded in two 25.6 m long transects of contiguous 5  5 cm micro-quadrats on each topographic position. Spatial patterns of species and functional groups were analyzed by information theory models of Juhsz-Nagy. Within-community variability of coexistence was expressed by the diversity and spatial dependence of local species combinations. Considerable diversity in the local coexistence of species was found on each site. Upland and hillside communities were richer and more diverse in species combinations than lowland. Spatial scale effected coexistence relationships. The maxima of information theory estimates varied between 15 and 30 cm. There was no trend in the variation of characteristic scales along the topographical gradient. Above 10 m, all sites tended to be homogeneous. The analysis of spatial associations revealed that variability in the local coexistence of species was strongly constrained in all topographic positions. Overall spatial association of species was the lowest on lowland. The characteristic scales of maximum association were between 1.2 m and 3 m at all sites. The maxima of information theory estimates for the functional group-based data appeared at smaller plot sizes than for the species based analyses. Only weak spatial associations were detected among the functional groups indicating that individuals of functional groups coexist well at small scales, and form combinations close to random expectations. The length of transects did not effect the relative associations. Strong positive correlations were found between the number of components (species or functional groups) and the maxima of information theory models suggesting that richness is a good predictor of within-community coexistence relations. However, there was no relationship between richness and the characteristic scales of community patterns. 
4181207|The following five new foliicolous lichen species are described and illustrated: Bacidina simplex sp. n. (Lecideaceae s. ampl.), Byssoloma absconditum sp. n. and B. confusum sp. n. (Pilocarpaceae), and Macentina pocsii sp. n. (Verrucariaceae s. ampl.), all from Tanzania, and Gyalectidium palmicola sp. n. (Gomphillaceae) from Cuba.
4179633| Die Migration der Pflanzen, die sich in der natrlichen und besonders in der Kulturlandschaft lngs der  stabilen Linien der Wasserlufe (fluminische Migration), Wege, Strassen und Autobahnen (viatische Migration) und Eisenbahnstrecken (ferroviatische Migration) abspielt, wird in der vorgelegten Arbeit als Linienmigration der Pflanzen bezeichnet. Der Autor unterscheidet die kontinuierliche und diskontinuierliche Migration entlang der gegebenen Linie. In engem Zusammenhang mit der diskontinuierlichen Linienmigration der Pflanzen steht die Verbreitung und das Wandern der sog. Siedlungsmigranten, die in dem bestimmten Gebiet und der bestimmten Hhenstufe nur an die Areale der Siedlungen (Drfer, Erholungsorte, Autocampings usw.) gebunden sind. - Die Linienmigration der Pflanzen wird am Beispiel des Baches Studen und der Strasse in seinem Tal (Liptauer Tatra, Westslowakei) demonstriert. /// The recent migration of numerous plant species takes place along the more or less stable lines of water courses, paths, roads and railways. For this type of phyto-migration the comprehensive term "line migration of plants" is introduced here. One can meet the following kinds of line migration: fluminic (along water courses and in their valleys), ferroviatic (along the railways) and viatic (along paths, roads and motorways). The distribution continuity of a species along the studied line can show either continuous or discontinuous migration. In close relation to the line migration of plants is the spreading of so-called settlement migrants, i.e. of those species which in a certain area and at a certain elevation are distributed only within the limits of settlements. Many apophytic, deuterophytic and some neophytic species are settlement migrants. The placing of a species among the settlement migrants is relative - it is bound always to a certain territory and elevation. Numerous species counted among strict settlement migrants in the mountain and subalpine zones are commonly distributed in the lowlands. The line migration of plants has been analysed on concrete example, viz. on the river Studen potok and on the road following its valley. The lines of distribution have been drawn into the horizontal projection of the longitudinal profile of the water course and of the road. The distribution continuity of individual species depends to a high degree on the distribution continuity of ecotopes convenient to their ecological demands as well as on the way the diaspores of the respective plant species are spread. 
4181468|Apomixis and hybridization together contribute to taxonomic complexity in Amelanchier. Hybridization combines genetically divergent genomes and spawns new forms that apomixis perpetuates. Apomixis is aposporous, facultative, and pseudogamous in the genus, and apomicts are generally polyploid, pollen fertile, and pollinated by generalists. That gene flow actually occurs is empirically evident. As apomixis is genetically dominant over sexuality, hybrids involving at least one apomictic parent are apomictic. Clonal reproduction may thus perpetuate F
4181010|This paper presents the results from research of a few macrophyte communities and their dominant stands in the Kiev Reservoir (Ukraine). Largely concentrated on the methodological aspects of biomass sampling in macrophyte communities.
4180282|Seed germination studies of a number of Indian arid zone species were conducted and the seeds were classified into four groups on the basis of germination behaviour. Results of seed germination were also compared with those of old seed collections. Most of the seeds studied showed some form of dormancy, the hard seed coatedness being the most common. In Borreria articularis, germination inhibitors were found. Seeds of different years required different duration of acid scarification for maximum germination and these differences have been attributed to rainfall and other such environmental conditions in those years.
4181467|Aspects of reproductive ecology have been studied in two species of Potentilla (Rosaceae) from interior Alaska. Data were collected to determine mating system traits such as seed: ovule and pollen: ovule ratios, and experiments were carried out in the field in order to study the effect of caging, emasculation, and manual self-pollination on seed set and seed quality. Mating system strategies differ between the two species in the populations examined. High pollen: ovule ratio, high seed: ovule ratio, good autodeposition ability, and unpredictable pollination in concert with self-incompatibility indicate that P. hookeriana in the population studied has adopted a more or less pseudogamous mating system. In contrast, the data suggest that P. uniflora in the studied population is approaching a sexual, facultatively outbreeding species. Because both species exhibit ploidy variation, a trait common among agamospermous plants, it is concluded that both species are likely to be facultatively agamospermous but that sexual reproduction is much more important in the population of P. uniflora than it is in P. hookeriana.
4180036| Eine kritische Wertung von Arbeiten, die sich auf die Artkreuzung von Anagallis arvensis L. (einschliesslich der farbigen Formen) und A. foemina Mill. (= Anagallis  doerfleri Ronn.) beziehen, wurde durchgefhrt. Diese Wertung beruht auf eigener fnfjhriger experimenteller Arbeit der Autorin im Botanischen Garten der Karls-Universitt zu Prag und auf dem Studium der betreffenden Taxa in der Natur und in Herbarien. Sie verfolgte eine Reihe von Merkmalen sowohl in statisch morphologischer, als auch in quantitativer Hinsicht. Mittels des Studiums der Meiosis ermittelte sie Ursachen der niedrigen Fertilitt der Hybride. Die Autorin gewann einen knstlichen Hybridenschwarm und verzeichnete Andeutungen einer Introgression an einigen Pflanzen von natrlichen Lokalitten. Auf Grund der obangefhrten Ergebnisse und im Zusammenhang mit ihnen wurde der Versuch unternommen, die Genese der Sektion Anagallis zu ergrnden. /// 1. A list of localities of the spontaneous hybrid Anagallis  doerfleri Ronn. both from Czechoslovakia and from abroad is given, based on the materials at the author's disposal. 2. The following features are diacritical for the hybrid: the cotyledon shape, the shape of the leaves of the first pair, the petal margin, the shape of glands on the petals and the crown colour. These features are of an intermediary character. 3. The author noticed a congruence between spontaneous and natural hybrids of A.  doerfleri. 4. In the hybrid A.  doerfleri the author ascertained the intermediarity of some quantitative features (e.g. the seed lenght and width, the blade top angle in the cotyledon tip, the length and width of leaves of the first pair, the width of the other leaves, the number of glands on the crown petals, the number of anthocyan spots on the back of the leaves); and the heterosis of others (e.g. leaf length, fruit peduncle length, flower width, the length and width of stomata, anther length). In the case of the length and width of cotyledons, both intermediarity and heterosis are involved. 5. Conspicuous manifestations of heterosis were also noted during the ontogenesis of the hybrid. 6. A congruence between the hybrid A.  doerfleri and artificial hybrids of other combinations of A. arvensis L. f. arvensis and A. foemina Mill. was found. The difference between these hybrids consists in flower colour only. 7. By studying the meiosis course and the pollen viability of the hybrid A.  doerfleri and of its parental species the author found the cause of the low fertility of the hybrid. 8. The author succeeded in growing an artificial hybrid swarm, the composition of which was: F
4181178|In 74 natural populations of the Myosotis palustris and M. laxa groups from former Czechoslovakia three euploid and one aneuploid cytotypes were found that belong to the following species: M. nemorosa Besser, 2n = 22, M. palustris (L.) Nath. em. Reichenb. in Sturm, 2n = 66, M. laxiflora Reichenb., 2n = 66, M. radicans Opiz, 2n = 66(64), M. brevisetacea (Schuster) Holub, 2n = 66(64), and M. caespitosa C.F. Schultz, 2n = 88. With the exception of M. nemorosa, the chromosome numbers are published for the first time for the Czech Republic. The chromosome numbers, 2n = 66, 2n = 64 are found in M. brevisetacea, are new for the literature. The correlation between pollen size and ploidy level has been studied as well, and statistically significant differences were found between cytotypes belonging to different ploidy levels.
4179660|Based upon the studies of behaviour of a rather large number of adventitious plant species in Czechoslovakia, three types of hemerochorous dispersal have been distinguished, according to the number and frequency of different ways of introduction, (i.e. introductions with various kinds of transported goods): the monohemerochorous, oligohemerochorous, and polyhemerochorous species. These terms have been proposed as new.
4181463|DNA fingerprinting has proved useful for the analysis of genotypic distribution and estimation of genetic relatedness in apomictic plant groups like Rubus, Amelanchier, Hieracium and Taraxacum. Speciation through interspecific hybridization has been demonstrated in one case involving apomictic Rubus species. The application of molecular markers to progeny derived from experimental cross-pollinations has yielded information on levels of apomixis as well as on its inheritance and regulation in e.g. Rubus, Poa, Pennisetum and Tripsacum.
4181367|We draw attention to a number of syntaxon names which are invalidly published according to Article 3f of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, and give the valid names for the corresponding syntaxa, ranging in rank from subassociation to alliance. A modification of the wording of Art. 3f is proposed, with the aim of clarifying its interpretation and application, as well as the deletion of the reference to Art. 3f in the second sentence of Art. 6.
4180911|Calamagrostis villosa stands occurring in areas deforested by air-pollution impact in the Moravian-Silesian Beskydy Mountains were characterized by a high dry mass of total underground biomass (
4179576|The author gives a survey of the sea-shore plant communities of Reykjanes peninsula. In all, 5 associations were found, belonging to the alliances Puccinellion maritimae, Atriplicion litoralis and Honckenyo-Elymion arenarii.
4180529| During the palaeobotanical investigation of the Spisk kotlina Basin and the neighbouring areas, seeds of Pinus cembra L. were found in limonitized concretions and peat sediment of the Sivra mire situated near the village of Vyn Rubachy (east of the High Tatra). The presence of this tree species was also confirmed by pollen analysis. It is the first find of fossil seeds dating from the Late glacial in Czechoslovakia. 
4179857|The following chromosome numbers are reported: Erysimum durum J. et C. Presl: 2n = 48; Erysimum hieraciifolium L.: 2n = 32; Chenopodium album L. from three localities in Brno: 2n = 54.
4181302|Using results from a long-term study of fine-scale dynamics in grasslands in four widely separated study areas from two continents, we provide further evidence to support the idea of the carousel model as an aid to describe the high fine-scale temporal and spatial species mobility found in grassland communities. Cumulative species numbers on small subplots in plots situated in stable plant communities, determined as the sum of species appearing in these subplots in one or more years over a period of time, are very high. In floristically different species-rich grasslands, varying from moist pine savannas in North Carolina and Mississippi, to humid chalk grassland in the Netherlands and seasonally dry limestone grassland in Sweden, average species numbers on subplots of 0.01 m
4180260| The difference and/or similarity of both approaches, the one of Soava and the one of Braun-Blanquet, and the reciprocal transferability of the units of cartography is tested using the mapped vegetation of the Siberian steppe as an example. 
4179529| Die Auswertung des umfassenden Materials der Weidegesellschaften Europas ergab, dass der Cynosurion-Verband eine eigene Stellung einnimmt. Syngenetisch, synoekologisch und floristisch ist er klar differenziert, obgleich er sich von anderen verwandten und Kontaktverbnden vorwiegend negativ unterscheidet, d. h. durch das Fehlen der Charakterarten dieser Verbnde. Die bisher bekannten Gesellschaften aus verschiedenen Gebieten Europas knnen als mehrere Gebietsassoziationen dieses Verbandes klassifiziert werden, und zwar innerhalb zweier Assoziationsgruppen Fett-(Tieflands-) und Mager-(Gebirgs-) Gesellschaften. In den Westkarpaten schiebt sich als Verbindungsglied zwischen diese beiden Gruppen von Weidegesellschaften das Lolio-Cynosuretum alchemilletosum, das durch trophische und biotische Faktoren bedingt ist. Im Bereich des humiden Klimas erstreckt sich an der Nordseite der Karpaten die Assoziation Festuco-Cynosuretum, weit stlich vom Zentrum ihres westeuropischen Areals. Aus dem Untersuchungsgebiet werden von oekologischen, syntaxonomischen und wirtschaftlichen Gesichtspunkten aus die Gesellschaften der Talweiden, das Lolio-Cynosuretum Tx. 37, Trifolio-Lolietum Krippelov 67, sowie die Bergweiden, das Anthoxantho-Agrostietum typicum Sill. 33 emend. Jurko beschrieben. /// Pasture communities are very important in the agricultural structure of Slovakia. So far, however, they have been insufficiently studied and are little-known in European phytocoenological literature. In this paper the author attempts to give a phytocoenological picture of pastures belonging to the alliance Cynosurion from the Strov mountains in north-west Slovakia where these associations form a major constituent of the grassland vegetation. Because much information concerning these communities has accumulated in Europe over a considerable number of years new problems have arisen concerning the position of individual pasture communities with regard to their syntaxonomy within the framework of the Zurich-Montpellier School. The author deals mainly with some of these questions in relation to the western Carpathians. Although the alliance Cynosurion has relatively few positive and diagnostically strong characteristic species the communities of this alliance from the Carpathians differ markedly in their floristic composition as a result of grazing in the course of land management practices. The alliance Cynosurion, incorporating pasture and grazed grass after cutting, is characterised in negative way by the absence of some of the characteristic species of related and contact alliances - Arrhenatherion, Polygonion avicularis, Mesobromion, Triseto-Polygonion, Violo-Nardion, Poion alpinae, etc. The specific syngenetical and synecological conditions, as well as the floristic composition of these communities, enables them to be differentiated clearly from each other and from the communities of other alliances, among which they occupy a central position (see fig. 1 on page 104). On the basis of well-established phytocoenological evidence it can be stated that these associations are spreading over most of Europe as a substitute community of deciduous summer forest in different climatic and plant geographical regions. Classification of the constituent communities is possible at the level of regional associations and, consequently, for these mesophilous to moderately xerophilous pastures it is not necessary to create new and higher syntaxonomic units. In the following section a review is presented of previously published regional associations and lower syntaxonomic units from different parts of Europe. After re-evaluation of communities of the alliance Cynosurion from the Carpathian region, a new local associations, typical of the broader region of the Carpathian bow are suggested. It has been shown that owing to the lack of phytocoenological material from transitional areas it has not been possible to determine precisely the extent of the boundary between the west European association, Festuco-Cynosuretum Tx. 1940 apud Bk. 1942 and the west Carpathian association of Anthoxantho-Agrostietum Sillinger 1933 emend. Jurko. On the northern side of the Carpathian massif with its more humid oceanic-Baltic climate, Festuco-Cynosuretum projects across the Carpathian slopes far to the east. The community mentioned by Ralski (1930 and 1931) is identified as a new sub-association, Festuco-Cynosuretum nardetosum, with differential species Nardus stricta, Alchemilla vulgaris, Hypericum maculatum, Stellaria graminea, Gnaphalium silvaticum, Veronica officinalis, etc. Between lowland and mountain pastures in the western Carpathians transitional types arise conditioned by different habitat conditions and by agricultural practices. From analysis of more than 400 relevs (Tab. 1) it has been shown that between the fertile alluvial pastures (Lolio-Cynosuretum) and the extensive ones on the slopes (Anthoxantho-Agrostietum and Festuco-Cynosuretum) a transition type of pasture arises, which may be classified, contrary to the opinions of Grodziska and Zarzycki (1965) as the sub-association Lolio-Cynosuretum alchemilletosum Grodz. and Zarz. 1965 emend. Jurko. The extensive and fertile pastures of the more continental areas of the Rumanian and Slovakian Carpathians which are intensively farmed can be differentiated from each other more easily than those in the west. Valley pastures in the Strov mountains belong to two associations. Association Lolio-Cynosuretum Tx. 1937 spreads on the Vh alluvium and its tributary rivers. By its composition it is generally mesophilous except in the Vh valley where, as a result of hydrological practices causing a drop in the ground-water level, the soil dries out and the vegetation degrades. Sub-association Lolio-Cynosuretum alchemilletosum occurs in mountain localities only, especialy on slopes which are intensively fertilised. The second association, Trifolio-Lolietum Krippelov 1967 lies within the study area on the northern boundary of its Pannonian extension. This is a more xerophilous community and occurs on the drier sandy soils of the Vh alluvium. It differs synecologically and floristicaly from the more typical association, but since its extent is less well known, it is provisionally regarded as a different variant only. Both types of community are documented in table 3 together with groups of differential species. A short comparison with other relevant data from the literature is also included. The mountain pastures belonging to the association Anthoxantho-Agrostietum typicum are very widespread. Floristically they are richer, are more homogeneous and can be distinguished from the previous associations by the differential species indicated in table 4, group a + b. They occur on both calcareous and siliceous soils and these differ from each other only in the form of variants. The boundary with communities of the alliance Mesobromion is sharp. On very oligotrophic soils transitions to the sub-association Anthoxantho-Agrostietum nardetosum and types rich in Sieglingia decumbens and Genista pilosa occur. Finally, in table 5 all results concerning the analyses of the feeding values of individual communities are summarised. 
4180812|The present work was carried out at four waterbodies in the Estonian SSR where seven different habitats of Phragmites australis were selected. The paper gives the results of the study of clones from essentially different sites: the characteristics of the habitat of the species (soil profile, soil analyses, pH of water), morphological features of shoots, the nutrient content in plant parts, the production of clones, and also relations between these characteristics.
4181474|To test whether obligate apomicts can generate genetic variability, the only valid procedure is to investigate heritable variation amongst the offspring of fully agamospermous mothers. Among plants, most reports have been for Taraxacum, and this review concentrates on this genus, although there are many analogous reports for animals. In Taraxacum, within-family variation is commonly found at the levels of ploidy, aneuploidy, recombination and single gene mutation. Faulty disjunction, somatic recombination due to transposon activity, and mutation are all implicated. Although such asexual variation should generate evolutionary change, and there is clear evidence that this has occurred, evolutionary patterns will differ fundamentally from those of outcrossing sexuals. As asexual matrilineal lines cannot shed or disseminate mutational loads, three dimensional relationships are dichotomously dendroid rather than reticulate.
4179421| Lotus uliginosus Schkuhr und L. pedunculatus Cav. sind zwei nahe verwandte Arten, die sich durch einige Merkmale unterscheiden, vor allem durch die Form und Farbe der Blttchen, durch die Form des Kelches und der Krone und durch einige quantitative Merkmale (Grsse der Blttchen, Anzahl der Blten im Bltenstand). Eine weitere Art aus diesem Bereich ist L. granadensis sp. nova, die sich von den beiden vorher genannten Arten hauptschlich durch rundliche Blttchen und hellgrne Farbe unterscheidet. Die Arten unterscheiden sich auch in ihrer Verbreitung. /// Lotus uliginosus Schkuhr and L. pedunculatus Cav. proved to be two related species, which differed in some morphological characters, particularly in the shape of the leaflets and the shape of the calyx and corolla, and further in some quantitative characters shown in the table. L. granadensis is a species closely related to L. pedunculatus. It is characterized by round leaflets and bright green colour. L. uliginosus Schkuhr is an European species with subatlantic areal character. It is distributed throughout the greater part of Europe and in North-West Africa. L. pedunculatus Cav. is a west-Mediterranean endemic species with areal limited to East and South Spain. Habitation of the species in Africa is probable. The features of L. granadensis are similar; it is preliminarily known only from South Spain and North-West Africa. 
4179531|The authors give the known distribution of Bidens pilosa L. in Cuba, discuss some features of its ecology, its diaspore production, and enumerate its parasites known in Cuba.
4179698| The paper summarizes all accepted species and subspecies of the genera Petasites and Endocellion, together with important synonyms, type quotations, main diacritical characters, and an outline of their distribution. The new taxa described in this study are as follows: subgen. Capillopetalum, sect. Cricostigma, sect. Schistostigma, sect. Trichostigma, sect. Sceptrostigma, further ser. Japonici, ser. Orientales, ser. Fragrantes, ser. Spurii, ser. Imberbes, ser. Sagittati, and subspecies Petasites frigidus subsp. sibiricus. New combinations: Petasites radiatus (J. F. Gmel.), P. rubellus (J. F. Gmel.) P. hybridus subsp. georgicus (Manden.), P. nivalis subsp. vitifolius (L. E. Greene), P. nivalis subsp. hyperboreus (Rydb.), P. palmatus subsp. speciosus (Nutt.), Endocellion sibiricum (J. F. Gmel.) and E. glaciale (Ledeb.). /// Die vorliegende Arbeit stellt eine monographische bersicht von Taxa der Gattungen Petasites und Endocellion mit einem Hybridenverzeichnis dar. Die bersicht enthlt zugleich Zitationen von Typen (die mancherorts von neuem gebildet worden sind), die wichtigsten Synonyma, die diagnostischen Merkmale von supraspezifischen Taxa, Arten und Unterarten; die Verbreitung der Taxa wird nur im Umriss angegeben. Die Gliederung der Gattung Petasites beruht auf den morphologischen (teilweise auch auf den chemotaxonomischen) Unterschieden und auf der Phylogenese der untersuchten Taxa. Als Ergebnis dieser Untersuchungen sind einige neue Taxa in den Kategorien von Sektion und Serie sowie eine neue Untergattung Capillopetalum (mit zwei ostasiatischen Arten, Petasites tricholobus und P. versipilus, die durch ihre  bilabiaten, naarfrmig geteilten Kronen der weiblichen Blten charakteristisch sind) gebildet worden. Das Taxon Nardosmia mit zungenartigen Kronen nur bei weiblichen Blten, das hufig als selbstndige Gattung abgetrennt wird, ist in die Gattung Petasites als Untergattung eingereiht worden. Andererseits wurde die sibirische Gattung Endocellion mit zwei Arten abgetrennt, die - ausser anderen Merkmalen - durch einkpfige Stengel, Bltter ohne Ausschnitt an der Blatt-spreitenbasis, fadenfrmige Wurzelstcke und unterschiedliche Chromosomenverhltnisse charakteristisch ist. Gleichzeitig wurden neue supraspezifische und subspezifische Namen entworfen. Der Arbeit ist eine Anzahl von Abbildungen beigefgt, durch die die Ergebnisse des Studiums vom Herbar-material und von lebenden Pflanzen dokumentiert werden. 
4181048| Some taxonomic and nomenclatural problems within Lycopodiales are discussed. In Huperzia Bernh. three subgenera have been distinguished, one of them described as a new one. With regard to a separate position of Lycopodium sect. Magellanica B. llgaard, a new genus Austrolycopodium Holub was proposed, comprising eight species mostly from the Southern Hemisphere. An analysis of the validity of the generic name Diphasium C. Presl 1845 was carried out with an affirmative result. Six names for infrageneric taxa of Huperzia and 44 new combinations for species have been proposed; in addition to those of Austrolycopodium (8) they refer mainly to Huperzia (22) and Palhinhaea (9). 
4180373|The mass ratio of live to dead roots (L/D root ratio) in grassland stands treated with cutting, mineral fertilization and recultivation varied between 0.48 and 4.19. The highest values of this ratio, i.e., a substantially higher amount of live roots, were found in unfertilized experimental stands. The application of mineral fertilizers resulted in a decrease in the L/D ratio, above all in recultivated stands. The differences in the biomass of live roots between natural and recultivated stands, both fertilized with
4180689| Throughout the growth season of 1976 the seasonal changes relating to phenology and height of every shoot as well as to density and above-ground biomass in the harvesting areas were investigated at two monospecific stands of Bolboschoenus maritimus. /// Vom Greifswalder Bodden, einem vergleichsweise seichten Gewsser an der Ostseekste der DDR zwischen der Insel Rgen und dem Festland, wurden zwei Reinbestnde von Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla untersucht. Whrend einer Vegetationsperiode wurden 14tgig die oberirdische Biomasse von 1 m
4181030| 47 names and combinations are published as new, chiefly from the elaboration of Alchemilla by A. Plocek in L. Bertov (ed.), Flra Slovenska 4/3, Bratislava (in press). The populations recognized as varieties and species new to science (12 and 29, respectively) come from the summits of W. Beskids (9 taxa), Belianske Tatry (12), other parts of Tatra (8), Fatra (5), elsewhere in the Central Carpathians in Slovakia (4), the Low Beskids in E. Slovakia (1), W. and E. Carpathians (1), N. Moravia (1). In addition, three epithets are published in a new combination, and the names for two new subseries and a new forma are proposed. 
4181475|Modes of evolution of species classified within different sections in Taraxacum involve diverse processes, viz. primary divergence of an ancestral sexual diploid, hybridization between a tetraploid apomict and a diploid sexual hybrid, differentiation of an advanced apomictic taxon at one ploidy level, hybridization between a sexual tetraploid and a sexual diploid, formation of a polyploid series from an apomictic ancestor of a lower polyploidy level, and remote hybridization between an autumn-flowering ancestral diploid and a spring-flowering derivative diploid or apomict. Various reproduction systems of the plants involved, different environments and different timing of the processes contribute to a very varied nature of the species groups.
4180200| Diagnoses of three corticolous species of Discolichenes from Hawaii are presented: Bacidia violascens K. Kalb et Vzda sp. n., Dimerella degeneri K. Kalb et Vzda sp. n. and D. frederici K. Kalb sp. n. The isotypes will be distributed in fasc. No. 70 of the "Lichenes selecti exsiccati" (issued by the Botanical Institute, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, Pruhonice near Praha). 
4180793| Dynamics of bryophytes were followed in a chalk grassland in 4 plots, 2525 cm, each subdivided in to 400 subplots, in which every 3-4 months the presence of all bryophyte species was recorded. During the first 14 months no successional trends were visible. However, dynamics on the scale of one subplot were considerable. Degree of dynamics was markedly negatively correlated with original presence in the plots. Several explanations for this correlation are discussed. 
4179442| The following genera are redefined: Albatrellus S. F. Gray, Heterobasidion Bref., Haploporus Bond. et Sing. ex Sing., Fomitopsis P. Karst. and Rigidoporus Murrill; two new subgenera are described: Polyporus subgen. Dendropolyporus Pouz. (type: Polyporus umbellatus) and Rigidoporus subgen. Neooxyporus Pouz. (type: Polyporus latemarginatus); the genus Oxyporus (Bourd. et Galz.) Donk is classified as a subgenus of the genus Rigidoporus Murrill and the genera Bjerkandera P. Karst. and Leptoporus Qul. are classified as subgenera of the genus Tyromyces P. Karst. The new subfamily Albatrelloideae Pouz. (genera: Albatrellus and Grifola) is described and 14 new specific combinations are made. The new genus Irpicodon Pouz. (type: Irpex pendulus) is proposed. /// Abtopp        (Albatrellus S. F. Gray, Heterobasidion Bref., Haploporus Bond. et Sing in Sing., Fomitopsis P. Karst.  Rigidoporus Murrill), ,  ,    ( ,  ).        Albatrellus          .   Heterobasidion         ,   Haploporus  Fomitopsis   .  Rigidoporus    Oxyporus,     .  Rigidoporus latemarginatus (Dur. et Mont.) Pouz. (= Poria ambigua Bres.)     Neooxyprous Pouz.  Polyporus umbellatus (Pers.) ex Fr.    Grifola S. F. Gray   Polyporus Mich.         .   Polyporus     Dendropolyporus Pouz.   .  Bjerkandera (P. Karst.) Pouz. (  )     Tyromyces P. Karst.,  Albatrellus  Grifola    Albatrelloideae.   Albatrellus, Rigidoporus  Tyromyces     14 .     Irpicodon Pouz.    Irpicodon pendulus (Fr. ex Fr.) Pouz. 
4181133| Chromosome numbers are reported for 26 collections representing 12 Mongolian Potentilla taxa. The first chromosome records are reported for P. [] agrimonioides Bieb. (2n = 42, 49-50), P. [] chionea Sojk (2n = 64, 74+1B, 84-86, 86), P. [] stepposa Sojk (2n = 62) and P. supina L. subsp. costata Sojk (2n = 42). Tetraploid and pentaploid populations of P. sericea L. (2n = 28, 34, 35) and hexaploid populations of P. ornithopoda Tausch (2n = 42) were found in Mongolia. Chromosome numbers of the following species were confirmed: P. longifolia Willd. ex Schlecht. (2n = 14), P. multifida L. (2n = 28), P. sanguisorba Willd. ex Schlecht. (2n = 28), P. sericea L. (2n = 42), P. supina L. subsp. paradoxa (Nutt.) Sojk (2n = 28, China) and P. tanacetifolia Willd. ex Schlecht. (2n = 28). Taxonomic observations are briefly discussed. 
4180212| The vegetation of the new Rozko reservoir near esk Skalice, East Bohemia, Czechoslovakia, was studied in the period of filling and during the following five years. It was rather unstable and showed pronounced dynamics particularly in hydrophytes. The trends of vegetation development seem to be common for most new shallow reservoirs in Central Europe and the northern part of East Europe. A number of submerged macrophytes grew at unusual depths and their production was very high in newly filled reservoirs. The survival of trees and herbs and their reaction to long-term flooding (adventitious root formation) are discussed in the paper as well as the vegetation development of both permanently and periodically emerged shores. 
25130305|The pine forest with an undergrowth of fruticose lichens - Cladonio rangiferinae-Pinetum sylvestris (Kobenza 1930) em. Passarge 1956 from the protected landscape area Kivokltsko in Central Bohemia is described. The Cladonio-Pinetum comprises a permanent pine forest community occurring naturally on a hard base and nutrient deficient siliceous rocks in the semiconvex parts of the steep slopes of narrow side-valleys of the Berounka river. The soil type of this community is dystrophic ranker. The phytosociological composition of the Cladonio-Pinetum is documented by the table of relevs, the habitat by chemical analyses of the soil. /// Aus dem Landschaftsschutzgebiet Kivokltsko in Mittelbhmen wird der natrliche Flechten-Kiefernwald - das Cladonio rangiferinae-Pinetum sylvestris Kobenza 1930 em. Passarge 1956 - beschrieben, das in das Cladonio-Pinion Passarge and Hofmann 1968 bzw. in den breit gefassten Verband Dicrano-Pinion Matuszkiewicz 1962 angeordnet werden kann. Diese Assoziation ist aus der Tschechischen Republik bisher nicht bekannt geworden. Sie stellt eine edaphisch und lokalklimatisch bedingte Dauergesellschaft dar, die auf Sonderstandorten der Nebentler der Berounka im nordwestlichen Teil des Untersuchungsgebietes vorkommt. Ihre Bestnde sind an mineralarme dysgeogene Gesteine (Quarzitschiefer, Palorhyolith) mit wenig entwickelten, rankerartigen Bden (dystropher Ranker) gebunden und stocken von Natur aus rtlich und kleinflchig auf Hagerhngen und luvseitigen Hangrndern. Die phytoznologische Zusammensetzung sowie die kologischen Bedingungen des Cladonio-Pinetum werden angegeben und durch die Aufnahmetabelle und die Analysenergebnisse von Bodenuntersuchungen belegt. Den kologischen Unterschieden entsprechend kommen in dem Untersuchungsgebiet zwei Ausbildungen des Cladonio-Pinetum vor. Die artenreichere Tannen-Ausbildung ist fr die luftfeuchten Oberhangstandorte der eingeschnittenen, nebelreichen Inversionstler (z. B. der Bachtler Javornice, Tytersk und Slabeck potok) bezeichnend, whrend die krautarme astmoos-freie Flechten-Ausbildung an die ausgehagerten Felsenrcken in breiteren Teilen des Tales des Zbirosk potok gebunden ist. In der Bodenschicht der Tannen-Ausbildung kommen zerstreut subatlantische Arten, wie Dicranum spurium und Cladonia portentosa, vor. Die Lokalitt von Cladonia portentosa wird als neu fr dieses Gebiet festgestellt (s. Pit 1982).
4179578| The present paper gives an account of the archaeobotanical results of charcoal investigations from the lower valley of the river Ohe (Bohemia). According to the analysis the primal vegetation may be the alliance Carpinion betuli. 
4180862| A profile of a carbonate fen sediment coming from the vicinity of the village Hozelec (3 km SE of Poprad - High Tatra, in the Poprad Basin) was elaborated using pollen analysis. The Late Glacial and Early Holocene Periods were recorded in detail. Due to low pollen frequency and damaged pollen grains, the vegetation development in the Middle and Late Holocene Periods was recorded only in fragments. The estimated age of the samples, i.e. Allerd, Pre-Boreal/Boreal and Boreal/Atlantic Period, was supported by radiocarbon (C-14) dating. The results represent an objective proof of the reafforestation of the area under study by stands of Larix, Pinus cembra and P. sylvestris, at the end of the last Glacial Period as early as Older Dryas (Early Weichselian). The maximum development of the Larix stands took place in Allerd. The early emergence of Picea between the Younger Dryas (Late Weichselian) and Pre-Boreal Periods points to the existence of glacial refugia of this tree in the neighbourhood. Finds of the conches of molluscs were also determined. A survey of the results of pollen analyses from other pollenanalytically and macroscopically elaborated localities in the north-western part of the Carpathians is presented. 
4180239| The first part of the study gives a survey and brief phytocenological evaluation of the grassland stands in the environs of the village Chvaletice and of the town Pelou in the southeastern part of the Labe lowlands (central and eastern Bohemia, Czechoslovakia). On the basis of the relev materials acquired in 1974, 18 associations with their subordinate units were characterized by means of the method of the Zrich-Montpellier school. For the first time a record is published of the association Holcetum lanati Gams 1927 from Czechoslovakia. The following new syntaxa are described: Holcetum lanati cirsietosum cani, Holcetum lanati arrhenatheretosum elatioris, Cerastio arvensi-Festucetum trachyphyllae, Cerastio arvensi-Festucetum trachyphyllae trifolietosum pratensis, and Cerastio arvensi-Festucetum trachyphyllae armerietosum elongatae. 
4180455|Up till now 22 plant associations of springs and mountain brooks are known in Czechoslovakia. They can be arranged in 6 alliances: Cardaminion amarae, Cardamino-Montion, Swertio-Anisothecion squarrosi, Cratoneuro filicini-Calthion laetae, Cratoneurion commutati and Lycopo-Cratoneurion. Three alliances, two associations and one subassociation are described as new ones, three associations are renamed.
4181058|A demographic study of post-fire revegetation in a clonal shrub Lycium barbarum is presented. Spontaneous development of the sprout population was estimated using both nondestructive and destructive methods and compared to the data from experimentally thinned plots. Relationships between growth parameters (height, biomass, leaf area) and their changes in the course of development are analysed. Description of the seasonal dynamics of the sprout population is given. Intraclonal competition among individual sprouts was observed. Results of the growth analysis are presented for populations of different age.
4180085|Phragmites communis Trin., a highly polymorphous and widely spread species has been described by several authors by the series of polyploidy ranging from triploid to octoploid forms (2n = 36 to 96). The original spontaneous diploid form was not known. The present communication describes the experimental transplantation of a dwarf saline form into freshwater substrate conditions, including a new and extremely changed habitus of a sterile plant, the chromosome number of which has been determined as 2n = 24.
4180482|Three new genera are described: Drymochloa (aff. Festuca), Eriophorella (aff. Eriophorum and Baeothryon), Poenosedum (aff. Sedum). Four new nomenclatural combinations are proposed for their species.
4179447| 22 species or forms of flagellates, observed in nature in Czechoslovakia and Poland, are pictured and described in the present paper. They belong to four classes: Chrysophyceae (2), Chlorophyceae (1), Cryptophyceae (9), and Dinophyceae (10). They were nearly all identified with the existing taxa; some names are suggested as synonyms, some new nomenclature combinations are put forward. One new species, Chilomonas bacillaris sp. n., has been established. /// Chrysophyceae. Die Art Pseudopedinella elastica Skuja wurde in Polen gefunden. Da zwischen den Gattungen Pedinella Vysocki und Pseudopedinella N. Carter keiner deutlicher Unterschied besteht, wird vorgeschlagen nur eine einzige Gattung, u.zw. Pedinella Vysocki, anzuerkennen; die diesbezglichen nomenklatorischen Kombinationen wurden durchgefhrt. Die Zoosporen von Phaeaster vesiculiferus (Skuja)Bourr. wurden in zwei Torfmooren in Bhmen studiert. Chlorophyceae. Die aus der Tschechoslowakei beschriebene Art Platymonas bichlora H. Ettl et O. Ettl, wurde auf zwei bhmischen Lokalitten neuerdings gefunden. Cryptophyceae. Bei der Gattung Chilomonas Ehrenb. wurden zwei neue Kombinationen vorgeschlagen: C. oblonga Pascher f. minor (Czosn.) c.n. und C. insignis (Skuja) c.n. Es wird eine neue Art C. bacillaris sp. n. beschrieben; sie ist mit der Art C. oblonga Pascher verwandt, unterscheidet sich jedoch von derselben durch die zylindrishce Form der Zelle und durch noch kleinere Dimensionen als die der C. oblonga f. minor. Weiters wurde die Art Cryptochrysis pochmannii Huber-Pest. determiniert; als diakritische Merkmale fr diese Art wurde die Nichtanwesenheit des rechten Schalenpyrenoids und dagegen die Anwesenheit des Maupaskrpers angesehen. Fr den gewhnlichen, unter einige Namen bekannten kleinen Flagellaten, wird die nomenklatorische Kombination Rhodomonas pusilla (Bachmann) c.n. vorgeschlagen. Zwei neue beachtenswerte Funde von Arten der Gattung Cryptomonas Ehrenb. werden angefhrt, u.zw. C. obovata Skuja und C. lobata Kor. Weiter wird vorgeschlagen die Art C. procera Schiller nur als eine Form der Art C. pyrenoidifera Geitler zu betrachten. Die gewhnliche, sehr variable Cryptomonas-Art wurde, nach der bereits vergessenen Beschreibung, mit der Art C. cylindrica Ehrenb. identifiziert. Dinophyceae. Sechs Artennamen der Gattung Amphidinium Clap. et Lachm. werden als Synonyma der Art A. larvale Lindem. angesehen. Diese variable Art kommt gewhnlich als farblose, selten auch als autotrophe Form vor. Gymnodinium triceratium Skuja wurde auf einer Lokalitt in Bhmen studiert. Die aus einem Aquarium beschriebene Art G. lantzschii Uterm. var. rhinophoron Javorn., wurde in einer Klranlage neuerdings gefunden. Ein andere verbreiteter Dinoflagellat wird mit der unvollkommen beschriebenen Art G. wawrikae Schiller identifiziert. Weiters wurden drei Verterter der Gattung Woloszynskia Thompson studiert, u.zw. W. coronata (Wolosz.) Thomp. var. glabra Wolosz., W. neglecta (Schilling) Thomp. und W. mira (Uterm.) Kiselev. Die morphologische Variabilitt der beiden allgemein bekannten Arten Katodinium vorticella (Stein) Fott und Gyrodinium hyalinum (Schilling) Kof. et Swezy wird angefhrt. Die Art Katodinium tetragonops (Harris) Fott wurde nach einem Teil der Harris'schen Typusfigur genauer bestimmt. 
4180041| Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit zwei, die Vegetation felsiger vulkanischer Substrate einschliessenden Verbnden: Alysso-Festucion pallentis Moravec 1967 und Festucion valesiacae Klika 1933, in deren Rahmen acht Assoziationen untersucht wurden: Alysso-Festucetum Klika ex eovsk 1949, Asperulo-Festucetum Preis in Klika 1939, Allio-Sedetum Klika 1939, Melico-Sempervivetum Preis in Klika 1939, Alysso-Potentilletum Preis 1939, Carici-Festucetum Klika 1951, Erysimo-Festucetum Klika 1933 und Festuco-Stipetum Sillinger 1931. Im kologischen Abschnitt wurde auf den Vergleich von chemischen Eigenschaften der Bden (Aziditt und ihr Saisonverlauf, Gehalt an Austauschionen -
4179500| Diese Studie behandelt die Benennung von Pflanzenarealen und bringt ebenso Vorschlge fr die Bildung der Arealformeln als einer gekrzten Ausdrucksweise der Arealbenennungen (mit Beispielen). Die vorgeschlagenen Benennungen fr Areale und Arealtypen werden in einem Verzeichnis zusammengefasst. Weiter enthlt diese Arbeit auch ein Verzeichnis von in der phytogeographischen Literatur verwendeten Synonymen, mit Angabe der Termini, die dem vorgelegten Vorschlag fr die Bildung einer arealonomischen Terminologie entsprechen. Im weiteren wird versucht, eine systematische bersicht von Arealtypen aufzustellen. Es folgt eine Aufzhlung von Ortanten, Migranten, Migratoren und europischen Florenelementen, bzw. Florensubelementen. /// The study deals with the formation of terms for the areas of the taxa. For this purpose the authors start from the names of the vegetation zones (subzones). The dislocation of the zones and subzones is indicated on map 1. For the denomination of geographically not extensive areas terms can be used which are derived from the designation of the geographic region (regions) in which the area is situated. A constituent part of the terms of many areas is the expression of their relation to the geographic oceanity or continentality. In both cases we can distinguish several degrees of these relations, three degrees in the area of Europe being indicated on maps 2 and 3. If the occurrence of the taxon is limited to the mountain region the use of the term "oreo-" is recommended; this term is put before the designation of the region in which the occurrence of the taxon is limited only to the mountains. For the designation of wide areas, which occupy more than two vegetation zones (subzones), the term "eury-" is put at the beginning of the designation; after this term only the names of the border-zones (subzones) are given. If the area extends from one zone (subzone, region) into part of an adjoining zone (zones, subzone, region), the designation "-pen-" should be used, after which the name of the zone (subzone, region) into which the area extends is given. To the geographic designation of areas closely limited to the coast regions of the ocean (sea) the term "aegialophytic" is appended. The terms of the areas can be usefully abbreviated by means of the area formulas, which are composed of the abbreviations of the designations of the vegetation zone (subzone), of the oceanity and continentality, of the vertical distribution and of the location at the ocean (sea). This basis of the area formula is completed with the abbreviations of the geographic names of the regions in which the are of the taxon is situated. The study also includes the alphabetical enumeration of the terms of areatypes (areas). For every term the Latin equivalent is given, the geographic delimitation and examples with references to the maps of distribution published in the literature. At the end of the text on the areatype (area) the area formula is added. An enumeration of some synonyms of the areas (areatypes) with the equivalent terms according to the proposed method of the designation of areas is then given. The study also includes a systematic survey of the areatypes, which are classified in classes and circles of areatypes; and finally the enumerations of terms for the designation of the ortants, migrants, migrators and floristic elements (for the area of Europe) are given. 
4179763| Taxonomy and distribution of Parietaria serbica Pan., P. lusitanica L., P. micrantha Lebed. and P. mauritanica Dur. is briefly discussed. P. serbica is an endemic species of SE. Europe and is related to P. judaica Strand in L. P. lusitanica is divided into two subspecies. P. micrantha is treated as a variety of P. lusitanica subsp. chersonensis (Lang) Chrtek. P. mauritanica is reported as a new species for Sicily. 
4179471|It is evident that some higher syntaxonomic unit above the classes is needed. The "circle of vegetation", proposed by Braun-Blanquet is a geographical, not a synecological unit; the "formation", recommended recently by Passarge, is based on physiognomy and therefore inconsistent with the principles of lower entities. The "division" proposed recently by Jakucs seems to be identical with the "type of vegetation", published already 11 years ago by the present author.
4181222| The distribution, total frequency of occurrence, regional differences and habitat conditions of diploid and triploid Butomus umbellatus L. were studied in the Czech and Slovak Republics. Triploids are more frequent than diploids, with numerous localities in warm lowland regions in river floodplains. Diploids were found primarily in the South Bohemian Tebo basin, outside the warm regions. The two cytotypes do not differ in dependence on water depth. Triploids occur more in habitats with more alkaline and base-rich soils. Considering the total distribution of both cytotypes in the area studied, triploid B. umbellatus appears to be more successful than its diploid progenitor, owing to its wider habitat range and superiority in vegetative reproduction. 
4181546| Heathland vegetation of northern Spain, included in the Calluno-Ulicetea, was studied using a set of 802 phytosociological relevs. The existing syntaxonomy has been tested and most of the types (associations and subassociations) fit satisfactorily with the observed groupings. Two main problems were encountered within the Ulex dominated communities of the Cantabrian fringe and the Castilian-Cantabrian heathland communities. Both groups of communities were subject to ordination in order to clarify relationships between them. For the former group, ordination suggests that three associations can be distinguished: the Ulici-Ericetum vagantis (lowlands up to the submontane belt), the Vaccinio-Ulicetum gallii for the communities of higher altitudes (montane belt) and the Ulici-Ericetum ciliaris (hygrophilous heathlands). The Castilian-Cantabrian heathlands show a variable Mediterranean influence and have a dispersed distribution due to lithological conditions. This results in the distinction of two new associations, viz. the Arctostaphylo crassifoliae-Daboecietum cantabricae (marly, water-retaining soils) and the Ericetum scopario-vagantis (sandy soils). A complete classification of the Calluno-Ulicetea in the studied area and short ecological and biogeographical diagnoses are given. 
4179570| Lotus krylovii Schischk. et Serg. und L. corniculatus L. subsp. frondosus Freyn sind zwei unterschiedliche Taxa, gekennzeichnet durch einige morphologische Merkmale. L. krylovii ist am nchsten mit L. tenuis Waldst. et Kit. verwandt; L. corniculatus subsp. frondosus gehrt in den Umkreis der Unterart von L. corniculatus L., die im stlichen Teil des Areals der Art verbreitet ist. Nach ihrer Haupt-Verbreitung gehren die beiden Taxa zu den westasiatischen Arten. /// As a result of the study of various herbaria, particularly of the original sheet of L. corniculatus L. subsp. frondosus Freyn, of the plants L. krylovii Schischk. et Serg. from the published labels (Kuprijanova 1949) and of the two plants from Sergievskaja it has been found that these two taxa cannot be considered as identical (the names are not synonyma) as has been done in some papers. The two taxa differ from each other by some morphological features, particularly in the form of the laeflets, in the form and colour of the flowers. In L. corniculatus L. subsp. frondosus all the leaflets on the same leaf are of much the same shape, oblong to oblong-ovate or oblong obovate; the calyx teeth are broader,  as long as the calyx tube, and the corolla is yellow. In L. krylovii the leaflets have different shape, as is usual in the group of L. corniculatus L.; the upper three leaflets are lanceolate to narrowly lanceolate, the lower two being broader and shorter; the calyx teeth are norrower, longer than the calyx tube and the corolla has a purple standard. L. corniculatus subsp. frondosus does not differ from other forms of L. corniculatus L. in any other important feature than in the same form of the leaflets composing one leaf. L. krylovii differs from L. corniculatus in several important features. According to the main distribution, both taxa belong to West-Asiatic elements, L. krylovii with a part of the area reaching East-Europe. L. corniculatus L. subsp. frondosus Freyn is distributed in Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and USSR, L. krylovii Schischk. et Serg. in Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan and USSR. 
4181349| Permanent plots with a fine scale recording system were used to trace the spatiotemporal process within two mountain grasslands in the Krkonoe Mts., Czech Republic. The analysis used autocorrelation over increasing lags in space and/or time. Moran's I was used to measure the autocorrelation. There was a lot of variation between species both in spatial and temporal correlograms. The spatiotemporal pattern of species correlated well with the growth form of the species and the degree of its clonality. Clonally-growing species tended to have high clumping at distances of a few cells, whereas rosette species often did not show any clumping. The type of clonal growth (compact vs. long spacers) is well correlated with the temporal correlogram (species mobility). There is a relation between low mobility and high clumping at low distances. Attempts to explain the mechanisms of species coexistence in these grasslands should take into account the particular structure of the fine-scale dynamics of these communities of predominantly clonal plants. 
4179962|Transpiration rate in four types of alluvial meadows has been studied. Water wapour output of different grassland communities seems to be proportional to their biomass, bearing no relation to the species composition even though transpiration of individual species differed considerably. The relation between the above-ground biomass and the daily transpiration has been ascertained for wet, mesophytic and dry grassland and seems to be constant under similar sets of environmental conditions. The coefficient for estimating the daily transpiration in meadows from their biomass is presented.
4180466|A survey of homonyms in the genus Taraxacum is given. 10 new names are proposed (partly as a result of collaboration with the authors of illegitimate names.), 8 other homonyms are listed. Homonyms which were recorded previously in the literature (or names that were substituted by new names) are only briefly mentioned.
4181134|The division of the species Stachys recta into four subspecies is proposed. Besides the nominate subspecies, subsp. grandiflora (Caruel) Arcangeli, subsp. subcrenata (Vis.) Briq. and the newly combined S. recta subsp. rhodopaea (Vel.) Chrtek jun. are described. The last subspecies differs from the others mainly by the calyx shape (infundibular here) and by the calyx teeth which are about as long as the tube. It is distributed in Macedonia and Bulgaria. A determination key to the species of the S. recta group is provided.
4181465|Ploidy levels of 8 taxa of the genus Hieracium subgenus Pilosella collected from the same locality were determined by means of flow cytometric estimation of relative nuclear DNA content. The DNA analysis of isolated nuclei stained with propidium iodide was performed with a flow cytometer equipped with an argon-ion laser. The diploid species H. lactucella (2n=18) was used as internal standard. As a rule 20 individuals per taxon were analysed. The flow cytometric analysis proved to be a rapid, accurate and sensitive method for screening of ploidy levels. Considering the known cytological data, the following ploidy levels were determined: H. aurantiacum 4x, H. pilosella 4x, H. piloselloides 4x, H. bauhini 5x, H. caespitosum 5x, H. stoloniflorum 4x, H. brachiatum 4x and 6x, H. leptophyton 7x. H. piloselloides, H. bauhini and H. caespitosum yield relative DNA contents which are the exact multiples of the haploid DNA content of H. lactucella. In the case of H. pilosella the haploid DNA content is lower than that predicted from the diploid, namely 0.43 instead of the expected 0.5. The haploid 1x DNA contents of both H. brachiatum and H. leptophyton range between the value found for H. pilosella and those for the other investigated species, confirming their hybrid origin.
4179426| Menyanthes trifoliata ist in der Tschechoslowakei verbreitet, zumeist in den Herzynischen und Sudetischen Bezirken, in der Hhe von (100) 350-650 (1200 m) . M. Ihre kologie wurde krzlich diskutiert. /// The map of distribution of this species in Czechoslovakia was prepared from the literature, herbaria, manuscripts and oral information of many Czechoslovak botanists and from our own observations. M. trifoliata has ist optimum in the alliances Caricion fuscae and Cicution virosae, on mesotrophic, mostly organogen sediments. In Czechoslovakia it has a wide vertical distribution, from 100 m above sea level to about 1200 m, but mainly at 350-650 m. It is distributed chiefly in the regions Hercynicum and Sudeticum (about 80% from 1000 localities); it is scattered both in the Pannonicum (10%) and in the Carpaticum (10%). The causes of its absence in several parts of the Carpathians are not yet clear. Menyanthes was found subfossil in the sediments of Mindel-Riss, Riss-Wrm, Wrm and Holocaen. It is probable that it survived the whole Ice Age in Czechoslovakia. 
4179805|Acremoniella atra auct. is taxonomically identical with Harzia acremonioides (Harz) Cost. which is the type of the genus Harzia. Harzia Cost. 1888 must replace the illegitimate name Acremoniella Sacc. 1886. Two new combinations - Harzia velata (Onions et Jones) Hol.-Jech. and Harzia verrucosa (Togn.) Hol.-Jech. are proposed.
4179418| Die Gesellschaften der Kleinseggen-Moorwiesen auf kalkhaltigen Quellstellen mit vorherrschender Carex davalliana wurden meistens in die einzige Assoziation - Caricetum davallianae - zusammengefasst. Auf Grund ihrer vergleichenden floristischen Analyse und ihrer geographischen und kologischen Gesetzmssigkeiten gliedert der Autor die Carex davalliana-Gesellschaften in fnf nachfolgende Assoziationen, u. zw. in das pyrenische Pediculari (silvaticae)-Caricetum davallianae, in das alpische Caricetum davallianae (s. str.), in das karpatische Valeriano simplicifoliae-Caricetum davallianae, in das Valeriano dioicae-Caricetum davallianae der Tiefebenen und niedrigerer Gebirge Mitteleuropas und in das mssig azidophile Caricetum davalliano-demissae. /// The Carex davalliana-communities that occur in the vicinity of calcareous springs and in anmoor meadows in Central Europe with detached occurrence in the Pyrenees and the Alpes Maritimes have up to now been united in one single association called Caricetum davallianae, distributed from the Pyrenees to the Western Carpathians and Hungarian Lowland and vertically occurring from lowland (100 m. above sea level) up to the alpine zone (2220 m.). However, floristic differences as well as the geographical and ecological relationships of the Carex davalliana-communities make it possible to distinguish five associations. Three associations are bound to the European mountains and are indicated by the simultaneous occurrence of Primula farinosa, Tofieldia calyculata, and Eleocharis quinqueflora: 1. Pediculari (silvaticae)-Caricetum davallianae is differentiated from the other two associations first of all by Primula integrifolia, Pedicularis mixta, and Selinum pyrenaeum. It occurs exclusively in the alpine zone of the Pyrenees. 2. Caricetum davallianae (s. str.) is characterized by several mountain to alpine species, e.g. Ballidiastrum michelii, Bartsia alpina, and Pinguicula alpina. It occurs in the territory of the Alps mostly at altitudes from 1000 to 2000 m.; it descends, however, also into the adjacent highlands as impoverished forms characterized only by Primula farinosa, Tofieldia calyculata, and Eleocharis quinqueflora. 3. Valeriano simplicifoliae-Caricetum davallianae is distributed over the Western Carpathians. From both the foregoing associations it is differentiated first of all by Valeriana simplicifolia and further by Galium vernum and Polygala amara ssp. brachyptera as differential species. The impoverished stands of this association are very similar to the impoverished stands of the alpine Caricetum davallianae. The further two associations occur in lower highlands and in lowlands of Central Europe. From the foregoing three associations they are differentiated by the absence of Primula farinosa, Tofieldia calyculata, and Eleocharis quinqueflora. There are the following associations: 4. Valeriano dioicae-Caricetum davallianae, characterized by higher occurrence constancy of Valeriana dioica and Caltha palustris; these species, however, cannot be considered as characteristic species. This association is distributed from the Eifel Mountains in Western Germany to the Hungarian Lowland at altitudes from 100 to 850 m. 5. Caricetum davalliano-demissae is differentiated from the foregoing association by a richer set of species of the order Caricetalia fuscae and the alliance Caricion fuscae, e.g. Carex stellulata, C. demissa, Juncus acutiflorus, J. bulbosus, Drosera rotundifolia, Sphagnum subsecundum, and S. recurvum; it represents therefore a member of the ecological series between the Valeriano dioicae-Caricetum davallianae and the acidophilous sedge-communities of the Caricion fuscae. At present this association is known only in the Schwarzwald Mountains. Within the associations those subassociations are mentioned which are of a more general validity. Moreover, those grounds have been discussed that were decisive in the syntaxonomical conception of particular associations and in the evaluation of the significance of particular species for the definition and delimitation of these associations. There follow several more general conclusions from this study concerning the classification of plant communities of particular units or group of related units in the whole area of distribution. 1. Units defined only on the basis of a few or only one characteristic species may be rather heterogeneous from both the floristic and the ecological point of view. Therefore it is advisable to consider the more important floristic differences of plant communities, of geographical origin, as differences of independent associations, especially if these units are geographically isolated. This evaluation is also supported by differences in the floristic composition of units caused by the fixation of the plant community in a pattern of plant communities which is characteristic for a particular territory. 2. The importance of a species for classification depends on the question of whether its occurrence in the community being studied lies in the range of its life prosperity or whether its prosperity is reduced and its occurrence in the community is conditioned only by penetration from surrounding communities. In evaluating the classificatory importance of a species (or several species) of lower constancy it ought be taken into consideration whether the probability of its occurrence is the same in all stands of the unit characterized by it, or whether in some stands this probability is lower or even nonexistent. Only where the occurrence probability of a species is equal for all stands included in the unit characterized by this species, even if it is not in all cases realized, is it possible to use the considered species for characterizing the unit. In this unit it is then possible to classify also stands where the characterizing species is absent but in which the occurrence probability of this species is the same as in the other stands of the unit. 3. The convergence phenomena can occur in stands of closely related units impoverished by species that differentiate the considered units. Such stands are nearly equal in their floristic composition but it is impossible to put them into the same unit because of differences in other characters than in the floristic composition. In such cases the occurrence probability of species characterizing the unit in the stands is to be judged. Only those impoverished stands may be put into one unit in which the occurrence probability of the species characterizing the unit the same is as in the normal stands. 4. The differentiation of closely related associations should be made from two standpoints: a) from the standpoint of the absolute relationships in the whole area of the group of related associations, b) from the standpoint of the relative relationships of association in a particular limited territory. The groups of species differentiating the related vicarious associations of different territories cannot be used in many cases for distinguishing these associations from closely related associations in one particular territory. In such cases a group of species which is usually common in all vicarious associations as well as specific for them must be used to differentiate associations. This group of species also expresses the specific environmental conditions of the considered group of vicarious associations. 
4180989|In the course of three years' investigations (1983-1986) of Lake Volvi, N Greece, 62 species and varieties of chlorococcal algae and 6 species of ulotrichal algae (Chlorophyceae) were found. Although chlorophytes form the largest group of the phytoplankton assemblages of the lake, their biomass is relatively small or even negligeable in some periods of the year in comparison with domination cyanophytes, diatoms and cryptophytes. Morphological variation of diagnostic features is described and documented by original drawings in 53 taxa.
4179780|A new species of the genus Tragopogon (T. kurdistanicum) has been described from Iraq.
4181272|A review is presented of various ecological and population aspects of Taraxacum agamospermy. Agamospermy is compared with vegetative clonality, the former differing in capability to generate variation, seed dispersal and often long evolutionary history. Clonal diversity of agamospermous taxa ranges from almost absolute uniclonality to high diversity of clones. Multiclonality is suggested to represent one of agamospecies' population characteristics. Biological individuality of clones allows coexistence of clones at a locality. Competition and other factors influencing number of clones at a locality are discussed. Geographical and ecological distributions of agamospermous and sexual Taraxacum taxa are evaluated, their coexistence and gene flow are addressed, and a hypothesis is presented concerning the population condition in mixed stands of sexual and asexual Taraxaca. Lastly, agamospermy is shown to significantly reduce recombination processes; it should not be considered an absolute evolutionary "blind alley".
4180690|The composition of volatile oils produced by Euphorbia fragifera is reported. The plant samples were collected in two different habitats on the Karst plateau North of Trieste (North Eastern Italy). The analysis was performed by capillary GC. Differences between samples from the two habitats have been found in the quantitative composition of the oils. The plants coming from the optimal, xeric habitat produce oils in which aromatic terpenes (mostly carvacrol) are more abundant, whereas the oils of plants growing in shady and moist sites are mostly composed by acyclic compounds (chiefly geraniol). It seems therefore possible to distinguish two chemical variants of Euphorbia fragifera. The number and kind of pollinating insects have been recorded. Terpenoids from the two kinds of essential oil could be responsible of two different pheromones that attract different kinds of pollinators.
4181487|The population dynamics of Taraxacum serotinum (Waldst. et Kit.) Poir. were studied in two stands of a loess grassland community (Salvio-Festucetum rupicolae). The two stands differed in their previous management: one of them had been grazed by sheep and the other had been mown before the start of the study. The fate of every rosette of Taraxacum was followed in an area of 75 m
4180439|Starting from the significance of the leaf surface for synmorphology, synecology, herbivory, decomposition and other use values, the leaf shape and size, consistency and seasonality have been surveyed in some forest and nonforested Central European communities. In both the individual species and the plant communities, the leaf size and shape are linearly correlated with mineral nutrient supply and, to some extent, also by soil moisture, both factors having been evaluated according to the importance value for each indicator species. Leaf consistency and periodicity tend to coincide with the moisture gradient. Noteworthy is the smoothing influence of the forest canopy on the representation of various leaf categories in comparison with nonforested communities. No correlation was found between the light factor and the representation of leaf graminoid types.
4179722| Eine neue syntaxonomische Klassifizierung der nitrophilen Gesellschaften ein- bis zweijhriger Arten der Klasse Galio-Urticetea Passarge 67 em. Kopeck 69 wird vorgeschlagen. Sie ermglicht eine Einreihung der Mehrzahl von in der Natur existierenden Gesellschaften in das phytoznologische System, wobei maximale Rcksicht auf ihre innere Dynamik und ihre syngenetische Beziehungen genommen wird. /// Differences in development and distribution of communities of annual and biennial plants belonging to the class Galio-Urticetea are clearly manifested by the various degree of syntaxonomic differentiation of their individual stands. A considerable number of stands encountered in nature cannot be classed within any of the associations described in the sense of Zrich-Montpellier School, and can be classified - according to their species composition - merely within the broad limits of a certain alliance, order, or class. We assume, however, that these stands lacking association rank can also be satisfactorily included in the phytocenological system provided that the syngenetic relations and internal dynamics of the stands are taken into account. The theoretical principles of the syntaxonomic classification used here, together with the general nomenclature of newly defined cenological units, have been explained in detail in an earlier paper (see Kopeck et Hejn 1971). In accordance with this conception, communities of annual and biennial plants which Central European phytocenologists place in the alliance Galio-Alliarion (within Galio-Urticetea), could be classified into units of the following categories: 1. Sociologically saturated associations, i.e. those containing a complete hierarchy of character and differentiating species of the superior syntaxa, including the association character species. 2. Basal communities belonging to no association, i.e. the communities situated within the limits of a class (order, or alliance), and showing a low degree of syntaxonomic differentiation; they consist of the character and differentiating species of higher syntaxa, together with the respective companion species. 3. Derivative communities without any association rank, i.e. communities consisting of character and differentiating species of higher syntaxa (within the limits of the respective class), and furthermore, of companion and character species by which the higher degree of ecological specialization of stands is determined. The ecological and cenological range of species of derivative communities is distinctly wider than that of character species of associations; however, it is narrower than in species of which the basal communities consist. Among the typical character species of derivative communities one encounters plants which have been stimulated - by various human activities - to spread intensively over biotopes of a particular set of cenoses in a certain region, and which have gradually occupied the area (e.g. apophytes and neophytes, such as Torilis japonica, Impatiens parviflora, etc.), while the less competitive native species have been suppressed. 4. The phase of the community is marked by the temporary predominance of a certain species in the stand of the association, both of the basal and derivative communities. It manifests changes in the stand's sociological structure and indicates developmental trends in its syngenesis. Besides various external disturbing factors, the replacing of dominant species in individual community phases is caused mainly by competition. A survey of distinct vegetation units, their brief characterization and species composition are given in Tab. 2-5. 
4180278| Behandelt werden: Vegetationskundliche Probeflchenwahl auf Waldschlgen, Biologie und Coenologie diagnostisch wichtiger Schlagpflanzen, Therophyten-reiche Pionierfluren mit Rumex acetosella, Senecio sylvaticus und Galeopsis-Arten (Tab. 1-3), Syntaxonomie der Vegetationseinheiten (s. S. 285). /// The paper deals with sample areas (relev) of woodland-cuts, biology and coenology of essential cut-species, initial communities rich in therophyts with Rumex acetosella, Senecio sylvaticus and Galeopsis (tabl. 1-3), syntaxonomy of vegetation units (pp. 287). 
4179468| Es sind die Ergebnisse der Stoffproduktion-Analysen von Phalaris arundinacea-Bestnden im Hinblick auf die hydrologischen Bedingungen der Jahre 1965 und 1966 angegeben. Die Analysen wurden auf den Standorten dreier Stufen der Orlice-Flussaue (NO-Bhmen) durchgefhrt, die sich von einander durch die Dauer der berflutung, der Hhe der Hochwassersule sowie durch den Verlauf des Erosions-Akkumulationsprozesses unterscheiden. In der Zeit vom 1. IV. bis 30. VI. 1965 war die untere Stufe der Flussaue (Zone I) whrend 91 Tagen, die mittlere Stufe der Flussaue (Zone II) whrend 55 Tagen und die obere Stufe der Flussaue (Zone III) whrend 20 Tagen berflutet. Mitte Juli 1965 betrug die oberirdische Nettoproduktion in der Zone
4180443| A list including 114 selected subspecies names from the book Schbler and Martens, Flora von Wrtemberg, 1834 is given. Twenty of them are very important for the present taxonomic classification. 
4179487| The paper summarizes the results of the palaeoecological study of one profile of the Blto mire, situated in southeastern Bohemia (Czechoslovakia). The authors evaluate their finds and endeavour to present a phytocenological picture of the composition and succession of peat-forming communities from the Allerd Period onwards. /// In dieser Arbeit werden Ergebnisse einer palogeobotanischen Forschung vorgelegt, die die Verfasser auf dem Moore unweit der Ortschaft Blto (frher ipachy) bei der Stadt Nov Bystice in Sdbhmen (Tschechoslowakei) vorgenommen haben. Es wird hier versucht, die Rekonstruktion der torfbildenden Gesellschaften des Lagers vom Allerd an bis zum heutigen Tage vorzunehmen. Fr ihre Schlussfolgerungen bentzen die Autoren die Grossrestanalysen und Pollenanalysen der Torfsedimente. Zu diesem Zwecke wurde ausser dem karpologischen Diagramm - in welchem auch die Funde der bestimmten vegetativen Teile einbegriffen sind - auch ein spezielles Pollendiagramm aufgestellt. Dieses ist so ausgearbeitet, dass die perzentuellen Werte der von den  lokalen Produzenten stammenden Sporomorphen und die perzentuellen Werte von Produzenten mit einem Schwerpunkt in der Festlandvegetation unabhngig voneinander berechnet wurden. Vom Gesichtspunkt der historischen Phytogeographie aus sind einige Funde von Moosen (Calliergon giganteum, Helodium blandowii, Calliergon trifarium u. a.) und einiger Gefsspflanzen (wie Hippuris vulgaris, Potamogeton cf. filiformis, Stellaria cf. palustris, Montia rivularis, Salix cf. myrtilloides u. a.) interessant. Bei der Rekonstruktion gelangten die Verfasser zu dem Schluss, dass die torfbildenden Gesellschaften vom Allerd an insgesamt acht Hauptenwicklungsphasen durchgemacht haben, die gemss dem mitteleuropischen phytoznologischen System im allgemeinen folgendermassen klassifiziert werden knnen: I. Arktischer Typus der Gesellschaft der Potametalia Koch 1926 mit Potamogeton filiformis, Hippuris vulgaris usw. II. Gesellschaften, die sich dem Magnocaricion Koch 1926 - Verband nhern, in spteren Entwicklungsstadien werden sie von Elementen der Gesellschaften der Klasse Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae Nordh. ex Tx. 1937 bereichert. III. Gesellschaft mit Betula nana und Salix cf. myrtilloides. IV. Unentwickelte Bestnde mit Filipendula ulmaria und Lysimachia vulgaris. V. Phragmites- und Carex-Bestnde mit Sphagnum (dem Verband Eriophorion gracilis Prsg. apud Oberd. 1957 nahe Gesellschaften). VI. Carex lasiocarpa - Sphagnum sect. Subsecunda-Gesellschaft (Verband Eriophorion gracilis Prsg. apud Oberd. 1957). VII. Oligotrophe bis dystrophe Gesellschaften der Klasse Oxycocco-Sphagnetea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943 mit Eriophorum vaginatum und Sphagnum magellanicum. VIII. Schlussgesellschaften der vorhergehenden Phase mit Pinus silvestris-Bestnden (Klasse Vaccinio-Piceetea Br.-Bl. 1939). Der Arbeit ist eine kurze Beschreibung der Festlandvegetationsentwicklung der Umgebung des Torflagers beigeschlossen, so wie sie auf dem speziellen Pollendiagramm dargestellt ist. In dem Untersuchungsgebiet wurden einige kleinere Abweichungen von den blichen Entwicklungsschemas festgestellt, u. zw. das Vorkommen von Pollenkrnern der anspruchsvolleren Gehlze schon in den sptglazialen Schichten (Corylus, Alnus, Quercus u. a.); im Boreal wurde dann eine relativ geringere Vertretung der Corylus im Gebiet im Vergleich mit Gebieten mit mehr ozeanischem Klima in Westeuropa gefunden und ihr Hauptmaximum dann erst im Atlantikum festgelegt. Der Antritt der QM-Gehlze wurde schon im Prboreal und der der Fagus bereits im Atlantikum festgestellt. 
4179543|The meadow plant communities, Arrhenatheretum elatioris alopecuretosum pratensis R. Tx. 1937 and Mesobrometum erecti stipetosum Vicherek 1960, were chosen for investigations of the underground plant parts. Apparent differences in underground dry weight and its seasonal changes in both the communities were observed. Differences in the soil environment in different periods of the year are reflected in the character of time changes in underground dry weight. The soil environment affects not only the total underground biomass and their changes in time, but also the activity of soil microflora and, consequently, the decomposition rate of dead underground plant parts.
4181388|Populations of Luzula multiflora s.l. in Ireland were examined karyologicall. Plants from 14 populations were invariably tetraploid with 2n=24. Chromosomes of the tetraploid are of AL type (true tetraploidy). Meiosis of the tetraploids is of the same type as described for other Luzula taxa in the literature. In meiosis, 12 bivalents are regularly formed. A hypothesis based on the morphological and allozyme data, that the tetraploids are of alloploid origin, is supported by the present results. Meiosis in an artificial hybrid between the presumed parental taxa, L. campestris and L. pallidula, was studied; a certain tendency towards chromosome doubling was observed. The geographical distribution of the L. multiflora cytotypes is also discussed.
4180887|The article deals with the description of a new endemic Zornia species, the Zornia dichotoma. It was collected on a sandhill near the road connecting the town of Guane with the village of Cortes (Pinar del Rio province), not far from the classical locality of Zornia arenicola.
4181018|The biomass of epiphytic algae increased more than the biomass of phytoplankton with increased nutrient availability (N, P, Si) in four lakes. Large epiphyte biomasses on the submerged macrophyte, Littorella uniflora, reduce light attenuation more than phytoplankton did. High values of shading by epiphytes correspond with a reduction in the maximum depth penetration of Littorella by more than 1 meter.
4180436| Based on new relevs from the area of the Czech Socialist Republic, the association Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum Husov 1968 is divided into two subassociations: D.f.-A. deschampsietosum flexuosae and D. f.-A. calamagrostietosum. The species composition and variability of the association and both subassociations is given in a synoptic table. The soil properties are also added. /// Der vorliegende Beitrag befasst sich mit der Syntaxonomie der natrlichen azidophilen durch die Assoziation Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum Husov 1968 reprsentierten Hangtannenwlder der Tschechischen sozialistischen Republik. Der phytoznologischen Synthese wurde Aufnahmematerial aus verschiedenen Verbreitungsgebieten zugrundegelegt (Tab. 1). Die Angaben ber die Standortskologie des Deschampsio-Abietetum wurden durch die chemischen Analysen der Rhizosphre belegt (Tab. 2). Aufgrund der bestehenden hnlichkeit in der Artenzusammensetzung der Krautschicht und in einigen kologischen Eigenschaften des Standortes wurde die Stellung der Assoziation Deschampsio-Abietetum im Verband Luzulo-Fagion Lohm. et Tx. in Tx. 1954 besttigt (s. Husov 1968a: 166). Die forstwirtschaftliche und naturschutzliche Bedeutung natrlicher Hangtannenwlder wird zusammengefasst dargelegt. Es wird empfohlen, die gut erhaltenen Bestnde des Deschampsio-Abietetum auf erosionsexponierten Stellen als Schutzwald ohne Bewirtschaftung zu belassen. Fr die natrlichen bzw. naturnahen Bestnde des Deschampsio-Abietetum ist die lockere, durch das gegliederte Relief der Standorte bedingte Baumschicht, die sprlich entwickelte Strauchschicht mit gruppenartigem Tannenjungwuchs, die artenarme, grasartige Krautschicht und die geschlossene, ppige Moosschicht kennzeichnend. Die Physiognomie der Baumschicht wird durchwegs von Nadelhlzer bestimmt; die Tanne reprsentiert den natrlichen Hauptedifikator der Phytoznosen. Aufgrund einer Tabellen-Synthese wird das Deschampsio-Abietetum in zwei Subassoziationen so gegliedert: 1. Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum deschampsietosum flexuosae Husov subass. nova, die den feuchteren, artenrmeren Flgel der Assoziation darstellt. In der Baumschicht macht sich ausser der Tanne noch die Kiefer und in den Inversionslagen die Fichte als natrlicher Nebenbestand geltend. An der Artenzusammensetzung beteiligen sich in einer grsseren Menge anspruchslose, azidophile Arten und Sauerhumusbewohner. Der Anteil der Fagetalia- und Querco-Fagetea-Arten ist sehr gering. Die Physiognomie der Moosschicht wird vom Polytrichum formosum und Leucobryum glaucum bestimmt, die feuchtesten Ausbildungen auf exponierten Luvseiten werden mit Bazzania trilobata, Polytrichum commune, Sphagnum girgensohnii und S. quinquefarium differenziert. Diese Subassoziation weist eine enge Bindung an die luvseitigen nordwestlichen Expositionen. 2. Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum calamagrostietosum arundinaceae Husov subass. nova, die die artenreichere Subassoziation mit grsserem Anteil von Fagetalia-und Querco-Fagetea-Arten reprsentiert. Als Differentialarten knnen Stellaria holostea, Galium sylvaticum, Hepatica nobilis, Campanula rapunculoides und Lathyrus vernus angenommen werden. In der Baumschicht treten Kiefer und die natrlich vorhandene Fichte zurck. In der Moosschicht fehlen die Vertreter der feuchteren Ausbildungen der vorigen Subassoziation. Das Deschampsio-Abietetum besiedelt mittlere Lagen von 300 bis zu 450 m u. M., nur ausnahmsweise wurden die Bestandsreste in Meereshhen ber 550 m beobachtet. Der Untergrund wird von basenarmen Silikatgesteinen gebildet. Der Verbreitungsschwerpungt dieser Assoziation liegt auf luvseitigen, steilen Hngen der eingetieften Tler oder in den Taleinschnitten der Bche am Arealrand der Carpinion-Gesellschaften. Die vorherrschenden Bden des Deschampsio-Abietetum sind frischfeuchte, gut durchlftete oligotrophe Braunerden ohne Spuren der Vergleiung im Bodenprofil. Sie sind durch Sauerhumusbildung, saure Reaktion der mineralischen A-Horizonte und niedrigere Sttigung des Sorptionskomplexes mit zweiwertigen Basen gekennzeichnet. 
4181472|A review is presented of breeding peculiarities in Hypericum perforatum L. and their consequences. This species is a tetraploid hybrid (2n=4x=32) which is assumed to be allopolyploid. It is a facultative apomict with apospory and pseudogamy. Original results of chromosome number variation amongst H. perforatum regenerants are presented, and their seed offspring were studied. The results suggest that genetic diversity occurs in this taxon resulting in great phenotypic variation. Various records of natural and artificial hybridization, as published by several authors, are discussed.
4179859|Descriptions (mainly of microstructures) are given for two Japanese species: Albatrellus cantharellus (Lloyd) Pouz. and A. yasudai (Lloyd) Pouz. The former is classified, along with other amylosporous species lacking clamps on the context hyphae, as A. subrubescens (Murrill) Pouz. A. yasudai is referred to a new separate subgenus Hymenidermiger Pouz. based on the hymeniform cuticle of the pileus, which is a unique character in this genus.
4179827| The statistical method applied by Konalov (1972) to examine the frequency of some taxonomic characters is discussed and another interpretation of the data presented is proposed. 
4180858|Scanning and transmission electron microscopic studies were carried out on the pollen of the two species of Telfairia, T. pedata (Sims.) Hooker and T. occidentalis Hooker fil. Pollen grains in both species are spheroidal, tricolporate and tectate. The ectexine is finely reticulate. The tectum, foot layer and columellae are all well developed. Significant differences of taxonomic value do not exist in the structure of the pollen of the two species.
4181082| In an ecological field study, plants of Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla (Scirpus maritimus L. s. l.) growing in oligohaline and in mesohaline soils were compared. Differences between both populations mainly concerning osmotic potential, water potential and ionic concentrations could be related with the salt content at both sites, whereas transpiration and photosynthesis did not differ significantly. Water potential of the cell sap was affected by several external factors. /// In einer kologischen Freilandarbeit an der Unterweser wurden Bestnde von Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla an unterschiedlich salzhaltigen Standorten verglichen. Pflanzen des mesohalinen Standortes wiesen Blattnekrosen auf und starben aufgrund ihrer Salzakkumulation frhzeitig ab, wie sich berhaupt die Pflanzen am oligohalinen Standort deutlich vitaler zeigten. Die anatomisch-morphologische Struktur der Pflanzen beider Standorte zeigte weitestgehende bereinstimmung, ebenso die Nettophotosyntheserate und die Transpiration. Die Zellsaftkonzentration an Natrium, Chlorid, Magnesium, Kalzium und das osmotische Potential in den am mesohalinen Standort wachsenden Simsen erwies sich als deutlich erhht, das Wasserpotential hingegen erniedrigt verglichen mit der am oligohalinen Standort vorkommenden Population. Es zeigte sich, dass das Wasserpotential des Zellsaftes von unterschiedlichen usseren Faktoren beeinflusst war. Das Zellsaftpotential im mesohalinen Bestand wurde hauptschlich durch den Bodensalzgehalt bewirkt, whrend am oligohalinen Standort Tagesgang und Tiderhytmus den wesentlicheren Einfluss ausbten. Der Gehalt an Magnesium, Kalium, Kalzium im Zellsaft blieb ber die Vegetationsperiode hinweg konstant, whrend die anderen Grssen im Jahresgang schwankten. Die Untersuchung zeigte, da der fakultative Halophyt Bolboschoenus maritimus zum salzakkumulierenden Typus zhlt, und physiologisches und kologisches Optimum nicht identisch sind. 
4180639|Chromosome counts of 9 species of Taraxacum sect. Palustria are given. Five species were karyologically examined for the first time, viz. T. trilobifolium Hudziok, T. lissocarpum agg., T. paucilobum Hudziok, T. subalpinum Hudziok and T. mendax, a new pentaploid species. Taxonomic and nomenclatural notes are added.
4180658|Data are presented on the aboveground and underground biomass of the species Marsilea quadrifolia and on the water regime and soil conditions in a habitat of this species in Central Europe (Czechoslovakia).
4179701|The idea of the hybrid character of natural rose populations, esp. from the subsection Eucaninae, is put forward. The frequency of individual taxa which differs in one diacritic character was counted in a characteristic region and the numbers obtained were statistically evaluated. For the time being the results seem to testify to genetic correlation between some of the observed species.
4180130| Der Autor bewertete und emendierte die Assoziation Hordeetum murini Libbert 1932. Er analysiert und klassifiziert die Variabilitt der emendierten Assoziation, also Hordeetum murini Libbert 1932 em. Eli 1979 auf dem Gebiet der Westslowakei. Er unterschied und beschrieb einige neue Syntaxa. Die Arbeit enthlt phytoznologische Aufnahmen aus der Westslowakei und eine synthetische Tabelle. /// The author revalues the association Hordeetum murini Libbert 1932 which belongs to the alliance Bromo-Hordeion murini Hejn 1978. Libbert's original relevs are classified as new subassociation H. m. atriplicetosum hastatae Eli 1979. The variability of the association Hordeetum murini Libbert 1932 em. Eli 1979 in the Western Slovakia is analysed and classified. The following syntaxa were distinguished: H. m. typicum Tx. et Sissingh ex Sissingh 1950 out of positive differential species, H. m. brometosum sterilis Eli 1979 with Bromus sterilis as good differential species, H. m. brometosum tectorum (Gutte 1971) Eli 1979 with Bromus tectorum occuring mainly in railway areas and H. m. sisymbrietosum loeselii Eli (1977) 1979. Within the H. m. typicum two ecological variants are suggested, namely variant typicum and variant of Lolium perenne in trodden areas. Vegetation relevs recorded in Western Slovakia as well as a synthetic table are presented. 
4180527| A detailed phytocenological description of the Sclerio interruptae-Rhynchosporetum subimberbis Bal.-Tul. in Bal.-Tul. et Surli 1983 is presented. It deals with a savanna community documented for the time, by one relev only. 
4180910| The article comprises three consequent studies concerning the taxonomy of the Cuban cyanophyte/cyanobacterial microflora: (7) The "Oscillarieta" (cyanophyte mats with dominant oscillatorialean species) developing in periodical road slimes and pans in Cuba were analyzed. Phormidium cf. formosum dominated in 13 localities from 16 samples, Oscillatoria cf. annae, Phormidium ambiguum and Anabaena oblonga in the others. All other species occasionally grow in such communities. Twenty two species of cyanophytes (cyanobacteria) were found altogether in the analyzed communities. Their morphological variability is described and documented. - (8) A new species of Schmidleinema De-Toni f. 1936 (syn.: Camptylonema Schmidle 1900), S. cubanum, is described from alkaline swamps in the Zapata peninsula, prov. Matanzas, Cuba. Its morphological variation and life cycle were studied and the diacritical features of all Schmidleinema species were discussed. Schmidleinema roberti-lamii (Bourr.) comb. n., known from Guadeloupe, must be classified in this genus according to the original description. Two taxonomic recombinations are added with respect to the analyzed diacritical features: Camptylonemopsis umida (ado) comb. n. and Hapalosiphon godwardii (Prasad et Srivast.) comb. n. - (9) Three species of Chamaesiphonaceae (Chroococcales), apparently confined to the tropics, were found in Cuban creeks: Chamaesiphon africanus Schmidle, Stichosiphon sansibaricus (Hieron.) Dr. et Daily and Stichosiphon gardneri spec. n. The Cuban material made it possible to complete the descriptions and the study of the reproduction of the species involved. Stichosiphon pseudopolymorphus (Fritsch) comb. n. was recombined into the genus Stichosiphon in regard to its morphology and life cycle. 
4180542| Plant communities of forest clearings dominated by grass and grass-like species are analyzed. Their system is based on the coenological species groups. Each association is characterised from the view point of synecology, synchorology and syntaxonomy. /// Als Folgestadien der Vegetationsentwicklung nach Kahlschlag sind Waldschlagrasen in Mitteleuropa eine hufige, bisher wenig beobachtete Erscheinung. Ausgehend von den bestandbildenden Gramineae, Juncaceae und Cyperaceae werden zunchst die wichtigen coenologischen Artengruppen und ihr kologischer Zeigerwert herausgestellt. Beschrieben werden die Vegetationseinheiten der Avenella-, Festuca ovina-, Agrostis tenuis-, Festuca gigantea-, Juncus effusus-, Molinia-, sowie Bruch- und Auenwald-Schlagrasen (Tab. 1-5), unter Hinweis auf strukturelle Zusammensetzung, kleinstandrtliche Untergliederung, Standortansprche, regionale Abwandlungen, Verbreitung und Stellung in der Sukzessionsfolge. - Nach kritischer Wertung bisheriger Vorschlge zur Syntaxonomie werden die untersuchten Assoziationen und Gesellschaften in den neuen Verbnden/Ordnungen: Rumici-Avenellion, Avenello-Molinion, Rumici-Avenelletalia, Rubo-Agrostion tenuis, Cirsio-Dactylidion, Urtico-Dactylidetalia, Cirsio-Juncion effusi zusammengefasst (s. S. 377.) 
4181471|For many years several taxa belonging to the families Compositae and Rosaceae have been subjected to an intensive research on apomixis. These two families, together with the Gramineae have headed the list of the most thoroughly examined taxonomic groups in this field. At present, new methods are being elaborated and new problems solved within the following genera known to be apomictic, viz. Antennaria, Hieracium, Taraxacum, Alchemilla, Potentilla and Rubus. Many general problems still require more attention in future studies. Seven of them are considered in the present article: 1. frequency of apomixis; 2. occurrence of apospory and diplospory within one taxon; 3. nonfunctional apospory; 4. facultativeness of autonomous apomixis; 5. origin of endosperm; 6. timing of embryo and endosperm development in apomicts; 7. instability of the endosperm type. Both Compositae and Rosaceae produce suitable material for such research projects.
4180054| Die Arbeit beschreibt die synsystematische Stellung und die primren Standortsfaktoren der xerothermen Staudengesellschaften im Wallis und in angrenzender Waadt (Schweizer Zentral-Alpen). Diese Gesellschaften sind als Brachypodio pinnati-Geranion sanguinei Tx. in Mller 1962 em. van Gils et Kozlowska 1977, Brachypodietalia Korneck 1974 und Festuco-Brometea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943 klassifiziert. /// We have described the floristic composition and the primary site factors of xerothermic forb meadows and forb fringes (known as Brachypodio-Geranion, Brachypodietalia, Festuco-Brometea) in the Rhone valley in the Swiss Central Alps between Visp and Montreux. Further we have discussed the synsystematic position of these vegetations. The two associations, with their subunits, are distinguishable as follows: (a) the suboceanic Geranio-Trifolietum alpestris Mll. 1962, which only grows locally on silicateous substratum, in Ravoire (Martigny). (b) the intra-alpine Trifolio medii-Laserpitietum latifolii van Gils et Gilissen 1976; in Vaud this association has only been recorded on calcareous substratum, but in the more subcontinental Valais it grows on both calcareous and silicateous soils. The associations just mentioned are restricted to southerly exposed slopes and to altitudes varying between 750-1550 m. The stands at the lowest altitudes (750-950 m) have to be sought in a relatively humid climate (precipitation 1200 mm) or otherwise they are found on deep soils with alternating dry and humid conditions (in German: 'Wechselfeucht'). Characteristicly enough the most elevated relevs have been derived from rubble and heaps of stone in the driest part of the local Brachypodio-Geranion distribution area. Some primary Brachypodio-Geranion stands are noticeable. Most often, however, the Valaisian Brachypodio-Geranion communities have developed as forb fringe alongside present-day meadows, as a forb stadium of abandoned meadows or on road banks. The Brachypodio-Geranion communities are not resistent to intensive pasturing, annual mowing or fertilising. Other anthropogenic influences like burning, chopping of invading arboreous species and mechanical disturbance of the biogeocoenoses can influence the establishment and persistence of the Brachypodio-Geranion positively. As the last feature we have discussed the ecological significance of the polyploidy of the species, which are dominating the Brachypodio-Geranion. 
4179749| Die zweite Studie aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfam. Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) enthlt eine taxonomische Bearbeitung des Subg. Jungermannia. Nach dem Verfasser gehren zu diesem Subg. nur 7 Arten: J. atrovirens Dum. (identisch mit J. tristis Nees), J. exsertifolia Steph., J. gollanii Steph., J. karl-muelleri Grolle, J. ovato-trigona (Steph. in Herz.) Grolle, J. polaris Lindb. und J. pumila With. Die anderen, zu diesem Subg. gestellten Arten gehren teilweise zu den anderen Subgenera (J. grossitexta sensu Amak., J. kuwaharae Amak. und J. laetevirens (Spruce) K. Mll. in Grolle), teilweise als Synonyma nova zu den obenerwhnten Arten (J. nipponica (Sak. et Takah.) Hatt., J. tenerrima Steph. (hom. illeg.) und J. towadensis (Okam.) Hatt., sowie auch J. tristis Nees). /// This second study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Synonymy, description and keys to the species of the subgenus Jungermannia (genus Jungermannia). 2. Synonymy, drawings, description, type, exsiccata, ecological notes, distribution, material examined, taxonomic notes, variability and relationships of the 7 species of the subgenus Jungermannia. 3. Discussion of all infraspecific taxa on the basis of the concept of habitat modifications. From the taxonomic point of view the taxa J. karl-muelleri Grolle and J. polaris Lindb. (and naturally J. atrovirens Dum., J. exsertifolia Steph., J. gollanii Steph., J. ovato-trigona (Steph.) Grolle and J. pumila With., too) are regarded as the good species, J. cordifolia Hook. non Brothero as the subspecies and J. nipponica (Sak. et Takah.) Hatt., J. tenerrima Steph. non Raddi, J. towadensis (Okam.) Hatt. and J. tristis Nees as the habitat modifications. 
4179581|In recent years 4 species of the genus Echinodorus have been imported in large quantities to Europe from Southern Brazil, being cultivated as decorative plants in aquaria. In spite of the fact that up to now not all organs from these plants are known, they differ so greatly from the known species by character of the submersed leaves that there is no doubt that the species, in question, viz. E. osiris, E. opacus, E. horemani and E. portoalegrensis, are new.
4180008| Durch Herbar- und Literaturstudien wurden 72 Namen von Thymus-Sippen (64 Arten, 8 infraspezifische Taxa), die Ph. M. Opiz erstmalig publizierte oder auf Herbaretiketten hinterliess, festgestellt. Fast alle diese Namen gingen durch Opiz selbst oder sptere Autoren in die Literatur ein, wenn auch oft nur als nomina nuda. Fr alle von Opiz oder spter auf der Basis seiner hand-schriftlichen Diagnosen oder Herbarexemplare gltig verffentlichten Namen wird - soweit mglich - der Typus angegeben oder ein Lectotypus gewhlt. Die Typisierung ermglichte die Zuordnung der von Opiz und den anderen Autoren beschriebenen Taxa zu den mitteleuro-pischen Arten und Unterarten, die zur Erluterung der dabei bercksichtigten Artauffassung in einer bersicht zusammengestellt werden. Smtliche auf Opiz zurckgehenden Thymus-Namen werden diskutiert und die Revisionsergebnisse aller durchgesehenen authentischen Herbar-exemplare angegeben. Die Resultate der nomenklatorischen und taxonomischen Studien werden in Listen zusammengefasst. Auf der Grundlage eines Exsikkates von Opiz wird eine neue Variett beschrieben: Thymus alpestris var. opizianus var. nov. /// Besides other "critical groups" the Czech botanist Ph. M. Opiz dedicated special attention to the genus Thymus L. in Bohemia. He described a large number of own "microspecies" and pointed with it at the polymorphism of the Centraleuropean species. The present author, who studied the original literatur and authentic herbarium material, found 72 names of taxa (64 species, 8 infraspecific taxa) published by Opiz first or described on herbarium labels. Numerous epitheta are nomina nuda. Later authors examining his herbarium material or seeing his handwritten diagnoses on herbarium sheets validly described many of them. All found names of Thymus-taxa published by Opiz first are cited and discussed. The types for the validly described names are given. In the most cases a lectotype was selected of the examined original herbarium specimens. The identidy of the taxa according to the species recognized by the present author is given. All seen authentic herbarium specimens were determined. The results of determination are cited, even of the sheets with non validly published names, because in several recent treatments dealing with Centraleuropean species of genus Thymus such nomina nuda are considered as valid names. The results of nomenclatural and taxonomic studies and the herbaria with type material are listed. A new varietas named after Opiz, who collected the type specimen in the mountains of Krkonoe, is described: Thymus alpestris Tausch ex A. Kerner var. opizianus P. Schmidt. 
4180763|A phytosociological description of a new subassociation of the Phyllantho selbyi-Aristidetum brittonorum is presented. It occurs in the Siguanea Savanna complex near the Colony Hotel, on white sand.
4180441| The present paper deals with the following three mountain Oxytropis species: Oxytropis urumovii Jv. in Urumov, an endemic species of the Pirin (Bulgaria); O. dinarica (Murb.) Wettst. distributed predominantly in Yugoslavia, and O. campestris which is common in the East Alps, but very rare in the Balkans. Three subspecies of O. dinarica were distinguished: subsp. dinarica, subsp. weberi Chrtek et Chrtkov, and subsp. velebitica Chrtek et Chrtkov. In addition, a new combination O. halleri Bunge ex Koch subsp. korabensis (Kmmerle et Jv.) Chrtek et Chrtkov is given. /// In dem Artikel sind einige Gebirgsarten aus der Gattung Oxytropis diskutiert. Es sind: Oxytropis urumovii Jv. in Urumov (endemische Art im Pirin Gebirge in Bulgarien); O. dinarica (Murb.) Wettst., die auf Grund der morphologischen Merkmale, besonders der Form der Bltenstnde und der Farbe der Bltter, in drei Unterarten geteilt wurde: subsp. dinarica (mit Verbreitungszentrum in den zentralen Teil von Yugoslawiens), subsp. velebitica Chrtek et Chrtkov (im westlichen Teil von Jugoslawiens, besonders im Velebit Gebirge) und subsp. weberi Chrtek et Chrtkov (im stlichen Teil von Yugoslawiens, in der Umgebung von der Ohrid See und in Gebirgen ar planina und Korab); O. campestris (L.) DC. ist hufig in den stlichen Regionen von den Alpen, aber selten im Balkanischen Halbinsel, wo sie wahrscheinlich nur auf einigen Lokalitten wchst. Am Ende ist eine neue Kombination von Oxytropis halleri Bunge ex Koch subsp. korabensis (Kmmerle et Jv.) Chrtek et Chrtkov eingefhrt. 
4180693| A new species Coronilla moravica (family Fabaceae) is described from the locality aklovy N of Uhersk Brod in E Moravia, Czechoslovakia. 
4180615| Classification of euhemerobic calciphilous pine-communities should be based on studies carried out over an extensive area and for several seasons. The Mal Karpaty Mts. are situated near the northern boundary of the distribution of Pinus nigra and it is mecessary to find the planting time of all Pinus nigra stands. The common use of Ellenberg's "Zeigerwerte der Gefsspflanzen Mitteleuropas" for the ecological evaluation of plant communities in the Western Carpathians Mts. is criticised for several reasons. 
4179618|Snow-land communities in Reykjanes Peninsula are represented by the associations Hylocomio-Salicetum herbaceae, Rhodiolo-Bartsietum alpinae and Rhytidiadelpho-Poetum alpinae, belonging to a new alliance, Antitrichio-Rhodiolion, and by Anthelietum Juratzkanae, Sibbaldio-Salicetum herbaceae and Sibbaldietum procumbentis, belonging to the alliance Salicion herbaceae s. l. Their syntaxonomy and ecology are discussed.
4180415| The study presents chromosome counts of the following species of the genus Juncus from Slovaka: J. sphaerocarpus, J. capitatus, J. subnodulosus, J. atratus, J. alpino-articulatus subsp. alpino-articulatus, J. triglumis, J. castaneus. 
4179429| In this paper, a new Campanula species is described from Eastern Slovakia. Its morphological, distributional and cytological relationships and ecological preferences are briefly discussed and affinity to the other Saxicolae examined. The taxon is characterized by the following features: specific combination of constant morphological characters; diploid chromosome number (2n = 34); ecological specialization to the fissures of limestone and dolomitic rocks; relict occurrence in a small, sharply limited area; very late flowering. Geographically, it appears to be the northernmost representative of the Saxicolae. /// In der Arbeit wird Campanula xylocarpa als eine neue Art der Ser. Saxicolae Witasek aus der Ostslowakei beschrieben und ihre Morphologie, Zytologie, kologie, Verbreitung und systematische Stellung besprochen. Die Art wird folgenderweise charakterisiert: Eine spezifische Kombination morphologischer Merkmale; diploide Chromosomenzahl (2n = 34); kologische Gebundenheit an Kalk- und Dolomitfelsritzen; reliktartiges Vorkommen in einem kleinen Verbreitungsgebiet (siehe Karte); sehr spte Bltezeit. Morphologisch ist die Art besonders durch folgende Merkmale ausgezeichnet: Rhizom verdickt, Stengel steif, aufrecht, kahl, Stengelbltter schmallineal bis fadenfrmig, Bltenstand vielbltig, rispig, Fruchtknoten papills, Kelchzipfel gekrmmt, Kapsel mehr oder minder aufrecht, stark verholzt. 
4181109| The ripened seeds show no marked dormancy and germinate within wide limits of temperature, where the temperatures of 6-10/25C represent the optimum. 18 months old seeds germinated at the temperature of 10/25C by 69% 13 year old seeds did not germinate. This annual winter species reproduces only in the generative way, the seeds sown in the middle of October 1987 and 1988 sprouted at the end of October, and the seedlings with 1-2 pairs of true leaves survived successfully the winter. 
4180795| In a semi-natural, species-rich perennial grassland community (Pulsatillo-Festucetum rupicolae), temporal variation of species composition was studied in permanent plots during secondary succession induced by herbicides selective to dicots and monocots and herbicides of total effect. The effectiveness of using different similarity matrices in detecting vegetation dynamic changes was investigated. Differences caused by treatments in (1), the coenological similarity relations, (2) the direction of secondary succession, (3) the rates of change measured as floristic change (Srensen index) and as change of species cover (Czekanowski's coefficient), (4) the reestablishment of the original state, (5) the seasonal dynamics, (6) the responses to stress situation (drought) have been analysed. The vegetation dynamic processes of the community near stable state were mainly influenced by the differences between years. During the 5 years of study the changes referred to the first sampling date showed a trend induced by changing climatic conditions. In the intact community, seasonal fluctuations can be detected very well. The community rich in species has been proved to be resistant to drought, but resilience referring to its recovery following disturbance was relatively small. After having been drastically disturbed from its dynamically stable state, the grassland community regenerated very slowly. In fact, the community could not recover its original state within five years. The direction and rate of change of the secondary successional and regeneration processes have been determined primarily by the species first occupying the bare ground after herbicide treatment, and the vegetative regeneration of the species present, namely the "competition for space". The main differences between treatments lie in the behaviour of the constituent species in the different coenostates developed following the disturbance. 
4179425| An indirect method for determination of stomata apertures is described. It is based on comparison of two simultaneous curves: the one obtained under natural conditions and the second obtained under standard conditions with minimum air humidity which can be considered as a criterion of stomata apertures. /// Es wurde ein Versuch unternommen, den Tagesgang der Spaltffnungs-bewegungen auf indirektem Wege festzustellen. Die Methode beruht auf einem Vergleich zweier simultaner Tageskurven der Transpiration: und zwar ciner Tageskurve, die unter natrlichen Bedingungen im Bestand ermittelt wurde, und einer zweiten unter Standardbedingungen mit minimaler Luftfeuchtigkeit, was als ein Kriterium der Transpirationsfhigkeit und dadurch als Masstab der Spaltweiten betrachtet werden kann. Die Bestimmung der aktuellen und der Standardtranspiration wurde gravimetrisch durchgefhrt. Beispiele der xerothermen Pflanzen, wie Stipa pulcherrima, S. stenophylla, Teucrium chamaedrys, Salvia nemorosa, Stachys recta und Bromus erectus sind angegeben. 
4179595|The subdivision of Cuscutaceae into 4 genera (Cuscuta L. s. str., Grammica Lour., Monogynella Des Moul., Kadurias Rafin.) is proposed.
4180086| Im Jahre 1974 wurden 9 Phragmites-Bestnde nach der Erntemethode in 7- oder 14tgigem Abstand untersucht. Festgestellt wurden sowohl Dichte, Frisch- und Trockengewicht pro m
4180503|Wild populations from Italy of Vicia hybrida L. and Vicia lutea L. are investigated from the karyological and morphological point of view; in addition to the description of the most important features of the phenotype, the seed coat external ornamentation, as observed under SEM, is shown.
4180294|This paper deals with phytosociological studies of Danish chalk grasslands. These grasslands should be reckoned to a new association, viz. Solidagini-Helictotrichetum pratensis, alliance Mesobromion, class Festuco-Brometea. Two geographically vicarious subassociations could be distinguished. Furthermore attention has been payed to the cryptogams occuring in these grasslands, the influence of dominance of an introduced plant species on the species diversity, and the changes during the last decades in species composition as well as in area of the chalk grasslands in Denmark.
4180965| Four profiles were sampled from three mires situated near the town of Svtl nad Szavou in the western forland of the Bohemian-Moravian Uplands. The sites were studied pollen analytically. In one of the profiles macroscopic analyses were also carried out. The aim of the analyses performed was to provide data for reconstructing the vegetational evolution in the area under study. A survey of vegetation changes from the Late Glacial (Allerd) up to the present was obtained. Special attention was devoted to the composition of original forest stands and to their changes due to the impact of man. The results were compared with the conclusions of the geobotanical reconstruction mapping, of forest-type mapping, of the biogeographical mapping, and of archives of forest records. 
4180526|Present paper deals with 20 species of the genus Artemisia occurring in the North-West Himalaya. Chromosome counts are given for 18 species (for 3 species for the first time). Two new species, A. banihalensis (A. roxburghiana agg.) and A. cashemirica (A. parviflora agg.), are described.
4180775| Here 13 species of the non-foliicolous species of the lichen family Ectolechiaceae Zahlbr. em. Haf. are reported, which were found in a collection from Brazil. Six species are described as new: Badimia corticola (sp. n.), Calopadia isidiosa (sp. n.), C. psoromoides (sp. n.), C. subfusca (sp. n.), Tapellaria corticola (sp. n.), and T. schindleri (sp. n.). Seven species have been identified with earlier described species: Calopadia chaconsis (Malme) comb. n. (= Lopadium chaconse Malme), C. foliicola (Fe) Vzda, C. fusca (Mll. Arg.) Vzda, C. lecanorella (Nyl.) comb. n. C. perpallida (Nyl.) Vzda, C. phyllogena (Mll. Arg.) Vzda, and Tapellaria epiphylla (Mll. Arg.) Sant. A key and illustrations for all studied species are provided, and the nomenclatural problem of the correct generic name of the Pyrenotrichum Mont. (anamorph) for Calopadia Vzda or Tapellaria Sant. (teleomorphs) are discussed. /// Anknpfend an eine Studie ber die - erweiterte - Familie Ectolechiaceae Zahlbr. (em. Hafellner, em. Vzda 1986), die nach bisheriger Kenntnis berwiegend nur foliicole Arten erhalten hatte, werden in der vorliegender Arbeit 13 corticole Arten der Familie aus Brasilien behandelt. Secht davon werden neu beschrieben, nmlich Badimia corticola sp. n., Calopadia isidiosa sp. n., C. psoromoides sp. n., C. subfusca sp. n., Tapellaria corticola sp. n., T. schindleri sp. n. Sieben Arten werden mit schon frher in anderen Gattungen beschriebenen identifiziert; die notwendigen Neukombinationen werden gegeben. Alle behandelten Arten werden geschlsselt und illustriert. Das Typenmaterial von Pyrenotrichum splitgerberi Montagne - selbst Typus der Gattung Pyrenotrichum Montagne 1834 - wurde nher untersucht. Pyrenotrichum besitzt nach Art. 59/1 des Codes Prioritt allen nomina generica der Ectolechiaceae gegenber. Wegen des speziellen Konidientypus von P. splitgerberi - die Konidien sind sichelfrmig, gewunden und querseptiert - kommen aber nur 2 Gattungen als jngere Synonyme in Frage, nmlich Calopadia Vzda und Tapellaria Mll. Arg. em. R. Sant., welche beide hnlich gestaltete Konidien in ihren Anamorphen besitzen. Weil sich aber die Konidien des Typen-materials von Pyrenotrichum splitbergeri sich mit keinem Anamorph einer der bisher bekanntgewordenen Calopadia- und Tapellaria-Arten identifizieren lsst, bleibt der Name nach dem jetzigen Kenntnisstand nicht verwendbar. 
4181539|This is a first approximation to a Conspectus of classes of European vegetation. European vegetation consists, according to the present scheme, of 73 classes. An attempt was made to compile all available names of classes which have ever appeared in European phytosociological literature. The names were checked for nomenclatural accuracy. Lists of synonyms and related names are given. The classes are characterised by a brief diagnosis, a comprehensive list of diagnostic species, and a list of basic references. Several syntaxonomic problems are discussed in the form of short notes.
4179948|A computer programme is proposed for evaluating sucrose-inversion temperature measurements. The exponential and arithmetic mean temperatures as well as sums of temperatures are computed by two alternative procedures. A calculation of the final rotation angle of the inverted sucrose solution is proposed instead of direct estimation.
4179746| Imperatoria ostruthium gehrt im Gebirge Orlick hory (Adlergebirge) zu den allochthonen Arten. Es ist sehr wahrscheinlich, dass sie hier von deutsch sprechenden Ansiedlern anfangs des 17. Jahrhunderts eingefhrt wurde, besonders im Zusammenhang mit der sog. Alpenholzhauer-Kolonisation. Als gezogene und verwildernde Heilpflanze verbreitete sie sich im Bereich der damaligen Holzhauersiedlungen, kleiner Bergwirtschaften sowie in den Siedlungen der weiteren Umgebung von Glas- und Hammerhtten, die im 17. und 18. Jahrhundert, in einigen Fllen noch im 19. Jahrhundert, in Betrieb waren. /// The paper deals with the relation between the settlement history and the distribution of Imperatoria ostruthium L. in the Orlick hory mountains (NE. Bohemia). Imperatoria ostruthium belongs to the allochthonous species in the Orlick hory mountains. Its recent distribution is illustrated in Fig. 1. The continuous settlement process at higher altitutes of the Orlick hory in the main started as late as during the second half of the 16th and especially in the first half of the 17th century. In connection with the enormous development of logging for the use of the Bohemian inland, both in the mountains and in the foothills numerous glassworks were set up, iron ores were mined and iron was produced (see Fig. 2). The stream of German-speaking craftsmen, lumber workers and herdsmen coming predominantly from the former county of Kodzko (Poland) increased. A significant reinforcement of the German immigration into the central part of the mountain range come with the colonization by lumber workers from the Alps. At beginning of the 17th lumber workers from the eastern part of the Krkonoe (Giant Mountains), who originally came from the Alps, were brought to the Orlick hory. The regions influenced by this colonization (see Fig. 2) as well as the environs of glass and iron works which were active through the 17th, 18th and in some cases up to the 19th century, conform conspicuously to the regions of the most intensive accumulation of localities of I. ostruthium. Therefore it may be assumed that this species was introduced into the Orlick hory mountains by German-speaking settlers at the beginning of the 17th century. As a favourite medicinal plant of all-round use it was cultivated in the lumber workers' hamlets, in the settlements around the glass and iron works and round little mountain farmsteads especially in the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries. It escaped from cultivation and has become a permanent part of the vegetation in the vicinity of both present and former settlement. 
4181183|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1990 454 names have been listed. For each one of them, a first appreciation about its validity is given relating to the Code of Nomenclature. 8 names are given in addition to the Index 1987 (Theurillat and Moravec 1990), 9 to the Index 1988 (Theurillat and Moravec 1991) and 4 to Index 1989 (Theurillat and Moravec 1992).
4179967|Studies of the Adjarian flora resulted in a detailed classification of the ergasiophygophytes, based mainly on the degree of their naturalization: (1) The ephemeroergasiophygophytes display unstable naturalization both in artificial and natural habitats, and disappear after only a few growing seasons. (2) The deuteroergasiophygophytes show stable naturalization in anthropogenic habitats. (3) The protoergasiophygophytes are distinguished by uncertain stability of naturalization in natural habitats, and, if firmly naturalized on a certain spot, they lack any tendency to further spreading. (4) The autergasiophygophytes tend to spread in natural habitats. (5) The aggressive ergasiophygophytes transform natural vegetation in new plant communities, and can become dominant species in these communities. New terms, viz. emphemeroxenophytes, protoneophytes, non-aggressive neophytes, slightly aggressive neophytes, and postneophytes with vegetative reproduction have also been introduced to express diverse features of the xenophytes.
4181318|Two new associations belonging to the Salicion silesiacae within the Betulo carpaticae-Alnetea viridis are described. These are disclimax shrub communities dominated by Salix silesiaca at higher altitudes of the Fatra Mts. (Western Carpathians). Synmorphological, synecological, syntaxonomical, syngenetical and synchorological characteristics of the communities are given. Floristic differences between the montane shrub communities in the Western Carpathians and those in the Sudeten Mts. are summarized in a synthetic table.
4181521|A taxonomic revision of the Hieracium alpinum group (sensu Flora Europaea) in the Sudeten Mts., the West and the Ukrainian East Carpathians is provided. Six species are distinguished in the area studied, viz. Hieracium alpinum, H. halleri, H. augusti-bayeri, H. melanocephalum, H. tubulosum, and H. schustleri. H. alpinum occurs throughout the mountain ranges studied, three other taxa are endemic to the Sudeten Mts. (H. melanocephalum, H. tubulosum, H. schustleri), one is confined to the West Carpathians (H. halleri, in addition to the Alps) and one is endemic to the Ukrainian East Carpathians (H. augusti-bayeri). A diploid cytotype (2n=18) was ascertained in H. alpinum from the Ukrainian East Carpathians and the same chromosome number was found for H. augusti-bayeri. An agamospermous mode of reproduction was confirmed for the triploid cytotype of H. alpinum, the triploid H. melanocephalum and H. halleri and the tetraploids H. tubulosum and H. schustleri; the diploid taxa were found to be sexual. Pollen production in diploid taxa is high and pollen grains are homogeneous in size; triploid species, as well as tetraploid H. tubulosum, do not produce pollen; tetraploid H. schustleri has pollen grains of variable size. Data on the ecology and distribution of the species are also given.
4180706|A study was made of the morphological variation in seven population samples of B. glacialis. Data on quantitative and qualitative characters reveal that one of the populations differs considerably from the rest. Observations on geographical distribution show that this species is not endemic to the peaks of Sierra Nevada but far more widely distributed than previously realized. Two varieties of B. glacialis, one of which is new, are described.
4179519| The author describes a new genus of the family Thelypteridaceae based on the species Polypodium limbospermum All.; the genus includes two species only. The morphological characterization of the genus and its delimitation, especially in relation to the genus Thelypteris Schmidel, is given and comments are made on the nomenclatural problems regarding especially the nomenclature of the generic name Thelypteris Schmidel 1762. Besides description of the genus Oreopteris Holub and two new nomenclatural combinations for its species - O. limbosperma (All.) Holub and O. quelpaertensis (Christ) Holub - the combination Thelypteris palustris Schott subsp. pubescens (Lawson) Holub is also proposed. /// Die Familie Thelypteridaceae Ching ist sehr reich an Arten (um 900 Arten); ihre Einteilung in natrliche Gattungen ist sehr schwierig nicht nur in Hinsicht auf diese grosse Artenzahl, aber auch wegen der netzartigen Variabilitt und wahrscheinlichen Konvergenzerscheinungen. Eine von natrlichen Gruppen in dem weitumfassenden Inhalt der Familie Thelypteridaceae stellt die Gruppe von zwei Arten aus dem Umkreis von Thelypteris limbosperma (All.) H. P. Fuchs vor, welche sich von den anderen Gruppen durch die Garnitur der Merkmale von verschiedenen Teilen der Pflanze unterscheidet, am besten durch die Merkmale des Wurzelstockes, der Bltter, der Nervatur, der Spreuschuppen, durch die Stellung der Sporenbehlterhufchen, usw. Weil eine eingehende Analyse der Nomenklatur zeigte, dass es keinen Namen fr diesbezgliche Gruppe in der taxonomischen Rangstufe der Gattung gibt, wird Oreopteris als ein neuer Gattungsname vorgeschlagen, der von dem oft gebrauchten und gut bekannten Epitheton der Typus-Art abgeleitet ist. Die Gattung Oreopteris Holub schliesst nur zwei Arten ein - O. limbosperma (All.) Holub and O. quelpaertensis (Christ) Holub. Bei der Lsung der nomenklatorischen Problematik musste eine grndliche Revision der Gltigkeit des Namens Thelypteris Schmidel 1762 durchgefhrt werden, auf Grund deren der Autor diesen Gattungsnamen als einen gltig verffentlichten anerkennt; zugleich mussten auch die Probleme der Typisierung dieses Gattungsnamens gelst werden. Der Autor neigt zur Typisierung mit der Art Thelypteris palustris Schott und zugleich schlgt er vor, diese Typus-Art des Gattungsnamens Thelypteris Schmidel 1762 zu schtzen. In der Gattung Thelypteris Schmidel 1762 wurde auch eine neue nomenklatorische Kombination vorgeschlagen, und zwar Thelypteris palustris Schott subsp. pubescens (Lawson) Holub fr die Pflanzen dieser Art, die in Nord Amerika vorkommen. 
4179560|Acht neue Taxa und dreizehn nomenklatorische Kombinationen innerhalb der Familie Gyalectaceae werden vorgeschlagen.
4179427| Lysimachia nemorum ist eine in der Slowakei und in den ganzen Karpaten unregelmssig vorkommende Art; dort ist gleichzeitig auch der Auslufer ihres subatlantischen Areals. Sie ist meistens an die Kammgebiete der ganzen Karpaten, in Buchenwldern, gebunden, vorwiegend ausserhalb von Kalkstein und optimal in Lagen von 550 bis 950 m. . d. M., nur selten hher. Ihre ganze Verbreitung in der Slowakei und in den Karpaten ist wahrscheinlich ein Abbild der klimatischen Bedingungen, die sich hier in der ganzen Formung des Areals widerspiegeln. /// In the region of Slovakia, Lysimachia nemorum is most frequent in the Western Beskyds, the downs of Kysuca and, mainly in the mountain ranges of ergovsk Pohorie, Ondavsk Vrchovina and Nzk Poloniny. Less frequently it appears in the group of Pilsko and Babia Gora, in the mountain ranges of Mal Fatra, Oravsk Magura, Liptovsk Hole, Belansk Tatry, Spisk Magura and Pieniny. In addition, though rare, it is known from the Bl Karpaty and the Velk Fatra and some solitary specimens come from Mal Karpaty, the mountain ranges of Vtnk and Spisk Rudoho. The irregulatity of the distribution is due to the subatlantic character of the total distribution area and to the more continental features of the climatic conditions of the above regions. The same applies to the distribution throughout the Carpathian range. 
4180173| Im Verlauf einiger Jahre wurde die Keimungskologie der Frchte von Dipsacus sylvestris Huds., Dipsacus laciniatus L., Cephalaria transsylvanica (L.) Schrad. ex Roem. et Schult., Virga strigosa (Willd. ex Roem. et Schult.) Holub und Virga pilosa (L.) Hill im Laboratorium und auf einer Versuchsparzelle in Pruhonice studiert. Durch Versuche mit mehreren Fruchtproben wurde festgestellt, dass die Frchte der Arten Dipsacus sylvestris, Dipsacus laciniatus und Cephalaria transsylvanica ohne Samenruhe keimen knnen, whrend die Frchte von Virga strigosa und Virga pilosa ene tiefere Samenruhe durchmachen, die durch den physiologischen Zustand des Keimes verursacht ist. Die Dormanz wurde nur in der Erde oder bei kalter Stratifikation unterbrochen. Weiter wurden bei einzelnen Arten verschiedene Beobachtungen und Versuche ber Phnologie der Keimpflanzen, die Schwimmfhigkeit der Frchte und Disseminationzeit der Frchte durchgefhrt. /// The germination ecology of 5 species of the family Dipsacaceae was investigated over several years. It was found that under favourable conditions Dipsacus sylvestris, Dipsacus laciniatus, and Cephalaria transsylvanica were able to germinate without diapause within various limits of temperatures, while the fruits of Virga strigosa and Virga pilosa passed through a deeper dormancy, which could be interrupted only by cold stratification (betweed +1 and +8 C) for several months. In Virga pilosa, germination started between the 86th and 126th days, and the largest number of fruits germinated between the 4th and 6th months after the beginning of stratification. In Virga strigosa, germination started between the 49th and 103rd days, and the largest number of fruits germinted between the 3rd and 6th months. The deeper dormancy of V. strigosa has already been pointed out (Lhotsk 1968b). All five species under study have a big, well-differentiated embryo in their fruits which fills almost the whole seed and which does not show any further development until the start of germination. In Virga strigosa and V. pilosa dormancy is caused by the physiological state of the embryo. In both species dissemination is tachysporous which contributes favourably to the fact that most seeds are able to overcome the dormancy as early as the next growing season. Kinochory and boleochory are the most important types of dissemination. All species under study can also be distributed by nautochory. The fruits of four species are specifically light. The fruits of Virga strigosa float on water for several hours thanks to the air bublles clinging to their surface. All species (especially Dipsacus sylvestris and D. laciniatus) can also be distributed by endochory, first of all by the birds. The synanthropic species are also distributed by various forms of human activity. 
4180004|The submerged aquatic vascular vegetation was studied in the Finger Lakes and in two bays of Lake Ontario in northern New York State, U.S.A. The species composition, structure and biomass of the communities are related to the principal habitat factors such as trophic status of the lakes, bottom slope and substrate, current and stream effects, and depth. A record of the development of changes in the trophic status of the lakes and in the species composition of their submerged vascular vegetation is outlined. An attempt is made to assess the effects of catastrophic events (floods and cloudbursts in the watershed) on the lake vegetation.
4179909|Data on standing crop of litter, litter production and disappearance in three alluvial meadow plant communities are presented. The influence of ecological conditions and quality of litter on litter decomposition rate, and the chemical changes of litter during decomposition are described.
4180335| Die phytoznologische Variabilitt und die Verbreitung des Aceri-Carpinetum wurden aufgrund von Analyse und Synthese eines umfangreichen Aufnahmenmaterials festgestellt. Das Aceri-Carpinetum umfasst Schuttwlder der Eichen-Hainbuchenwald-Stufe auf das gegliederte Relief der Fluss- und Bachtler gebunden; es ist auf kologisch adquaten Standorten des Hochlandes esk vysoina (Bhmisches Hochland) und des Aussenkarpaten-Systems verbreitet. Diese Assoziation wird in vier Subassoziationen gegliedert, u. zw. Aceri-Carpinetum aegopodietosum, Aceri-Carpinetum aconitetosum vulpariae, Aceri-Carpinetum abietetosum und Aceri-Carpinetum festucetosum altissimae. /// The association Aceri-Carpinetum Klika 1941 represents the edaphically and mesoclimatically conditioned scree woods of the Carpinion belt, occurring mainly on steep, shaded slopes of the narrow river valley of the Bohemian Massif. The tree layer is characterised by a rich and constant occurrence of Acer pseudo-platanus, A. platanoides, Ulmus glabra, Tilia platyphyllos and Fraxinus excelsior. Of the climax trees Carpinus betulus and locally also Quercus petraea and Q. robur grow in this association. Fagus sylvatica occurs occasionally in narrow canyons in which temperature inversion takes place, or on the transition to the submontane beech belt. The herb layer is rich in species and is composed mainly of the Fagetalia character species. The differential species group of the Aceri-Carpinetum versus the Mercuriali-Fraxinetum is composed of Campanula rapunculoides, Stellaria holostea, Galium sylvaticum and Hepatica nobilis. The shrub layer has a very small cover, the moss synusia is distributed only on rocks and stones. The phytosociological variability of the association in various parts of Czechoslovakia (Czech Socialist Republic) is documented by a synoptic table of published sets of relevs (239 relevs) as well as by the author's unpublished relevs (42 relevs). The association is divided into four subassociations. Aceri-Carpinetum aegopodietosum Klika 1941 em. Husov - represents the typical subassociation, which is negatively characterised; the differential species groups of the other subassociations are absent. It is distributed on base rich igneous rocks as well as on crystalline silicate rocks, containing larger quantities of mineral nutrient reserves. The centre of its distribution in Bohemia is in dissected narrow valleys in the hills of the Berounka valley, in Moravia in the hills of Adamovsk vrchovina, especially in the canyon of the river Svitava. The soil of the later developemental steges of this subassociation is mull-like ranker or ranker-braunerde; of the more nature stage, eutrophic braunerde. All these soils usually contain many rocks and stones. The rhizosphere in rich in bases, with very good nitrifying power; the humus formation is favourable. Aceri-Carpinetum aconitetosum vulpariae Husov is confined to the limestones of karst areas; it occurs in esk and Moravsk kras and Pavlovsk vrchy. It is characterised by differential species such as Cornus mas, Berberis vulgaris, Viola mirabilis, Primula veris, Aconitum vulparia, Bupleurum falcatum, B. longifolium, Melittis melissophyllum, Lathyrus niger and Polygonatum odoratum. In the moss layer species confined to calcareous rocks predominate, for instance Anomodon attenuatus, A. viticulosus, Camptothecium lutescens and Cteniduum molluscum. The soil type of this subassociation is young rendsina very rich in humus, having usually high stone and rock content in the A horizon, which increases strongly with depth. These soils are rich in calcium carbonate, and have a good decompostion and humification; the humus form is rendsina mulllike moder. The subassociations described have two geographically conditioned variants: typical variant, which occurs in the hilly land of the Berounka bazin (incl. esk kras) and the variant with Euonymus verrucosa, occurring in the hilly land Brnnsk vrchovina (incl. Moravsk kras) and Pavlovsk vrchy. The variant with Euonymus verrucosa is characterised by a group of Carpathian migrants such as Euonymus verrucosa, Isopyrum thalictroides, Euphorbia amygdaloides, Geranium phaeum and Glechoma hirsuta. Aceri-Carpinetum abietetosum (Mikyka 1952) Husov - occurs on the margin of the distribution area of the Carpinion communities. In warmer habitats the tree layer is dominated by Tilia cordata, in colder and moister ones by T. platyphyllos. Abies alba accedes with a high constancy, Carpinus betulus on the contrary decreases or is entirely absent. This subassociation has been found on silicate crystalline rocks in the narrow upper parts of such river valleys as the Vltava, Lunice, Stela and Orlice. It occupies shady slopes with soils belonging to ranker-braunerde or to a mesotrophic variant of braunerde with high skeleton content. Aceri-Carpinetum festucetosum altissimae Klika 1959 - represents a locally conditioned community, documented by a small number of relevs only. This subassociation prefers valleys with temperature inversion, where it is localized almost entirely on semiconvex to convex parts of shady slopes in silicate soils. Some communities form a transition to submontane beech forests. In the tree layer Fagus sylvatica and Abies alba often grow; the physiognomy of the herb layer is dominated by Festuca altissima. The soils of this subassociation belong to ranker-braunerde or to the mesotrophic variant of the braunerde. The A horizon of these soils is only moderately rich in bases. Aceri-Carpinetum festucetosum altissimae has been found in the hilly land Kivokltsk vrchovina and Beneovsk pahorkatina. 
4179944| Problems of generic names which become nomenclaturally superfluous by inclusion of the type of an earlier generic name are discussed on the basis of the change of Art. 63 of the Code adopted in Leningrad. The author disagrees with the restriction of illegitimity in generic names and discusses briefly some points associated with these questions (breach of horizontal relation of names; violation of relations between taxonomy and nomenclature; violation of the long used principle of superfluity; warranty of the principle of superfluity; competence of the taxonomic approach to the solution of problems of superfluity; scanty knowledge of names of infrageneric taxa; problems of linking basionymic infrageneric names to corresponding generic names; different views on the validity of various types of indirect reference; problems of lectotypification; inconsistencies in the text of the Code). In connection with the preparation of an account of perennial oats for "Flora Europaea" the author was, however, compelled to accept Avenula (Dumort. 1824) Dumort. 1868 instead of Avenochloa Holub 1962; 30 new nomenclatural combinations resulted from this unnecessary change in the Code. /// Der Gegenstand dieses Artikels liegt in der Diskussion der Problematik der berflssigen Gattungsnamen im Zusammenhang mit Art. 63 des Kodes. Ansichten ber die berflssigkeit der Namen entwickelten sich im Laufe der Zeit und vernderten sich von ursprnglich rein taxonomischem Zutritt (bereinstimmende taxonomische Umgrenzung) zur Aufnahme der berflssigkeit, gegrndet auf das Einschliessen des Typus eines frher verffentlichten gltigen Namens. In neuerer Zeit wurde die berflssigkeit der Namen vom Charakter der nomenklatorischen Kombinationen in solchen Fllen beschrnkt, wenn das Epitheton des Basionyms der Kombination legitim war. Diese Ausnahme wurde in Leningrad auch auf die Gattungsnamen und Namen oberhalb des Gattungsniveaus ausgebreitet. Flogerungen dieser Aktion sind bisher nicht bekannt; gem einem konkreten Fall - der erzwungenen Ersetzung des Gattungsnamens Avenochloa durch Avenula, der im Artikel ausfhrlich beschrieben ist, zeigen sich die Ergebnisse eher als negativ. Der Autor stimmt der Einschrnkung der Illegitimitt der berflssigen Namen nicht zu und diskutiert verschiedene Punkte der fraglichen Problematik. Er nimmt als berechtigt an, die Probleme der berflssigkeit von Namen in einzelnen Rangstufen zu lsen, nmlich unterschiedlich bei den horizontalen und bei den vertikalen Verschiebungen. Von 2 nomenklatorischen Typen unter einem Gattungsnamen sollte man den Vorzug dem geben, der in der gegebenen Rangstufe Zeitprioritt aufweist. Das Prinzip der berflssigkeit der Namen geht aus der taxonomischen Seite des Studiums hervor und hat seinen Platz in der nomenklatorischen Praxis schon seit einer langen Zeit; die Beziehung zwischen Taxonomie und Nomenklatur wrde durch seine Aufhebung wesentlich gestrt. Das Unterscheiden von einer nomenklatorischen (homotypischen, obligaten) und einer taxonomischen (heterotypischen, fakultativen) berflssigkeit der Namen ist in der Praxis nicht berechtigt. Die Auffassung der berflssigen Namen als illegitime Namen dauert in der botanischen Nomenklatur seit der Zeit des Einfhrens des Priorittsprinzips an. Neben der Typusmethode sollte fr die Bestimmung der berflssigen Namen als eine ihr gleichwertige Methode auch die Umgrenzungsmethode bentzt werden. Manche Schwierigkeiten knnen vom Fakt folgen, da die Namen der infragenerischen Taxa, die als Basionyme der Gattungsnamen gelten knnen, nur unvollkommen bekannt sind (ihr nomenklatorischer Charakter, Typisierung). Die Verbindung zwischen den infragenerischen Basionymen und den Gattungsnamen kann manchmal auch indirekt sein und unterschiedliche Anschauungen auf die Berechtigkeit der verschiedenen Arten der indirekten Hinweise knnen existieren. Whrend der Lektotypisierung der Gattungsnamen wird es ntig sein, die Problematik von allen Namen der verwandten Taxa (Namen von infragenerischen Taxa inbegriffen) zu bercksichtigen, damit die nderungen von einem rein nomenklatorischen Charakter in der Zukunft vermeiden werden knnten. Im Text des Kodes sollte der Termin "incorrect" definiert werden, wie auch die Umstnde der Vernderung des nicht korrekten Namens zu einem korrekten Namen nher bestimmt werden. In Fllen von taxonomischen Einschrnkungen sollten die Namen der betreffenden Taxa immer in einer emendierten Form angegeben werden. Fr die Lsung der Problematik des Art. 63 sollte eine spezielle Kommission errichtet werden, die die Vorschlge fr den nchsten Kongress vorbereiten sollte. Die nderungen des Kodes sollten immer sehr bedchtig durchgefhrt werden, damit die Namen, die nach dem Wortlaut einer Ausgabe des Kodes vorgeschlagen wurden, nicht in einer kurzen Zeit nach dem Wortlaut der nchsten Ausgabe des Kodes verndert werden mssten; dies gilt hauptschlich fr die Gattungsnamen, nach deren Ersetzungen oft viele nderungen der Artennamen folgen mssen. Aufgrund der nderung des Kodes in Leningrad ist es jetzt ntig, den Namen Avenochloa Holub 1962, der in bereinstimmung mit den Regeln des Kodes vorgeschlagen wurde, durch den Namen Avenula (Dumort.) Dumort. 1868 zu ersetzen, wenn auch der letzte Name taxonomisch mit Helictotrichon Bess. 1827 vollkommen identisch und auch immer nomenklatorisch berflssig ist. Diese nderung ist hier zwar als unberechtigt angenommen, aber in Hinsicht auf die Notwendigkeit der Bearbeitung dieser Gattung fr die "Flora Europaea" (die den Kod in seinem ganzen Umfang streng anerkennt) in einem begrenzten Zeitraum, mu die angefhrte nderung des Gattungsnamens leider angenommen werden. In dem Text des Artikels sind die gegenseitigen Verhltnisse der Gattungsnamen Helictotrichon, Avenula und Avenochloa beschrieben, dann ist die Analyse der Artennamen, die bisher unter dem Gattungsnamen Avenula verffentlicht wurden, durchgefhrt (sie werden von illegitimen Namen jetzt korrekte Namen) wie auch die Vorschlge von neuen nomenklatorischen Kombinationen gegeben (1 fr Untergattung, 2 fr Sektionen, 23 fr Arten und 4 fr Unterarten). Zu 7 Taxa sind kurze Notizen ber Probleme ihrer Taxonomie oder Nomenklatur beigefgt. 
4180297| Species of the genus Veronica L. sect. Beccabunga (Hill) Dumort. were studied in Egypt. Key, description, taxonomic notes, and phytocartograms of the following taxa are given: V. anagalloides Guss. subsp. taeckholmiorum Chrtek et Osbornov-Kosinov, V. catenata Pennell subsp. pseudocatenata Chrtek et Osbornov-Kosinov, V. anagallis-aquatica L., V. kaiseri Tckholm V. in Laurent-Tckholm et Drar, and V. scardica Griseb. subsp. africana Chrtek et Osbornov-Kosinov. V. scardica Griseb. was misidentified previously as V. beccabunga L., which, as the study reveals, does not occur in Egypt. 
4181558| Several textbooks of phytocoenology (plant sociology) are compared. There seems to be a basic difference between Russian and Central European authors. The Russian authors (Naumova, Rabotnov) devote substantial parts of their textbooks to functional elements of communities (populations and consortias) and to their interactions. On the other hand, the Central European authors (Dieren, Dierschke, Moravec) devote a lot of space to methodology of community description. They deal with classification, syntaxonomy and mapping; their view of communities as units enables them to treat the relation to habitat factors extensively. 
4179544| In der vorgelegten Arbeit wird die syntaxonomische Problematik der natrlichen und naturnahen nitrophilen Saumgesellschaften der Verbnde Convolvulion sepium Tx. ex Oberd. 49 und Petasition officinalis Sillinger 33 em. Kopeck hoc loco gelst. Die znologische Charakteristik beider Verbnde erforderte bestimmte nderungen in der Abgrenzung der bergeordneten Vegetationseinheiten: Die Aufteilung der ursprnglichen Klasse Artemisietea vulgaris Lohm., Prsg. et Tx. 50 ist unvermeidlich. Die nitrophilen Gesellschaften auf feuchten bis frischen Bden, die frher zusammen mit den kologisch und znologisch sehr abweichenden Ruderalgesellschaften der Ordnung Onopordetalia Br.-Bl. et Tx. 43 em. Grs 66 in die Klasse Artemisietea vulgaris eingereiht wurden, sind neu in die gengend abgegrenzte Klasse Galio-Urticetea Passarge 67 em. Kopeck hoc loco eingegliedert. Nach der vorgeschlagenen Gliederung umfasst diese Klasse vier Ordnungen: 1. Convolvuletalia sepium Tx. 50 mit dem Verband Convolvulion sepium Tx. ex Oberd. 49, - [2.(?) Circaeo-Stachyetalia Passarge 67] - 3. Petasito-Chaerophylletalia Morariu 67 mit dem Verband Petasition officinalis Sillinger 33 em. Kopeck hoc loco, - 4. Lamio (albi) - Chenopodietalia (boni-henrici) ordo nova, die mehrere Einheitengruppen anthropisch bedingter nitrophiler Ersatzgesellschaften enthlt. In Bhmen, Mhren und der Westslowakei gehrt zu dem Convolvulion sepium-Verband nur eine einzige Gebietsassoziation, u. zw. das Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium Tx. 47 em. Kopeck hoc loco mit zwei Subassoziationen: Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium typicum subass. nova und Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium aristolochietosum subass. nova. - Der Verband Petasition officinalis Sillinger 33 em. Kopeck umfasst folgende vikarisierende Assoziationen: das westmitteleuropische Petasitetum hybridi Oberd. 49 em. Kopeck hoc loco, das karpatische Petasitetum officinalis-glabrati Sillinger 33 und das Petasito-Telekietum speciosae Morariu 67, das ausschliesslich in den ostslowakischen, ostpolnischen, sowjetischen und rumnischen Karpaten verbreitet ist. /// The nitrophilous marginal communities (German term "Saumgesellschaften") treated in the present paper are placed in the alliances Convolvulion sepium Tx. ex Oberd. 49 and Petasition officinalis Sillinger 33 em. Kopeck hoc loco. The Czechoslovak natural communities of the alliance Convolvulion sepium are determined by the following character species: Convolvulus sepium (opt.), Cuscuta europaea (opt.), Cuscuta lupuliformis, Cucubalus baccifer, Senecio fluviatilis, (Galega officinalis). In the Czechoslovakia, there occurs only one association: Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium Tx. 47 em. Kopeck hoc loco. It contains two subassociations: 1. the Northwest-Central European subass. Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium typicum and 2. the Southeast-European subass. Cuscuto-Convolvuletum sepium aristolochietosum. The communities Petasition officinalis Sillinger 33 em. Kopeck hoc loco are characterized by the following character species: Aconitum variegatum, Agropyrum caninum (opt.), Petasites hybridus (opt.), Petasites kablikianus, Orobanche flava and Telekia speciosa. In Bohemia, Moravia and Western Slovakia two associations occur, viz. Petasitetum hybridi Oberd. 49 em. Kopeck hoc loco (including two subassociations) and Petasitetum officinalis-glabrati Sillinger 33 (including two subassociations). The third association of the alliance, Petasito-Telekietum speciosae Morariu 67, occurs in Czechoslovakia only in the East-Slovakian Carpathians. The place of the units described in the recent phytocenological system: The splitting of the class Artemisietea vulgaris Lohm., Prsg. et Tx. 50 seems to be necessary and correct. According to the original description this class includes the group of ruderal communities occurring at dry and intensively insolated habitats (order Onopordetalia Br.-Bl. et Tx. 43 em. Grs 66) and the groups of nitrophilous communities growing at moist to fresh, shady to insolated habitats. The present paper transfers these last-mentioned community-units to the class Galio-Urticetea Passarge 67 em. Kopeck hoc loco. According to the systematic arrangement suggested here (see page 250), this class includes two groups: A. The group of natural to semi-natural marginal communities with the orders Convolvuletalia sepium Tx. 50 (with the alliance Convolvulion sepium) and [(?) Circaeo-Stachyetalia Passarge 67] and Petasito-Chaerophylletalia Morariu 67 (with the alliance Petasition officinalis); - B. The group of ruderal to semi-ruderal nitrophilous substitute communities which are identical with the new defined order Lamio (albi) - Chenopodietalia (boni-henrici). 
4179439| The paper presents the results of pollen analyses of samples collected from two peat localities in the Orlick hory mountains in Czechoslovakia. Appended pollen diagrams depict the vegetation and its changes in the Older and Younger Subatlantic period. The paper suggests the probable proportional representation of the principal woody plants in the area and, on the basis of pollen analyses, reconstructs the forest covers of the Orlick hory, especially of their upper regions. The author has found Fagus to have predominated among woody plants in the area (even in the upper regions) in the Older Subatlantic. From the 16th or 17th century onward it was gradually replaced by Picea. This change was primarily due to human activity (cutting down of the beeches). The composition of foot-hill forests, as far as it is reflected in the diagrams, is discussed. The pollen diagrams also testify to agricultural activity by man in the wide surroundings of the Orlick hory. /// In der Arbeit werden Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen zweier Torfprofile aus den Gebirgskmmen des Gebirges Orlick hory (Tschechoslowakei) vorgelegt. Die erzielten Diagramme umfassen die jngste Zeitperiode des Postglazials, d. h. das ltere und jngere Subatlantikum. Es wurde festgestellt, dass hnlich wie in den brigen Sudeten auch im Gebirge Orlick hory die Buche als kennzeichnende Pflanze wuchs, die zusammen mit der Tanne und der Fichte Mischwlder auch in hchsten Berglagen bildete. In diesem Zeitabschnitt kann eine selbstndige, klimatish bedingte Fichtenstufe pollenanalytisch nicht bewiesen werden und man kann voraussetzen, dass die Fichtenbestnde nur einen Saum um die Moorlager bildeten oder dass sie die vernssten Bden bewuchsen. Zur Umwandlung der ursprnglichen Buchen-Tannenwlder mit der Fichte in die heutigen Fichtenwlder - welche stellenweise einen natrlichen Charakter aufweisen - kam es hchstwahrscheinlich an der Wende des XVI-XVII Jhdts, und zwar vor allem durch menschliche Eingriffe (Ausrodung der Buche fr die Htten- und Glaswerke und der Tanne als Bauholz). Die nachfolgende Expansion der Fichte wurde dann auch durch das in diesem Zeitabschnitt rauher gewordene Klima gefrdert. In der jngsten Zeit ist die Ausbreitung der Fichte auch durch die einseitige Einstellung der Waldzchtung bedingt. Aus den Diagrammen gehen auch einige Erkenntnisse ber die Waldzusammensetzung in Vorgebirgslagen hervor, in denen die Eiche, die Hainbuche und die Linde, ferner als Beimischung bestimmt Pinus, Fagus and Abies, eine fhrende Rolle spielten. Die Pollenanalysen geben auch ein Bild ber die landwirtschaftliche Ttigkeit des Menschen in verschiedenen Etappen nach der Ansiedlung. Man drfte vermuten, dass in der ersten Zeit ausser des Ackerbaues auch die Weidewirtschaft ein wichtiger Faktor der Landwirtschaft war, welcher erst spter dem Getreideanbau wich. Ferner wurde bewiesen, dass frher einige Kulturpflanzen (Weinrebe, Fagopyrum, u. a.) angebaut wurden, die heute im Gebirge Orlick hory nicht mehr gezchtet werden. 
4180708| Red and blue flowered pimpernels commonly referred to Anagallis arvensis s. l. were studied in Egypt, Iraq, and adjacent territories. Key, description, taxonomic, chorological, ecological notes, and phytocartograms of the following taxa growing or expected in Egypt are given: Anagallis arvensis L. var. arvensis, A. latifolia L., A. arvensis L. var. caerulea (L.) Gouan, and A. foemina Mill. New hybrid Anagallis  hadidii Chrtek et Osbornov-Kosinov (A. arvensis L. var. arvensis  A. latifolia L.) is described. 
4180761| The originally monotypic family Gomphillaceae W. Wats. ex Haf. 1984 (Type = Gomphillus Nyl.) is here enlarged to accomodate nine additional genera: Aulaxina Fe, Calenia Mll. Arg. em. Sant., Echinoplaca Fe em. Sant., Gyalectidium Mll. Arg., Gyalideopsis Vzda, Tricharia Fe em. Sant. (all previously considered as a group of related genera in the family Asterothyriaceae), and Actinoplaca Mll. Arg., as well as two new genera described here, Bullatina Vzda et Poelt and Caleniopsis Vzda et Poelt. Particular attention is given to the diversity of the structure of the hyphophores which are specific to all the genera now included in the family Gomphillaceae and therefore assist in the accurate delimitation of these genera. A short description of each genus is appended, together with a list of species included. A key to the genera is presented and their interrelationships discussed. /// In die ursprnglich monotypische Flechtenfamilie Gomphillaceae W. Wats. ex Haf. 1984 (Typus-Gattung: Gomphillus Nyl.) werden weitere 9 Gattungen eingereiht: Aulaxina Fe, Calenia Mll. Arg. em. Sant., Echinoplaca Fe, Gyalectidium Mll. Arg., Gyalideopsis Vzda, Tricharia Fe em. Sant. (diese Gattungen sind schon frher als eine Gruppe von enger verwandten Genera in der Familie Asterothyriaceae betrachtet worden), Actinoplaca Mll. Arg., und die neuen Genera Bullatina (Gen. n.) und Caleniopsis (Gen. n.). Die emendierte Familie Gomphillaceae wird charakterisiert folgendermassen: Ascocarpien vom Apothecium-Typ (biatorin bis lecidein); Excipulum und Hymenium durch dnne, verzweigte und anastomosierende Hyphen in reicher Gelatine gebaut; Asci mit fissitunicaten (bitunicaten) Ascuswnden (Exotunica dnn, Endotunica mit apicalen Verdickungen); J - (nicht blau); Ascosporen zu 1-8 im Ascus, hyalin, querseptiert bis mauerfrmig geteilt nach den Arten; auf dem Lager mit asexuellen Vermehrungsorganen, s.g. Hyphophoren, die je ein oder mehrere Bschel von Diahyphen tragen, bei einigen Gattungen mit kleinen Algenzellen zwischen den Diahyphen. Nher wurden diese verschiedlich gebauten Hyphophoren, die spezifisch bei allen Genera vorkommen, behandelt; sie ermglichen eine genauere Abgrenzung der einzelnen Genera. Die Gattungen werden charakterisiert, die Arten aufgezhlt. Die verwandtschaftlichen Beziehungen zwischen den Gattungen wurden kurz besprochen. Ein Schlssel fr die Bestimmung der Genera ist beigefgt. 
4181412|Why some plants are damaged by flooding and others are not, is not a question that can be answered by citing any one particular mechanism or sequence of events. Flood-tolerant plants like obligate aquatic species can survive inundation but differ in that they are also adapted to withstand the consequences of becoming unflooded. Flooding implies a transitory state so that when water tables drop, adapted species have to be able to survive being deprived of the physical support of flood-water as well as re-exposure to a normal air supply. A review of flooding tolerance mechanisms reveals that tolerant species combine a range of adaptations which, depending on the life strategy of the species, can play different roles in enabling intact plants to adjust to both rising and falling water levels. Flooding is also a seasonal stress with many temperate plant communities being subjected to high water tables in winter. The mechanisms that confer tolerance of winter flooding also differ from those that allow plants to grow when flooded during the growing season. This review argues therefore, that reductionist investigations, which examine isolated organs or individual processes, may not be the most suitable method to apply to understanding the complexity of reactions that are needed to survive flooding. Instead, a holistic approach is advocated which examines the reactions of whole plants to changing water levels at different seasons of the year.
4179656| Die neue Assoziation des Verbandes Sparganio-Glycerion Br.-Bl. et Sissingh apud Boer 1942, das Glycerietum nemoralis-plicatae, ist in der submontanen bis montanen Stufe des stlichen Teils der Tschechoslowakei verbreitet. Ihre Bestnde sind optimal auf lehmsandigen rezenten Anschwemmungen der Karpatenbche und Quellrinnen (semimerse bis demerse Uferkotope des stenosaleutischen Ufertyps) entwickelt. /// The new association of the alliance Sparganio-Glycerion Br.-Bl. et Sissingh apud Boer 1942, the Glycerietum nemoralis-plicatae ass. nova, is distributed in the montane and submontane zones of the Czechoslovak West Carpathians. It was observed on the upper course of the Bl Orava River (Oravsk Magura Mountains) and on the middle and lower courses of the brooks Studen and Oravica (W. part of the High Tatra Mountains). Stands are developed on clayish-sandy brook deposits and around spring sites. The most constant and dominant species here is the characteristic species of the association, Glyceria nemoralis Uechtr. et Krn. Of the characteristic species of the alliance, only Veronica beccabunga L. and Glyceria plicata Fries are represented with the highest constancy (IV to V). 
4179441| Five new species and two varieties from the section Multifidae are described from the Sino-Himalayan region. They are referred to the affinity of P. multifida L. and P. griffithii Hook. f.; one of the new species is probably related to P. gerardiana Lindl. and one is intermediate between the species of the sections Multifidae and Niveae. /// In der Arbeit werden zwei Arten und zwei Varietten aus der weiteren Verwandtschaft von P. multifida L. beschrieben. Es sind dies P. exigua (Nepal, Tibet), P. karakoramica (Kaschmir), P. ornithopoda Tausch var. impexa (Kaschmir) und P. plurijuga Hand.-Mazz. var. lhasana (Tibet, Nepal). Aus Tibet wird P. caliginosa beschrieben, die nahe Beziehungen zu den Arten der Sektion Niveae aufweist, sich jedoch durch gefiederte Bltter kennzeichnet. P. spodiochlora sp. n. (Nepal, Bhutan) steht morphologisch zwischen P. griffithii Hook. f. und der chinesischen P. concolor Rolfe. P. mutabilis sp. n. (Kaschmir, Tibet) erinnert durch ihren Habitus P. approximata Bge., deren Areal seinen Schwerpunkt in Sdsibirien besitzt. 
4179974| Die submontanen krautreichen Buchenwlder auf Silikatbden in der westlichen Tschechoslowakei (Tschechische Sozialistische Republik) zerfallen in vier Assoziationen: 1. Tilio cordatae-Fagetum Mrz 1960 em. Moravec 1977, 2. Tilio platyphylli-Fagetum Klika 1939, 3. Melico-Fagetum Seibert 1954 und 4. Carici pilosae-Fagetum Oberdorfer 1957. Das Tilio cordatae-Fagetum ist an niedrigere Berglnder Mittel-, Sd- und Westbhmens gebunden. Das Tilio platyphylli-Fagetum ist eine lokal bedingte Assoziation des Westteils des Gebirges esk stedoho. Das Melico-Fagetum kommt in Nord- bis Ostbhmen und Nord- und Mittelmhren vor. Das Carici pilosae-Fagetum ist auf die Karpaten beschrnkt (ausnahmsweise greift es auf den Ostrand des Bhmischen Hochlandes ber). Die Buchenwlder des Hgellandes bei Jevany (Mittelbhmen) und des Gebirges elezn hory gehren, trotz dem Vorkommen in submontanen Lagen, dem Dentario enneaphylli-Fagetum Oberdorfer ex W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960 an. Die Zusammensetzung der Assoziationen ist durch pflanzensoziologische Tabellen belegt und ihre Verbreitung auf einer Punktkarte erfasst. /// The submontane herb-rich beech forests (or lime-beech or fir-beech forests) on silicate soils in western Czechoslovakia (Czech Socialist Republic) split into four associations: 1. Tilio cordatae-Fagetum Mrz 1960 em. Moravec 1977 - this association comprises the submontane herb-rich beech, lime-beech, or fir-beech forests of central, western and southern Bohemia. They formed (or still form where preserved) the climax vegetation on silicate soils in the submontane belt of lower highlands in the above area. Fagus sylvatica predominates in the tree layer accompanied irregularly by Carpinus betulus. Tilia cordata, Quercus petraea or Abies alba (recently retreating). The herb layer consists mainly of the Fagetalia character species, the Fagion species are less numerous (Dentaria bultifera, Actaea spicata, Prenanthes purpurea). The differential species group compared with other beech forest associations is composed of Zerna benekenii, Cardamine impatiens, Vicia sylvatica and Campanula trachelium. The species composition of this association in individual territories is documented in synoptic tables of the published sets of relevs (49 relevs) and in relev tables with 35 author's relevs. The Tilio cordatae-Fagetum occurred (or still occurs) in larger or smaller islands either on higher elevations as the climax community conditioned macroclimatically or on slopes of northern orientation conditioned microclimatically. It seldom occurs as the subclimax on steep slopes with ranker-braunerde. This association has been found in Bohemia only, in the hilly land Stedoesk pahorkatina, in the hilly land Vrchovina Berounky, on the ridge Lovsk prh and on the northern border of the Doupovsk hory Mts. It is concentrated between 400 and 600 m and shows a significant preference for slopes of northern orientation. The Tilio cordatae-Fagetum occupies waste mantle of the Pleistocene age on silicate rocks of various trophic degree (except those poor in bases) where soils belonging to the Centro-European braunerde (mainly to the mesotrophic variant) developed. 2. Tilio platyphylli-Fagetum Klika 1939 - represents a locally conditioned association which occurs on volcanic hills in the western part of the esk stedoho Mts. The tree layer is composed of four species on the average - Fagus sylvatica predominates Tilia platyphyllos, Quercus petraea and Tilia cordata are mixed in. The shrub layer is fairly regularly present, however, with a low cover degree; it is composed primarily of Lonicera xylosteum, Daphne mezereum and Ribes uva-crispa. In the herb layer the Fagetalia species mostly participate. The Fagion species are also quite numerous (Actaea spicata, Hordelymus europaeus, Prenanthes purpurea); they meet with some character species of the Carpinion (Stellaria holostea, Galium sylvaticum). Tilia platyphyllos, Lonicera xylosteum, Stellaria holostea, Galium sylvaticum and Convallaria majalis, can be considered the differential species compared with other beech forest associations. The species composition of this association is documented by synoptic tables of the published sets of relevs (16 relevs) and by 8 author's relevs. The Tilio platyphylli-Fagetum occurs in small islands in microclimatically favoured sites within a Carpinion territory with complicated geology and varied countryside. This is reflected also in the species composition; the coppice management of the stands probably contributed to enrichment in thermo- or heliophilous species. 3. Melico-Fagetum Seibert 1954 - encompasses Melica uniflora dominated beech forests which settled or still settle silicate soils in the submontane belt of northern to eastern Bohemia and northern and central Moravia as climax communities. The tree layer is dominated by Fagus sylvatica to which Acer pseudoplatanus, Carpinus batulus, rarely Abies alba (recently retreating) and Ulmus glabra admix with a lower constancy. The herb layer is characterized by a lower species number and by a predominance of Melica uniflora. It is composed mainly of the Fagetalia species, the Fagion species are less represented (Dentaria bulbifera, Festuca altissima, Hordelymus europaeus). The species composition of the association in western Czechoslovakia is documented by 14 author's relevs; some individual relevs have been published from northern and eastern Bohemia only. The Melico-Fagetum has been found in the Luick hory Mts., in the hilly land Ralsk vrchovina, in the mountains Nzk Jesenk and Odersk vrchy and in the highland Drahansk vrchovina. It occurs as a climax community primarily at altitudes of 400 to 600 m (seldom higher) and prefers deeper soils of the meso- to oligotrophic Centro-European braunerde on a flat senile relief showing no preference for a certain exposure. On the steeper volcanic hills. in northern Bohemia the association forms small islands confined to deeper weathered soils. 4. Carici pilosae-Fagetum Oberdorfer 1957 - in western Czechoslovakia this represents an association of herb-rich climax beech forests on silicate soils in the submontane belt of the western Carpathians. The tree layer consists almost solely of deciduous trees among which Fagus sylvatica predominates accompanied constantly by Quercus petraea. The herb layer is not too rich in species; in its species composition the Fagetalia species predominate in number whereas of the Fagion only Dentaria bulbifera achieves a higher constancy. Carex pilosa (dominant), Cephalanthera longifolia and Tithymalus amygdaloides can be considered the differential species compared with other beech forest associations. This association has not hitherto been published from Czechoslovakia. It is documented by 29 relevs 24 of which are new. The Carici pilosae-Fagetum has been found already exclusively in the Carpathians; as an exception it penetrates into the southeastern margin of the highland Drahansk vrchovina. This association does not occur in Bohemia. In the Moravian Carpathians the Carici pilosae-Fagetum has been attested in the highland Chiby, in the Bl Karpaty Mts. and in the hill group of Malenk. It occurs mainly at altitudes between 400 and 600 m of various exposure; in lower altitudes it descends into northern slopes. This association occupies mild slopes or flat ridges with deep soils belonging to the Centro-European braunerde (mostly to the mesotrophic variant). 5. A more detail comparison of some herb-rich beech forests occurring in submontane sites has shown their appurtenance to the Dentario enneaphylli-Fagetum Oberdorfer ex W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960. The beech forests under consideration occur in the hilly land near Jevany (Central Bohemia) and in the elezn hory Mts. 
4180315| A cytogeographical and morphological (fruit-types and leaf-shape) study of the critical Rumex acetosella aggregate has been made on the basis of 38 population samples, for the most part from the Czech Socialistic Republic. In the genecological respect the populations from Bohemia and those from North and West Moravia fit into the pattern earlier found in West and Central Europe (i.e. they are 6, mainly angiocarpous, and have non-dissected leaf lobes). Samples from the xerothermic region of South Moravia and parts of Slovakia and adjacent Austria are thought to be related to the Balkan population group (mainly 4, gymnocarpous and with much dissected - multifid - leaf lobes). Evidence of introgressive hybridisation from the 4 into the 6 ploidy-level has been found in the region of the well known migration route through the Moravian Gate. 
4179611|The author discusses the nomenclature of the species Geastrum fimbriatum Fr.; shows why it is not possible to apply the name Geastrum rufescens Pers. ex Pers. to this species and maintains the use of the name Geastrum sessile (Sow.) Pouz., which is here proposed as a new combination.
4181306|The interactions between field layer vascular plants and Sphagnum mosses in peat-forming systems are discussed in terms of differences in growth strategies, access to light, acquisition of mineral nutrients and water and the processes involved in the formation of the micro-topographical structures characteristic for these systems. To keep pace with the vertical growth of Sphagnum, the co-occurring vascular plants require a growth strategy involving continuous movement of the growing point and meristematic tissue upwards and a frequent formation of adventitious roots. The growth form and architecture of the vascular plants determine the occurrence and distribution of the structural units on a mire, the hummocks, lawns and hollows. Dwarf shrubs and other vascular plants with an orthotropic growth pattern characterise hummocks, where they form a firm matrix which reinforces and supports the spongy biomass of Sphagnum. In a similar way, clonal herbs stabilise the lawns because of the predominantly plagiotropic, or only weakly orthotropic, growth pattern of the rhizomes and coarse roots in the upper, oxic layers. Extended periods of drought often may have deleterious effects on the mosses but smaller impacts on the vascular plants because of their more efficient water conducting system. Different sources of mineral nutrients are used by Sphagnum (atmospheric deposition) and the vascular plants (mineralisation of the organic matter). The presence of Sphagnum, therefore, reduces the supply of nutrient resources to the vascular plants. Sphagnum thereby gains a competitive advantage. A high rate of mineralisation would be beneficial to the vascular plants by increasing their growth rates causing shading of the Sphagnum mosses and covering the moss layer by the above-ground litter fall. However, the slow decomposition of Sphagnum litter keeps the system in balance as it will reduce the nutrient supply to the vascular plants.
4181066|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat et Moravec 1990a), the present work collects the syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1988. The list comprises 27 syntaxa.
4179488| Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit den phytoznologischen Verhltnissen und der kologie der Tannen- und Schuttwlder in den Durchbruchstlern der mittleren Lunice und oberen Moldau in Sdbhmen. Die Schuttwlder werden durch die Ass. Querco robori-Aceretum reprsentiert, die vorwiegend im Tale der Lunice in zwei Subassoziationen u. zw. typicum und lunarietosum verbreitet ist. In den Gesellschaften der Tannenhangwlder auf nichtvernssten Bden wurden zwei Assoziationen unterschieden; krautreiche Linden-Tannenwlder reprsentiert die Ass. Tilio-Abietetum mit Subass. typicum, stellarietosum und lunarietosum, die zum Verband Tilio-Acerion Klika 1955 gehrt, azidophile Tannenwlder die Ass. Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum, die in den Verband Luzulo-Fagion Lohm. et Txen 1954 in Txen 1954 eingereiht wird. /// At the edge of the area of the alliance Carpinion in southern Bohemia the floristic differentiation of the natural forest communities takes place. This differentiation is characterized by the rise of some new associations (subassociations). In the valleys of the rivers Lunice-between Tbor and Beice-and Vltava-between esk Krumlov and Kamenn jezd-the following forest communities have been described: Querco robori-Aceretum, Tilio-Abietetum and Deschampsio flexuosae-Abietetum. All associations described are distributed in the middle or lower parts of the steep shaded slopes or in small narrow canyons at an altitude of about 410-600 m above sea level. The Querco robori-Aceretum is represented by maple forests with oak on the talus slopes in the warmer part of the valley of the Lunice river. This association belongs to the alliance Tilio-Acerion Klika 1955. It is divided into two subassociations: Querco robori-Aceretum typicum and Querco robori-Aceretum lunarietosum. The Querco robori-Acertum typicum occurs on soils of the mesotrophic or eutrophic braunerde, the Querco robori-Aceretum lunarietosum prefers soils of the ranker-braunerde. The association Tilio-Abietetum represents the natural herb-rich fir forest. This association is divided, according to floristic composition and habitat, into three subassociations: typicum, stellarietosum and lunarietosum. The Tilio-Abietetum stellarietosum occurs on the slopes above the left bank of the Lunice river, the Tilio-Abietetum typicum reaches its full development in the upper part of the valley of the Vltava river. Typical habitats of the subassociation Tilio-Abietetum lunarietosum are the steep slopes or the lower parts of the small narrow shady canyons on the right bank of the Vltava river between Zlat Koruna and Kamenn jezd. The soil type of the subassociations Tilio-Abietetum stellarietosum and Tilio-Abietetum typicum is the eutrophic or mesotrophic variant of braunerde, the soil subtype of the subassociation Tilio-Abietetum lunarietosum is ranker-braunerde. The A-horizon of the soils of the Tilio-Abietetum shows favourable physical and chemical properties-a higher content of exchangeable Ca
4181118| Use of morphological, karyological and enzymatic approaches in the study of 11 populations of Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud. originating from different geographic areas, climates and ecological conditions reveals a spatial differentiation of populations. There is no relationship between the two levels of ploidy, 2n=48 and 2n=96, and the habitat. In contrast, the climate and environmental conditions act to the selection of the well-adapted genotypes. So, the considerable phenotypic variability of P. australis is due to a high adaptability and an important genetic diversity. /// Onze populations de Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud. provenant de zones gographiques, de climats et de conditions cologiques diffrentes sont analyses sur les plans morphologique, caryologique et enzymatiques. Les deux niveaux de plodie dtermins, 2n=48 et 2n=96, ne sont pas en relation directe avec l'habitat. Les descripteurs de la vigueur des pousses sont corrls positivement et seraient lis aux conditions trophiques. L'analyse en composantes principales effectue  partir des donns biomtriques isole les populations selon un gradient cologique et climatique. Les zymogrammes obtenus pour six systmes enzymatiques rvlent une grande variabilit interpopulationnelle. Leur tude par l'analyse factorielle des correspondances et par la classification ascendante hirarchique montre une diffrenciation cologique et gographique des populations. Ces rsultats suggrent que la grande adaptabilit du P. australis est due  une forte htrozygotie et  une importante diversit gntique. 
4179804| Three new species of Cryptocoryne are described, based on material received from unspecified localities in tropical Asia. Crytocoryne hejni Rataj and C. zukalii Rataj differ from C. cor data Griff. by the non-infundibuliform gorge of the upper tube and by the colour of the limb of spathe. C. evae Rataj is one of the largest species of the genus and is related to C. siemensis Gagn. and C. zonata De Wit. It differs from C. siemensis and C. blasii by the limb of spathe which is twice as broad and long, and by the coloured inner part of the kettle, from C. zonata by the shape of the leaf-blades. 
4179675|Four species of the genus Brachysporium Sacc. emend. Mason et Hughes are treated in this paper from Czechoslovakia: B. nigrum (Link) Hughes, B. obovatum (Berk.) Sacc. and two new species, B. abietinum Hol.-Jech. and B. brevius Hol.-Jech.
4180092| In den Herbarien der botanischen Abteilung des Nationalmuseums in Prhonice (PR) werden zwei Belege aufbewahrt, die von Rohlena als Draba athoa Boiss. bezeichnet sind. Spter ordnete Rohlena selbst diese Pflanzen der Art D. elongata Host mit Bezeichnung var. skrivanekii Rohl. zu. Durch eine Analyse des Herbarmaterials hat sich erwiesen, dass es sich um eine selbstndige Art - Draba skrivanekii (Rohl.) Chrtek - handelt, die in den Gebirgslagen Montenegros (Kom Vasojeviki) wahrscheinlich endemisch ist. Die nchstverwandte Art ist Draba athoa (Griseb.) Boiss. 
25130306|Pollen of 110 species from 18 genera in the Portulacaceae has been examined by light and scanning electron microscopy, and a representative number by transmission electron microscopy. Three basic pollen types were found: 3-colpate with thick tectum and foot layer with prominent unbranched columellae and an extremely thin endexine; pantoporate with thick tectum and foot layer with branched columellae enclosing pores and an endexine that is one to two layers thick; pantocolpate with thin tectum and foot layer with broad, short unbranched columellae and an inconspicuous endexine. All pollen types, however, have a spinulose and tubuliferous/punctate ektexine. Also, all the genera except three, Calandrinia H.B.K., Montia L. and Talinum Adanson are stenopalynous. There is, however, no absolute correlation between pollen morphology and geographical distribution, although both the major centre of palynological diversity and the majority of all species with tricolpate grains occur in South America.
4181420|Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud. is a perennial plant, largely relying on its rhizomes for resource storage, spreading and anchorage in the substrate. Vertical distribution and length of horizontal rhizomes of Phragmites australis were investigated at the reed bed edge in a lake in southern Sweden. In deep water, horizontal rhizomes were relatively short and superficially situated in the substrate. It is hypothesised that this is an adaptation to water depth by keeping
4180352| Scirpus maritimus is widely distributed in the Camarque, South of France. Two dense homogenous stands of this helophyte (P. R.: Petit Rige and B. C.: Baisse des Courlis) were compared throughout the 1978 growing season. 
4179469| Eine taxonomische Studie ber die Gattung Sagiolechia Massal. als weiterer Teil einer Revision der Familie Gyalectaceae sensu Zahlbruckner wird vorgelegt. /// Le genre Sagiolechia Massal. 1854 tait  l'origine monotypique [avec l'espce S. protuberans (Ach.) Massal.]. Plus tard cinq autres espces furent dcrites comme Sagiolechia ou intgres  ce genre. D'aprs les rsultats de nos recherches, deux de celles-ci [S. cimbrica Massal. 1855 et S. leioplacoides (Vain.) Vain. 1921] ne sont que des formes cologiques de S. protuberans, deux autres [S. fusiformis (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr. 1905 et S. leptoplacella (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr. 1921] appartiennent a d'autres genres, et il n'y a qu'une qui est vritablement un Sagiolechia [S. rhexoblephara (Nyl.) Zahlbr. 1912]. Dans la classification de Zahlbruckner, Sagiolechia a t place dans la famille des Gyalectaces. Mais la structure des ascocarps est fondamentalement diffrente chez Sagiolechia et chez les Gyalectaces typiques: les Sagiolechia sont donc sans affinits relles avec ces dernires. Par contre quelques caractres anatomiques voir l'ontognie des ascocarpes montrent que Sagiolechia a des liens de parent certains avec les Graphidaces. 
4180607|Successional stages of the xeric series of old-fields in the Bohemian Karst have been studied from the point of view of disturbance of plant communities by different intensities of mowing. Changes of biomass, diversity and population structure have been examined. The communities of younger successional stages are relatively more disturbed but they are able to reestablish themselves rather quickly. The communities of the older stages are characterized by a slower rate of recovery. The stability of younger stages may be understood as resilience and stability of older stages as resistance.
4180678| Six new genera are designated for the predominantly foliicolous species with hyaline, septate ascospores originally included in the artificial genera Bacidia, Catillaria and Lopadium. These are Fellhanera gen. n. which, on the basis of ascus structure, belongs to the family Pilocarpaceae and includes 19 species, as well as Badimia gen. n. (6 species), Barubria gen. n. (1 species), Loflammia gen. n. (3 species), Calopadia gen. n. (6 species) and Logilvia gen. n. (1 species) which with the previously described genera Lasioloma R. Sant. and Tapellaria Mll. Arg. em. R. Sant. are classified in the family Ectolechiaceae as they are related to Sporopodium Mont. The campylidia, special reproductive organs of the lichens concerned, are present in all members of the family. They are considered to be phylogenetically derived from apothecia. The conidia they produce vary in shape and structure and can be divided into different types, each of which is characteristic of a particular genus. The necessary new combinations are introduced in an appendix. /// Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit der Systematik der berwiegend foliicolen Arten der Sammelgattungen Catillaria, Bacidia und Lopadium, die sich durch paraplectenchymatisch gebaute Excipula, relativ dnne, einfache bis reich verzweigte und netzartig verbundene Paraphysen, keulige Asci mit J+ blauem Tholi und septierte hyaline Ascosporen auszeichnen; fr sie wurde schon frher eine neue Gattung Lobaca ad interim vorgeschlagen (Vzda 1983). Anhand ihrer Ascusstrukturen werden die Lobaca-Arten nun in zwei Gruppen geteilt. Die erste mit Ascusstrukturen vom Byssoloma-Typus (sec. Hafellner 1984) wird als neue Gattung Fellhanera (gen. n.) der Familie Pilocarpaceae beschrieben. Die Arten der zweiter Gruppe mit Ascusstrukturen vom Sporopodium-Typus (sec. Hafellner 1984) schliessen sich nahe an die Gattungen Sporopodium Mont. em. R. Sant., Tapellaria Mll. Arg. em. R. Sant. und Lasioloma R. Sant. an; sie werden nun in 5 neue Gattungen gegliedert: Badimia gen. n., Barubria gen. n., Loflammia gen. n., Calopadia gen. n. und Logilvia gen. n. Die Verwandtschaft aller der schon existierenden sowie der hier neu aufgestellten Gattungen wird durch das Vorkommen von speziellen Conidiomata, s.g. Campylidien, dokumentiert. Die Campylidien, die oft fr Fruchtkrper parasitischer oder parasymbiotischer Fungi imperfecti angesehen wurden, werden nun als phylogenetisch von den Apothecien abgeleitete Organe der Flechte anerkannt. Sie lassen sich nach Bau und Form ihrer Conidien in mehrere Typen gliedern; jeder Gattung entspricht ein bestimmter Typus. Es hat sich weiter als vllig berechtigt erwiesen, alle Campylidie-tragenden Gattungen in eine Familie einzureihen, fr die der Name Ectolechiaceae Zahlbr. em. Hafellner vorgeschlagen wird. Im Anhang werden neue Art-Kombinationen gegeben. 
4180358|Misra et Misra (1981) have concluded, on the basis of an analysis of a grassland community, that there is significant negative correlation between species diversity and dominance indices. It is shown that this result is an unfortunate misunderstanding because negative correlation is an inevitable consequence of indices definitions. Some other shortcomings concerning diversity, stability and species-abundance distributions, contained in the paper, are pointed out.
4179507|Two new species, Campanula gentilis and C. gelida, are described and two new combinations, C. moravica (Spitzner) comb. nova and C. moravica subsp. xylorrhiza (O. Schwarz) comb. nova, are proposed.
4179824| Der sechste Beitrag aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) enthlt die taxonomische Bearbeitung des Subg. Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. (Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum.) in Europa (inkl. Kaukasus und Kleinasien) und Nordamerika. Im genannten Gebiet kommen 10 Arten vor, u. zw. J. caespiticia Lindenb., J. caucasica Va, J. confertissima Nees, J. gracillima Sm., J. handelii (Schiffn.) Amak., J. jenseniana Grolle, J. lignicola (Schiffn.) Grolle, J. pyriflora Steph., J. rubra Gott. ex Und. und J. sphaerocarpa Hook. Die Art J. confertissima Nees (bisher als Solenostoma levieri (Steph.) Steph. bezeichnet) gehrt zu der Sektion Desmorhiza Amak., alle anderen Arten gehren zu der Sektion Solenostoma. /// The sixth study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. keys (based on fertile and sterile plants) to the European (incl. Caucasia and Asia Minoi) and North American species of the subgenus Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. (genus Jungermannia L. emend. Dum.). 2. Synonymy, drawings and descriptions of nine species of the subgenus Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. growing in the above area. There are also data on the type specimens, exsiccata, ecology, geographical distribution, variation, taxonomy and relationships of these taxa. The species J. pyriflora Steph. has been studied by Amakawa (1960) and Schuster (1969). 3. Discussion of all infraspecific taxa on the basis of the concept of habitat modifications. Taxonomically, J. caespiticia Lindenb., J. caucasica Va, J. confertissima Nees, J. gracillima Sm., J. handelii (Schiffn.) Amak., J. jenseniana Grolle, J. lignicola (Schiffn.) Grolle, J. pyriflora Steph., J. rubra Gott. ex Und. and J. sphaerocarpa Hook. are treated as good species, other taxa as the habitat modifications. Some names are relegated to the synonymy. 
4181426|During the last few years alder has declined in South Bohemia. The possible role of mycorrhizal and actinorhizal symbioses is reviewed and some of the preliminary results from experiments testing the influence of these symbioses on alder growth and the influence of eutrophication on the development of these symbioses are reported. Seedlings of Alnus glutinosa were inoculated with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi and the actinomycete Frankia in experiment 1, and with rhizosphere soil collected from field sites with different degrees of alder damage in experiment 2. In both experiments, a solution containing nitrate, ammonia and phosphorus in concentrations simulating eutrophic waters, was applied. Both symbioses markedly promoted the growth of the seedlings in experiment 1. The plants inoculated with the rhizosphere soil microflora in experiment 2 were larger than the control plants. Response of the seedlings to the inoculation with the soil from the rhizosphere of damaged alder trees from six field sites differs, even though no correlation was found relating growth to the health status of the trees. Nutrient treatment did not have any effect on the growth of seedlings in either experiment. The dry weight of Frankia was greater in mycorrhizal plants compared to nonmycorrhizal plants and mycorrhizal colonization is reduced in Frankia inoculated plants supplemented with phosphorus in experiment 1. Nitrogen enhanced mycorrhizal colonization in nodulated plants which were not supplemented with phosphorus no effect of nitrogen on actinorhiza was observed.
4180737| Nine species of Byssoloma Trevisan (Pilocarpaceae) are reported from a collection of foliicolous lichens from Zaire, and include B. murinum sp. n. In addition, B. usambarense sp. n. is described from adjacent Tanzania. A determination key is provided to all the known African species, and each species is briefly characterized. /// Die foliicolen Funde der Byssoloma-Arten aus Zaire werden taxonomisch und geographisch behandelt. Folgende Ergebnisse der Untersuchungen werden vorgelegt: 1. Das byssoide Excipulargeflecht und die einheitlichen Strukturen der Asci sprechen fr die schon frher vorgeschlagene Einreihung der Gattung Byssoloma in eine selbstndige Familie Pilocarpaceae. 2. Von den 10 in Afrika festgestellten und im Bestimmungsschlssel angefhrten Arten wurden 9 in Zaire gefunden. 3. Neu werden beschrieben: Byssoloma murinum Vzda (sp. n.) aus Zaire und B. usambarense Vzda (sp. n.) aus Tansania. 4. Im Anhang werden 2 foliicole Bacidia-Arten behandelt: Bacidia africana Vzda, die gewisse Beziehungen zu Byssoloma aufweist, und B. palmularis (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr., die habituell mit ihrem byssoiden Geflecht an die Apothecien einer Byssoloma-Art erinnert, aber nach ihren sonstigen Merkmalen nichts mit Byssoloma zu tun hat. Alle Arten werden in Kurzdiagnosen vorgestellt; die bisher bekannten Funde werden zusammengestellt. 
4181417|This paper shows the effect of re-aeration following hypoxic pretreatment on the glutathione system in plants with different flooding tolerance. Re-aeration of hypoxically pretreated roots led to an increase of TBA-rm content indicating an accelerated lipid peroxidation (post-anoxic injury). Re-admission of oxygen resulted in a clear increase in the content of total glutathione in both flooding-intolerant species Myosotis arvensis and Senecio jacobaea. Simultaneously, the high ratio between reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) glutathione decreased in these species upon the onset of re-aeration, while the tolerant Myosotis palustris and Senecio aquaticus showed only little changes in contents of GSH and GSSG. An imbalance in GSH/GSSG ratio reflects oxidative stress. The glutathione reductase (GR) reacted very differently in the investigated genera. The metabolic response to varying oxygen pressure is much stronger in the flooding-intolerant species compared to species naturally growing in wetlands. The present results suggest that glutathione system is an important component in overcoming oxidative stress.
4181555|The leaf non-structural carbohydrate (NSC) content and total non-structural carbohydrate content (TNC) were measured on a dry weight basis and on a leaf area basis in three altitudinal (3100, 3550 and 4200 m a.s.l.) populations of E. schultzii. The values of leaf dry weight per area (LWA) increase with altitude. The leaf non-structural carbohydrate content (expressed as g/kg dry weight) does not show statistically significant difference among populations, but the values expressed on an area basis
4180712| A new subspecies of Cardamine pratensis L. subsp. major Tomovic, and a new hybrid Cardamine  smejkalii Tomovic from the Cardamine pratensis complex are described. Both new taxa are defined morphologically, karyologically and by their ecological characteristics. 
4180636|Alases are unique grassland landscapes in Central Yacutia, their development influenced by extra-continental arid climate. Twenty three associations have been distinguished and described. These associations form an ecological series from steppe with Festuca lenensis and Stipa krylovii through salt and swamp meadow (Hordeum brevisubulatum, Puccinellia tenuiflora, Alopecurus arundinaceus, Calamagrostis langsdorffii, Carex juncella) to swamp communities of Scolochloa festucacea, Glyceria triflora, Scirpus lacustris and Typha latifolia. The community complexes of specific elements of alas landscapes - baidjerakhs and bulgunnyakhs - are analysed.
4181249| Allozyme techniques, karyotype analyses and cultivation experiments were carried out on 20 population samples of Taraxacum sect. Piesis (Compositae), viz. T. bessarabicum (17 samples from W. and C. Europe, Ukraine and Crimea, Central Asia and the Altai), T. salsum from Crimea, T.  mesohalobium from Crimea, and T. stenolepium from the Caucasus. The taxa studied share a primitive, symmetrical karyotype. All taxa studied are sexual, T. bessarabicum mostly autogamous. Sexuality at the tetraploid level (T. stenolepium) and occasional male sterility in a sexual (T. bessarabicum in Moravia) were recorded for the first time in the genus. Selfing, diploidy and the highly predictable habitat may account for the mostly low level within population allozyme variation in T. bessarabicum. W. and C. European samples of T. bessarabicum are almost invariable allozymically and, as a group, have no unique alleles. The Crimean and Asian group of populations shows higher levels of allozyme variation and has 15 alleles not found in the former group at 13 loci studied. Recent migration from one source region is suggested to account for the homogeneity of the western group, refugial persistence of alleles and possible introgression from sympatric species may have resulted in allele richness in the eastern group. Hybridization between T. bessarabicum and T. salsum was documented by allozyme patterns in a few plants in Crimea. Some aberrant allozyme or karyotypic features of two populations are discussed as well. 
4180442|A new species, Euphorbia sanctae-catharinae A. Fayed, from the group of E. terracina L., is described from southern mountaneous area of Sinai.
4180692| On the basis of plant collections and observations during an expedition through the MPR in 1978, an enumeration of 142 rare and interesting species of higher plants is given. The ecology of the species is discussed and a grouping of the species into geoelements is given. /// In der vorliegenden Arbeit wird eine floristische Auswertung der Aufsammlungen einer 1978 durchgefhrten Expedition durch den mittleren Teil der Mongolischen Volksrepublik vorgenommen. Von 142 Arten werden Fundorte mitgeteilt und Hinweise auf Begleitpflanzen und pflanzengeographischen Charakter gegeben. Anemone obtusiloba wird erstmals fr die Mongolei nachgewiesen. Neu fr den Changaj-Bezirk sind Cystopteris dickieana, Eriophorum scheuchzeri, Salix myrtilloides, Chenopodium rubrum, Minuartia stricta, Aconitum smirnovii, Actaea erythrocarpa, Barbarea arcuata, Rosa oxyacantha, Hedysarum collinum, Hedysarum setigerum, Gentiana aquatica und Schizonepeta annua. Fr den Chentej-Bezirk werden Isatis costata, Astragalus dahuricus, Lophanthus chinensis, Pedicularis compacta und Utricularia intermedia erstmals genannt. Polypodium virginianum, Medicago ruthenica und Cicuta virosa sind neu fr Sred.-Chalch., Alisma gramineum und Cistanche salsa sind Neufunde fr das Tal der Seen (Dol. oz.) bzw. fr den Gobi-Altaj-Bezirk. Abschliessend werden pflanzengeographische Stellung von Kobresia-Rasen und Florenelemente nordmongolischer Gebirge diskutiert. 
4179433| Die biometrische Bearbeitung der Merkmalsvariabilitt einiger Taxa aus dem Komplex Arabis hirsuta (L.) Scop. wird erweitert durch die "Graphische Methode des Vergleiches von Pflanzenhabiti". Neu ist in der vorliegenden Arbeit die Anwendung dieser Methode bei der Analyse der P- und
4181419|This contribution combines field observation with the literature to argue that stabilised water levels are contributing to reed decline through a lack of vegetative and generative reproduction, and that eutrophic conditions exacerbate this situation. The focus on what causes reed shoots to die has increased our knowledge of what limits the distribution of reed without necessarily increasing our understanding of reed decline. This raises the question as to whether reed beds are in fact dying, or whether reed decline is observable only in the absence of regeneration. The distribution pattern and life-history of reed suggests that generative reproduction is lacking. It is proposed that the temporal scale at which seedling establishment takes place is similar to the time-frame of observed reed decline (10-50 years). As an "encompassing" factor, water regime influences many of the specific factors under investigation. Its role is therefore consistent with agreement in the literature that reed decline is caused by combinations of factors.
4179821|Progenies of triploid and diploid hybrids of tetraploid Arabis hirsuta (L.) Scop. s. str. and diploid A. sagittata (Bertol.) DC. and A. planisiliqua (Pers.) Reichenb. were studied. The observations concerned morphology, cytology, sterility degree of plants and embryological backgrounds. The evolutionary consequences of breakage of the sterility barriers within the complex connected with well pronouced morphological and karyological variability of hybrids are discussed.
4179679|The investigations of growth rhythm, dry matter production, leaf area development and root/shoot ratio of dominant reed bed species, grown in a greenhouse in hydroponic cultures during winter and spring are described. Data on air temperature, relative humidity and density of incoming solar radiation were recorded during the whole season. All species planted in autumn (in a warm greenhouse) presented a pronounced thermoperiodism, i.e. weak growth caused by an incomplete period of dormancy. The winter-planted specimens developed into normal and vigorous plants. The R/S ratio may be a relatively constant characteristic of species, but only for a given growth phase.
4179863|The observations on net above-ground biomass and production in a large protected area of monsoonal vegetation at Jodhpur (India) are presented in this paper. With the start of the monsoon (July-August) a distinct increase in biomass was noted and by winter (November-December), the biomass, decreased as there was hardly any moisture in the soil. The ephemerals, especially some of the grasses form the bulk of biomass in the total make-up. The biomass and production appeared to be closely related in the monsoonal vegetation of this area. The maximum biomass value (360.5 g/ m
4180762| The origin, age and development of a mire deposit in the locality of the Mokr Louky meadows near Tebo were ascertained by means of palaeoecological methods. The first minerogenic sediments originated in a depression at the turn of the Late-Glacial and the Holocene Periods. In the course of minerogenic sedimentation, the vegetational cover was formed by stands of Filipendula. In the middle of the Pre-Boreal Period, the first organic sediments formed by reed plant communities were deposited in the area. In the course of the following periods, plant communities of mire and marshy meadows belonging to the associations of the class Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae predominated on the site. Stands of willow and alder trees were formed in some parts of the deposit most probably towards the end of the Atlantic Period, with their maximum development in the Sub-Boreal to Upper Sub-Atlantic Periods. Pollen analysis produced a more precise foundation for reconstructing the forest vegetation in the centre of the Tbosk pnev Basin. A higher presence of Quercus and a lower one of Fagus, as compared with the results of previous pollen analyses from the borders of the Basin, were ascertained. The palaeoecological analyses are supported by radiocarbon datings. /// Das Alter des Lagers Mokr Louky bei Tebo wurde pollenanalytisch auf die Scheide des Sptglazials und Holozns bestimmt. Die ltesten Proben, die mit Hilfe des Radiokarbons datiert werden konnten, sind vom Alter von 9 630  100 Jahre BP und 9 600  100 Jahre BP. Das Lager entstand in einer breiten Terrainsenkung im Alluvium eines Baches, der die Wsser aus dem Sden des Beckens Tebosk pnev sammelte. Anfangs hat die minerogene Sedimentation berwogen. Das anorganische Material wurde durch den im flachen Alluvium aus dem Ufer tretenden Wasserlauf angeschwemmt. Die erste Pflanzendecke dieser anorganischen Sedimente bildeten vor allem die Filipendula ulmaria-Bestnde, die der Radiokarbondatierung nach in der Nhe des untersuchten Standortes lnger als 1 000 Jahre berwogen hatten (9 600  100 Jahre bis 8 650  100 Jahre BP.). Zur berwiegend organogenen Sedimentation kam es erst in der zweiten Hlfte des Prboreals. Bei der Bildung von Humolit kamen die Arten der Familie Cyperaceae und Poaceae (Phragmites communis) zur Geltung. Im Laufe des Boreals und des lteren und jngeren Atlantikums war der grssere Teil des Lagers mit Gesellschaften der Klasse Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae bedeckt; hufiger waren Menyanthes trifoliata, Comarum palustre, Equisetum fluviatile, Rhynchospora alba und Arten der Carex-Gattung vertreten. Festgestellt wurde auch Carex chordorrhiza. Erwhnenswert ist auch das Vorkommen von Sparganium cf. minimum am Anfang des lteren Atlantikums. Auf eine verhltnismssig hohe Vernssung der Lokalitt und Existenz von kleinen Tmpeln deutet das hufige Vorkommen von Zygosporen der Algen aus der Familie Conjugatophyceae (Mougeotia sp. div., Zygnema sp. div., Spirogyra sp. div.) vom Boreal bis zum jngeren Subatlantikum, mit maximalem Vorkommen im Atlantikum, hin. Einen hheren Grundwasserspiegel ab Hlfte des lteren Atlantikums weisen auch die Funde von Sphagnum-sporen und Schalen der Wurzelfssler Amphitrema flavum nach. Whrend des Subboreals drfte der Grundwasserspiegel am Lager etwas gesunken sein und an einigen Standorten bildeten sich Erlenbestnde. Diese Bestnde, zusammen mit den Gesellschaften der Klasse Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae bildeten am Lager eine mosaikartige Pflanzendecke auch im Subatlantikum. Ein heftiger Aufschwung der Weidenbestnde hat hier erst im jngeren Subatlantikum begonnen, als Folge der wirtschaftlichen Eingriffe in die Lagerbestnde. Die grundlegende Tendenz der Entwicklung der Pflanzendecke in weiterer Umgebung der Lokalitt entspricht ungefhr den fr das ganze Gebiet des Beckens Tebosk pnev festgestellten Richtlinien (Jankovsk 1980). Ende Sptglazial und im Prboreal haben hier Kiefernbestnde mit Birke und Wacholder berwogen. Im Boreal erreichten die Kiefernbestnde ihr holoznes Verbreitungsoptimum und im Gebiet kamen anspruchsvollere Gehlze zur Geltung (Corylus, Quercus, Tilia, Fraxinus, Alnus und Picea). Ihr erstes Vorkommen kann dank den C-14 Daten in die Zeitspanne um 8 650  90 Jahre BP gelegt werden und der Beginn ihres Aufschwunges in die um 8 180  90 Jahre BP. Im lteren Atlantikum breiteten sich zum Nachteil von Kiefernbestnden die Gehlze der Eichenmischwlder aus, an Standorten mit gnstigen hydrologischen Verhltnissen bildeten sich Erlen- und vernsste Fichtenbestnde. Die erwhnten Eichenmischwald-, Erlen- und Fichtenbestnde erreichten ihr Holoznoptimum im jngeren Atlantikum. Im Subboreal fand eine weitere grosse nderung in der Vergetation des Beckens Tebosk pnev statt. In die atlantischen Eichenmischwlder begannen nach und nach Abies und Fagus durchzudringen. Spter im lteren Subatlantikum wurden die Eichenmischwlder fast vllig aus ihren ursprnglichen Flchen von den Buchen-Tannenbestnden verdrngt. Auch die Fichte, die den Schwerpunkt ihrer Ausbreitung in den vernssten Biotopen in der Nhe der Moorkomplexe hatte, wurde weniger vertreten. In den Tannenbestnden war sie nur ein eingestreutes Gehlz. Die Kolonisation der Gegend Ende des 12. Jhdts. usserte sich durch gesamte Verringerung der Waldflchen und den Rcktritt einzelner Gehlze. Am meisten wurde die Tanne betroffen. Die Degradation der Waldbden ermglichte einen heftigen Aufschwung der anspruchslosen Kiefer an den Sandsubstraten. Zum Unterschied von den meisten vorherigen vorwiegend aus Lokalitten der Randgebiete des Beckens Tebosk pnev erzielten pollenanalytischen Ergebnissen wurde durch die Pollenanalyse der Sedimente aus Mokr Louky eine hhere Vertretung der Eiche im Zentrum des Tebo-Gebietes besttigt. Die Eiche hatte hier schon seit Boreal einen hheren Anteil. Die Buche hingegen machte sich in dem Zentralteil des Tebo-Gebietes weniger geltend als an seinen Randpartien. 
4179976| In Iran, Iraq, Turkey and adjacent southern parts of the U.S.S.R., four species of the genus Vicia, group of V. ciceroidea, occur, namely V. multijuga (Boiss.) Rech. f., V. ciceroidea Boiss., V. rafigae Tamamjan and the new species V. sojakii described here. This group of species is distinguished by its tendency to reduction of leaflets, broadening of leaf rhachis and dense branching of stems. With respect to these particular properties it is now convenient to esparate these species as a series Ciceroideae in the section Cracca. /// Die Artengruppe der Serie Ciceroideae ist im Gebiet des nrdlichen, Iran, des nrdlichen Iraq, der stlichen Trkei und der sdlichen Sowjetunion (Azerbajdjan) endemisch, mit dem Verbreitungszentrum in Hochgebirgslagen des nordiranischen Gebirges. Der Morphologie nach bilden die Arten eine isolierte Gruppe innerhalb der Gattung Vicia, welche mit der typischen Reduktion der Blttchen, dem Ausweitern der Blattspindel und der Vermehrung der ste, die zusammen mit den Blattspindeln die Funktion der Assimilationsorgane bernehmen, charakteristisch ist. Wegen dieser speziellen Eigenschaften ist es richtiger, die vier Arten dieser Gruppe, V. multijuga, V. rafigae, V. ciceroidea und V. sojakii in eine neue Serie Ciceroideae, der Sektion Cracca abzusondern. 
4181217| Natural and semi-natural plant communities of Svjatoj Nos Peninsula on the East coast of Lake Baikal, Eastern Siberia, Russia, are classified and described using the methods of Braun-Blanquet phytosociology. A total of 48 associations and communities were recognized, comprising alpine tundra, subalpine forb vegetation, aquatic macrophyte vegetation, tall-herb and poor fens, mires, bogs, meadows, sand-dune and steppe vegetation. Twenty six syntaxa of ranks ranging from subassociation to class are described or validated for the first time. All communities are documented by phytosociological relevs. 
4181205| Chromosome numbers of eight agamospermous Taraxacum microspecies are reported for the first time: T. hypanicum Tzvel. [sect. Dioszegia (Heuff.) Heuff.], T. neosivaschicum Tzvel. [sect. Palustria (Lindb. fil.) Dahlst.], T. pseudohoppeanum Kirschner et tpnek (sect. Erythrocarpa Dahlst.), T. schroeterianum H.-M. (sect. Rhodocarpa van Soest), T. marmottae C.E. Sonck, T. lambinonii van Soest [sect. Erythrosperma (Lindb. fil.) Dahlst.], T. zermattense Dahlst. and T. magnoobliquum van Soest (taxa of uncertain classification). All these polyploid microspecies have satellite chromosomes in their karyotypes. Advanced karyological characters were found in sect. Dioszegia, hitherto regarded as a primitive section of Taraxacum: triploidy in agamospermous T. hypanicum Tzvel. and satellite chromosomes as in this taxon, as in two diploid sexuals T. serotinum (W. et K.) Poiret and T. haussknechtii Uechtr. The results presented are compared to the literature data. 
4179838| In vorliegender Arbeit wird eine neue Assoziation beschrieben, u. zw. das Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli. Diese Assoziation ist bisher nur in NW-Bhmen, im Riesengebirge (Krkonoe) und im Bergland d'rsk vrchy untersucht worden. Sie ist hier an die submontane und montane Hhestufe gebunden, wo Granit und kristalline Schiefer die geologische Unterlage bilden. Optimale Bedingungen fr die Entwicklung des Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli bieten jene Standorte, wo wenigstens zu Beginn der Vegetationsperiode das nicht stagnierende Grundwasser in den Rhizosphrenbereich eingreift. Der Boden ist mit Phosphor und Kalium gut versorgt und zeigt oft eine mssig gute Pufferung. Vom pflanzensoziologischen Standpunkt aus weist die Assoziation Beziehungen zu den Gesellschaften des Calthion-Verbandes auf. /// The Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli, a new association of the order Molinietalia, provisionally classed within the alliance Calthion, is described. The association is mostly found in the montane belt (600 to 900 m alt.) of mountain ranges composed of granite or crystalline rocks. So far, it has been studied in Czechoslovak mountains, namely in the Krun Hory Mts., Slavkovsk Les Mts., Krkonoe Mts. and d'rsk Vrchy Mts; it has also been reported from the Smriny Mts. and Doupovsk Hory Mts. In NW Bohemia, a region under the influence of the oceanic climate, the Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli descends to the foothills (down to 400 m) while in the Krkonoe Mts., situated further to the eastern continental part of Europe, this association has also been recorded near the lower limits of the subalpine belt (at 1030 m alt.). It occurs around springs over the mountain slopes, and along streams in the valleys. In the latter habitats, the substrate is, as a rule, saturated with percolating water (continuously stagnant underground water is absent). Both kinds of habitats are relatively well supplied with both potassium and phosphorus. From the systematical point of view, three subassociations are distinguished within the association: Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli typicum, trisetetosum flavescentis and geranietosum silvatici. The latter is differentiated into two geographical races distinguished by the presence of either Phyteuma nigrum or Phyteuma spicatum. Syngenetical relationships of the association to other plant communities of the alliance Calthion, and to those of the alliances Polygono-Trisetion or Violion caninae, are apparent from a key attached to Tab. 1 (p. 62 - 63). 
4179559|The paper deals with the taxonomy and geographical distribution of the two species of the genus Echinodorus which Fassett (1955) did not work up satisfactorily in his revision i.e. Echinodorus macrophyllus (Kunth) Mich. which Fassett does not quote at all, and E. scaber Rataj which Fassett mistook for E. muricatus Griseb. Further a new variety and the diagnoses of hybrids, among which E. punctatus Mich. is included, are cited.
4179970| In Iran and the neighbouring regions of Turkey, Iraq, U.S.S.R. and Afghanistan, eight already known species belonging to the subsection Variegatae Radzhi, occur: V. persica Boiss., V. armena Boiss., V. variegata Willd., V. akhmaganica Kazar., V. gregaria Boiss. et Heldr., V. aucheri Jaub. et Spach and the two new species described here, V. rechingeri Chrtkov-ertov and V. afghanica Chrtkov-ertov. The occurrence of most species is restricted to a limited area which may be one of the evolutionary centres of this subsection. 
4181267|The growth dynamics of shoot populations and the mode of competition between intra-clonal shoots of two rhizomatous species, Polygonum cuspidatum and Polygonum weyrichii, were investigated at the Houei crater (c. 2380 m a.s.l.) of Mt. Fuji. Three genetic individuals of P. cuspidatum (large, medium and small) and five genetic individuals of P. weyrichii were selected for this research. The growth dynamics of shoot populations were analysed using the diffusion model. In P. cuspidatum, linear G(t,x) functions (mean of absolute growth rates of shoots of size x at time t in the diffusion model) with positive slopes were found in terms of shoot weight in three genetic individuals. The linear G(t,x) functions suggest that smaller-sized shoots were supported by means of physiological integration and not suppressed by larger-sized shoots. As in other clonal plant species, size-independent D(t,x) functions (variance of absolute growth rates of shoots of size x at time t in the diffusion model) were found in P. cuspidatum. A similar tendency was also found in the five genetic individuals of P. weyrichii. There was large variance of RGR in terms of shoot weight irrespective of values of
4181000| The littoral vegetation, mainly reeds and floating leaved vegetation, of the large Swedish lakes Mlaren, Hjlmaren, Vnern, and Vttern has been mapped during the period 1969 - 1975. The plant communities covered wide areas along the lake shores and no method other than aerial photography could be used for mapping the distribution of plant communities. Infrared colour film was used from a height of 1 500 m. Field observations were conducted to facilitate interpretation of pictures. Stratified sampling and counting of vegetation along random transects was used for calculating the biomass of the lakes and observing future changes. The aquatic vegetation in the area consists largely of stands dominated by a single species of Phragmites australis, Schoenoplectus lacustris, Typha angustifolia or Nuphar lutea. They could therefore be identified without great difficulty on the photographs. Interpretation was performed with great success and distribution maps of emergent and floating-leaved vegetation have been drawn of the entire lakes Mlaren and Hjlmaren and parts of the two largest lakes of Sweden, Vnern and Vttern (Fig. 1). Totally 2 400 photographs have been interpreted and the entire shore length of 4 500 km thoroughly mapped. The results have previously been reported in Swedish with English summaries (Andersson, 1972; 1973; 1975; 1978a, b; Andersson and Eriksson, 1974). A rapid development of remote sensing techniques made it interesting to test whether data from an airborne multispectral scanner could be used for mapping aquatic macrophytes. Results of that computer classification are discussed and compared with maps made by interpretation of IR-colour photographs. 
4181161|The middle part of one of the largest rivers of Eurasia, the Lena, stretches for a more than 1500 km; the width of its floodplain varies from 5 to 30 km. This floodplain is covered by islands at various stages of development, which are covered by a mosaic of different successional stages. Forests are the terminal stage of succession. Soils are permafrost, ranging from chernozem to saline and alluvial types. Grassland communities are due mainly to the activity of man. Two major ecological factors are responsible for the differentiation: hydrothermic regime (regulated mainly by the altitude above the river) and by soil salinity. Both direct and indirect gradient analyses are used to demonstrate this relation. Species positions along these gradients are given. Two climatically differentiated parts of the floodplain are distinguished. The first steppe-meadow floodplain is characterized by low soil salinity and a more favourable regime of precipitation; the second (meadow-steppe part) by a very dry and continental climate and strong soil salinization up to true sodum-chloride solontchaks.
4179478| The ecological life-history of "leafless" spurge, Euphorbia caducifolia Haines, which serves as an indicator of rocky and gravelly habitat in Rajasthan (India) is dealt with here. There appear to be two forms in existence: one with red and the other with green inflorescence, which interbreed freely in nature resulting in different shades of red coloured inflorescence. The plant is suitably adapted to xerophytic conditions, but surprisingly the leaves are borne only in summer when there is acute shortage of water. Flowering starts in January-February and the seeds are dispered by March-April. The seeds do not indicate any dormancy but the percentage of germination from different plants vary remarkably. The optimum germination is achieved between 25 - 30 C, beyond which it is retarded. Continuous light hastens germination. The seeds are washed down by rains from the rocky slopes where the plants grow and are buried in mud to a depth where germination does not take place, and hence regeneration of the plant is poor. 
4180017| The continuation of the cytological investigation of natural taxa and spontaneous hybrids of the genus Rosa is given. The chromosome numbers of 110 plants belonging to 33 taxa and 7 hybrids are presented. These results are compared with the data known from the literature including those given under other synonyms. In 7 species and 3 varieties the cytological data are published for the first time. Each plant is provided with information on its origin. A new species Rosa popekii Kltersk is described. The somatic association of rose chromosomes is discussed in connection with mitotic peculiarities of Rosa pimpinellifolia R 316. 
4179878| Diagnoses of the following 5 new lichen species are presented: Lecanora casimceana Vzda sp. n., Lecanora prominens Asta, Clauzade et Roux sp. n., Ramalina pontica Vzda sp. n., Usnea pseudoceratina Motyka sp. n. and Usnea tanzanica Motyka sp. n. The isotypes will be distributed in fasc. No. 53 of the "Lichenes selecti exsiccati" (issued by the Botanical Institute, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, Prhonice near Praha). 
4180413|Cassia angustifolia, C. italica, C. occidentalis, C. obtusifolia and C. pumila were exposed to water stresses of different levels for 20 days, after which their growth performance and survival values were observed. As the water stress increases the plant growth reduces drastically.
4179470| The authors have examined the nomenclatural status of the generic names proposed by F. M. Opiz in his work "Seznam Rostlin Kvteny esk" (A list of Bohemian plants) and of names which have been regarded in later literature as first published in that book. Many of the generic names proposed by Opiz in his Seznam were not in fact validly published in that book; on the other hand the valid publication of several names is conditioned by various types of indirect indication of an earlier effectively published diagnosis. Of the 80 generic names analysed 36 were validly published by Opiz in various works (not all in the Seznam), but only 13 to 15 are legitimate in the sense of the International Code 1966. The legitimate names are: Cenekia, Ceranthe, Duschekia, Euacer, Jovibarba, Kablikia, Lamiopsis, Liebichia, Plethiosphace, Pseudolysimachion, Spirocarpus, Swida, Weitenwebera and perhaps Margarospermum and Nenningia. Of these legitimate names four are considered by the authors as correct i.e. Duschekia, Jovibarba, Pseudolysimachion and Swida; in the Appendix some new combinations with these generic names are proposed. In the text some mistakes concerning Opiz's generic names in Index Kewensis are corrected. For 14 of Opiz's generic names the lectotypes are selected. A special notice is given to the nomenclatural problems of the group "Avenastrum". /// In der vorliegenden Studie befassen sich die Autoren mit der nomenklatorischen Analyse der Gattungsnamen, die von Opiz in seinem Buche "Seznam rostlin kvteny esk" (weiter nur Seznam) verffentlicht wurden. Es handelt sich hier um 80 Gattungsnamen, welche aber nicht denselben nomenklatorischen Wert besitzen. Eine ziemlich grosse Gruppe unter ihnen stellen die Namen vor, die von Opiz im Seznam nicht als gltig, valid verffentlicht wurden. Diese ungltig, invalid publizierten Gattungsnamen kann man in zwei weitere Gruppen einteilen: 1. die von Opiz zum erstenmal gebildeten Gattungsnamen, bei denen es uns nicht gelang, dieselbe Benennung unter den Namen der infragenerischen Taxa bei frheren Autoren festzustellen. Es sind das die folgenden Namen: Amerlingia Opiz 1852, Diplogama Opiz 1852, Floscuculi Opiz 1852, Grnera Opiz 1852, Hypericopsis Opiz 1852, Knafia Opiz 1852, Lusekia Opiz 1852, Mrkensteinia Opiz 1852, Nicotia Opiz 1852, Pfundia Opiz 1852, Preissia Opiz 1852, Reigera Opiz 1852, Seneciunculus Opiz 1852, Sykoraea Opiz 1852, Thlaspidea Opiz 1852, Tracheliopsis Opiz 1852, Ulina Opiz 1852 und auch Veronicastrum Opiz 1852. 2. die Gattungsnamen, zu welchen wir dieselbe Benennung unter den Namen der infragenerischen Taxa in der frheren Literature finden konnten; es ist uns aber nicht gelungen, bei diesen Namen einen indirekten Hinweis in Opiz's Seznam festzustellen, welcher uns ermglichen knnte, diese Namen als gltig, valid verffentlichte Namen anzunehmen. Es sind das die folgenden Gattungsnamen: Atocion Opiz 1852, Caryophyllea Opiz 1852, Cembra Opiz 1852, Consiligo Opiz 1852, Elatinella Opiz 1852, Epithymum Opiz 1852, Hyssopifolia Opiz 1852, Leuce Opiz 1852, Leucodonium Opiz 1852, Limnirion Opiz 1852, Lupularia Opiz 1852, Margaritaria Opiz 1852, Martagon Opiz 1852, Otites Opiz 1852, Pterocyperus Opiz 1852, Sinapistrum Opiz 1852, Tremula Opiz 1852 und wohl auch Capraea Opiz 1852 und Plumaria Opiz 1852. Folgende 6 ungltige, invalide Gattungsnamen sind gewhnlich in der Literatur mit dem Hinweis an das Opiz's Werk Seznam angefhrt; sie wurden aber von Opiz schon in seinen frheren Arbeiten bentzt, in diesen Fllen aber auch ungltig. Es sind das: Erxlebenia Opiz 1844, Gigachilon Seidl apud Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1836, Ramischia Opiz 1844, Ruprechtia Opiz 1844, Steinmannia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839 und Steinreitera Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839. Manche Gattungsnamen, welche von Opiz nicht valid verffentlicht wurden, wurden spter aber valid von anderen Autoren publiziert; es sind das: Pfundia Opiz ex Nvskij 1937, Ramischia Opiz ex Garcke 1858. In die zweite Gruppe gehren die von Opiz valid verffentlichten Namen; wir fhren zuerst solche Namen an, welche zwar im Seznam von Opiz bentzt wurden und die in der Literatur gewhnlich von dort angefhrt werden, welche aber von Opiz schon in seinen frheren Arbeiten gltig verffentlicht wurden. In die weitere Gruppe reihen wir solche Gattungsnamen ein, die von Opiz wirklich erst im Seznam valid publiziert wurden. Frher als im Seznam wurden von Opiz gltig, valid folgende Gattungsnamen verffentlicht: Botryocarpum (A. Rich.) Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Ceranthe Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Chamaebuxus Opiz 1839, Cochlidiospermum (Reichenb.) Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Cenekia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Dipsacella Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1838, Dischidium (Ging. in DC.) Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Duschekia Opiz 1839, Euacer Opiz 1839, Fiebera Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Jacea Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Kablikia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Liebichia Opiz 1844, Margarospermum (Reichenb.) Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Nenningia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Orthosporum (R. Br.) Opiz 1839, Papas Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1843, Swida Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1838, Tabacum Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1841, Torminaria Opiz 1839, Weitenwebera Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839. Im Seznam wurden zum erstenmal diese Namen valid publiziert: Aethiopis (Benth.) Opiz 1852, Amellus (Nees) Opiz 1852, Avenastrum Opiz 1852, Ceramanthe (Reichenb.) Opiz 1852, Consolida (DC.) Opiz 1852, Drymosphace (Benth.) Opiz 1852, Ervilia (Koch) Opiz 1852, Hemisphace (Benth.) Opiz 1852, Jovibarba Opiz 1852, Kratzmannia Opiz 1852, Lamiopsis (Dum.) Opiz 1852, Malya Opiz 1852, Plethiosphace (Benth.) Opiz 1852, Pseudolysimachion (Koch) Opiz 1852, Spirocarpus (Ser. in DC.) Opiz 1852. Im Seznam ungltig, aber spter doch gltig verffentlichte Opiz den Gattungsnamen Filaginella Opiz ex Opiz 1854. Von den angefhrten von Opiz valid verffentlichten Gattungsnamen sind zu dieser Zeit, in Hinsicht auf die Forderungen des Codes 1966, folgende Gattungsnamen als legitime anzunehmen: Ceranthe Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Cenekia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Duschekia Opiz 1839, Euacer Opiz 1839, Jovibarba Opiz 1852, Kablikia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839, Lamiopsis (Dum.) Opiz 1852, Liebichia Opiz 1844, Plethiosphace (Benth.) Opiz 1852, Pseudolysimachion (Koch) Opiz 1852, Spirocarpus (Ser. in DC.) Opiz 1852, Swida Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1838, Weitenwebera Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839 und wohl auch Margarospermum (Reichenb.) Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839 und Nenningia Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1839. Unserer derzeitigen Auffassung nach sollen von den erwhnten legitimen Opiz's Gattungsnamen folgende als richtige, korrekte Gattungsnamen anerkannt werden: Duschekia Opiz 1839, Jovibarba Opiz 1852, Pseudolysimachion (Koch) Opiz 1852 und Swida Opiz in Berchtold et Opiz 1838; manche neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen mit diesen Gattungsnamen, die nach unseren Erfahrungen noch nicht publiziert wurden, sind im Appendix dieser Studie angefhrt. Im Laufe unseres Studiums dieser Problematik konnten wir im Index Kewensis (sowie auch im Dalla Torre et Harms Genera Siphonogamarum) manche unrichtige literarische Hinweise bei den Gattungsnamen, die in diesem unserem Beitrage analysiert wurden, feststellen. Es ist ntig, die literarischen Hinweise im Index Kewensis bei den folgenden Gattungsnamen zu verbessern: Botryocarpum, Duschekia, Euacer, Fiebera, Kablikia, Liebichia, Nenningia und Weitenwebera. Vllig fehlen im Index Kewensis die Hinweise auf folgende Gattungsnamen von Opiz: Aethiopis, Amellus, Amerlingia, Avenastrum, Consiligo, Jacea, Margarospermum, Papas, Torminaria und Veronicastrum. Fr manche Gattungsnamen werden in dieser Studie Lektotypen vorgeschlagen; es betrifft die folgenden 14 Opizischen Gattungsnamen - Aethiopis, Amellus, Avenastrum, Drymosphace, Ervilia, Filaginella, Hemisphace, Jacea, Jovibarba, Lamiopsis, Liebichia, Plethiosphace, Pseudolysimachion und Spirocarpus, sowie auch Avenula (Dum.) Dum. und Heuffelia Schur. 
4179449| Der Autor bildet 65 neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen, von denen 58 zur Gattung Gentianella Moench (davon 3 Namen von Sektionen, 36 Namen von Arten und 19 Namen von Unterarten), 1 zur Gattung Gentianopsis Ma und 6 zur Gattung Comastoma (Wettst.) Tokoyuni gehren. Die Rangstufe wurde in einem Falle gendert. Bei jedem neu vorgeschlagenen Namen wird ein vollstndiger literarischer Hinweis auf das Basionym angegeben; im Falle einer unterschiedlichen Rangstufe zwischen der neu vorgeschlagenen Kombination und ihrem Basinonym wird auch das Synonym des zugehrigen Basionym in der vom Autor angenommenen Rangstufe angefhrt. 
4180009| 94 new nomenclatural combinations are proposed, resulting mostly from the study of taxonomic problems on the generic level. The reasons for the acceptance of the generic rank are given in the case of Acetosa, Pulegium and of some sections of Orobanche s. l. and Silene s. l. The taxonomic rank of Gentiana blepharophora Bordzi. from the Caucasus has been revised and the taxon is classified as a subspecies of Gentianopsis ciliata. Nomenclatural problems of not numbered "species" in Hoffmann's "Flora Deutschlands" from 1800 are demonstrated on the example of Armeria elongata. /// 94 neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen sind vorgeschlagen, grsstenteils auf Grund der Revision der Gattungsbegrenzung von verschiedenen taxonomischen Gruppen der Bltenpflanzen. Drei oder mehr neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen werden in folgenden Gattungen vorgeschlagen: Acetosa Mill., Bromopsis Fourr., Chamaesyce S. F. Gray, Elytrigia Desv., Eremogone Fenzl, Grammica Lour., Klasea Cass., Oberna Adans., Otites Adans., Phalaroides Wolf, Phelipanche Pomel, Tithymalus Gaertn. Erluternde Anmerkungen sind zu einigen taxonomischen oder nomenklatorischen Lsungen beigefgt. Acetosa Mill. ist eine charakteristische Artengruppe nicht nur vom morphologischen und chemischen Gesichtspunkten aus, aber auch wegen ihrer karyologischen Verhltnisse - speziell durch ihre sehr breite Palette von verschiedenen Chromosomengrundzahlen und weiters noch durch ihre genetische Isolierung von Vertretern der Gruppe Rumex s. s.; deshalb wird Acetosa als eine taxonomisch berechtigte Gattung anerkannt. Die Kombination Armeria elongata subsp. serpentini (Gauckl.) Holub 1960 muss verndert werden, weil das Epitheton "elongata" nicht ein Artepitheton bei Hoffmann im J. 1800 vorstellt und weil in der Rangstufe der Art das Epitheton "vulgaris" einen Vorzug vor ihm hat. Carex curvula subsp. rosae Gilomen stellt in Hinsicht auf ihren morphologischen, anatomischen, kologischen und phytogeographischen Charakter einen gut unterscheidbaren Taxon vor, der die Bewertung als eine Kleinart eher verdient. Dagegen zeigte sich die kaukasische Gentiana blepharophora Bordzi. 1912 nach der Revision ihrer Unterscheidungsmerkmale als ein gegen Gentianopsis ciliata sehr schwach morphologisch differenzierter Taxon (unterscheidbar eher in ganzen Populationen als in einzelnen Individuen); sie wird deshalb als eine. Unterart zu Gentianopsis ciliata eingereiht. Kurz sind auch die Probleme der Einteilung der Gattung Silene sensu amplo in natrlichere Gattungen erwhnt. Der Autor vermutet, dass hier die entsprechende Klassifikazion eher durch die Einteilung dieser riesigen Gattung erreicht wird als durch das Einschliessen von weiteren taxonomischen Gruppen, wie es speziell in der letzten Zeit oft durchgefhrt wird. Einzelne von der Silene ausgeschiedene Gattungen sind untereinander sicher nicht vollstndig vergleichbar; dies geht aber vom Charakter der Entwicklung der einzelnen Gruppen hervor. Zum Beispiel Otites Adans. ist ein gutes Beispiel von einer "Trend-Gattung", in welcher ihre Gattungsunter-scheidbarkeit (hier eine biologische und auf sie anknpfende morphologische Differenzierung) sich allmhlich in der ganzen Serie der Arten erst entwickelt; die Gruppe als ein Ganzes ist charakteristisch mit ihrer einlinienartigen Evolutionstendenz; aber kein gemeinsames (Unterscheidungs-) Gattungsmerkmal existiert fr alle Arten dieser Gruppe. Dagegen die Gattungsunter-scheidbarkeit von Pleconax Raf. ist morphologisch und karyologisch schon vllig entwickelt und das gilt wie fr die ganze Gruppe, so auch fr alle eingereihten Arten, die alle gemeinsame Gattungsmerkmale besitzen. Die Sektion Inflatae (Boiss.) Chowdhuri der Gattung Silene - mit S. vulgaris (Moench) Garcke als ihrem typischen Reprsentant - bildet in dieser Gattung auch eine selbstndige Gruppe; ihr Ausscheiden als eine Gattung Oberna Adans. mchte die Heterogenitt der breitaufgefassten Gattung Silene etwas vermindern. Die Gattung Orobanche s. l. zerfllt von morphologischen und karyologischen Gesichtspunkten aus in einige Gruppen; ihre elementre morphologische Unterschiede sind in Prsenz oder Absenz der Vorbltter und im Kelchbau. Die Hauptentwicklungsrichtung ist hier durch einen ber-gang von gestielten Blten mit zwei Vorblttern auf dem Stiele und einem regelmssigen Kelch mit 5 Zhnen zu ungestielten Blten ohne Vorbltter und mit einem zygomorphischen aus zwei Teilen zusammengestellten Kelch gegeben. Die morphologischen Unterschiede werden noch von den karyologischen Unterschieden begleitet (u. zw. in den Chromosomengrundzahlen und in der Ploidie-Stufe) und weiters auch durch die Lage der Entwicklungszentren von einigen nchstverwandten Gruppen (wie im Falle Myzorrhiza und Trionychon) in geographisch sehr entfernten Gebieten. Deshalb der Autor erkennt im Umkreis von Orobanche s. l. neben Orobanche L. 1753 noch Thalesia Raf. 1818, Myzorrhiza Philippi 1857 und Phelipanche Pomel 1874 als berechtigte Gattungen. hnlicherweise wird die Gattung Pulegium Mill. als selbstndig angenommen, und zwar wegen ihrer morphologischen, karyologischen und genetischen Unterschiede. Zwei Zitationen der Artennamen, die im Index Kewensis unterlassen wurden, sind beigefgt. 
4181347|Species richness, species composition and standing crop were studied in a limestone grassland in northern Switzerland after 13 and 15 years of experimental management with 6 management regimes differing in form, time and frequency of biomass removal. The management regimes with a cut at least every 2nd year had a higher species number per
4181550|A review of the vegetation of Greece, following the hierarchical system of four main syntaxonomic levels (association, alliance, order, class) is presented and the correspondence of the high-ranked syntaxa with the Habitat Types included in Annex I of the Directive 92/43/EEC has been prepared. The syntaxonomic list of the vegetation units of Greece (up to alliance level) is composed of 41 classes, 56 orders, and 91 alliances. Of the 226 Habitat Types listed in Annex I of Directive 92/43/EEC, 111 different Habitat Types are present in Greece, of which 26 are Priority Types. The establishment of a syntaxonomic typology for the Habitat Types recorded in Greece is essential for the sake of vegetation mapping and nature conservation. A habitat coding system, as applied in Spain, is proposed for Greece for mapping purposes.
4180971| The paper presents some data on the weed vegetation of soya bean fields in lowlands and on the slopes of the Changbaishan Mts., in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Two plant communities, Acalypho australis-Digitarietum pectiniformis Dostlek, Kolbek et Jarolmek 1990 and Cephalonoploso segetii-Geranietum eriostemonii Dostlek, Kolbek et Jarolmek 1990 are described and their syntaxonomy briefly discussed. 
4181138|A species of Pseudolaelia (Orchidaceae) from Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described as new to science.
4181540|A synopsis of high-rank syntaxa of scree vegetation with an accompanying list of plant communities is presented. The classification of scree vegetation in only one broadly conceived class, the Thlaspietea rotundifolii, throughout Europe is a new concept. The vegetation on screes was classified into 8 major groups (17 orders and 42 alliances) according to their altitudinal range and the chemistry of the parent material. Brief information on ecological conditions, phytogeographical patterns, and altitudinal distribution are given. The characteristics and important diagnostic taxa for each alliance and order classified within the Thlaspietea rotundifolii are given.
4180900| Pyrus  amphigenea Domin ex Dostlek is described on the basis of field observations and experimental results. The description of juvenile plants is also given. The distribution is believed to be more extensive than is apparent from the available herbarium specimens. 
4179875|New nomenclatural combinations are validated for fifteen taxa belonging to the genera Danthonia, Stipa, Lolium, Phippsia, Elymus, Schoenoplectus and Allium.
4181469|Differences in the numbers of stamens and styles per flower are conspicuous features of variation in North American hawthorns (Crataegus L.). Variation in stamen number between individuals is discontinuous, with modes of approximately 20 and 10 (or fewer). In North American black-fruited section Douglasii Loudon the 10-stamen morphotype is exclusively polyploid, whereas the 20-stamen morphotype comprises both diploids and polyploids. Polyploidy is associated with apospory, self-fertility, and varying degrees of pollen sterility. Variation in stamen number may also be correlated with variation in distribution, phenology, leaf shape, and other features of floral morphology, leading to recognition of taxa at the specific or infraspecific level. Comparable variation in stamen number is virtually unknown in Eurasian hawthorns, as in the majority of flowering plants. In section Douglasii stamen number morphotypes have been recognized as either varieties or species; although correlations between stamen number and other features are not as straightforward as was previously surmised, the higher rank appears to be appropriate. These data on breeding system and morphological variation may be explainable in terms of hypotheses linking gametophytic apomixis, polyploidization, and optimal strategies for pollen dispersal.
4179889|The crowns of mature sample trees of Acer campstre L. and Carpinus betulus L. growing in a closed forest served for the determination of water content in leaves, of specific leaf area and stomatal density. Three layers were taken into account, the position of the leaf with regard to the exposure of the particular portion of the crown, leaf insertion within the limb, and changes in the course of the growing period.
4180396| Plants gathered in Star Brno (1979) - classified under the genus Chenopodium L. and having K (2n) = 54 - are hybrids. Chenopodium strictum Roth (n = 18) and Chenopodium suecicum J. Murr (n = 9) are probably parental species. Hybridization may have been linked with amphidiploidy. 
4179532|The present paper deals with the results of cytological examination of a collection of original species of the genus Rosa. The ascertainment of chromosome counts in 64 individuals belonging to 24 taxa is given. For 8 species and 4 varieties the chromosome counts are published for the first time. In 31 plants meiosis during the microsporogenesis has been also examined.
4179797| Dieser Beitrag bringt Ergebnisse der phytoznotisch-kologischen Forschung submontaner Talauenwlder des Arunco silvestris-Alnetum glutinosae Tx. 1957 in der Tschechischen Sozialistischen Republik. Es wurden zwei Subassoziationen unterschieden: 1. das Arunco-Alnetum crepidetosum paludosae subass. nova mit langfristig vernsstem bis versumpftem Oberboden und ungnstigem Bodenluftregime und 2. das Arunco-Alnetum mercurialietosum perennis subass. nova mit frischem bis feuchtem Oberboden und gnstigem Bodenluftregime. Die Artenzusammensetzung dieser Gesellschaften ist aus Tab. 1 ersichtlich. /// The paper discusses the phytocoenological and ecological characteristics of the Arunco silvestris-Alnetum glutinosae Tx. 1957 in the Czech Socialist Republic, (western part of Czechoslovakia). This community represents an alluvial forest of the suballiance Alnion glutinoso-incanae in valleys of the submontane beech-forest zone. It is characterized by the dominance of Alnus glutinosa in the tree layer and by a high proportion of hygrophilous species in the herb layer. According to the floristic composition and soil conditions, two subassociations are distinguished: 1. Arunco silvestris-Alnetum glutinosae crepidetosum paludosae subass. nova (differential species: Crepis paludosa, Caltha palustris, Cardamine amara) on soils which are often wet to water-logged, with a high groundwater table (anmoorgley, nassgley), 2. Arunco silvestris-Alnetum glutinosae mercurialietosum perennis subass. nova (differential species: Mercurialis perennis, Phyteuma spicatum, Ranunculus lanuginosus, Lunaria rediviva, Campanula latifolia, Actaea spicata) on fresh to moist, well drained and aerated soils (braunerde-gley). The geographical distribution of this association is discussed, and a brief comparison is made with analogous Central European alluvial forest communities. 
4181051|Four species of the Fruticosae group of the genus Potentilla occur in Pakistan and Kashmir - P. rigida, P. arbuscula, P. dryadanthoides and P. ochreata. The diagnostic characters of P. ochreata Lindley have been overlooked since its first publication and we propose its re-instatement.
4181370| Two species of the genus Dorycnium with the most northern distribution reach the absolute northern limit of their distribution areas in the Czech Republic. Dorycnium germanicum, a less ecologically plastic and more xerothermic species, covers a compact area in south Moravia, connected with its occurrence in Lower Austria. Dorycnium herbaceum, an ecologically more tolerant species, has its primary distribution area in south-east Moravia; this is connected with the Slovak part of the area of this species; secondary occurrences are scattered throughout other parts of Moravia and Bohemia. The distribution of both species was evaluated, using 23 herbarium collections. Climatic characteristics are provided for 54 climatic and ombrometric stations from the distribution area of both species. In the Czech Republic D. germanicum represents the Illyrian-Noric migration element while D. herbaceum represents the Carpathian one. There is a clear climatic differentiation between the localities of both species: D. germanicum occurs in dryer and warmer regions than D. herbaceum. An introgression zone was identified in the vicinity of the town of Uhersk Hradit and the area south-east of this town. This zone coincides with the area where most of the identification problems with these species occurred. 
4180016| In der botanischen Literatur werden oft neue Kombinationen und neue Namen ungltig publiziert, weil die Vorschriften des Art. 33 d. Int. Codes nicht eingehalten werden. Die Verfasser verfolgen diese Frage bei der Gattung Actinotaenium Teiling 1954 (Fam. Desmidiaceae, Klasse Conjugatophyceae der Grnalgen), weisen auf die Unklarheiten und Unrichtigkeiten in ihrer Systematik hin und sind bestrebt, diese zu verbessern, soweit es bei heutigem Zustand der Kenntnisse mglich ist. Im Artikel ist ein neues Taxon Actinotaenium messikommeri Rika et Pouzar beschrieben und folgende neue Kombinationen verffentlicht: Actinotaenium adelochondrum var. kriegeri (Messik.) Rika, A. angulatum (W. et G. S. West) Rika et Pouzar, A. angulatum var. brasiliense (Grnblad) Rika et Pouzar, A. cordanum (Brb.) Rika et Pouzar, A. gelidum (Wittr.) Rika, A. heterotaphridium (W. et G. S. West) Rika et Pouzar und A. hibernicum (W. West) Rika. /// New combinations and new names are often published in the botanical literature without regard to the regulations of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature and especially of Art. 33; hence such names are often not validly published. The authors take as an example Telling's work (1954) on Algae of the genus Actinotaenium (Desmidiaceae, Conjugatophyceae). Teiling's work is very important from the taxonomic point of view but as regards nomenclature it is exceptionally confused and often completely erroneous. There are about 50 new combinations and new names proposed, the valid publication of which is - at least partly - debatable. We are now attempting to rectify the situation and publish most of the names treated by him in accordance with regulations of the Code. In some cases taxa are clarified as far as the present stte of knowledge allows from the taxonomic point of view. The authors believe that the regulations of Art. 33 of the Code and especially of the second paragraph are not clear in some points, and allow several interpretations. There is an urgent need to remove this ambiguity. The article regulating the valid publication of new combinations and new names which rules that a new combination or a new name is not validly published if there is not a direct and full reference to basionym (or replaced synonym), its author, the place of publication etc., should not be interpreted absolutely rigorously and strictly. In the authors' opinion it suffices, if there is a shortened reference to original publication immediately after the new combination (or the new name), for instance in the very frequent way of quoting the basionym (or synonym), the author, year of publication, page and illustration, while the full citation of the work is left for the list of references. If the regulations of Art. 33,  2 were to be interpreted too strictly, a multitude of new combinations and new names published earlier would remain not validly published because the shortened way is now very often used in some branches of botany (especially algology). The number of so invalidated names in Teiling's work is about 50. The invalidation of these names to such a large extent is not required because of the necessary clearness of taxonomy and confidence in nomenclature. On the other hand, if all the data for valid publication of new combinations or new names would be required in full, the text would become excessively long, whereas now the text is required to be as concise as possible. (In most cases the data would even be repeated several times.) 
4179773| Die Pflanzengesellschaften des Verbandes Cynosurion Tx. 47 wurden unter Anwendung der Methode der multilateralen Differenziation dokumentiert und klassifiziert. Alluviale Fettweiden wurden in den Unterverband Lolio-Cynosurion suball. nova und magere Bergweiden in den Unterverband Polygalo-Cynosurion suball. nova eingereiht. Insgesamt wurden 4 Assoziationen, 12 Subassoziationen und 28 Varianten festgestellt. Die einzelnen Syntaxa werden in einer bersichtstabelle zusammengefasst und von synkologischen, syngenetischen, synmorphologischen, syntaxonomischen und synchorologischen Gesichtspunkten beschrieben. Bei der Gegenberstellung der verffentlichten Gesellschaften in Europa wird die Verbreitung mancher Einheiten auch in anderen Gebieten als in den Westkarpaten festgestellt. Ganz kurz werden die verwandtschaftlichen Beziehungen des Cynosurion zu Kontaktgesellschaften behandelt. /// The proposed classification of pasture communities of the Cynosurion-alliance in the broad area of the Western Carpathians has been accomplished on the basis of multilateral differentiation. The results of the revision and synthesis are presented in a constancy table including 91 tables with 971 relevs. In addidion, about 120 relevs and species lists have been used. All phytosociological items are documented by adequate observations and explanations, and also recorded in a map. Until a full synthesis of related alliances is made, it will be impossible to determine delimitation and preference species groups for the Cynosurion; Lenotodon autumnalis, Prunella vulgaris, Trifolium repens and Cynosurus cristatus can be regarded as possible diagnostic species. These species show the highest mean constancy within the framework of the Cynosurion. For six floristically related alliances, a preliminary list of positively differentiating species which are missing or only scarcely represented in the Cynosurion, is put forward. Using floristic differentiation, two new suballiances have been delimited, viz. the Lolio-Cynosurion, comprising the fertile pastures on flood-plains and the Polygalo-Cynosurion, comprising poor mountain communities. These suballiances are further divided into 4 associations, with 12 subassociations and 28 variants. For each subassociation, the synonyms used in the area of the Western Carpathians are presented, and the most important synecological characteristics, e. g. climate, relief, altitude and soils, are briefly dealt with. Emphasis has been laid on mutual replacement and affinity of communities, zoobiotic factors, economic value, physiognomy, dominant and subdominant species, mean species number and syntaxonomic characteristics. Finally, the distribution of individual communities in the Carpathians and/or other European regions has been summarized. 
4180073| In der vorliegenden Studie werden die Asterothyriaceae allgemein charakterisiert. Es wird nachgewiesen, dass auch die Gattungen Aulaxina Fe, Gomphillus Nyl. und Solorinella Anzi Glieder der Familie sind. Morphologie und Bedeutung der Hyphophoren - asexuelle Frucktkrper der Mycobionten - und den Hyphophoren homologen, ertmalig beschriebenen Pseudisidien werden behandelt. Eine taxonomische Gruppierung der zur Familie gehrenden Gattungen wird vorgenommen. Ferner wird eine kurze systematische bersicht der Gattungen der Asterothyriaceen gegeben und durch Bestimmungsschlssel ergnzt. Folgende neue Taxa werden im einzelnen aufgestellt: Calenia microcarpa sp. n., C. monospora sp. n., Gyalideopsis alnicola Noble et Vzda sp. n., G. bispora sp. n., G. lambinonii sp. n., G. ochroleuca sp. n., G. perminuta sp. n., G. philippiae sp. n., G. rubescens sp. n., G. solorinellaeformis sp. n., Tricharia cretacea sp. n., T. pallida sp. n., T. plana sp. n., T. similis sp. n. und T. substipitata sp. n. /// The family Asterothyriaceae W. Wats. ex R. Sant. originally included six genera: Asterothyrium Mll. Arg., Psorotheciopsis Rehm em. R. Sant., Calenia Mll. Arg. em. R. Sant., Gyalectitium Mll. Arg., Echinoplaca Fe and Tricharia Fe em. R. Sant; Gyalidea Lett. ex Vzda and Gyalideopsis Vzda are later additions to this assemblage. Because the type of Psorotheciopsis, P. premnella (Mll. Arg.) R. Sant. is not in any way related to the family, this genus has to be excluded and those species, originally placed in Psorotheciopsis, which do have affinities with Asterothyriaceae are transferred to the genus Linhartia Sacc. et Sydow. In the present study Aulaxina Fe, Gomphillus Nyl. and Solorinella Anzi are newly recognised as belonging to Asterothyriaceae. Hyphophores, organs of asexual reproduction of the mycobiont, previously only described for a few species of Tricharia and Echinoplaca, have been noted and described for other genera of the family. The so-called isidia of two species of Gyalideopsis have been studied in detail and found to be an entirely new lichen organ for asexual reproduction here termed an pseudisidium. On the basis of apothecial structure the genera of the Asterothyriaceae can be segregated into four groupings which are distinctive in their taxonomy and phylogeny. All the genera are carefully summarized and a key for their identification is included. In addition keys for the species of the following genera: Gyalidea, Gyalideopsis, Linhartia and Tricharia, are given. The new taxa described in this paper are: Calenia microcarpa sp. n., C. monospora sp. n., Gyalideopsis alnicola Noble et Vzda sp. n., G. bispora sp. n., G. lambinonii sp. n., G. ochroleuca sp. n., G. perminuta sp. n., G. philippiae sp. n., G. rubescens sp. n., G. solorinellaeformis sp. n., Tricharia cretacea sp. n., T. pallida sp. n., T. plana sp. n., T. similis sp. n. und T. substipitata sp. n. A compendium of interesting new finds and observations is also added for completeness. 
4179645|A new association: Blechno serrulati-Acoeloraphetum Wrightii, endemic in W. Cuba, is described and the syntaxonomy and synecology discussed.
4181265|The aim of this study was to investigate whether resource availability affects the degree of physiological integration and the growth pattern of interconnected ramets in the clonal plant Maianthemum bifolium (L.) F.W. Schmidt (Liliaceae), a rhizomatous herb of European forests, by studying it at two contrasting South Swedish beech forest sites termed "poor" and "rich". The degree of physiological integration was studied by tracing the pattern of
4179758| In 1963, 1964 and 1965, a comparative ecological study was made of the distribution of mineral elements in the soil and phytomass of some Stipa species, viz. Stipa capillata L., S. pulcherrima C. Koch, S. joannis elak., S. dasyphylla er., and S. stenophylla er. in various locations of Central Europe. In all species and sites studied, chemical analyses of the soil, fresh phytomass (shoots and roots) and dead phytomass were made, together with relevant statistical evaluation. Individual Stipa species differ according to their mineral composition. In comparison with fresh green plant material, the old dead plant material shows a marked increase in ash, calcium, and natrium content. Potassium, nitrogen, and phosphorus show a decrease in the dead plant material. The mineral composition of the roots differs considerably from that of green plant parts: the roots have much higher ash, phosphorus, calcium and natrium content, and lower organic matter, nitrogen, and potassium content. On the basis of the data collected, an attempt was made to estimate cycling of the individual mineral elements. 
4179872| Im Rahmen regionaler Untersuchungen ber die Ackerunkrautgesellschaften und ihre Standorte im nordslowakischen Bergland wurden coenologische Artengruppen erarbeitet, zahlreiche montane Vegetationseinheiten mit eigenstndiger Artengruppenkombination abgegrenzt und auf Feldfrucht-bedingte Vegetationsunterschiede hingewiesen. Ein Bestimmungsschlssel ermglicht es, anhand coenologischer und kologischer Kriterien die ermittelten montanen Ackerunkrautgesellschaften zu erkennen. Die Kartierung bestimmter Unkrautarten oder Ackerstandorte bzw. eine Wuchsraumgliederung sind wichtige Anwendungsbereiche der Ergebnisse. /// The aim of this study is to widen the knowledge of weed communities of fields in Slovakia, and thus to contribute to investigation of less known weed communities in mountains of Central Europe. At the beginning, a general view is given of the climate and habitats of fields in the montane belt of the Western Carpathians, northern area of Slovakia (Fig. 1, Tabs. 1-4). Applying the results of 200 records, the phytocenological species-groups and their ecological explanlation are described (Figs. 2-7) together with the different weed communities of cereals and root-crops in nutrient poor, mesic and relatively rich habitats (Tabs. 6-10). The following units of plant communities have been found and described: a) in relatively poor sites: Trifolio-Scleranthetum Moraviu 43, Violo-Scleranthetum Pass. ass. nova provis,. Chenopodium-Spergula-community, Galeopsio-Sperguletum Pass. ass. nova; b) in mesic sites: Papaveretum argemones (Libb. 32) Krusem. et Vlieg. 39, Consolida-Papaver rhoeas-community, Myosotido- and Alchemillo-Sonchetum arvensis Pass. ass. novae, Echinochloo-Setarietum Krusem. et Vlieg. in Siss. Vlieg. et Westh. 40, Panico-Chenopodietum Br.-Bl. 21, Galeopsio-Chenopodietum Oberd. 57, Setario-Fumarietum J. Tx. 55, Thlaspio-Fumarietum Grs 66, Lapsano-Fumarietum Meisel 73, Echinochloa-Veronica persica-community, Euphorbio- and Lapsano-Veronicetum persicae Pass. ass. nov.; c) in
4181179|The correct names, author citations and nomenclatural types of the syntaxa names are established for the principal ranks above the association. These syntaxa are Ulicion minoris Malcuit 1929, Ericion umbellatae Br.-Bl., P. Silva, Rozeira et Fontes 1952, Genisto-Vaccinion Br.-Bl. 1926, Ulicetalia minoris Quantin 1935 and Calluno-Ulicetea Br.-Bl. et R. Tx. 1943.
4179736| Die vorliegende Studie, die erste aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae), enthlt den allgemeinen Teil (Material, historische bersicht, morphologische Charakteristik, verwandtschaftliche Beziehungen, phytogeographische Charakteristik), sowie Bemerkungen zu den monotypischen Gattungen dieser Subfamilie (Cryptocolea Schust., Cryptocoleopsis Amak., Diplocolea Amak., Horikawaella Hatt. et Amak., Scaphopyllum Inoue und auch Hattoria Schust. mit unsicherer taxonomischer Stellung). Ausser den 6 obenerwhnten monotypischen Gattungen stellte der Verfasser noch zwei andere Gattungen zu den Jungermannioideae, u. zw. Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. und Nardia S. Gray corr. Carring. Diese Gattungen sind in der vorliegenden Studie allgemein charakterisiert; ihre Arten werden in den folgenden Studien behandelt. /// The present study represents the first part of studies of the subfamily Jungermannioideae. It includes: 1. Historical outline of the conception of the family Jungermanniaceae. This family, in the author's opinion, includes 7 subfamilies (Chandonanthoideae, Lophozioideae, Mesoptychioideae, Notoscyphoideae, Jungermannioideae, Jamesonielloideae and Mylioideae); the subfamily Gottschelioideae belongs according to Grolle (1971) to the subfamily Jamesonielloideae, the subfamily Scaphophylloideae is connected by the author with the subfamily Jungermannioideae. The subfamily Jungermannioideae contains 7-8 genera: Jungermannia, Nardia, Cryptocolea (monotypic), Cryptocoleopsis (monotypic), Diplocolea (monotypic), Scaphophyllum (monotypic), Horikawaella (monotypic) and Hattoria (monotypic, the position unclear). 2. Historical outline of the conception of the two major genera: Jungermannia and Nardia. 3. Morphology, relationships and phytogeography of the subfamily Jungermannioideae. 4. Key to the genera of Jungermannioideae. 5. Notes on the monotypic genera. 6. Synonymy and description of the genus Jungermannia L. emend. Dum., key to the subgenera. 7. Synonymy and description of the genus Nardia S. Gray corr. Carring. 
4180056| A new classification is presented of plant communities with predominant Potentilla reptans, in anthropogenic habitats of villages in Western Slovakia, earlier described as the Potentilletum reptantis Eli 1974. Species poor communities in drier soils of the roadside and embankments are retained in the association Potentilletum reptantis Eli 1974 emend. Species richer communities in relatively moist ruderal habitats are separated as a new association, the Prunello-Potentilletum reptantis Eli 1978. 
4181366|In the extent to which it is used, the concept of the potential natural vegetation (PNV) is one of the most successful novelties in vegetation science over the last decades. However, previous applications of the concept have shown that the theoretical principles were used inconsistently or interpreted in an incorrect sense. The present problems in application (which become evident when visualizing historical aspects of the concept) mainly result from (a) inconsistent treatment of the construction criteria; (b) failure to distinguish between the "potential natural vegetation", the "reconstructed natural vegetation" and the vegetation developing during succession, (c) the lack of a precise definition for reference terms to construct potential natural vegetation (e.g. treating reversible vs. irreversible changes of vegetation). For a sensible application of the concept it is suggested (a) to construct the potential natural vegetation on the basis of natural site conditions as well as permanently effective site changes as a consequence of human impact, (b) to consider the PNV to be in balance with all site conditions taken as basis for its construction. In practice, however, the construction basis may also derive from a particular question underlying the making of a PNV-map. A suggestion for a re-definition of the term "potential natural vegetation" as well as a key for PNV-mapping (valid for landscapes of Northern Germany) are given.
4180093| Diagnoses of the following 6 new lichen species are presented: Bacidia Vzda sp. n. Buellia multispora Kalb et Vzda sp.n., Huilia circumnigrata Vzda sp.n., Pyrenopsis sojakii Vzda sp.n., Ramalina euxini Vzda sp.n. and Strangospora senecionis Lambinon et Vzda sp.n. The isotypes will be distributed in fasc. 67 of the "Lichenes selecti exsiccati" (issued by the Botanical Institute, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, Prhonice near Praha). 
4179518| Die Anwendung der Typenmethode als Hilfsmethode der phytosoziologischen Nomenklatur wurde eingehender geklrt. Einzelne Beispiele der Festlegung richtiger Namen fr einige Vegetationseinheiten wurden angefhrt und die Anwendung der Typenmethode in Regeln gefasst. /// The type-method is an auxillary method of phytosociological nomenclature. The standardization of each individual name of vegetation units by a nomenclatural type (typus) is the principle of this method. After syntaxonomic changes of the unit the nomenclatural type helps to determine its correct name according to the rules of priority. The nomenclatural type of an association or unit of lower rank is a record (relev) of a single stand effectively published either in the original diagnosis of the unit or earlier, but completely cited in the original diagnosis, and simultaneously indicated as the nomenclatural type (holotype) or later chosen from the original diagnosis and designated as the lectotype. The nomenclatural type of a higher unit is a validly published typified unit of the next lower principal rank completely cited in the original diagnosis and simultaneously indicated as the nomenclatural type (holotype) or later chosen from the original diagnosis and designated as the lectotype. 
4179484|The results of cytotaxonomical research in Lactuca quercina L. and Lactuca chaixii Vill. demonstrate that these taxa are closely related. Both have the same chromosome number 2n = 18, which is different from all previous counts in the subgenus Lactucopsis (n = 8) and their karyotypes are extremely similar if not identical.
4179696|The history of the discovery and results of authentic investigations of Coleanthus subtilis (Tratt.) Seidl. in the Amur Basin are presented. Distribution, ecological requirements, morphology of particular organs, dispersal on the riverbanks, and associated vascular plants of Coleanthus subtilis are described in detail.
4179958|The Theory of Biological Equilibrium (TBE) is applied to the classification of ecosystems. It is shown that one of the basic factors, the habitat-type, governs the distribution of species through the subfactors climate and substrate in accordance with the Theory of Tolerance. Groups of species can be distinguished which show a very similar distribution, and combinations of species in these groups form the kengroups of classification units, or associations. Because the habitat-type of associations is often fragmented, the classification procedures can be applied to explaint the natural extinction of species, as well as the probability of species extinction through man's actions upon biocenoses.
4181105| The semi-desert zone of the northern Precaspian Lowland is distinguished by the occurrence of closed-drainage depressions (limans) which are filled with melted snow in spring and usually dry out in summer. The plant communities of the above limans are discussed in this paper, along with descriptions of syntaxa belonging to the following classes: Phragmitetea R. Tx. et Prsg. 1942, Bolboschoenetea maritimi Vicherek et R. Tx. 1969 ex R. Tx. et Hlb. 1971, Molinio-Arrhenatheretea R. Tx. 1937 em. Mirk. et Naumova 1986, Asteretea tripolii Westhoff et Beeftink 1962 in Beeftink 1962, Festuco-Limonietea Karpov et Mirk. 1985, Polygono-Artemisietea austriacae Mirk., Sakh. et Solm. in Mirk. et al. 1986. 
4181400|The significance of dynamic processes of individual genets/ramets for the spatial pattern of plant species and community structure is discussed. It is suggested that under a different mode of competition (symmetric vs. asymmetric), spatial distribution of individuals, initial size distribution at the establishment stage and boundary conditions as recruitment influence differently the species coexistence pattern. It is therefore important to consider the mode of competition for the study of community structure. To know the mode and degree of intra- and interspecific competition, the dynamic processes of individual genets/ramets must be studied by following the growth, mortality and recruitment of each genet/ramet of each component species in a plant community. The models and methods of plant population ecology are therefore useful also for plant community ecology.
4180895| The frequency of diploids and polyploids in the flora and plant communities of the Temnosmreinov dolina valley (High Tatras) and the valley dolina Siedmich prameov (Beliansk Tatry mts.) is discussed in connection with environmental conditions and life forms. 
4179596|A new subspecies of Trisetum spicatum (L.) Richt. has been described from Borneo.
4181323|Three species and one genus of the Trichotheliaceae are described as new and illustrated. Polycornum rubrofuscum gen. and sp. nov. is related to the genera Porina and Trichothelium, but differs in having complex horn-like appendages growing from the entire surface of its perithecia, giving them a tomentose appearance. Trichothelium rubellum is characterized by red or brown perithecia and 5-7 white membranaceous setae arranged in a star pattern around the ostiole. Trichothelium nanum is characterized by 3-septate spores, small black perithecia, and white setae.
4179787| Das Dentario enneaphylli-Fagetum Oberdorfer ex W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960 umfasst montane Tannen-Buchenwlder der Silikatbden. Es ist in Mitteleuropa, in den Gebirgen des Bhmischen Massivs und der westlichen Karpaten, vor allem auf dem Gebiet der Tschechoslowakei verbreitet. Die Assoziation wurde in drei Subassoziationen gegliedert: Dentario en.-Fagetum typicum W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960, D. e.-F. impatientetosum (Hartmann et Jahn 1967) Moravec (die im Bhmischen Massiv vorkommen und sich kologisch unterscheiden), und D. e. F. salvietosum glutinosae Moravec (in den westlichen Karpaten). Die Zusammensetzung und Verbreitung der Assoziation und ihrer Untereinheiten ist durch umfangreiches Aufnahmematerial und synthetische Tabellen aus der Literatur belegt. /// The montane fir-beech forests on silicate soils of the Bohemian Massive and the western Carpathians belong to the association Dentario enneaphylli-Fagetum Oberdorfer ex W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960. This association is characterized by a relatively rich and constant occurrence of species of Fagetalia and Fagion, and by the differential species group Dentaria enneaphyllos, Festuca altissima and Veronica montana. The tree layer is composed of Fagus sylvatica, Acer pseudoplatanus and Abies alba (recently retreating), in higher altitudes also Picea abies. In old virgin stands this layer reaches up to 30 and to 50 m, for deciduous and needle trees respectively. The herb layer is relatively rich in species. In older stands it has a high cover degree. The shrub and moss layer are only fragmentary or even quite absent. The association is divided into three subassociations. The Dentario en.-Fagetum impatientetosum (Hartmann et Jahn 1967) Moravec is characterized by the differential species group Stellaria nemorum, Petasites albus, Circaea alpina, Thelypteris polypodioides and Ranunculus lanuginosus. It prefers cooler and moister sites. In this subassociation Picea abies was present with higher constancy and dominance also in natural forests. The Dentario en.-Fagetum typicum W. et A. Matuszkiewicz 1960 is negatively characterized; the differential species groups of the other subassociations are absent or have a low constancy. This subassociation occurs in dryer and warmer sites. The Dentario en.-Fagetum salvietosum glutinosae Moravec is characterized by the species group Salvia glutinosa, Tithymalus amygdaloides, Glechoma hirsuta and Isopyrum thalictroides. This difference is caused chorologically as the subassociation occurs only in the Carpathians. On the contrary both Dentario en.-Fagetum impatientetosum and typicum are confined to the territory of the Bohemian Massive. The species composition and its variability in individual territories is documented in synthetic tables of published sets of relevs (ca 200 relevs) as well as the author's as yet unpublished relevs (177 relevs). Originally, the Dentario en.-Fagetum formed a continuous cover of the montane belt in the mountains esk les, umava, Novohradsk hory, Doupovsk hory, Brdy, eskomoravsk vrchovina, in the whole range of the Sudeten Mts. starting with Luick hory and continuing through Jetd, Jizersk hory, Krkonoe, Orlick hory to Hrub Jesenk and Rychlebsk hory, and after a disjunct on further to the east in the western Carpathians - the mountains Moravskoslezsk Beskydy, Hostnsk and Vsetnsk vrchy, Javornky and Bl Karpaty. The eastern distribution limit of the Dentario en.-Fagetum follows the eastern slopes of the mountains Bl Karpaty and Javornky along the valley of the river Vh and crosses the eastern part of the mountanis Javornky and Moravskoslezsk Beskydy to the North. In the Krun hory Mts. the Dentario en.-Fagetum is substituted by another association. In lower mountains the association occupied summit areas and slopes of northern to eastern exposure, or it descended into the slopes of valleys. The Dentario en.-Fagetum represents a zonal vegetation type of the montane belt. Into the submontane belt it descends to cooler and moister habitats caused by exposure or relief. Most stands occur in the altitudinal range from 500 to 1000 m, but the total range reaches from 330 to 1100 m a.s.l. The Dentario en.-Fagetum impatientetosum concentrates between 700 and 1000 m, and the Dentario en.-Fagetum typicum between 400 and 800 m. The Dentario en.-Fagetum salvietosum occurs mostly from 600 to 900 m. The zonal belt of our association is characterized by a mean annual temperature of 4.4 to 7.0C and by mean annual rainfall of 650 to 1300 mm. The Dentario en.-Fagetum primarily occupies slopes. The soils belong to the Centraleuropaean braunerde (meso- to eutrophic variant). On very skeleton-rich weathering products the association penetrates to ranker-braunerde. In exceptional cases it occurs on pararendsina with leached topsoil developed on weathering products of cretaceous sediments. 
4181416|We investigated the carbohydrate concentration plant species naturally growing in habitats with a high risk of oxygen shortage (Senecio aquaticus Hill, Myosotis palustris (L.) L. em. Rchb.) and congeneric species from drier sites (Senecio jacobaea L., Myosotis arvensis (L.) Hill). Plants from the four species were cultivated in either nitrogen-flushed or aerated nutrient solution. Following oxygen shortage in the root environment a two - fourfold increase of carbohydrate content was found in the roots as well as in the shoots of the species examined. Although the tendency in the response of both genera to the hypoxic conditions in the nutrient solution was the same, there were differences in concentration and composition of the water soluble carbohydrates. The flooding tolerant Senecio aquaticus accumulated the highest amounts of carbohydrates, in particular fructans (nearly 60% of the soluble carbohydrates, compared with 30% under aerated conditions). The increasing amount of sugars found under hypoxia-inducing conditions proved that substrate availability was not the limiting factor for survival under wetland conditions.
4180760| The newly described plant community of the association Juncetum alpino-articulati subass. blysmetosum compressi colonizes sandy alluvial deposits in the subriparian tier (at and below annual mean watermark) on the banks of the upper Biela Orava river in the north-western Slovakian Carpathian Mts. at the altitudes of 800 to 850 m. The high content of CaCO
4181089| Ornitogalum macrum Speta, a new species, is described from the akilli-Pass on the road from Akseki to the Bey sehir-Lake in Turkey. It is characterized by its tenderness. Roots turning yellow and concrescente leaves of the bulb speak in favour of a membership to the O. umbellatum group. But the late appearance of the foliage leaves in spring and the lack of ridges on the gynoeceum have hitherto never been found in this connection. There is however an indisputable similarity as to characteristics of the O. undulatum group. The chromosome number is 2n = 54. The interphase nuclei are chromomeric. /// Vom akilli Pass an der Strasse von Akseki zum Beyehirsee in Kleinasien wird die neue Art Ornithogalum macrum Speta beschrieben, die durch ihre Schmchtigkeit auffllt. Gilbende Wurzeln und concrescente Zwiebelbltter sprechen fr die Einreihung in die O. umbellatum-Verwandtschaft, das sehr spte Erscheinen der Bltter im Frhjahr und das Fehlen der Lngsleisten am Fruchtknoten wurde hingegen in dieser Verwandtschaft noch nie registriert. Eine unleugenbare hnlichkeit besteht in manchen Merkmalen zur O. undulatum-Gruppe. Die diploide Chromosomenzahl ist 2n = 54, die Interphasekerne sind chromomerisch. 
4179435|A new species of the genus Albatrellus S. F. Gray (Polyporaceae), A. similis Pouz. spec. nov. is described differing from the closely related Albatrellus ovinus (Schaeff. ex Fr.) Kotl. et Pouz., e.g. in the amyloid spores.
4179759|The relationship between Leuzea DC. and Rhaponticum auct. was studied. The differences between these taxa are shown to be insufficient to justify classification at the generic level. The resulting genus is preliminarily subdivided into seven subgenera. Its correct name is Leuzea DC. 1805. A new subgenus is described and 27 new nomenclatural combinations are proposed including 5 for subgenera, 20 for species and 2 for subspecies.
4181309|The paper deals with the history of vegetation science viewed as a succession of paradigms. Alternative methodological approaches and alternative ways of viewing the elementary parts of vegetation at the coenotic level are replacing each other in the course of time. Vegetation research always involves a simplification of the vegetation objects by means of reduction and generalization. At any level there are certain traditional ways to describe the multiplicity of vegetation structure. According to the association approach, vegetation is mostly reduced to plant communities. The proponents of the continuum approach reduce the vegetation structure to the population level, and aggregate the populations in various ways. According to the ecosystem approach, various functional, more or less self-regulating vegetation elements can be described.
4180611|The survival strategies of Cyperus rotundus L. have been studied in relation to osmotic potential, desiccation rate, bound water and dry matter content. Critical moisture level of the perennating organ, the tubers, is 43% and minimum soil moisture is about 0.4%, for its survival.
4179580|Paulschulzia pseudovolvox (Schulz) Skuja, a member of the Tetrasporales, is recorded for the first time for Czechoslovakia. Amphidinium radiatum Javorn., a member of the Gymnodiniales is recognized. Further information about its variability is supplemented. The algae were studied in two reservoirs.
4180115| Two new species of Phellinus rimosus complex are described, viz. Phellinus coffeatoporus Kotl. et Pouz. from Florida (U.S.A.) characterized by globose spores and Phellinus resinaceus Kotl. et Pouz. from Papua-New Guinea and Australia which is distinguished by a very thick and faintly yellowish tinted spore wall. /// Phellinus coffeatoporus Kotl. et Pouz. und Phellinus resinaceus Kotl. et Pouz. sind als neue Arten beschrieben. Beide gehren in die Gruppe des Phellinus rimosus (Berk.) Pil., die sich durch die grossen gefrbten Sporen sowie durch das Fehlen der Spinulae auszeichnen. Die Hauptmerkmale des Phellinus coffeatoporus Kotl. et Pouz. sind die fast kugeligen Sporen und die dunkel kaffeebraun Farbe der Poren. Diese Art ist nur aus zwei Funden von derselben Lokalitt (Brickell Hammock, Florida) in U.S.A. bekannt. Phellinus resinaceus Kotl. et Pouz. hat die Sporen sehr schwach gelb gefrbt, die Wand der Sporen ist sehr dick und in dem Fruchtkrper befindet sich eine resinose Substanz. Diese Art ist bisher nur aus zwei Lokalitten (Badili, Port Moresby, Papua-New Guinea, und Sydney, Australien) bekannt. 
4179461| The region of Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and the neighbouring countries is important for some groups of the species Lotus L., especially those of the circle of L. corniculatus L. and L. gebelia Vent. The first group is represented by the species L. corniculatus L. with 4 subspecies (3 of which are important for this region), and L. tenuis Waldst. et Kit. which here attains the eastern boundary of the continuous area of distribution, and by the eastern species L. krylovii Schischk. et Serg. and L. rechingeri Chrtkov-ertov. The second group is represented by the species L. gebelia Vent., L. michauxianus Ser. in DC. and L. libanoticus Boiss. their areas of distribution covering mostly those regions. Most of the species show considerable variability within the species. /// Der Artikel handelt von den kritischen Arten aus dem Formenkreis von Lotus corniculatus L. und L. gebelia Vent. aus Iran, Afghanistan, Irag, Pakistan und den angrenzenden Gebieten. Die erste Gruppe wird durch die Arten L. corniculatus L., L. krylovii Schischk. et Serg., L. tenuis Waldst. et Kit. und L. rechingeri Chrtkov-ertov reprsentiert, die zweite Gruppe durch L. gebelia Vent., L. michauxianus Ser. in DC. und L. libanoticus Boiss. In beiden Gruppen ussert sich bei den meisten Arten die Variabilitt durch die Bildung paralleler Reichen von Typen nach dem leitenden Merkmal, besonders nach der Behaarung, der Form des Kelches und der Blttchen. Bei den meisten Merkmalen zeigt sich eine kontinuierliche Variabilitt. In dem aus diesem Gebiet stammenden Material kommen einige neue Typen vor, die in anderen Teilen des Areals nicht festgestellt wurden, es sind dies: L. rechingeri, L. corniculatus subsp. afghanicus, L. corniculatus subsp. fruticosus, L. tenuis var. hirsutus, L. gebelia var. lanatus, L. michanxianus var. glabratus. 
4181322|Several little known or new species of chroococcalean cyanoprokaryotes (Cyanobacteria, Cyanophyceae) of the genera Aphanothece (A. variabilis, A. comasii), Bacularia (B. gracilis), Cyanotetras (C. crucigenielloides) and Cyanokybus (C. venezuelae) were found in Cuban freshwater reservoirs. Their taxonomic descriptions and comparison with related species are presented. The chroococcacean species Cyanokybus venezuelae was originally described by Schiller (1956) from Islas de los Aves near the Venezuelan coast in the Caribbean Sea; it also grows in alkalic, coastal swamps and pools on Cuba. The morphology, variation and life cycle of Cuban populations of this little known species were studied, and its generic delimitation from the genus Chroococcus was found to be taxonomically definable. The Cuban samples, which correspond morphologically and ecologically to the Venezuelan diagnosis, represent the second finding of this species after its description, again in the Caribbean region.
4179589| Es werden 28 Arten von lichenisierten Fungi (Flechten) mit kritischen taxonomischen Hinweisen oder Ergnzungen zu den in der Literatur vorhandenen Beschreibungen, oft mit chorologischen Bemerkungen und Angaben ber die kologischen Verhltnisse ihrer Standorte angefhrt, von denen die nachgenannten Arten und Namenskombinationen neu sind: Verrucaria scabra Vzda sp. n., Geisleria xylophila Vzda sp. n., Toninia steineri Poelt et Vzda sp. n., Pachyascus byssaceus (Vzda) Vzda comb. n. und Micarea gomphillacea (Nyl.) Vzda comb. n. /// Twenty eight species of lichenised Fungi (Lichens) from Czechoslovakia with taxonomical, ecological and geographical notes are given. The following taxa have not been previously reported for Czechoslovakia: Thelidium bryoctonum Th. Fr., Geisleria sychnogonoides Nitschke, Absconditella trivialis (Willey ex Tuck.) Vzda, Thyrea nigritella Lett., Spilonema paradoxum Bornet, Micarea gomphillacea (Nyl.) Vzda, Toninia diffracta (Massal.) Zahlbr., T. kolax Poelt, Varicellaria rhodocarpa (Kbr.) Th. Fr. var. constans Erichs., Lecanora candida (Anzi) Nyl., L. conferta (Duby) Grogn., L. leptacina Sommerf., L. melanophthalma (Ram.) Ram., L. microspora (Arnold) Zahlbr., Parmelia koflerae Clauz. et Poelt, Caloplaca areolata (Zahlbr.) Clauz. ex Vzda, C. epithallina Lynge, C. inconnexa (Nyl.) Zahlbr. and C. oasis (Massal.) Szat. Three species are described as new and two new combinations are made: Verrucaria scabra Vzda sp. n., Geisleria xylophila Vzda sp. n., Toninia steineri Poelt et Vzda sp. n., Pachyascus byssaceus (Vzda) Vzda comb. n. and Micarea gomphillacea (Nyl.) Vzda comb. n. 
4179659| The group of species usually referred to Chamaenerion is maintained as forming a separate genus; as Chamaenerion (auct.) is an illegitimate name, Chamerion (Raf. 1818) Raf. 1833 must be used as the correct name of the group. At present Chamerion includes 9 species; remarks on the nomenclature of C. angustifolium (L., em.) Holub and C. dodonaei (Vill.) Holub are given. /// Der Verwandtschaftskreis von Epilobium angustifolium L. zeigt sich in der Gattung Epilobium L. s. 1. als eine gut abgegrenzte Gruppe, die sowohl mit einem Merkmalskomplex und genetischer Isolation als auch mit seiner selbstndigen phylogenetisch-florogenetischen Entwicklung gut charakterisiert ist. Diese taxonomische Gruppe ist deshalb hier als eine selbstndige Gattung anerkannt. Fr diese Gattung ist es nicht mglich den Namen Chamaenerion zu bentzen, weil dieser Name bei ersten Autoren, die ihn angewendet haben, vollkommen identisch mit Epilobium L. 1753 war. Eine abweichende taxonomische Anwendung von Chamaenerion im Sinne der heutigen taxonomischen Auffassung beginnt mit S. F. Gray in 1821; weiter folgten z. B. Spach im J. 1835, Kosteletzky im J. 1844 und Schur im J. 1853. Taxonomische Identitt mit Epilobium L. 1753 bei den Autoren kurz nach dem Anfang der wissenschaftlichen Nomenklatur fhrt den Verfasser dieser Studie zur Ablehnung eines Konservierungsantrages des Namens Chamaenerion im Sinne solcher Autoren. Die Konservierung des Namens Chamaenerion im Sinne von S. F. Gray, Spach, Kosteletzky, Schur, u. s. w., bei denen die taxonomische Umgrenzung der heutigen Bentzung des Gattungsnamens Chamaenerion entspricht, wird hier auch nicht vorgeschlagen; der Grund liegt darin, dass es in einem solchen Falle ntig wre, die Kombination fr die bestbekannte Art der Gattung - Chamaenerion angustifolium - von einem Verffentlichungsort zu zitieren, der lter wre als das Verffentlichungsdatum des konservierten homonymischen Gattungsnamens (was nach dem zuknftigen Kod mglich sein wird). Im Falle der Konservierung von Chamaenerion S. F. Gray wre es noch ntig, das Artepitheton bei Chamaenerion dodonaei zu ndern. Der Autor bentzt deshalb einen bisher vollkommen unterlassenen Gattungsnamen Chamerion (Raf. 1818) Raf. 1833 und gibt fr die Gattung eine Beschreibung, Typus und Synonymik. Zur Zeit sind in dieser Gattung 9 Arten in zwei Sektionen bekannt. Weitere Taxa (Arten oder Unterarten) knnen vielleicht noch unter 8 weiteren Arten- und Unterartennamen verborgen sein, deren taxonomische oder nomenklatorische Problematik bisher noch nicht klar ist. Der Name Epilobium angustifolium L. muss noch emendiert werden, und zwar mittels einer Verengung per ursprnglichen Linnischen Auffassung; fr Chamerion dodonaei (Vill.) Holub wird eine Synonymenliste mit Analyse einzelner Synonymen gegeben. 
4179940| Germination of Lemna gibba L. seeds originating from two climatically different regions of Czechoslovakia: (1) South Bohemia, Jordn fishpond: (2) South Moravia, Nesyt fishpond, was examined under both laboratory and field conditions. The influence of water temperature on the rate of germination and the influence of different storage conditions on germination were assessed during 1972-1974. During the first year after ripening, all experimental treatments (i.e. germination at different water temperatures; storage in refrigerator and hibernation in the fishpond prior to germination) except the variant in which the seeds were kept in drought, resulted in roughly 100% germination. The rate of germination increased with increasing water temperature. The seeds lost their germination ability approximately after two years. 
4181414|Acorus calamus L. is a neophyte in Europe with remarkable properties. Among other things, it is the most anoxia tolerant species and a competitive invader at eutrophic sites. The following overview presents the most recent work on these subjects. Carbohydrates of the rhizomes sustain anaerobic ATP production for very long periods. Ethanolic fermentation naturally occurs in winter and produces rather low, but sufficient amounts of ATP for survival, as shown by adenylate energy charge and total adenylate content. Fermentation energy is mainly used for the synthesis and preservation of essential macromolecules, such as proteins and membrane lipids. The extent of these processes is unique. Moreover, ammonia and sulphide uptake is maintained during the cold season. Both ions are detoxified to alanine and thiols which are translocated into the rhizome, where the nitrogen of alanine is used to form arginine. Overwintering leaves contain asparagine instead of arginine. Recycled nitrogen compounds from the rapidly degrading summer leaves return into the rhizomes. Therefore, the nitrogen nutrition consists of an external and internal cycle. The abundance of carbohydrates and nitrogen compounds allows spring shoot growth earlier than other species. These strategies could contribute markedly to the competitive power of A. calamus at its natural site.
4179452|The plant Phragmites communis was subject to an analysis of physiological gradients along the leaf blade and level of insertion of separate leaves. The gradients were established in the following aspects: fresh weight, dry matter, specific leaf area, water content, water saturation deficit and its resaturation, rate of desiccation and photosynthetic capacity. Indistinct gradients under normal conditions become more marked in extreme circumstances. The significance of leaf heterogeneity for all sorts of eco-physiological analysis of the plant under study was discussed.
4179789| Vicia cassubica L. in Czechoslovakia belongs to the characteristic species of light decidous forests, especially oak forests, and of their edges, predominantly in the range of the Pannonian flora and in the adjacent regions. V. cassubica appears little variable both in Czechoslovakia and in its total distribution area. /// Vicia cassubica L. gehrt in der Tschechoslowakei zu charakteristischen Arten einiger wrmeliebender Gesellschaften. Sie ist vorwiegend im Gebiet der pannonischen und subpannonischen Flora und in den angrenzenden Teilen benachbarter Gebiete verbreitet. Sie stellt eine verhltnismssig wenig vernderliche Art dar. In Bhmen ist sie im Elbetiefland, Prager Talbecken und im Gebirge esk stedoho (Bhmisches Mittelgebirge am hufigsten verbreitet. Von diesen greift sie in die Nachbargebiete, besonders in das Kivoklt-Hgelland und auf die Slan-Platte ber, weiter ist sie in Nordwestbhmen (z. B. Podrudoho, Tal der mittleren Ohe), in Nordbhmen, Sdbhmen und auf der Hhe eskomoravsk vrchovina (Bhmisch-Mhrischen Hhe) zerstreut verbreitet. In Mhren ist V. cassubica viel seltener als in Bhmen und in der Slowakei. In Mhren ist sie zerstreut besonders im Stromgebiet des Flusses Morava (hufiger auf den Hgeln Chiby und Hostnsk vrchy und in der Umgebung der Stadt Hodonn) und in den westlichen Teilen in der Umgebung der Stadt Znojmo und weiter bis zu den Stdten Teb und Jihlava zerstreut verbreitet. Nordwrts kommt die Art an der ganzen Nordgrenze von Mhren zerstreut vor, wohin sie aus den benachbarten Gebieten des polnischen Schlesien bergreift. In der Slowakei ist die hufigste Verbreitung von V. cassubica im Gebiet der Ipel-Rimava-Furche und in den benachbarten sdlichen Teilen der Gebirge Slovensk Stedoho und Slovensk Rudoho (Slowakisches Mittel- und Erzgebirge). Weiter ist sie in den Mal Karpaty, (Kleine Karpaten), der nrdlichen Gebiete des Donautales und in den angrenzenden Gebieten (z. B. Tribe) zerstreut verbreitet. Im Osten ist die Art im Slowakischen Karst (Slovensk kras), in den nordstlichen Teilen der Tiefebenen Koick und Potisk nina, sehr hufig auch auf den Hgeln Zemplnsk vrchy verbreitet. V. cassubica kommt am hufigsten im Hgelland vor, in die submontane Stufe steigt sie seltener auf. In den ausgedehnten Tiefebenen, z. B. auf der Insel Velk itn ostrov (Grosse Schttinsel) und in der Zhorie fehlt sie. 
4180477| This paper presents the results of taxonomic investigation of 8 species of lichens with gyalectoid apothecia collected in North-India and Nepal. Four species are recognized as new: Dimerella isidiata (sp. nova), D. nepalensis (sp. nova), Gyalideopsis lithophila (sp. nova) and Ramonia nepalensis (sp. nova). Four species are reported for the first time from Nepal: Coenogonium moniliforme, Gyalectidium caucasicum, Gyalidea lecideopsis and G. scutellaris. /// Im Winter 1979/80 besuchte einer der Autoren (G. T.) N-Indien und Nepal mit dem Ziel, dort Flechtenmaterial fr seine taxonomische Studien der Flechtengattung Chiodecton zu sammeln. Dabei wurden auch andere Flechten aufgenommen, von denen 8 Arten mit gyalectoiden Apothecien taxonomisch untersucht worden sind. Die vorliegende Arbeit enthlt Ergebnisse dieser Untersuchung: Vier Arten werden als neu beschrieben: Dimerella isidiata (sp. nova) and D. nepalensis (sp. nova), beide aus Nepal, Gyalideopsis lithophila (sp. nova) aus Assam und Ramonia nepalensis (sp. nova) aus Nepal. Weitere vier Arten sind Neufunde fr Nepal: Coenogonium moniliforme Tuck., Gyalectidium caucasicum (Elenk. et Woronich.) Vzda, Gyalidea lecideopsis (Massal.) Lett. ex Vzda und G. scutellaris (Bagl et Car.) Lett. ex Vzda. Zu allen Arten sind taxonomische, kologische und phytogeographische Bemerkungen beigefgt. 
4179973| Data on the annual net primary production by macrophyte vegetation are given for 5 lakes in northern Russia and for altogether 8 river reservoirs, 5 on the Volga and 3 on the Dnieper rivers. The monozonal (littoral) lakes Laa, Voe and Kubenskoje are by one to two orders of magnitude more productive in macrophytes (per unit lake area) than the polyzonal large lakes Ladoga and Onega. In the 5 Volga river reservoirs, the annual macrophyte production decreases downstream, from some 92 to 3.5 g C per 1 m
4181369|Luzula campestris, L. pallidula and tetraploid plants of this section from Ireland were studied electrophoretically. A hypothesis of alloploid origin for the Irish tetraploids from a hybrid between L. campestris and L. pallidula, based on the morphology and karyology of the relevant taxa, has been tested. The presumed parental taxa are divergent in several loci, L. pallidula being highly homozygous and L. campestris moderately heterozygous. The Irish tetraploid combines the alleles of the putative parents, has no unique alleles, and exhibits a high frequency of heterozygotes, in Adh-2 and Gpi-1, with invariably additive patterns. The Irish tetraploid has a low genotype diversity. The allozyme data support the hypothesis of alloploid origin for the Irish tetraploid with L. campestris and L. pallidula as possible parents.
4180198|Avena fatua L., a weedy grass of arable land and an occasional component of ruderal communities, shows uneven distribution over Czechoslovak territory. Compiled in a "map of historical distribution" the literary and herbarium data suggest a similar pattern of dispersal as at the present time, which is presented in the "map of recent distribution". Altogether 3124 localities, recorded on arable land in Bohemia and Moravia mainly in the period 1967 to 1974, have been listed and statistically evaluated according to various environmental aspects. The present-day distribution of A. f. remains to be controlled by primary climatic, orographic and soil factors in spite of the profound effects of large-scale field management and weed control. According to its behaviour in Czechoslovakia, the species must be classed as a subthermophyte and subxerophyte dispersed mainly in the planar and colline belt and occupying mainly base-rich soils. The three zones established according to the density of localities with respect to the "classes of infestation" coincide well with the new phytogeographical division of western part of Czechoslovakia. Less complete data from the eastern part of the territory revealed similar trends in the species' distribution. From the viewpoint of syntaxonomy, A.f. has an optimum in the Secalietalia, while its occurrence in ruderal communities lies mostly in the Sisymbrion.
4181391| Chromosome numbers are reported for 20 collections of Mongolian plants representing 19 taxa. The first chromosome records are reported for Arabidopsis mongolica (2n = 16), Caragana pygmaea (2n = 16), Isatis costata var. leiocarpa (2n = 28), Lophanthus chinensis (2n = 18) and Stevenia cheiranthoides (2n = 32). Counts partly differing from those previously recorded are given for Batrachium trichophyllum subsp. trichophyllum (2n = 32 + 0-2B, 36 + 6B), Cuscuta chinensis (2n = 60), Dracocephalum fragile (2n = 72) and Erysimum flavum (2n = 14). Chromosome numbers of the following taxa were confirmed: Astragalus monophyllus (2n = 16), Erodium stephanianum (2n = 16), Gastrolychnis apetala (2n = 24), Geum aleppicum (2n= 42), Linum baicalense (2n = 18), Rorippa palustris (2n = 32), Rubia cordifolia subsp. pratensis (2n = 22), Schizonepeta multifida (2n = 12), Tribulus terrestris (2n = 36) and Vicia cracca (2n = 14). Taxonomic remarks on Arabidopsis mongolica, Erysimum flavum, Stevenia cheiranthoides and Vicia cracca are added. A new combination Arabidopsis mongolica (Botsch.) Msek & Sojk is proposed. 
4180392|The contribution presents phytosociological analyses of the savanna vegetation of Yaguaramas belonging to the class Curatello-Byrsonimetea Borhidi 1979. According to the plant composition, the plant communities under study belong to the order Byrsonimo crassifoliae-Andropogonetalia teneris Bal.-Tul. ordo nov., where two alliances were distinguished, namely the Guillemineo brittonii-Aristidion refractae Bal.-Tul. all. nov. and the Byrsonimo crassifoliae-Andropogonion teneris Bal.-Tul. all. nov. The associations Sclerio interruptae-Rhynchosporetum subimberbis Bal. Tul. ass. nov., and Polygalo omissae-Andropogonetum diodontis Bal.-Tul. ass. nov. (both endemic) were classified in the former alliance while the association Byrsonimo crassifoliae-Andropogonetum teneris Bal.-Tul. ass. nov. is a representative of the latter. The following subassociations were distinguished: the Sclerio interruptae-Rhynchosporetum subimberbis utricularietosum fimbriatae Bal.-Tul. subass. nov., the Byrsonimo crassifoliae-Andropogonetum teneris typicum Bal.-Tul. subass. nov., and the Byrsonimo-Andropogonetum sclerietosum interruptae Bal.-Tul. subass. nov.
4179762| Ramonia micrococca Vzda sp. n. und R. stipitata Vzda et H. Hertel sp. n. werden als neue Arten beschrieben. Das Typenmaterial von Ramonia leptospora (Mll. Arg.) Vzda comb. n. wird nher beschrieben. Die Identitt von Maronea porinoidea Zahlbr. 1935 mit Ramonia valenzueliana (Mont.) Stiz. wird nachgewiesen. ein neuer Fund von R. luteola Vzda wird angefhrt und eine eingehende Beschreibung von R. chrysophaea (Pers.) Vzda vorgelegt. /// Two new species of Ramonia Stiz. are described: R. micrococca Vzda sp. n. from Kenya and R. stipitata Vzda et H. Hertel sp. n. from Venezuela. A new combination is proposed: Ramonia leptospora (Mll. Arg.) Vzda comb. n. (= Secoliga leptospora Mll. Arg.). Maronea porinoidea Zahlbr. is shown to be a synonym of Ramonia valenzueliana (Mont.) Stiz. Ramonia luteola Vzda, known hitherto from two localities in the Carpathians, has recently been found in Bosnia Hercegovina (Magli Mountains, Peruica Virgin Forest). For the insufficiently known species Ramonia chrysophaea (Pers.) Vzda a full description is given. 
4181545| Using the Braun-Blanquet approach, a syntaxonomical revision of the order of Quercetalia pubescenti-petraeae, based on the synthesis of 634 relevs, distinguished three alliances of the thermophilous oak forests in the Czech Republic: (1) Quercion pubescenti-petraeae (3 communities: Pruno mahaleb--Quercetum pubescentis, Lathyro versicoloris-Quercetum pubescentis, Corno-Quercetum), which includes peri-alpine and peri-Carpathian oak forests on calcareous bedrock, (2) Aceri tatarici-Quercion (2 communities: Quercetum pubescenti-roboris, Carici fritschii-Quercetum roboris), which comprises Pontic-Pannonian oak forests on loess or sand that occur in southern Moravia only, (3) Quercion petraeae (5 communities: Potentillo albae-Quercetum, Brachypodium pinnatum-Quercus robur community, Sorbo torminalis-Quercetum, Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae, Asplenio cuneifolii-Quercetum petraeae), which includes Central European thermophilous oak forests distributed outside the range of Quercus pubescens and some other submediterranean species. 
4179942| Der Name Onosma helveticum (A. DC.) Boiss. kann, da das Typusexemplar zu O. vaudense Gremli gehrt, weder (im engeren Sinne) fr die im Wallis endemische Sippe angewendet werden, fr die er bisher allgemein gebraucht wurde, noch kann er (im weiteren Sinne) fr den von Teppner (1971) als O. helveticum Boiss. emend. Teppner bezeichneten Verwandtschaftskreis gebraucht werden, da O. vaudense diesem Verwandtschaftskreis nicht angehrt. Fr letzteren muss der Name O. pseudoarenarium Schur 1859 emend. Rauschert eintreten. Die korrekten Namen der hierher gehrigen Unterarten werden zusammen mit ihrer Synonymie aufgezhlt. Die Verbreitung der Unterarten wird auf einer Karte dargestellt. /// The taxonomic group to which the taxon endemic in Valesia and hitherto named O. helveticum (A. DC.) Boiss. belongs, cannot be called O. helveticum Boiss. emend. Teppner as in recent publications of Teppner (1971), Ehrendorfer (1973) etc., because (1) the name O. echioides  Helvetica A. DC. must be considered the basionym of Boissier's combination, (2) the lectotype of the basionym is identical with O. vaudense Gremli, and (3) O. vaudense does not belong to this group. The oldest binomial available for the "helveticum-group is O. pseudoarenarium Schur 1859, and this name must be used sensu latiore for the whole group, when their taxa are classified as subspecies of single species. The correct names of the 9 subspecies (5 new combinations) are listed, and their synonymy is given. The subspecies endemic in Valesia further bears the epithet helveticum, which however must be considered a new epithet (not a new combination from DeCandolle's name which is not a basionym). The distribution of the 9 subspecies is mapped. 
4181064|A new species, P. grandiloba, and a new variety, P. pamirica var. khunjrabensis, from Pakistan are described. New status has been given to P. grisea var. vilijuga. P. aphanes is recorded for the first time from Pakistan.
4181346|A soil seed bank study was conducted in an old and isolated chalk grassland site (area ca. 0.05 ha) with a high species richness in The Netherlands, over a two-year period. Each soil seed bank sample was divided into two halves: one part was sown immediately in trays with a layer of sterilized sand and put in a greenhouse, whilst the other half received a chilling period before being sown. Plant recruitment in the field was studied during the same period in permanently marked plots. Seeds of species which had become extinct during the period 1944-1970 were not found in the soil seed bank in the late eighties. One group of species still present in the actual vegetation neither showed any signs of recruitment from seed nor had a soil seed bank. Species in this group that do not recruit vegetatively can be considered as directly threatened by extinction. A group in the actual vegetation did not show any recruitment, but nevertheless had germinable seed present in the soil. Among this group, there are some annuals; however, the majority of the species are characterized by the potential to recruit vegetatively. The majority of the species present in the actual vegetation (45%) demonstrate seedling recruitment and are also present as seeds in the soil, although there is some quantitative discrepancy between these categories. The seed bank did not reflect former stages of the actual vegetation. Based on the results, predictions can be made on the future development of the vegetation and on the fate of a number of species. Adjustment of the management regime is aimed at maintenance of the species richness of the site. This is important for nature preservation purposes since a high number (ca. 27%) of the species in the chalk grassland of this small site are on the Dutch Red List.
4180151|Autecological, quantitative studies have been made of Acorus calamus L., growing in littoral communities of Central Europe and/or cultivated in experimental hydroponic sand cultures. Production measurements using the methods of growth analysis and the leaf disks method of dry weight increase were performed in addition to measurements of biomass energy conversion both of natural communities and experimental plants.-Thermoinduction of growth and ontogenetic development of shoots and underground organs and the R/S ratio were studied experimentally in conditioned greenhouses.-The mineral nutrient uptake was studied in natural populations in fishpond littorals as well as in experimental cultures with forced mineral nutrition.-The provenience and chorology, considering the caryotypes of A. c. populations in Europe, Asia and North America are discussed in relation to the thermoinduced ontogenetic development of vegetative organs, to flower sterility and to the polycormone performance of European populations growing in temperate to cold climatic conditions.
4180216|Cyperus rotundus L. is a hygrophilous plant, but it flourishes well even in the Indian desert. Higher bound water, hygroscopic capacity, % dry matter, lower desiccation rate and volume to mass ratio, development of thick sclerenchymatous layer, presence of cortical vascular bundles and endodermis-like layer appear to be the factors responsible for such adaptation.
4180950| Three shrub associations and 11 forest associations with 8 subassociations were found in the Bukovsk vrchy hills. Three associations are described as new. 
4180117|In der vorliegenden Arbeit ist die Gattung Urtica L. in drei Untergattungen zergliedert - subgenus Urtica, subgenus Sarcourtica Chrtek, subgenus Dendrourtica Chrtek, die sowohl durch biologische als auch morphologische Merkmale charakterisiert sind.
4180951|The paper presents the results of an experiment with the cultivation of Butomus umbellatus at a stable water level of 0.8 m for 6 years. The plant growth, flowering and vegetative reproduction were measured and recorded at the end of each growing season. The species showed a great ability to reproduce vegetatively by rhizome fragments. Cultured plants of Butomus umbellatus did not show any decrease or limitation of growth or flowering caused by stable water level. The expansion of the rhizome system seems to be dependent on its spontaneous fragmentation.
4180617|Comparison of growth rates of Salix cinerea and S. pentandra seedlings in terrestric, limosal, and littoral ecophases showed different life strategies of juvenile stages of these willows. Several characters determining ecological niches of both species are summarized.
4181111|This paper deals with the carnivorous plants of the genus Pinguicula occurring particularly in wet habitats. Nevertheless, some species are able to survive longer dry periods in the course of which they form succulent rosettes. Leaf anatomy has been investigated in 6 Mexican species of this kind. The following features frequent in typical succulents have been found: green sheats of vascular bundles (indicating the C
4181304|Patterns of grasslands species mobility were compared between communities and within plant species. Data from high spatial resolution permanent plots with fine scale recording system, experiment with removal of the dominant recorded also at a fine scale were used. The permanent plots showed large variation within a community in the patterns of species mobility. The species mobility was partly dependent on the site and was higher in a more nutrient rich and climatically more favourable community. Mobility also varied within species. In some species (Nardus stricta, Anthoxanthum spp.) it differed between communities (it was higher in more nutrient rich and climatically more favourable community) and did not respond to removal of the dominant species. In another species, Festuca rubra, mobility also differed between plots; in contrast, it did not show consistent variation attributable to community type and showed strongly increased spatial persistence in plots with the dominant species removed. In this species the mobility seems to be dependent on the competitive pressure of the coexisting species.
4180734|The correlation pattern between vascular plants and bryophytes was studied, comparing variance proportions accounted for by the main PCA axes of sets containing only vascular plants and sets containing random selection of both bryophytes and vascular plants with the same number of species. In material rich in bryophytes, inclusion of bryophytes almost invariably lowered the overall correlation expressed by the variance proportion of the main PCA axes. This indicates that distribution of bryophytes is largely determined by other factors than that of vascular plants. It is suggested that this may be due to the opportunistic strategy of grassland bryophytes which respond to factors of much shorter duration and greater fluctuations than vascular plants.
4181020|Three new species of the genus Trisetum from the province Yunnan are described: Trisetum lautum, T. debile and T. yunnanense which belong to Trisetum flavescens-group.
4181091|Voandzeia subterranea (L.) Thouars (Bambara groundnut) is a drought and poor soil cultivated legume. The seeds vary both in colour and in size. The seed colour ranges from white, cream, ivory to dark brown red or black. The seed weight varies from about 0.15 g to 1.20 g. The effect of seed size on the development and yield of the cream coloured cultivar of V. subteranea was investigated. The three size class of seeds used in the study are small (seeds weighing less than 0.40 g) medium (seeds weighing from 0.40-0.60 g) and large (seeds weighing above 0.60g). The results of the investigation show that the number of leaves, pods and seeds, the leaf area, dry weight of plants and the seeds produced increased significantly with increase in the seed size.
4180660| The taxa very rare in Greece, Gentianella bulgarica (Velen.) J. Holub and Primula elatior (L.) Hill subsp. intricata (Gren. et Godron) Ldi Balkan-South Carpathian and mountain subendemic taxon of South and South-Central Europe also the oreophytes Gentiana asclepidaea L. and Androsace villosa L. rare in Greece at high altitudes endemic species of Central Europe and arcto-alpic element both extending South as far as Central Italy and Central Greece as well as the relatively rare species in Greece, Crocus biflorus Mill. which exists in South Europe from Sicily and eastwards and finally four other Iridaceae, i.e.: the South Balkan Asia-Minor subendemic species Crocus olivieri Gay and C. pulchellus Herbert, the South Balkan endemic species C. veluchensis Herbert and the Mediterranean and mostly East-para-mediterranean subendemic species Hermodactylus tuberosus (L.) Miller are reported and investigated. However new habitats and records in the Greek area of the investigated species are given, their distribution is discussed, while the existence of the taxa most rare in Greece Primula elatior (L.) Hill subsp. intricata (Gren. et Godron) Ldi in Hegi, Gentianella bulgarica (Velen.) J. Holub, Gentiana asclepiadea L., Androsace villosa L. and Crocus biflorus Mill. are presented in the form of a dot map and thus the southernmost limits of their spreading in the Balkan peninsula or in S.E. Europe are elucidated. /// Ein Beitrag zur Kenntnis einiger Sippen der griechischen Flora unter besonderer Bercksichtigung der Chorologie und des Endemismus. So werden die sehr seltenen in Griechenland Taxa: Gentianella bulgarica (Velen.) J. Holub und Primula elatior (L.) Hill subsp. intricata (Gren. et Godron) Ldi in Hegi, ebenso die seltenen Arten: Gentiana asclepiadea L., Androsace villosa L. und Crocus biflorus Mill., als auch die neu nachgewiesenen griechischen Standorte der Arten: Crocus olivieri Gay, C. pulchellus Herbert, C. veluchensis Herbert und Hermodactylus tuberosus (L.) Miller erwhnt und untersucht. Die Verbreitung der Arten wird diskutiert, die Vorkommen in Griechenland der fnf ersten obigen Sippen sind in der Form von einer Punktkarte dargestellt; damit sind die sdlichsten Arealgrenzen auf der Balkanhalbinsel bzw. auf Sdost-Europa genauer erfasst, als dies bisher der Fall war. 
4179893|The correct usage of the generic name Oidium [Link] Fr. 1821 (Hyphomycetes) as well as the question of its conservation - with the authorship attributed to Saccardo 1880 (Erysiphaceae) - are discussed. Problems of the typification of generic names with misinterpreted type are also mentioned.
4181308|The question, "why do areas vary in species richness?" has been important throughout the history of ecology. It is difficult to answer definitively because we have so many (at least 120) plausible hypotheses. This abundance of hypotheses has led to a number of attempts to classify them. Unfortunately, richness hypotheses often defy such categorization. Instead of placing species richness hypotheses into categories, I suggest an alternative approach: to treat species richness hypotheses as violations of the assumptions of Gause's Competitive Exclusion Principle. This is a very similar approach to the pedagogy of population genetics: evolution occurs if and only if at least one assumption of the Hardy-Weinberg principle is violated. The classification of hypotheses advocated here treats interspecific competition as a central organizing concept in community theory. However, it does not treat competition as an organizing concept in communities: indeed, the relaxation or disruption of competition is considered to be the status quo in the majority of communities.
4180480| Three hybrids are described whose common parent was Pyrus spinosa Forsk.: 1. Pyrus  bardonsis Dostlek (P. elaeagrifolia Pall.  P. spinosa Forsk.). - 2. Pyrus  velenovskyi Dostlek (P. pyraster Burgsd.  P. spinosa Forsk.). - 3. Pyrus  jordanovii Dostlek (P. communis L.  P. spinosa Forsk.). Notes are given about five other hybrids whose existence has not been conclusively confirmed or which are less important. 
4179632| The paper presents the results of pollen and macroscopic analyses of three peat deposits in the surroundings of Letina (near Svtl nad Szavou) on the western slopes of Bohemian-Moravian Uplands. On the basis of the results obtained, a reconstruction of forest covers was made and the representation of various woody plants in the forests from the Sub-boreal period to the present was evaluated. Beech-fir forests were found to have prevailed in the area before the beginning of colonization, and Picea excelsa is shown to have originally occurred at 450-500 m altitude. The results of macroscopic analyses were used for the reconstruction of the vegetation of peat deposits. The findings of historical investigations of the forests were taken into consideration and the conclusions of geobotanical reconstruction mapping were compared with the results obtained. /// Es wurde eine Pollen- und Grossrestanalyse von Proben aus drei Torflagern im westlichen Vorgebirge der Bhmisch-Mhrischen Hhe vorgenommen. Die Ergebnisse der Grossrestanalyse dienten als Unterlage fr die Rekonstruktion der Vegetationsentwicklung der eigentlichen Torflager. Das Lager PV-1 entstand Ende Subboreal, das Lager PV-2 im lteren Subatlantikum, das Lager PV-4 whrend des jngeren Subatlantikums. Alle drei Lager entstanden an Stelle ursprnglicher Erlenwlder, welche sich nach knstlicher Beseitigung der Baumbestnde in Wiesengesellschaften umwandelten (Ordnung Molinietalia Koch 1926). Die Resultate der Pollenanalysen wurden fr die Rekonstruktion der Pflanzendecke in der Umgebung der untersuchten Lokalitten gebraucht. Die grsste Aufmerksamkeit wurde auf die Entwicklung der Waldvegetation gerichtet. Gewisse nderungen in der Holzzusammensetzung des Waldes konnten hier ab Ende Subboreal verfolgt werden. Es wurde festgestellt, dass sich berwiegend die Laubbestnde der Gehlze Quercetum mixtum vom Ende Subboreal infolge des Klimawechsels zu Beginn des lteren Subatlantikums in Bestnde mit dominierender Buche umwandelten. In der Hlfte des lteren Subatlantikums trat in diese Bestnde die Tanne ein. An der Scheide des lteren und jngeren Subatlantikums nahmen einen berwiegenden Teil des Gebietes schon Buchen-Tannenbestnde ein. Die knstliche Beseitigung von Fagus im 16. bis 18. Jhdt. (Holzgewinnung fr Berg-, Glas- und Httenwerke, Abweiden in Wldern) fhrte zur Entstehung von Tannenbestnden, die in der Hlfte des 19. Jahrhunderts zum Grossteil ausgerodet wurden und an ihre Stelle wurde haufenweise die Fichte gepflanzt, die bis heutzutage in den Wldern des Untersuchungsgebietes dominiert. Bei Beurteilung der jngsten Entwicklungsphase der Waldbestnde bercksichtigte man die Resultate der forsthistorischen Forschung. Ebenfalls die Bedeutung der wichtigsten Gehlze in den Bestnden vom Ende des Subboreals bis in die Gegenwart wurde bewertet. Die Pollen- und Grossrestanalyse bewies das ursprngliche, edaphisch bedingte Vorkommen von Picea in dieser tief gelegenen Region (450-500 m . M.). In Sedimenten, in denen der Pollengehalt von Corylus nur 2-3% der Summe AP + NAP = = 100% betrgt, wurden Corylus-Makroreste festgestellt. In vorliegender Arbeit wurden die Ergebnisse der Pollen- und Grossrestanalyse und die Resultate der geobotanischen Rekonstruktionskartierung verglichen. Die angestellten Analysen besttigen die Richtigkeit der Rekonstruktion des Verbandes Fagion Luquet 1926 emend. Pawlowski 1928 und des Verbandes Luzulo-Fagion Lohmeyer et Txen in Txen 1954. Die Pollenanalyse besttigte jedoch nicht ein so grosses Ausmass der rekonstruierten Verbnde Quercion robori-petraea Braun-Blanquet 1932 und Carpinion betuli (Meyer 1937) Oberdofer 1953. 
4181108|The spread of Heracleum mantegazzianum in the Czech Republic has been reconstructed on the basis of floristic data. The species has spread from several spatially independent localities which have originated from the West Bohemian population introduced in the 19th century. Its expansion first followed the courses of great rivers. An exponential increase in the number of localities reported in particular years and in the cummulative number of localities was found. The species abundance decreases from the region of original introduction, which is located in the westernmost part of the country, to the east. The rate of spread in the last sixty years was the same in the Czech Republic and in Great Britain. The species is, however, more widespread in the North of Europe presumably because of the more favourable climate. It is found most frequently in habitats that encourage the greatest movement of diaspores. Floristic data can be used to infer retrospectively the dynamics of invasion of a species in a given area provided that there is a sufficient amount of floristic research over time.
4180403|Elytrigia turcica sp. nov., (Poaceae) (2n = 8x = 56), a member of the polyploid complex related to E. elongata (Host) Nevski, (2n = 2x = 14), is described and distinguished from E. pontica (Podp.) Holub, (2n = 10x = 70), which it most resembles.
4179960| Die vorliegende Studie, die letzte aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) ist den Arten der Gattung Nardia S. Gray corr. Carring. gewidmet. Die Gattung Nardia wird in zwei Untergattungen gegliedert, u. zw. Subg. Geoscypharia Trev. mit den Sektionen Sect. Breidlerion Grolle (2 Arten), Sect. Flagelliformes Inoue (2 Arten), Sect. Geoscypharia (6 Arten), Sect. Nudae sect. nova (1 Art) und Sect. Subclavatae Inoue (3 Arten) und Subg. Nardia (1 Art). Von 16 bekannten Arten der Gattung (eine Art, die nur im sterilen Zustand bekannt ist, hat eine unsichere Stellung) sind in dieser Studie 8 Arten (N. breidleri (Limpr.) Lindb., N. geoscyphus (De Not.) Lindb., N. insecta Lindb., N. scalaris S. Gray corr. Trev., N. nuda (Lindenb. et Gott.) Va, N. assamica (Mitt.) Amak., N. succulenta (Rich. ex Lehm.) Spruce und N. compressa (Hook.) S. Gray corr. Trev.) eingehend taxonomisch bearbeitet. Die verbliebenen 8 Arten wurden schon von anderen Autoren (Amakawa, Grolle, Inoue, Schuster) oder vom Verfasser in frheren Studien bearbeitet. /// This tenh study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys to species of the genus Nardia S. Gray corr. Carring. based on sterile and fertile plants. 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, data on the type and exsiccata of eight Nardia species. There are also notes on ecology, geographical distribution, taxonomy, variability and relationships of these taxa. The remaining eight species have been treated in articles by the present or other authors. 3. Discussion of all infraspecific taxa on the basis of the concept of habitat modifications. Taxonomically, N. (Geoscypharia) breidleri (Limpr.) Lindb., N. (G.) poeltii Va, N. (G.) arnelliana Grolle, N. (G.) flagelliformis Inoue, N. (G.) geoscyphus (De Not.) Lindb., N. (G.) insecta Lindb., N. (G.) japonica Steph., N. (G.) lescurii (Aust.) Und., N. (G.) scalaris S. Gray corr. Trev., N. (G.) assamica (Mitt.) Amak., N. (G.) subclavata (Steph.) Amak., N. (G.) succulenta (Rich. ex Lehm.) Spruce, N. (Nardia) compressa (Hook.) S. Gray corr. Trev. und N. (?) huerlimannii Va et Grolle are treated as good species. Many other taxa are considered to be habitat modifications. 
4180262|In deciduous and coniferous mountain forests the ecological analysis and biomass production have been studied with a view to the indication parameters of plants for estimating the ecological spectrum and the production capacity of the herbaceous layer. The linkage of natural conditions and the investigated ecological factors was confirmed in comparison with forest communities of the colline belt. The main quantitative and production parameters and theoretical aspects from the ecological analysis of biotopes have been verified by means of the Ellenberg method. The establishment of the productivity index makes the estimation of total production possible in conjunction with phytocenological research.
4179591| Die Arbeit befasst sich mit der Nomenklatur, Morphologie, Phytogeographie, Chorologie, Phytoznologie und kologie der Art Leucanthemum rotundifolium (W. K.) DC. innerhalb ihres Gesamtareals. Auf Grund der Analyse aller untersuchten Faktoren werden die Endergebnisse vom taxonomischen Gesichtspunkte vorgelegt. L. rotundifolium wird mit der am nchsten verwandten Art L. vulgare Lam. s. l. verglichen. /// Leucanthemum rotundifolium is a morphologically defined, stable species. The infraspecific taxa described in the literature do not pass beyond the limits of fluctuation variability. A statistical evaluation of variability was carried out for the following characters: lenght of the guard cells of stomata, diameter of pollen grains, length and width of the achene, high of the calyx fringe. The results of measurement are compared graphically with the theoretical distribution of frequency. The empirical values follow the theoretical values without deviation in the case of pollen grain diameter and achene width, but the achene length height of the calyx fringe and length of the stomatal guard cells show an irregular pattern. The results of achene measurements are very similar to those of Kynlov (1967). The characteristic features of L. rotundifolium morphology are compared with the closest related L. vulgare Lam. in a tabulated review. Cytological examination was carried out with plants of 10 populations from different sites of the area. In all cases the diploid chromosome number 2n = 18 was confirmed. The distribution of the species was investigated from herbarium material and according to the literature and was mapped by the point method (Figs. 7 and 8). In Czechoslovakia, L. r. was found to occur in the following mountain ranges: Vysok Beskydy, Mal Fatra, Nzk, Liptovsk, Vysok and Belansk Tatry and Nzk Poloniny. Occurrence in the Velk Fatra is postulated by the author. In Poland, the localities are restricted to the Tatry, Gorce and Bieszczady Zachodne mountain areas. Eastward, the localities reach throughout the Eastern Carpathians, starting with the High Polonines and proceeding to the Marmaros, Rodna and Ciucas Mts. from where it reaches westward to the Banat Mts. A small distribution area lies in the Bihor Mts. and an isolated locality as the last remnant of a formerly continuous area is found in the Vranica Planina Mts. in Bosnia. According to the area type L. r. belongs to the Carpathian subendemites. Phytocoenologically L. r. is associated mostly with the alliance Chrysanthemo-Piceion Krajina 1933 where it represents the indication species. At lower levels, it occurs prevalently in the suballiance Eu-Fagion Oberdorfer 1957 em. Tx. 1960. Beyond the forest line it is frequent in the alliance Pinion mughi Pawowski 1928 and in communities of the class Betulo-Adenostyletea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943 in which it is the indication species of the alliance Trisetion fusci Krajina 1933. It reaches highest in alliance Festucion pictae Krajina 1933, Salicion herbaceae Br.-Bl. in Br.-Bl. et Jenny 1926 and Androsacion alpinae Br.-Bl. in BR.-Bl. et Jenny 1926. The occurrence optimum lies in the montane and subalpine zone. The lowest known locality is in the Gorce Mts. (525 m), highest in the diarska Vidla in the Belansk Tatry (2060 m). Occurrence at these altitudes is made possible by the microclimate. L. r. is in all localities pronouncedly hygrophilic, in mountain pine stands weakly sciophilous, in the alpine zone chionophilous. The geological substratum is not decisive for the presence of the species, but on limestones associations with L. r. attain richer development. L. r. belongs to the cool climatic region with average air temperature during the vegetation season below 12C and with average annual precipitation over 700 mm. The morphological, cytological, phytocoenological and ecological distinctness of L. r. lead the author to the conclusion that the species is of very substantial age. It may have originated during the Quarternary glaciation but it may be even older. 
4181136|Weddellomyces aspiciliicola Alstrup, a lichenicolous ascomycete on Aspicilia radiosa, is described from Czecho-Slovakia.
4179443|Colmeiroa F. v. Muell. ist a later homonym and therefore a new name is proposed - Paracorokia. Its systematic position is discussed: it seems to belong to Cornaceae rather than to Escalloniaceae. Subgenus Discocrania Harms of the genus Cornus is published in a generic rank.
4181033| The ecology of seed germination was examined in air-conditioned boxes in the laboratory, and the sprouting of seeds was investigated in an experimental plot at Prhonice. The seeds show a marked dormancy caused by the impermeability of testa to water (seed hardcoatness). 72-100% of hard seeds were found in 16 seed samples. Seed hardcoatness is an important protective strategy of the species against the frost killing of seedlings and, on the other hand, for the longevity of seeds (Table 3) and for the possibility of endochoric spreading. It is also important to establish seed supply in the soil. The seed sprout from the first decade of April till the beginning of May. The soft seed sprout as early as in autumn, and the seedlings freeze out (Table 4). 
4180844| In order to improve the interpretation of the results of pollen analyses concerning mediaeval anthropogenous sediments a set of recent seeds of the principal cereals was pollenanalytically elaborated. The aim was to find out whether pollen grains can be preserved on mature seeds. The pollen spectra obtained from the material of mediaeval anthropogenous sediments include, in most cases, a large amount of pollen of certain plants including cereals. It is suggested that part of the pollen spectra from anthropogenous sediments need not come from air transport, i.e. from the surrounding vegetation; it could get into waste pits in another way. Above all, some foodstuffs were considered to be the sources of pollen grains. The origin of some grains coming from honey and from plant infusions has, at least partly, been demonstrated (Jankovsk 1987). As the next step, attention was paid to other products, mainly those of cereals. An experimental pollen analysis of recent seeds of selected cereals showed that pollen grains are preserved on their surface, often in high concentrations. This is due, above all, to the cleistogamy of most cereals. The highest values of pollen grains have so far been found in Avena sativa and Panicum milliaceum. Triticum aestivum and Hordeum vulgare showed lower values of pollen grains. The lowest amounts were found in heterogamous Secale cereale. Simultaneously, the pollen of plants growing in a neighbourhood, above all the pollen of field weeds, was found sticking to the seeds. /// Aus den ermittelten Pollenspektren einzelner Getreidesamenproben ist klar ersichtlich, dass die Voraussetzung vom Anhaften der Pollenkrner an den reifen Getreidefrchten richtig war. Es hat sich besttigt, dass bei den kleistogamen (selbstbestubenden) Arten an den Getreidefrchten weit mehr Pollen haften bleibt als bei den fremdbestubenden. Die hchste Pollenzahl wurde an den Frchten der Art Avena sativa festgestellt, deren heute angebauten Sorte selbstbestubend sind. Hohe Pollenwerte erwies auch die Probe von Panicum milliaceum-Frchten. Die Triticum aestivum-Frchte wurden in drei Proben aus verschiedenen Gebieten der Tschechoslowakei untersucht. Die Pollenfrequenz war bei allen Proben ziemlich bereinstimmend, sie war jedoch niedriger als bei Avena und Panicum. Genau so kann man auch die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen von Getreidefrchten dreier Hordeum vulgare-Proben bewerten. Abweichende Resultate lieferten Pollenanalysen des Materials von Secale cereale. An fnf Prparaten wurden nur sehr wenig Pollenkrner festgestellt. Die Ergebnisse entsprechen jedoch der ursprnglichen Vermutung, denn es handelt sich um fremdbestubende Art und der Pollen wird aus dem Staubbeutel schon beim Blhen entleert. An den reifen Getreidefrchten bleibt der Pollen nur gelegentlich haften. Die Zeit, die der Pollen an reifen Frchten smtlicher Getreidearten berdauern kann, drfte wahrscheinlich unbeschrnkt sein. Es wurde Material mit verschiedenem Erntedatum bearbeitet und es scheint nicht, dass sich die Zahl der Pollenkrner an den Getreidefrchten mit den anwachsenden Jahren verringern wrde. Bei durchgefhrter experimenteller Pollenanalyse wurde ebenfalls festgestellt, dass an den Getreidefrchten nicht nur der Pollen der Mutterpflanze haften bleibt, sondern auch der Pollen anderer Pflanzen. Es handelt sich meistens um in Getreidekulturen wachsende Unkrautarten, deren Pollen aus der Umgebung angeflogen kam. Fr die Interpretation der Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen aus den anthropogenen Sedimenten kann aus den vorgenommenen Experimenten gefolgert werden, dass in diesen Fllen unumgnglich eine andere Bewertungsweise der erzielten Resultate angewendet werden muss. An erster Stelle muss man mit den anthropischen Momenten rechnen. Eine solche Interpretation, die bei natrlichen Ablagerungen blich vorgenommen wird, wrde zu durchaus verfehlten Schlssen fhren. 
4180855|In this paper I examine some differences between the ideals of systematic traditional phytosociology and pragmatic numerical ones, and identify a difference in their view of the role of a stand. Traditionally very few stands are regarded as typifying the Association, most stands being regarded as being composed of elements of several types. The approaches using numerical methods, by contrast, have generally regarded all stands as equally contributing to the definition of patterns. This difference is reflected in the methodologies regarded as appropriate for the two cases. Attention is then given to eight classes of methods which relax the numerical insistence on crisp clusters in various ways, to permit the simultaneous presence of several types in a single stand. A stand may be assigned to one or to several clusters, and such assignment may be complete or partial. The methods are exemplified and their various possibilities and problems discussed.
4180898|The present paper discusses the nomenclature problem of the name Chaerophyllo-Valerianetum pyrenaiceae: the later homonym appeared as the result of correction of another published name. Possible solutions are put forward.
4179992| Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit der geobotanischen und palogeobotanischen Bearbeitung einiger Moore im oberen Gurgltal, tztaler Alpen - sterreich. Der phytoznologische Teil bringt die Beschreibung und synkologische Charakteristik der Moorgesellschaften und deutet ihre syndynamischen Beziehungen an. Der palogeobotanische Teil stellt die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalyse des Zirbenwaldmoores und ihre Interpretation vor. Ferner wird eine Rekonstruktion der Entwicklung und Sukzession der torfbildenden Gesellschaften im Zirbenwaldmoor und Rotmoos versucht. Diese Untersuchung sttzt sich auf die Pflanzengrossrestanalyse. Ebenfalls bringt diese Arbeit eine bersicht der untersuchten Lokalitten und ihre Vegetationscharakteristik. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit wurde bei den Untersuchungen dem Rotmoos gewidmet, von dem ausser der Situationskarte auch noch eine detaillierte Vegetations- und Torfmchtigkeitskarte verffentlicht wird. /// The present study sums up the results of phytocoenological and palaeoecological investigation of mires situated in the upper part of the Gurgltal in the tztaler Alps (Austria). The phytocoenological investigations are based on Central-European phytocoenological principles. In addition to the description of plant communities, the study also supplies some synecological data. Most of the stands found in the area are classified among fen communities of the Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae Nordh. in Tx. 1937. The synthesis performed confirmed the usefulness of the Drepanocladion exannulati Krajina 1933. The Drepanoclado exannulati-Eriophoretum scheuchzeri Rynek ass. nova and Drepanoclado exannulati-Caricetum fuscae Krajina 1933 with two new subassociations were classified to this alliance. The Carici echinatae-Trichophoretum caespitosi (Koch 1928) Rybnek nomen novum (also with two new subassociations) is attributed to the Caricion demissae Rybnek 1964. Of the Caricion davallianae Klika 1934 the Carex capillaris-Drepanocladus revolvens community was recorded in fragments. Raised-bog communities (Oxycocco-Sphagnetea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943) are almost absent in the area, or are represented by fragments only. Of the other non-peat communities, descriptions are given of secondary Nardus-stands and of the Saxifraga stellaris-Anisothecium squarrosum community in spring areas. Special attention was devoted to the study of probable syndynamic relations between the plant communities under study. The Eriophoretum scheuchzeri and Carex capillaris-Drepanocladus revolvens communities, denoted as initial vegetational stands, passed through a series of several subassociations of the Drepanoclado exannulati-Caricetum fuscae to the Carici echinatae-Trichophoretum caespitosi, which is regarded as the final stage of the natural succession under the given conditions in the area. Nardus stricta stands make their appearance as the result of the degradation of various mire communities. The ascertained syndynamic relations approximately correspond to the succession of peat-forming communities as determined by macroscopic analyses of sediments from Rotmoos and Zirbenwaldmoor. The palaeoecological investigations are devoted to the stratigraphy of profiles and to a reconstruction of the development of peat-forming communities in Rotmoos and Zirbenwaldmoor as well as to the evaluation of pollen analyses from Zirbenwaldmoor. The peat-forming process in Rotmoos began at the end of the Younger Atlantic Period and was interrupted by frequent transportation of mineral sediments. The initial stages were formed by a community similar to the present Carex capillaris-Drepanocladus revolvens community, which developed gradually into stands close to the present Drepanoclado exannulati-Caricetum fuscae and, finally, Carici echinatae-Trichophoretum caespitosi. On the other hand, the vegetational evolution of Zirbenwaldmoor began with the infilling of a shallow lake in the Boreal Period and was not interrupted by mineral sedimentation. The speed of peat accumulation was, however, very irregular, depending perhaps on the local hydrological situation; an almost complete cessation in the growth of the deposit and the drying-off of the surface was found to have taken place between the end of the Younger Atlantic and the beginning of the Older Sub-atlantic Periods. The first established plant community of the peat-forming process in Zirbenwaldmoor was formed by Potamogeton alpinus, Hippuris vulgaris, Sparganium minimum, Heleocharis palustris and Carex fusca. The following mosses were also found: Drepanocladus exannulatus, Sphagnum teres, Calliergon giganteum, etc. In the subsequent stages, sedges were the dominant species (Carex canescens, C. rostrata) together with Sphagnum sect. acutifolia, which was replaced by Sphagnum magellanicum at the end of the Younger Atlantic Period. During the following drying-off of the surface, birch vegetation covered the mire and remained there for a long period of time. The revival of peat-forming activity gave rise to a plant community close to the present Carici echinatae-Trichophoretum caespitosi eriophoretosum vaginati. Pollen analyses of the Zirbenwaldmoor profile offer evidence concerning both the representation of trees and approximate composition of vegetation at the forest line, and the climatic changes which have taken place since the Boreal Period (with the exception of the Sub-boreal Period, whose sediment is almost absent in the profile). Only Pinus (cembra), Larix europaea and, in the course of the Atlantic Period, Picea excelsa can be considered as forest-forming tree in the area. Their occurrence in the close vicinity of the mire is also documented by finds o needles and seeds. However, the pollen analyses do not prove that the forest line descended conspicuously below the niveau of the locality during the development of the deposit, even though the pollen diagram records several fluctuations in the ratio AP: NAP testifying to changes in the extent of the representation of forest and non-forest vegetation in the neighbourhood. The changes are explained by climatic fluctuations, whose occurrence in the Alps is supported by glaciological research. The authors endeavour to correlate the fluctuation in vegetation with those (so far ascertained and described) of the climate and the glaciers. The work ends with a survey of the mire localities studied in the upper part of the Gurgltal. The locality of Rotmoos is described in detail and several maps (situation, vegetation, peat depths with cross sections) are added. 
4179462| Zu den acht bisher bekannten Arten der Gattung Ramonia (cfr. Vzda 1966) wurden weitere zwei beigefgt: R. luteola sp. n. und R. gvalectiformis (Zahlbr.) comb. n. Es ist der Vergleich mit den, ihnen taxonomisch am nchsten stehenden Arten, gegeben. Um einen Vergleich auch mit brigen Ramonia-Arten zu ermglichen, ist der Schlssel fr alle Arten angefhrt. /// Au genre Ramonia doivent tre ajoutes deux nouvelles espces: 1. Ramonia luteola sp. n. dcouverte dans les Basses Tatras (Carpathes). Cette espce est proche parente de deux espces de Ramonia rencontres jusqu'ici en Europe: R. subsphaeroides (C. Tav.) Vzda et R. chrysophaea (Pers.) Vzda. Toutefois elle se distingue de celles-ci, en particulier par son hymnium moins haut et par ses spores plus petites, munies seulement de 7 cloisons transversales. Au point de vue cologique, R. luteola apparat comme une espce corticole, sciophile et ombrophobe, mais ncessitant un degr lev d'humidit atmosphrique. 2. Ramonia gyalectiformis (Zahlbr.) comb. n. dcrite primitivement comme une espce de Bilimbia. L'anatomie des fructifications correspond cependant bien  celle des Ramonia. A cause de l'excipulum sombre et du bord de l'ouverture centrale fendill-radi, cette espce appartient  la section Ramonia. Elle se distingue de deux expces dj dcrites dans cette section, R. valenzueliana (Mont.) Stiz. et R. absonsa (Tuck.) Vzda, notamment par ses spores plus grosses et groupes par 8 dans les asques. Contrairement aux autres Ramonia, habituellement corticoles, R. gyalectiformis crot sur la terre rase. 
4180133| Die synmorphologische, syntaxonomische, synkologische, symphnologische und synchorologisch Charakteristik der Assoziation Anthriscetum trichospermae Hejn et Krippelov in Hejn et al. 1979 ist angefhrt. Es handelt sich um eine wrmeliebende, nitrophile Therophyten-Gesellschaft auf lehmigen bis lehmig-sandigen Ruderalbden, die warme, lichte oder mssig beschattete Orte, steile Feldraine und Lese-Steinhaufen in Weingrten im sdlichen Teil des Gebirges Mal Karpaty (Westslowakei) besiedelt. Das Vorkommen dieser Assoziation ist auch von Ungarn angegeben. /// The synmorphological, syntaxonomical, synecological, symphenological, syndynamical and synchorological description of the association Anthriscetum trichospermae Hejn et Krippelov in Hejn et al. 1979 alliance Galio-Alliarion) is presented. Anthriscetum trichospermae is a therophytic a nitrophytic plant community growing on clayey and clayey-sandy ruderal soils. Can be found at warm, light or slightly shaded sites such as steep vineyard balk and stony ramparts in the southern part of Mal Karpaty Mountains (Western Slovakia). The occurrence of this association from the territory of Hungary is documented in the present study. 
4180967| The synanthropic vegetation in seven villages of Northern Greece (N Pindhos and Olympus massif) - situated either in the Quercion confertae or in the Fagetalia zone - is analyzed on the basis of about 100 phytosociological relevs. The most important vascular plant species of ruderal sites have also been mapped floristically. Nineteen plant communities are discernible, some of which are mentioned for the first time here. Nevertheless, the author refrains from hastily describing new associations, unless a more detailed phytosociological data basis on ruderal vegetation in the Southern Balkans is available. A table refers to differences and similarities between the recognized plant communities in Greek villages and those which correspond to them in Central Europe. Non-industrial methods of agriculture and animal husbandry are among the most important conditions for the remarkable rich vegetation in Greek mountain villages. 
4180497| The author analyses the process of apophytisation in the perennial nitrophilous species of the class Galio-Urticetea. By means of the deductive method, the syntaxonomical position of communities with the same dominant or subdominant species is evaluated in a sequence from autochthonous (natural) through natural-like to purely anthropogenic (allochthonous) phytocenoses. /// Es wird der Versuch einer syntaxonomischen Auswertung des Apophytisierungs-prozesses unserer einheimischen Arten der Galio-Urticetea-Gemeinschaften vorgelegt. Eine anthropisch bedingte sekundre Ausbreitung dieser Arten in allochthonen (anthropogenen) Gesellschaften verursacht einen Zerfall ihrer ursprnglichen znologischen Bindung an bestimmte autochthone (natrliche) Gemeinschaften der Convolvuletalia sepium- und Petasito-Chaerophylletalia-Einheiten. Das heisst, dass in einem bestimmten Gebiet dieselben Arten sowohl in natrlichen als auch anthropogenen Gesellschaften mit hoher Stetigkeit und hohem Deckungswert vertreten sein knnen. Diese Tatsache kann in sog. syntaxonomischen Derivatreihen (nach Kopeck et Hejn 1971) zum Ausdruck gebracht werden. Die syntaxonomischen Derivatreihen stellen eine Abfolge von den natrlichen zu den anthropogenen Znosen derselben Arten dar, wobei die ersten Glieder der Reihen von den natrlichen (autochthonen) Znosen gebildet werden. Diese von sog. Autoassoziationen zu den Anthropoassoziationen (im Sinne von Mirek 1981) fhrende Gesellschaftsentwicklung wird in vier Stufen des Apophytisierungsprozesses der einheimischen Gesellschaftskomponenten abgestuft. Die syntaxonomische Auswertung einzelner Gesellschaftstypen wurde unter Anwendung der sog. deduktiven Klassifikationsmethode durchgefhrt. Die Arbeit wird durch eine bersicht ber die im sdwestlichen Prager Gebiet vorkommenden Gesellschaftstypen abgeschlossen. 
4180853|The paper sums up the first results obtained from the study of belowground biomass estimated in natural and anthropic savanna communities in different regions of Cuba at the end of the 1984 rainy season. The percentage of living roots in total root biomass of natural savannas was lower (34-50%) than that in the anthropic savanna stands (68-74%). The total belowground biomass in three savanna stands ranged from 1,073 to
4179434| Root-tip chromosome counts of 25 samples referable to two species, C. rotundifolia L. and C. polymorpha (Witasek) Prain et al., have been carried out. Seed was collected from different localities in Czechoslovakia, Denmark, England, Germany, Sweden, and Switzerland. Of the 21 samples belonging to C. rotundifolia L., 13 are shown to be diploid (2n = 34) and 4 were tetraploid (2n = 68). The other 4 samples were heterogeneous, including diploids, occasional tetraploids and triploid hybrids. In one diploid sample accessory chromosomes were recorded. All 4 samples of C. polymorpha (Witasek) Prain et al. from the Western Carpathians had 2n = 68. /// Es wurden die Chromosomenzahlen von 21 Populationen der Art C. rotundifolia L. und von 4 Populationen der Art C. polymorpha (Witasek) Prain et al. bestimmt. Die Untersuchung erfolgte an wild gesammeltem Material von verschiedenen Standorten in der Tschechoslowakei, Dnemark, Deutschland, England, Schweden und der Schweiz. Aus den Ergebnissen geht hervor, dass die diploide Form (2n = 34) von C. rotundifolia in Mitteleuropa ziemlich verbreitet ist. So erwiesen sich insgesamt 13 Populationen als diploid. Diploide Formen werden auch fr England erstmals nachgewiesen. In 4 diploiden Populationen wurden sporadische Tetraploide sowie triploide Hybriden beobachtet. Bei einer diploiden Population aus England konnten akzessorische Chromosomen gefunden werden. C. polymorpha aus den Westkarpaten ist tetraploid mit 2n = 68. 
4179752| A new species, Heliotropium gossypii Ponert, is described from N.E. Iran. Observations made in the type locality suggest that this new species may be a facultative cotton weed. The following diagnostic characters separate H. gossypii from H. noanum Boiss., H. sultanense Bunge and H. chorassanicum Bunge: branching of inflorescence, calyx persistent, up to 3.5 mm long, corolla less than 2 mm in diameter, anthers 0.85 mm long, superstigmatic part of style erecto-pilose throughout, nutlets 2 mm long, shortly pilose. 
4179844| Aufgrund des Studiums von Diasporologie der Familie Fabaceae und anderer Arten der tschechoslowakischen Flora wurde im vorliegenden Beitrag die diasporologische Terminologie durch folgende neue Fachausdrcke ergnzt: Hydroballochorie, Xeroballochorie, Euxeroballochorie, Hemixeroballochorie. Die Xerochasie ist in Euxerochasie und Pseudoxerochasie und die Hygrochasie in Euhygrochasie, Hemihygrochasie und Pseudohygrochasie geteilt. Bei der Synaptospermie wird Eusynaptospermie und Pseudosynaptospermie unterscheidet. Weiter wurde ein neuer Typ der Arokarpie - die Chamelokarpie beschrieben, der in Euchamelokarpie und Pseudochamelokarie eingeteilt ist. 
4180687|A successional vegetation mosaic occurring on a prehistoric lava field of the Hekla volcano is described. The unique lava formation is associated with two vegetation types, distinct floristically as well as phytosociologically. In one vegetation type cryptograms dominate; the other is dominated by small leaved graminoids and chamaephytic plants.
4180170| Das Anthriscetum sylvestris Hada 1978 (Verband Aegopodion podagrariae), eine expansive Ruder algesellschaft, wurde auf Grund von 36, aus der ganzen Slowakei stammenden, Vegetationsa ufnahmen charakterisiert. In Bezug auf die floristische und kologische Diversitt wurden die folgenden neuen Syntaxa ausgeschieden: A. s. brometosum sterilis (mit der typischen Variante und der Variante mit Poa nemoralis) und A. s. potosum trivialis (mit der typischen Variante und der Variante mit Ranunculus repens). Die syntaxonomischen und syndynamischen Beziehungen der Assoziation werden diskutiert. /// The Anthriscetum sylvestris (alliance Aegopodion podagrariae) is a ruderal plant community with high expansibility. The characteristic of this association is presented on the basis of 36 vegetation relevs from the area of Slovakia. The following lower ranked syntaxa were distinguished as to floristical and ecotopical diversity: Anthriscetum sylvestris brometosum sterilis (typical variant and var. with Poa nemoralis) and Anthriscetum sylvestris potosum trivialis (typical variant and var. with Ranunculus repens). The former subassociation is characteristic for typical ruderal sites (dumps, edges of dry dunghills). Phytocoonoses of the Anthriscetum sylvestris potosum trivialis occupy wetter sites (road ditches, abandoned fruit gardens). The presence of the Molinio-Arrhenatheretea character species is important for the delimitation of the Anthriscetum sylvestris potosum trivialis. Syntaxonomic and syndynamical relations of the community under consideration are discussed. 
4179454| Chromosome numbers of the Czechoslovak species of the genus Lotus, from various localities have been determined. The paper includes the species Lotus uliginosus Schkuhr, L. tenuis Waldst. et Kit. and L. borbsii Ujhelyi. 
4180217|The paper gives the chromosome numbers for 38 species of the Mongolian Flora. Some of the counts appear to be the first findings for the species. They are: Allium anisopodium 2n = 16, Caltha membranacea 2n = 32, Carex macroura 2n = 50, Carex redowskiana 2n = 26, Gastrolychnis brachypetala 2n = 72, Iris biglumis 2n = 40, Iris flavissima 2n = 28 and Vicia multicaulis 2n = 24.
4179459| Mire plant communities of the W. Krkonoe mountains may be grouped in 11 associations and 3 alliances: Caricion canescentis-fuscae, Rhynchosporion albae and Oxycocco-Empetrion hermaphroditi. The ecology, structure and geographical distribution of the communities, as well as the ecology of the species occurring in them are discussed. /// Die Autoren haben im westlichen Teil des Riesengebirges insgesamt 11 Assoziationen der Moore gefunden und zu folgenden hheren Einheiten gruppiert: Caricion canescentis-fuscae, Unterverb. Drepanocladion exannulati (mesotrophe Moorgesellschaften) Calliergo sarmentosi-Eriophoretum angustifolii Sphagno recurvi-Caricetum rostratae Junco filiformis-Sphagnetum recurvi * Polytricho communis-Molinietum coeruleae Rhynchosoporion albae, Unterverb. Leuko-Scheuchzerion (Gesellschaften der Schlenke und Tmpel in Hochmooren) * Carici rostratae-Drepanocladetum fluitantis Sphagno Dusenii-Caricetum limosae Sphagno Lindbergii-Caricetum limosae Oxycocco-Empetrion hermaphroditi (Bultengesellschaften der Hochmoore) Trichophoretum austriaci * Sphagno robusti-Empetretum hermaphroditi Eriophoro vaginati-Polytrichetum stricti Chamaemoro-Pinetum mughi. Die drei Assoziationen, die mit Sternchen bezeichnet sind, werden als neue Assoziationen beschrieben, die brigen sind mit schon beschriebenen Gesellschaften identifiziert. Die Struktur, kologie und Verbreitung der besprochenen Gesellschaften, und die Autkologie einzelner Arten, die dort wachsen, werden diskutiert. Die Moorgesellschaften von Krkonoe (Riesengebirge) zeigen eine enge Verwandtschaft zu den Gesellschaften von Skandinavia, Erzgebirge und Gesenke. 
4181170| In this paper we present a synopsis of the rupicolous vegetation found in Galicia, according to the Zrich-Montpellier School. The climate of this territory, an area of 29,439 km
4181375|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat & Moravec 1995), the present work collects the syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1992. The list comprises 127 names of syntaxa.
4179490|Chromosome numbers of 46 samples referable to the species Jasione montana L. were examined. The material originated from different localities in Portugal, France, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and the Soviet Union. All the samples were found to be diploid, having 2n = 12 chromosomes. The aneuploid number, 2n = 14, is shown to be limited to the var. litoralis Fries. Polyploidy has not been observed.
4179761| Die dritte Studie aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) enthlt die taxonomische Bearbeitung des Subg. Jungermannia Subg. Liochlaena (Nees) S. Arnell. Nach dem Verfasser gehren zu diesem Subgenus nur zwei Arten, J. leiantha Grolle und J. subulata Evans. /// The third study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Synonymy, description and keys to the species of the subgenus Liochlaena (Nees) S. Arnell (genus Jungermannia). 2. Synonymy, drawings, description, type, exsiccata, ecological notes, distribution, material examined, taxonomical notes, variability and relationships of 2 species of the subgenus Liochlaena (Nees) S. Arnell. 3. Discussion of all infraspecific taxa on the basis of the concept of habitat modifications. 
4179430| Die Verfasserin berichtet ber die Entdeckung des in Krockers "Flora Silesiaca" (1790) verffentlichten Fundes des nordamerikanischen Ankmmlings Bidens frondosa L. in der Umgebung von Wrocaw (deutsch Breslau) im Jahre 1777. Dieser alte Fund blieb bisher von Botanikern unbeachtet. Die Analyse der Beschreibung besttigte die Richtigkeit der von Krocker vorgenommenen Bestimmung dieser Art. Die Ermittlung dieses Fundes begrndet die Vermutung, dass der Oderflussweg fr die Ausbreitung von Bidens frondosa in Mitteleuropa von primrer Bedeutung ist. 
4181489|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1993, 1028 names have been listed and the validity of each one is considered in relation to the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature. Two names are given in addition to the Index 1992 (Theurillat & Moravec 1995).
4181424|Die-back and healthy stands of Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud., in the U.K. and Hungary, were compared in terms of plant morphology and anatomy, sediment redox potential and sulphide levels and plant resistance to internal Poiseuille gas flow. In laboratory experiments rhizome cuttings were exposed to acetic acid or dissolved sulphide in unstirred solution cultures in order to determine whether the die-back symptoms found in the field could be induced by these phytotoxins. Most of the die-back symptoms, namely stunting of adventitious roots and laterals, bud death, callus blockages of the gas-pathways, and vascular blockages (both xylem and phloem), were produced by each of the phytotoxin treatments. These symptoms were largely absent from healthy field sites and from the experimental controls. In a greenhouse experiment, plants were grown in waterlogged sand or loam, with or without a sub-surface organic layer composed of chopped-up rhizomes and roots mixed with the soil base. Especially during the first 70 days, redox levels were considerably lowered, and shoot numbers and shoot growth much reduced by the presence of the organic layers; the effects were most pronounced in the sand plus organic matter treatment. It is suggested that accumulated phytotoxins, e.g. organic acids and/or sulphide, whether produced from the death and decay of the plant, or from excessive organic loading or as an indirect result of eutrophication, will perpetuate the die-back of Phragmites and prevent the recovery of the plant in the short term.
4179558| Auf Grund der neuentdeckten Quellen wurde die Art Iva xanthiifolia schon im Jahre 1934 in der Tschechoslowakei gefunden. Im Jahre 1936 waren schon 4 Fundorte in der Sdslowakei bekannt. Angesichts der unterschiedlichen Progressivitt der Art in Bhmen und in der Slowakei wurde die Keimungsbiologie der Diasporen von drei Fundorten in der Slowakei (enkov, urany, Bratislava) und von Nymburk (Bhmen) verglichen, wobei interessante Unterschiede ans Licht kamen. Der Unterschied zwischen den Populationen aus dem Osten und Westen des Staates kann durch die klimatischen Bedingungen, bzw. durch die verschiedene Provenienz erklrt werden. Beim Studium der Karpologie wurde die Heterokarpie der Frchte festgestellt. In der vorliegenden Arbeit wird der gegenwrtige Zustand der Verbreitung der Art in der Tschechoslowakei zusammengefasst. /// Iva xanthiifolia was not introduced to Czechoslovakia after the Second World War, but considerably before this period. In 1934, F. Weber collected this species at 3 localities in the neighbourhood of urany (S. Slovakia), and his further collection dates from 1936. This may explain why the richest centre of occurrence in Czechoslovakia is in this region. At that time the big farms of this region used to obtain most of the cereals for cultivation or fodder from Hungary and Rumania; since the localities of this weed species are all situated near the big farms we suppose that was introduced with the grain. The ability of Iva xanthiifolia to spread seems to be considerably different in Slovakia and in Bohemia. We examined therefore the viability of achenes from three localities in Slovakia (enkov, Bratislava, urany) and from one in Bohemia (Nymburk). Our experiments showed differences in the biology of germinating achenes from the two regions (see Tab. 2). The differences may perhaps be explained in terms of adaptation to different climatic conditions (more continental in Slovakia), or of different origin of the two populations. It cannot be excluded that the achenes of the Bohemian population had been introduced directly from North America or indirectly from Germany, after the war. The actual distribution of Iva xanthiifolia in Czechoslovakia has been worked out from all main Czechoslovakia herbaria, as well as from our own or our colleagues' field observations; (see Fig. 10). From the present distribution the probable future spreading of Iva xanthiifolia can be predicted. The vertical distribution of the species is shown in Fig. 9, its actual distribution is characterized macroclimatically in Fig. 7 and 8. Carpological studies have revealed that achenes of Iva xanthiifolia are heterocarpic (see Fig. 8); the reason for this heterocarpy is the localisation of the fruits in the fruithead. 
4179561| Der Gattungsname Aconitopsis Kem.-Nath. 1940 ist ein Synonym der gltig beschriebenen Gattung Aconitella Spach 1839; diese Gattung umfasst 10 Arten und steht der Gattung Consolida S. A. Gray am nchsten. Neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen fr die Arten der Gattung Aconitella werden verffentlicht. 
4180694|It is suggested to add to Walter's "two dimensional" (temperature-precipitation) climatograms a third dimension, i.e. the daylength and sunshine variation.
4179947|Hesperis matronalis L. subsp. matronalis contains various genoms having the same chromosome number (2n = 24), differing, however, by the r-index of some pairs of homologous chromosomes. Diploid sets of the taxa Hesperis matronalis L. subsp. matronalis, Hesperis sylvestris Crantz subsp. sylvestris, Hesperis sylvestris Crantz subsp. velenovskyi (Fritsch) Borza and Hesperis steveniana DC. are compared.
4181124|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat et Moravec 1991a), the present work collects the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1989. The list comprises 110 names of syntaxa.
4180912| The conditions of embryo development, of germination and sprouting in the species Pulsatilla slavica (north Carpathian endemite) were ascertained. By studies of germination ecology of Pulsatilla slavica it was found that the development of the underdeveloped embryo and germination set in at about 10 C to about 30 C. Of the temperatures examined, the temperature of about 25 C, and alternating ones, the temperature of 10/30 C appeared to be the optima. At the temperature of 25 C, the rate of loss of germination capacity was ascertained partly in fully ripe achenes, partly in achenes collected in the stage of wax-ripeness. After 39 weeks of room storage, 62.6% of fully ripe achenes and 32.6% of achenes collected in the stage of waxripeness germinated. The achenes sown after full ripeness in the middle of June sprouted in the middle of July, those sown at the beginning of October sprouted during the first decade of May, and those sown at the beginning of April sprouted during the third decade of May. Pulsatilla slavica reproduces spontaneously only in the generative way, but it can also be propagated vegetatively by root cuttings. 
25130304|Phytosociological analysis of savanna and forb-rich communities in the Pinar del Rio Province was done in the area of Remates de Guane; one locality lies on the seashore in the western part of the province. Altogether six associations were distinguished. Five of them, viz. Sclerio curtissii-Centelletum erectae, Schultezio guianensis-Rhynchosporetum fascicularis, Cassio diphyllae-Hypericetum stypheloidis, Polygalo squamifoliae-Dichromenetum seslerioidis and Phyllantho juncei-Aristidetum, all newly described in this paper, are classified into the order of Acoelorapho-Colpothrinacetalia Bal.-Tul. in Bal.-Tul. et Capote 1985 with two alliances. One association, the Paspalo debilis-Asteretum grisebachii Bal.-Tul. et Capote 1992, was put into the order of Asteretalia grisebachii Bal.-Tul. in Bal.-Tul. et Capote 1992 with one alliance bound to inland moving dunes. The plant composition reflects soil quality, above all the water regime. Very interesting is the presence of the Byrsonimo crassifoliae-Andropogonetalia teneris-species in the association of Polygalo-Dichromeneteum seslerioidis indicating the rich presence of stones in the upper part of the soil profile.
4179423| Various possibilities of using Srensen's coefficient of floristic similarity in plant sociology are summarized. A new formula (11), derived from that by Srensen and based on constancy values, is suggested in order to calculate the mean floristic similarity within a set of relevs. /// Der vorliegende Artikel fasst alle Mglichkeiten der Anwendung des Srensen's Koefizienten der floristischen Verwandschaft zusammen. Die im Text angefhrten Formeln dienen zur Berechnung der durchschnittlichen floristischen Verwandschaft zwischen zwei Gruppen der Aufnahmen und zwischen der Gruppe und der selbstndigen Aufnahme. Zwei Formeln (11) und (12) werden neu vorgeschlagen, die zur Berechnung der durchschnittlichen floristischen Verwandschaft in den Grenzen einer Gruppe der Aufnahme dienen, wenn nur Konstanzwerte verwendet werden. 
4180740| The report informs on progress in compilation of the Vegetation Map of Europe between 1981 and 1985. The most important results are the first version of the complete legend to the Vegetation Map of Europe and the first draft of unified maps for the territory of Central and Southeast Europe. /// Die wichtigsten Ergebnisse der Arbeiten am Projekt der Vegetationskarte Europas in den Jahren 1981-1985 sind folgende: 1. Die Rahmengliederung der europischen Vegetation in Haupteinheiten fr die Legende wurde erarbeitet und bei mehreren nationalen Kartenentwrfen berprft. Die Haupteinheiten spiegeln die klimabedingten zonalen (bzw. zonal-etagalen) Vegetationsgrtel und die wichtigsten azonalen Erscheinungen wider und entsprechen den Formationseinheiten verschiedener Rangstufen, zum Teil den kologisch oder rumlich nahestehenden Formationskomplexen. 2. Die Arbeit an der hierarchisierten Gesamtlegende aller Haupteinheiten der ganzeuropischen Karte wurde beendet. Die neue Fassung der Gesamtlegende wird publiziert. Als Kartierungsein-heiten sind die sich durch bestimmte Dominanten und floristische Merkmale unterscheidenden regionalen Ausbildungen der natrlichen Vegetation festgelegt. Die Kartierungseinheiten besitzen die Farbtne der entsprechenden Formationen bzw. ihrer unmittelbar nachgeordneten Untereinheiten und sind mit kennzeichnenden Symbolen versehen. Ihre etagale Zugehrigkeit ist durch Schraffierungen verschiedener Richtungen dargestellt. 3. Fr einen grossen Teil von Europa wurden die Kartenentwrfe auf einheitlicher kartographischer Grundlage (im Masstab 1: 2,5 Mio.) nach der einheitlichen Gesamtlegende hergestellt und grsstenteils auch in den Grenzgebieten abgestimmt. 4. Das Projekt der Vegetationskarte Europas wird seit 1983 im Rahmen des wissenschaftlichen Programmes der IUBS als Aufgabe 4.4 realisiert. 
4181185|In the present contribution, a brief survey of the progress of work on the Vegetation map of Europe within the last two years is given. The most important tasks of this period were: 1) Continuing compilation and completion of the thirteen remaining sheets of the Map, scale 1:2,500,000, 2) Elaboration of the explanatory text, 3) Compilation of a General vegetation map of Europe, scale 1:10,000,000.
4181374|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire et Jardin botaniques in Geneva. For the year 1992, 658 names have been listed. For each one of them, an appreciation about its validity is given relating to the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature. Fifteen names are given in addition to the Indexes 1987, 1990 and 1991 (Theurillat & Moravec 1990, 1993, 1994).
4179779|A study of the terrestrial polypore Albatrellus subrubescens (Murrill) Pouz. (= A. similis) was undertaken. Its morphology, taxonomy, nomenclature, distribution and ecology is discussed.
4180394|Taxonomic and chorological remarks on the Hieracium flora of the Caucasian countries are given. A list contains localities of 28 taxa of the genus Hieracium (incl. Pilosella) from Georgia and Armenia. H. piloselloides (sensu auct. medioeurop.) is new for the Soviet part of Transcaucasia.
4179858| A new monotypic genus based on Ptosimopappus bracteatus Boiss. = Centaurea ptosimopappa Hayek is described. The history of its classification and relationships to Cheirolophus Cass. and Microlophus Cass. are discussed. /// Die Art Ptosimopappus bracteatus Boiss. 1849 steht in der Sutribus Centaureinae sehr isoliert. Vom Boissier wurde sie in Cheirolophus Cass. (unter dem Gattungsnamen Ptosimopappus Boiss. 1845) eingereiht; einige wichtige Merkmale zeigen jedoch, dass Cheirolophus zu einer anderen und entwicklungsgeschichtlich primitiveren Gruppe der Gattungen in Centaureinae als Ptosimopappus bracteatus gehrt. Auch in der Gruppe der Gattungen, die den Pollen-Typus "Jacea" wie diese Art besitzen, kann Ptosimopappus bracteatus kaum befriedigend phylogenetisch an irgendeine dieser Gattungen angeknpft werden. Manche morphologische Merkmale sind mit Microlophus Cass. gemeinsam, aber die karpologischen Unterschiede zeigen, dass Ptosimopappus bracteatus zu einer anderen Entwicklungslinie als Microlophus gehren muss. Die isolierte Stellung dieser Art kann in unseren Klassifikationsbersichten nur durch ihre Annahme als einen Vertreter einer monotypischen Gattung ausgedrckt werden. Dies wurde zwar vor kurzer Zeit vom Dostl vorgeschlagen; der von ihm gebrauchte Gattungsname Ptosimopappus ist aber regelwidrig. Deswegen wurde hier eine neue Gattung beschrieben, und zwar unter dem Namen Petrodavisia. 
4181445|Podotara gen. nov. (incertae sedis) is described. It is based on the foliicolous taxon P. pilophoriformis sp. nov., which is described and illustrated. Characteristic of the new genus and species are globose and stipitate apothecia and 3-septate, hyaline, thin-walled ascospores with annular thickening of the septa. Scoliciosporum lividum sp. nov. (Scoliciosporaceae) differs from all species of its genus known to date by its leprose grey thallus, its livid, globose, dull apothecia, and its 3-septate ascospores spirally contorted in the ascus.
4179994| 103 new nomenclatural combinations are proposed for taxa of European flora, 95 for species, 8 for subspecies. Most of them have resulted from a more natural delimitation of genera. The majority of new combinations are made in the segregants of Centaurea (Acosta - 16, Colymbada - 8), Hieracium (Pilosella - 16), Scabiosa (Trochocephalus - 14), Serratula (Klasea - 13) and Leontodon (Scorzoneroides - 8). Taxonomic or nomenclatural problems of some taxa (Arum orientale, Colobium taraxacoides, Klasea, Leucanthemopsis alpina agg., Psyllium, Scorzoneroides, Tephroseris cantabrica) are discussed. Names omitted from the Index Kewensis and corrections of publication places are added (17 names). /// In dem Beitrag werden manche Arten aus dem vierten Band der "Flora Europaea" behandelt, bei denen sich die Klassifikation des Verfassers von der dort akzeptierten unterscheidet. 103 neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen sind vorgeschlagen, 95 fr Arten, 8 fr Unterarten. Die Mehrheit der neuen nomenklatorischen Kombinationen stellt das Ergebnis der Bestrebung nach einer natrlicheren Begrenzung der Gattungen vor; dies ussert sich in der Annahme eines engeren Gattungsbegriffes. Eine solche Auffassung der Gattungsklassifikationseinheit ist fr die Segreganten der folgenden Gattungen gebraucht: Centaurea (Acosta, Calcitrapa, Calcitrapoides, Colymbada, Cyanus, Jacea), Serratula (Klasea), Chrysanthemum (Leucanthemopsis), Hieracium (Pilosella), Plantago (Psyllium), Leontodon (Colobium, Scorzoneroides), Scabiosa (Trochocephalus), Anthemis (Cota), Petasites (Nardosmia), Lactuca (Scariola) und Senecio (Tephroseris). Bemerkungen ber die taxonomischen oder nomenklatorischen Probleme mancher Taxa stellen einen wichtigen Teil des Beitrages dar. Als ein Ergebnis des Studiums der tschechoslowakischen Vertreter der Gattung Arum fr das Bestimmungsbuch der tschechoslowakischen Flora ist der Text ber die taxonomische Problematik von Arum orientale s. 1. hier auch hinzugefgt. Mitteleuropische Pflanzen aus dem Umkreise von Arum orientale sind vom Verfasser als subsp. besseranum bewertet; sie unterscheiden sich von den typischen kaukasischen Pflanzen nur durch die Form und die Farbe der Kolbenscheide. Es gibt keine Grnde fr ihre Bewertung als eine selbstndige Art oder sogar als zwei oder mehrere Arten. Bei der Art Leontodon saxatilis Lam. (die zur Gattung Colobium gehrt) folgt der Verfasser der Auffassung von Finch et Sell und nimmt das Epitheton "taraxacoides" als richtig fr die Benennung dieser Art an. Die Gattung Klasea Cass., verschieden von Serratula hauptschlich durch ihre Chromosomengrundzahl, ist als taxonomisch berechtigt angenommen. In der Leucanthemopsis alpina agg. von Alpen und Westkarpathen werden drei Unterarten unterschieden, hauptschlich auf Grund der Blattmerkmale und teilweise ihrer Chromosomenzahlen. Im Text, der die Gattung Psyllium behandelt, wird das Problem der Namen der Gandoger'schen Mikrotaxa berhrt, dann die Frage des richtigen Namens fr Plantago indica L. oder P. arenaria Waldst. et Kit. gelst und zuletzt werden die nomenklatorischen Probleme der sdstlichen Unterart dieser Art diskutiert. Auschluss von Scorzoneroides Moench (gegrndet auf Leontodon autumnalis L.) vom Leontodon als eine selbstndige Gattung wird hier als richtig angenommen, speziel in Hinsicht auf die Unterschiede in den Haartypen und in den Chromosomengrundzahlen. Die frher vorgeschlagene Kombination Tephroseris pyrenaica war auf einem illegitimen Namen (Homonym) gegrndet und muss mit einer neuen Kombination T. cantabrica ersetzt werden. Manche Arten, die vom "Index Kewensis" unterlassen wurden so wie auch Verbesserungen der Namen der Autoren und der Zitationen der Verffentlichungsorten in diesem Werk sind in einem Anhang am Schlusse des Beitrages angefhrt. 
25130307|Leaf indumentum characteristics of 52 taxa of the genus Biscutella are examined by hand lens, stereo- and scanning electron microscopy. Hairs occur on all vegetative organs of all taxa except B. laevigata subsp. lucida which is completely glabrous and shining. Trichomes are simple unicellular and attenuate but are variable in structure, size and distribution both within and between species. Eight types of indumenta are recognized and these include hispid/hirsute, puberulent, tomentose, villous and velutinous. Each type varies in abundance from sparse to dense within the genus. In a few cases, indumentum is species-specific; for example, the whitish tomentose hair covering of B. frutescens distinguishes this species from the remaining species of the genus. In other taxonomically important species affinities are indicated. The occurrence of indumentum is discussed in relation to the various roles usually ascribed to this feature.
4181444|A total of 6 population samples of Myosotis stenophylla Knaf, a rare species showing great ecological disjunction in its distribution, were examined to clarify the present status of its karyological variation. In order to elucidate relationships between lowland tetraploid populations of M. stenophylla and diploid and tetraploid montane populations of M. alpestris F.W. Schmidt, four population samples of M. alpestris were also examined. The karyotypes of all populations of M. alpestris s.l. studied were highly asymmetrical and heterogeneous, being composed of metacentric, submetacentric, subtelocentric and satellited acrocentric chromosomes. The karyotype formula for haploid chromosome set was established:
4181490|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat & Moravec 1996), the present work brings together the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1993. The list comprises 218 syntaxa.
4181473|Examination of the embryo and endosperm development in triploid Chondrilla juncea L. (2n=15) from Poland confirmed the occurrence of autonomous apomixis in this species. Numerous degenerated embryos were formed which might be one of the factors which increased the observed seed sterility. In addition, twin embryos were often found at young developmental stages and in germinating seeds. Endosperm developed from polar nuclei or from the secondary nucleus. These processes have been proved by counting chromosome numbers in early developmental stages of the endosperm. The problems of the prevailing type of endosperm (nuclear or cellular), the correlation of embryo and endosperm development and the period of cellularization of nuclear endosperm have remained unsolved.
4180014| The author describes four new apomict species of Alchemilla L. ser. Hirsutae H. Lindb. They appear to be endemic in the Western Carpathians, growing there on some few mountain ranges, mostly in synanthropic habitats. Their known distribution areas seem to be  separate. Two numerical indices called the epicalyx index and the hypanthium index respectively are defined to characterise the proportion of an Alchemilla flower. Ranges of both indices are shown for each of the new species. 
4181060|Two new orchid species from the terrestrial genera Liparis and Pelexia are described, from field collections near Tiradentes, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The descriptions are based on floral analyses, comparison of herbarium specimens, and literature.
4179733| Auf Grund der taxonomisch-chorologischen Analyse des Pflanzenmaterials von Thlaspi jankae A. Kern. erwies sich als berechtigt, im Verwandtschaftskreis desselben eine neue Art, Thlaspi finitimum sp.n., zu unterscheiden. Die in den nordungarischen Hgellndern und Gebirgen wachsenden Pflanzen gehren zum T. jankae A. Kern., whrend das Vorkommen der neu aufgestellten Art T. finitimum auf das Gebiet der sdslowakischen Zobor-Berge (N von Nitra) und des Sdslowakischen Karstes beschrnkt ist. /// In the present paper a new species from South Slovakia (the Zobor Mountains, the South Slovakian Karst) is described-Thlaspi finitimum Dvokov-belonging to the Thlaspi jankae complex. T. finitimum, differs from T. jankae A. Kern., morphologically, by its chromosome number (2n = 28), and by its own area. This new species is a part of the polyploid series: T. jankae (2x; 2n = 14) - T. finitimum (4x; 2n = 28) - T. goesingense (8x; 2n = 56). Plants belonging to the species T. finitimum (which is endemic to Czechoslovakia) have so far been described as T. jankae; from the taxonomic revision of the T. jankae complex it follows that T. jankae A. Kern. does not grow in Czechoslovakia, it is limited only to the territory of Hungary, where the centre of its distribution is in the Hungarian Central Mountains in northern Hungary. 
25130309|The summer phytoplankton of ultraoligotrophic Lake Hubsugul, Mongolia, was studied in 1985-1989. 24 taxa, mostly belonging to the chlorococcal algae, are illustrated and their main diagnostic features discussed. Two new combinations, Monoraphidium pseudomirabile (Kor.) Hind. et Zagor, and Oocystella mongolia (Antip.) Hind. et Zagor, are created.
4179557| Das Scheidenbltgras (Coleanthus subtilis) ist eine der seltensten Pflanzenarten der europischen Flora. Das Gras besiedelt als Pionierart im Verein mit anderen niedrigwchsigen Therophyten vorbergehend wasserfreie Schlammbden der Teiche. Durch die Entdeckung von Coleanthus subtilis im Gebiet der Westerwlder Seenplatte (Westdeutschland) im Juli 1962 wurde ein neuer isolierter Wuchsort dieser bemerkenswerten Pflanzenart in Europa nachgewiesen. Dieser unerwartete Neufund gab Anstoss, dem sehr sporadischen Auftreten unserer unscheinbaren, winzigen Grasart in Europa nachzugehen. ber Funde in Deutsch-land wurde bereits an anderer Stelle berichtet (Woike 1968). Hier folgt eine Zusammen-fassung der bekanntgewordenen Beobachtungen in den Lndern Europas. /// The paper discusses the sporadic occurrence of the grass species Coleanthus subtilis (Tratt.) Seidl in Europe. This inconspicuous plant was first found on the territory what is now Czechoslovakia, in 1811. Later on, it was found also in Norway, Austria, Italy, France, Germany and USSR. It has been also reported from Asia (lower Amur region, West Siberia) and from North America (Columbia River). Coleanthus subtilis is a therophyte appearing suddenly on the muddy soil surface of drained fishponds or of river banks; records of its occurrence in these habitats are, however, rare. This fact is rather difficult to explain. In the plant sociological system, Coleanthus subtilis belongs to the alliance Nanocyperion, being a characteristic species of Eleocharetum ovatae (= E. soloniensis) - Tab. 1. The author has attempted to summarize the data on the occurrence and present distribution of Coleanthus subtilis in Europe. Up to now, the species seems to be relatively most frequent in Czechoslovakia, as is shwon in Hejn's paper, in this number of this journal. The localities of Coleanthus subtilis are indicated in Fig. 1, from which the disjunctive area of distribution in Europe is easy to recognize. The localities tend to be grouped around three centres: France (Brittany), Central Europe (Czechoslovakia and adjacent areas of Central Germany and Lower Austria) and Russia (S. of Lake Ladoga). Three localities at which occurrence of Coleanthus subtilis was reported in the last century or at the beginning of this century, have disappeared. They were in S. Norway near Oslo, N. Italy near Bolzano, and S. W. Germany near Mannheim. Another isolated locality was discovered in W. Germany (Westerwald) only in 1962. 
4179905|In this paper the process of establishing equilibrium in ecosystems is explored, and compared to the process of transformation. This process changes the state of organisms from absent to present, and the reverse, and if functioning randomly on very large numbers of individuals, results in biological equilibrium which can be expressed by the ratio (e - x): 1, with x = 1 at Natural Biological Equilibrium (NBE). A model of ecosystems shows that four basic factors are operative in ecosystems: the constraint, or habitat-type; the regulator, or carrying capacity of the substrate; the input, or organisms; and the operator, death. The Theory of Biological Equilibrium (TBE) proposed, postulates that Natural Biological Equilibrium is reached when the individuals in an ecosystem are in dynamic balance with the carrying capacity of the substrate of the ecosystem. The TBE provides the theoretical basis for the Canonical Hypothesis, which postulates that the parameters in eco- systems are fixed, and can be computed from the number of species in the system. The TBE is in agreement with many well-known ecological phenomena, provides the basis for several hypotheses, and forces the rejection of some traditional hypotheses, viz., the hypothesis of competition as a factor in ecosystems.
4180245|The estimation of underground standing crop of individual plant species in a natural grassland ecosystem without direct measurement of screened plant material is described. A mathematical formulation technique has been designed by correlating the variables fresh weight, dry weight, ash weight and also nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, sodium, calcium, sulphur and magnesium content of the plant species.
4181100| Chromosome numbers compared with as yet published data are given for the following 12 Phanerogams (both native species and aliens) from Czechoslovakia: Ambrosia trifida L., Cardamine chelidonia L., Daphne cneorum L., Epipactis albensis Novkov et Rydlo, Linum flavum L. subsp. flavum, Lunaria rediviva L., Nepeta grandiflora M. Bieb., Reseda luteola L., Thlaspi montanum L., Tithymalus salicifolius (Host) Klotzsch et Garcke, Tithymalus virgultosus (Klokov) Holub and Verbascum speciosum Schrad. subsp. speciosum. The chromosome number 2n = 40 is presented for the first time in autogamous Epipactis albensis Novkov et Rydlo. New chromosome numbers were found in Cardamine chelidonia L. (2n = 32) and in Tithymalus salicifolius (Host) Klotzch et Garcke (2n = 40). Known but less frequent cytotypes are reported in Linum flavum L. subsp. flavum (2n = 28) and in Verbascum speciosum Schrad. subsp. speciosum (2n = 30). 
4181273|The comparison of published data on clonal morphology of closely related species and/or data on comparative morphology of larger groups of related species showed that most of the variation observed is more related to history than to putative selection pressures within present plant communities. Historical factors include both phylogeny and climatic conditions experienced in the past. Inheritance of clonal growth traits is variable even within one genus and is hard to predict namely in polyploid groups. Community parameters and architectural traits may be closely related in the case of hybrid speciation when the divergence of newly formed taxa may be very rapid and easily influenced by short term community parameters; however there are very few well documented examples.
4180472| In the protected landscape region of Jizersk hory Mts., the following tall-herb communities of the suballiance Filipendulenion (all. Calthion) were ascertained and studied: Lysimachio vulgari-Filipenduletum Bal.-Tul. 1978, Valeriano officinali-Filipenduletum Siss. in Westhoff et al. 1946, Chaerophyllo hirsuti-Filipenduletum Niemann, Heinrich et Hilbig 1973, Cirsio heterophylli-Filipenduletum Neuhusl et Neuhuslov-Novotn 1975, and Trollio altissimi-Filipenduletum Bal.-Tul. in Rybnek et al. 1984. Close relationships were found between the communities composition and the environmental factors. Of these, the following were studied: Altitude, substrate, climate, inclination and axposition, moisture, humus content and quality, pH, content of exchangeable H
4180474|The paper gives the chromosome number for 50 species of the Mongolian flora. Some of the counts appear to be the first findings for the species. They are: Draba eriopoda Turcz. ex Ledeb. 2n = 16, Lychnis sibirica L. 2n = 24, Papaver pseudocanescens M. Popov 2n = 42, Thymus baicalensis Serg. 2n = 28 and Viola gmeliniana Schultes 2n = 24.
4179505|An experiment, in which fertilizer was used for accelerating growth for studies on production processes, is described. In this Australian heathland-a community common on soils very deficient in phosphorus and other nutrients-responses to fertilizer consisted in increases in leaf area index and standing biomass above ground. Fertilizer had no effect on growth below ground. These results were derived in the second growing season after treatment; no statistically significant effect could be shown in the non-growing periods up to two years after treatment. Discussion is centred on the limitations to be expected of such natural communities used as experimental material on which fertilizer has been imposed as a major treatment.
4180560|Daily course of heat balance components (sensible heat, latent heat of evaporation and ground heat fluxes) and evapotranspiration were computed from meterological data recorded in a sedge-grass marsh in South Bohemia, Czechoslovakia. Bowen-ratio method and tank measurements were used, and several comparisons made with parallel aerodynamic measurements. Two simplified empirical formulae for calculating evapotranspiration are suggested: one based on net radiation, the other based on net radiation and on the difference between the mean relative air humidities at the upper and lower levels of the boundary layer above the stand. The seasonal courses and totals of heat-balance components and evapotranspiration obtained in three years (1977 to 1979) are compared and discussed.
4180214|Some soil physical properties and annual soil moisture dynamics are studied on some abandoned fields of the Bohemian Karst differing in age to find some regular changes during succession.
4179855| Over a period of several years, the ecology of germination of the seeds of Alliaria petiolata (M. Bieb.) Cavara et Grande has been studied, both in the laboratory and on an experimental plot at Prhonice. Using 11 seed samples collected in various regions of Czechoslovakia, experiments have shown that seeds of this species pass through a dormancy stage which is caused by physiological features of the embryo. Dormancy was interrupted in cold stratification at temperatures between +1 and +6 C. Germination started on between 60th and 97th day after the beginning of stratification, while, the majority of seeds germinated after 75 to 90 days. /// Die Keimungskologie von Alliaria petiolata wurde einige Jahre lang im Laboratorium und auf einer Versuchsparzelle in Prhonice untersucht. Bei Samen wurde der Einfluss folgender Faktoren verfolgt: der Verletzung des Perisperms, der die Keimung hemmende Stoffe (die Samen wurden in Wasser und Alkohol ausgelaugt), das Wrmeschocks, der trockenen Lagerung und der verschiedenen Temperaturen einschliesslich der Temperaturen unter Gefrierpunkt, der wechselnden Temperatur und der Temperaturen ber 30 C. Die Unterbrechung der Dormanz wurde erst bei jenen Samen erzielt, die bei Temperaturen von +1  bis +6 C, d. h. bei Varianten
4180316| The present study deals with five genera of hepatics in Africa, Isotachis Mitt., Anastrophyllum (Spruce) Steph., Tritomaria Schiffn. ex Loeske, Gymnocoleopsis (Schust.) Schust. and Lophozia (Dum.) Dum. All African populations of the genus Isotachis Mitt. are considered to be one species, I. aubertii (Schwaegr.) Mitt. Four species of Anastrophyllum (Spruce) Steph. (s.l.), A. auritum (Lehm.) Steph., A. piligerum (Nees) Spruce, A. subcomplicatum (Lehm. et Lindenb.) Steph. and A. minutum (Schreb.) Schust., and two species of Tritomaria Schiffn. ex Loeske, T. camerunensis S. Arnell and T. exsecta (Schrad.) Schiffn. ex Loeske occur in Africa. Gymnocoleopsis multiflora (Steph.) Schust. represents a genus and species hitherto unreported for the African flora. Finally, five Lophozia (Dum.) Dum. species, L. argentina (Steph.) Schust., L. capensis S. Arnell, L. decolorans (Limpr.) Steph., L. hedbergii S. Arnell and L. tristaniana (S. Arnell) Va, are reported from central and southern Africa; two of these (L. argentina (Steph.) Schust. and L. decolorans (Limpr.) Steph.) represent the first reports from Africa. 
4179747| In the southern parts of Scandinavia there occur two species of the Vicia cracca L. complex: Vicia cracca L., represented by the chromosome race 2n = 28, and V. oreophila ertov. Whereas V. oreophila predominantly inhabits habitats of primary character, especially near the coast, the tetraploid race of V. cracca, which is the commonest in other parts of area, occurs predominantly on sites of secondary character, such as the borders of paths, roads, meadows and bushy places. The two species differ in several characters. /// Die Vicia cracca L.-Gruppe ist in den sdlichen Teilen Skandinaviens durch zwei Arten V. cracca und V. oreophila, vertreten. Vicia cracca ist nach den bisher bekannten Angaben und nach den in der Gegenwart nachgeprften Populationen nur durch die Rasse mit der Chromosomenzahl 2n = 28 vertreten. Diese Rasse stellt eine phylogenetisch jngere, mehr abgeleitete Formengruppe der Art V. cracca dar. Sie ist sehr vernderlich und weist eine sehr breite kologische Amplitude auf. Sie besiedelt hufig auch sekundre Standorte. Vicia oreophila ist eine evolutionsaltertmliche ursprnglichere Art dieser Gruppe. Sie ist weniger vernderlich und hat eine engere kologische Amplitude. Sie kommt vorwiegend auf Standorten primren Charakters, meist im Kstenland, vor. Beide Arten sind in Sdskandinavien zerstreut bis stellenweise hufig verbreitet und dringen bis weit nordwrts vor. 
4180520|The litter-bag method was used to expose the native litter in five stands of three wetland communities (four of them were in a sedge-and-grass marsh and one was a willow carr) with increasing soil water content (a hydrosere) for 15 months in 1978 and 1979. The litter-mass changes, rates of litter decomposition, ash, N, P, K, Na and Ca contents were determined and expressed in terms of concentration and % remaining of initial amount of the respective element. Two main factors were distinguished that controlled the above characteristics: the overlying biomass effect that was most obvious at the end of August 1978, and the strong flood effect of spring 1979. The data on the living and dead plant biomass from all marsh sites and some data on climatic and hydrological conditions are also included.
4180417| On the basis of taxonomic and nomenclatural revisions of various plant groups 37 new nomenclatural combinations are proposed mostly for European phanerogamous taxa (21 for species, 14 for subspecies, 2 for hybrids.) Medicula Medicus, Pseudofumaria Medicus and Thlasidia Rafin. are accepted as taxonomically justified genera and correct generic names. Dactylorhiza longebracteata (F. W. Schmidt) Holub is proposed instead of D. fuchsii (Druce) So, and Hylotelephium triphyllum (Haworth) Holub instead of H. purpureum (L.) Holub. 
4179420| Thesium hispanicum is a newly described species, stenoendemic for the area of the mountains Picos de Europa in north Spain. It is the westernmost representative of the series Micrantha, distributed in several species from beyond Transcaucasian and Turkish Kurdistan over the whole northern portion of the Mediterranean. /// Zu den bisher aus Spanien bekannten Arten der Gattung Thesium, d. i. T. alpinum, T. pyrenaicum, T. divaricatum, T. humifusum und T. humile kommt eine weitere Art, das neu beschriebene T. hispanicum hinzu. Diese ist nach den von D. W. Dresser im Gebirge Picos de Europa in Nordspanien gesammelten Pflanzen beschrieben. Es handelt sich um eine Art der Series Micrantha, in der sie den westlichsten Vertreter darstellt. Diese neue Art scheint mit der dinarisch-hellenisch-apenninischen Art T. parnassi verwandt zu sein. Sie unterscheidet sich von der letzteren besonders durch auffallend lngere und zahlreichere Auslufer und im juvenilem Stadium durch einen zusammengezogenen und sichtlich noch bltenrmeren Bltenstand. Ihre Frchte sind vorlufig nicht bekannt. Der Autor ist der Ansicht, dass es sich der morphologischen Verschiedenheit und der Lage des Areals nach zu schliessen um eine Art handelt, die nach einem stark disjunktiven Zerfall der Series Micrantha nach dem Unter-bis Ober-Miozn durch Isolation entstand. 
4179571| Aus der nrdlichen Mongolei wurden 5 neue Arten und ein Bastard der Gattung Potentilla beschrieben. Die neuen Taxa gehren zu den Sektionen Tanacetifoliae (P. acervata, P. chenteica), Multifidae (P. chalchorum, P. chionea) und Niveae (P. coriacea, P.  drymeja). Zwei Arten bergreifen in ihrer Verbreitung auch ins angrenzende Sdsibirien (eine dieser beiden Arten sogar bis in die Ostmandschurei). /// In the present paper several new species of the genus Potentilla are described: P. acervata sp. n. is related to P. viscosa Donn and P. tanacetifolia Willd. et Schlecht. and is distributed in northern Mongolia and in the territory between the Lake Baikal and Lake Hanka. P. chenteica sp. n. is morphologically close to P. acervata Sojk, and its occurrence is known only from the Mongolian mountain range Khentei. The Habitus of P. chalchorum sp. n. rather suggests that of P. conferta Bunge; the distribution area of P. chalchorum covers northern Mongolia and the central part of South Siberia. P. chionea sp. n. is a mountain species of hybridogeneous origin (P. crebridens Juz.  P. sericea L.); it was found in the environments of the Lake Khubsugul. P. coriacea sp. n. occupies a rather isolated position within the Niveae group, owing to the tough consistency of the leaflets, and at present is known from only one locality in northern Mongolia. The description of the hybrid P. arenosa (Turcz.) Juz.  P. crebridens Juz. (P.  drymeja hybr. n.) is also given here. In the supplement of the paper a finding of P.* orientalis Juz. in Mongolia is communicated and a new nomenclatorical combination P. bifurca L. subsp. orientalis (Juz.) Sojk is proposed. 
4180774| The position of the Juglandaceae within the Hamamelididae is critically analysed and discussed. The Juglandales should be given an intermediate position between Hamamelidanae and Rosanae (as Juglandanae) within the Rosidae. /// Verschiedene Merkmalsebenen bilden die Basis fr eine erneute kritische Analyse und Diskussion der Position der Juglandaceae im aktuellen System. Einerseits kann man die Familie aufgrund verschiedener isolierter Merkmale berhaupt keiner Sippe vorbehaltlos zuordnen; andererseits gibt es Merkmalsbereinstimmungen sowohl mit Hamamelididae als auch mit Rosidae. Die Auffassung, dass die 3 Sippen aus gemeinsamen Vorfahren hervorgegangen sind, die wir als Ur-Rosidae bezeichnen, weist den Juglandaceae eine intermedire Position zwischen den als berordnungen innerhalb der Unterklasse der Rosidae gewerteten Rosanae und Hamamelidanae zu (Abb. 2). 
4180134|The paper deals with dispersal and domestication of Chenopodium pumilio R. Br. in Czechoslovakia. Tabulated habitats point out the predominant dispersal of this species by various kinds of hemerochory, while autochory, chamaechory, endochory and epichory are other possible means of dispersal. Successfull domestication of Chenopodium pumilio is facilitated by abundance of viable fruits possessing an efficient dormancy mechanism that prevents them germinating in adverse seasons of the year. Naturalization of this species is further supported by prolonged viability of the fruits, and by favourable periodicity of dissemination.
4180043|Karyotypes of Tragopogon orientalis L. subsp. orientalis, T. orientalis L. subsp. leiocarpos (Sauter) Trnka, T. pratensis L., T. minor Miller, T. dubius Scop. subsp. dubius and T. dubius Scop. subsp. major (Jacq.) Vollmann were studied. The occurrence in Slovakia of T. pratensis was karyologically proved.
4179567| Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit dem Verlauf der oberen Wald- und Baumgrenze im Gebirge Hrub Jesenk (Hohes Gesenke), die hier von der Fichte gebildet wird. Es wurden die wichtigsten, die Grenze beeinflussenden Faktoren analysiert. Die Frage der Ursprnglichkeit der Bestnde an der Wald- und Baumgrenze wurde auf Grund von phytometrischen und morphologischen Beobachtungen festgestellt (Abnahme der Baumhhe, Lnge der Zuwchse, Beschdigung der Fichte durch Wind und Eis, Zahl, Lnge und Ausdauern der Nadeln, Verjngung der Fichte). Die Baumgrenze erwies sich fr eine Beurteilung der potentielen Wald-grenze als geeignet. /// In this work we discuss the position of the upper timber line and the upper forest line in Hrub Jesenk Mountains. For determining the fundamental conception, the definition for the alpine timber and forest line of Jenk et Lokvenc (1962) was used. These authors define forest by a minimal tree height of 5 m, minimal area of 100 m
4181263|A stochastic, spatially explicit simulation model for clonal growth is presented which relates growth patterns to the pattern of resource availability in the environment in both space and time. The effects of two simple growth rules were examined which affect the length of spacers depending on the local environmental conditions. According to one of the rules, shorter spacers were developed in resource-rich microsites than in resource-poor microsites (growth rule G-). If the other rule acted, the spacers were lengthened in resource-rich sites (growth rule G+). The neutral reference, G0, represented a plant of rigid growth form. A wide range of habitat types was used in the tests and characterized by an information theory model. It was found that the effectiveness of resource capture in most habitat types can be explained by spatio-temporal predictability of the environment, measured on the scale of spacer length. Shortening the spacers in resource-rich microsites, as hypothesized by "foraging theory", reduced the proportion of misplaced ramets. Lengthening the spacers never reduced this proportion. However, the degree of intraclonal competition was significantly reduced by both shortening and lengthening the spacers in response to site quality. There were certain types of environment where plastic modification of spacers had no effect on the efficiency of resource capture when compared to the reference random (non-environment-dependent) search pattern. Such habitats can be identified exactly on the basis of the information content of habitat pattern, measured here by spatio-temporal predictability. This study emphasizes that a wide range of environmental types should be taken into consideration when examining the adaptive nature of a certain growth pattern. Generalizing from experimental results gained in temporally constant environments may strongly bias our view on morphological adaptation.
4179913| Micarea umbrosa Vzda et V. Wirth sp. n., eine zweimal unabhngig in Europa entdeckte neue Art wird beschrieben. Sie ist nahe verwandt mit Biatora bauschiana Krb., die als Micarea bauschiana (Krb.) V. Wirth et Vzda neu kombiniert wird. Ein vorlufiger Bestimmungsschlssel und eine bersicht der besser bekannten europischen Micarea-Arten werden angefhrt. /// Micarea umbrosa Vzda et V. Wirth sp. n., independently found by both the authors in Europe is described. It is closely related to Micarea bauschiana (Krb.) V. Wirth et Vzda comb. n. (= Biatora bauschiana Krb.). A key (in latin) to the better known European species of the genus Micarea is presented; the following new combinations are necessary: Micarea bacidiella (Vain.) Vzda (= Lecidea denigrata var. bacidiella Vain.), M. hemipoliella (Nyl.) Vzda (= Lecidea hemipoliella Nyl.), M. leprosula (Th. Fr.) Vzda (= Blimbia milliaria * leprosula Th. Fr.), M. minuscula (Anzi) Vzda (= Bacidia minuscula Anzi), M. polioides (Nyl.) Vzda (= Lecidea polioides Nyl.), M. subleprosula (Vzda) Vzda (= Bacidia subleprosula Vzda) and M. sylvicola (Flot.) Vzda et V. Wirth (Lecidea sylvicola Flot.). 
4179782| An outline of the various approaches to the study of vegetation is given in historical perspective. Emphasis is laid on the Zrich-Montpellier method which has benefited from the rise of statistical methods in vegetation science. It is argued that the Zrich-Montpellier approach represents a scientifically sound, versatile and efficient classification method in vegetation science. 
4180261|Some characteristics of plant water dynamics of the Bohemian Karst, especially transpiration of some dominants and external factors influencing it and the ability to withstand extreme dry conditions are discussed, to find regular changes in plant water dynamics during succession.
4180771| Based on relevs and observations from the GDR, Czechoslovakia, Jugoslavia and USSR and on the literature, the spreading and phytosociology of Ailanthus altissima in the synanthropic area, connections between area-development, phytosociological pattern, and the hemerobic indicator value are elaborated. /// Verbreitung, Soziologie sowie Zusammenhnge zwischen Arealentwicklung, soziologischer Bindung und Hemerobiezeigerwert von Ailanthus altissima im synanthropen Areal werden auf der Grundlage von Vegetationsaufnahmen und Beobachtungen aus der DDR, SSR, Jugoslawien, der UdSSR sowie der Literatur dargestellt. Es zeigte sich, dass A. altissima in urbanen kosystemen auf Grund der dort herrschenden klimatischen und edaphischen Bedingungen bis in die temperate Florenzone vordringen kann. Dabei scheint zur spontanen Verbreitung des Baumes eine Jahresdurchschnittstemperatur von mindestens 8,5C erforderlich zu sein. Eine Rasterkartierung der Art in 2 Stdten der DDR (Halle, Leipzig) ergab eine Bindung an die Stadtzentren bzw. Industriegelnde. Die Amplitude der soziologischen Bindung erweitert sich von der nrdlichen Arealgrenze (temperate Florenzone) zum Zentrum der synanthropen Verbreitung submeridionale Florenzone) stetig; damit nimmt auch die Hemerobiestufenamplitude zu. 
4180484|Deschampsia austrobohemica from the South Bohemia is described. Besides the morphological characters the ecological data are given.
4180320| Additional C-14 dates to the pollen diagrams from the Zbudovsk blata marshes (see Rybnkov, Rybnek et Jankovsk 1975) are published. The dates support the previous hypothesis of a stratigraphic hiatus for the middle Holocene era. 
4180061|Three genera of lignicolous Hyphomycetes Septonema Corda, Hormiactella Saac. and Lylea Morgan-Jones are discussed. Illustrations and determination keys are provided. Five species of Septonema - S. fasciculare (Corda) Hughes, S. leptaleum (Ellis & Harkn.) Hughes, S. pinicola Hol.-Jech., S. secedens Corda and S. laricinum Hol.-Jech. - and two species of Hormiactella - H. fusca (Preuss) Sacc. and H. asetosa Hol.-Jech. - have been found in Czechoslovakia. A new species S. pseudobinum Hol.-Jech. is described from Romania. Septonema tetracoilum (Corda) Hughes is accommodated in the genus Lylea Morgan-Jones.
4181012|Various species of charophytes are able rapidly to colonise disturbed or cleaned shallow water bodies. This fact may be explained by the long-lasting viability of charophyte oospores, their easy dispersal and, probably, enhanced germination after passage through digestive tracts of waterfowl. Vegetative parts of Charophytes are sometimes resistant to herbicide treatment.
4179720|Two new closely related methods for the determination of the minimal area of phytocenoses are proposed. These methods check and complete each other and consist in determination of the rooted frequency of species in a set of successively enlarged sample plots and calculation of either (1) the mean floristic similarity or of (2) the corrected homogeneity-coefficient for each set of frequency plots of a certain size. The plotting of the above values against the plot size shows that both the mean floristic similarity and the homogeneity-coefficient stop rising at a certain size of the plot, which corresponds to the minimal area. Further enlargement of the frequency plots causes dropping or oscillation of these indices around a certain value.
4181466|The embryology of diploid and polyploid Nigritella species is described. The development of the adventitious embryos of the polyploids in relation to the sexual embryos of the diploids has been given special consideration. Partial sexuality in the apomictic N. nigra has been proven for the first time by chromosome counts in proembryos after pollination of a tetraploid plant with pollen from a diploid species.
4181269| Three clonal rhizomatous graminoids (Carex gracilis, C. vesicaria and Calamagrostis canescens), co-dominants of Central European marshlands, were examined for their response to waterlogging. A three-year growth study was carried with treatments where the water level was (a) below, (b) at, and (c) above the soil surface to assess the changes in allocation of plant biomass and modular structure. In waterlogged plants total biomass production was lower. The relatively greater shoot systems of waterlogged plants were characterized by the production of a greater number of tiller modules (of the order of 20%). Roots were the most supressed organs both in sedges and C. canescens. Higher leaf area ratios and specific leaf areas in stressed plants indicate the relative enlargement of photosynthetic structures where stems form a significant component of the shoot (LWR < 0.5 as in Calamagrostis) in unstressed conditions; above-ground biomass in stressed plants decreased. But where leaves form a major part of the shoot (LWR > 0.5 as in sedges) then above-ground biomass and rhizomes in stressed plants increased and leaf area index became higher. Variation of the mean module biomass in particular species was also associated with the LWR characteristics: modules of Carex gracilis and C. vesicaria were stable in biomass in all the treatments and reached 0.97  0.04 g and 0.44  0.03 g, respectively; in Calamagrostis the biomass of tillers varied. The number of modules increased in all species under waterlogging regardless of the architectural and reallocation differences between species. The increase in clonal modules is regarded as a general adaptive response to the stress of waterlogging. 
4181390| Up-to-date results of taxonomic and phytogeographic studies of Oenothera subsect. Oenothera in the eastern part of the Czech Republic (Moravia and Silesia) are presented. A new hybridogenous species, Oe. moravica Jehlk et Rostaski (= Oe. fallax  Oe. victorini), is described from S Moravia. Several taxa and hybrids are reported for the first time for the Czech Republic: Oe. victorini Gates et Catcheside (= Oe. rostanskii Jehlk), Oe. wienii Renner ex Rostaski, Oe. acutifolia  Oe. victorini. Other taxa are recorded from the eastern part of the Czech Republic for the first time: Oe. acutifolia Rostaski, Oe. hoelscheri Renner ex Rostaski, Oe. parviflora L., Oe. subterminalis Gates. The taxonomy of Oe. pycnocarpa Atkinson et Bartlett is discussed. A survey of species and hybrids of Oenothera subsect. Oenothera in the Czech Republic is added. 
4181421|Reed rhizomes from four habitats differing in soil nitrogen availability were collected and analyzed for carbohydrate content during one year. Rhizomes collected from sediments where nitrate was the prevailing form of available nitrogen accumulated predominantly starch. On the other hand, rhizomes buried in sediments rich in ammonium contained predominantly sucrose. These observations together with the fact that ammonium stimulates the activity of enzymes involved in degradation of starch suggest that ammonium affects starch storage by inducing conversion of starch into sucrose. During spring when sprouting takes place, the rates of sucrose or starch mobilization differed remarkably, the sucrose in rhizomes buried in ammonium-rich sediments being depleted much faster than the starch in rhizomes at ammonium-poor habitats. The consequent reduction of total carbohydrate content in rhizomes at ammonium-rich habitats places the plants in a vulnerable situation. Eutrophication and reed decline are postulated to be events causally related via toxicity of ammonium, of which considerable amounts are microbiologically released from decaying organic matter in reed beds under excessive nutrient supply.
4179990| Im vorliegenden Beitrag werden Resultate syntaxonomisch-synkologischer Forschungen des Carici remotae-Fraxinetum Koch ex Faber 1936 in den Tschechischen Lndern vorgelegt. Diese Assoziation ist an Gleybden quelliger Lagen gebunden, meistens in Hhen zwischen ca. (250) 300 und 600 m . NN. Im untersuchten Gebiet wurde die Assoziation in vier Subassoziationen gegliedert. Das Carici remotae-Fraxinetum caricetosum pendulae Tx. 1937 bestockt sehr wasserreiche bis versumpfte Nassgleye quelliger Hnge oder Hangsohlen mit schnell fliessendem Wasser. Das Carici rem.-Fraxinetum chrysosplenietosum Tx. 1937 ist an frische bis bergehend versumpfte Nassgleye, typische Gleye bzw. Anmoorgleye von Gelndesenkungen mit langsam fliessendem, quelligem Wasser gebunden. Das Carici rem.-Fraxinetum typicum Knapp (1944) 1948 kommt auf typischen Gleyen, seltener Nassgleyen an Bachufern vor. Das Carici rem.-Fraxinetum quercetosum Mikyka 1956 wurde auf frischen bis sehr wasserreichen Nassgleyen quelliger Stellen im Kontakt mit Eichen-Hainbuchenwldern festgestellt. /// This paper discusses the results of phytocoenological and ecological research into Carici remotae-Fraxinetum Koch ex Faber 1936 in the Czech Lands. This association represents a typical forest community of swampy sites and flushes; it occurs on gley soils of terrain depressions, slopes or riversides at an altitude (250) 300-600 m. The dominant species of the tree layer are Fraxinus excelsior or Alnus glutinosa; the herb layer is characterised by the occurrence of Carex remota, Veronica montana, Poa remota, locally also Dryopteris spinulosa, Rumex sanguineus, Circaea intermedia, Glyceria nemoralis or G. plicata (character and differential species of the association). In the area studied four subassociations can be distinguished: 1. Carici remotae-Fraxinetum caricetosum pendulae Tx. 1937 (differential species: Carex pendula, Equisetum telmateia) represents the most hygrophilous form of the association, confined to wet to water-logged nassgleys, with high and rapidly moving groundwater. The community occurs on slopes and at their foot. 2. Carici remotae-Fraxinetum chrysosplenietosum (differential species: Chrysosplenium alternifolium, Ch. oppositifolium, locally also Cardamine amara and Stellaria nemorum) is a typical community of fresh to temporarily water-logged nassgleys, anmoorgleys or typical gleys poor in nutrients. It is confined to terrain depressions with slowly running water. 3. Carici remotae-Fraxinetum typicum Knapp (1944) 1948 (lacking differential species) occurs on moist to wet typical gleys, or nassgleys on riversides with rapidly running water. 4. Carici remotae-Fraxinetum quercetosum Mikyka 1956 (differential species: Quercus petraea, Bromus benekenii, Galium silvaticum and Aconitum variegatum) was studied at altitudes from 250 to 260 m, on fresh to moist gley soils of slope flushes in contact with stands of the alliance Carpinion. The geographical distribution, comparison with analogous European forest communities as well as the economic importance of Carici remotae-Fraxinetum are briefly discussed. 
4179623| Four new taxa in the variable species Lotus corniculatus L. has been described: var. alandicus Chrtkov-ertov, var. norvegicus Chrtkov-ertov, var. fallax Chrtkov-ertov and var. posoniensis Chrtkov-ertov. 
4180393|The Glinus lotoides L. is a amphi-stomatal, amphitrichomic and xeromorphic plant. The stomata are anomocytic and their distribution is of potato type. The stellate hairs are present all over the plant. The configurations of epidermal cells in the leaves are straight and highly sinuous on upper and lower surfaces respectively. The ratio of stomatal indexes between the two surfaces of the leaves is uniform, hence may be used for taxonomic studies.
4180524|The present study provides a survey of the variability, distribution, ecology and other features of Taraxacum (sect. Spectabilia) nordstedtii Dahlst. in central Europe. Chromosome counts (hexaploid chromosome number - 2n = 48 - has been confirmed) of the species are also given. A lectotype has been chosen of the syntypes. It is pointed out that T. nordstedtii is likely to occur in Austria, Bavaria and Poland.
4180213| Im Gebiet der Stadt Brno, und zwar in Malomice und Obany (Rangiergterbahnhof) gefundene zwei wenig bekante Ruderalgesellschaften Chaenarrhino-Chenopodietum botryos Sukopp 1971 und Plantaginetum indicae Philippi 1971, wurden bearbeitet. Im beiderseitigen Vergleich entspricht die Struktur der angefhrten Znosen den von Sukopp (1971) aus West-Berlin und Philippi (1971) von Karlsruhe verffentlichten Assoziationsaufnahmen. /// The occurrence and phytocoenological characteristics of less known ruderal plant communities of the Chaenarrhino-Chenopodietum botryos Sukopp 1971 and the Plantaginetum indicae Philippi 1971, found in the area of the marshalling yards in Brno-Malomice and Obany, are given. In evaluating the two associations, references in literature were taken into consideration and their authors were consulted by post. The plant communities in the Federal Republic of Germany and in West-Berlin were found to be richer in species, but the pattern of species characterizing the physiognomy of the associations, and their ecological demands roughly correspond to those in Czechoslovakia. 
4179440| Im Artikel wird die ursprngliche Gattungsdiagnose der Gyalidea Lett. um die Merkmale der Pilzkomponente ergnzt. Die angenommenen verwandtschaftlichen Beziehungen der Gyalidea zu der Familie Asterothyriaceae werden diskutiert. Alle bisher festgestellten Arten mit bersichten der revidierten Proben werden kurz beschrieben. Neue Taxa und Kombinationen: Gyalidea dodgei spec. n., G. epiphylla spec. n., G. mayaguezensis spec. n., G. portoricensis spec. n., G. fritzei (Stein) comb. n., G. fritzei var. rivularis (Eitn.) comb. n., G. hyalinescens (Nyl.) comb. n., G. lecideopsis var. convarians (Nyl.) comb. n., G. lecideopsis var. stigmatoides (Nyl.) comb. n., G. mexicana (B. de Lesd.) comb. n. und G. subscutellaris (Vzda) comb. n. /// A l'origine le genre Gyalidea Lettau 1937 n'avait t dfini que comme un genre parallle au genre Gyalecta Ach, aux algues symbiotiques du type Cystococcus ( la place de Trentepohlia, spcifique des Gyalecta). Or, d'aprs les rsultats de nos recherches, la plupart des Gyalidea prsentent en outre, en ce qui concerne les fructifications du champignon, une structure extrmement concordante; en plus cette structure, dans ses trats principaux, est essentiellement diffrente de celle qu'on observe tant chez les Gyalecta typiques que chez les autres Gyalectaces s. str. Pour cette raison, on a ajout, dans ce travail,  la diagnose originelle les caractres du constituant fongique. Toutes les espces connues jusqu'ici (13 dont 4 nouvelles pour la Science) sont brivement dcrites et un aperu des chantillons examins est ajout. Les lieus de parent possibles des Gyalidea avec les Asterothyriaces sont discuts. 
4179836| Die Xerothermrasengesellschaften auf tertiren vulkanischen Gesteinen im Ostteil des Gebirges esk stedoho (Bhmisches Mittelgebirge) wurden analysiert und nach der Zrich-Montpellier-Methode klassifiziert. Im Einklang mit der bisherigen Entwicklung der phytoznologischen Nomenklatur-Regeln ist fr jedes Syntaxon der korrekte Name nach dem Priorittsprinzip festgelegt. Fnf Assoziationen gehren in das Alysso-Festucion pallentis Moravec 1967 und drei in das Festucion valesiacae Klika 1931 (Klasse Festuco-Brometea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943, Ordnung Festucetalia valesiacae Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943). Das Festuco valesiacae-Stipetum capillatae Sillinger 1931 wurde aus Bhmen noch nicht angegeben und fr das Asperulo glaucae-Festucetum duriusculae Preis in Klika 1939 und Melico transsilvanicae-Sempervivetum soboliferi Preis in Klika 1939, die bisher aus synthetischen Tabellen bekannt waren, sind die ersten Vegetationsaufnahmen angefhrt. Weiter werden publiziert: Alysso saxatilis-Festucetum duriusculae Klika ex eovsk 1949, Allio montani-Sedetum albi Klika 1939, Alysso montani-Potentilletum arenariae Preis 1939, Carici humilis-Festucetum sulcatae Klika 1951 und Erysimo crepidifolii-Festucetum valesiacae Klika 1933. Jede Assoziation ist mit Vegetationsaufnahmen und der Synonymik belegt und ihre charakteristische Artenkombination, Artenzusammensetzung und Struktur, ihre syngenetischen und topographischen Beziehungen werden beschrieben und ein Vergleich mit der Literatur ist durchgefhrt. /// Xerothermic herbaceous vegetation on volcanic rocks of the eastern part of the esk Stedoho Hills, belongs to the class Festuco-Brometea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943. The southern, southwestern and southeastern slopes bear plant communities of the order Festucetalia valesiacae Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943, within which two alliances and eight associations have been distinguished. The alliance Alysso-Festucion pallentis Moravec 1967 is represented by species-rich petricolous communities growing in shallow A - C soils developed on ledges and in crevices formed by weathering or disintegration of the parent rock, or spread over very steep slopes affected by heavy soil erosion. Plant communities of this alliance belong to the following five associations: 1. Alysso saxatilis-Festucetum duriusculae Klika ex eovsk 1949 (community of steep rock faces in warm regions and along the river valleys); 2. Asperulo glaucae-Festucetum duriusculae Preis in Klika 1939 (open community covering rock ledges and plateaux of basalt hills); 3. Allio montani-Sedetum albi Klika 1939 (initial petricolous community preparing suitable conditions for further succession of more advanced communities of the alliance Alysso-Festucion pallentis and Festucion valesiacae); 4. Melico transsilvanicae-Sempervivetum soboliferi Preis in Klika 1939 (community of grasses, succulent plants, ferns, and therophytes inhabiting continuous rock faces and plateaux); 5. Alysso montani-Potentilletum arenariae Preis 1939 (community developed in a typical form over mild slopes of basic rocks; wide rock and slightly inclined ledges). The alliance Festucion valesiacae Klika 1931 is represented by species-rich herbaceous communities of rocky slopes, distributed mainly over nutrient-rich and more developed A - C soil. Plant communities of this alliance belong to three associations: 1. Carici humilis-Festucetum sulcatae Klika 1951 (communities spread over slopes with soil of variable depth and without dramatic fluctuations of soil moisture in the course of the growing season); 2. Erysimo crepidifolii-Festucetum valesiacae Klika 1933 (open community inhabiting rocky biotopes with shallow but continuous A - C soil); 3. Festuco valesiacae-Stipetum capillatae Sillinger 1931 (community of basic rocks or on loess deep soils; with regard to the succession it belongs to the most advanced communities of the Festucion valesiacae in the esk Stedoho Hills). In agreement with the current development of the phytocoenological nomenclature, the correct name for each syntaxon according to the priority rule is established. All associations are documented by phytocoenological relevs, and relevant synonyms; and their brief characteristic, syngenetical and topographical relationships, and comparison with published data are given. All associations have also been completed by ecological features which will be described in the second part of this paper. 
4181004|The paper brings a description of some macrophytic plant communities from classes Lemnetea and Potametea occurring in oxbows, backwaters and canals of the internal Danube delta in Czechoslovakia.
4179926| Ausgehend von den gemeinsamen Merkmalen der Calystegietalia sepium lsst eine Analyse der bisher aus Mitteleuropa beschriebenen Vegetationseinheiten 12 Assoziationen als gesichert erscheinen. Neben der coenologischen Zusammensetzung (vgl. Tab. 1-4) werden die strukturellen Merkmale, die standrtlichen Bedingungen, die geographische Verbreitung sowie diagnostisch wichtige Kontaktgesellschaften behandelt (vgl. Tab. 5). Neu abgegrenzt werden ausser einigen Subassoziationen die Assoziationen Fallopio-Cucubaletum und Aristolochio-Cucubaletum. Innerhalb der Calystegietalia lassen sich die besttigten Assoziationen den Verbnden Archangelicion litoralis Tx. (50) 62, Senecion fluviatilis Tx. (47) 50 und Humulo-Fallopion dumetori Pass. 65 zuordnen. Abschliessend wird die besondere landeskulturelle Bedeutung der Ufersaumgesell-schaften behandelt. /// Some notes concerning the general coenology, structure, habitat, and syngeography of the Calystegietalia are given. Associations known up to the present in the Central Europe are described, emphasizing the specific species combination, syntaxonomic subdivision, habitat characteristics, contact communities, and distribution within the region. The following units have been distinguished (cf. Tabs. 1-5 Appendices 1-4): 1. Soncho-Archangelicetum Tx. 37, 2. Cuscuto-Calystegietum Tx. 47, 3. Asperulo-Calystegietum (Steffen 31) Tx. 50, 4. Achilleo-Cuscutetum (Hueck 30) Tx. 50, 5. Impatienti-Solidaginetum Moor 58, 6. Archangelico-Calystegietum Pass. 64, 7. Althaeo-Calystegietum Beeftink 65, 8. Urtico-Calystegietum (Seib. 62) Grs et Mll. 69, 9. Epilobio-Calystegietum Hilbig, Heinr. et Niem. 72, 10. Sonchetum palustris (Vlieg. et van Zinderen Bakker) van Donselaar 61, 11. Solanum-Calystegia-comm. 12. Cuscuta-Humulus-comm. 13. Fallopio-Cucubaletum Pass, ass. nova, 14. Aristolochio-Cucubaletum Pass. ass. nova. Discussion of the affinities of different associations resulted in the following conclusion: those associations which occur on moist sites in the northern part of Central Europe, belong to Archangelicion litoralis Tx. (50) 62 with the species Phragmites australis, Eupatorium cannabinum, Archangelica archangelica; whereas those with Phalaris arundinacea, Senecio fluviatilis, Aegopodium podagraria, Alliaria petiolata belong to Senecion fluviatilis Tx. 50, and those which are bound to the riversides moist in the summer with Fallopia dumetorum, Humulus lupulus, Cucubalus baccifer belong to Humulo-Fallopion Pass. 65. In the last chapter the importance of the Calystegietalia concerning landscape, its management and protection is emphasized. 
4180846|Examination of type specimens of the monotypic genera, Grahamia (G. bracteata) and Talinaria (T. palmeri) together with detailed palynological, morphological and seed anatomical evidence have shown that these two species are very similar. These two genera are subsequently grouped into one genus, Grahamia. A new combination, G. palmeri is now proposed.
4179737|The species of three genera - Sporoschisma Berk. et Br., Sporoschismopsis Hol.-Jech. et Hennebert and Catenularia Grove are treated in this paper from Czechoslovakia: Sporoschisma juvenile Boudier, S. mirabile Berk. et Br., Sporoschismopsis moravica Hol.-Jech. et Hennebert and Catenularia cuneiformis (Richon) Mason. The studied fungi produce the conidia in basipetal succession, endogenously or subendogenously, quite internally in large phialides or only inside open swollen collarettes.
4180704|The vegetation gradient analysis along two complex gradients (height above low water level and soil-salinity) has been carried out, and a floristic classification of communities drawn up following the principles of the Braun-Blanquet approach. A new class Glycyrrhizetea glabrae has been established. The remaining communities are classified under Molinio-Arrhenatheretea, Phragmitetea, Bolboschoenetea maritimi and Crypsietea aculeatae. General regularities of variations in vegetation along the flood-plain longitudinal profile are discussed, phytocoenological tables describing the syntaxa established are given.
4181251|Chromosome numbers were determined in Geum montanum L.: only hexaploids (2n=42) were found on 44 localities throughout most of the distribution area. Tetraploid level (2n=28) previously reported in this species from the Carpathians was not confirmed.
4180582|A total of 34 plant associations are reported from the Kaldidalur area, WSW Iceland, grouped in 15 alliances and 11 orders; 9 associations are described as new ones.
4179968| Cytological and morphological studies have been carried out on populations of Campanula rotundifolia L., C. Tatrae Borbs (group Vulgares) and C. bohemica Hruby (group Scheuchzerianae) from a wide range of habitats in Czechoslovakia. Chromosome counts have been made on material from 185 populations, revealing the presence of two ploidy levels within the limits of the species C. rotundifolia L.: diploid (2n = 34) and tetraploid (2n = 68). The other two species are tetraploid, with 2n = 68. C. Tatrae Borbs, comprising monticolous derivatives of C. rotundifolia L., is subdivided into three subspecies [subsp. Tatrae, subsp. mentiens (Witas.) Kovanda and subsp. sudetica (Hruby) Kovanda], each representing a major regional facies of the species. Within C. bohemica Hruby, two vicarious subspecies are recognized which can be equated with subsp. bohemica and subsp. gelida Kovanda. Ecology, geographical distribution, variation and relationships of all these taxa have been reconsidered. Descriptions and distribution maps are provided. 
4179575| Aus dem Andesitgebiet des Kremnitzer Gebirges (Mittelslowakei) wird eine vegetations-kundliche Analyse der wichtigsten Weidegesellschaften dargelegt. Die Talweiden stellt die Assoziation Lolio-Cynosuretum Tx. 1933 dar. Sie ist nur wenig verbreitet u. zw. in der Subassoziation typicum. Eine hnliche Gesellschaft wird in der Form einer Sammeltabelle aus dem Tal des Slan-Flusses angefhrt. Am meisten sind die Bergweiden verbreitet, die durch die Assoziation Anthoxantho-Agrostietum Sillinger 1933 em. Jurko 1969 reprsentiert werden. Die fr niedrigere Lagen charakteristische Subassoziation A.-A. typicum kann in zwei Varianten gegliedert werden, eine oligotrophe mit Ononis spinosa und eine eutrophe (gemht und beweidet) mit Rhinanthus minor. Die Subassoziation A.-A. nardetosum subass. nova ist in Hhen von ber 700 m anzutreffen. Die bisher verffentlichten Tabellen dieses Typs wurden einer syntaxonomischen Revision unterzogen und im Rahmen dieser Subassoziation mehrere Varianten herausgestellt. Die selteneren Halbtrockenrasen im Kremnitzer Gebirge werden provisorisch nur als Brachypodium pinnatum-Gesellschaft dargestellt. In zwei Aufnahmen aus diesem Gebiet wird das Nardetum montanum Sillinger 1933 dokumentiert. Endlich wird ganz kurz eine wirtschaftliche Bewertung dieser Gesellschaften angefhrt. /// Next to forest, pasture communities constitute the dominant vegetation of the Kremnica Mountains in central Slovakia. They occur principally on mineral-rich andesite soils. In these narrow valleys conditions for extension of the alluvial grasslands represented by the association Lolio-Cynosuretum Txen 1937 are absent. From the point of view of land utilisation they are of high quality but are less extensively farmed than the other pastures of this region. Transitional syntaxa to mountain pastures have not been observed. Reference is made to a similar community from the alluvium of the Slan river as a variant of Poa trivialis. Most of the pastures in the study area, which overlies different geological bedrocks, belong to the regional association Anthoxantho-Agrostietum Sillinger 1933 em. Jurko 1969. On lowlying sites a sub-association A.-A. typicum Jurko 1969 occurs with two variants. The oligotrophic variant with Ononis spinosa is more xero- and thermophilous, while the variant with Rhinanthus minor is widespread in medium and higher situations where it often merges into sub-associations with Nardus stricta. The sub-association A.-A. nardetosum subass. nova spreads on sites up to 700 m above sea level. Formerly, similar communities have been described from Slovakia under different names. After syntaxonomical re-evaluation the author is of the opinion that they can be included in this sub-association. The differential species indicate a connecting link to the alliance Nardo-Agrostidion. Within this sub-association several new variants can be distinguished. These are, variant with Genista pilosa (Dostl 1933); variant with Viola tricolor ssp. subalpina (Sillinger 1933, Svoboda 1939); variant with Cytisus procumbens (Mikyka 1932); variant with Succisa pratensis (Mth et Kovcs 1960); and variant with Filipendula vulgaris (Fajmonov 1963). Mesoxerophytic pastures occur less frequently and only as small areas on both calcareous and andesitic soils. Owing to the lack of phytocoenological data from Slovakia it has not been possible to determine these precisely and they are regarded provisionally as the Brachypodium pinnatum-community. They are especially rich in herbs and are distinguished from the other pasture communities by the absence of transitional types. Grasslands belonging to the association Nardetum montanum Sillinger 1933 are present in 2 relevs. They occur only in the highest localities of the region. The economic importance of the different types has been indicated on the basis of the fodder values of the individual communities. 
4179579|A survey is given of three natural groups of the subsection Heterophylla (Witas.) Fed. of the genus Campanula L. Within the Saxicolae four taxa of higher rank have been revealed: C. xylocarpa Kovanda (2n = 34), C. gentilis Kovanda (2n = 34), C. moravica (Spitzner) Kovanda subsp. moravica (2n = 68), and C. moravica subsp. xylorrhiza (O. Schwarz) Kovanda (2n = 102). Both Alpicolae and Lanceolatae are represented by a single species: the first by C. cochleariifolia Lam. (2n = 34), the latter by C. serrata (Kit. ap. Schult.) Hendrych (2n = 34). Cytology, ecology and geographical distribution of all these taxa have been reviewed, and relationships to the other members of the complex discussed. Infraspecific variation within each species has also been examined.
4181324| Pollen spectra of three samples of dust taken from four medieval books are reported. The books, printed A.D. 1500-1530, were preserved in the Franciscan monastery of Kada (NW Bohemia) up to c. 30 years ago, and thereafter in Prague. Sample 1 contains rather few pollen grains, most of which are derived from cereals, probably from pastries or bread. Sample 2 is rich in pollen, containing abundant tree pollen, mainly Quercus and Fagus, indicating that the dust indeed comes from NW Bohemia rather than from Prague. Its overall pollen spectrum also corresponds well to published data from medieval forests and the cultural landscape of the region. The spectrum of sample 3 (two books) is rather rich in pollen, mainly of synanthropic plants. The remarkably high pollen numbers of cultivated plants (Sambucus nigra, Lathyrus type and Symphytum) are still unexplained. 
4181513|Eutrophication is often considered to play an important role in reed decline. We detected to use a chronological comparison of the two phenomena as a useful aid in the search for a possible causal relationship between them. Eutrophication is usually documented by changes in phosphorus and nitrogen content in water but there are no such data older than 10 years available for most of the lakes in which reed decline has been observed. The entire historical record of eutrophication has been recently reconstructed from micropaleontological analysis of indicatory diatom frustules, deposited in sediments in three lakes in south Germany. In these lakes, reed decline was well documented by archival aerial photographs. The comparison of reed decline history with the reconstructed changes in water quality confirmed the coincidence of reed decline and eutrophication. Consequently, eutrophication cannot be excluded as a potential cause of reed decline in any lake in this study.
4179491| Die bisherigen Erkenntnisse ber die Variabilitt der Schotenlnge bei den untersuchten Taxa des Komplexes Arabis hirsuta (L.) Scop. (Novotn 1965) werden unter Bercksichtigung mancher Umweltfaktoren erweitert. Als Material dienten Pflanzen aus den Kultivierungsversuchen, in welchen der verschiedene Auspflanzungsabstand als massgebender Faktor wirkt. Die Methodik wurde dem Ziel, die taxonomische Bedeutung der Schotenlnge zu erfassen, angepasst. Durch die Wahl des geeigneten Materials und die Anpassung der Methodik wurde erreicht, dass der Unterschied der usseren und inneren Faktoren deutlich hervortritt. Wenn auch die Kultivierungsbedingungen die reale Merkmalsvariabilitt abgendert haben, blieben die relativen Verhltnisse und Beziehungen zwischen den Taxa gleich. Die Beziehungen zwischen den Taxa sind unterschiedlich. Die Ausntzung dieser Unterschiede beruht in der Trennung der Taxa Arabis sessilifolia und A. sagittata. Der taxonomische Wert der Schotenlnge hat seine Begrndung in der genetischen Differenzierung der untersuchten Taxa des Komplexes. Die Durchprfung des Charakters und des Umfanges der Variabilitt zeigt die verschiedene Empfindlichkeit der einzelnen Taxa auf. /// In the present paper the author has attempted to demonstrate the taxonomic value of the pod length. The methods were so arranged that the different characters of the individual taxa investigated under certain cultivation conditions could be ascertained. The variability is clearer if a larger number of plants and therefore a smaller number of pod lengths from each plant are taken into consideration. Since there were significant differences between the results of five and of three measurements respectively, objections could be raised if the number of measurements was reduced to three. The variability in individual experimental variants was investigated by means of variation polygons which were mutually compared. Graphical representation of the variability of characters makes it possible to evaluate the importance of a character for distinguishing samples on the basis of relative ratios. In general, a denser stand of plants diminished the pod length; it appeared in the graphical representation as a shift of the polygons to the left. During two vegetation periods the external conditions did not substantially alter the relative ratios of Arabis planisiliqua. Parallel with the graphical representation biometrical evaluation was carried out. For the solution of subsidiary problems - not feasible by graphical representation - the t-test and F-test were applied. These tests contributed to knowledge of the character and extent of variability of the pod lengths so that the real differences were ascertained correctly. The taxonomical value of the pod length was proved in the genetic differentiation of the investigated taxa of the Arabis hirsuta (L.) Scop. complex. The shortest pods are in the species A. sessilifolia, the longest in A. sagittata; A. planisiliqua occupies an intermediary position. In pod length and its variability A. planisiliqua and A. sagittata are much more similar than are both taxa to A. sessilifolia. In spite of the fact that this character is strongly influenced by environmental factors, under certain conditions it may be used for taxonomical purposes. It has been found that the investigated taxa are not equally sensitive to the distance of individual plants. This influence diminishes from A. planisiliqua through A. sessilifolia to A. sagittata. - The final result of the investigation of the significance of a character is to ascertain the taxonomical value of the pod length. The best use of this character is in distinguishing the taxa A. sessilifolia and A. sagittata. The supposition that pod length represents a valuable character for the analysis of populations is well founded. The usefulness of this character is especially apparent in the frequent populations in which both A. sessilifolia and A. sagittata occur. The significance of the difference in the pod length of these two taxa appears only if a comparison of the other investigated characters is made. 
4181399|The original definition of the guild is reiterated and the concept discussed and placed in the context of related concepts such as resources and competition. From this conceptual framework the current use of guilds in studies of plant community ecology is evaluated. We discuss the criteria with which species are assigned to guilds, the association of guilds with specific communities, the resource classes on which guilds are based, and the competitive relationships between species of a guild. We conclude that the guild is presently applied in a much more loose way as compared to its original definition. In particular, the a priori assignment of species to guilds on the basis of the use of well-defined resource classes is often relaxed. This obscures the insight that the guild structure may provide in the role of resource partitioning and competition in structuring the community. A more strict use of the concept is advocated.
4181029| Chromosome numbers are presented in the following 16 Phanerogams of the Czechoslovak flora: Amaranthus blitoides S. Watson, Anthoxanthum alpinum . Lve et D. Lve, Aster amellus L., Bistorta major S. F. Gray, Cardamine hirsuta L., Cardamine parviflora L., Chrysosplenium oppositifolium L., Dactylis glomerata L. subsp. aschersoniana (Graebner) Thell., Elatine hydropiper L. s. l., Geranium phaeum L., Hieracium lachenalii C. C. Gmel., Jovibarba sobolifera (Sims) Opiz, Kickxia spuria (L.) Dum., Persicaria hydropiper (L.) Spach, Sedum alpestre Vill. and Tephroseris crispa (Jacq.) Schur. Six of them are reported for the first time from Czechoslovakia, the others are mostly first reports of chromosome numbers from the Bohemian and Moravian regions. A new diploid number of 2n = 36 is given in Elatine hydropiper L. s. l. All results are compared with as yet published data. 
4181184|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat and Moravec 1993), the present work collects the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, BARKMAN et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1990. The list comprises 36 names of syntaxa; 2 names are given in addition to the "Index 1987" (Theurillat and Moravec 1990).
4180136| Die Arbeit behandelt die Taxonomie, kologie und Chorologie der Arten der Gattung Oenothera L. in der Tschechoslowakei. Nach der Einleitung folgt die kologische Charakteristik, in der die Aufmerksamkeit der kologie und Karpobiologie gewidment wird. Ferner wird der Schlssel zur Bestimmung der tschechoslowakischen Arten der Gattung Oenothera angefhrt, dem eine Aufzhlung der Arten mit taxonomischen, kologischen und chorologischen Anmerkungen folgt. Endlich wird die Verbreitung in der Tschechoslowakei mit beigelegten Karten angefhrt. Insgesamt sind aus der Tschechoslowakei 26 Arten und Hybriden bekannt. Neu wurden folgende Taxa beschrieben: Oenothera rubricaulis Kleb. var. dentifolia Jehlk et Rostaski, Oe. chicaginensis De Vries ex Renner var. minutiflora Rostaski et Jehlk, Oe. x slovaca Jehlk et Rostaski, Oe. issleri Renner ex Rostaski var. silesiacoides Rostaski et Jehlk. /// The paper gives the results of a revision of the Czechoslovak species of the genus Oenothera L., based on field studies, cultivation and study of herbarium material from 37 herbaria, Czechoslovak and foreign. In all, 26 species and hybrids have been found to occur in Czechoslovakia: Subgenus Kneiffia (Spach) Munz: Oe. tetragona Roth. Subgenus Megapterium (Spach) Munz: Oe. missouriensis Sims. Subgenus Raimannia (Rose) Munz: Oe. stricta Ledeb. ex Link. Subgenus Oenothera: I. sect. Oenothera: Oe. biennis L., Oe. fallax Renner em. Rostaski, Oe. punctulata Rostaski et Gutte, Oe. hoelscheri Renner ex Rostaski, Oe. suaveolens Desf. ex Pers., Oe. oehlkersi Kappus, Oe. drawerti Renner ex Rostaski, Oe. rubricaulis Kleb., Oe. acutifolia Rostaski, Oe. chicaginensis De Vries ex Renner, Oe. erythrosepala Borbs; II. sect. Strigosae Rostaski: Oe. salicifolia Desf. ex G. Don, Oe.  slovaca Jehlk et Rostaski, Oe. renneri H. Scholz; III. sect. Parviflorae Rostaski: Oe. parviflora L., Oe. biennis  parviflora, Oe. silesiaca Renner, Oe. ammophila Focke, Oe. albipercurva Renner ex Hudziok, Oe. rubricaulis  ammophila, Oe. syrticola Bartl., Oe. issleri Renner ex Rostaski, Oe. turoviensis Rostaski. The following taxa are described as new: Oenothera rubricaulis Kleb. var. dentifolia Jehlk et Rostaski, Oe. chicaginensis De Vries ex Renner var. minutiflora Rostaski et Jehlk, Oe.  slovaca Jehlk et Rostaski, Oe. issleri Renner ex Rostaski var. silesiacoides Rostaski et Jehlk. 
4180138|A new species (tetraploid with 2n = 24) of the group Luzula compestris-multiflora is described from Czechoslovakia. The species also occurs in Hungary and Germany.
4181062| Seligeria oelandica is reported as new to Central Europe, where it occurs in Slovensk raj in the West Carpathians, Czechoslovakia. The species is described and illustrated from material collected in this locality. A map of its European distribution is given, together with a full list of specimens examined. 
4180736| Distributions of individual species and plant communities growing on the bottom of a medium-sized,
4180243|A simple simulation model of the secondary shrub succession has been elaborated on the grounds of primary field data from abandoned fields of different ages in the area of Bohemian Karst. The model describes vegetational dynamics using adapted Volterra-Lotka equations for competing species. Carrying capacities and growth rates are expressed as a function of the depth of the soil.
4181396|The exchange of ideas and information between vegetation ecology and pollination ecology is relatively restricted, yet both fields have devised methods to detect the structure of species assemblages and communities. To promote the exchange of ideas between fields I compare approaches, concepts, and problems faced by researchers working in each area. Both vegetative and reproductive interactions may generate assemblage structure through ecological sorting or through character displacement. Vegetative interactions may lead to assemblage organization more often by ecological sorting and reproductive interactions more often by character displacement. Vegetative interactions generally operate over shorter temporal and smaller spatial scales than reproductive interactions and may be affected more strongly by temporal and spatial heterogeneity in abiotic and biotic environments. These differences affect how the concept of ecological niche should be applied to plants. The Hutchinsonian concept of niche needs to be significantly modified before it can be usefully applied to plants. Null models are a valuable tool for investigating both vegetative and reproductive structuring of plant assemblages; however, the procedures followed in the application of null models need further refinement. The appropriate formulation of the null model may require information that is unavailable, hence multiple models may have to be employed to "bracket" conclusions. The literature on pollination community ecology demonstrates that difficult decisions must be made about the likely processes that have generated the structure being tested, the relevant definition of sympatry, how guild membership should be defined and employed, and what constraints should be incorporated into the null model to impose realism. Differences in these decisions will affect the outcome of the analysis. While top-down studies of pattern have numerous advantages, they usually cannot identify the process(es) that have generated the patterns. Bottom-up, experimental studies can be useful for identifying the processes, but they can rarely be used to assess the structure of an entire natural assemblage. The optimal approach to studying assemblage structure is to detect patterns with top-down analysis and use experiments to identify the processes that generate and maintain the patterns.
4181102|Seventeen natural Bulgarian populations of the species of the genus Carex sect. Digitatae were studied morphologically and karyologically. Stepwise discriminant analysis was used as a multivariate test for the separation of groups of populations from different taxa and to find a subset of characters contributing most for this separation. The following taxa were found in Bulgaria: C. humilis Leysser var. humilis; C. humilis var. longifolia Stoeva et Popova, var. n.; C. digitata L.; C. ornithopoda Willd. subsp. bulgarica (Vel.) Stoeva et Popova, comb. n. Aneuploid series of some chromosome numbers were found in C. digitata - 2n=48, 50, 52, 54, 56 and in C. ornithopoda subsp. bulgarica - 2n=52, 53, 54, 56. C. humilis has 2n=36 and a much more heterogeneous karyotype than that of the above taxa. The values of the Euclidean distance between the populations vary within similar limits in both species C. humilis and C. digitata; this is not in accordance with the karyological results. The within and between population morphological variations were compared in each species. The first dominates in overall variation, which is probably connected with the very large populations and their mosaic space structure.
4180907| Investigation of halophyte communities of Western substeppe ilmens of the Volga delta and their classification by the Braun-Blanquet method enabled us to distinguish 5 associations in this area: Suaedo salsae-Halocnemetum, Limonietum suffruticosi, Kalidietum foliati, Suaedo-Frankenietum, Suaedo-Petrosimonietum. These associations were united in the new alliance Climacoptero-Suaedion previously included in the order Halostachyetalia opa 1939, the class Puccinellio-Salicornietea opa 1939. 
4180643| A new species of Oenothera was described which is related to Oe. nissensis Rostaski. It has been found on three synanthropic localities in Moravian Silesia uptill now. 
4180171| In den Gebirgen Povask Inovec und Mal Karpaty konnten wir das Vorkommen von Artenkombinationen und charakteristischen Standorten der Pionierschuttgesellschaften aus der Klasse Thlaspietea rotundifolii Br.-Bl. et al. 1948 feststellen Zu ihnen gehrt das Galeopsietum angustifoliae (Libbert 1938) Bkker 1942 und die Epilobium dodonaei-Seseli osseum-Gesellschaft aus dem Verband Stipion calamagrostis. In der Arbeit wurde erhhte Aufmerksamkeit der synmorphologischen und synkologischen Charakteristik und syntaxonomischen Einordnung gewidment. /// Relatively widely distributed plant communities of alluvial gravel riverbanks as well as screes in high elevations have been quite well documented so far on the territory of Slovakia. On the contrary there are almost no data on these communities from colline to submontane belts. During vegetation research in the Povask Inovec Mts. and the Mal Karpaty Mts. (Western Slovakia) the authors located pioneer scree plant communities of the class Thlaspietea rotundifolii, namely the association Galeopsietum angustifoliae and Epilobium dodonaei-Seseli osseum-community. Galeopsietum angustifoliae forms unistrate sparse small-areal phytocoenoses dominated by Galeopsis angustifolia and/or Chaenarrhinum minus. Therophytes prevail in phytocoenose structure. Floristical variability and the low homotoneity (0,239 sensu eka 1966) as well al low mean coverage value 27,1% can be considered important synmorphological characteristics of Galeopsietum angustifoliae. The phytocoenoses of this community are growing at the basal parts of furrows on dolomite rocks, in deluvial screes, at the bottoms, slopes and various gravel deponia in quarries. The substratum can be characterized as raw protosoils with a low content of clay and loam and a high content of skeleton. Owing to precipitation the fine particles are flushed to the lower situated soil layers. The distinguished layer formed in this way is capable of holding these elements back. By enriching soil by nitrogen compounds and humus as well, suitable conditions for the ecession of nitrophilous plants are formed. These species are regarded as differential species of the subassociation Galeopsietum angustifoliae polygonetosum avicularis. In the dolomite quarries on the southern slopes of the Mal Karpaty Mts. (near Loonec and Doln Lopaov) the Epilobium dodonaei-Seseli osseum-community occurs. It requiers deeper and loose soils as well as higher amounts of fine soil ingredients. 
4179499| In der vorliegenden Arbeit wurden mesophile und subxerophile Waldgesellschaften des Mittelbhmischen Hgellandes und der Elbeebene studiert. Es wurden hier folgende Syntaxa festgestellt und analysiert: das Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957 mit drei Subassoziationen (typicum, primuletosum veris, luzuletosum albidae), das Galio rotundifolii-Quercetum ass. nova prov., das Tilio-Quercetum sensu Passarge 1962 mit zwei Ausbildungsformen (typische, Ausb. von Potentilla alba) und das Potentillo albae-Quercetum Libbert 1933 mit zwei Ausbildungsformen (typische, Ausb. von Festuca heterophylla). Diese Gesellschaften wurden vom phytoznotischen und kologischen Standpunkt aus analysiert; bei jeder Gesellschaft wird auch ihre Verbreitung und wirtschaftliche Wertung behandelt. Die floristische hnlichkeit und Homogenitt einzelner Syntaxa wurde mathematisch berprft. /// In the territory of Central Bohemia (cf. Fig. 1) the following associations of mesophilous and subxerophilous forests were described: 1. The Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957 (divided into three subassociations: typicum, primuletosum veris and luzuletosum) is the most frequent community of the Carpinion alliance in Central Bohemia. Its floristic composition can be seen from table 1. This association represents an unit ecologically rather heterogenous; it occurs on mesotrophic or eutrophic soils at lower altitudes of our territory (at about (190-400 m. above sea-level) in flat areas as well as on steep slopes. The results of the physical and chemical soil analyses can be seen from tables 2-10. The Galio-Carpinetum represents a climax community of the plain and hill belt. The Galio-Carpinetum typicum Oberd. 1957 exhibits no differentiating species and represents the optimum stage of the association. It occurs mostly on loam sandy soils of the types Braunerde, Parabraunerde or Pseudogley-Parabraunerde as understood by Mckenhausen (1959). The Galio-Carpinetum primuletosum veris (Klika 1932) Z. Neuh. 1964 is bound only to soils of calcareous substrata. The variant with Actaea spicata represents a moister type of this subassociation; it occurs on steep, shady and fairly moist foots of slopes. The typical variant can be seen as an optimum stage of the Galio-Carpinetum primuletosum veris. The variant with Cornus mas, on the contrary, occurs in warmer and drier regions. The Galio-Carpinetum luzuletosum Oberd. 1957 is characterised by relatively poor soils (Parabraunerde type), often with traces of gleization. The geographical distribution of the Galio-Carpinetum can be seen from the map of localities of vegetation plots (Fig. 1). 2. The Galio rotundifolii-Quercetum ass. nova prov. is characterised by the following character and differentiating species: Galium rotundifolium, Senecio* fuchsii and Luzula pilosa (cf. table 11). It can be considered as a local association of the Carpinion alliance, although its affinity to the Carpinion alliance and the Fagetalia order is only weak. This association was classified under the alliance named on the basis of its higher mathematical similarity to the communities of the Carpinion than to those of the Quercion pubescentipetraeae. The Galio rotundifolii-Quercetum occurs on heavy soils, affected by suspended ground water, in flat areas as well as on mild slopes. The distribution of this association can be seen from Fig. 1. 3. The Tilio-Quercetum Passarge 1962 (table 14) can be characterised by the following ecologically heterogenous group of species: Poa* angustifolia, Carex pallescens, Holcus mollis, Hypericum montanum, Carex pilulifera, C. montana. It shows only a weak affinity to the Carpinion alliance and the Fagetalia order. Two lower units (a typical form and a form with Potentilla alba) were analysed. The Tilio-Quercetum occurs mostly on sandy terraces; it is to be found on heavy loess loam soils too. The soils (of oligotrophic Braunerde or Parabraunerde types) are relatively poorer in nutrients (cf. table 15-16). The Tilio-Quercetum is relatively rare in our territory; it was found in the neighbourhood of Praha and in the Valley of the Middle Labe (cf. Fig. 1). 4. The Potentillo albae-Quercetum Libbert 1933 (cf. table 17) of the Quercion pubescenti-petraeae alliance is, in our territory, represented by two lower units. The more acidophilous typical form is poorer in species. The form with Festuca heterophylla can be seen as a transition to the Galio-Carpinetum primuletosum veris. This form was classified under the Potentillo-Quercetum on the basis of mathematical comparison. The Potentillo-Quercetum appears on heavy, temporarily very dry and cemented soils in flat areas, dry southern slopes or mild depressions. According to the classification of Kubina (1953) and Mckenhausen (1959) its soils belong to the types of Pseudogley-Parabraunerde, vergleyte Parabraunerde, braune Rendsina or Rendsina with traces of gleization (cf. table 18). The particular associations analysed in our territory were mutually compared by a mathematical method. All associations exhibit a relatively high inner homogenity (45-66%). The mean floristic similarity between the analysed associations can be seen in the diagram on page 267. The ecological variability of the particular associations and their lower units is not equal. The variability of the
4181006|This paper presents the results of a comparative phytocoenological examination of the macrophyte (aquatic and littoral) fishpond vegetation in relation to basic changes of this vegetation after anthropogenic impact (intense fertilizer application, large scale-duck farming, fishpond amelioration) in the period of 35 years (1941-1949; 1961-1976). The results are concentrated in tables (1, 2) and in short conclusions.
4179852| Gegenstand dieses Beitrages ist die syntaxonomisch-synkologische Charakteristik des Alnetum incanae Ldi 1921 in den Tschechischen Lndern. Bestnde dieser montanen Auenwaldassoziation begleiten hier Flussgewsser in Gebirgstlern und am Hochgebirgsrand, meist in den Lagen von 650-900 m . NN. Das Alnetum incanae wird in zwei Subassoziationen geteilt. Das feuchteliebende Alnetum incanae calthetosum Knapp ex Neuhuslov-Novotn subass. nova ist an Gleybden (Nassgleye, sauerstoffreiche Gleye) gebunden, das Alnetum incanae typicum Oberd. 1949 (mit zwei Varianten) bestockt Paternia-Bden. Die Aegopodium podagraria-Variante der typischen Subassoziation bevorzugt pedogenetisch mehr entwickelte Bden mit tiefem Grundwasser, meist in der Kontaktzone zu Klimaxgesellschaften. /// This contribution presents a phytocoenological and ecological analysis of the Alnetum incanae Ldi 1921 occurring in the Czech lands. In the area studied, this association represents a montane alluvial forest whose distribution centre lies at altitudes between 650 m and 900 m (Fig. 1). In the Czech countries two subassociations can be distinguished: the hygrophilous Alnetum incanae calthetosum Knapp ex Neuhuslov-Novotn and the typical subassociation Alnetum incanae typicum Oberd. 1949. Alnetum incanae calthetosum (differential species: Caltha palustris, Cardamine amara, Carex silvatica) represents the hygrophilous form of the association due to a high groundwater table and unfavourable aeration of the soil. Its stands occur over clay-loamy nassgleys or sandy gleys rich in oxygen. Alnetum incanae typicum Oberd. 1949 (lacking differential species) is a community of fresh soils. Its typical variant (synonym: Alnetum incanae typicum Mller et Grs 1958) is associated with moderately humous, almost yearly flooded mid-gleyed soils of the paternia type, well aerated, at least in their upper layers. Stands of the variant with Aegopodium podagraria of the Alnetum incanae typicum (synonym: Alnetum incanae aegopodietosum Mller et Grs 1958) occur on strongly or very strongly humous, brownish soils of the type of a typical paternia, flooded at high water stage only; their groundwater table is very low, and the whole range of their profile is well aerated. 
4180589|Pinguicula rotundiflora (Lentibulariaceae), a new species from southern Mexico related to P. parvifolia Robinson is described and illustrated.
4179820| Die Ursachen bestimmter Schwierigkeiten bei der Klassifizierung von Apophyten-Gesellschaften nach der Zrich-Montpellier-Schule liegen in der rumlichen und zeitlichen Vernderlichkeit der Verbreitung und Vergesellschaftung einzelner Apophyten. Das Bemhen die Apophyten-Gesellschaften in der "Assoziationsrangstufe" zu typisieren, stsst auf methodische Widersprche der Schule. Die Apophyten sind als "Assoziations-Kennarten" kaum anwendbar. Die Begriffe "Apophyt" und "Assoziations-Kennart" schliessen sich schon nach ihrem Inhalt gegenseitig aus. Die Apophyten-Gesellschaften kann man nicht als Assoziationen im Sinne der Zrich-Montpellier-Schule betrachten. Deshalb werden einige andere methodische Lsungsmglichkeiten vorgeschlagen und kurz diskutiert. /// The paper analyses some reasons for difficulties with the syntaxonomic classification of communities of nitrophilous apophytic species. Particular attention is paid to difficulties with the incorporation of these communities into the phytocenological system. The considerable lack of unity in methodology when defining the syntaxonomic units at the association level is emphasised. These discrepancies result in different meaning ascribed to the "association" by different authors, and in substantial heterogeneity in the content of this concept. The method employed in defining any "association" must therefore always be stated in each paper. Inevitably these methodological discrepancies are reflected in the system of higher syntaxonomic units. Some authors regard certain apophytic and neophytic plant species as "character species" of certain associations. In the opinion of the author of this paper, the contents of the terms "apophyte" and "association-character species" exclude each other. Each apophyte shows at least two cenological optima: (1) in a natural cenosis (group of cenoses) from which it originates; (2) in an anthropogenous cenosis (group of cenoses) in which its occurrence is secondary. The distribution of a species often markedly differs in various types of anthropogenous communities and in different regions. It also varies in dependence on the history of human colonisation and the economic development of a territory. The present paper gives numerous examples of these phenomena. The last chapter of the paper mentions several new ways of classifying anthropogenous plant communities. The main problem is the large number of new and recently arising species combinations entered by many anthropophytes. Consequently, anthropogenous plant communities have to be studied and typified with respect to their continuous variation in both space and time. This requirement is fulfilled, for instance, by the new classification method after Kopeck and Hejn (1971, 1974a, 1974b) and Kopeck (1974). This method renders it possible to incorporate a great many anthropogenous communities into the phytocenological system. The synsystematic position of individual communities in the auxillary framework of higher syntaxonomic units is not rigidly fixed; it depends on spatial and temporal changes of their species composition. 
4180313| Echio-Verbascetum Sissingh 1950, Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albae Slavk 1978 und Erysimo-Galeopsietum angustifoliae Mucina 1982 gehren zur Gruppe von Gesellschaften des Verbandes Dauco-Melilotion Grs 1966 auf natrlichen Standorten, d.h. im Falle der Donau-Tiefebene auf Flusskiesbnken. Im mittleren Povaie-Gebiet kommen diese Gesellschaften entlang des Vh-Flusses vor, wobei sie typische Zonationssysteme bilden. Sie sind die artenreichsten Gesellschaften des Verbandes, ihre Artenzahl erreicht sogar Werte von 47-49 (Echio-Verbascetum). Die Lactuca viminea-Artemisia campestris-Gesellschaft ist im Untersuchungsgebiet selten. Sie besiedelt halbruderale Standorte - ruderalisierte Bergfsse unter Abhngen. Zu den grundlegenden Charakteristika der Gesellschaften gehrt auch der hohe Anteil thermophiler und xerophiler Arten der Klasse Sedo-Scleranthetea und Festuco-Brometea, als auch der Anteil von Arten skelettreicher Substrate (Arten der Klasse Thlaspietea rotundifolii). /// From the northwestern part of Podunajsk nina Lowlands there is described the group of the communities of the alliance Dauco-Melilotion, which meets Echio-Verbascetum Sissingh 1950, Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albae Slavk 1978 and Erysimo-Galeopsietum angustifoliae Mucina 1982. These communities are close related synecologically and as to their floristic composition and syndynamics as well. They form a typical zonation system on gravel banks of the river Vh. The description of the community of Lactuca viminea and Artemisia campestris is added. This one could be found on semiruderal sites (ruderalized slope-foots of the Mal Karpaty Mts.). In the floristic composition of this community a lot of xerothermic species highly participate. 
4179619| Im Rahmen des europischen Systems der Klasse Ammophiletea Br.-Bl. et R. Tx. 1943 stellt der Verfasser fr den Verband Elymion gigantei Morariu 1957 eine neue Ordnung Elymetalia gigantei Vich. ordo nova auf, in die die Stranddnengesellschaften des kontinentalen Sdosteuropas einbezogen sind. Das Elymion gigantei Morariu 1957 ist in Bulgarien, Rumnien und in der Sdukraine durch folgende Assoziationen und Subassoziationen vertreten: Ammophilo-Elymetum gigantei Vich. ass. nova mit den Subassoziationen -typicum Vich. subass. nova, -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova und -festucetosum vaginatae Vich. subass. nova; Elymetum gigantei Morariu 1957 mit den Subassoziationen -typicum Vich. subass. nova und -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova; Centaureo odessanae-Elymetum gigantei Vich. ass. nova mit den Subassoziationen -typicum Vich. subass. nova, -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova, -agropyretosum maeotici Vich. subass. nova und -festucetosum beckeri Vich. subass. nova; provisorisch wird die Assoziation Asparago levinae-Calamagrostidetum epigei Vich. ass. nova prov. aufgestellt. In der Gruppe der litoralen Felsgesellschaften des Crithmo-Staticion Molin. 1934 wird das Goniolimoni-Crithmetum maritimi Vich. ass. nova, in der Gruppe der Splsaumgesellschaften des Euphorbion peplis R. Tx. 1950 das Cakileto euxinae-Salsoletum ruthenicae Vich. ass. nova mit den Subassoziationen -typicum Vich. subass. nova und -crambetosum ponticae Vich. subass.nova und das Cakileto euxinae-Salsoletum tragi Vich. ass. nova angefhrt. /// The present paper presents a phytocenological study of the littoral vegetation of the Black Sea shore. The fundamental question is the syntaxonomical position of the sea-coast dunes plant communities of this area. For these communities of the class Ammophiletea Br.-Bl. et R. Tx. 1943 the new order Elymetalia gigantei Vich. ordo nova was proposed. This order with the alliance Elymion gigantei Morariu 1957 includes sea-coast dunes plant communities with a distribution in continental south-eastern and eastern Europe. The following associations and subassociations of the Elymion gigantei Morariu 1957 have been ascertained on the shore of the Black Sea up to the present: Ammophilo arundinaceae-Elymetum gigantei Vich. ass. nova is an association of the transitional territory between the Mediterranean and Pontic regions. Its distribution is limited to Bulgaria; in the east it reaches to the western margin of Dobrodgea. Besides the typical subassociation -typicum Vich. subass. nova the subassociations -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova and -festucetosum vaginatae Vich. subass. nova are also described anew. Elymetum gigantei Morariu 1957 with the subassociations -typicum Vich. subass. nova and -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova connects in the west with the foregoing association; in the east it is limited by the delta of Danube. It is known from Roumania Centaureo odessanae-Elymetum gigantei Vich. ass. nova with the subassociations -typicum Vich. ass. nova -cakiletosum euxinae Vich. subass. nova, -agropyretosum maeotici Vich. subass. nova and -festucetosum beckeri Vich. subass. nova is a plant community of the Pontic part of the Black Sea from the Danube delta as far as the Azov Sea in the east. The association Asparago levinae-Calamagrostidetum epigei Vich. ass. nova prov. which has been ascertained in the island of Dolgij (Ukraine) is described provisionally. Further associations which Borza et Bocaiu (1965) place in the Elymion gigantei Morariu 1957, do not belong to the vegetation of the sea-coast dunes of the Ammophiletea Br.-Bl. et R. Tx. 1943. Of other types of littoral vegetation plant communities of the alliances Crithmo-Staticion Molin. 1934 and Euphorbion peplis R. Tx. 1950 are described in this paper. The Mediterranean Crithmo-Staticion Molin. 1934 is represented only in Bulgaria by the Goniolimoni-Crithmetum maritimi Vich. ass. nova. Within the bounds of the Euphorbion peplis R. Tx. 1950 the following associations are described: Cakileto euxinae-Salsoletum ruthenicae Vich. ass. nova with the subassociations -typicum Vich. subass. nova (this in two variants) and -crambetosum ponticae Vich. subass. nova. It occurs all along the shore in Bulgaria. Cakileto euxinae-Salsoletum tragi Vich. ass. nova, which is provisionally placed in the Euphorbion peplis R. Tx. 1950, has been found in the Ukraine. 
4180522|Trianthema portulacastrum L. was recorded growing in cultivated fields north of Cairo in 1978. Description, distribution and ecology of the species are briefly outlined. Data and observations indicate the possibility of its becoming a pest in future in Egypt.
4181280|A new species of Myosotis ser. Palustres Popov, Myosotis michaelae, related to the M. nemorosa group, is described from France. Further localities from Switzerland, Romania and Bulgaria are listed. Diploid chromosome number (2n = 22) is given for the new species, and notes on its distribution, ecology and taxonomic relationships are presented. The lectotype is chosen and designated for the name Myosotis palustris L. var. scabra Simonk.
4179891| Die neunte Studie ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae ist in drei Teile aufgeteilt. Der erste Teil ist den Arten der Gattung Jungermannia gewidmet, die in Hawaii vorkommen. Nach dem Verfasser kommen im genannten Gebiet nur drei Jungermannia-Arten vor, u. zw. J. (L.) subulata Evans (bereits in der dritten Studie beschrieben und abgebildet), J. (P.) micrantha (Mitt.) Steph. und J. (S.) hawaiica (Mill.) Va, comb. nova. Die zwei letztgenannten Arten sind eingehend taxonomisch bearbeitet, weitere beschriebene, aus diesem Gebiet stammende Arten (J. baldwinii Steph., J. mauii Aust., J. newellana Steph., J. sexplicata Steph., Nardia exserta Evans, Plectocolea submicrantha Mill.) werden mit den obenerwhnten Arten synonymisiert. Der zweite Teil der Studie enthlt wichtige Ergnzungen zu den frheren Studien; J. (S.) pocsii Va sp. nova aus Zentralafrika ist neubeschrieben. Der dritte Teil ist eine Synopsis der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. /// The ninth study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys (based on fertile and sterile plants) to the Hawaiian species of the genus Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. 2. Synonymy, drawings and descriptions of J. (P.) micrantha (Mitt.) Steph. and J. (S.) hawaiica (Mill.) Va. There are also data on the type specimens, exsiccata, ecology, geographical distribution, variation, taxonomy and relationships of these taxa. 3. Important additions to the published papers of the autor; J. (S.) pocsii Va from Africa is described as new. 4. Synopsis of the species of the genus Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. 
4180266|Twenty three species of Hyphomycetes new to Czechoslovakia are listed with comments and illustrations. Seven are new to science-Blastophorum pini, Bloxamia bohemica, Junctospora pulchra, Linodochium formosum, Phaeostalagmus peregrinus, Sporidesmium doliiforme, Xiambola mirabilis-and of these, two are the types of new genera (Junctospora and Xiambola). The new species and genera are described, illustrated and discussed. Anamorphs of Mytilidion gemmigenum Fuckel and Pseudohelotium pineti (Batsch ex Fr.) Fuckel in Taeniolella and Linodochium, respectively are reported. Collections of these fungi from Britain are also cited. Data on morphology, ecology and distribution of those species occurring in both Britain and Czechoslovakia are compared.
4181398|Three issues are discussed relevant to the controversy over using null models and observational data on guild structure to test community-level predictions based on limiting similarity theory. First, I argue that most limiting similarity theory is not based on reasonable assumptions for plants and that the theory that is relevant does not generate any predictions about expected guild proportionality on a small spatial scale. Therefore, regardless of adequacy of the statistical methods, the predictions being tested by the body of literature using null models to test for niche limitation are unlikely to be relevant in most plant comunities. Second, assuming that the predictions are after all worth being tested, I argue that most tests using the guild approach do not provide adequate explanations of how the defined guilds could lead to greater competition within vs. between guilds. If this is not true for the particular guilds used, the predictions of guild proportionality or size constancy will not be valid. Third, I address the controversy over whether field experiments can provide more solid evidence than observational data about the role of competition in determining community structure by (1) suggesting methods of dealing with potential drawbacks of field experiments, and (2) suggesting alternative experimental approaches for directly addressing issues about community structure.
4180344| Der Bericht bringt die wichtigsten Ergebnisse der 2. Beratung ber die geplante Vegetationskarte Europas im Massstab 1: 3 Mill. Aufgrund der nationalen Vorschlge wurden die einheitlichen Legenden fr die arktische und boreale Zone Europas, fr die Vegetation der temperaten Zone von Mittel- und Osteuropa, der Balkanlnder, fr die Waldsteppen, Steppen und Wsten und fr die azonale Vegetation der Moore erarbeitet und zur Diskussion vorgelegt. Es wurde eine einheitliche Formationsgliederung vorgeschlagen und eine Farbenskala fr die Darstellung der Formationen empfohlen. Es wurden Massnahmen fr die weitere Organisierung des Projektes angenommen. 
4180031|Vertical profiles of soil temperature and of the dry and wet bulb temperature of the air, relative humidity and wind velocity were measured within and above stands of Junco-Molinietum Preising 1951 (facies of Deschampsia caespitosa) and Caricetum gracilis Almquist 1929 on selected sunny days during the growing season. Evapotranspiration was computed by means of the heat-budget equation. The principal difference between the two communities has been found in the soil temperature. The stand of the Caricetum gracilis occupies a habitat with a cooler soil and with a higher ground water level than the stand of the Junco-Molinietum coeruleae, facies of Deschampsia caespitosa. The evapotranspiration per unit ground area was higher by some 20% in the Caricetum gracilis. The evapotranspiration per unit above-ground biomass was much the same in both communities.
4180545|Chalara (Corda) Rabenh. and some closely similar and related genera as Exochalara W. Gams et Hol.-Jech., Fusichalara Hughes et Nag Raj and Dictyochaeta Speg. have been studied from the territory of Czechoslovakia, occassionaly from Poland or other regions. The paper provides a key to phialophorous Hyphomycetes with unbranched conidiophores and integrated terminal phialides, as well keys to species of studied genera. Redescriptions and figures are given for twenty species of Chalara, two species of Exochalara, one species of Fusichalara and seven species of Dictyochaeta Speg. 1923, the latter being an earlier name for Codinaea R. Maire 1937. Two new species are described both in Chalara and Dictyochaeta - C. neglecta Hol.-Jech., C. piceae-abietis Hol.-Jech., D. abnormis Hol.-Jech., D. menisporoides Hol.-Jech. and one in Exochalara - E. imbricata Hol.-Jech. Teleomorphs associated with the examined species are listed; the one connected with Chalara breviclavata Nag Raj et Kendrick is described as a new species here - Chaetosphaeria chalaroides Hol.-Jech.
4179735| New nomenclatural combinations are proposed, necessitated mostly by the adoption of a narrower concept of the generic classificatory unit or, in some cases, by necessary changes of the taxonomic rank in several taxa. Explanatory comments on the taxonomic and nomenclatural problems are provided in the following genera: Aegonychon S. F. Gray (Lithospermum L. p.p.), Anemonastrum Holub and Anemonoides Mill. (Anemone L. p.p.), Bromopsis Fourr. (= Bromus L. p.p.), Calathiana Delarbre (Gentiana L. p.p.), Calcitrapoides Fabr. (Centaurea L. p.p.), Ciminalis Adans. (Gentiana L. p.p.), Pistolochia Bernh. (Corydalis Vent. p.p.), Psyllium Mill. (Plantago L. p.p.) and Tephroseris (Reichenb.) Reichenb. (Senecio L. p.p.). In all 300 new combinations are proposed, including 17 in Anemonastrum, 32 in Anemonoides, 70 in Bromopsis, 13 in Calathiana, 13 in Calcitrapoides, 29 in Pistolochia, 40 in Tephroseris and 25 in Xanthoxalis. /// Whrend der Vorbereitung einiger zusammenfassenden Handbcher ber die tschechoslowakische Flora werden verschiedene Taxa-Gruppen taxonomisch und nomenklatorisch revidiert. Als Ergebnisse dieser Revision werden hier neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen vorgeschlagen, meistens auf Grund einer neuen taxonomischen Bewertung der studierten Taxa (oft wegen einer engeren Auffassung der Gattungsklassifikationseinheit). Folgende Gattungen, gewhnlich in der modernen Taxonomie nicht angewendet, sind in dieser Studie angenommen: Aegonychon S. F. Gray (Lithospermum L. p.p.), Anemonoides Mill. (Anemone L. p.p.), Calathiana Delarbre (Gentiana L. p.p.), Calcitrapoides Fabr. (Centaurea L. p.p.), Ciminalis Adans. (Gentiana L. p.p.), Colobium Roth (Leontodon L. p.p.), Duschekia Opiz (Alnus Mill. p.p.), Pistolochia Bernh. (Corydalis Vent. p.p.), Psyllium Mill. (Plantago L. p.p.), Tephroseris (Reichenb.) Reichenb. (Senecio L. p.p.), Virga Hill (Dipsacus L. p.p.), Xanthoxalis Small (Oxalis L. p.p.). Der Name Anemonastrum Holub (Anemone L. p.p.) wird als ein Ersatzname fr Homalocarpus (DC.) Schur wegen seiner Homonymie vorgeschlagen; Bromopsis Fourr. tritt statt Zerna auct., Helminthotheca Zinn statt Helminthia Gaertn.  Conygeron Holub wird als ein Name fr die Bezeichnung der Hybridisierungsprodukte zwischen den Gattungen Conyza L. und Erigeron L. vorgeschlagen. Manche von den neuen Kombinationen entstanden als Resultate der nderung des taxonomischen Ranges. nderungen der Namen, die nur durch nomenklatorische Grnde motiviert wrden (mit Ausschluss der Kombinationen mit den Gattungsnamen Bromopsis und Calathiana, die aber auch nur zum Teil nomenklatorisch begrndet werden) sind sehr selten in dieser Studie. Der Gattungsname Aegonychon S. F. Gray 1821 wird mit der Art Lithospermum purpurocaeruleum L. typisiert und stellt daher einen Typonym von Margarospermum (Reichenb.) Opiz 1839 dar. Zerna Panzer 1814 umfasst den Holotypus von Vulpia Gmel. 1806 - Festuca myurus L. - und ist daher ein illegitimer Name, der mit der Typus-Art von Vulpia Gmel. 1806 typisiert werden muss. Bromopsis Fourr. 1869 ist der korrekte Name fr die Gattung, die gewhnlich unter dem Namen Zerna angegeben wird. Calathiana Delarbre (gegrndet auf Gentiana nivalis L.) wie auch Ciminalis Adans. (die Artengruppe von Gentiana acaulis L. s.l.) sind vom taxonomischen Gesichtspunkt aus von den anderen Gruppen der Gattung Gentiana gut abgegrenzt und stellen sehr natrliche Verwandtschaftskreise in Gentiana L. s. l. vor. Der Name Calathiana Delarbre 1800 muss den Namen Hippion F. W. Schmidt 1794 (taxonomisch sehr uneinheitliches Taxon) ersetzen, weil er auch die Typus-Art eines lteren Gattungsnamen Tretorrhiza Adans. 1763 einschliesst. Ciminalis Adans. 1763 war in seiner originalen Auffassung sehr unnatrlich vom taxonomischen Gesichtspunkt aus; auf Grund der Einschrnkungsmethode wird Ciminalis Adans. mit der Art Gentiana acaulis L. typisiert und muss den Namen "Ericoila", der manchmal fr die hier behandelte Gattung angewendet wurde, ersetzen. 
4181462|Plants have three basic means of reproduction, by outcrossing, by selfing, and asexually. In most plant populations, at least two and often all three of these options are everpresent, so that individuals adopt mixed mating strategies at evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) threshholds. Because mating systems are genetically controlled and affect genotype structure, they are liable to feedback. Productive habitats with a large standing crop are more likely to favour outcrossing, while unproductive habitats may favour asexuality or selfing, so that mating systems may change through seral development, even within the same species. Outcrossing tends to break up linkage disequilibria, but may also favour the creation of adaptive linkage groups. Mechanisms whereby male sexual selection, small population size and selfing can influence the genetic structure of populations are examined.
4181394|Variance deficit in richness is not reliable evidence for niche limitation. The main problem is the effect of limitation to individual plant module packing at small quadrat sizes, though environmental and historical patchiness can also confound the results unless patch models are used. More reliable approaches to community structure (assembly rules) are those that take into account the characters of the species - guild proportionality, texture convergence and limiting similarity tests. A informally Bayesian approach to community structure is advocated, accepting that some hypotheses have greater prior probability, such as module-packing limitations, but using all the evidence available to estimate the likelihood of all the ecological hypotheses. The problem of environmental patchiness can be largely overcome by patch models. These models also overcome the problem of spatial autocorrelation, because they are conservative in such situations. For guild proportionality analyses, the possibility of sampling bias is a particular problem; this should be borne in mind during sampling, and checks made for the possibility in analyses. In devising Monte Carlo tests for community structure, permutation tests (i.e. randomisation tests, using sampling without replacement) are theoretically and practically preferable to bootstrap tests (i.e. using sampling with replacement). The best test is the simplest one that incorporates the intended null model and uses the intended test statistic. Experiments have intuitive appeal, but field experiments have several severe drawbacks, including the inevitability of artefacts, and insoluble problems of when to record. In practice, field experiments have told us surprisingly little about community structure.
4180984|In seven meadow stands of natural hydroseres the average total underground biomass ranged from 1.6 to
4179593|The author describes 5 new species (Brunfelsia Acunae, Coccocypselum glaberrimum, Dioscorea montecristina, Ipomoea montecristina and Pavonia lagunarum), 1 subspecies (Fleuria cuneata subsp. horrida), 4 varieties and 2 forms from Cuba, publishes some new combinations and refers on 6 species new for Cuba.
4179654|An idea is given of consortia, that is of elementary units of biocoenoses composed of single species of autotrophic plants and organisms intimately connected with them, chiefly heterotrophs. The dependence of different forms of interrelations between plants and organisms consortially connected with them is discussed.
4179907| The growth rate of stand biomass, the seasonal development of vertical stand structure and accumulation of mineral nutrients were compared in two Phrogmites ecotypes; the stands occur in two different biotopes, littoral and limosal, situated in the littoral of the Opatovick fishpond in the South Bohemian fishpond basin. Microclimatological data including incoming global radiation were recorded in both biotopes during three growing seasons. The differences in morphological, chemical and production characteristics of the two reed ecotypes were in good relation with the edaphic, hydrochemical and microclimatological characteristics of their biotopes. These differences are reflected in a higher leaf area index, denser stand, higher production parameters and a higher efficiency in the conversion of solar energy in the limosal reed ecotype as compared with the littoral population. The differences in annual production and in energy conversion have not changed within seven growing seasons. 
4179569| The nomenclatural validity of the names published in Fabricius's work "Enumeration methodica plantarum horti medici helmstadiensis" has been revised, with special reference to those of monotypic genera. The arguments for recognizing these names as validly published are given, and also reasons for regarding them as unitary designations of species. After consideration of all the arguments the author is convinced that the names in question are not validly published generic names as they are to be regarded as uninomial designations of species. Special attention is given to the name Lamiastrum Heister ex Fabricius (1759), which has recently been adopted as the correct name for the genus generally known as Galeobdolon Adans. 1763, but is here regarded as not validly published. As the name Galeobdolon Adans. itself may not necessarily be regarded as legitimate on account of the inclusion of the type species of the name Galeopsis L. 1753 in the circumscription of the genus, the author here makes a proposal for the conservation of this name which has been so often used in botanical literature. The genus Galeobdolon is considered to be represented only by one aggregate with three species, the names of which are critically revised. For the diploid species occurring in the East Alps a new nemenclatural combination is proposed - Galeodolon flavidum (Hermann) Holub - and Hudson's concept of the type species of the name Galedobdolon has to be amended by a restriction. In an Appendix the results are given of a short revision of the so-called "generic" names in Fabricius's work, with suggestions for further detailed investigation. At the same time some amendments to the List of "Nomina generica conservanda" are proposed, and attention is drawn to the necessity for certain changes in the citations of some generic names commonly taken up from Fabricius's work. /// Die nomenklatorische Gltigkeit der im Werke,,Enumeratio methodica plantarum hortimedici helmstadiensis, ed. 1., (1759); ed. 2., (1763)" vom Fabricius verffentlichten Gattungsnamen, hauptschlich der Namen der monotypischen Gattungen, wurde einer grndlichen Revision unterzogen; es werden nicht nur solche Grnde vorgebracht, die die nomenklatorische Gltigkeit dieser Namen als Gattungsnamen besttigen knnen, sondern auch Grnde, die ihre nomenklatorische Ungltigkeit als Gattungsnamen verlsslich beweisen. Fr die Mglichkeit der Annahme solcher Namen als berechtigte Gattungsnamen knnen folgende Grnde sprechen: der Schriftsatz des Textes des erwhnten Buches; analoge typographische Schriftart des angenommenen Namens und des in seiner Synonymik angefhrten Gattungsnamens; Angabe des Gattungsnamens in der Synonymik des angenommenen Namens der Pflanze; Anfhren nur des Gattungsnamens in der Synonymik des angenommenen Namens der Pflanze (diese Praxis kann aber auch logischerweise ein Argument gegen die Gltigkeit solcher Namen sein); Bentzung des Terminus,,Gattung" in Heister's Arbeiten (L. Heister war ein Vorgnger von Fabricius in Helmstadt, an dessen Ansichten Fabricius anknpfte); Mflichkeit der Bentzung eines solchen Gattungsnamens in der polynomischen Bezeichnung einer Art, welche mit der vom betreffenden Autor angenommenen Gattungsbezeichnung nicht identisch sein muss (jm Sinne der von Heister aufgestellten nomenklatorischen Regeln). Dagegen bestehen fr den Charakter der behandelten Namane als uninominale Bezeichnungsweisen der Arten Folgende Grnde: Teilung der,,Gattungen" unmittelbar in Varietten; unmittelbare Identifizierung des Gattungsnamens mit dem Names der Art; Bezeichnung der Art auf der Bildtafel mit einem uninominalen Namen (bei Heister); Anfhren der Artensynonymen bei den Gattungsnamen; einreihung des Gattungsnamens in die Synonymik des angenommenen Namens der Art; Anfhren der erst angefhrten Art (oder der,,Typus-Art") der mehrere Arten umfassenden Gattung mit einer uninominalen Bezeichnung; Angabe von blossen,,Gattungsnamen" zusammen mit den Arten in der Liste kultivierter Pflanzen; Bentzung des Terminus Art" im Falle eines,,Gattungsnamesn"; das fast vollkommene Weglassen des Terminus,,Gattung" durch Fabricius in seinem ganzem Werke. Nach der Gegenberstellung der angefhrten Grnde und bei gleichzeitiger Erwgung der Probleme der Gltigkeit der uninominalen Bezeichnungsweisen bei denjenigen Autoren, die die binomische Nomenklatur nicht angenommen haben, und auch in Hinsicht auf die Regeln des Kodes scheinen die Grnde, die die behandelten Namen als uninominale Bezeichnungsweisen der Arten im Werke von Fabricius besttigen, unmittelbarer, konkreter, klarer und erweislicher zu sein als die Grnde fr die Auffassung solcher Namen als nomenklatorisch gltig verffentlichten Gattungsnamen; die Grnde fr eine solche Auffassung sind eher andeutend als erweislich. Der Hauptgrund fr eine solche auffassung sind eher andeutend als erweislich. Der Hauptgrund fr eine solche Auffassung sind eher andeutend als erweislich. der Hauptgrund fr die Ungltigkeit der behandelten Namen liegt in einer nicht ganz klaren Unterscheidung zwinschen den Rangstufen der GAttung und der Art bei den Taxa der monotypischen Gattungen und oft auch bei den,,Typus-Arten" der mehrere arten umfassenden Gattungen. Auf Grund dieser Ansicht und auch auf Grund der speziellen Analyse der Verffentlichung des Namens Lamiastrum Heister ex Fabricius 1759 ist es ntig auch diesen Namen als ungltig verffentlicht zu betrachten. Der Name Galeobdolon Adans. 1763, welcher bisher fast ausschliesslich fr die behandelte Gattung bentzt wurde, weist einen gewissen Mangel auf, weil er in der ursprnglichen Abgrenzung auch die Typus-Art der Gattung Galeopsis L. einschliesst, wenn auch durch Anfhren eines ungltigen Namens. In Hinsicht auf diese Tatsache, sowie auch mit Bercksichtigung dessen, dass bisher keine einheitliche Ansicht zu den uninominalen Bezeichnungsweisen der kurz nach der Einfhrung der Linn'schen binomischen Nomenklatur folgenden Periode, und speziell zu den Namen von Fabricius unter den Botanikern besteht, betrachte ich es als geeignet, den Namen Galeobdolon Adans. 1763 mit der Typus-Art Galeopsis galeobdolon L. 1753 als einen geschtzten Namen gegenber Lamiastrum Heister ex Fabricius 1759, bzw. Lamiastrum Ehrendorf. et Polatschek f1966 vorzuschlagen. Die Gattung Galeobdolon Adans. umfasst nur eine einzige Kollktivart mit drei Kleinarten, von denen zwei primre diploide Typen - G. luteum und G. flavidum - durch Divergenzerscheinungen voneinander gut unterscheidbar wurden; vom Gesichtspunkte der morphologischen Unterscheidbarkeit werden sie jedoch durch die Existenz von der tetrapoloiden, mit grsster Wahrscheinlichkeit aus ihnin entstandenen allopolyploiden Art G. montanum genhert. Bei richtiger Benennug der Art G. luteum ist es ntig die ursprngliche Auffassung dieser Art von Hudson durch eine Verengung (Restriktion) aur die Auffassung des Taxons Pollichia vulgaris Pers. 1795 zu emendieren; fr die zweite in den Ostalpen heimische diploide Art wird in der Gattung Galeobdolon Adans. in der Rangstufe der Art eine neue nomenklatorische Kombination - Galeobdolon flavidum (Hermann) Holub - vorgeschlagen. Die Studie schliesst mit einem Anhang (Appendix), in welchem die Ergebnisse einer kurzen Revision der im Werke von Fabricius angefhrten Namen mitgeteilt werden. Diese untersuchten Namen wurden in einige (8) Gruppen eingeteilt; die grsste Gruppe enthlt eingliedrige Artennamen, die Fabricius von Heister bernommen hat. die Gattungsnamen, die zusammen mit einer Beschreibung direkt im Werke vom Fabricius gltig verffentlicht wurden. findet man nur sehr selten; einige der Namen wird man noch im Hinblick auf die Mglichkeit der Feststellung ihrer Gltigkeit auf Grund eines indirekten Hinweises auf eine frher verffentlichte Gattungsbeschreibung mit der Hilfe des Zitierens des Autornamens oder seiner Abkrzung revidieren mssen. Im einklang mit den Bemerkungen von Rauschert schlgt der Autor bestimmte Korrekturen in der Liste der geschtzten Namen im Kode vor, weil dort manche Namen aus dem Werke von Fabricius hauptschlich als verworfene Namen, seltener aber auch als geschtzte Namen angegeben werden, auch wenn dies in Hinsicht auf ihren Charakter als uninominale Bezeichnungsweisen der Arten nicht berechtigt ist. Weiter informiert der Autor ber notwendige nderungen in den Literaturzitaten einiger oft gebraucter Gattungsnamen, die von der Annahme des uninominalen Bezeichnungsweisecharakters der grssten Zahl der im Werke von Fabricius verffentlichten,, Gattungsnamen" ausgehen. 
4181031|Up-to-date crop production concentrates on the maximisation of plant matter production, both by optimum utilization of solar energy by plants and by the application of additional energy. Therefore a natural strategy is being developed aimed at combining the physiological functions of the assimilation organs with their external shaping and strengthening their variety in space and area. As demonstrated by many deposition studies, this effect is contradictory to the factors conditioning the low deposition capacity of plant covers. A high level of particle, gas and solution deposition increases the danger of food chain contamination and has a negative impact on plant production. Data concentrated on transport values of pollutants and their long-term dynamics in stands could be used for the selection of ideal crop types; therefore every effort should be directed towards selection and breeding.
4180118| A comparative review of the elementary chemical composition of aquatic vascular plants is presented together with the author's own results. Attention is focussed on the specific genotypic, onthogenetic and between-organs variability of the selective uptake and accumulation of mineral ions in macrophytes in relation to trophic conditions of habitat. The concentration factors and atomic ratios are also considered. Numerical tables presenting comparative data are arranged alphabetically according to plant species, with indications of geographical situation, phenology, part of plant tissues analyzed, nutrient status in biotopes and appropriate bibliography. /// 1. Die gegenwrtigen Kenntnisse vom Gehalt der Mineralstoffe, ihren Kreislauf und Haushalt in hheren Wasserpflanzen wurden mit Rcksicht auf die stnding steigende Eutrophierung sowohl der aquatischen Biotopen als auch der "Wetlands" revidiert und zusammengefasst. Eine Datenbank der Angaben ber die chemische Zusammensetzung der Wasserpflanzen und ihre Akkumulationskapazitt scheint hchs notwendig zu sein, um eine intensive kosystemuntersuchung und - bewirtschaftung zu ermglichen. Will man jedoch einzelne nummerische Werte vergleichen, die von verschiedenen Autoren an unterschiedlichen Standorten bei verschiedenen Wasserpflanzen festgestellt wurden, dann mssen auch die Ursachen von sowohl realen als auch nur scheinbaren Differenzen und Schwankungen bercksichtigt werden, wie z. B.: a) Fehler und Schwankungen der Extraktions- und Analysemethoden per se. b) Die Variabilitt in der chemischen Zusammensetzung, verursacht durch Alter, Phenophase und Art des analysierten pflanzlichen Organs, die wieder mit der interspezifischen Variabilitt und der chemischen Standortsdiversitt interferiert (Tab. 1 und 2) Die bekannte Saisonalitt der Ionenfluktuation in einer Population wurde in der vorliegenden bersicht mit eigenen Ergebnissen aber auch mit manchen, von anderen Forschern publizierten Angaben dokumentiert (Tab. 3, Abb.1). c) Die infraspezifische Variabilitt verschiedener Formen, kotypen oder Klonen muss ebenfalls bercksichtigt werden. d) Die kologische Differenzierung, verursacht durch verschiedene chemischen Standortsmerkmale, wird durch Angaben in Tab. 4 illustriert. Die in der Natur gefundenen chemischen Beziehungen wurden durch chemische Analysen von Pflanzen besttigt, die in experimentalen hydroponischen Anlagen in Nhrlsungen kultiviert wurden (Tab. 5). 2. Die selektive Ionenaufnahme gegen dem Konzentrationsgradient und in Beziehung zu anderen Ionen wurde zusammengefasst und an Beispielen demonstriert (Tab. 9. und Abb. 3). 3. Die in der Literatur fr verschiedene Pflanzenarten und Ionen angegebenen Konzentrationsfaktoren (Tab. 6-8, 10, 11) wurden im Zusammenhang mit ihrem Indikationswert fr die chemische Charakteristik des Wassers und der Bodensedimente diskutiert. 4. Die Ionenkonzentration im metabolisch aktiven Pflanzengewebe - die ursprngliche Lundegrd'sche Methode der Blattanalyse bei den Landpflanzen - gentzt als Wasserqualittsindikator (bioassay), wurde ebenfalls besprochen. 5. Es wurde auch die Nhrstoffbilanz im Mineralkreislauf der Wasser- und Wetlandskosysteme und die Ausntzung der Akkumulationskapazitt einiger Arten von hheren Wasserpflanzen fr die Nhrstoffbeseitigung aus den Abwssern diskutiert. 6. Drei umfangreiche zusammenfassende Tabellen (13-15) enthalten die von mehreren Autoren publizierten vergleichenden Angaben ber die chemische Zusammensetzung hherer Wasserpflanzen, zusammengestellt in Bezugnahme auf Standort, Zeit der Probenentnahme (Phenophase), auf analysiertes pflanzliches Organ und auf die chemische Standortscharakteristik. Die Tabellen sind alphabetisch nach den Pflanzennamen geordnet. 
4179481| General rules for the use of all kinds of association coefficients for the direct computation of mean similarity between sets of vegetational relevs are given in the present paper. In the table the main kinds of association coefficients used in plant sociology are listed according to Sokal and Sneath (1963) and the corresponding formulas for direct computation of the mean similarity between and within sets of relevs are given. 
4181017|Plants of Spirodela polyrrhiza, Lemna gibba, L. minor and L. minuscula were grown experimentally in nutrient media under various nutrient conditions involving different concentrations and forms of nitrogen and different concentrations of phosphorus. The treatments affected the multiplication rate of the plants, their root length and formation of anthocyanin and of turions.
4180839|Altogether 27 species and hybrids from a rhodological collection and wild populations showed obvious relationships between taxonomic allocation and amounts of ascorbic acid in mature hips.
4179630| The paper describes in quantitative terms the vegetative spreading of clones of Typha latifolia in natural conditions. The highest rates of the formation of new shoots during the growing season were recorded in the summer (July to early August) and in the autumn (September to October); this corresponds to the two maxima in the increments in rhizome biomass. The highest rate of expansion was observed in two-year clones in which the annual increment in the colony diameter amounted up to 4 m. The relations between the rhizome and shoot growth in one-year and two-year clones are also discussed and a brief comparison of the results with data found in fully developed stands is included. /// In dieser Arbeit wird die vegetative Ausbreitung der 1 bis 2jhrigen Klonen von Typha latifolia unter den natrlichen Bedingungen Sdmhrens (relativ warme Tiefebene Mitteleuropas) analysiert. Unsere Ergebnisse erlauben folgende Schlussfolgerungen auszusprechen: 1. Die neuen Sprosse der untersuchten Klonen wachsen ab Mai in krzeren Intervallen aus und auch ihre Lngenwachstum erfolgt rascher. Ab August dagegen - verzgert sich dieser Rhythmus (Abb. 3A, 5A). Der grsste Zuwachs neuer Sprosse fand von der zweiten Julihlfte bis Anfang August sowie in den Herbstmonaten statt. 2. Einer der wichtigsten Faktoren, die die Grsse der Jahresproduktion der Rhizome bestimmen, ist wahrscheinlich die Wachstumsgeschwindigkeit der schon im vorigen Jahr auswachsenden Sprosse der ersten Generation (diese blhen in der Regel im Laufe des zweiten Jahres). Der andere Faktor ist dann die Wachstumsgeschwindigkeit der zu Beginn der neuen Vegetationsperiode gebildeten Sprosse der zweiten Generation, die sich erheblich and der Bildung der Rhizome im Laufe der ganzen Vegetationsperiode beteiligen und die schon in der ersten Hlfte der Vegetationsperiode eine grosse Anzahl der rasch wachsenden Auslufer bilden. 3. Vom Standpunkt der Produktion im Laufe der Vegetationsperiode sind wahrscheinlich diese zwei wichtigsten Perioden zu erwgen: a) Die Sommerperiode (Ende Juni bis Anfang August) in der der grsste Zuwachs der Rhizombiomasse verzeichnet wird (Abb. 3B, B5), b) die Herbstperiode (Ende September bis Oktober), whrend der in den unterirdischen Organen eine grosse Verschiebung der Vorratsstoffe erfolgt. In der Herbstperiode bildet sich eine grosse Menge der berwinternden Knospen, die mit der Muttersprosse oft bloss nur durch einen kurzen, dicken Rhizom verbunden sind. Der Wechsel des kurzen und langen Rhizomzuwachses macht sich auf der horizontalen Struktur ("Pattern") des Typha latifolia-Bestandes bemerkbar. 4. Die Geschwindigkeit der Expansion von Typha latifolia ist durch den Charakter der Rhizomverzweigung dieser Art sowie die Zuwachsintensitt der Rhizommasse bestimmt. Der Koloniendurchmesser bei den einjhrigen und zweijhrigen Klonen war im Herbst ungefhr 3 m und 6 m, der Durchmesser bei dreijhrigen Klonen betrug im dritten Jahr zu Beginn des Sommers ungefhr 8 m (Abb. 11). 
4181106|The paper deals with the edaphic conditions of vegetation development on oligotrophic, wet alluvium. Field texture is of essential importance in the development of the mud vegetation of dwarf-plants. Soil consisting of a high proportion of small primary particles is able to store appropriate quantities of water, and transfers water to the plants with difficulty. Thus, the species which have adapted to these conditions have a competitive advantage over concurrent ones. The clay-rich soil hinders the availability of nitrogen. Hence, nitrophilous vegetation does not develop here. Due to the high adsorption capacity of the soil it may contain a large amount of available phosporus and potassium. The low osmotic activity of the soil is favourable for the development of the mud vegetation of dwarf-plants with a high cover degree.
4180457| The attention was focussed on the evaluation of the impact of trampling on autochtonous dwarf pine communities in the Tatra National Park (Vysok Tatry Mts.). Use was made of combined phytocoenological and production-ecological methods. Results are described and discussed according to floristic-phytocoenological analyses, production-ecological analyses and the basic parameters of total organic matter supply. 
4180713|Nigerian species of Portulaca: P. grandiflora Hooker, P. oleracea L. and P. quadrifida L. combine inbreeding, outbreeding and vegetative propagation in the wild and in the cultivation. Observations have shown that the anthers of Portulaca species dehisces before the flower bud opens, and are usually ripe at the time the stigmas are receptive. This enhances self-fertilization.
4179545| Diese Arbeit bringt Ergebnisse phytoznologisch-kologischer Forschungen der Waldgesellschaften NO-Bhmens, des am rechten Elbeufer zwischen Hradec Krlov-Mstec Krlov-Jin und Hoice gelegenen Gebietes. Folgende Syntaxa wurden untersucht: das Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957 mit fnf Subassoziationen (colchicetosum, typicum, primuletosum veris, luzuletosum albidae, molinietosum arundinaceae), das Potentillo albae-Quercetum Libb. 1933 (Ausbildungsform von Festuca heterophylla), das Luzulo albidae-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Pass. 1953 emend. R. et Z. Neuh. 1967 und das Molinio ar.-Quercetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1967 mit zwei Varianten (typische Var., Var. von Sphagnum). Eine besondere Aufmerksamkeit wurde den Standortsverhltnissen der unterschiedenen Syntaxa (bes. den physikalischen und chemischen Bodeneigenschaften) gewidmet. /// This paper gives the results of phytocoenologic-ecological research of forest communities from the territory of Northeast Bohemia (cf. Fig. 1). In this territory the following communities have been described: 1. the Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957, divided into five subassociations: the G. - C. colchicetosum (Mikyka 1947) comb. n., bound only to heavy alluvial Mullgley soils influenced by groundwater, the G. - C. typicum Oberd. 1957 with two lower units - the form rich and poor in species of Fagetalia, the G. - C. primuletosum veris (Klika 1932) Z. Neuh. 1964, occurring only on soils of rich calcareous substrata of Braune Rendzina, and the oligotrophic subassociations, the G. - C. luzuletosum albidae Oberd. 1967 and G. - C. molinietosum arundinaceae (Schlenker 1940) Oberd. 1967, 2. the Potentillo albae-Quercetum Libbert 1933 (the form with Festuca heterophylla), bound mostly on heavy soils of Pseudogley influenced by standing water, rarely Rendzina types on calcareous substrata, 3. the Luzulo albidae-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Pass. 1953 emend. R. et Z. Neuh. 1967 (in the typical subassociation), occurring on sandy soils of the Podsol-Braunerde type, relatively poor in nutrients, 4. the Molinio arundinaceae-Quercetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1967 (subass. populetosum tremulae R. et Z. Neuh. 1967) with two lower units, the typical variant and the variant with Sphagnum, which appears on wet soils of Parabraunerde-Pseudogley or Pseudogley types. The results of physical and chemical soil analyses of the forest communities studied are discussed in detail and the cause of the habitat convergency of different vegetational units is explained. 
4181025| The montane Nardus-rich acidophilous meadows occurring in the Krkonoe and W. Carpathians Mts. were evaluated. They are classified into Nardo-Agrostion tenuis Sillinger 1933. Five associations were distinguished: Sileno-Nardetum, Homogyno-Nardetum, Hieracio lachenalii-Nardetum, Phleo alpini-Nardetum, and Ranunculo nemorosi-Nardetum, the first occurring in the Krkonoe Mts., the others in the W. Carpathians. 
4179750| Es werden folgende drei neue Arten der Gyalectaceae sensu amplo aus Neu-Guinea beschrieben und abgebildet: Dimerella weberi Vzda sp.n., Gloeolecta minutissima Vzda sp.n. und Gyalidea novaeguineae P. James et Vzda sp.n. Die taxonomische Stellung der neuen Arten innerhalb der Gattungen wird kurz behandelt. /// In a collection of Gyalectaceae sensu amplo from New Guinea three new species were found which are described here; Dimerella weberi which differs from all hitherto known species of this genus by its conspicuously big spores; Gloeolecta minutissima, whose apothecia are much smaller than those in the two species of this genus known until now; Gyalidea novaeguineae, which differs from most relative species by the black-bordered margin of the apothecia.-The type material is preserved in the herbarium of Colorado University (COLO) and in the British Museum (BM). 
4179622| Chromosome counts of the following 15 taxa are given: Eupatorium cannabinum, Gypsophila fastigiata, Helianthemum grandiflorum subsp. obscurum, Helictotrichon desertorum subsp. basalticum, Impatiens parviflora, Inula hirta, Jurinea mollis, Kernera saxatilis, Lembotropis nigricans subsp. nigricans, Malva alcea subsp. excisa, Myosotis nemorosa, Otites pseudotites subsp. cuneifolia, Plantago atrata subsp. carpatica, P. atrata subsp. sudetica, Poa badensis. The chromosome numbers of Helictotrichon desertorum (as subsp. basalticum) and Plantago atrata subsp. sudetica are given for the first time. Chromosome numbers differing from those previously known were found in Jurinea mollis (2n = 34 as compared to 2n = 30) and Kernera saxatilis (2n = 14 as compared to 2n = 16). Rhodax Spach (= Helianthemum L. p. p.) and Otites Adans. (= Silene L. p. p.) are considered as separate genera. Remarks on taxonomy, nomenclature and chorology are given for most of the taxa. /// In diesem Beitrag werden folgende 15 Taxa hherer Pflanzen der tschechoslowakischen Flora behandelt, deren Chromosomenzahlen bestimmt wurden: Eupatorium cannabinum L., Gypsophila fastigiata L., Helianthemum grandiflorum (Scop.) DC. subsp. obscurum (Wahlenb.) Holub, Helictotrichon desertorum (Less.) Nvskij subsp. basalticum (Podp.) Holub, Impatiens parviflora DC., Inula hirta L., Jurinea mollis (Torn.) Reichenb., Kernera saxatilis (L.) Reichenb., Lembotropis nigricans (L.) Griseb. subsp. nigricans, Malva alcea L. subsp. excisa (Reichenb.) Holub, Myosotis nemorosa Bess., Otites pseudotites (Reichenb.) Klokov subsp. cuneifolia (Raf.) Holub, Plantago atrata Hoppe subsp. carpatica (So) So, P. atrata Hoppe subsp. sudetica (Pilger) Holub und Poa badensis Haenke. Die Angaben ber die Chromosomenzahlen werden mit Bemerkungen ber die karyologischen Verhltnisse, bzw. auch mit Bemerkungen ber die taxonomische, nomenklatorische und chorologische Probleme ergnzt. I. Karyologische Ergebnisse 1. Zum erstenmal wurden die Chromosomenzahlen bei Helictotrichon desertorum (als subsp. basalticum) - 2n = 14, und bei Plantago atrata subsp. sudetica - 2n = 24, bestimmt. 2. Abweichende Chromosomenzahlen wurden bei Jurinea mollis (2n = 34 - bis jetzt 2n = 30) und bei Kernera saxatilis (2n = 14 - bis jetzt 2n = 16) festgestellt. 3. Die Chromosomenzahlen einiger weiteren Taxa sind vorlufig angegeben: Myosotis laxiflora Reichenb., 2n = 66; M. palustris (L.) Nathh., 2n = 66; Poa crassipes Domin ex ourek, 2n = 14; Rhodax rupifragus (Kern.) Holub, 2n = 22, and cca 30-33. 4. Eine kritische bersicht der bisher bekannten Chromosomenzahlen der europischen Arten der Gattung Helictotrichon Bess. restr. Holub wird gegeben. II. Taxonomische Ergebnisse 1. Auf Grund der morphologischen Unterschiedlichkeit, die mit einer karyologischen Differenzierung verbunden ist, wurde Helianthemum subg. Plectolobum als eine selbstndige Gattung Rhodax Spach aufgefasst. 2. Auf Grund einer selbstndigen mikrophylogenetischen Stellung der Gruppe der Arten des Silene otites-Komplexes in der Gattung Silene L. wird diese Gruppe als eine Gattung Otites Adans. betrachtet. 3. Bei Gypsophila fastigiata wurde auf die bisher nicht beachtete taxonomische Bedeutung der Merkmale der Samenschale hingewiesen. 4. Die zu breit aufgefasste Art Helianthemum nummularium (L.) Mill. wird auf Grund der unterschiedlichen Behaarungsart der Blattunterseite in zwei Arten - H. nummularium (L.) Mill. s.s. und H. grandiflorum (Scop.) DC. ampl. Holub geteilt. 5. Ein Bestimmungsschlssel der tschechoslowakischen Arten des Myosotis palustris-Umkreises ist beigegeben. Die Chromosomenzahl von Myosotis nemorosa 2n = 22 deutet berzeugend auf die spezifische Verschiedenheit dieses Taxons von den brigen weit verbreiteten Taxa des Myosotis palustris-Komplexes hin. 6. Die Sudeten-Mikropopulation von Plantago atrata wird als eine Unterart angenommen. Dieses Taxon reprsentiert einen weiteren Stenoendemiten der Flora des Hohen Gesenkes. Bemerkungen ber die Taxonomie wurden noch bei folgenden Arten hinzugefgt: Gypsophila fastigiata, Helictotrichon desertorum, Jurinea mollis, Kernera saxatilis, Lembotropis nigricans, Malva alcea und Otites pseudotites. III. Nomenklatorische Ergebnisse 1. Eine umfangreiche Revision der Arten- und Unterartennamen des Umkreises von Helianthemum nummularium wurde durchgefhrt und gltige Namen beider in diesen Umkreis angenommenen Arten wurden festgesetzt. Der richtige Name fr Helianthemum ovatum Dun. s.l. ist H. grandiflorum (Scop.) DC. ampl. Holub. 2. Die Synonymik der Art Myosotis nemorosa Bess. s.l. wurde durch weitere Synonyme ergnzt. Anmerkungen zur Nomenklatur der tschechoslowakischen Vertreter der Gattung Otites Adans. sind im Text ber die Art Otites pseudotites enthalten. IV. Chorologische Ergebnisse 1. Myosotis nemorosa Bess. s.l. wird in Europa auch aus Jugoslawien, der europischen Trkei, Luxemburg, Schweden und dem russischen Lapplande angegeben. 2. Es wurde auf das Vorkommen der pontischen Art Gypsophila collina Ser. in Siebenbrgen hingewiesen, die in Rumnien vieleicht vollkommen die Art G. fastigiata L. vertritt. Bemerkungen ber die Chorologie wurden weiter den Texten ber Impatiens parviflora, Jurinea mollis und Plantago atrata beigefgt. 
4180501| Man made stands with Pinus nigra Arn. were studied on limestone bedrock. They were planted out on biotops of previous calciphilous beech or xerothermophilous oak forests. The analysis of present phytocenological composition and the changes in ecological conditions, especially of nitrogen content in the soil, conduce to their classification, following the conception of Hada and Sofron (1980), as a new euhemerobic forest community, association Clematidi vitalbae-culti-Pinetum nigrae. 
4181547|A syntaxonomic revision of vegetation of anthropogenic metalliferous habitats (mine spoils of lead, zinc and copper mining) in the Eastern Alps (Austria, Germany, Italy and Slovenia) was made. The communities studied belong to the Thlaspietea rotundifolii (Linaria alpina-Cerastium uniflorum comm., Papaveri kerneri-Thlaspietum kerneri, Violetum dubyanae, Thlaspietum cepaeifolii, Thlaspietum rotundifolii, Scrophulario juratensis-Erysimetum sylvestris, Minuartia gerardii-Silene glareosa comm., Epipactido atrorubentis-Silenetum glareosae and Sileno alpestris-Moehringietum muscosae) and to the Asplenietea trichomanis (Sileno rupestris-Asplenietum). There is neither floristic support nor syntaxonomic justification for the concepts of the Galio anisophylli-Minuartion vernae, the Violetalia calaminariae and the Violetea calaminariae in the Eastern Alps. These units should be included within the Thlaspion rotundifolii, Thlaspietalia rotundifolii and Thlaspietea rotundifolii, respectively.
4181488|A critical species of the European flora, Allium fuscum Waldst. & Kit., belonging to A. sect. Codonoprasum Rchb., is investigated. The species was previously confused with other taxa of the A. paniculatum group, but on the basis of herbarium and field investigations A. fuscum is a rare chasmophyte, distributed in Romania and Bulgaria. The description, chromosome number (2n=16), taxonomy, chorology and ecology are provided. The relationships of this species with some related taxa of the A. paniculatum group are also examined.
4179683|New nomenclatural combinations are proposed for species of the following genera: Acosta Adans. (37), Colymbada Hill em. Holub (44), Cyanus Mill. (2) and Jacea Mill. (3), altogether 86 new combinations.
4179829| Beim Studium der Keimungskologie von Cerinthe minor L. wurde ein neuer Typ der Heteromerikarpie festgestellt. Im Schizokarpium dieser Art werden 2 Typen der Merikarpien gebildet. Der erste Typ entsteht aus dem ganzen Fruchtblatt, ist zweifcherig und zweisamig. Der zweite Typ einfcherig und einsamig, entsteht aus einer Hlfte des Fruchtblattes. Beide Typen sind morphologisch leicht zu unterscheiden. Vom Gesichtspunkt der Keimungskologie verhalten sich beide Typen gleichartig. 
4181008|The rate of individual development and biomass of two subpopulations of Potamogeton pectinatus were measured in the heated and cool zones of the Patnowskie Lake in central Poland. P. pectinatus from the heated zone terminated its vegetation six days earlier than individuals from the cool zone. The rate of plant development and individual plant size from both stands were compared during their whole seasonal life cycle. At the final stage of development, the individuals from the heated zone were smaller than those from the cool zone. The data obtained from the measurements were treated by statistical analysis using the MANOVATEST.
4179489|Carex bigelowii complex is a group of taxa distributed over the whole Arctic region and in the mountains of the temperate zone. The species was described from the White Mountains in the eastern part of USA. The plants from Central Europe, the British Isles and Fennoscandinavian mountains differ from the plants of the typelocality in a number of characters, especially in the character of the inflorescence. On the basis of these differences the European plants represent a new taxon which is described as Carex bigelowii Torr. ex Schweinitz subsp. nardeticola Holub, subsp. nova. Very closely related plants to the new taxon are known from Central Siberia and from the Arctic region.
4181301|"Vegetation Structure and Species Co-existence" was the topic of a symposium organized in 1992, in Tartu, Estonia. The symposium was dedicated to the memory of Professor Teodor Lippmaa (1892-1943), who made important contributions, especially to the concept of synusia in community ecology. Current views on relation between vegetation structure and species co-existence vary. This variation is partly due to the traditional opposite views of plant community structure (the individualistic and organismic concept); these views refer both to the strength and role of biotic interactions within a community, and to the community structure.
4180986|Two Chenopodium species (C. album L., C. suecicum J. Murr) were grown under field conditions with sugar beet to assess the weed-caused crop loss, and with spring wheat in a replacement series experiment. The weeds strongly reduced the growth of sugar beet. Dew's competition indexes for the regressions of sugar beet yield on weed density were 6.81 and 3.78 for C. suecicum and C. album respectively. On the other hand, the yield of spring wheat was not affected by the two Chenopodium species owing to early shading of the weeds by the faster growing crop stand.
4179788| Auf Grund der pflanzensoziologischen Materiale aus NW-Bhmen wurde eine neue Calthion-Assoziation, u. zw. das Polygono-Cirsietum palustris beschrieben. Diese Assoziation ist in Bhmen und W-Mhren vorwiegend an hhere Lagen der aus Gesteinen des Kristallinikums gebildeten herzynischen Gebirge gebunden. In niedrigeren Lagen kommt es unter analogen Bedingungen oft zur Ausbildung des Angelico-Cirsietum palustris Darimont 1941. Syngenetisch knpft das Polygono-Cirsietum palustris an die Nasswiesen (Carici-Agrostetum Oberd. 1951 und Pediculari-Juncetum filiformis Preisg. apud Tx. 1947) an. Es handelt sich wohl um eine geographische Vikariante der aus NW-Europa beschriebenen Bromus racemosus-Senecio aquaticus Ass. Tx. in Tx. et Prsg. 1951. /// The present communication describes a new association - Polygono-Cirsietum palustris. In N. W. Bohemian highlands, formed by silicate rocks, this association occurs from the colline to the montane belts, where it is found on the bottom of valleys and over wet slopes, which are often irrigated by springs. Polygono-Cirsietum palustris has also been observed in N.E. Bohemia (sporadic occurrence in areas rich in rainfall and poor in nutrients) and in the Novohradsk hory Mts., S. Bohemia (D. Blakov). Besides, the community has been studied in the drsk vrchy, the northern part of the Bohemian-Moravian Highlands where the continuous area of distribution of this association probably reaches its utmost limit. In the southern part of the Bohemian-Moravian Highlands and in N.E. Bohemia, an allied association, viz. Angelico-Cirsietum palustris Darimont 1941, occurs in analogous habitats. Polygono-Cirsietum palustris and Angelico-Cirsietum palustris are syngenetically closely linked with plant communities of the alliance Caricion fuscae. Both of them show, however, a higher representation of various species of the order Molinietalia, class Molinio-Arrhenatheretea, and order Nardetalia (alliance Violion caninae), and contain other less moisture-demanding species. The two associations described obviously represent a geographical vicariant of Senecio aquaticus-Bromus racemosus-ass., described in N. W. Germany and distributed in the Atlantic and Sub-atlantic regions of Western and Central Europe. Tabs 1 and 2 contain more detailed data on the species composition of Polygono-Cirsietum palustris from N.W. Bohemia, and also a comparison of relevs of this association recorded in various regions, as well as its relation to Angelico-Cirsietum palustris. 
4180032| In the Broumov basin, NE. Bohemia, in all thirteen ruderal plant associations and several not fully identified communities were observed. The following associations: Chamaeplietum officinalis (Sisymbrion), Urtco-Artemisietum vulgaris, Artemisio-Melilotetum albae (both Arction lappae), Aegopodio-Geranietum pratensis, Agropyro-Urticetum dioicae (both Aegopodiom podagrariae), and Sambuco-Salicetum capreae are described as new. The syntaxonomy of the communities with dominating Petasites hybridus is more thoroughly discussed. 
4180299| A new endemic genus, the Aristopsis gen. nov., collected in sandy savannahs of Pinar del Ro Province, Cuba, with two species is described. It is possible that it is phylogenetically related to Aristida L. 
4179594|69 new names are proposed, viz. for 1 genus (Danthoniastrum), 1 subgenus, 1 section, 37 species, 28 subspecies and 1 variety. Most of the new names refer to Otites (10), Helictotrichon (3), Helianthemum grandiflorum (3), Plantago atrata (3), Rhodax (19) and Zerna (17).
4180197|It is suggested that communities of cultivated forests can be incorporated into the system of "natural" wood communities either as facies, variants or subassociations, if they differ below the association level; if they differ on the association level, a new association is suggested, with the prefix "culti-" before the planted dominant tree species. Most of our planted forest communities differ on the level of association or less; the communities of Robinia are the exception. The authors agree with Jurko (1963) in classifying them as individual associations, alliances, order and class.
4180399|This taxonomic revision is based on methods explained in the general part. The author's collections and material from Czechoslovak herbaria were the essential matter for this study. Descriptions of all European species have been completed or precised and keys to their determination have been added. Substantial taxonomic changes were made in the species parasiting on host plants of the genus Potentilla. The author distinguished 11 Peronospora-species on Rosaceae, 3 species were found as new for Czechoslovakia.
4180090|Karyotypic formulae of the Scorzonera L. species are as follows: S. purpurea L.: K (2n) = 14 = =
4181140| Description and drawings of Cephaloziella longii Va, sp. nova, from Bhutan are presented. This species is characterized by filiform shoots, very small leaves which are narrower than the stem and dioecious inflorescences. 
4181173|Names of species and subspecies from Janchen's Catalogus were revised with regard to their validity; invalidly published names were compiled in a commented list of 120 names. About sixty of them were analyzed at length from nomenclatural and taxonomical viewpoints. The cause of the invalidity of these names were discussed; omission of citations of basionyms to proposals of new nomenclatural combinations is the main reason for the invalidity of Janchen's names. Taxonomic reclassifications and nomenclatural revisions resulted in 23 new nomenclatural combinations, five of these proposals representing direct validations of Janchen's invalidly published names. Some more general problems of nomenclature are discussed: indirect validation of invalidly published names; omission of infraspecific homonymy; the correctness and necessity to attach neglected authors' names to the names of plants based on those names distinctly taken over from such authors; problems of autonyms in the ICBN Code. The use of the category "convarietas" in cultivated plants (instead of subspecies) is emphasized. Names validated by Janchen himself in his paper of 1959 should be used with this publication place instead of their invalid publication in the Catalogus. Some propositions for future research by other authors are also added.
4180710|Names for two subspecies and 7 species are validated, in a supplement to the author's account of Alchemilla for the Flora of Slovakia and the Flora of Czechoslovakia. Aspects of the taxonomy, variation, ecology, and geographical distribution of the taxa published as new are considered briefly.
4180908|17 plant associations belonging to 9 alliances from Spitsbergen are discussed; 7 associations, 2 alliances and 1 order are described as new. The percentage of diploids and polyploids in individual plant communities and their relation to ecology is examined.
4179854| The authors present the results of basic stratigraphic investigation, pollen analyses and macroscopic analyses of plant remains concerning two buried peat profiles and their mineral covers in the Zbudovsk blata marshes near esk Budjovice (southern Bohemia, Czechoslovakia). Both profiles (JC-9-A and JC-9-B) are characterized by two phases of sedimentation - earlier organogenic (Dryas III, Pre-boreal, Boreal periods) and later minerogenic (Sub-atlantic period). A stratigraphic hiatus appears between these two phases. The palaeoecological investigation supports the existing information about the rare occurrence of Corylus in some areas of Czechoslovakia during the Boreal period, brings proofs of fir forests in the area of the esk Budjovice Basin in the early Sub-atlantic period, and yields new data on the palaeophytogeography of some aquatic, swamp and mire plants. The paper also attempts to reconstruct the succession of local peat-forming communities. A comparison of the development of vegetation in the esk Budjovice Basin and in the neighbouring Tebo Basin is appended. 
4180739|The contribution deals with the phytocenological analysis of the Rondeletio correifoliae-Andropogonetum multinervosi, an endemic savanna association occurring on the Siguanea Hills (Sierra de la Siguanea) near the Colony Hotel.
4179465| Im nrdlichen Bhmerwaldvorgebirge trifft die boreale Gentianella amarella auf drei sdlichen Vorpostenfundorten mit der sdosteuropischen Gentianella austriaca zusammen und bildet mit ihr eine bisher unbekannte Hybride, die als Gentianella  austroamarella beschrieben wird. 
4179634| Die Autoren erachten nach der Untersuchung der Populationen in der Natur, sowie des Materials in den Prager Herbarien und nach berprfung in der Kultur die slowakische Sippe Cyclamen durpurascens Mill. als eine endemische Unterart: C. purpurascens subsp. immaculatum (Hrabt.) Halda et Sojk; sie unterscheidet sich von der typischen Unterart vor allem durch die einfarbige, fleckenlose Blattoberseite. 
4179938| The present paper sums up the knowledge obtained from the study of growth periodicity in the underground organs of Phragmites communis Trin. and from the analyses of different Phragmites stands in three regions of Czechoslovakia. A period of intense growth of Phragmites rhizomes was recorded in summer. Spring (end of April and beginning of May) and autumn (mainly September) seem to be the periods of most active root growth. During July and August, accumulation of reserve material takes place both in new and old rhizomes. In the stands investigated, the biomass of Phragmites rhizomes varied from
4181352|Two naturally coexisting grassland species - Centaurea jacea (often predominating) and Fragaria vesca (subordinate) were grown together in a pot experiment of factorial design, where competition and arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) inoculation were used as treatments. The effects of competition were one-sided, i.e. the mass of F. vesca decreased relatively more than that of C. jacea as a result of competition. The root and total mass of C. jacea increased with AM inoculation while F. vesca did not respond. The mass difference between C. jacea and F. vesca in a particular pot increased when plants were mycorrhizal, mostly due to the mass increase of C. jaceae. This can be explained by the differential response of these species to AM. We did not find any indirect indication of the interplant transfer of resources. The results of this experiment show the more unbalanced competition (larger differences in biomass) resulting from AM infection of plants.
4179678| In dieser Arbeit werden Ergebnisse phytoznologisch-kologischer Forschungen der nordund mittelmhrischen Carpinion-Gesellschaften zusammengefasst. Das westtschechoslowakische Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957 (mit drei Subassoziationen), das (vor)karpatische Caricipilosae-Carpinetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1964 (mit fnf Subassoziationen) und das schwach boreokontinentale Tilio-Carpinetum Traczyk 1962 (mit vier Subassoziationen) werden hier behandelt. Die Beziehungen der einzelnen Gesellschaften zu Gelndefaktoren, Bodentypen, einigen physikalischen und chemischen Bodeneigenschaften sowie die Verbreitung der wichtigsten Carpinion-Assoziationen in Mhren und ihr mathematischer Vergleich werden ebenfalls bercksichtigt. /// This paper gives the results of phytocoenological-ecological research of the oak-hornbeam communities of Central and Northern Moravia (incl. Moravian Silesia). The region of Moravia is especially interesting in this respect, because the boundaries of the area of the four important associations of the alliance Carpinion, namely the West-Czechoslovakian Galio-Carpinetum Oberd. 1957, the (Sub)Carpathian Carici pilosae-Carpinetum R. et Z. Neuh., the slightly Boreocontinental Tilio-Carpinetum Traczyk 1962 and the Pannonian Primulae veris-Carpinetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1964 pass through Moravia. The potential distribution of these associations in Moravia is demonstrated in fig. 10. The phytosociological structure of the first three associations occurring in the studied area is to be seen in Tab. 1-3. The Tilio-Carpinetum Traczyk 1962 as a new association for Czechoslovakia is analysed in detail in this paper. New subassociations are described: Tilio-Carpinetum molinietosum arundinaceae (differential species: Betula pubescens, Carex brizoides, Frangula alnus, Lysimachia vulgaris, Molinia arundinacea, Pteridium aquilinum, Vaccinium myrtillus, or Melampyrum pratense), a community of acid, periodically moist soils, and Carici pilosae-Carpinetum primuletosum elatioris (differential species: Primula elatior, Ficaria verna, Galeobdolon vulgare, Paris quadrifolia, Astrantia major, Arum maculatum, Gagea lutea), a community of a transition character to Tilio-Carpinetum. The mathematical analysis shows a relatively high degree of floristic homogeneity of all associations (index about 50%), clear-cut floristic difference between Galio-Carpinetum and Tilio-Carpinetum, and relatively high degree of similarity between Galio-Carpinetum and Carici pilosae-Carpinetum, as well as between Carici pilosae-Carpinetum and Tilio-Carpinetum. The comparison of habitat factors confirmed coincidence between the described associations and/or subordinated units, and relevant soil types. All associations occur mostly on fresh to dry, rarely on moist soils, with favourable physical properties, the top-soil being loose or only moderately compact and relatively well aerated. The chemical soil properties vary considerably; they show only weak relation to the syntaxonomical units. On the average, the most favourable soil reaction and chemical properties of soils were found in Carici pilosae-Carpinetum, less favourable conditions in Galio-Carpinetum, and worst in Tilio-Carpinetum. The physical and chemical properties of the top-soil (humus horizons) are most important from the ecological point of view. The content of nutrients in the sub-soil horizons seems to be rather unimportant with regard to the floristic composition of the studied plant communities. A general description of the habitat of the studied communities is given on p. 252-254. 
4180641| Stratigraphic, pollen and macroscopic analyses of the Holocene limnic and peat sediments from the eabinec fish-pond (southern Bohemia, Czechoslovakia) are presented and evaluated. New information on the sedimentary processes (especially the middle Holocene stratigraphic anomaly), the development of aquatic and mire vegetation, the character of the forest cover and human activity in the eabinec area during the Preboreal, Boreal, Subboreal and Subatlantic has been obtained. 
4181081| The seedlings of twenty eight annual and perennial desert plants belonging to fifteen families were raised under controlled growth conditions and subjected to a range of tests. The water use efficiency, photosynthesis, extreme temperatures and drought tolerance were monitored. The results were discussed for their ecological significance as a basic information to applied research. Seedlings which were more tolerant to extreme high and low temperatures and drought were more capable of controlling water loss through better water use efficiency. At temperatures below 25 C, the annual plants had higher photosynthetic rate than perennials, whereas at higher temperatures, the perennials were advantaged. 
4179910| New nomenclatural combinations or new names are proposed for 80 taxa, including 75 for species and hybrids at specific level, three for subspecies and two for hybrid genera. Honorius S. F. Gray 1821 (type: Ornithogalum nutans L. 1753) is accepted as a taxonomically justified generic segregate of Ornithogalum L. Separation of Poterium L. from Sanguisorba L. at generic level is emphasized. Problems of taxonomic classification of morphotypes in Xanthium L. subg. Xanthium are briefly discussed. /// Im Artikel sind neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen vorgeschlagen, die vom Studium der Problematik einer natrlicheren Begrenzung von verschiedenen Gattungen hervorgegangen sind. In den meisten Fllen handelt es sich um Ergnzungen der frher angenommenen Gattungsgliederungen durch weitere Arten; so z. B. mehr als zwei neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen sind bei den Gattungen Acosta, Anemonastrum, Anemonoides, Pistolochia, Pseudolysimachion und Tephroseris vorgeschlagen, einzelne dann auch bei den weiteren Gattungen. Als eine neue Gattung ist hier die vergessene Gattung Honorius S. F. Gray 1821 fr einen Teil der Gattung Ornithogalum L. mit der Typus-Art Ornithogalum nutans L. angenommen, und zwar auf Grund der Unterschiede in der Infloreszenzstruktur, in dem Bau der Staubgefsse und der Zwiebeln, wie auch in der Chromosomengrundzahl. In Hinsicht auf die wesentlichen Unterschieden, die sich auf die Pollenmorphologie, Bestubungstyp und unterschiedlichen Mosaik in der morphologisch-evolutionistischen Charakteristik beziehen, sind Poterium L. und Sanguisorba L. als selbstndige Gattungen klassifiziert. Als Namen fr Hybridengattungen sind  Calapodium = Calamintha  Clinopodium und  Honogalum = Honorius  Ornithogalum vorgeschlagen. In Xanthium L. subg. Xanthium (Umkreis von adventiven und nach Kreuzungen neu entwickelter Morphotype) stellt sich der Autor fr das Unterscheiden der deutlichen Varianten als Kleinarten, so dass ihr weiteres Studium ermglicht wre. Fr einen von diesen Taxa - X. "riparium" - wird ein neuer Name, X. ripicola, vorgeschlagen. 
4180370| Zwei neue Arten der bisher monotypischen Gattung Pocsia Vzda werden beschrieben: P. septemseptata (sp. n.) und P. dispersa (sp. n.). Ein Bestimmungsschlssel aller bekannten Pocsia-Arten wird vorgelegt. Die systematische Stellung der Gattung innerhalb der pyrenocarpen Flechten bleibt weiterhin ungeklrt. /// In a collection of foliicolous lichens from Zare, two new species of the genus Pocsia Vzda have been found: P. septemseptata (sp. n.) and P. dispersa (sp. n.). Both new species are very closely related to the type species, P. marattiae Vzda, however, they add nothing substancial to the hitherto problematic postion of this genus in the system of Ascolichens. The two new species were also found in a collection of lichens from the Republic of Guinea (W-Africa). A key for determination of all known species of the genus Pocsia is given. 
4181253|Chromosome numbers are reported for 14 species collected in Cuba. The first chromosome records are reported for Albizzia cubana Britton et Wilson (2n=26), Atkinsia cubensis (Britton et Wilson) Howard (2n=26), Caesalpinia violacea (Mill.) Standl. (2n=24), Colubrina ferruginosa Brongn. (2n=24). Chromosome numbers of the following species were confirmed: Albizzia lebbeck (L.) Benth. (2n=26), Canavalia maritima (Aubl.) Thouars (2n=22), Casuarina equisetifolia Forst. (2n=18), Cedrela mexicana M.J. Roem. (2n=56), Delonix regia (Bojer) Raf. (2n=28), Guazuma tomentosa H.B.K. (2n=16), Lysiloma bahamense Benth. (2n=26), L. latisiliqua (L.) Benth. (2n=26), Samanea saman (Jacq.) Merrill (2n=26), Thespesia populnea (L.) Soland (2n=26).
4180463| Female plants of Petasites fragrans were detected in material imported from Algeria, and they are now cultivated in Prhonice. Their importance for the determination of the indigenous distribution of the species was evaluated: all localities in Europe are secondary and only male plants grow there. 
4179725| Eine infragenerische Gliederung des ganzen Artenbereiches der Gattung Agrimonia L. wurde bisher von niemandem vorgenommen. Im vorigen (Skalick 1971) und im vorliegenden Teil werden zwei ausschliesslich in Amerika verbreiteten Agrimonia-Serien beschrieben. Die Arten der neubeschriebenen Serie Agrimonia L. ser. Tuberosae Skalick sind nur in Nordamerika verbreitet. Sie zeigen eine gewisse hnlichkeit mit einigen Arten der Serie Agrimonia L. ser. Pilosae Skalick. Die Verwandtschaftsbeziehungen innerhalb der Serie Tuberosae werden durch die neue Gliederung in zwei Subserien, und zwar die neue Subserie Rostellatae neben der nominaten Subserie, ausgedrckt. Weiter folgen die Bestimmungstabellen der Arten der behandelten Serie, sodann die systematische Bearbeitung einzelner Arten mit Verbreitungskarten. /// This is an extension of a previous paper discussing ser. Parvifiorae Skalicky of the genus Agrimonia L. Both the papers aim at an elucidation of the infrageneric classification of Agrimonia. Series with predominantly Eurasiatic distribution will be dealt with in subsequent studies. A new series, ser. Tuberosae Skalick, containing subseries Tuberosae and Rostellatae, is described in the present paper. Taxonomic, chorological and nomenclatural notes on the species concerned are provided. A. microcarpa Wallr. as circumscribed here includes all of A. platycarpa Wallr.; all Mexican material (A. pringlei Rydb.) is excluded. 
4180476| In the years 1976-1981 we studied chromosome counts and karyotypic formulae of the following 29 species of plants from 41 localities (of these 6 from Bohemia, 32 from Moravia, 3 from Slovakia): Batrachium baudotii (Godron) F. W. Schultz, Chenopodium rubrum L., C. polyspermum L., C. murale L., C. ficifolium Sm., C. opulifolium Schrader ex DC. in Lam. et DC., C. strictum Roth [subsp. strictum, subsp. glaucophyllum (Aellen) Aellen in Just et Aellen, subsp. striatiforme Uotila], Arenaria grandiflora L., Illecebrum verticillatum L., Spergula morisonii Boreau in Duchartre, Spergularia marginata (DC. in Lam. et DC.) Kittel, S. marina (L.) Griseb., S. rubra (L.) J. et C. Presl, Silene conica L., Sisymbrium loeselii L., S. volgense Bieb. ex E. Fourn., S. orientale L. [subsp. orientale, subsp. macroloma (A. Pomel) Dvok], S. officinale (L.) Scop., Descurainia sophia (L.) Webb ex Prantl in Engler et Prantl, Nasturtium officinale R. Br. in Aiton, Barbarea arcuata (Opiz in Presl J. et C.) Reichenb., Lunaria annua L., Soldanella montana Willd., S. carpatica Vierh. in Urban et Graebner, Lotus tenuis Waldst. et Kit. ex Willd., L. uliginosus Schkuhr, Trigonella monspeliaca L., Geranium sibiricum L., Lactuca tatarica (L.) C. A. Meyer. 
4180929| The present study depicts the presence of a gradient in the morphological characters of Thymelaea hirsuta (L.) Endl. leaves which correlated with the environmental gradient prevailing in the Western Mediterranean region of Egypt. The less arid and more calcareous habitats harbour individuals with obtuse and gentle curved leaf apices and gentle involute leaf margins. With the increase of aridity and decrease of CaCO
4181084|One new tribe (Telipogoneae) and nine new subtribes (Bartholininae, Cheirostylidinae, Elleanthinae, Epidendrinae, Herminiinae, Isochilinae, Oberoniinae, Phragmipediinae, Thecopodinae) are described. The status changes for five other taxa are proposed.
4179506| Die vorliegende Studie enthlt Ergebnisse einer taxonomischen Revision der lichenisierten Fungi (Flechten) der Gattung Thelopsis Nyl. Die Gattung umfasst 6 Arten: Th. flaveola Arnold, Th. isiaca Stiz., Th. lojkana (Poetsch ex Arnold) Nyl., Th. inordinata Nyl., Th. melathelia Nyl. und Th. rubella Nyl. Bei der Revision waren weder nomenklatorische nderungen noch Beschreibungen neuer Taxa ntig. Nher wird die systematische Stellung von Thelopsis diskutiert. Im Vergleich mit den Hauptgruppen der lichenisierten Pyrenocarpi nimmt Thelopsis, zusammen mit den taxonomisch noch nicht richtig eingereihten Arten "Clathroporina" heterospora Zahlbr. und "Microglaena" rosea Serv., eine systematisch bedeutend isolierte Stellung ein. Demgegenber existieren reale phylogenetische Beziehungen von Thelopsis zur discocarpen Gattung Ramonia Stiz. (Familie Thelotremataceae s. ampl.). Es wird vorgeschlagen, die Gattung Thelopsis in die Familie Thelotremataceae einzugliedern. /// Le prsent travail expose les rsultats d'une rvision taxonomique des champignons lichniss appartenant au genre Thelopsis. Dans la partie gnrale, l'auteur dcrit brivement la morphologie et l'anatomie de ces derniers et indique sommairement les caractristiques des principaux types de stations o ils se rencontrent dans la nature, ainsi que leur rpartition gographique. Le problme de la position systmatique du genre Thelopsis est trait de plus prs. Dans ce but est adopte une nouvelle classification des principaux types de Pyrnocarpes lichniss, base sur les caractres de la paroi des asques, de leur appareil apical, des paraphysoides, des priphyses et des spores. Cette nouvelle classification, que l'auteur prsente comme provisoire, s'loigne notablement,  beaucoup d'gards, des conceptions qu'on avait jusqu'ici de la systmatique de ce groupe. De la comparaison de ces points de vue diffrents on arrive en ce qui concerne le genre Thelopsis, aux conclusions suivantes: 1. Le genre Thelopsis Nyl., les espces "Microglaena" rosea Serv. et "Clathroporina" heterospora Zahlbr., ainsi que la famille des Porinaces (s. str.) telle qu'elle a t nouvellement dlimite dans ce travail, constituent, en raison de leurs asques unituniqus et de leurs vritables paraphyses, un groupe trs isol phylogntiquement du reste des Pyrnocarpes lichniss, ordinairement bituniqus. 2. C'est avec les espces "Microglaena" heterospora (et vraisemblablement aussi d'autres espces de Clathroporina) que le genre Thelopsis prsente le plus de parent; et peut-tre sera-t-il possible ultrieurement d'ajouter a ce genre, ces espces qui par contre n'ont aucune affinit avec les Microglaena et Clathroporina typiques. 3. En ce qui concerne la structure des fructifications, il existe une grande concordance entre toutes les espces de Thelopsis, "Microglaena" rosea et "Clathroporina" heterospora, d'une part, et les Discocarpes du genre Ramonia Stiz. (Thlotremataces s. ampl.), d'autre part. Du point de vue taxonomique le seul caractre qui spare ces deux groupes est le mode d'ouverture de leurs fructifications. Tandis que chez Thelopsis l'orifice reste constamment punctiforme, chez Ramonia celuici est d'abord punctiforme, puis son bord se dchire en formant des sortes de lobes qui se recourbent en mettant finalement  nu l'hymnium. Cette grande concordance, qui ne peut s'expliquer que par d'troites relations phylogntiques, autorise  classer le genre Thelopsis et les deux espces voisines dans la famille des Thlotrmataces s. ampl. Dans la partie spciale de ce travail l'auteur fournit la nomenclature et la description des 6 espces de Thelopsis connues jusqu'ici, ainsi que de brves indications sur les caractristiques des stations o ces espces ont t trouves, sur la rpartition gnrale de celles-ci et sur les chantillons tudis. En supplment les deux espces voisines "Microglaena" rosea et "Clathroporina" heterospora sont traites de la mme manire. Le texte est complt par 16 planches de dessins schmatiques  la plume relatifs  l'anatomie de toutes les espces de Thelopsis, des deux espces prcdentes et de quelques Pyrnocarpes lichniss typiques qui sont tudis en vue de rsoudre le problme de la position systmatique du genre Thelopsis. /// The present work gives the results of a taxonomic revision of the lichenized fungi belonging to the genus Thelopsis. In the general part the author briefly describes the morphology and anatomy of the species of the genus, outlines the characteristics of the principal types of habitats in which the plants are found, and gives information on their geographic distribution. The problem of the systematic position of the genus Thelopsis is discussed in detail. In this regard, a new classification of the principal types of the lichenized pyrenocarpic fungi is adopted, an arrangement based on the characteristics of the wall of the asci, the apical apparatus of the asci, the paraphyses, the periphyses, and the spores. This new classification, which is presented as provisional, is notably different in many respects from the concepts previously held regarding the systematics of this group. The following conclusions concerning Thelopsis can be made: 1. The genus Thelopsis Nyl., the species "Microglaena" rosea Serv. and "Clathroporina" heterospora Zahlbr. as well as the family Porinaceae (sens. str.) such as it has been newly delimited in this study, constitute all together, by virtue of their unitunicate asci and their true paraphyses, a group phylogenetically very isolated from the rest of the lichenized pyrenocarpic fungi, which are usually bitunicate. 2. The genus Thelopsis is most closely related to the species "Microglaena" rosea and "Clathroporina" heterospora (and probably to other species of Clathroporina) and it might be possible eventually to place them in Thelopsis since they have no affinity whatever with the typical species of Microglaena and Clathroporina. 3. In the structure of the fruits there is a great agreement among all the species of Thelopsis, "Microglaena" rosea, and "Clathroporina" heterospora on the one hand and the discocarpic fungi of the genus Ramonia Stiz. (Thelotremataceae sens. ampl.) on the other hand. From the point of view of taxonomy, the only character which separates the two groups is the manner by which the fruits open. While in Thelopsis the orifice consistently remains punctiform, in Ramonia it is punctiform at first and then its margin tears and forms lobe-like structures which recurve and finally expose the naked hymenium. This broad correlation of characters, which can be explained only as resulting from close phylogenetic relationships, justifies a classification of the genus Thelopsis and the two closely related species in the family Thelotremataceae sens. ampl. In the special part of this work the author gives the nomenclature and the description of the six known species of Thelopsis, brief notes on the characteristics of the habitats in which the species are found, the general ranges and the specimens studied. The two related species "Microglaena" rosea and "Clathroporina" heterospora are treated in the same way. Sixteen plates of schematic line drawings are provided relating to the anatomy of all the species of Thelopsis, of the two allied species, and of several typical lichenized pyrenocarpic fungi studied with the view of clarifying the systematic position of the genus Thelopsis. 
4180856|The seeds of 115 species in eighteen genera of the family Portulacaceae were examined with the scanning electron microscope. Longitudinal sections of seeds of representatives of all the genera were examined with the light microscope. Two broad groups based on shape of the seeds, ornamentation of the external surface of their testa, and the position of the embryo relative to the endosperm were recognised. The first group comprising three genera: Anacampseros L., Grahamia Gillies and Talinopsis A. Gray, have seeds which are pyriform with wings and trichomes, and an embryo that is more or less parallel to the endosperm, while the second of fifteen genera: Calandrinia H.B.K., Calyptridium Nuttall, Calyptrotheca Gilg, Ceraria Pearson et Stephens, Claytonia L., Lenzia Philippi, Lewisia Pursh, Lyallia Hooker fil., Montia L., Portulaca L., Portulacaria Jacquin, Silvaea Philippi, Talinella Baillon, Talinum Adanson, and Wangerinia Franz, are reniform without wings and with an embryo that is horse-shoe shaped around the endosperm.
4180609|Energy structure and dynamics was studied at the primary producer level in a tropical grassland community which was earlier subjected to burning. The ecological efficiency value was at a higher level in the burning site as compared to control.
4181321| The results of a taxonomic study of Cardamine amara L. from the Carpathians and Pannonia are presented. Two subspecies, Cardamine amara L. subsp. amara and C. amara subsp. opicii (J. Presl & C. Presl) elak., are shown to occur in the area studied. Full synonymy, descriptions, chromosome numbers, taxonomic history, distribution data, and ecological notes are provided. 
4181554| Six transects were established on the edges of two deciduous forests near Krosno (Carpathian Foothills) to compare the species richness pattern of vascular plants, bryophytes and fungi. The transects had the shape of a cross with one arm 10 m along the forest edge and the other across the edge, 50 m into the forest interior and 12 m into the grassland. They consisted of 2  2 quadrats. The strongest edge effects were recorded for bryophyte, shrub and tree species richness, the weakest for herbaceous plant species richness. Overall vascular plant species richness and herbaceous species richness were higher in grassland than in the forest and peaked in grassland, 3 m from the forest edge. The shrub species richness was highest 1 m from the edge (in the forest) and the tree species richness 3 m from edge. Bryophyte species richness had roughly the same level across the grassland and within the first several meters of the forest, except for the 2 m zone on the edge itself where species richness was as low as in the forest interior. Fungi species richness was low in the grassland and on the forest edge and rose dramaticaly a few meters from the edge, remaining at the same level within the forest. The species composition across the forest-grassland border was analysed using detrended correspondence analysis. It revealed that in the case of bryophytes the increase in species richness did not correspond to a change in species composition, such as might have been caused by a general increase in bryophyte density. 
4179536|A new fescue (Festuca karadagensis) has been described from Iraq. It differs from other taxa of the sect. Ovinae, especially by its big spikelets, very rough leaves and hirtulous rhachilla.
4179684| Boerhavia elegans Choisy ex DC. aus gypten und Boerhavia erecta L. aus Sudan werden zum erstenmal angegeben. Weiter wird eine neue Unterart beschrieben, und zw.: Carduncellus mareoticus (Del.) Hanelt subsp. deserticolus. /// From the territory of Egypt, viz from the Gebel Elba Mountains, the species Boerhavia elegans Choisy ex DC. has been recorded (for the time being with a question mark). The herbarium specimens (CAI) from this mountain range, however, in their morphological characters correspond to the plants edited in Schimper's exsiccata, according to which this species was described. As a result of the morphological analysis, it is evident that the specific value of this taxon is fully justified. From Sudan (province Dinder) numerous plants belonging to B. erecta L. were found in the herbaria of CAI. This species had not previously been mentioned from the territory of Sudan. It is the only representative of section Pyramidatae known hitherto in this part of Africa. From Egypt, namely from the area limited by the Siva Oasis, the depression of Qatara and the Mediterranean Sea, a new subspecies of Carduncellus mareoticus (Del.) Hanelt has been described; it differs from the nominate subspecies first of all by its general habitus (see the diagnosis). 
4181440| Short-lived plant communities of ruderal habitats in North Korea were studied using the Zrich-Montpellier approach. The Beckmannio eruciformis-Potentilletum costatae, the Daturo tatulae--Siegesbeckietum pubescentis, the Humulo japonicae-Chenopodietum albi and the Cosmo-Humulion japonicae were described as new. 
4181016|Changes in chemical composition of autochthonous plant litter undergoing decomposition in litter mesh-bags exposed in a transect across four vegetational zones of a fishpond littoral were estimated during the spring, summer and winter season. The highest decomposition rate was found in all four zones in spring, the lowest one in winter. The decomposition was faster in the two aquatic than in the two terrestrial zones in the spring and the summer season. The litter was enriched with nitrogen and released potassium in all locelities and seasons. The uptake or release of other mineral constituents appeared to be specific for each zone and to depend on the season of the year.
4180587|Myriophyllum spicatum has been discovered in the Nile valley during the past decade. The rapid colonization seems to be influenced by changes in the Nile water regime after the building of the High Dam at Aswan.
4181423|Plants of the common reed (Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud.) were treated with high doses of nitrogen in an experiment performed in a sand culture and lasting one vegetation period. Nitrogen treatment resulted in alterations of growth; the increased growth of rhizomes and stalks was connected with production of significantly shorter roots. The differences in root growth were connected with changes in the internal root structure. In rhizome-borne roots, treatment with high nitrogen reduced the formation of aerenchyma and lignified layers in subapical regions. No substantial differences were observed in starch occurrence in the roots under the two treatments.
4181172|A taxonomic survey is given of eight species of the South and Central European group with the Taraxacum sect. Palustria. Descriptions and figures characterise four taxa treated in more detail (T. abrotanum and T. insolitum of them are described as new to science from Greece); all the eight members of the group are given synonymy and typification.
4181278|The Park Grass Experiment at Rothamsted consists of a series of fertilizer treatments which have been applied to a species-rich hay meadow annually since 1856. Detailed botanical analyses of the plots between 1862 and 1992 were classified to one of the National Vegetation Classification (NVC) communities using the similarity measured by Czekanowski coefficient using computer program MATCH. Results indicated that "control" unfertilized plots were a relatively stable Cynosurus cristatus-Centaurea nigra dicotyledon-rich grassland. However mineral fertilized plots moved towards a species-rich Arrhenatherum elatius grassland MG1e after 50-80 years and remained there. Plots receiving nitrogen fertilizer moved first to MG1e then on to a Lolium perenne-Alopecurus pratensis grassland MG7D. Perhaps the most interesting plot was one which received a low rate of the soil acidifying ammonium sulphate fertilizer; the species composition changed towards a MG7D (Lolium perenne-Alopecurus pratensis) community between 1856 and 1903 but since then a liming treatment has been applied to part of the plot and the species composition on that part has recovered to a MG5 community resembling the control plots, taking 70-90 years to do so.
4179655| Es werden die phytoznologische Charakteristik der Pflanzengesellschaften der Sanddnenvegetation des unteren und mittleren Dnjeprstromgebietes und der Vorschlag einer neuen Gliederung der Sandvegetation kontinentalen Ursprungs im europischen Raum unterbreitet. Im Rahmen der Klasse Festucetea vaginatae So 1968 emend. Vich. und der Ordnung Festucetalia vaginatae So 1957 wird fr die pontischen Sandsteppenrasen der Verband Festucion beckeri foed. nova, fr die Sandtrockenrasen des sarmatischen Gebietes, die dem Verband Koelerion glaucae Volk 1931 angehren, die Ordnung Festuco-Astragaletalia arenarii ordo nova neu aufgestellt. Aus Festucion beckeri werden folgende Assoziationen und Subassoziationen angefhrt: Centaureo odessanae-Festucetum beckeri ass. nova; Linario odorae-Agropyretum dasyanthi ass. nova; Centaureo brevicepsis-Festucetum beckeri ass. nova mit den subassoziationen typicum subass. nova, inuletosum sabuletorum subass. nova, salicetosum rosmarinifoliae subass. nova; Centaureo borysthenicae-Festucetum beckeri ass. nova mit den Subassoziationen dianthetosum squarrosi subass. nova und dianthetosum pseudosquarrosi subass. nova. Das Koelerion glaucae reprsentieren Thymo angustifolii-Festucetum beckeri ass. nova mit den Subassoziationen typicum subass. nova und hirochloetosum stepposae subass. nova; Diantho borbasii-Agrostetum syreistschikovii ass. nova prov. Den Verband Corynephorion canescentis Klika 1931 emend. R. Tx. 1962 vertritt die einzige Assoziation Veronico dillenii-Corynephoretum Passarge 1960 emend. Hohenester 1967 mit den Subassoziationen typicum subass. nova und polytrichetosum piliferi subass. nova. /// The present paper is a phytocenological study of the sand dune vegetation of the steppe, forest-steppe and of the southern part of the forest zone of the lower and middle Dnieper basin from the Black Sea coast and contiguous islands in the south, to a broad region north of Kiev. At the same time, attention was paid to syntaxonomic problems of the sand vegetation of continental origin in the European area. The suggestion for a new division of the sand vegetation of continental origin is based on the verified supposition that plant communities of the alliances Festucion vaginatae So 1929 and Koelerion glaucae Volk 1931 originate in the Pontic region of South-East Europe and that they are evolutionary derivates of the sand steppe vegetation shifted to the west. From this point of view, continental (subcontinental) sand dune plant communities are classified in the class Festucetea vaginatae So 1968 emend. Vicherek. Taking into account the areas of plants which assert themselves in the composition of plant communities of the sand vegetation, and the geographical distribution of the individual communities, the class is divided into two orders which give a true picture not only of the synchorology but also of their epiontological character. The order Festucetalia vaginatae So 1957 includes communities of the sand steppe of the Pontic and Pannonian regions. Its alliance Festucion beckeri Vicherek foed. nova is that of the Pontic area; the alliance Festucion vaginatae So 1929 is an endemic unit of the Pannonian area. For the Sarmate group of sand vegetation the order Festuco-Astragaletalia arenarii Vicherek ordo nova is delimited so far by the single alliance Koelerion glaucae Volk 1931. In the territory investigated, besides communities of Festucion beckeri and Koelerion glaucae of continental origin, I had the opportunity to analyze communities from the group of the Atlantic (Subatlantic) type of wandering dune vegetation of the alliance Corynephorion canescentis Klika 1931 emend. R. Tx. 1962, which reach their eastern-most boundary in the area north of Kiev. The following associations of Festucion beckeri and their lower syntaxa are quoted in the present paper: 1. Centaureo odessanae-Festucetum beckeri Vicherek ass. nova, an endemic association of the sand steppe of shore sand dunes of Black (? Azov) Sea. It has been found only on Tendra island. 2. Linario odorae-Agropyretum dasyanthi Vicherek ass. nova is a pioneer association of the wandering sands of the steppe zone of the Dnieper river basin. This association has been recorded from numerous localities. 3. Centaureo brevicepsis-Festucetum beckeri Vicherek ass. nova, confined to a narrow area in the southern part of the lower stream of Dnieper from the Black Sea coast to Nova Kachovka in the north, is divided into a series of subunits whose phytocenoses are contingent in their development on dissimilarities in some partial components of the ecotope: subass. typicum Vicherek subass. nova with var. typicum Vicherek var. nova and var. Genista borysthenica Vicherek var. nova, subass. inuletosum sabuletorum Vicherek subass. nova, and subass. salicetosum rosmarinifoliae Vicherek subass. nova. 4. Centaureo borysthenicae-Festucetum beckeri Vicherek ass. nova, an association of broad distribution in the steppe and in the greater part of the forest-steppe zone is phytogeographically connected with the preceding association. The absolute northern boundary has been set in the environs of the townlet of Kanev where the northern boundary of the area of the Festucion beckeri ends in the Dnieper river basin. Within the scope of this association the following subunits are differentiated: subass. dianthetosum squarrosi Vicherek subass. nova with var. typicum Vicherek var. nova, var. Jurinea paczoskiana Vicherek var. nova, and var. Jurinea cyanoides Vicherek var. nova, and subass. dianthetosum pseudosquarrosi Vicherek subass. nova. Koelerion glaucae is represented by the following associations: 5. Thymo angustifolii-Festucetum beckeri Vicherek ass. nova which extends in the northern part of the forest-steppe zone from the townlet Riev and in the southern part of the forest zone north of Kiev. The absolute northern boundary of this association has not been established. Within the scope of this association the following subassociations have been differentiated: subass. typicum Vicherek subass. nova, and subass. hirochloetosum stepposae Vicherek subass. nova. 6. Diantho borbasii-Agrostetum syreistschikovii Vicherek ass. nova prov. is a provisionally established association. It has been found at a single locality on the island "Truchaniv ostriv" where the river Desna flows into the Dnieper. Wandering dune communities, occurring mainly in the Atlantic (Subatlantic) region of Europe, are fixed in the forest zone north of Kiev. From the group of the communities of the Cyronephorion canescentis the following association has been recorded: 7. Veronico dillenii-Corynephoretum Passarge 1960 emend. Hohenester 1967 which is an association of subcontinental East Europe. This association has been found in the following subassociations: subass. typicum Vicherek subass. nova, and subass. polytrichetosum piliferi Vicherek subass. nova. The phytocenological diagnoses of these syntaxa according to the floristic composition and according to their geographical distribution are supplemented by an orientation statement of some chemical properties of the soils in the surface layer 0 - 5 cm. The values found are well-balanced for the communities of all alliances studied. With the exception of sands from the shore zone of islands, where fragments of shells of sea animals are admixed, the sands have an acid reaction (pH 5.1-5.5), with a marked absence of CaCO
4180974|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat et Moravec 1990), the present work collects the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1987. The list comprises 92 names.
4181252| Chromosome numbers are given of 15 species of the genus Hieracium L. s. str., representing seven species groups (in the sense of Flora Europaea, roughly corresponding to Zahn's "species principales") from the Krkonoe Mts., N. Bohemia and SW Poland. For the first time, chromosome numbers are reported for H. melanocephalum Tausch (2n=27), H. tubulosum Tausch (2n=36), H. schustleri Zlatnk (2n=36), H. fritzei F. Schultz (2n=27), H. rohlenae Zlatnk (2n=27), H. nigrescens Willd. (2n=36), H. decipiens Tausch (2n=36), H. atrellum Juxip in Schischkin et Bobrov (2n=27), H. subnigrescens (Fries ex Norrlin) Dahlst. (2n=36), H. sudeticum Sternberg (2n=36), H. pedunculare Tausch (2n=36), H. glandulosodentatum Uechtr. (2n=36), H. wimmeri Uechtr. (2n=27). In Hieracium alpinum L. s. str. the number 2n=27 has been confirmed. The results show a high proportion of tetraploid taxa; no diploids have been found. 
4180797|Succession in a herbaceous vegetation developed on a site formerly occupied by a Quercetum petraeae-cerris forest is described and discussed. The deforestation took place in 1979. In the clearing 15 sample plots of 1 m
4179801| New nomenclatural combinations are proposed, resulting from the adoption of a narrower concept of the generic classification unit or from necessary changes of the taxonomic rank in several taxa. A new genus - Anemonidium (Spach) Holub - is proposed in Ranunculaceae. Four genera are accepted, including Chamaepitys Hill (Ajuga L. p. p.), Cota J. Gay (Anthemis L. p. p.), Euchiton Cass. (Gnaphalium L. p. p.) and Rostraria Trin. (Koeleria Pers. p. p. + Trisetum Pers. p. p.). Genistella Ortega is preferred to Chamaespartium Adans. In all 95 new combinations are proposed (83 for species, 11 for subspecies, 1 for a variety), including 21 in Cota, 13 in Rostraria, 11 in Chamaepitys and 10 in Euchiton. /// Whrend einer Revision von verschiedenen Gruppen der Phanerogamenpflanzen zeigte sich die Notwendigkeit, manche neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen vorzuschlagen. Meistens sind sie aufgrund einer engeren Auffassung der Gattungsklassifizierungseinheit begrndet. Folgende Gattungen sind in diesem Beitrag wieder aufgenommen: Chamaepitys Hill (Ajuga L. p. p.), Cota J. Gay (Anthemis L. p. p.), Euchiton Cass. (Gnaphalium L. p. p.) und Rostraria Trin. (Koeleria Pers. p. p. + Trisetum Pers. p. p.) Weiter wurde eine neue monotypische Gattung in der Gruppe von Anemone s. l. vorgeschlagen, u. z. Anemonidium (Spach) Holub fr Anemone dichotoma L. Weitere nomenklatorische Kombinationen sind mit den Gattungsnamen Elytrigia Desv., Genistella Ortega und Tephroseris (Reichenb.) Reichenb. vorgeschlagen. Die nomenklatorische Problematik von Genistella Ortega 1773 und Chamaespartium Adans. 1763 wurde gelst; aufgrund des Studiums wurde Genistella als der richtige Gattungsname fr die Arten von Genista mit Phylloiden anerkannt. Einzelne neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen wurden aufgrund taxonomischer Transfere der Arten zu anderen Gattungen vorgeschlagen; solche sind in Acetosa, Aconogonon, Avenochloa, Bromopsis, Calathiana, Chamaecytisus, Colymbada, Dichodon, Eremogone und Tithymalus. Manche neue Kombinationen entstanden bei nderung der taxonomischen Rangstufe der betreffenden Taxa, hauptschlich wenn Unterarten zu Arten erhoben wurden (Aremonia pouzarii, Dactylorhiza ochroleuca, Genista undulata, Stenactis septentrionalis) und speziell dann, wenn Unterschiede in der Ploidiestufe existieren (Avenochloa occidentalis, Elytrigia flaccidifolia, Erysimum cazorlense, Galium vivianum, Helictotrichon planifolium). 
4181397| Variation in the number of species was studied in a subthermophilous grassland at a scale of 0.05  0.05 m during a 5-year period. The observed variance of species richness (VSR) was compared with a null model based on random distribution of species over a set of squares. It was found that distribution of species richness had more values than expected around the mean and less values at the "shoulders". Both tails fell within the predicted limits. Application of the procedures removing spatial dependence (random shifts, rotation/reflection method by Palmer & van der Maarel 1995) and environmental heterogeneity (patch model by Watkins & Wilson 1992) did not change the observed pattern. Using simulations in which the number of clumps and clumping intensity were manipulated it was found that the effect of the clumped spatial pattern on VSR results in a wide range of variances. Both variance excess and variance deficit were found more frequently than expected under the null model. To test the effect of the limitation to the number of individuals per square a null model was developed which included the observed number of plant shoots per square, the observed distribution of the number of shoots belonging to individual species per square and the observed spatial distribution of the shoots. The observed VSR was still lower than that produced by the null model. Therefore, it is concluded that at a scale of 0.05  0.05 m plant species combine in a non-random way in the studied grassland. It is suggested that the shape of left and right "shoulders" of the species richness distribution may be caused by different factors, such as positive and negative covariance between species, respectively. Their simultaneous impact can generate the observed pattern in species richness. 
4179464|The name Dryopteris borreri Newman 1854 was not validly published in the specific rank. A new name Dryopteris pseudo-mas (Wollaston) Holub et Pouzar 1967 is proposed as the correct name for this European species.
4179672| Chromosome counts of the following 30 taxa (106 populations) are given: Betonica officinalis (2n = 16); Bidens frondosus (2n = 48); Calamagrostis arundinacea (2n = 28 + 0-2B); Dianthus carthusianorum subsp. latifolius (2n = 30); Festuca gigantea (2n = 42, 42 + 2B); Hypericum perforatum (2n = 32); Koeleria macrantha (2n = 28); Kohlrauschia prolifera (2n = 30); Lilium martagon (2n = 24 + 0-2B); Melica ciliata (2n = 18); Poa remota (2n = 14); Ranunculus polyanthemos (2n = 16); R. sardous subsp. sardous (2n = 16); Roegneria canina (2n = 28 + 0-1B); Rudbeckia laciniata (2n = 76); Scabiosa canescens (2n = 16); Serratula tinctoria (2n = 22); Seseli elatum subsp. heterophyllum var. beckii (2n = 18); S. hippomarathrum (2n = 20); Thlaspi caerulescens subsp. tatrense (2n = 14); Trifolium alpestre (2n = 16); T. arvense (2n = 14); T. medium (2n = 79, 80 + 0-2B, 82); T. rubens (2n = 16); Veronica officinalis subsp. alpestris (2n = 36); Vincetoxicum hirundinaria (2n = 22); Vulpia bromoides (2n = 14); Zerna benekenii (2n = 28); Z. monoclada (2n = 28 + 0-8B); Z. ramosa (2n = 42). Remarks on taxonomy, nomenclature and chorology for some of these taxa are given. /// Die Chromosomenzahlen von 30 Taxa (106 Lokal-Populationen) sind in diesem Beitrage ange geben. Die Aufzhlung der behandelten Taxa siehe in der englischen Zusammenfassung. I. Karyologische Ergebnisse 1. Die Chromosomenzahlen von Thlaspi caerulescens subsp. tatrense (2n = 14) und Veronica officinalis subsp. alpestris (2n = 34) sind zum erstenmal bestimmt worden. 2. Abweichende Chromosomenzahlen 2n = 79 und 2n = 82 von einem aneuploiden Charakter sind bei der Art Trifolium medium gefunden worden, deren normale Chromosomenzahl 2n = 80 ist. 3. Die Chromosomenzahl von Trifolium pseudomedium Hausskn. (= T. medium subsp. balcanicum) - 2n = 64, 65 - ist vorlufig angegeben; oktoploide Chromosomenzahl wurde auch bei einigen slowakischen Trifolium medium agg. - Populationen gefunden. 4. Die Karyotypen von folgenden Taxa wurden nher studiert: Ranunculus polyanthemos; R. sardous subsp. sardous; Scabiosa canescens; Thlaspi caerulescens subsp. tatrense. II. Taxonomische Ergebnisse 1. Kohlrauschia Kunth und Zerna Panzer restr. Nevskij werden als selbstndige Gattungen, von Petrorhagia Link, bzw. Bromus L. verschieden, angenommen. 2. Auf Grund der abweichenden Frchte und der geographischen Verteilung ist Ranunculus sardous in zwei Unterarten aufgeteilt. 3. Eine neue Unterart von Veronica officinalis - subsp. alpestris - in den Gebirgen von Bhmen vorkommend, wird anerkannt. Bemerkungen ber die Taxonomie sind noch zu den Arten Seseli elatum, Zerna benekenii, Z. monoclada und Z. ramosa hinzugefgt. III. Nomenklatorische Ergebnisse 1. Ranunculus sardous wird mit der Unterart typisiert, die im stlichen Teil des Areals der Art vorkommt. 2. Der gltige Name fr Vincetoxicum officinale Moench 1794 ist V.hirundinaria Medic. 1790. 3. Der Name Bromus asper Murr. 1770 kann nicht fr B. benekenii bentzt werden, weil er einen berflssigen Namen von B. ramosus Huds. 1762 darstellt. Bemerkungen zur Nomenklatur sind noch den Arten Seseli osseum und Zerna monoclada beigefgt. 
4179534| In der Arbeit wird die Trennung der hochmontanen Pflanzen Sdosteuropas, bisher Poa cenisia All. oder Poa contracla Nyr. benannt, von der in den Alpen wachsenden Art Poa cenisia All. begrndet. Die Pflanzen des Balkans und der Sdkarpaten werden als Poa psvchrophila Boiss. et Heldr. bezeichnet. Weiterhin wird der taxonomische Wert der Art Poa oreophila Boiss. et Helder. angefhrt. Es wird die Vermutung ausgesprochen dass Poa cenisia All. sehr wahrscheinlich nur an die Alpen gebunden ist. /// The plants from S. E. Europe and the S. Carpathian determined as P. cenisia or P. contracta are identical with plants from Turkey. All these plants differ from P. cenisia All. s. str. The correct name for S. E. European and S. Carpathian plants is P. psvchrophila Boiss. et Heldr. P. cenisia All. s. str. is very probably restricted only to the Alps. The plants from the Pyrenees (P. fontquerii Br.-Bl.) differ from P. cenisia All. s. str. and they are in a certain relationship to the Balkan plants. 
4181353|Changes in plant community structure after changes in some aspect of the environment such as nutrients or grazing is often ascribed to changes in competitive relationships among the plants. However, very rarely is competition measured directly in such experiments. To distinguish between the direct effects of environmental treatments and changes in competitive relationships, it is necessary to quantify the influence of competition on community structure and compare the magnitude and direction of this influence between environments. We describe an experimental approach to accomplish this that is based on the classic yield-density experiment of agronomy. The approach is called the community-density experiment and requires experimental establishment of a gradient in total initial community density such that absolute densities of each species increase but initial relative abundances of each species stay constant along the gradient. We define various indices of the magnitude of community-level consequences of increasing density that can be compared among environments such as different fertilizer or grazing treatments. We also discuss various practical ways of achieving the experimental density gradient that are suitable for different kinds of communities.
4180196| Zwanzig Pflanzen der Klasse Phragmiti-Magnocaricetea (Kennarten der einzelnen pflanzensoziologischen Einheiten) und des Verbandes Agropyro-Rumicion crispi wurden den chemischen Analysen unterzogen. Die Pflanzenproben wurden auf den Wiesen der Trockengebiete S-Mhrens und der SW-Slowakei gesammelt, u. zw. aus den pflanzensoziologisch definierbaren Einheiten (Assoziationen der Verbnde Phragmition, Caricion gracilis, Caricion rostratae und Agropyro-Rumicion). Die Resultate wurden mit der chemischen Zusammensetzung der in anderen Gebieten vorkommenden Pflanzen verglichen. Es zeigten sich Zusammenhnge zwischen der genetisch bedingten chemischen Zusammensetzung bestimmter Artengruppen und den Eigenschaften des Substrats. In diesem Sinne gibt es allgemeine Unterschiede zwischen den Verbnden Caricion gracilis und Caricion rostratae. Die Arten des Agropyro-Rumicion zeigen im Durchschnitt engere Bindung an die Gesellschaften des Cnidion-Verbandes als an das Caricion gracilis. /// Twenty plants of the class Phragmiti-Magnocaricetea, the alliance of Agropyro-Rumicion crispi, sampled from regularly flooded meadows near Lanhot (southern Moravia) and from flooded and fen meadows in the Zhorsk nina Lowland (SW. Slovakia) were subjected to chemical analyses (Tabs. 1-2). The results obtained were compared with the chemical composition of some of the same species coming from other regions (Tab. 3). The following facts were ascertained: (1) The chemical composition of the species with narrower phytocoenological amplitude (those of alliance and association) reflects, more or less conspicuously, the conditions prevailing on the site, even though different biochemical properties of plants of various families are manifested here to a certain degree - e.g. Peucedanum palustre. (2) Phosphorus and potassium predominate in the chemical composition of species of the alliance Caricion gracilis, with the optimum occurrence in inundated positions, while calcium and magnesium (concerning average values - see at bottom of Tab. 2) appear in larger quantities in the alliance Caricion rostratae bound mostly to fens. Some similar chemical properties of various plants of the alliances Caricion rostratae and Caricion gracilis are often linked to their common occurrence. For instance, the occurrence of Carex appropinquata and that of Paucedanum palustre are related to each other in the ratio of N: K and K: Cl; Carex rostrata and Carex elata, e.g. in the ratio of N: Ca, N: K, K: Ca, and K: Mg; Carex vesicaria and Carex rostrata, in the ratio of K: Mg, N: K, and (Ca + Mg): (K + Na), and also in K content. Of order species, Eleocharis palustris, from the physiological-chemical point of view, has more properties in common with the species of the alliance Caricion gracilis than with those of the alliance Caricion rostratae (see the ratio (Ca + Mg): (K + Na), and K and P contents), Carex acutiformis is closer to the species of the alliance Caricion rostratae (cf. Ca: S, N: P, Mg: P, and Ca and P contents). Greater deviations from the average are shown by Carex elata, Carex riparia, and Carex disticha, i.e. by species often forming pure stands. (3) The species of the alliance Agropyro-Rumicion crispi, which are mostly bound to the plant communities of the alliances Caricion gracilis and Cnidion venosi in the temperate regions (if they do not form pure stands), show some different parameters in their chemical composition in comparison with studied species of the class Phragmiti-Magnocaricetea - this mostly concerns the Ca, Mg, Na, S and Fe contents, and some ratios, e.g. (Ca + Mg): (K + Na) and Ca: P (average values). A closer connection was shown to exist with the chemical composition of the important species sampled from the meadows of the alliance Cnidion venosi. (4) In agreement with a higher concentration of nutrients in soils in the valley of the Opava river, the concentration of most elements in plants growing in that valley appears to be higher than that in those in the studied areas in southern Moravia and SW. Slovakia. On the other hand, in the regions of Hercynia (Tebosk pnev Basin, drsk vrchy Hills) poorer in minerals, a lower level of nutrients in plant material was found (Tab. 3). 
4180811| Phytosociological records were made in 80 stands lying in 50 small woodland islands in the Wierzbanwka valley. The types of communities were distinguished on the basis of numerical classification of records. These were mainly fragments of the Tilio-Carpinetum association. For all the stands and for two groups of stands connected with various soils and localized mainly in the eastern or western part of the valley the statistical relationships between ten independent variables were examined (area of record, area of woodland island, its shape, distance to the nearest large woodland, mean distance to the three nearest woodland islands and others) and 10 dependent variables (number of species of trees, shrubs, herbaceous plants, species characteristic of the classes Querco-Fagetea, Vaccinio-Piceetea, Molinio-Arrhenatheretea, Rudero-Secalietea and others). It was found that the floristic composition of the communities investigated was connected primarily with the isolation of the woodland islands. With increasing isolation the total number of species decreased, as did the number of herbaceous plants and that of herbaceous plants of the classes Querco-Fagetea and Vaccinio-Piceetea, while the number of species of the classes Molinio-Arrhenatheretea and Rudero-Secalietea increased. Conditions of the habitat such as the inclination of slopes, shading, and soil fertility were less important. 
4180241|A description is given of a new tall herb association - Deschampsio-Filipenduletum ulmariae from northern Norway, with characteristics of the association, data on its origin and remarks on developmental trends. The syntaxonomic position of the association has been discussed and a comparison has been made with analogous communiteis in Scandinavia, central and east Europe.
4179590| The paper gives an account of the results of karyological investigation of 15 species from Czechoslovakia: Allium ochroleucum, A. senescens subsp. montanum, A. strictum, Asperula tinctoria, Aster amellus, Calamintha officinalis, Calystegia pulchra, C. sepium, Epilobium adenocaulon, Erysimum odoratum, Festuca pallens, Gasparrinia peucedanoides, Genista germanica, Gentiana pannonica, Glyceria nemoralis. Comments on taxonomic, nomenclatural and chorological problems are given for most of these species. /// Diese Studie erffnet eine Reihe von Beitrgen, die der Erforschung der karyologischen Verhltnisse der Taxa der tschechoslowakischen Flora gewidmet werden. Die karyologischen Angaben werden bei manchen Taxa mit Bemerkungen ber taxonomische, nomenklatorische und chorologische Probleme ergnzt. In diesem Beitrage werden 15 Arten behandelt: Allium ochroleucum, A. senescens subsp. montanum, A. strictum, Asperula tinctoria, Aster amellus, Calamintha officinalis, Calystegia pulchra, C. sepium, Epilobium adenocaulon, Erysimum odoratum, Festuca pallens, Gasparrinia peucedanoides, Genista germanica, Gentiana pannonica, Glyceria nemoralis. I. Karyologische Ergebnisse 1. Die Chromosomenzahlen folgender Arten wurden zum erstenmal bestimmt: Calystegia pulchra 2n = 22, Gentiana pannonica 2n = 40, Glyceria nemoralis 2n = 20. 2. Die von den bisher bekannten abweichenden Chromosomenzahlen wurden bei folgenden Taxa festgestellt: Asperula tinctoria 2n = 22; Calamintha officinalis coll. (Pflanzen von botanischen Grten) 2n = 30-32, 35; Epilobium adenocaulon 2n = 18; Genista germanica 2n = 32. 3. Bei 3 Taxa sind genauere Angaben ber deren Karyotyp beigefgt: Allium ochroleucum, Allium senescens subsp. montanum und Festuca pallens. 4. Akzessorische Chromosomen wurden bei Allium senescens subsp. montanum und Epilobium adenocaulon festgestellt. 5. Folgende Chromosomenzahlen wurden vorlufig erwhnt: Erysimum wittmanii - 2n = = 14; E. "vagicum" - 2n = 14. II. Taxonomische Ergebnisse 1. Europische Pflanzen von Allium senescens L. werden als eine Unterart-subsp. montanum (F. W. Schmidt) Holub - bewertet. 2. Von der Variabilittsanalyse des Erysimum odoratum-Komplexes aus dem Gebiet der Westslowakei geht hervor, dass dort ein spezielles, bisher nicht beschriebenes Taxon (mit 2n = 14) vorkommt, das verwandtschaftlich E. wittmanii Zaw. (2n = 14) nahe steht. 3. Gasparrinia Bertol. ist als eine berechtigte Gattung angenommen; G. peucedanoides (M. Bieb.) Thell. ist als eine Kollektivart aufgefasst. Das bisherige Studium erlaubt, die franzsischen Pflanzen dieser Art als eine Unterart zu unterscheiden. 4. Fr die mitteleuropischen Arten von Glyceria R. Br. sect. Glyceria wurde ein Bestimmungsschlssel zusammengestellt. G. nemoralis (Uechtr.) Uechtr. et Krn. ist als eine selbstndige Art angenommen. III. Nomenklatorische Ergebnisse 1. Die Notwendigkeit, die Emendation von Jordan bei dem Namen Calamintha officinalis Moench anzufhren, wurde erwiesen. IV. Chorologische Ergebnisse 1. Glyceria nemoralis wurde als eine neue Pflanze fr die Flora von Trkei an 2, weit vom brigen Areal isolierten, Lokalitten festgestellt. 
4179912| Candelariella plumbea Poelt et Vzda sp. n. und C. rhodax Poelt et Vzda sp. n., beide unabhngig voneinander von den Autoren gefunden, werden als neu beschrieben. Sie gehren zur Verwandtschaft von C. aurella mit achtsporigen Asci. /// Candelariella plumbea Poelt et Vzda sp. n. and C. rhodax Poelt et Vzda sp. n. independently found by both the authors in Europe, are described as new. Both belong to the group of C. aurella with 8-spored asci. Both grow on  vertical surfaces of limestone rocks. C. plumbea is characterised by the grey to plumbeous grey thickly squamulous, finally isidious-soredious thallus and the inflexed thick thalline margin of the apothecia. C. rhodax has rosette-like yellow thalli with distinctly effigurate marginal lobes. 
4180318|Hybrid forms arisen in the process of introgression are of low stability. Changes in climate lead to absorption of hybrids by the ancestor for which this change is most favourable. Though the forms created by hybrid introgression are able to exist for thousands or even millions of years, introgressive hybridization in the cases known to us, as well as in the genera Picea, Larix, Pinus, has not opened and is not opening any evolutionary prospects.
4180437| The present paper is the second part of a vegetation-ecological study dealing with Calthenion communities of the protected landscape region Jizersk hory mountains. The following Cirsium-rich wet meadow communities are dealt with: Polygono-Cirsietum palustris Bal.-Tul. 1974, Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli Bal.-Tul. 1975, Angelico-Cirsietum palustris Bal.-Tul. 1973, and Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei Tx. 1937. /// Die in zwei Teile gegliederte Studie bietet Informationen ber die pflanzensoziologischen und synkologischen Verhltnisse der Feuchtwiesen im Landschaftsschutzgebiet Jizersk hory, einschliesslich seiner Randzone. Es handelt sich um eine Gebirgsregion mit mittlerer jhrlicher Lufttemperatur von ca. 4-7C und mittlerer jhrlicher Niederschlagssumme von 800-1 600 mm. Die geologische Unterlage - es dominiert porphyrischer Biotitgranit - sowie die Bden sind meistens nhrstoffarm und sauer. Es wurden insgesamt acht Assoziationen des Calthenion-Unterverbandes mit neunzehn Subassoziationen unterschieden. Ihre bersicht ist im ersten Teil angegeben (Baltov-Tulkov 1983, S. 117-118). Je nach der Hhenverbreitungstendenz knnen die untersuchten Wiesengesellschaften in drei Gruppen eingeteilt werden, u. zw.: A) Gesellschaften mit dem Verbreitungsschwerpunkt in der collinen Stufe (Meereshhe ca. 400-550 m . M., mittlere jhrliche Lufttemperatur: 6-7C, mittlere jhrliche Niederschlagssumme: 850-1 000 mm): Crepido-Juncetum acutiflori (Subass. typicum und cardaminetosum amarae), Scirpetum silvatici typicum, Polygono-Cirsietum palustris molinietosum, Angelico-Cirsietum palustris typicum und Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei typicum. B) Gesellschaften mit dem Verbreitungsschwerpunkt in der submontanen Stufe (Meereshhe ca. 550-700 m, mittlere jhrliche Lufttemperatur: 5-6C, mittlere jhrliche Niederschlagssumme: ca. 1 000-1 300 mm): Scirpetum silvatici caricetosum fuscae, Polygono-Cirsietum palustris typicum und violetosum palustris und Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei caricetosum fuscae. C) Gesellschaften mit dem Verbreitungsschwerpunkt in der montanen Stufe (Meereshhe ber 700 m (700-910 m . M., mittlere jhrliche Lufttemperatur: ca. 4-5C, mittlere jhrliche Niederschlagssumme: ca. 1 200-1 500 mm): Junco filiformi-Polygonetum (Subass. typicum und alchemilletosum), Polygono-Cirsietum palustris geranietosum silvatici, Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli (Subass. typicum, geranietosum silvatici und imperatorietosum) und Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei geranietosum silvatici und chrysosplenietosum. In Hinsicht auf die Bodenfeuchtigkeit, Humusqualitt, das pH und den Nhrstoffgehalt (auch
4179732| Es bestehen Unterschiede in der Bentzung des Terminus Dissemination bei verschiedenen Autoren. Die einen bentzen ihn im Sinne der Aussaat, die anderen als Synonym der Verbreitung. Die Verfasserin versucht die Beziehung zwischen der Verbreitung und der Dissemination klarzumachen, und hebt die Notwendigkeit der Bewahrung beider Termini hervor. Sie fhrt einen neuen Terminus ein: apeptosporische Dissemination (fr den Disseminationstyp derjenigen Arten, deren Diasporen zur Zeit der Milchreife wegfallen). /// In the botanical literature there are differences in the use of the term dissemination. The author explains these differences as found in the papers of various authors, and makes an attempt to clarify the relation between the terms spreading and dissemination; she emphasizes the necessity to preserve both terms. In a survey of the carpobiological system she tries to explain more exactly the complicated mutual relations of both terms. The terms under discussion are understood by the author as follows: Dissemination-a single, non-repeatable process in which the seeds either fall out of the fruits or are shot off, or in which the diaspores are taken off from the mother plant by man or animals (intentionally or accidentally). In the wider sense of the term, there may be taken into consideration the dissemination of spores or of some kinds of vegetative diaspores, e.g. bulbillae. In no case, however, should the term dissemination be used in the case of subterranean diaspores.-Spreading, on the other hand, is a single or repeatable process in which the seeds, fruits, spores, or all kinds of vegatative diaspores are either removed by means of various agents from the mother plant immediately after dissemination or are transported some time after dissemination from an other site; it means that spreading can take place-unlike dissemination-without any connection with the mother plant. Dissemination is sometimes so violent that it results in spreading over short distances. To the established terms "tachysporous, bradysporous, or semibradysporous dissemination" the author has added a new term, viz. "apeptosporous dissemination". This term means a temporal dissemination type of those species whose diaspores fall off at the stage of milk ripeness and ripen fully only on the ground (Ranunculus spp., Viola spp., Dentaria enneaphyllos, some species of the family Borraginaceae etc.). 
4180039|Ecology and germination behaviour of the seeds of two categories of Cucumis callosus Cogn. has been studied here. The seeds were found to be rigid in their requirement of light and temperature for germination. Red and far-red lights were found to affect germination and a phytochrome system appeared to be present. Temperature was found to have a significant effect on seed germination.
4181307| On the Karula Upland, South Estonia, the forest moss layer was analysed using a transect of 726 contiguous 0.2  0.2 m plots. The sample plots were classified according to a multistage clustering procedure based on the sequential use of algorithms with different criteria. Several obtained clusters are rather similar in species composition, but abundance relationships among dominant species are distinctly different. For detailed analysis of mutual relations among societies a formal definition of adjacency is proposed, and two aspects of the cluster continuum - transitionality and distinctness - are estimated. It appears that almost all resulting societies are very distinct (P < 0.05), but at the same time can be continual in the sense of transitionality. Spatial changes in vegetation along transects are also discontinuous. The null hypothesis assuming the independency of neighbouring sample plots type was refuted with P = 0.01. The spatial extent of different synusiae is typically several times larger than it should be if there were no structure in moss vegetation. 
4180561|Three species of Euphorbia (E. granulata, E. prostrata and E. hirta) exhibited both morphological and physiological adaptations in dry environmental conditions. High bound water, thick cuticle, dense hair covering and low stomatal index are some of the survival adaptations they developed under water stress conditions of the Indian arid zone.
4180070|Zonation of grassland lying behind a coastal lagoon in Ghana is described, and related to seasonal fluctuations in moisture, chlorinity and aeration. The distribution of similar vegetation on the West African coast is discussed.
4180283|One new endemic savanna plant species from Cuba, Polygala omissa sp. nov., is described. It is known only from the locality of Yaguramas (Cienfuegos province).
4181120|A new species, Mesadenella meei, found in Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and compared with the other two known species of this genus. The description is based on live plants in nature and culture, alcolol-fixed flowers, and the type specimen. The floral analysis method (Alves 1990) was used to differentiate the floral structures.
4181281|This Index collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1991 591 names have been listed. Each one is accompanied by an appreciation about its validity with respect to the Code of Nomenclature. 25 names are given in addition to the Indexes 1988, 1989 and 1990 (Theurillat & Moravec 1991, 1992, 1993).
4180814| From the sediments of the former Komoansk jezero Lake near Most, pollen analysis of samples linked with archaeological finds has been performed. One reference profile has been pollenanalytically elaborated, followed by pollenanalytical dating of various isolated samples. The samples elaborated were linked with the following cultural periods: of stroked pottery, of funnel beakers, of domestic specimens of Baden pottery, of corded pottery, of the Untice culture, and of the Middle Ages. A reconstruction of the natural surroundings in various developmental epochs, especially that of the vegetation, has been performed in the locality, in its close vicinity and in more distant neighbourhoods (Komoansk jezero Lake, the Podkrunohorsk pnev Basin, the Krun hory Mountains, the esk stedoho Mountains). The results refer to the Atlantic, Subboreal and Subatlantic periods. The differentiation of the Subboreal in the area under study is still uncertain. /// Es wurden Proben aus dem Komoansk jezero-See, die in irgendwelcher Weise mit den archologischen Funden im Zusammenhang waren, palynologisch verarbeitet. Um ein palynologisch-stratigraphisches Schema zu erzielen, wurde gleichzeitig ein ganzes Profil (PK-1-D) analysiert. Die Auswertung und Datierung der archologischen Funde unternahm Dr. E. Neustupn, CSc. (Archologisches Institut der Tschechoslowakischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, Prag). Die Ergebnisse der palynologisch-archologischen Zusammenarbeit knpften an die Absichten von Prof. K. Rudolph und Dr. H. Losert an, die sich um dasselbe schon in den dreissiger Jahren ebenfalls an den Proben aus dem Komoansk jezero-See bemht haben. Die palobotanischen Analysen hatten zum Ziel das relative Alter der analysierten Proben zu ermitteln und eine Synchronisierung mit dem archologischen Datieren durchzufhren. Zugleich wurde die Entwicklung des Sees und seiner Vegetation rekonstruiert. Es wurde auch eine Rekonstruktion wie der nahen Umgebung, d. h. des Krun hory-Vorlandbeckens, so der weiteren Umgebung, d. h. des Krun hory-Gebirges und des Gebirges esk stedoho vorgenommen. In der vorliegenden Arbeit wird ber das Problem der sich steigernden Widersprche zwischen der Chronologie von Firbas, deren sich die tschechoslowakischen Palynologen bedienen und den Schlussfolgerungen, die am Beispiel des Komoansk jezero-Sees Neustupn (1985) zieht, diskutiert. Palynologisch wurden diejenigen Proben ausgewertet, die eine Beziehung zu den archologischen Funden aus der Kultur der Stichbandkeramik, aus der Trichterbecherkultur, aus der bhmischen Badenerkultur, der Schnurkeramik, der Aunjetitzer Keramik und der mittelatlerlichen Keramik hatten. Die Resultate der Pollenanalysen von Proben P 93 und P 94 deuteten auf eine ungenaue Datierung eines problematischen Fundes hin, der nachher revidiert und der Zeitspanne der Aunjetitzer Keramikkultur zugeordnet wurde. Es war auch erst die Pollenanalyse, die eine undekorierte Scherbe aus dem Fund NS 19 unter Proben der Stichbandkeramikkultur eingereiht hat. Die Pollenanalyse ermglichte ebenfalls die vom Randgebiet des ehemaligen Komoansk jezero-Sees stammenden Proben von denen, die in seinen zentralen Partien deponiert waren, zu unterscheiden. Die Rekonstruktion der Entwicklung des Lagers, der Vegetationsverhltnisse und der Umwelt an der Lokalitt selbst und in ihrer Umgebung wurde fr das jngere Atlantikum und die nachfolgenden Perioden bis zum Mittelalter durchgefhrt. Das jngere Atlantikum: den wesentlichen Teil der Lokalitt nahm der See ein, mit reicher Vertretung von Wassermakrophyten (z. B. Trapa natans, Nuphar sp. div., Nymphaea sp. div., Ceratophyllum sp. div., Myriophyllum spicatum u. a.). Hufig waren Algae (Arten der Gattungen: Pediastrum, Scenedesmus, Coelastrum, Botryococcus, Tetraedron) vorhanden. Von den Rndern des Sees an begann der Verlandungsprozess des Wasserbeckens mit Schilf- und Erlengesellschaften. Im Krun hory-Vorlandsbecken berwog die Eichenmischwaldgesellschaft. In den Gipfelpartien des Krun hory-Gebirges wurden die Bestnde von der Fichte gebildet, an den Hngen dann vom Eichenmischwald. Die Gesellschaften mit der Eiche bildeteten den Grundteil der Waldbestnde des Gebirges esk stedoho. In das jngere Atlantikum gehrt den Ergebnissen der Pollenanalysen nach die Kultur der Stichbandkeramik. Subboreal I: In dem Raum, wo die meisten archologischen Funde vorgekommen sind, war in dieser Phase der See schon verlandet. An seiner ursprnglichen Flche breiteten sich Erlen- und Schilfbestnde aus. Die Nhe eines offenen Wasserbeckens beweisen jedoch Pollenfunde der Wasserarten und der Algenznobien in einem Krug aus der Zeit der Trichterbecherkultur, dessen Inhalt noch im Seebiotop im Zentralteil des Sees abgelagert wurde. Am Grund des Krun hory-Vorlandsbeckens befanden sich Nasswiesengesellschaften und Gesellschaften der Eichenmischwlder, die auch an die Hnge des Krun hory-Gebirges und in das Gebirge esk stedoho bergriffen haben. In den Gipfelpartien des Krun hory-Gebirges drang die Fichte in den Vordergrund, in den Mittellagen dieses Gebirges breitete sich rasch die Buche aus und langsam drang in die Landschaft die Tanne vor. Den Ergebnissen der Pollenanalysen entsprechend gehrt in das Subboreal I die Kultur der Trichterbecherkeramik und die bhmische Badenerkeramik. Subboreal II: Am Entnahmeort der analysierten Proben befanden sich Erlenwlder. Auf einen bedeutenden Kronenschluss deutet das nur vereinzelte Vorkommen von Krutern hin. Anwesend waren vor allen die Farnkruter. Im Krun hory-Vorlandbecken berwogen alluviale Gesellschaften, von schilfartigen Nasswiesenbestnden ber Erlenwlder bis zu Gesellschaften mit berwiegender Eiche. Die Eichenmischwlder bedeckten die Hnge des Krun hory-Gebirges und bildeten den Hauptbestandteil der Pflanzendecke des Gebirges esk stedoho. In den mittleren und wahrscheinlich auch in den hheren Lagen des Krun hory-Gebirges kam es zur Expansion der Tanne und der Buche. Ihre Bestnde verdrngten die Fichte in hhere Lagen und rckten die obere Grenze der Eichenwlder in die niedrigeren. Die ursprnglichen, meistens berwiegenden Laubwlder des Gebirges esk stedoho, waren bereits wesentlich durch anthropische Eingriffe beeinflusst. Nachweislich war hier schon die Weissbuche vorhanden. Nach den palynologischen Resultaten gehrt in diese Zeitspanne die Kultur der Schnurkeramik und die der Aunjetitzer Keramik. lteres Subatlantikum: Der berwiegende Teil der Flche des Komoansk jezero-Sees war von Schilfbestnden und Erlenwldern bewachsen. An den Stellen, wo der Grossteil der archologischen Funde gewonnen wurde, berwogen Erlenwlder. Im zentralen Teil der Lokalitt berdauerte jedoch ein Rest des ursprnglichen Sees immer noch. Im Krun hory-Vorlandsbecken waren alluviale Gesellschaften und Eichenwlder verbreitet. Das Gebirge esk stedoho war ziemlich entwaldet und in den vorhandenen Bestnden dominierten Laubgehlze der ursprnglichen Eichenwlder. Der Charakter der Vegetation des Krun hory-Gebirges war durch Buchen-Tannenbestnde bestimmt, in hheren Lagen mit der Fichte, in den niedrigeren mit der Eiche. Im Sediment aus diesem Zeitraum (seines jngeren Abschnittes) wurden mittelalterliche Scherben gefunden, die hierher jedoch sekundr hineingelangt sind. Jngeres Subatlantikum: Aus dem ursprnglichen Seebiotop berdauerten nur noch unbedeutende Reste, die eher einen Nasswiesencharakter aufwiesen. Die ursprnglichen Bestnde im Becken und im Raum des esk stedoho-Gebirges waren bereits wesentlich vom Menschen beeinflusst. Im Krun hory-Gebirge berwogen immer noch die Buchen-Tannen- und Tannen-Buchenbestnde mit der Fichte. Im Mittelalter waren jedoch die niedrigeren und mittleren Lagen des Krun hory-Gebirges schon bedeutend von der Entwaldung betroffen. Die Wassererosion, die nach diesem Eingriff eingetreten ist, usserte sich durch eine Anschwemmung des anorganischen Materials in den Raum des Komoansk jezero-Sees, was zu seiner endgltigen Verlandung beigetragen hat. Die pollenanalytischen Resultate lieferten nun schon mehr Unterlagen, die die landwirtschaftliche Ttigkeit des Menschen besttigen. Es wurde das Anbauen von Triticum und Secale nachgewiesen und das Vorkommen von Pollen der synanthropen Vegetation - Unkraut- und Ruderalarten - stieg an. Die Vegetationsverhltnisse des Mittelalters werden eingehender besprochen. Es wurden Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen aus dem Komoansk jezero-See mit den Schlussfolgerungen der Pollenanalysen von Proben aus der mittelalterlichen Stadt Most verglichen. Der Gipfel des Mittelalters im Gebiet um Most usserte sich durch eine bedeutende Vertretung des Getreide-, Unkraut- und Ruderalpollens. Diese Zeitspanne wurde jedoch bei der Bearbeitung einzelner Proben aus den archologischen Funden aus dem Komoansk jezero-See nicht festgehalten, sie kam aber in den oberen Partien des Profils PK-1-B und in den Ablagerungenaus der mittelalterlichen Stadt Most deutlicher zur Geltung. 
4181015|The mean above-ground biomass of reed, Phragmites australis, in closed South Swedish stands was found to be 1 kg dry weight
4181079| The paper deals with the vegetation of village settlements at the territory of the Bohemian Karst. In the first part of this study, syntaxonomy of ruderal communities is presented. Deductive method of syntaxonomical classification was applied. An attempt for numerical evaluation of a species diagnostic value in phytosociology is presented. Discussion remarks on the current state of ruderal phytosociology are included. /// Bei der syntaxonomischen Bearbeitung der Vegetation der drflichen Siedlungen des Bhmischen Karsts mit Hilfe der deduktiven Methode konnten 20 Gesellschaften im Range von Assoziationen ausgeschieden werden. Weitere 21 sind als Basal- oder Derivatgesellschaften verschiedenen hheren Syntaxa zuzuordnen. Fr folgende Einheiten wird eine neue Auffassung der Klassifikation vorgeschlagen: Dg. Falcaria vulgaris-[Dauco-Melilotion], Dg. Geranium pratense-[Galio-Urticetea/Arrhenatheretalia], Bg. Potentilla anserina-[Agropyro-Rumicion crispi], Bg. Lolium perenne-Plantago major-[Polygonion], Bg. Geranium pratense-[Arrhenatheretalia]. Nur 18% der durch die Vegetation drflicher Siedlungen bedeckten Flchen nehmen Gesellschaften von Assoziationsrang ein (Pyek 1992). Am hufigsten sind die Gesellschaften der Klassen Galio-Urticetea und Plantaginetea majoris. In der Arbeit wird die Mglichkeit diskutiert, den nach der deduktiven Methode beschriebenen Gesellschaften keine Autorennamen anzufgen und die syntaxonomischen bersichten eines gewissen Gebietes frei im Sinne einer "phytoznologischen Inventarisierung" zu benutzen; dies auch um den Preis eines gewissen Verlustes an bersichtlichkeit des phytoznologischen Systems. Die Benutzung des Levins-Index der "Nischenbreite" ermglicht es, die Bindung der Arten an eine Gesellschaft numerisch auszudrcken. Die strkste Konzentration der Vorkommen wurde bei denjenigen Arten festgestellt, die fr Assoziationskennarten gehalten werden. 
4180019|The paper deals with the differential germination in seeds of Sesbania bispinosa (Jacq.) W. F. Wight (Leguminosae) collected in different months ranging from monsoonal (September) to postmonsoonal (November) periods. The seeds of different batches showed different germination behaviour.
4180686| Agropyron repens (L.) P. B. and Calamagrostis epigejos (L.) Roth belong to species with a very wide ecological and phytocoenological amplitude which have spread secondarily to anthropogenic habitats of various origin and different ecological properties. With regard to the definition of association adopted by the International Botanical Congress in Amsterdam (1935), the plant communities dominated by these species cannot be typified at the level of association. Using the deductive method of syntaxonomic classification, however, these communities may be referred, as derivate communities, to various higher units of the present system. This method reflects synecological and syngenetic differences among the individual types of communities. /// Eine syntaxonomische Klassifizierung der Pflanzengesellschaften, die nur aus Arten mit breiter kologischer und znologischer Amplitude zusammengesetzt sind, stsst auf bestimmte methodische Schwierigkeiten. Wenn wir folgerichtig die Klassifikationsprinzipien der Braun-Blanquetschen Schule respektieren wollen, knnen wir diesen Gemeinschaften kaum den Assoziationsrang (im Sinne der bisher geltenden, am botanischen Kongress im Amsterdam 1935 vereinbarten Definition dieser Einheit) zusprechen. Agropyron repens und Calamagrostis epigejos, die sich in unserer Kulturlandschaft weit ausgebreitet haben, treten als Dominanten in verschiedene anthropisch bedingte Artenverbindungen ein. So gehrt z. B. die Quecke zu den steten Arten zahlreicher Gemeinschaften der Chenopodietea, Artemisietea vulgaris, Galio-Urticetea, Plantaginetea majoris, Festuco-Brometea und Molinio-Arrhenatheretea. Die vorgelegte Arbeit stellt einen Versuch dar, die ruderalen A. repens- und C. epigejos-Gesellschaften unter Anwendung der sog. deduktiven Klassifikationsmethode systematisch zu bearbeiten. Im Sinne dieser Methode werden sie als Derivatgesellschaften angesehen, die zu verschiedenen, durch eigenen Kenn- und Trennarten gengend abgrenzbaren hheren Einheiten des gegenwrtigen Systems gehren. Die extrem artenarmen, als relativ stabilisierte Stadien der fortschreitenden sekundren Sukzession entstehenden Gemeinschaften mit hochdominierenden A. repens oder C. epigejos, werden in der Ebene der Abteilung (Divisio) Convolvulo-Chenopodiea Krippelov 1978 eingereiht. Die brigen, kologisch und entwicklungsmssig "enger spezialisierten" Gemeinschaften werden nach ihrem realen Artengefge zu verschiedenen hheren Einheiten (z. B. Sisymbrietalia, Onopordetalia, Dauco-Melilotion, Arrhenatheretalia, Festuco-Brometea) gestellt. In der sdwestlichen Umgebung von Praha wurden folgende Gesellschaftstypen abgetrennt: A. repens-[Sisymbrietalia] auf mechanisch oft gestrten und periodisch umgeschichteten Bden; A. repens-[Dauco-Melilotion] auf lteren, neu umgeschichteten und eingeebneten Erdaufschttungen im Bereich von grossen Baustellen; A. repens-[Festuco-Brometea] auf stark austrocknenden Aufschttungsbden der Weg- und Strassenbschungen, lteren Brachflchen und hnlichen Standorten in den wrmsten Teilen des untersuchten Gebietes; A. repens-[Arrhenatheretalia] auf mssig austrocknenden bis frischen Bden ltere Brachflchen, Strassenbschungen usw; C. epigejos-[Arrhenatheretalia] auf Aufschttungsbden der Strassenbschungen. Die extrem artenarmen A. repens- und C. epigejos-Bestnde auf Aufschttungsbden verschiedener Eigenschaften werden als syntaxonomisch nicht differenzierte A. repens-[Convolvulo-Chenopodiea] und C. epigejos-[Convolvulo-Chenopodiea]-Gesellschaften gehalten. 
4181028| A survey of units of ruderal vegetation in the territory of Bohemia is presented. In the processing, the deductive method of syntaxonomical classification was used. This method is based on the classification principles of the Braun-Blanquet school and represents its further development. It makes possible syntaxonomical processing of communities which cannot be typified within the rank of associations. The communities are typified in the following abstract units: 1. association, 2. basal community, 3. derivate community. The communities typified in this way are ranged in the "auxiliary network" of higher syntaxa of the phytocenological system (alliances, orders and classes). /// Es werden die Ergebnisse einer syntaxonomischen Bearbeitung der Ruderal-pflanzengesellschaften Bhmens angefhrt, die unter Anwendung der sog. deduktiven Methode durchgefhrt wurde. Diese Methode, die an die Braun-Blanquetsche Schule anknpft, ermglicht eine Eingliederung aller bisher bekannten Gesellschaften in das gegenwrtige phytoznologische System. Im Sinne der deduktiven Methode wurden die Gesellschaften in nachfolgenden abstrakten Grundeinheiten typisiert: 1. Assoziation, 2. Basalgesellschaft, 3. Derivatgesellschaft. Die unterschiedenen Gesellschaftstypen werden nach ihrer realen Artenzusammensetzung in das "Hilfsnetz" der hheren Syntaxa (Verbnde, Ordnungen und Klassen) eingegliedert. Neben den Gesellschaften der Bidentetea tripartitae, Chenopodietea, Artemisietea vulgaris, Galio-Urticetea und Plantaginetea majoris sind in der bersicht der Vegetationseinheiten auch die auf ruderalen Standorten vorkommenden Gemeinschaften der Sedo-Scleranthetea, Nardo-Callunetea, Festuco-Brometea, Molinio-Arrhenatheretea und Mulgedio-Aconitetea eingegliedert. Die den Namen der Einheiten beigefhrten Autorenzitate bezeichnen die gltigen Erstbeschreibungen, die wenigstens durch eine Vegetationsaufnahme belegt sind. Die betreffenden Verffentlichungen sind im Literaturverzeichnis angefhrt. Die neu beschriebenen Assoziationen, Basal- und Derivatgesellschaften werden durch eine Aufnahme eines typischen Bestandes oder durch den Hinweis auf frher verffentlichte Aufnahmen charakterisiert. 
4180505|A new Zornia species from Cuba, the endemic Zornia arenicola sp. nova, is described. It was found on moving sand dunes between the town of Guane and the village of Cortes (Pinar del Rio province).
4180674|Karyological analysis of Oenothera species and stabilized hybrids from Czechoslovakia confirms chromosome number 2n = 14 for all 21 taxa investigated. The cytological data of 3 specific and 5 intraspecific taxa are published for the first time. Chromosome configurations during microsporogenesis are determined in 5 taxa.
4180790|The primary succession of vegetation (higher plants) was studied on large dumps from brown coal mining in N.W. Bohemia, Czechoslovakia. Three differently aged stages were investigated (1977-1986), using permanent plots and transects. Changes in the species composition, the participation of life forms, and the species diversity were expressed on the basis of cover data for a period of 30 years of the succession. The data were processed by an ordination technique (DCA).
4179673| Die beschriebene Gattung Gyalideopsis gen. nov. umfasst vier bisher festgestellten Arten: G. peruviana Merr. ex Vzda sp. n., G. anastomosans P. James et Vzda sp. n., G. athalloides (Nyl.) Vzda comb. n. und G. muscicola P. James et Vzda sp. n. Die Einreihung der Gattung Gyalideopsis in die Familie Asterothyriaceae (sensu Santesson) sowie die systematische Stellung dieser Familie werden kurz behandelt. /// The new genus Gyalideopsis is characterised by the following features: 1. An excipulum which lacks any secondary differentiation into a parathecium and amphithecium and which is entirely composed of slender, anastomosing and ramifying hyphae. 2. A non-amyloid Hymenium. 3. A conspicuous gelatinous hymeneal matrix through which the thin paraphysoides anastomose and ramify as in the adjacent excipulum. 4. Asci with an apical apparatus in the form of a nasse. 5. Hyaline spores which are either transversely septate or muriform, the individual cells of which are more or less constricted at their juncture with adjacent cells. 6. A chlorococcoid phycobiont. The new genus superficially resembles Gyalidea Lett. from which it may be readily distinguished by the delicate paraphysoidal nerwork in place of the simple, true paraphyses of that genus. However Gyalideopsis is most closely allied to Tricharia Fe and Calenia Mll. Arg. which belong to the family Asterothyriaceae sensu Santesson. It is therefore proposed that the new genus Gyalideopsis be placed in this family. Some observations on the systematic position of the Asterothyriaceae suggest that the family has affinities with certain groups of the Graphidales. Four species of Gyalideopsis are known; of these three, G. peruviana Merr. ex Vzda, G. anastomosans P. James et Vzda, and G. muscicola P. James et Vzda, are newly described, and one, G. athalloides (Nyl.) Vzda, is a new combination. /// Le nouveau genre Gyalideopsis est essentiellement caractris par les particularits suivantes: 1. Excipulum constitu d'hyphes minces, ramifies et anastomoses, sans diffrentiations secondaires (parathcium ou amphithcium), 2. Hymnium non amyloid, 3. Glatine hymniale abondamment parcourue de paraphysoides grles, ramifies et anastomoses, de mme structure que les hyphes de l'excipulum, 4. Asques a l'appareil apical  nasse, 5. Spores hyalines aux cloisons transversales ou murales, plus ou moins rtrcies au niveau des cloisons, 6. Phycobionte chlorococcoide. Ce genre prsente des relations de proche parent avec le genre Gyalidea Lett., dont il se distingue par la prsence de paraphysoides  la place de vritables paraphyses. En mme temps il est surtout voisin des genres Tricharia Fe et Calenia Mll. Arg., qui appartiennent  la famille Astrothyriaces sensu Santesson. C'est pourquoi on propose de placer dans cette famille, le nouveau genre Gyalideopsis. Suivent quelques remarques sur la position systmatique des Astrothyriaces qui montrent des relations de parent certaines avec quelques groupes de Graphidales. Jusqu'ici quatre espces du genre Gyalideopsis sont connues, parmi lesquelles trois sont nouvellement dcrites et une quatrime qui constitue une combinaison nouvelle: G. peruviana Merr. ex Vzda sp. n., G. anastomosans P. James et Vzda sp. n., G. muscicola P. James et Vzda sp. n. et G. athalloides (Nyl.) Vzda comb. n. 
4181065|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1988, 297 names have been listed. For each one of them, an appreciation about its validity is given relating to the Code of Nomenclature. 17 names are given in addition to the Index 1987 (Theurillat et Moravec 1990).
4180088| In Bulgarien kreuzt sich Pyrus elaeagrifolia Pall. subsp. elaeagrifolia sowie subsp. bulgarica (Kuthath. et Sachok.) Valev in betrchtlichem Masse mit Pyrus communis L. and P. pyraster Burgsd., mit denen sie gemeinsam hier wachsen. Die Hybriden sind normal fruchtbar, und es wurden fnf Kombinationen von ihnen beschrieben. Vereinzelt beteiligt sich an der Kreuzung auch P. spinosa Forsk. (Syn. P. amygdaliformis Vill.), u. zw. an den Kontaktstellen des Areals von P. elaeagrifolia mit dem Areal von P. spinosa; drei Kombinationen wurden beschrieben. Es wurde auch die Verbreitung beider Subspezies von P. elaeagrifolia und deren Hybriden in Bulgarien ermittelt. /// In Bulgaria Pyrus elaeagrifolia Pall. hybridizes to a remarkable extent with other species. At two localities 10.1 and 33.3% of hybrids were found in the total sum of pear-trees. Between P. elaeagrifolia subsp. elaeagrifolia and P. elaeagrifolia subsp. bulgarica (Kuthath. et Sachok.) Valev there are also transitional forms. The hybrids with P. communis L. and P. pyraster Burgsd. produce normal quantities of well germinating seeds. The following hybrids were ascertained: P. elaeagrifolia subsp. elaeagrifolia  pyraster P. elaeagrifolia subsp. bulgarica  pyraster P. communis  elaeagrifolia subsp. elaeagrifolia P. communis  elaeagrifolia subsp. bulgarica P. communis  elaeagrifolia  pyraster There also exist hybrids of transitional forms between both subspecies of P. elaeagrifolia and P. communis or P. pyraster. In places where the distribution areas of P. elaeagrifolia and P. spinosa Forsk. (Syn.: P. amygdaliformis Vill.) contact, the following hybrids were found in single cases: P. elaeagrifolia subsp. elaeagrifolia  spinosa P. elaeagrifolia subsp. bulgarica  spinosa P. communis  elaeagrifolia  spinosa The distribution of both subspecies of P. elaeagrifolia and of their hybrids in Bulgaria has been ascertained preliminarily. 
4181129| In the second part of the study on vegetation of village settlements at the territory of the Bohemian Karst, ecological and successional characteristics of communities are given. Ellenberg indicator values for temperature, moisture, nitrogen and soil reaction were used to investigate habitat conditions. Successional relations of communities are presented. Quantitative data on the composition of vegetation cover were obtained which made it possible to compare the study area with other regions. /// Die quantitativen Angaben ber die Zusammensetzung der Vegetationsdecke wurden nach der Methode der Einheitsflchen gewonnen. Am hufigsten sind die Gesellschaften der Klassen Galio-Urticetea und Plantaginetea majoris anzutreffen. Insgesamt 20% aller Gesellschaften des Bhmischen Karsts gehren zu den seltenen, 30% zeigen Rckgangstendenzen. Es handelt sich dabei meistens um Assoziationen, d.h. kologisch spezialisierte, typisch drfliche Gesellschaften, whrend eine zunehmende Uniformitt der Ruderalvegetation zu beobachten ist. Die Artendiversitt ist bei den Gesellschaften der Ordnung Onopordetalia und der Klasse Chenopodietea am hchsten. Im Sukzessionsverlauf steigt sie anfnglich, obwohl die Artenzahl in den Initialstadien zuerst am hchsten ist und dann sinkt. Znologisch gesttigte Gesellschaften besitzen in der Regel eine hhere Artendiversitt als die ihnen entsprechenden Basal- und Derivatgesellschaften. Das Vorkommen der Therophyten sinkt im Verlaufe der Sukzession, whrend es in der durch Tritt beeinflussten Sukzessionslinie steigt. Die sukzessionsbedingten Vernderungen sind am Anfang am ausgeprgtesten, was durch die sich erhhenden Werte der floristischen hnlichkeit zwischen den aufeinander folgenden Sukzessionsstufen bewiesen wird. Insgesamt entspricht die Ruderalvegetation des Bhmischen Karsts derjenigen mssig xerothermer Gebiete, doch fehlen im Vergleich zu wrmegetnten Gebieten eine Reihe thermophiler Vegetationseinheiten. Der Vergleich mit anderen Gebieten wird durch den Mangel an quantitativen Angaben und durch die unterschiedlichen Methoden und Auffassungen der Autoren erschwert. Die Vegetationsdiversitt eines bestimmten Gebietes kann nicht nur anhand der Anzahl der fr das Gebiet angegebenen Einheiten beurteilt werden. 
4180890| For tall grasslands of Carpathian avalanche troughs with dominant Festuca carpatica (or Poa nemoralis subsp. montana) a new alliance of Festucion carpaticae has been established. Association Festucetum carpaticae Domin 1925 has been introduced into the alliance, with some new localities supported by phytocenological relevs. A new subass. senecietosum nemorensis was described from a forest zone. The plant community with dominant Festuca carpatica of the Roumanian Carpathian Mts. has been separated into a new association Seslerio rigidae-Festucetum carpaticae and further, a new association of the same area Saxifrago heucherifolii-Poetum montanae is described. Synmorfological, synecological, syntaxonomical and synchorological characteristics of the associations are mentioned. 
4180365| Die vorliegende Arbeit befasst sich mit der vegetationskndlichen Analyse eines Bergkiefernmoores in den stlichen Sdalpen, das ungefhr vor 30 Jahren zum Teil kultiviert wurde. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit wird der Vegetationsdynamik und der Besiedlung der verlassenen Torfstiche gewidmet. Zu diesem Zweck wurde eine Technik der Faktoranalyse angewandt. /// The present paper is devoted to the phytosociological study of the plant communities in a Pinus mugo- raised bog in the South-Eastern Alps (North Italy) and particularly to the reconstruction of the vegetation dynamics in primary habitats and in abandoned peat-quarries. The examined bog comprehends typical bog communities (Pino mugo-Sphagnetum and Sphagnetum magellanici) in its central part, in spite of the presence in the corresponding habitats of some "mineral soil water indicator plants" (see Table 1). The peripheric belt shows on the contrary a mire vegetation (Caricetum fuscae). Part of the bog was once exploited for peat quarrying. The quarries were established in 1943 and abandoned in 1946. The evaluation of the vegetation dynamics has been made with aid of a multivariate ordination method (principal component analysis). On the basis of the numerical results it can be concluded that: (i) The primary vegetation dynamics leads from mire vegetation (Caricetum fuscae) through open Sphagnum magellanicum-communities (Sphagnetum magellanici) towards a Pinus mugo-scrub (Pino mugo-Sphagnetum) which can be regarded as a climax community in such bog habitats; (ii) the secondary dynamic sere in abandoned peat-quarries is generally fairly similar to the primary sere; (iii) only in the deepest quarries is a peculiar plant community (Sphagnum teres-Carex elata-association) settled; however it can be argued that such a community is also able to evolve, although slowly, towards Caricetum fuscae and afterwards towards raised bog communities. The vegetation dynamics in primary habitats (a) and in abandoned quarries (b) are represented in Fig. 3. 
4179546| In der Art Vicia sepium L. kann man in Mitteleuropa und in sdlichen Teilen von Nordeuropa drei Varietten unterscheiden: 1. var. sepium mit breiten Blttchen und einem kahlen bis angedrckt behaarten Kelch, 2. var. montana Koch mit schmalen Blttchen und einem kahlen oder zerstreut angedrckt behaarten Kelch, und 3. var. eriocalyx elak. mit breiten bis mittelbreiten Blttchen und einem abstehend langbehaarten Kelch, noch mit einer niedrigen und einer hohen Wuchsform. Bei allen Proben wurde die Chromosomezahl 2n = 14 festgestellt. /// Vicia sepium L. is an Euro-Asiatic species, with regard to the extensive area and to the broad ecological amplitude, not very variable. The larger taxonomic value, which was verified by cultivation in the experimental field, is found in the various forms of the features in the form of the leaflets and in the hairiness of the calyx. The following varieties can be distinguished: 1. var sepium with broad leaflets and glabrous or appressed hairy calyx, 2. var. montana Koch with narrow leaflets and glabrous or sparsely appressed hairy calyx and 3. var. eriocalyx elak. with broad or medium broad leaflets and spreading hairy calyx, this further with a low and with a high form and the forms with broad and narrower leaflets. Var. sepium is distributed in all parts of the area of the species, var. montana Koch particularly in the north-east part of Europe and var. eriocalyx elak. in the north-west part of the area. The number of chromosomes 2n = 14 has been found in all seed samples from various populations and parts of the area. 
4180176| Der Bericht bringt Informationen ber Zustand und Perspektiven der Vegetationskartierung in Europa mit Bezugnahme auf die Erarbeitung einer einheitlichen Vegetationskarte Europas im Massstab 1:3 Mill. im Rahmen der internationalen Zusammenarbeit. Die geplante Vegetationskarte soll auf Grundlage phytoznologischer Merkmale und Methoden erarbeitet werden und die wesentlichen zonal, subzonal, etagal, regional und edaphisch bedingten Strukturen, Besonderheiten und Unterschiede der natrlichen Vegetation einschliesslich der azonalen und extrazonalen Erscheinungen sowie der besonders wichtigen pflanzenhistorischen Gegebenheiten zum Ausdruck bringen. Es wird weiter ber die Formen der Zusammenarbeit und ber die Arbeits- und Organisationsstruktur der Zusammenarbeit an dem Projekt berichtet. 
4179826|A revision of the genus Olpitrichum Atk. was undertaken, revealing three species: O. macrosporum (Farlow ex Sacc.) Sumstine, O. patulum (Sacc. et Berl.) Hol.-Jech. and O. tenellum (Berk. et Curt.) Hol.-Jech. O. macrosporum and O. tenellum occur on decayed cotton bolls, O. patulum on dead rotten wood and bark. Aspergilliform phialosporous state has been found in O. macrosporum and O. patulum.
4180012| Nach Vorbemerkungen ber Umgrenzung und Probeflchenwahl bei den freischwimmenden Wasserwurzler-Gesellschaften werden die diagnostisch wichtigen Arten der Lemnetea sowie Grundstze einer objektiven Abgrenzung und Gliederung artenarmer Syntaxa behandelt. Es folgt eine Zusammenstellung der bisher aus Mitteleuropa bekannt gewordenen 17 Assoziationen einschliesslich ihrer Untergliederung in Subass. und Rassen (s. Tab. 1, 2). Auf Grund coenologischer Verwandtschaftsbeziehungen werden die behandelten Assoziationen zu drei Unterverbnden, in drei Verhnden und Ordnungen innerhalb der Lemnetea (s. S. 13) zusammengefasst. /// At the beginning some preliminary remarks upon structure and choice of plots in pleustic water plant communities are made. Important species of Lemnetea as well as the principles of an objective syntaxonomical order are taken into account. 17 association of Central Europe are described, referring to their coenological individuality and subdivision in subass. and races (s. Tab. 1 and 2): 1. Callitricho-Lemnetum minoris ass. nov. 2. Lemnetum minoris (Oberd. 1957) Mller et Grs 1960 3. Lemno-Spirodeletum W. Koch 1954 4. Spirodelo-Salvinietum Slavni 1956 5. Wolfio-Lemnetum gibbae Bennema 1943 6. Wolffietum arrhizae Miyaw, et J. Tx. 1960 7. Lemno-Azolletum filiculoidis Br.-Bl. 1952 8. Lemno-Azolletum carolinianae (Segal 1965) Nedelcu 1967 9. Ricciocarpetum natantis (Segal 1963) Tx. 1974 10. Lemnetum trisulcae (Kehlh. 1915) Knapp et Stoffers 1962 11. Riccietum fluitantis Slavni 1956 12. Riccietum rhenanae Knapp et Stoffers 1962 13. Lemno-Utricularietum vulgaris So 1928 14. Lemno-Utricularietum australis (Mller et Grs 1960) ass. nov. 15. Spirodelo-Aldrovandetum Borh. et Koml. 1959 16. Lemno-Hydrocharitetum (Oberd. 1957) ass. nov. 17. Stratiotetum aloidis (Now. 1930) Milian 1933 On the basis of coenological affinity the associations are classified in Lemnetalia with Lemnion minoris (suball. Lemnenion gibbae, Azollo-Salvinienion, Lemno-Riccienion), Lemno-Utricularietalia with Utricularion vulgaris and Hydrocharitetalia with Hydrocharition (s. p. 13-14). 
4179765| The formula for calculation of the basic homotoneity-coefficient of sets of phytosociological relevs does not give adequate values for sets of 4 or 3 relevs. Therefore an empirical correction procedure is proposed for the calculation of this coefficient for such small sets of relevs. For sets of 2 relevs the calculation of the basic homotoneity-coefficient gives values equal to Srensen's coefficient of floristic similarity. A simplification of calculation of the basic homotoneity-coefficient for sets of more than 20 relevs is proposed. 
4181386| Pollen analysis of sediments carried off slope-spring mires (Jank I and II) in the Moravskoslezsk Beskydy Mountains made it possible to reconstruct the vegetation in the area over the last millennium. The reconstruction included changes in forest cover and composition, management methods, and changes in landscape from the Middle Ages to the present. Nearly all inferred vegetation changes were most probably anthropogenic. Most of the sediments probably resulted from water-logging following deforestation. Two distinct phases in the vegetation development were inferred. The older phase reflects the natural composition of forests and the original character of the landscape before human impact. Forest communities with dominant Abies, Fagus, and Picea still covered this part of the Moravskoslezsk Beskydy Mountains at the beginning of the Wallachian colonization (end of the 15th century). Other tree species were interspersed, depending on local conditions. The vegetation changed sharply a major way at the transition to the second phase. Deforestation was considerable, many soils became water-logged, and agricultural activity expanded from the lowlands into the mountains. This is shown in the pollen diagrams by the very strong decline of Abies and Fagus, high values of Poaceae and Cyperaceae, and marked increase of cultivated species, weeds of arable fields, grassland species, and, above all, indicators of eutrophicated biotopes. 
4180369| Die Chromosomenzahlen von den tschechoslowakischen Sippen der Gattung Knautia L. sind angegeben: K. drymeia Heuffel subsp. drymeia - 2n = 40 (41, 42), K. slvaca tpnek - 2n = 20, K. arvensis (L.) Coulter subsp. arvensis - 2n = 20, 40 (39, 41), K. arvensis (L.) Coulter s. 1. - 2n = 20, K. kitaibelii (Schult.) Borbs - 2n = 40 (39, 41), K. dipsacifolia Kreutzer subsp. dipsacifolia - 2n = 60, K. dipsacifolia agg. - 2n = 40, 50, 60. Keine taxonomisch wertvolle morphologische Unterschiede zwischen diploiden und tetraploiden Zytotypen von K. arvensis subsp. arvensis wurden gefunden. Fr die Populationen von Pflanzen, deren Morphologie auf Kreuzung oder Introgression zwischen tetraploiden Sippen (K. arvensis subsp. arvensis - 4x, K. drymeia subsp. drymeia, K. kitaibelii und K. dipsacifolia agg.) zeigt, wurden m Einklang mit dieser Voraussetzung die tetraploiden Chromosomenzahlen - 2n = 40 (39, 41) - festgestellt. Einige ungelste taxonomische Fragen hauptschlich ber die diploiden Populationen von K. arvensis s. l. in Bhmen und ber K. dipsacifolia agg. in den Westkarpaten werden diskutiert. /// Chromosome counts of 102 topodemes of Czechoslovak Knautia species are given. Knautia drymeia Heuffel subsp. drymeia and K. kitaibelii (Schult.) Borb. have been found to be tetraploid (2n = 40); K. slovaca tpnek is diploid (2n = 20) and K. dipsacifolia Kreutzer subsp. dipsacifolia is hexaploid (2n = 60). The existence of both diploid and tetraploid populations has been confirmed within the species K. arvensis (L.) Coult. Diploid populations of K. arvensis (L.) Coulter subsp. arvensis have been collected only in the Carpathian region while the tetraploid ones (of the same sub-species) have been found predominantly in Bohemia; they do not penetrate significantly to the Carpathians. The taxonomic discrimination of morphologically and ecologically very similar diploid and tetraploid cytotypes of K. arvensis subsp. arvensis is still impossible in spite of their different distribution. There can be found some vague quantitative differences between the 2x- and 4x-topodemes, but the use of these characters in ploidy level identification without karyological investigation s not efficient. The three diploid (2n = 20) populations of K. arvensis (L.) Coult. s. l. occurring in relic habitats (subalpine cirque, serpentines) differ considerably from each other and from K. arvensis subsp. arvensis as well; the examination of their taxonomic position still leaves much to be desired. The taxonomically intricate Carpathian populations of the K. dipsacifolia-group involve both tetraploid (2n = 40) and hexaploid (2n = 60) plants (the latter chromosome number has not been hitherto recorded in the Carpathians). Only one hexaploid population and one mixed topodeme containing tetraploids, hexaploids and a great amount of probably sterile pentaploids (2n = 50) have been registered in the region explored. Hybridisation and introgression is comparatively abundant amongst the sympatric Knautia taxa of the same ploid level. In Czechoslovakia, this phenomenon occurs at the 4x-ploid level. Actually, tetraploid chromosome counts have been found in populations of plants whose morphological, ecological and chorological features seemed to indicate their expected hybridogeneous origin (K. drymeia subsp. drymeia  K. arvensis agg.; K. arvensis subsp. arvensis-4x  K. kitaibelii: K. dipsacifolia agg.  K. kitaibelii). 
4181350|The species composition of four alpine communities in the north-western Caucasus was subjected to a morphological analysis. The communities are an alpine lichen heath type (ALH), a Festuca varia grassland type (FVG), a Geranium-Hedysarum meadow type (GHM) and a snowbed community (SBC). Eighty-two species were studied, using the following morphological parameters: vegetative mobility, presence of rosettes, architectural model, life form according to Raunkiaer and life form according to Serebryakov. Representation spectra were calculated on the basis of species presence, above-ground phytomass proportion and species frequency. The results show that most alpine species have a low vegetative mobility; a semi-rosette growth form; a sympodial semi-rosette model of shoot formation and that they are characterised by the prevalence of hemicryptophytes. Differences between the four communities were found in the following features: tap-rooted and short-rhizome plants dominate in ALH and, moreover, dense-tussock plants are dominant in the phytomass; short-rhizome (species presence) and dense- tussock plants (phytomass) are dominant in FVG; short-rhizome and loose-tussock plants dominant in GHM; semi-shrub (phytomass basis) and loose-tussock plants are dominant of SBC. Tuberiferous, bulbiferous and monocarpic plants are not important in any of the communities.
4181264|Lycopodium annotinum, a clonal pteridophyte, was grown under canopies formed by various combinations of deciduous Vaccinium myrtillus and evergreen V. vitis-idaea. The canopies differed in red:far-red ratio, with V. myrtillus giving the lowest ratio. The current year's horizontal segments of L. annotinum had the same specific weight in all treatments, but the lengths of the segments were significantly increased when grown under the canopy of V. myrtillus compared with V. vitis-idaea. The number of vertical apices was also increased. Both these responses increased the amount of assimilating structures of L. annotinum when growing under a V. myrtillus canopy. This might be beneficial for the evergreen L. annotinum, since it can then utilize spring and autumn periods when the deciduous V. myrtillus has no leaves.
4179700|Helictotrichon desertorum (Less.) Nevskij is divided into four subspecies, based on the characters of the ligule and indumentum of the sheaths of cauline leaves. A new subspecies - subsp. centroasiaticum Holub - is proposed to cover the Central Asiatic segment of the species.
4181049|This investigation was carried out in an attempt to determine the systematic position of Cicer via DNA/DNA hybridization. The data showed that members of the tribe Vicieae were related to Cicer than to Trifolium and Ononis. It is also showed that Pisum was the nearest species to Cicer. Thus, the data presented in this work recommend the classification of Cicer under Vicieae rather than a separate tribe Cicerideae.
4180342| During 1977 to 1980 the course of flowering and pollen quality were investigated in Salix cinerea, S. fragilis, and S. pentandra, the dominant woody species in a wetland area called "Mokr louky" near Tebo, South Bohemia, Czechoslovakia. Results were compared with basic climatological data, and decisive factors of flowering were estimated. Both S. cinerea and S. pentandra produced morphologically well developed pollen with a high degree of viability. Comparison in twelve habitats showed that the pollen of S. fragilis was very sensitive to climatic factors, and that the marsh habitat "Mokr Louky" was hostile to the generative reproduction of this species. Optimal conditions for pollen germination in vitro were defined for all the three willows. 
4180478|Urtica dioica L. and Rubus fruticosus L. (+ agg.) are widely distributed in Belgian cultivated poplar woods. Using adjusted standardized residuals as an objective measure of preference of a species for ecoparameters, it seems possible to describe the distribution between Urtica and Rubus as coincidental as regards ecological considerations. Both plant species behave obviously as antagonists.
4181057| The article deals with the herbal vegetation of flow and basin watersides in North Korea. Characterizations of associations Polygonetum thunbergii Lohm. et Miyawaki 1962 and Polygonetum sieboldii-hydropiperis Okuda 1978 are given. Persicarietum posumbu, Aeschynomeno-Kummerowietum, Bidens bipinnata-community, Hemarthria sibirica-community, Persicaria dissitiflora-community and Bidens tripartita-community are newly described. All phytosociological relevs were numerically classified by the computer program NUMCLAS. Brief notes on development, ecology and classification of waterside vegetation are mentioned. 
4180504| About 78 foliicolous lichen species were found in a lichen collection from Cuba. Five of these species are established as new taxa: Porina cubana sp. n., P. pocsii sp. n., P. subpilosa sp. n., Tricharia cubana sp. n. and Bacidia ekmanii sp. n. Three new combinations are proposed: Phylloporis multipunctata (Merr. ex R. Sant.) comb. n. (bas.: Porina multipunctata Merr. ex R. Sant.), Phylloporis plytypoda (Mll. Arg.) comb. n. (bas.: Porina platypoda Mll. Arg.) and Calenia aspidota (Vain.) comb. n. (bas.: Ectolechia aspidota Vain.). Taxonomic notes are provided for some taxa, and brief phytogeographical comments are supplied for all the treated species. /// ber die foliikolen Flechten der Insel Kuba war es bisher nur Weniges bekannt. In Santesson's Monographie (Foliicolous Lichens I, 1952) befinden sich Hinweise ber 50 Arten und 3 Varietten der Insel, eine Anzahl, die weit unter der Zahl liegt, die man fr das Wachstum foliikoler Flechten begnstigenden tropischen und subtropischen Regionen der Insel Kuba erwartet. Die vorliegenden Ergebnisse einer taxonomischen Bearbeitung einer Aufsammlung von foliikoler Flechten, gesammelt von Dr. T. Pcs und Dr. A. Borhidi in den Jahren 1978-1980 auf der Insel, erweitern die bisherigen Kenntnisse ber diese Flechtengruppe. Es wird ber 78 Arten dieser Aufsammlung berichtet, von denen 5 Arten als neu beschrieben werden: Porina cubana sp. n., P. pocsii sp. n., P. subpilosa sp. n., Tricharia cubana sp. n. und Bacidia ekmanii sp. n.; neu kombiniert werden 3 Arten: Phylloporis multipunctata (Merr. ex R. Sant.) comb. n. (Bas.: Porina multipunctata R. Sant.). P. platypoda (Mll. Arg.) comb. n. (Bas.: Porina platypoda Mll. Arg.) und Calenia aspidota (Vain.) comb. n. (Bas.: Ectolechia aspidota Vain.). 39 Arten werden erstmalig fr Kuba nachgewiesen. Zu einigen Arten bzw. Gattungen und Familien werden systematische Bemerkungen beigefgt. Bei den foliikolen Porina-Arten der Porina phyllogena-Gruppe werden bitunikat gebaute Asci festgestellt; wegen ihrer systematischen Anschlsse an Strigula-Arten mssen sie aus der Familie Porinaceae (sensu stricto) ausgegliedert und in die Familie Strigulaceae (sensu stricto) berfhrt werden; als selbstndige Gattung aufgefasst, muss die Gruppe den Gattungsnamen Phlylloporis Clements 1909 tragen. Weiters wird auf Grund zahlreicher neuen Funde von Phyllobathelium epiphyllum (Mll. Arg.) Mll. Arg. festgestellt, dass das Pyknidium-Stadium - als Opercularia firma Stirt. beschrieben - eindeutig zu Phyllobathelium epiphyllum gehrt. Die von den anderen Tricharia-Arten systematisch ziemlich isolierte Tricharia vulgaris (Mll. Arg.) R. Sant. wird nher behandelt; ihre anatomisch kompliziert gebauten Hyphophoren werden beschrieben. Bemerkungen zu den Kampylidien von Sporopodium leprieurii Mont. Lopadium flammeum Mll. Arg. und L. gilvum Mll. Arg. werden ebenfalls vorgelegt. Zu allen behandelten Arten werden die Verbreitungsangaben beigefgt. 
4180954|Subspecies names have been studied from the nomenclaturally omitted book Berher, La flore des Vosges, 1887. A commented enumeration containing 107 names published in that book has been compiled. 41 subspecies names have been examined in more detail. Thirteen of Berher's subspecific combinations may be employed in present taxonomic classifications. Nine of Berher's names determine priority of the relevant subspecific epithets (parabasionyms). Two new nomenclatural combinations are proposed: Acetosa alpina subsp. amplexicaulis and Betula alba subsp. glutinosa. More detailed attention has been paid to the problems of names in the group of Rumex arifolius.
4180337| This communication describes a new savanna-like community, the Bletio purpureae-Andropogonetum gracilis Baltov-Tulkov et R. Capote ass. nov., found in the woodless eastern part of the Sierra del Rosario Mountains (western part of Cuba). From the phytosociological point of view, it belongs to the alliance Achlaenion piptostachyae Baltov-Tulkov all. nov., the order Achlaenetalia piptostachyae Baltov-Tulkov ord. nov., and the class Sclerio baldwinii-Andropogonetea gracilis Baltov-Tulkov cl. nov. In the area under study four subassociations were distinguished: the Bletio-Andropogonetum typicum Baltov-Tulkov et R. Capote subass. nov., the B.-A. rhynchosporetosum fascicularis Baltov-Tulkov et R. Capote subass. nov., the B.-A. cassietosum aeschynomenes Baltov-Tulkov et R. Capote subass. nov., and the B.-A. stenandrietosum droseroidis Baltov-Tulkov et R. Capote subass. nov. 
4180356|Seventeen species belonging to Spadicoides Hughes and Diplococcium Grove collected in Central Europe mostly in Czechoslovakia are described and illustrated. Two new species are described in Spadicoides-S. carpatica Hol.-Jech., S. penatium Hol.-Jech. and three new species in Diplococcium-D. bicolor Hol.-Jech., D. insolitum Hol.-Jech. and D. parcum Hol.-Jech.
4181013|Water velocities were measured around water plants in a chalk stream. Low velocities (<
4180776|Palaeogeobotanical evidence of middle Holocene stratigraphic hiatuses in the minerotrophic mires of Czechoslovakia is presented and profiles showing similar phenomenon in other European countries are mentioned. Possible explanations of the middle Holocene and other stratigraphic hiatuses are discussed. The effect of intensive peat decomposition during some successional stages of mire development (above all the carr vegetation stages) is regarded as one cause.
4180654| Two ruderal seam communities, the Lactuco-Anthriscetum caucalidis and Anthrisco-Asperugetum procumbentis, are described in Slovakia. Both communities occur on loess in regions of warm and dry climate. Besides the species of the Galio-Alliarietalia, those of the Sisymbrietalia and Artemisietalia design the floristical composition of the communities. Numerical classification and ordination techniques were adopted to clarify systematic relations of the communities and show the structure of the revealed clusters. A comparison of the results of the numerical methods and the syntaxonomical table synthesis has been performed and briefly discussed. /// In der Arbeit sind zwei Ruderalsaumgesellschaften des Verbandes Galio-Alliarion und zwar Lactuco-Anthriscetum caucalidis und Anthrisco-Asperugetum beschreiben. Sie sind auf Lss in Gebieten mit warmem und trockenem Klima auf der Donau- und der Ostslowakischen Tiefebene vorhanden. Die Artenzusammensetzung der Gesellschaften wird ausser von Galio-Alliarietalia- auch durch Sisymbrietalia- und Artemisietalia-Arten bestimmt. Das Lactuco-Anthriscetum ist fr die Slowakei neu. Das Anthrisco-Asperugetum ist in geographische Rassen mit Anisantha sterilis und Anisantha tectorum aufgegliedert. Auf Grund der Sammeltabelle wird in der Diskussion zu den Gesellschaften mit Anthriscus caucalis und Asperugo procumbens, die in der Literatur beschrieben sind, Stellung genommen. Zur Klrung der syntaxonomischen Beziehungen der Gesellschaften wurden numerische Klassifikations- und Ordinationsmethoden verwendet. 
4181032| The following eleven species currently classified in the genera Bacidia s. lat. and Catillaria s.lat. are transferred to the new genus Bacidina Vzda gen. n. (Lecideaceae s. lat.): Bacidina apiahica (Mll. Arg.) comb. n., B. chloroticula (Nyl.) Vzda et Poelt comb. n., B. egenula (Nyl.) comb. n., B. inundata (Fr.) comb. n., B. mirabilis (Vzda) comb.n., B. neglecta (Vzda) comb.n., B. pallidocarnea (Mll.Arg.) comb.n., B. phacodes (Koerb.) comb.n., B. scutellifera (Vzda) comb.n., B. vasakii (Vzda) comb.n., and B. ziamensis (Vzda) comb.n. 
4181163|The grassland vegetation of the Middle Lena valley is described. The syntaxonomy of floodplain grassland vegetation includes 19 associations of five classes (Cleistogenetea squarrosae, Hordeetea brevisubulati, Calamagrostietea langsdorffii, Phragmiti-Magnocaricetea, Thero-Salicomietea). An example of a typical Lena-river floodplain ridge-hollow vegetation complex is shown. Most of the syntaxa reflect the peculiarity of the East-Siberian vegetation and are absent from Europe. The geographical distribution of these syntaxa is described. The relation of the vegetation of different parts of the floodplain to the vegetation of the alases of Central Yakutia is discussed.
4180926| The paper presents the results of phytocoenological studies of the helophyte vegetation occupying the litoral zone of three North Italian glacial lakes and of the tall-forb communities occurring on the Adige riverside. It uses the method of the Zrich-Montpellier school. The association complex occupying the littoral zone of Lake Caldaro, above all the associations of Cladietum marisci, Caricetum elatae, Juncetum subnodulosi, Schoenetum nigricantis, and Selino-Molinietum caeruleae resembles those of  mesotrophic, calcium rich prealpine lakes studied in Switzerland, West Germany and Austria. On the other hand, the majority of the communities occurring in the littoral of the great Lake Monticolo are of dystrophic-mesotrophic character, manifested above all in the occurrence of Caricetum diandrae, Peucedano-Caricetum lasiocarpae, and Caricetum elatae comaretosum, all with boreal distribution. The tall-forb association Lysimachio vulgaris-Filipenduletum has developed in the Adige riverside from Calthenion and / or from Magnocaricetalia communities as a result of interruption of mowing. 
4179520| The paper gives the chromosome numbers of 45 species from 72 Mongolian localities, belonging to the genera: Amygdalus, Asparagus, Astragalus, Cancrinia, Caragana, Chamaerhodos, Chelidonium, Chesneya, Dianthus, Hypecoum, Lathyrus, Lilium, Oxytropis, Papaver, Potentilla, Schizonepeta, Sibbaldia, Thermopsis, Trifolium, Trigonella, Vicia. Chromosome morphology of three species of Chamaerhodos and taxonomical remarks on some other species are added. A new combination Sibbaldia sericea (Grubov) Sojk is proposed. /// 1. Die Chromosomenzahlen von 45 Arten, die an 72 mongolischen Fundorten gesammelt wurden, sind in der Tabelle 1 auf S. 56-59 angegeben. 2. Bei einer Anzahl von Arten wurde die Chromosomenzahl zum erstenmal ermittelt. Die von den bisher bekannten Angaben abweichenden Chromosomenzahlen wurden bei folgenden Arten festgestellt: Dianthus versicolor, Potentilla gelida, Trifolium eximium. 3. Es wurden die Karyotypen folgender Arten untersucht: Chamaerhodos altaica, C. erecta, C. sabulosa, Chelidonium majus, Chesneya mongolica, Sibbaldia sericea, Vicia baicalensis, V. costata. 4. Die wichtigsten taxonomischen Schlussfolgerungen: a) Der in den europischen Grten unter dem Namen P. nudicaule L. gezchtete Mohn ist mit dem echten P. nudicaule s. str. cytologisch nicht identisch. b) Die ermittelten Chromosomenzahlen bei Potentilla crebridens, P. evestita und P. gelida sind nicht im Widerspruch mit dem vorausgesetzten hybridogenen Ursprung der mongolischen P. evestita aus der Kombination P. crebridens  P. gelida. c) Die Verfasser sind der Ansicht, dass die Trennung der Gattungen Sibbaldianthe und Sibbaldia unhaltbar ist. Es wurde eine neue nomenklatorische Kombination Sibbaldia sericea (Grubov) Sojk vorgeschlagen. 5. Bei Potentilla pamirica wurde das gesamte Verbreitungsareal przisiert. Potentilla crebridens ist als neu fr die Flora der Mongolei und China, Papaver canescens fr die Mongolei angegeben. 
4180280| In the frame work of the SAMDENE project part of the coastal dune vegetation of the Western Desert of Egypt was studied using various field methods and multivariate analysis techniques. The results were compared with those of an earlier study carried out three years before, predating the protective fencing of the area. In the field methods cover-abundance estimates and frequency data were most efficient, while PCA showed to be the most powerful analysis technique. Three years of protective fencing had resulted in a slightly more homogeneous vegetation pattern in the area. /// Im Rahmen des SAMDENE-Projektes wurde die Vegetation eines eingezunten Teiles des Kstendnenkosystems der westlichen Wste gyptens untersucht. Verschiedene Feldmethoden und multivariate Analysetechniken wurden in dieser Studie verglichen nach ihrer Zweckmssigkeit und ihrer Brauchbarkeit um die kologischen Beziehungen der natrlichen Einheiten des Gebietes zu erforschen. Auch wurden unsere Daten verglichen mit den Ergebnissen einer drei Jahre vorher durchgefhrten Untersuchung, als das Gebiet noch nicht eingezaunt war. Artmchtigkeitsschtzungen nach Braun-Blanquet erwiesen sich als die zweckmssigste Feldmethode, gefolgt durch die Frequenz-Methode. Sie ergaben auch die beste Einsicht in die Resultate der multivariaten Analysetechniken. Von diesen Techniken erwies sich die Hauptkomponentenanalyse unter Verwendung eines euklidischen Distanzkoeffizients am erfolgreichsten. Drei Jahre protektiver Einfriedung haben nur einen sehr beschrnkten Einfluss auf die Vegetation gehabt. Das Vegetationsmuster wurde etwas einheitlicher, wahrscheinlich weil der vormalige niedrige Beweidungsdruck, der ja selektiv wirkt, die Diversitt in der Vegetation gefrdert hatte. 
4180613|Seasonal occurrence and abundance of microfungi at three different depths in tropical forest soils of Delhi were studied using the soil dilution and soil plate techniques. Surface layer in all the soil types exhibited the highest population and species number which gradually declined with depth increase. In total, 58 genera comprising 118 species were isolated of which the Deuteromycetes was represented by 38 genera and 90 species, the Phycomycetes by 10 genera and 18 species, the Ascomycetes by 6 genera and 8 species, and the Basidiomycetes and Myxomycetes by single genus and species. Besides the surface vegetation, the edaphic and environmental factors had a profound influence on the occurrence and distribution of microfungi at various depths of soils.
4180792|Phytomass distribution and species diversity were followed in a chalk grassland with different selective clipping treatments during 4 years. Removal of the dominant Brachypodium resulted in a sharp increase in forb phytomass and in species number. The dominance-diversity curve changed in shape from geometric to log-normal. Obviously, Brachypodium restricted the growth of most other species. Removal of all species except the dominant showed, in contrast to the niche pre-emption theory, a marked increase in phytomass and reproductive effort of Brachypodium. It seems that other mechanisms can also lead to a geometric distribution. Removal in a type of vegetation without obvious dominants and with a log-normal species distribution revealed that interspecific competition is not an important factor in this vegetation. This suggested a low intensity of species interaction and a large influence of restricting density-independent factors. Finally, to reduce the dominance of Brachypodium we implemented a 4-year mowing experiment. Mowing earlier in the season resulted in a reduced exclusion of species by Brachypodium. This alternative mowing time may be sufficient to restore species diversity in chalk grassland. Experiments are under way to further substantiate this conclusion.
4180175| Germination and seedling growth were studied on seven Cassia species with relation to salt solutions of different osmotic potential (s). C. angustifolia, C. italica and C. pumila are more resistant to low osmotic potential and C. tora, C. auriculata, C. occidentalis and C. obtusifolia are very sensitive. 
4180928| (Bellevalia ciliata was recorded in north-east Bulgaria south of the Dobrudsha, within field and steppe vegetation. Vegetation records and a distribution map are presented. Based on taxonomic studies it is proposed to combine B. ciliata, B. sarmatica (Pall.) Wor. and B. speciosa Wor. under the oldest name B. ciliata (Cyr.) Nees. /// Im Mai 1986 wurde Bellevalia ciliata (Cyr.) Nees in der sdlichen Dobrudsha (NO-Bulgarien) gefunden. Die Art ist neu fr Bulgarien, abgesehen von einer unsicheren Angabe aus dem Jahre 1937. Das Vorkommen der Art wird kurz beschrieben und pflanzengeographisch charakterisiert. Untersuchungen an Lebendund Herbarmaterial sowie Betrachtungen zur Chorologie ergaben, dass die bislang gefhrten Sippen Bellevalia ciliata (Cyr.) Nees, B. sarmatica (Pall.) Wor. und B. speciosa Wor. einer Art zuzuordnen sind (nach dem ltesten Basionym: B. ciliata (Cyr.) Nees). 
4181517| Morphometric and karyological analysis was employed to prove the occurrence of a population of Sesleria sadleriana Janka, at the locality "Vratec" in the Biele Karpaty Mts. (Slovakia). Morphological characters of this population were analysed statistically (ANOVA, PCA) and compared with those of a population of S. sadleriana in Austria (Hainburg an der Donau) and a population of S. albicans Kit. ex Schult. in the Czech Republic (Javoko). The two populations of S. sadleriana did not differ from each other in the uppermost leaf length, spike length, glume length, lemma length, awn length of lemma and palea length. On the other hand, they differed significantly in these morphological characters from the population of S. albicans. Karyological analysis demonstrated that both populations of S. sadleriana consisted of octoploid plants (2n=8x=56). In addition to chromosome counting, flow cytometry was employed to screen ploidy levels. The experiment demonstrated a positive correlation between the ploidy estimated by chromosome counting and DNA flow cytometry in S. sadleriana and S. albicans. Flow cytometry proved extremely useful for ploidy screening in large numbers of plants. The locality "Vratec" represents the northernmost locality of S. sadleriana known so far. 
4181425|The presented investigations have been carried out in order to estimate toxic sulphide levels and to examine detoxification capabilities in roots and rhizomes of the common reed (Phragmites australis). Underground organs of common reed are sensitive towards sulphide above 1 mM applied exogenously under hypoxia. However, certain tolerance may be achieved by sulphide detoxification. Accumulated sulphide is partially used for the synthesis of non-toxic thiols, mainly glutathione. But the detoxification capacity of the underground organs is limited. Maximum concentrations of thiols are about
4180953|The affinities and endemism of Kashmir Himalaya Ranunculaceae and Paeoniceae reveal some interesting distribution patterns in some taxa. Isoflor maps, revealing the affinities of Aconitum, Aquilegia, Delphinium and Ranunculus, are given. A high degree of endemism exists in the study area. About 41% of the total taxa show restricted distribution which is discussed. The floristic relationships of the wides show close links with Central Asia than any other phytogeographical unit. The significance of altitudinal amplitude of some taxa vis-a-vis their distribution pattern is discussed.
4179862| Die Autorinnen legen drei neuen Fachausdrcke fr die an Samen der Familie Fabaceae festgestellten Gebilde for. Macula cicatricularis - ein Makel um die Narbe (cicatricula), macula raphalis - ein Makel um die Sammennaht (raphe), und fissum hilare - eine linienfrmige Vertiefung inmitten des Nabels (hilum). 
4179823|Chromosome numbers are reported for the following Czechoslovak representatives of the genus Gagea Salisb.: G. bohemica (Zauschn.) J. A. et J. H. Schult. subsp. bohemica (2n = 60), G. lutea (L.) Ker-Gawl. (2n = 72), G. minima (L.) Ker-Gawl. (2n = 24), G. cf. paczoskii (Zapal.) Grossh. (2n = 48), G. cf. pomeranica Ruthe (2n = 48), G. pratensis (Pers.) Dum. s. str. (2n = 60), G. pusilla (F. W. Schmidt) J. A. et J. H. Schult. (2n = 24), G. spathacea (Hayne) Salisb. (2n = 106), and G. villosa (M. Bieb.) Duby (2n = 48). Meiotic behavior was found to be essentially regular in G. pusilla and G. villosa whereas a high proportion of meiotic irregularities was noted in G. bohemica and G. pratensis s. str.
4180972|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1987, 460 names have been listed. For each one of them, an appreciation about its validity is given relating to the Code of Nomenclature.
4179646| The gradients of floristic composition and environmental factors (temperature, soil moisture, pH, light intensity) were followed on three transects delimited in the contact zone between woodland and xerothermic grassland on the NW. slope of the Velk hora Hill in the Bohemian Karst. The densities of the more frequent plants and corresponding values of environmental factors are presented in graph form. Three different ecotopes, e.g. woodland, thermophilous grassland, contact between woodland and grassland, could be traced. The values of temperature, soil moisture, light intensity grouped according to the three ecotopes show significant differences in the respective mean. Furthemore, the association between species has been calculated and the chi-square matrix for the 11 most frequent species is given. On the basis of these calculations, a diagram of assumed relations between species was constructed. On the ground of data obtained, a significant regression of the density of thermophilous herbaceous plants on the temperature of the soil surface was found. The type of gradient on this experimental site is discussed and noticeable step-like, discontinuous character of both the floristic and environmental gradient is shown. 
4181274|Bulkiness, longevity and solidity of the body in woody plants enable the successive development of accessory shoots and adventitious roots in (1) both proximal and distal positions on organs, (2) both the above-ground and below-ground space, (3) both the aerial and soil environments. In monocotyledons, woody rhizomes play an essential role in the basic growth habit and architectural models. In dicotyledonous and a few gymnospermous trees, attached and successively disconnected ramets play a multilateral role in the pertinent life strategies. The majority of sprouts, coppice shoots and root suckers behave as opportunistic organs (a) serving as means of vegetative reproduction, (b) securing colonization of unoccupied ground, (c) increasing competitive power of the species within the community, (d) increasing survival rate of the stressed/disturbed genet in marginal habitats, (e) forming replacement for ageing or damaged organs, and (f) enabling reiteration of the genet's entire architectural model.
4181117| Broad-leaved forest communities of the territory of Tharandt near Dresden, Bundesrepublik Deutschland, are described on the basis of vegetation relevs and classed into eight associations. A comparison of the communities with similar ones described from other territories of Central Europe is made. /// Eingangs unserer Arbeit ber die Laubwlder von Tharandt und Umgebung wird zuerst eine bersicht ber das Gelnde, seinen geologischen Aufbau und die im Gebiet vorkommenden Laubwald-Gesellschaften gegeben. Es folgt eine Beschreibung des im Gebiet nur sprlich vorkommenden Carici remotae-Fraxinetum aus dem Alno-Ulmion Verband auf vom Wasser berrieselten Untergrund. Ferner kommt das Aceri pseudoplatani-Fraxinetum vor mit z.T. reichlich Lunaria rediviva aus dem Tilio-Acerion Verband, von dem 16 Aufnahmen erhoben wurden. Das Stellario holosteae-Carpinetum (oder Melampyro-Carpinetum) ist im Gebiet mit 36 Aufnahmen weit verbreitet und gliedert sich in vier Ausbildungen nmlich von Filipendula ulmaria, Stachys sylvatica mit drei Varianten, eine typische Ausbildung mit zwei Varianten und schliesslich eine von Luzula luzuloides. Dann werden die Buchenwlder beschrieben; nmlich das Festuco altissimae-Fagetum mit 26 Aufnahmen und das im Gebiet nur sprlich vorkommende Melico uniflorae-Fagetum aus dem Eu-Fagenion Unterverband. Aus dem Verband Luzulo-Fagion (bzw. aus dem Unterverband Luzulo-Fagenion) wird das im Gebiet mit 26 Aufnahmen unter den Laubwldern weit verbreitete Luzulo luzuloidis-Fagetum mit drei Varianten behandelt; die Gesellschaft hat auch flchenmssig einen grossen Anteil. Am Schluss folgen die Eichenwlder, die alle relativ trocken sind und sich auf steile Hanglagen in S- bis W-Exposition beschrnken. Vorwiegend handelt es sich um das Luzulo luzuloidis-Quercetum, sehr selten um das Cynancho vincetoxici-Quercetum, eine Gesellschaft, die zu den Flaumeichen-Wldern neigt. Abschliessend werden pH-Werte von steilen und nach S und N gerichteten Hanglagen mitgeteilt. 
4179588| In diesem Beitrag ist eine kurze bersicht der Waldgesellschaften des Sdteils der Kleinen Karpaten enthalten. Die ziemlich verschiedenen Standortsverhltnisse in diesem verhltnismssig kleinen Gebiete bedingen das Entstehen einer Reihe von Laubwaldgesellschaften mit sehr abweichenden Standortsansprchen, wie Carici pilosae-Carpinetum, sekundrer Primula-Eichen-Hainbuchenwald, Festuco heterophyllae-Quercetum, Stellario-Alnetum, Carici remotae-Fraxinetum, Dentario-Fagetum, Cephalanthero-Fagetum, Phyllitidi-Aceretum, Luzulo-Fagetum, Cotino-Quercetum pubescentis, Ceraso (mahaleb)-Quercetum und Luzulo-Quercetum. Den einzelnen Gesellschaften sind ihre phytoznotische Charakteristik und ein Schriftenvergleich beigefgt. /// This paper gives a survey of forest communities in the southern part of the Little Carpathians (Western Slovakia). In this relativelly small territory the ecological conditions (climatic conditions and geological substrata) are very variable. This explains the development of a series of forest communities with widely different ecological demands from xerophilous oak forests to montane beech forests. The following associations and lower units were distinguished and phytocenologically characterised: Class: Querco-Fagetea Br.-Bl. et Vlieger in Vlieger 1937 Order: Fagetalia Paw. 1928 Alliance: Carpinion betuli (Mayer 1937) Oberd. 1953 Associations: Carici pilosae-Carpinetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1964 (dryopteridetosum, typicum, luzuletosum) Secondary Primula-oak-hornbeam forest Festuco heterophyllae-Quercetum R. et Z. Neuh. 1964 (luzuletosum) Alliance: Alno-Padion Knapp 1942 emend. Medwecka apud Matuszkiewicz et Borowik 1957 Suballiance: Alnion glutinoso-incanae (Br.-Bl. 1915) Oberd. 1953 Associations: Stellario-Alnetum (Mikyka 1944) Lohmeyer 1957 (chrysosplenietosum, allietosum ursini) Carici remotae-Fraxinetum Koch 1926 Alliance: Fagion silvaticae Tx. et Diem. 1936 Suballiance: Eu-Fagion Oberd. 1957 emend. Tx. 1960 Association: Dentario bulbiferae-Fagetum (Zlatnk 1935) Hartmann 1953 (caricetosum pilosae, mercurialetosum) Suballiance: Cephalanthero-Fagion Tx. 1955 Association: Cephalanthero-Fagetum Oberd. 1957 (circaeetosum, typicum, caricetosum albae) Suballiance: Acerion pseudoplatani Oberd. 1957 Association: Phyllitidi-Aceretum Moor 1952 Alliance: Luzulo-Fagion Lohm. et Tx. in Tx. 1954 Association: Luzulo albidae-Fagetum Markgraf 1932 emend. Meusel 1937 (luzuletosum, deschampsietosum) Order: Quercetalia pubescentis Br.-Bl. 1931 Alliance: Quercion pubescenti-petraeae Br.-Bl. 1931 Suballiance: Eu-Quercion pubescentis Klika 1957 Associations: Cotino-Quercetum pubescentis Jakucs et Fekete 1958 (seslerietosum variae) Ceraso (mahaleb)-Quercetum pubescentis Jakucs et Fekete 1957 Class: Quercetea robori-petraeae Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943 Order: Quercetalia robori-petraeae Tx. (1931) 1937 Alliance: Genisto germanicae-Quercion R. et Z. Neuh. 1967 Association: Luzulo albidae-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Passarge 1953 emend. R. et Z. Neuh. 1967a (typicum, genistetosum tinctoriae). The units investigated are documented with vegetation plots and tables (phytocenological tabular arrangement according to Braun-Blanquet). 
4181516| Suggestions are made to define vegetation units by using formal logic. The characteristics that are used for the definition are logically combined using the AND, OR and NOT operators in such a way that relevs can be unequivocally allocated to vegetation units. Among all the characteristics of vegetation species groups are best suited to present allocation schemes for the Braun-Blanquet-system. It is shown that definition gaps within the system can be completely avoided by providing formal allocation rules. 
4181344|Year-to-year variability of species composition and hay yield were investigated during a six-year period (1988-1993) in a traditionally mown meadow of great species richness at Negrentino in southern Switzerland. Climatic parameters (temperature, duration of sunshine, global radiation, precipitation, evaporation, relative moisture) measured at a nearby weather station were calculated for ten-day units and compared to quantitative vegetation data. Yields of the first and second harvest were positively correlated with the mean relative moisture during the first and second growth period. Distinct variation patterns were recognized among the 48 species and interpreted as direct or indirect responses of interacting species to climatic conditions during three periods of the year. The first variation pattern including abundant graminoids reflects a strong direct effect by weather conditions in the first growth period. Species of the other variation patterns responded differently to extreme summer droughts with apparent time-lags. Some species reflect warm and humid conditions in early spring followed by dry conditions in a particular year; others combine features of different variation patterns.
4179890|The paper deals with three plant communities of forest clearings and forest paths in the neighbourhood of Aas, not studied hitherto in Norway, i.e. Carici leporinae-Agrostietum tenuis, Chamaenerion angustifolium-Calamagrostis purpurea comm. and Rubo-Pteridietum aquilini.
4180058| In der vorliegenden Arbeit wird eine neue Pflanzenassoziation Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albi Slavk 1978 beschrieben. Diese Assoziation ist an Kiesanschwemmungen in der niederen Lagen der warmen Region am Fuss der Karpaten gebunden und kann auch anderswo in Mittel-europa vorausgesetzt werden. Sie stellt eine Parallele zum verwandten Melilotetum albo-officinalis Sissingh 1950. /// A plant community of the alliance Dauco-Melilotion occurring on gravel alluvia in the warm foothills of the Carpathians (up to 300 m, mean temperature in July often above 18 C), mainly in the valley of the river Vh in W. Slovakia, is here described on the basis of dominant species such as Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albi. By its species composition it constitutes a parallel to the related association Melilotetum albo-officinalis. In the aboriginal countryside, gravel alluvia of streams apparently provided suitable habitats for the formation of species groupings from which the above associations developed. As a result of man's intensive influence, the Melilotetum albo-officinalis was also formed in secondary habitats. The characteristic species combination of the association described includes Agrostis stolonifera, Arenaria serpyllifolia, Artemisia vulgaris, Conyza canadensis, Daucus carota, Echium vulgare, Epilobium dodonaei, Erysimum hieraciifolium, Galeopsis angustifolia, Medicago lupulina, Melilotus albus, Melilotus officinalis, Oenothera sp. div., Poa compressa, Saponaria officinalis and Silene vulgaris. The table contains 12 phytosociological relevs (nomenclatural type: relev no. 6) from gravel alluvia of the river Vh between the villages Nimnica (268 m a. s. l.) and Ratnovce (152 m a. s. l.) and an analysis of the synmorphology, synecology, syngenesis and synchorology of the community is given in the text. Syngenetically, the association is related to the communities of the alliances Epilobion fleischeri and Salicion eleagni. While these communities are characteristic of gravel alluvia of mountain streams at higher elevations and include at least some oreophytes, Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albi is distinguished by the absence of oreophytes and presence of a number of subthermophytes and subxerothermophytes. An important factor of coenogenesis is the dynamics of the stream with erosion-accumulation processes and fluctuation of water level. Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albi is an open plant community with an average 40% cover. Hemicryptophytes predominate, followed by therophytes. The internal floristic homogeneity is 51,1%. It is currently enriched by other species, often of adventive character. The association Epilobio dodonaei-Melilotetum albi, ascertained in the West Carpathians, may be expected to occur elsewhere at lower elevations in Europe, where the indicating species, Epilobium dodonaei, is found. 
4179799|At the present time, three main migration routes of adventitious plants can be distinguished and defined in Czechoslovakia: (1) the Eastern Route, (2) the Elbe (Labe) Route, and (3) the Pannonian Route. Plant species approximately referring to individual routes are listed, too.
4179467|The problems of obtaining satisfactory estimates of the growth rate by harvesting tops and roots of a natural plant community-the heath vegetation in southern Australia-are outlined. It is essential to develop non-destructive methods for studying rates of production such as recommended by the Section entitled "Production Processes of Terrestrial Communities" of the International Biological Programme.
4181351|The dominance of Polygonum bistorta in abandoned mountain meadows was studied. Successional and seasonal changes in biomass, nitrogen concentration and content were studied at the community level. During the succession, P. bistorta increases its biomass both in absolute and mainly in relative values compared to the surrounding species. Nitrogen stored in its rhizomes seems to be quickly translocated into above-ground parts at the beginning of the growing season. High amounts of nitrogen allow rapid growth of both vegetative and generative plant parts. The success of P. bistorta is probably the result of efficient use of stored nitrogen, suppression of surrounding vegetation by above-ground cover of leaves and by decrease in the level of soil nitrogen, and the effect of a large amount of litter. Management consisting in the combination of mowing and fertilization is proposed.
4181542|This paper summarises present knowledge of the natural saum vegetation (Trifolio-Geranietea: Trifolion medii, Geranienion and Dictamno-Ferulagenion) in Slovenia. The alliance of Geranion sanguinei was subdivided into the Geranienion (primarily of Central European distribution) and Submediterranean Dictamno-Ferulagenion. Several new syntaxa (Scorzonero villosae-Trifolietum alpestris, Cirsio-Clematidetum rectae and Origano-Cnidietum silaifolii) were described within the Dictamno-Ferulagenion.
4181221|Generative and vegetative reproduction of diploid and triploid Butomus umbellatus L., and growth and biomass production of both cytotypes under two different nutrient levels were compared. Seedling survival was studied under controlled conditions in a growth chamber; the response of plants to different nutrient conditions was studied in experimental garden. Both cytotypes do not differ in seed germination and seedling survival. Triploids produce more aboveground and underground biomass, more numerous lateral rhizome buds, and have significantly higher flowering stalks. Low generative reproduction (limited seed production) in triploids is compensated for by more intensive vegetative reproduction. High nutrient level appeared to be stressful for plants of both cytotypes: it limits plant growth and causes plant mortality. Triploids are more viable than diploids in this case, which may be important for their survival under conditions of high trophic level.
4180835| Viatic migration is an important part of linear migration of plants in the cultural landscape. Some species migrate along the roadsides (1) among particular altitudinal belts, (2) among regions with variously disturbed natural vegetation, and (3) among regions of different geology and soil cover. The roadsides are populated by anthropogeneous plant communities of specific species composition. /// Die viatische Migration stellt einen wichtigen Bestandteil der sog. Linienmigration der Pflanzen dar. Sie kommt zum Ausdruck (1) durch Ausbreitung von einigen Pflanzen auf den strassenbegleitenden Standorten zwischen einzelnen Hhenstufen eines vertikal gegliederten Gebietes, wobei die Ausbreitung von relativ wrmeliebenden Arten der Niederungen und der Hgellnder in die hheren Lagen berwiegt; (2) durch Ausbreitung von Pflanzen zwischen Gebieten mit verschiedenartig vernderter natrlicher Vegetation (z. B. Eindringen einiger Wiesen- und Unkrautarten in eine Waldlandschaft); (3) durch Ausbreitung von Pflanzen zwischen Gebieten mit unterschiedlichem geologischen Bau und abweichenden Bodeneigenschaften, wobei es sich fast immer um eine Einwanderung von Arten der relativ eutrophen Standorte in Gebiete mit armen (oligotrophen) Bden handelt. Auf verschiedenen Strassenrandstandorten (Randstreifen, Grben, Bschungen) entstehen  eigenartige Artenverbindungen in den anthropogenen Gemeinschaften, die man oft als selbststndige Einheiten typisieren kann. Es werden einige Beispiele des unterschiedlichen Artengefges der natrlichen und anthropogenen Saumgesellschaften gegeben. Die Strassen gehren zu den wichtigen Wanderwegen von mehreren Adventivpflanzen. Man kann deshalb feststellen, dass sie eine bedeutende Rolle in der forschreitenden Synanthropisierung der Flora und Vegetation unserer Kulturlandschaft spielen. 
4179850| The paper deals with the estimation of maximum above-ground herb-layer biomass in selected forest communities of the Mal Karpaty Mts., (Lesser Carpathians) SW. Slovakia. Use was made of a combined method of indirect sampling and phytocenological relevs, and the following values were ascertained: 41 kg/ha in the Luzulo-Fagetum (276 kg/ha if mosses included), 691 kg/ha in the Carici pilosae- Carpinetum, 364 kg/ha in the Dentario-Fagetum, 476 kg/ha in the Aceri-Carpinetum, and 1364 kg/ha in the Stellario-Alnetum. The results are discussed and compared with earlier data published in the literature. /// Die Autoren befassen sich in dieser Arbeit mit der Schtzung der maximalen oberirdischen Biomasse der Krautschicht in der Vegetationsperiode. Dazu waren Waldgesellschaften der Kleinen Karpaten ausgewhlt. Zur Schtzung der Biomasse wurde die verbesserte Methode der indirekten Entnahme und Vegetationsaufnahme angewandt. In den untersuchten Gesellschaften wurden folgende Werte der Krautschicht-Biomasse festgestellt: Luzulo-Fagetum 41 kg/ha, zusammen mit den Moosen 276 kg/ha, Carici pilosae-Carpinetum 691 kg/ha, Dentario-Fagetum 364 kg/ha, Aceri-Carpinetum 476 kg/ha und Stellario-Alnetum 1364 kg ha. Die erzielten Ergebnisse werden diskutiert und verglichen. 
4180485|A new genus Bactrodesmiastrum Hol.-Jech. is established for a fungus of dematiaceous hyphomycetes collected on decaying wood of Fagus sylvatica in Czechoslovakia. The only species, B. obscurum Hol.-Jech. is described and illustrated.
4180219|Morphological and physiological quality of the pollen was studied in four Rosa species growing in habitats with different calcium carbonate content. In soils rich in calcium the pollen showes in all cases better physiological quality which is an assumption for good fertility. It may be also one of the reasons for species diversity and population abundance of roses in native habitats on calcareous soils.
4179629| The study of the annual productivity of some reedswamp species grown in hydroponic sand cultures is described. The plants were cultivated in the open in a mixture of diatomite earth and sand, and irrigated periodically with a nutrient solution. The cultivation tanks were arranged in tiers to enable a continuous passage of the nutrient solution through the rooting medium. The plants were grown from small rhizome cuttings or seedlings one year old. Harvests at intervals of 1 to 3 years made it possible to follow and assess in quantitative terms the dry matter production of both aerial (shoots) and underground organs ("Root/Shoot" Ratio) and the annual dry weight increase of the underground biomass of these perennial species. The research included macro- and microclimatological measurements of temperature (air, substrate), humidity and incident (global) solar radiation. The annual productivity and the efficiency of incident solar energy utilization in the yields of cultivated reedswamp species are compared with corresponding values of the same species in natural stands. The values of production (standing crop), net annual productivity C, and the coefficient of solar energy conversion  were very high, surpassing in several cases those of natural habitats. The significance of these findings is discussed. 
4180264|Micromeles Decaisne emend. Koehne (Rosaceae, Maloideae) is shown to be generically distinct from Sorbus L. emend. Crantz. Problems in the taxonomy of the genus are reviewed. The genus appears to be most closely related to Raphiolepis Lindl. but is readily distinguished by a constant set of characters. Both genera may be derived from Sorbus L. emend. Crantz subg. Aria Pers. Analysis of morphological characters is provided. A survey for flavonoids revealed the presence of vitexin and/or luteolin 7-O-glucoside in some members of the genus in a pattern similar to that found in certain Asian species of Sorbus. There are also brief taxonomic notes on some of the species which were examined.
4181439|Plant community structure was investigated in a species-poor grassland on slightly alkaline soil, subjected to eight combinations of seasonal grazing management. The "Linear patch model" of Bycroft et al. (1993) and the "Site model" of Wilson et al. (1987) were used to examine variance in local species richness, since a variance deficit (in comparison with a null model) is a possible indication of niche limitation. Even though treatment had affected species composition, the degree of variance deficit was essentially constant between grazing treatments. Grass species richness was also unaffected by grazing regime. Species association was examined by a new method, that discounts the tendency to negative association that will be caused by any constraint on local species richness. There were differences in association between paddocks, related to both treatments and blocks, but these were individualistic to the sample, apparently because of species spatial patchiness. Differences between replicate paddocks were generally as great as those between treatments. However, the effect of Spring grazing on the association between Hordeum secalinum and Agrostis stolonifera was opposite between the two Winter grazing levels. Pattern of the more common species was investigated, again via a new test, one based on runs. The pattern of Agrostis stolonifera was constant, irrespective of grazing treatment, even though its abundance had changed. However, Lolium perenne was affected by grazing - under winter grazing its occurrences were less clumped - even though grazing had no effect on its mean abundance. There was therefore some indication of small effects of winter grazing on community structure, i.e. regularities in the patterns of species co-occurrences that might be caused by limitations to species coexistence. Apart from this, community structure was quickly restored after the imposition of different grazing regimes, to that typical of stable communities. Applying the Gitay-Wilson "Three-phase model" of succession, the "Pioneer" phase in this grassland lasted less than five years. It is concluded that the grassland is currently in the second, "Building", phase.
4179517| In Reykjanes peninsula, mainly in the valley of Krsuvk, in all 6 mire associations were found, belonging to the alliances Eriophorion Scheuchzeri and Caricion canescentis-fuscae. Floristic, ecological and physiognomical differeces between the two alliances are discussed. Most of the associations seem to be restricted in their distribution to Iceland. 
4179791|A revision of herbarium material of Rorippa, revealed the presence of the diploid Rorippa islandica (Oeder ex Murr.) Borb. (2n = 16) in several localities in Jugoslavia (Bosnia-Hercegovina and Montenegro), and probably also in Italy (Etruria). All localities occur in altitudes above 1400 m a.s.l. and constitute an extension of the distribution area of this species to Appenine and Balkan Peninsula.
4180156|Foliar appendages of eight species of Salvia L. have been studied. Eleven types of non glandular and five types of glandular appendages have been observed. They have been classified under three major categories: (1) glandular capitate; (2) non glandular filiform and (3) non glandular capitate. Five new types of trichomes have been reported from Lamiaceae for the first time. On the basis of trichome types different species of Salvia can be identified. A tentative key has been presented.
4180465|Four earlier proposed and invalidly published generic names of Lycopodiaceae are validated: Lateristachys (type: Lycopodium laterale R. Br.), Lycopodiastrum (type: Lycopodium casuarinoides Spring), Pseudodiphasium (type: Lycopodium volubile G. Forster) and Pseudolycopodium (type: Pseudolycopodium densum (Rothm.) Holub). A new genus Pseudolycopodiella (type: Lycopodium carolinianum L.) is described. New nomenclatural combinations are proposed for 17 species of these genera and of Lycopodiella.
4181418| Characteristics of the growth and performance of Phragmites australis as well as sediment characteristics were investigated along the western shore of Romberk fishpond. The reed performance decreased toward the southern end of the shore, proximate to outlets of wastewater effluent and untreated sewage. While the reed stand was closed and looked healthy at the northern end, gaps occurred within the flooded part of the reed belt further southwards; reed was absent in water along the southernmost part of the shore, though dead shoot stubble indicated its presence in earlier times. In the latter site, the surface layer of sediment consisted of fine mud with a high organic matter content and a high oxygen demand. To a smaller extent, patches of partly decomposed reed litter inside the gaps showed the same properties. It is suggested that organic matter accumulating within the flooded part of the reed belt may have reduced plant performance which ultimately lead to the formation of gaps. At a later stage, the lakeside fringe of the reed belt collapsed, thus completing the retreat of reed from water. A protective effect of calcium against the adverse effects of organic matter is suggested. 
4180401| A new subspecies, Lathyrus nissolia L. subsp. futakii Chrtkov subsp. nova is described from East Slovakia. The diacritical characters are: high and rich branched stems, 50-110 cm long and larger, 10-12 mm long, bright orange-red flowers. It differs also in ecology, growing in wet lowland forests with the level of the ground water up to 15 cm over the earth also in summer. 
4180340| During the pollen analyses of Bohemian peat and limnic sediments numerous empty cell walls of some chlorococcal algae, particulary of the genus Pediastrum, were found. This material was taxonomically determined and the ecology of different taxa was reconstructed and compared with the present one. The greatest difference was found in Pediastrum integrum and P. kawraiskyi occurring commonly in Central Europe in the lakes during the Late-Glacial and Postglacial Periods but very rarely at present. Our results were compared with some data given in the literature. /// Eine grssere Anzahl von Znobien und auch einzelner Zellen der Grnalgen, die bei den palobotanischen Forschungen in den Ablagerungen der bhmischen Torflager blich gefunden werden, hat Anlass zu deren eingehenderem Studium gegeben. In den fr die Pollenanalyse aufbereiteten Prparaten wurden die einzelnen Algen determiniert und hnlich wie die Pollenkrner gezhlt. Der erzielten Angaben bediente man sich dann in den palogeobotanischen Arbeiten vor allem fr die Rekonstruktion der Entwicklung der Lager und ihrer Pflanzendecke. Qualitativ bunt und an Algen quantitativ reich waren vor allem die Seeablagerungen, die es dann ermglichten, eine eingehende Vorstellung ber das Vorkommen der einzelten Arten in den vergangenen Perioden zu gewinnen. Vorlufig konnten nur Arten mit resistenter Sporopolenin-Zellenwand, die sich im Laufe der Jahrtausende nicht zersetzten und die auch die chemische Azetolyse-Behanlung der Proben vetragen haben, verfolgt werden. Angaben und zahlreiche Diskussionen ber das Vorkommen von Algen in den lteren geologischen Formationen kommen besonders in der geologischen Literatur fters vor. In unserem Beitrag befassen wir uns vor allem mit der Auswertung der konkreten Funde aus den Sptglazial- und Holozn ablagerungen der bhmischen Lokalitten. Bei allen festgestellten Arten und Varietten wurde ihr einstmaliges Vorkommen mit dem heutigen verglichen. Es wurden ihre Umweltsansprche verfolgt und nachgeforscht, wie ihre kologischen Ansprche fr die Rekonstruktion der rtlichen Verhltnisse der einzelnen Lager fr die lteren Perioden gentzt werden knnten. Es wurde festgestellt, dass sich einige Algenarten den gegenwrtigen anthropisch genderten Verhltnissen des Wassermilieus voll angepasst haben. Auch in den knstlich stark eutrophisierten Wasserbecken berwiegen heute Pediastrum boryanum, P. duplex und Tetraedron minimum, deren reichliches Vorkommen auch in den vergangenen Holoznzeitabschnitten, wo es whrend der warmen Phasen zur natrlichen Eutrophisierung der Gewsser kam, nachgewiesen wurde. Hierbei ist P. boryanum als der lteste Vertreter der Gattung Pediastrum mit breiter kologischer Valenz anzusehen. Im subfossilen Material wurden jedoch im grsseren Umfang auch Arten gefunden, die man heute auf dem Gebiete der Tschechoslowakei berhaupt nicht vermerkt hat oder die nur selten vorkommen. Ein typisches Beispiel dafr ist die Art P. kawraiskyi, die ab Sptglazial bis zum Mittelholozn in dem khlen und reinen Wasser der verwachsenden Seen hufig war; in der Tschechoslowakei kommt sie heute nicht vor. hnlich kann man auch P. integrum bewerten. In den vergangenen Zeitabschnitten drfte auch die in strker eutrophen Gewssern wachsende Art P. simplex hufiger gewesen sein. Vom taxonomischen Standpunkt aus wurden bei den gefunden Algen keine morphologischen Abweichungen im Vergleich zu den heute vorkommenden Arten festgestellt. Die bisherigen Ergebnisse haben nachgewiesen, dass ein gut bestimmtes Algenmaterial bei der palogeobotanischen Rekonstruktion der rtlichen Verhltnisse einzelner Lager bedeutend helfen kann. Gleichzeitig bietet es auch interessante Ergebnisse den Algologen, denen es bei dem Studium der Geschichte und der einzelnen Algenarten dienen kann. 
4180893| Sagittaria lancifolia L. a perennial helophyte growing in shallow waters has asexual reproduction by rhizomes and sexual reproduction by achenes. We studied the morphological characteristics of achenes related to its dispersion, some factors affecting its germination and the development stages and growth of seedlings. This species produces many achenes, and disperses through epizoochory and hydrochory. Achenes germinate on light only. 100% germination was obtained at 25 C. Under conditions of inundation the germination period decreases, and the percentage of germination increases when compared to achenes with or without imbibition. Achenes in anaerobic conditions have reduced germination. The growth of seedlings of S. lancifolia was affected by the temperature: each organ of the seedlings grows differently in dependence upon this factor. For example, roots grow faster during the early stages of the seedlings. 
4180072|Six different leaf indexes, indicating the anatomical and ecophysiological features in leaves, were used for characterizing the three principal layers (tree, shrub and herb) of an oak-hornbeam forest in southwest Slovakia, Czechoslovakia. The most pronounced differences in the leaf indexes followed were found between those at the active surface of the forest canopy (sun leaves of tall trees) and those in the herb layer. Differences exist between individual layers as well as between species within each layer. They should be taken into consideration in ecological and ecophysiological studies and in modelling forest ecosystems.
4179744|A study is presented of germination in Potamogeton angustifolius, P. acutifolius, P. obtusifolius, P. crispus, P. lucens, P. natans, P. pectinatus, P. pusillus and P. trichoides, and the possibility of overcoming dormancy in these species under laboratory conditions. Three of the species, viz. Potamogeton pectinatus, P. pusillus and P. trichoides have been examined in greater detail. Impermeability of the fruit coat appears to be the main reason for the dormancy of these species. The lowest percentage of the impermeable achenes has been recorded in Potamogeton crispus.
4180114| In NW-Bhmen kommen fast alle bisher bekannten Filipendula ulmaria-Gesellschaften vor, u. zw. Filipendulo-Epilobietum hirsuti Sougnez 1957, Filipendulo-Geranietum palustris W. Koch 1926, Lysimachio vulgaris-Filipenduletum Bal.-tul. 1978, Valeriano officinalis-Filipenduletum Siss. in Westhoff et al. 1946, Chaerophyllo hirsuti-Filipenduletum Niemann, Heinrich et Hilbig 1973 und Cirsio heterophylli-Filipenduletum Neuhusl et Neuhuslov-Novotn 1975. Die Pflanzenzusammensetzung dieser Assoziationen steht mit den bestimmten Eigenschaften des Standortes in engem Zusammenhang - es treten hier vornehmlich die Hhenlage, geologische und klimatische Verhltnisse, primre Waldgesellschaften, trophischer Zustand sowie phyto-geographische Verhltnisse in den Vordergrund. /// The study is concerned with synecological and phytosociological characteristics of Filipendulenion communities in NW. Bohemia. (For a survey of associations under study, see p. 229.) Important information has been obtained from the evaluation of maps showing the relation between forest and geological mapping units and climatic data on the one hand, and the presence of Filipendula ulmaria communities on the other, and from the evaluation of soil and ground water analyses. The distribution centre of most Filipendula ulmaria communities in NW. Bohemia lies in Eu- and Subhercynicum. Two groups can be distinguished there. The first, with optimum occurrence in lower altitudes (in cca 390 to 465
4181046| In the Brdy Mts. and their surroundings twenty moist meadow associations were ascertained, viz. Chaerophyllo hirsuti-Calthetum, Scirpetum sylvatici, Scirpo-Juncetum filiformis, Angelico-Cirsietum palustris, Polygono-Cirsietum palustris, Polygono-Cirsietum heterophylli, Deschampsio-Cirsietum heterophylli, Polygono-Trollietum altissimi, Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei, Scirpo-Cirsietum cani, Filipendulo-Geranietum palustris, Lysimachio vulgaris-Filipenduletum, Chaerophyllo hirsuti-Filipenduletum, Valeriano (procurrentis)-Filipenduletum, Trollio altissimi-Filipenduletum, Iridetum sibiricae, Alopecuretum pratensis, Sanguisorbo officinalis-Polygonetum bistortae, Sanguisorbo-Festucetum commutatae and Scorzonero-Molinietum caeruleae. In most of these communities also the quality of the site was studied. The great diversity of the meadows under study was found to depend, above all, on the water regime and the chemical properties of the soil. Another cause, however, is the geographical position of the area and altitude of the Brdy Mt. /// Im Brdy-Bergland wurden innerhalb der Feuchtwiesen insgesamt zwanzig definierbare Assoziationen und eine Gesellschaft unterschieden - betrifft die Verbnde Calthion s. l., Alopecurion und Molinion. Hinsichtlich der Subassoziationen gibt es im Gebiet mehr als 30 verschiedene Ausbildungen (siehe bersicht auf S. 5-6). Diese grosse Variabilitt der Molinietalia-Feuchtwiesen ist den Meereshhen und der geographischen Lage des Untersuchungsgebietes zuzuschreiben. In der submontanen Stufe gibt es phytogeographische Bindungen des Brdy-Berglandes einerseits an die in NW-Bhmen liegenden hercynischen Grenzgebirge, anderseits an das den Alpen benachbarte umava (Bhmerwald). Deswegen wachsen hier auf einem relativ kleinen Raum nebeneinander: weit verbreitete Feuchtwiesengesellschaften, Gesellschaften, deren Hauptverbreitung im Hercynicum liegt, Gesellschaften, die bisher aus dem alpenkarpatischen Bogen (einschliesslich Randgebiete) bekannt sind und eine Gesellschaft mit pannonischer Verbreitungstendenz (Seite XX). Dagegen fehlen hier die ausgesprochen atlantisch getnten Gesellschaften (betrifft vor allem das Crepido-Juncetum acutiformis Oberdorfer 1957 und Junco filiformis-Polygonetum Bal.-Tul. 1981). Was die kologie betrifft, zeigen die Bodeneigenschaften der meisten untersuchten Gesellschaften im allgemeinen analoge Parameter wie in anderen frher untersuchten Gebieten (NW-Bhmen, umava, Jizersk hory). Eine Ausnahme bilden jene Gesellschaften, die in unserem Gebiet in anderen Subassoziationen entwickelt werden, z. B. das Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei. An die nhrstoffreichsten Bden ist das untersuchte Chaerophyllo-Filipenduletum gebunden, dann folgen Polygono-Cirsietum palustris caricetosum davallianae, Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei und die Trollius altissimus-Assoziationen (betrifft vornehmlich den Ca
4179501| Bei der Klassifizierung des Thlaspi alpestre subsp. alpestre (Syn.: T. brachypetalum Jord. 1846) und des T. a. subsp. sylvestre (Jord.) Hook. fil. in der Rangstufe der selbstndigen Arten muss die erste Pflanze Thlaspi alpestre (L.) L. 1763, die andere T. caerulescens J. et C. Presl 1819 heissen; dieser Name besitzt die Prioritt vor T. sylvestre Jord. 1846. Die von der Autorin im Rahmen der letztgenannten Art unterschiedenen Unterarten (ausser der Nominatunterart) fhren die Namen: T. c. subsp. calaminare (Lej.) Dvokov comb. nova und T. c. subsp. tatrense (Zapa.) Dvokov comb. nova. 
4179757| Im Rahmen der systematischen Erforschung der Fagetalia-Gesellschaften der Tschechoslowakei bearbeitete die Verfasserin die Schlucht- und Hangwlder in den Durchbruchstlern und Querschluchten im mittleren und westlichen Teil des Gebirges Hrub Jesenk (Hohes Gesenke) und im anliegenden Teil des Gebirges Rychlebsk hory (Reichensteiner Gebirge). Es wurden hier folgende Syntaxa beschrieben: Arunco-Aceretum crepidetosum paludosae, A.-A. abietetosum und Aceri-Fagetum, Polystichum lobatum Ausbildung. Diese Waldgesellschaften wurden von phytoznologischen und kologischen Gesichtspunkt aus analysiert. /// In the valleys of the mountain rivers Divok Desn, Merta, Brann and Bl as well as in their tributary ravines in the Hrub Jesenk mountains (Moravia) the permanent forest communities Arunco-Aceretum and Aceri-Fagetum were investigated. In each community the cenological characteristics, distribution, synecology, brief evaluation from the viewpoint of forestry and literary comparison were considered. The Arunco-Aceretum in this territory has not yet been submitted to investigation. It occurs here in two subassociations viz. Arunco-Aceretum abietetosum und Arunco-Aceretum crepidetosum paludosae. A.-A. abietetosum is distributed at an altitude of about 550-600 m, the A.-A. crepidetosum at an altitude about 600-700 m above sea level. Both subassociations colonize lower parts of the steep rocky slopes above the mountain rivers. The soil types of these subassociations is ranker-braunerde or stony braunerde with partially shifted soil surface. A.-A. abietetosum is floristically differentiated by the higher frequency of some species of the oak-hornbeam forests. The Aceri-Fagetum represents a permanent forest community distributed in the zone of the mountain beech forests or in the transitional zone between the mountain beech forests and climax spruce forests at an altitude of 650-1 200 m. Its occurence in the investigated territory is determined by the specific mesoclimatic and soil conditions. This association in the Hrub Jesenk mountains has already been investigated by Hartmann et Jahn (1967). The Aceri-Fagetum, form with Polystichum lobatum as newly described in this paper, is bound to the steep slopes of the small narrow shady ravines at altitudes of 700-900 m a. s. l. Compared with the typical subassociation with Petasites albus and Chaerophyllum hirsutum Hartmann et Jahn 1967 this community differs floristically by a high frequency of the ferns Polystichum lobatum, P. braunii, Phegopteris polypodioides, P. dryopteris as well as by several species of mountain herbrich beech forests, e.g. Circaea alpina and Veronica montana. From the standpoint of ecology it differs by higher water draining and aeration of the soil-profile which never contains the gley-horizon. 
4180338| Das syntaxonomische Einordnungsproblem der Ruderalgesellschaften mit den Dominanten Carduus acanthoides und Echinops sphaerocephalus lsten wir mit Hilfe der deduktiven Methode syntaxonomischer Klassifikation (cf. Kopeck et Hejn 1978). Die Basalgesellschaft Carduus acanthoides-[Onopordetalia] kommt auf Erdaufschttungen und dpltzen vor, wo sie an Therophytengesellschaften der Ordnung Sisymbrietalia anknpft. Die Basalgesellschaft Echinops sphaerocephalus-[Onopordetalia/Arrhenatheretalia] finden wir im Untersuchungsgebiet verstreut an Strassenwllen und Flussdmmen auf dem Alluvium des Vh-Flusses. Sie hat eine Grenzstellung, was der ausgeglichene Anteil von Arten der Klasse Artemisietea (incl. der Ordnung Onopordetalia) und der Klasse Molinio-Arrhenatheretea (incl. der Ordnung Arrhenatheretalia) in der floristischen Zusammensetzung dieser Gesellschaft bezeugen. /// Both plant communities described are composed of species of a broad ecological valency. It was not possible to determine their characteristic taxa in the study area, so the deductive method of syntaxonomical classification (in the sense of Kopeck et Hejn 1978) has been applied. Two communities were established, namely the basal community Carduus acanthoides-[Onopordetalia] and the basal community Echinops sphaerocephalus-[Onopordetalia/Arrhenatheretalia] as well. The former is largely distributed in the area under study. It can be found on heaps and bare abandoned sites. The latter occurs scatteredly in the region of the alluvium of the river Vh, mostly on dikes along roads and the river itself. A high portion of the species of the order Arrhenatheretalia in the floristic composition indicates its syntaxonomical position at the boundary between Onopordetalia and Arrhenatheretalia. 
4180969|The present paper describes six species of agarics occurring in Kashmir Valley - Lentinus lepideus, Lentinus strigosus, Pleurotus platypus, Clitocybe infudibulformis, Conchomyces bursaeformis and Leucopaxillus albissumus. Three species - L. lepideus, C. infundibuliformis and C. bursaeformis, are reported for the first time from India.
4180221|The authors observations on Sagittaria sagittifolia L. at 100 natural localities were compared with data in the literature. The habitat of the species is between 0 and 0.8 m of water depth; flowering and fruiting are optimal between 0.1 and 0.8 m.
4180772|The taxonomy of the "Cardamine pratensis complex" in the Asian territory of the USSR is dealt with. After critical analysis of the materials stored in various herbaria in Leningrad (LE, LEU) and Moscow (MHA, MW) three species, C. nymanii Gand., C. dentata Schult., and C. pratensis L. s. str. have been recognised pointing out their intraspecific variations and geographical distribution within the territory concerned.
4181027| Vegetation changes in seminatural plant communities in the Beliansk Tatry Mts. have been studied three decades after grazing or mowing. The changes are slow, they have reached the association level only after about 20 years. 
4179945| In the present paper morphological features of hybrids from crossing of four species of Rosa sect. Caninae (R. canina L., R. zalana Wiesb., R. rubiginosa L. and R. sherardii Davies) with R. rugosa Thumbg. (sect. Cinnamomeae) and their heredity are described. F
4179927| A new classification, using the Zrich-Montpellier procedures, is presented for the grassland, thicket and forest vegetation of the Accra Plains, Ghana. Newly described syntaxa comprise 1 class (Vetiverietea), 4 orders, 9 alliances, 16 associations and 16 subassociations. Altogether 350 species of vascular plants were recorded in 140 relevs. Correlations are made between syntaxa and climatic, edaphic and anthropogenic factors. The floristic distinctness of the area is assessed: 4 endemic species and about 40 widely disjunct species occur. Although the majority of species are of Guinean affinity, the plant communities of the Accra Plains are unique in the context of African tropical vegetation. 
4181389|The results of a taxonomic study of Cardamine flexuosa With., C. glauca Spreng. ex DC., C. graeca L., C. hirsuta L., C. impatiens L., C. parviflora L., C. resedifolia L., and C. trifolia L. from the Carpathians and Pannonia are presented. Full synonymy, lectotypifications, descriptions, chromosome numbers, taxonomic history, notes on variation, distribution data and ecological notes are provided.
4179610| Pyrola carpatica Holub et Ksa is described as a new species in the series Incarnatae Ksa and is compared with other representatives of the series and with Pyrola rotundifolia L., a species with which it is usually confused. A more detailed note is devoted to the nomenclatural analysis of "Pyrola intermedia", a name which has been used for the species by several authors. /// Das in den hochgelegenen Lagen der Karpaten vorkommende Taxon der Gattung Pyrola L. unterscheidet sich wie von P. norvegica Knaben, mit welcher Art dieses Taxon verwechselt wurde, so auch von P. rotundifolia L., bzw. von seiner sandliebenden Kstenrasse subsp. maritima (Kenyon) Warb., mit der es manchmal verbunden wurde. Auf Grund der morphologischen Unterschiede und der geographischen Isolation von den verwandten Taxa klassifizieren die Autoren die karpatischen Pyrola-Pflanzen als eine neue Art unter dem Namen Pyrola carpatica Holub et Ksa. Diese Art gehrt zur Typus-Untergattung und zur Typus-Sektion der Gattung Pyrola L., und in die Reihe ser. Incarnatae Ksa. P. carpatica stellt einen karpatischen Endemit vor, mit Entwicklungswurzeln im mittelsibirischen Raum. Ihr Vorkommen ist auf die Lagen oberhalb der Waldgrenze gebunden. Der Name "Pyrola intermedia Schleicher", der frher manchmal fr diese neue Art angewendet wurde, kann in der botanischen Nomenklatur nicht mehr bentzt werden, weil er einen "nomen nudum" vorstellt. Nach der Analyse der Problematik des Namens Pyrola intermedia gelangten die Autoren zar Ansicht, dass dieser Name zum erstenmal von einigen italienischen Autoren (hchstwahrscheinlich der erste war Arcangeli) fr die Art Pyrola media Sw. gltig verffentlicht wurde, in deren Synonymie er deshalb eingereiht werden muss. In der Rangstufe der Unterart ist das Epitheton "intermedia" in einer abweichenden taxonomischen Auffassung zugnglich als bei den italienischen Autoren; seine Anwendung hngt in diesem Fall von der Typisierung des Namens Thelaia intermedia Alef. 1856 vllig ab. 
4180801|On a newly created road bank in Eastern Bohemia, during the first 7 years vegetation developed at the highest rate in the lower zone of the slope, due to favourable moisture and the supply of nutrients. On the upper slope succession was slowed down by multiple disturbance, while plants in the ditch were stressed by excessive flooding.
4180672| The aquatic macrophyte vegetation of eastern and north-eastern Bohemia has been grouped into 40 communities. The description is given of the natural conditions (climate, orography, geology, pedology, hydrology, water and soil chemical analyses) and of the geographical distribution of these communities. The main emphasis is placed on the species composition of the communities, treated and classified according to the methods of the Zrich-Montpellier phytosociological school. Two new associations are described: Callitrichetum hermaphroditicae and Potametum zizii. The macrophyte communities still belong to the best preserved natural vegetation of the region investigated. 
4180153| Pyrus spinosa Forsk. (= P. amygdaliformis Vill.) kreuzt sich in betrchtlichem Masse mit P. pyraster Burgsd. und mit P. communis L. Es wurden drei Hybriden beschrieben, die zwar weniger, aber gut keimende Samen haben. Potentiell sind in der bulgarischen Population von P. spinosa Merkmale aller infraspezifischen Taxa vertreten, doch nur zwei von ihnen kommen in grsserem Masse vor, das Vorkommen der weiteren drei ist nur gering. Merkmale des brigen infraspezifischen Taxon kommen nur in Kombination mit Merkmalen anderer Taxa bei bergangsformen vor. Vorlufig ist auch die Verbreitung von P. spinosa und ihrer Hybriden in Bulgarien angegeben. /// Pyrus spinosa Forsk. (= P. amygdaliformis Vill.) hybridizes to a great extent with P. pyraster Burgsd. and with P. communis L. For example, in southwestern Bulgaria near the village Lozenica 13,6% hybrids of the total number of pear- trees were ascertained. The hybrids in most cases are more or less intermediary. In questionable cases the papillae on the epidermis of the lower leaf side can be used as a good diacritical character for verification of the hybrid origin, and the accessory cells surrounding the quard cells of stomata as well. The number of seeds in the fruits of hybrid plants is a little lower than in the fruits of P. spinosa. Also the differences between individual hybrid trees are more distinct than in trees of P. spinosa. The seeds of hybrid plants mostly germinate very well; however, hybrids with worse germinating seeds also occur. An analysis of descendants has proved a great extent of hybridization. The descendants of all plants of P. spinosa evaluated in detail were coincidentally hybrid, showing that the trees were pollinated with the pollen of P. pyraster or P. communis, or that these plants owing to repeated reciprocal pollination were very similar to P. spinosa. However, they were not homozygous, and an introgression difficult to distinguish was therefore the case here. In other cases, of course, descendants of P. spinosa were found, which did not split. The descendants of hybrids split in all cases, proving the correctness of determination of hybrid plants. Three hybrids have been described in German: P. pyraster Burgsd.  P. spinosa Forks., P. communis L.  P. spinosa Forsk. and P. communis L.  P. pyraster Burgsd.  P. spinosa Forsk. In the population of P. spinosa in southwestern Bulgaria the characters of all infraspecific taxa are potentially represented. However, only two of them, viz. var. spinosa and var. microphylla f. microphylla, occur more frequently. The next three of them (var. diapulidis, var. oblongifolia and var. microphylla f. lobata) are only slightly represented. In the other plants two or even more infraspecific characters occur; they are therefore the transitional forms. Not only in the whole territory under investigation, but also at one locality near the village of Lozenica some infraspecific taxa and the transitional forms grow together, so that panmixis must inevitably take place. However, the whole distribution area of P. spinosa is relatively extensive, and it is not known for certain whether a stronger differentiation of infraspecific taxa has not already taken place in other parts of the distribution area. The preliminary data on distribution of P. spinosa and of its hybrids in Bulgaria is also mentioned here. 
4180841| Five new foliicolous species of Dimerella Trevisan (Gyalectaceae) are reported from a collection of lichens from Tanzania: D. flavicans sp. n., D. pocsii sp. n., D. subdilucida sp. n. ad int., D. tanzanica, sp. n. and D. usambarensis sp. n. A determination key is provided to all the known African foliicolous species. /// Ein gemeinsames Bestimmungsschlssel der aus Afrika bisher bekannten sowie in dieser Arbeit neu aufgestellten foliicolen Dimerella-Arten wird vorgelegt. Die Diagnosen und taxonomischen Kommentare zu den 4 neuen Arten (D. flavicans, D. pocsii, D. tanzanica, und D. usambarensis) werden prsentiert, eine Art (D. subdilucida) wird ad interim vorgestellt. Die bei den meisten Arten gefundenen Pycnosporen liefern wichtige Merkmale fr die Art-Charakteristik. Alle neuen Arten werden mit schematischen Zeichnungen dargestellt. 
4179587|The second part of the study is connected with the first part which comprised all the available data concerning the distribution of Rhynchospora alba in Czechoslovakia. It presents the results of cenological and synecological research, summarizes the cenotic and habitat characteristics of the species and, on the basis of results thus obtained, attempts at evaluating the diagnostic value of Rhynchospora alba and syntaxonomic position of its communities.
4180676|Thirteen species and one variety of Endophragmiella Sutton and three species of Phragmocephala Mason et Hughes collected by the author in Czechoslovakia, and occasionally in other regions of Europe are described and illustrated. Four new species and one new variety are described in Endophragmiella - E. aseptata Hol.-Jech., E. fatrensis Hol.-Jech., E. ramificata Hol.-Jech., E. similis Hol.-Jech. and E. uniseptata (Ellis) Hughes var. pusilla Hol.-Jech.
4180817| A new intergeneric hybrid  Dactylodenia vitosensis Jagieo (Dactylorhiza cordigera (Fries) So  Gymnadenia conopsea (L.) R. Br.) is described. It was found in 1985 in the National Park of Mt. Vitoa near Sofia (Bulgaria, Eastern Carpathians, alt. 1550 m). 
4181515| 267 published and 32 unpublished phytosociological relevs from North Korea were synthesized. As a result, a revision of the units of the ruderal and segetal terrestrial vegetation known so far, and a discussion of their relationship to the analogous Japanese and European vegetation are presented. 17 associations and 4 communities at association level have been distinguished. They are assigned to the classes Bidentetea (Bidentetalia, Panico-Bidention), Stellarietea mediae (Commelinetalia, Cassio-Phyllanthion, Cosmo--Humulion), Plantaginetea majoris (Plantaginetalia asiaticae, Plantaginion asiaticae) and Miscanthetea sinensis (Caricetalia nervatae, Zoysion japonicae). 
4180891|Energy structure and dynamics of the primary producers of a protected grassland situated at Berhampur, Orissa was investigated. Concentration and standing crop of energy during different months of the year showed a great variation. The system transfer function and efficiency of the grassland were estimated.
4181556| The rupicolous vegetation of the Asplenietea trichomanis in the south-western Iberian Peninsula is analysed using the methods of the Zrich-Montpellier School. Phytosociological tables, and biogeographical, ecological and floristic data are given for a number of syntaxa. A phytosociological synopsis of the studied vegetation was made for the entire region. Four new syntaxa are described: the Coincyo longirostri-Dianthetum lusitani, Jasiono marianae-Dianthetum lusitani jasionetosum tomentosae, Digitali thapsi-Dianthetum lusitani conopodietosum ramosi and Sedo hirsuti-Polypodietum cambrici polypodietosum interjecti. 
4179840| Die siebente Studie aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) enthlt die taxonomische Bearbeitung des Subg. Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. (Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum.) in Europa (inkl. Kleinasien) und Bemerkungen zu den nordamerikanischen Arten, die eingehend von Schuster (1969) bearbeitet wurden. Im genannten Gebiet kommen 8 Arten vor, u. zw. J. crenuliformis Aust., J. evansii nom. nov., J. fossombronioides Aust., J. hyalina Lyell in Hook., J. obovata Nees, J. paroica (Schiffn.) Grolle, J. subelliptica (Lindb. ex Kaal.) Lev. und J. subtilissima (Schiffn.) Grolle. Alle Arten gehren zu der Sektion Chascostoma (Lindb.) Va. /// This seventh study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys to the European (incl. Asia Minor) and North American species of the subgenus Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. of the genus Jungermannia L. emend. Dum., based on sterile and fertile plants. 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, type, exsiccata, ecological notes, distribution, material examined, taxonomic notes, variability and relationships of five species of the subgenus Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. growing in the above cited area. The species J. crenuliformis Aust., J. evansii Va (nomen novum for Nardia obscura Evans) and J. fossombronioides Aust. have been treated by Schuster (1969); all three species are distributed in eastern part of North America only. 3. Discussion of all infraspecific taxa on the basis of the concept of habitat modifications. Taxonomically, J. crenuliformis Aust., J. evansii Va (nom. nov.), J. fossombronioides Aust., J. hyalina Lyell in Hook., J. obovata Nees, J. paroica (Schiffn.) Grolle, J. subelliptica (Lindb. ex Kaal.) Lev. and J. subtilissima (Schiffn.) Grolle are shown to be good species. Some other taxa proved to be habitat modifications or are referred to the synonymy. 
4180896| The article comprises three subsequently published studies of the taxonomy of Cuban cyanophyte/cyanobacterial flora: (4) Lyngbyopsis willei: This oscillatorialean genus and species, described by Gardner (1927) from mountain creeks in Puerto Rico, was found more than 50 years later in similar localities in Cuba. The morphological variability of the Cuban populations is described and similarity with the genus Schizothrix (sect. Inactis) discussed. - (5) Cylindrospermum-species: The morphological variability of twenty-one Cylindrospermum-populations collected in Cuba was studied, documented by graphical methods and compared with the published data. Four new taxa were recognized (C. minutissimum v. rinoi, C. zonatum, C. bourrellyi, and C. desikacharyi). The other populations belong to the variation ranges of C. breve, C. minutissimum, C. michailovskoense, and C. muscicola v. kashmiriense. - (6) Gomphosphaerioideae-species: Fifty eight populations (9 species) of the subfamily Gomphosphaerioideae (Microcystaceae, Chroococcales) from freshwater biotopes of Cuba were evaluated: Four planktic species with a probable cosmopolitan distribution were found (Coelosphaerium kuetzinginianum, C. minutissimum, Snowella lacustris and Coelomoron pusillus), and from the genus Coelomoron Buell two new species, C. microcystoides and C. vestitus were described. The tropical planktic species Woronichinia fremyi forms occasionally water blooms in larger reservoirs. Two tropical species from the genus Gomphosphaeria Ktz. were recognized, G. multiplex (Nyg.) c. n. and G. semen-vitis sp. n. 
4180150| A species-rich flora consisting of about 350 species of vascular plants and 200 of bryophytes has developed in the Velk Kotlina cirque, as a result of biotope diversity and uninterrupted Postglacial evolution. A longlasting interaction of the species pool with a variety of habitats covering about 1 km
4179798| Experimental stratification and sowing-out of achenes of Chaerophyllum bulbosum L., Clematis vitalba L. and Hedera helix L., collected at various periods of the year, confirmed the opinion that, in species with hemibradysporic to bradysporic dissemination, the after-ripening of embryos takes place not only within the soil and during stratification, but under favourable conditions also directly on the mother plant. In seeds with dry pericarp, the after-ripening takes place under the influence of atmospheric moisture, while in fleshly fruits the same process develops under the influence of water absorbed from the fleshy part of the pericarp. /// Die Voraussetzung, dass bei den Samen mit unvollkommen entwickeltem Embryo die Embryos nicht nur in Boden, sondern bei gnstigen Bedingungen der Temperatur und Feuchtigkeit auch an der Muterpflanze nachreifen knnen, wurde an drei Arten mit hemibradysporischer bis bradysporischer Dissemination nachgeprft, u. zw. an Chaerophyllum bulbosum (Daucaceae), Clematis vitalba (Ranunculaceae) und Hedera helix (Araliaceae). Die zwei ersten Arten besitzen trockenen, die dritte Art fleischigen Perikarp. Die Diasporen von Chaerophyllum bulbosum und Clematis vitalba wurden den spontan oder subspontan wachsenden, die von Hedera helix den gepflanzten Pflanzen entnommen. Die Diasporen wurden nach und nach in verschiedenen Jahreszeiten, im Einklang mit der Natur jeder Art und mit anderen Umstnden, gesammelt. Zur Nachprfung der Voraussetzung ber die Nachreife der Embryos an der Mutterpflanze wurden folgende Versuche durchgefhrt: 1. Die Diasporen wurden bei verschiedenen Temperaturbedingungen stratifiziert und die Keimung wurde unmittelbar whrend der Stratifikation verfolgt. In den Tabellen sind die Ergebnisse jener Alternativen angefhrt, deren Temperaturbedingungen sich als geeignetste fr die Nachreife jeder Arten erwiesen. 2. An der Versuchsparzelle in Prhonice wurden die Frhlingsaussaaten von Clematis vitalba durchgefhrt. 3. Die Stadien der Embryos von Clematis vitalba und Hedera helix wurden auch an den Lngsschnitten der Samen studiert. Die Ergebnisse der Versuche mit der Stratifikation von Diasporen jeder Art, (siehe Tab. 2, 3, 5 und Abb. 1-3) haben in vllig besttigt, dass das Wachstum von Embryos der Arten mit hemibradysporischer bis bradysporischer Dissemination nicht nur im Boden und whrend der Stratifikation, sondern auch unmittelbar an der Mutterpflanze vor sich geht, und zwar in den Samen mit sowohl trockenem als auch fleischigem Perikarp. Die Nachreife von Embryos nach der Reife der Samen an der Mutterpflanze bei natrlichen Bedingungen hat zur Folge, dass  alle Samen (der Arten mit fleischigem Perikarp) oder ein Teil von ihnen (bei den Arten mit trockenen Frchten), die im Boden nicht berwinterten, sondern an der Mutterpflanze verblieben das nchste Jahr schon im Frhling keimen. Dies wurde auch besttigt durch die Ergebnisse des Versuches mit der Aussaat von Achenen von Clementis vitalba, die in verschiedenen Jahreszeiten gesammelt worden waren: whrend die im Dezember gesammelten Achenen seit Anfang Mai bis Ende Juni gar nicht keimten, keimten die seit Februar bis Mai gesammelten Achenen mit ca. 50 Prozent. Die Entwicklung der Form und Grsse der Embryos von Hedera helix und Clematis vitalba, die auch die Richtigkeit der Veraussetzung ber die Mglichkeit der Nachreife der Embryos unmittelbar an der Mutterpflanze nach der Samenreife besttigt hat, ist in Abb. 4 u. 5 schematisch veranschaulicht. Bei den Samen mit trockenem Perikarp kommt es zur Nachreife von Embryos an der Mutterpflanze unter der Voraussetzung, dass die Temperaturbedingungen gnstig sind, unter dem Einfluss der Absorption von Luftfeuchtigkeit, bei den Samen mit fleischigem Perikarp unter dem Einfluss der Absorption des im fleischigen Teil des Perikarps enthaltenen Wassers. Die Nachreife-Stufe der Embryos in trockenen Frchten hngt von der Art und Verteilung der Niederschlge in einzelnen Jahren, vom Temperaturgang whrend der Anschwellung der Samen sowie von der Anschwellungsstufe und Reifungsschnelligkeit der Embryos, sowohl bei einzelnen Arten als auch bei individuellen Samen, ab. Bei den Samen mit fleischigem Perikarp, wo die Samen stets angeschwollen sind, ohne Abwechslung von Anschwellungen und Austrockungen, ist die Nachreife von Samen nur von dem Temperaturgang abhngig. Infolgedessen ist die Nachreife von Embryos an der Mutterpflanze bei den Frchte mit fleischigem Perikarp mehr begnstigt (abgesehen von den Fllen, wo das Perisperm undurschlssig ist) als bei den Samen mit trockenem Perikarp. Dies wurde auch durch die Ergebnisse der Keimung whrend der Stratifikation einzelner Arten nachgewiesen (siehe Tab. 2, 3, 5). 
4180506| Twenty new nomenclatural combinations are proposed for various taxa. Haloscias Fries 1846 (aff. Ligusticum L. 1753), Hylebia (Koch) Fourr. 1868 (aff. Stellaria L. 1753) and Stuckenia Brner 1912 (aff. Potamogeton L. 1753) are accepted as separate genera, Acetosella (Meisn.) Fourr. 1869 is included in Acetosa Mill. 1754. 
4181087|Polycnemum majus A. Br. (Chenopodiaceae) represents one of the Euro-Asian species disappearing as a consequence of man's activities. The paper presents a brief survey of its morphology, distribution (with emphasis on the W part of Czechoslovakia), and taxonomy. The ecological characterization of communities with occurrence of P. majus is given. From the karyological point of view, P. majus represents a further case of hexaploidy in the Chenopodiaceae family, hitherto known in approximately 10% of genera. The basic chromosome number of x = 9 is proposed, with respect to chromosome numbers ascertained in P. majus for the first time (2n = 54) and in P. arvense (2n = 18). The annual hexaploid species P. majus was proved to be potentially self-fertile.
4181437| The montane coniferous forests and their degraded syntaxa included either in the Quercetalia ilicis or in the Quercetalia pubescenti-petraeae of the Meso- up to the Mountain-Mediterranean vegetation belts of Mount Killini, have been studied using the Braun-Blanquet method with 69 phytosociological relevs. The application of classification and ordination methods resulted in the recognition of seven forest and two scrub plant communities. These communities could be arranged along an altitudinal gradient. Their syntaxonomy and structure are described and the present horizontal and vertical arrangement of the coniferous syntaxa is mapped. From these syntaxa, 3 new associations and 1 new subassociation are described. The main factors influencing the differences in floristic composition, are altitude and human impact resulting in degradation of the coniferous forest associations. In addition, differences in soil parameters like pH, the presence of organic matter and nutrients appear to be important. Information on the site characteristics, structure and syndynamical position of the communities is given. 
4181371|Two new species of foliicolous lichens from New Zealand are described and illustrated. The most characteristic trait of Dimerella flava sp. nov. (Gyalectaceae) is its pale yellow tubular pycnidia, which clothe the algal-containing thallus on the upper surface of leaves and sometimes also on thin twigs. Porinula setifera sp. nov. (incertae sedis) is closely related to the type species of Porinula, P. tanzanica, but differs in having hyaline setae on its perithecia and mostly simple paraphysoids.
4179621| The generic name Fallopia Adans. 1763 is analysed from the point of view of its taxonomic identity and typified by Polygonum 'scandens L. 1753. By this typification it is taxonomically identical with Bilderdykia Dum. 1827 and must replace that name. The genus Fallopia Adans. is defined by comparison with related genera; it includes 9 species in two sections, and 1 hybrid; new nomenclatural combinations are proposed for these taxa. /// Der Autor nimmt als richtig an, die zu breit aufgefasste Gattung Polygonum L. in mehrere natrlicher abgegrenzte Gattungen einzuteilen. In der Tschechoslowakei sind in der einheimischen und einheimisch gewordenen Flora Arten folgender Gattungen vertreten: Polygonum L. restr. Hedberg; Persicaria Mill.; Bistorta Scop.; Aconogon (Meisn.) Reichenb.; Bilderdykia Dum.; Reynoutria Houytt.; Fagopyrum Mill. Im Umkreise der Gattung Bilderdykia Dum. 1827 existiert ein lterer Name, Fallopia Adans. 1763, dessen nomenklatorische Analyse durchgefhrt werden musste, damit die richtige Bentzung dieses Namens bestimmt werden konnte. Nach einer eingehenden Analyse des Protologes, die eine taxonomische Uneinheitlichkeit von Adanson's Gattung erwiesen hat, war es ntig, eine Verengung der Gattungsauffassung und ihre Typisierung durchzufhren. Auf Grund dieser Verengung und Typisierung sind Fallopia Adans. 1763 und Bilderdykia Dum. 1827 vom taxonomischen Gesichtspunkt identisch geworden. Der Autor nimmt Fallopia Adans. als den richtigen Namen an; Konservierung von Bilderdykia Dum. wird wegen ungengenden Grnden nicht vorgeschlagen. Die Gattung Fallopia Adans. wurde gegen einige Gruppen der Sammelgattung Polygonum L. s. l., in die ihre Arten einbegriffen wurden (Fagopyrum, Reynoutria) abgegrenzt; die Gattung enthlt 9 Arten in zwei Sektionen, und einen Bastard. Fr alle diese Taxa wurden neue nomenklatorische Kombinationen vorgeschlagen. 
4181270|Biomass allocation to roots, rhizomes, runners and climbing stems (i.e. twining axis and attached leaves) was studied in Calystegia sepium L., a clonal vine. In an experiment which took 2 months, nutrient availability (low and high) and intraspecific competition (none, shoot, root and both shoot and root) were manipulated. Under low nutrients the highest biomass of climbing stems was found in plants with shoot competition; the lowest was found in plants with both shoot and root competition. Total biomass under high nutrients was also greatest in plants with shoot competition. Thus, plants benefited from climbing up a shared stake rather than separate stakes. Larger plants allocated a higher proportion of biomass to runners in the nutrient-poor environment than in the nutrient-rich environment. This behaviour may increase the chance of finding nutrient-rich patches in the neighbourhood of the mother plant in a heterogeneous environment.
4180956|The study investigated various factors stimulating germination of seeds of four species of Chenopodium album agg. - C. album L. s. str., C. ficifolium Sm., C. strictum Roth, C. suecicum J. Murr. These factors were: storage in wet and cold, alternating temperature, nitrates mainly in combination with light and, to a lesser degree, the duration of chilling. Germination was inhibited by darkness, which was most marked with seeds of C. strictum. The effect of alternating temperature was better on the germination of C. ficifolium and C. suecicum than on that of C. album and C. strictum. We also discussed several differences in specific reactions of the individual species to the factors under consideration.
4180244|After a brief account of both past and present fishpond management and of its impact on the fishpond vegetation of higher plants, a survey is given of the biomass and total net production in various types of communities constituting this vegetation. Relatively stable and unstable communities are distinguished and further differentiated by the dominant plant life-forms. The biomass and production data are highly variable, depending on actual conditions in the fishpond habitats, but the maximum recorded values of annual net production (in terms of dry matter produced per year) appear to decrease in the following order: the communities dominated by ochthohydrophytes (over 3 kg. m
4180924| The salt marsh vegetation on the west coast of North Korea was studied by the method of the Zrich-Montpellier school. The following communities were distinguished: Suaedetum japonicae, Scirpetum iseensis, Artemisietum fukudo, and the following were described as new: Triglochini maritimae-Phragmitetum communis, Artemisio capillaris-Salsoletum komarovii and Salsolo komarovii-Rosetum rugosae. The phytocoenological material was also analysed by means of numerical techniques. The population density of Suaeda japonica was examined in accordance with the distance from the sea. The description of the zoning of the vegetation was based on the study of transects three localities and was supplemented by chemical analyses of the soil. 
4181202| The black alder (Alnus glutinosa (L.) Gaertn.) stands occupy 2.5% of the forest area in Latvia. The majority of its communities lie on peatlands; they have been studied in the whole of Latvia using the Braun-Blanquet approach. One hundred and fifty alder dominated relevs selected from 334 forest areas have been analysed. Three associations (Carici elongatae-Alnetum, Sphagno squarrosi-Alnetum, and Circaeo-Alnetum), one with four subassociations have been recognized; these belong to the Eurosiberian alder swamps (cl. Alnetea glutinosae) and the European broad-leaved forests (cl. Querco-Fagetea). The phytosociological structure, distribution in Latvia and floristic features of these communities are reported. Results are compared with similar communities in the Baltic Sea states and neighbouring countries. 
4179446| Die bisher verffentlichten Aufnahmen und Tabellen der azidophilen Eichen- und Eichenmischwlder (Klasse Quercetea robori-petraeae) in Bhmen, Mhren und im tschechoslowakischen Schlesien, wurden einer syntaxonomischen Revision unterzogen. Es wurden drei Assoziationen unterschieden: Luzulo-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Passarge 1953 em., Molinio-Quercetum ass. nova und Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum Oberdorfer 1957. Bei diesen Assoziationen wurden ihre Struktur, innere Variabilitt, die Standortsverhltnisse und die Verbreitung erforscht, weiter der Schriftenvergleich und die wirtschaftliche Wertung behandelt. Die Assoziationen wurden in einen neuen Verband Genisto germanicae-Quercion fed. nova eingereiht, welcher zur Ordnung Quercetalia robori-petraeae gehrt. Die subatlantisch-atlantischen azidophilen Eichen- und Eichenmischwlder wurden in den Verband Quercion roboris (Malcuit 1929) Txen 1930 eingegliedert. /// The accessible papers on vegetation plots (relevs) of acidophilous oak forests in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia published to date have been re-evaluated. The basic method employed was the floristic sociological tabular arrangement according to Braun-Blanquet. Of the 554 vegetation plots and synthetic tables that were investigated, 386 plots belong to the Quercetalia robori-petraeae order, the other plots to other classes (Carpinion, Fagion, Betulion pubescentis, Galio-Abietion alliances etc.). The results of the analysis led the authors to consider the subcontinental acidophilous oak forests as an independent alliance, the Genisto germanicae-Quercion, and to allocate the subatlantic-atlantic oak forests within the Quercion roboris (Malcuit 1929) Txen 1930, since the Quercion robori-petraeae alliance as understood by Braun-Blanquet 1932 was too broadly conceived. To this Genisto germanicae-Quercion belong the associations analysed below, i.e. the Luzulo-Quercetum, Molinio arundinaceae-Quercetum and Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum; to the Quercion roboris belong the associations Querco robori-Betuletum Txen (1930) 1937, Fago-Quercetum Tx. 1955, Violo-Quercetum (Tx. 1937) Oberd. 1957, Quercetum occidentale Gaume 1924 (corr. Braun-Blanquet 1932), and perhaps Blechno-Quercetum Braun-Blanquet et Txen 1952. The Genisto germanicae-Quercion can be characterized by the following species: Genista germanica, Cytisus nigricans, Platanthera bifolia, Silene nutans, Hieracium sabaudum and Hieracium racemosum. As character or differentiating species of the atlantic Quercion roboris alliance Lonicera periclymenum, Teucrium scorodonia, Lathyrus montanus, Hypericum pulchrum, Corydalis claviculata, or other atlantic species, e.g. Ilex aquifolium, Galium saxatile, etc. may be considered. On the basis of a new investigation three associations weree differentiated in the western regions of Czechoslovakia. They are the Luzulo albidae-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Passarge 1953 emend. Neuhusl et Neuhuslov, the Molinio arundinaceae-Quercetum ass. nova and the Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum Oberdorfer 1957. The Luzulo-Quercetum, which was previously most frequently specified as Quercetum medioeuropaeum Br-Bl. 1932 or as Genisto-Quercetum Klika 1932, is characterized by Luzula albida, Viola riviniana, Luzula campestris and Atrichum undulatum. This association is relatively rich in species. Apart from vague and ecologically insignificant species the acidophilous forest species constitute a substantial component of the association. The presence of some not very pretentious species of the Querco-Fagetea class (including the lower units), is also characteristic of the floristic composition of the Luzulo-Quercetum. The Luzulo-Quercetum has been divided into two subassociations (the genistetosum tinctoriae (Samek 1964) subass. nova and the typicum). The Genista tinctoria subassociation which occurs in warmer or drier regions and on dry sites with a southern aspect outside these regions, exhibits the following differentiating species: Genista tinctoria, Cytisus nigricans, Viscaria vulgaris and Silene nutans. The typical subassociation exhibits no differentiating species and represents the mesophilous type of this association. In the paper other lower units of the Luzulo-Quercetum are also analysed. The geographical distribution of the Luzulo-Quercetum (according to the revised vegetation plots) in Bohemia, Moravia-Silesia can be seen from the maps of localities (Fig. 1, 2). The area of this association has been little known as yet and encompasess the subcontinental part of Central Europe. The association thrives in lower positions on oligotrophic soils. However, it avoids extremely poor sandy and silicious soils deprived of nutrients as well as those affected by standing water, podzolic and semiligley soils. A survey of the literature and a short evaluation of the association are attached. The Molinio arundinaceae-Quercetum, formerly called Querco-Betuletum by Czechoslovak authors, is characterized by the character species Molinia arundinacea and the differentiating species Frangula alnus and Betula pubescens. This association is fairly poor. It lacks not only many character species of the alliance, but also the more demanding vague forest species and those of the Querco-Fagetea class. The Molinio-Quercetum has been divided into two subassociations according to floristic composition and habitat, viz. into a moister Populus tremula subassociation (differentiating species: Populus tremula, Lysimachia vulgaris, Hieracium laevigatum) and a dry Pleurozium schreberi-subassociation (differentiating species: Pleurozium schreberi, Carex pilulifera, Leucobryum glaucum, Polytrichum formosum). The association rests on periodically moist, rather oligotrophic and acid semiligley soils in the lower situations of our territory. The geographical distribution of the association can be seen from the map of localities (Fig. 3); outside Czechoslovakia very similar stands have been indicated in the central German dry territory. The Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum Oberd. 1957 represents a relatively continental type of our acidophilous, mixed oak forests. The following are considered character or differentiating species for the pine oak forest: Pinus silvestris, Vaccinium vitis-idaea, Dicranum polysetum and Cladonia. This association is very poor in species; the character species of the acidophilous oak forests (Quercetea robori-petraeae and the subordinated units) are very rarely represented, which also points to the allocation of this association in the Quercetea robori-petraeae class (in the direction towards the Vaccinio-Piceetea class). There occurs only one group of acidophilous forest species with a high cover degree and constancy. The association is divided into two subassociations, in the Convallaria majalis one (differentiating species: Convallaria majalis) and the Calluna vulgaris subassociation (differentiating species: Calluna vulgaris, Sieglingia decumbens, Potentilla erecta, Nardus stricta, Antennaria dioica). The Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum rests on the extremely poor, acid sandy weathering material of rocks poor in bases, on the sandstones of the cenomanian and sandy terraces. Its distribution on our territory can be seen in the map (Fig. 4). The area of Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum is not well known so far; it encompasses aproximately the space between the atlantic Quercion roboris communities and the continental Pinion communities. The units investigated are documented with vegetation plots and tables. 
4179556| Coleanthus subtilis ist in der Tschechoslowakei in den Herzynischen Bezirken, in einer Meereshhe von (180) 400-700 (900) m am meisten verbreitet. Das hufig ephemere und periodische Auftreten dieser Art mit polydisjunktivem Areal wird auf Grund kologischer Gesichtspunkte analysiert. Da die Art im vorigen Jahrhundert aus Bhmen beschrieben wurde, werden im Text einige historische Angaben angefhrt. /// Coleanthus subtilis is a species with a polydisjunctive area of distribution. In Czechoslovakia, where it occurs mainly in the Hercynic region of Bohemia and Moravia, 140 localities have been found. By comparison with the frequency of localities in other areas, this region has been shown to constitute the main area of occurrence for this species. The possible existence of further potential localities in this region is analyzed in this paper. The time interval at which the species has been collected at the single localities is stated. The chromosome number of the species has been confirmed to be 2n = 14 in our material. C. s. is a therophyte (pelochtophyte) with a life cycle lasting 6-7 weeks, the growth form being f. caespitosa. In view of the short period of vegetation, the variability of the morphoses is not very strong (f. typica, f. nana, f. luxurians, f. laxa). The species is adapted to life on drained substrate at river banks and the beds of stagnant waters by the specific character of its water relations. It is very sensitive to a drying of the substrate for longer periods, the optimal soil water capacity being 65% (by weight). Germination is abundant in fluctuating temperatures with an interval of 20 C. This might explain the appearance of two generations, one growing in spring, the other in autumn. Due to the ability of the seeds to float for a certain time (144 hours for whole seeds, 6 hours for seeds deprived of theirs paleae), C. s. is capable of hydrochoric dispersal to distances that are not very remote. The adherence of the seeds does not exclude also the possibility of ornithochoric distribution between the single areas, possibly in combination with the migration of some duck species. The seed production is enormous, even though the abundances of the species in the stands is small. If it is assumed that 5 individuals occur per 1 m
4179928|The mangrove formation on the coasts of S. Atlantic is very poor in species (only 6) compared with mangrove in S. and SE. Asia or E. Africa (more than 30). This fact cannot be explained by ecology. It is suggested that the main cause is the historically late origin of the Atlantic due to the continental drift.
4181182|Nomenclature, typification, generalised distribution, chromosome number, description and taxonomic notes are given for each of 15 species and subspecies recognised within Luzula sect. Luzula in Europe. Attention is paid to possible ways of evolution in the section in Europe. Critical cases are annotated without formal classification. Appendices with an identification key and a selection of herbarium specimens studied are provided.
4180882| Chromosome numbers of the following nine taxa of the Czechoslovak flora are given: Atriplex rosea L., Cardamine resedifolia L., Groenlandia densa (L.) Fourr., Isotes lacustris L., Lysimachia nemorum L., Parnassia palustris L., Phelipanche caesia (Rchb.) Sojk, Rumex patientia L. subsp. patientia and Symphytum officinale L. s. str. A new chromosome number of 2n = 80 is reported for Rumex patientia L. subsp. patientia. Chromosome numbers of another five taxa are first reported from Czechoslovakia. Each of the ascertained chromosome counts is discussed with respect to hitherto known reports. 
4180459| A method of simultaneous analysis of vertical and horizontal structure is described. It is particularly applicable to forest and shrubland. Data come from point-height analysis of vegetation: 100 sample points are arranged in 4 lines of 25, with 2 m between lines and 1 m between points on lines. At each point, specific lists of spaces intercepted optically are observed by vertical measurement strata. Strata depth is 10 cm when mean vegetation height is lower than 4-5 m, and 50 cm above this height. This study is based on height of upper vegetation presence, and applied to low forests of Nothofagus antarctica (Forest.) Verst. in Southern Chle and Argentina. The authors summarize the data sequence by the cumulative sum technique. This technique allows the rapid and clear delimitation of three dimensional mosaic units of vegetation whose height varies vertically from the mean height. The pattern of these mosaic units is shown as three dimensional block diagrams, giving a good representation of structural dominance patterns. 
4180461|Data used come from point-height analysis. 100 sample points are arranged in 4 lines of 25, with 24 m between lines and 1 m between points on lines. At each point, vertical lists of species are compiled, by measurement strata. Such strata depth is 10 cm when mean vegetation height in the stand is lower than 4-5 m and 50 cm when heigher. A synthetic vegetation profile is obtained by sum of species presences in each measurement stratum for all 100 observations. When these profiles are bimodal, vegetation can be divided in two at the secondary minimum level: the upper part is the canopy, the lower the understorey. Only the canopy structure is dealt with in this tudy. Several parameters, describing vertical structure of woody vegetation, are defined and measured. They are: (1) maximum height, (2) upper and lower canopy limits, (3) canopy depth and (4) density. Delimitation of canopy is achieved by calculating the hypegeometric probability of realisation groups of vegetation presence, or absence, in the vertical line of sight. The thickness is the difference between the two previous values (2) and (3) and density the number of intercepts between them. Horizontal variations in those structural parameters are revealed by cumulative sum method which demonstrates different types of pattern. Relations between horizontal variations are studied by pairs; actual values compared by linear correlation analysis while concordance between patterns are characterised by the coefficient of simple concordance of Sokal et Mitchner and by a binary autocorrelation coefficient. Shannon's formula enables an overall appreciation of canopy homogeneity. An example is applied to some stands of Nothofagus antarctica (Forest.) Verst. in Southern Chile and Argentina. The upper canopy limits are the same upper vegetation intercepts so canopies are smooth. High correlation exists between upper and lower limits of the canopies, and low correlation between the latter and thickness and density, so canopies are uniform.
4179419| Die Arbeit behandelt die Chorologie, kologie und phytoznologische Zugehrigkeit der Art Lactuca perennis L. in der SSR. In der Arbeit wird die Genese des Areals dieser Art besprochen und die Bedeutung der Migrationsstrmung innerhalb des karpatischen Bogens hervorgehoben. Der Verfasser weist auf einen entwicklungsmssigen Zusammenhang mit der westmediterranen Art Lactuca tenerrima Pourr. hin. Die Verbreitung in der Tschechoslowakei ist ausfhrlich angegeben, weiter werden kologische Faktoren analysiert und einige Arten mit hnlichen Hauptzgen des Areals angefhrt. /// 1. The species Lactuca perennis L. is a submediterranean-montane geoelement with a slight central-European-suboceanic tendency. 2. It may be assumed that there exists a developmental connection between the species Lactuca perennis and the west-mediterranean species Lactuca tenerrima Pour. L. tenerrima has more primitive morphologico-cytological conditions; at present it is already considerably specialized as a prominent xerothermic species. Also its present geographic area indicates a higher phylogenetic age (the younger Tertiary). In the wider regions of the Alps the glacial era may have caused genetic changes resulting in a new species. However, this species, Lactuca perennis, also shows a relatively high age compared with the majority of the members of the family Asteraceae. This is confirmed by the rather primitive genome, and also by an evident isolation within the scope of the genus, supported by an absence of interspecific hybridization, and, to a certain extent, also by its disjunctive area. L. perennis appears as a species which reached its edaphic and climatic limits a long time ago. 3. Of interest is the genesis of the area of the species L. perennis, which, in this paper, has been investigated primarily with regard to the territory of Czechoslovakia. In this species the main migratory activity probably occurred in the last interglacial, at which period the geographical distribution probably took place in an eastward direction as far as the Bulgarian mountains and towards the north-east via Transsylvania to the North Hungarian Highland. This migratory trend along the inner curve of the Carpathians distinguishes the species L. perennis and some further species from the whole group of taxa spreading from the Balkan peninsula to the territory of Czechoslovakia along the Illyrian-Noric way. If there arose a migratory trend also in this area (this may be assumed as having occurred in a north-eastern direction towards the Hungarian mountains rather than towards the north), then it must have been disturbed considerably by the east-Alpine glaciation in the last glacial epoch, whereas in the regions of Transsylvania and of the North Hungarian Highland the species L. perennis may have survived the unfavourable periods in suitable refuges. To assume the existence of refuges in the north-western part of the area in the course of the last glacial era is much more difficult, but their existence may nevertheless be assumed, and that primarily in the valleys of larger rivers along which important migration occurred in the history of the spreading of the species in the northern part of the area. 4. There is a more detailed investigation of the whole area. The northern limit in the western part of the area lies between latitude 50 and 51 50 N (its northernmost occurrence is near Darlingerode in the Hartz), in the eastern part it lies between latitude 48 and 4910 N (its northernmost occurrence is the Rozsutec mountain (?) and the Mann pass in Slovakia). Contact between the western and the eastern halves of the area is provided by localities near Obervellach in southern Austria. L. perennis is missing in the whole Pannonian lowland, in Lower Austria, and in Moravia. Because of lack of data it was difficult to define the southern limits. In the south it reaches to the Sierra de Mara and to the regions of Granada in the Pyrenean peninsula, in Italy to Monte Pollino. On the Balkan peninsula its southern limit running through Macedonia was defined more accurately on the basis of herbarium material. The easternmost locality ascertained is Shumla in Bulgaria at longitude 2656 E. The paper also mentions hitherto unknown finds made by Domin in the Djula mountains near Sevlyush in the Subcarpathian Ukraine as the first data on a spontaneous occurrence in the USSR. 5. There is a detailed description of the spreading of the species L. perennis in Czechoslovakia, an investigation of some of its migrations, and certain characteristic accompanying species in the various regions are frequently mentioned. Its spreading in Czechoslovakia has been illustrated by means of a complete list of individual localities arranged according to the phytogeographical wholes. In Bohemia L. perennis occurs exclusively in typically xerothermic regions with centres of spreading in the Bohemian Central Montains, in the region of the lower, Moldau, and in the Bohemian Kars. Along the narrow Moldau valley this species penetrated farthest towards the south to Kue south of Zvkov. In Moravia it is altogether absent. In Slovakia it has spread radially from the North Hungarian Highland dispersedly and irregularly over a major part of the region, especially in the southern foot-hills, in the Kars region, and in the valleys of larger rivers. 6. In the Czechoslovak flora there occur certain species with certain similarities with regard to area and with similar ecological requirements, and also species with an analogous Moravian hiatus (e.g. Ceterach officinarum, Allium strictum, Erysimum crepidifolium, Iris aphylla, Coronilla vaginalis, Erythronium denscanis). Of the submediterranean species some (e.g. Fumana procumbens, Erysimum crepidifolium, and Helianthemum canum) have their absolute northern limit in Central Europe similar to that of the species L. perennis. 7. The paper contains an analysis of the phytocoenological relationship of the species L. perennis under central-European conditions. L. perennis appears as an important species of the order Festucetalia vallesiacae Br.-Bl. et Tx. 43. In Bohemia it finds optimum conditions primarily in the xerothermic associations Erysimo (crepidifolii) - Festucetum vallesiacae Klika 33, Seseli (ossei) - Festucetum glaucae Klika (33) 39, Helianthemo (cani) - Seslerietum calcareae Klika 33, or in Caricetum humilis. In the xerothermic regions of Slovakia L. perennis predominates in associations of the order Festucetalia vallesiacae, and in the associations of the Carpathian phytocoenoses it occurs chiefly in Caricetum humilis carpaticum Sillinger 33 and in Seslerietum variae. In Bohemia and also in Slovakia it sometimes penetrates into thinned stands of the association Quercion pubescentis Klika 53 and, rarely, into initial stages on rocks. 8. L. perennis grows predominantly on dry, sunny, rocky slopes and rocky plateaus, mostly with a southern exposure. In the whole area it behaves like a distinctive basiphil. In Bohemia it grows chiefly on basalt and on Silurian-Devonian limestone, rarely on greenstone, arenaceous marl, slate, phonolite, and diorite, in Slovakia it grows on mesozoic limestones and dolomites, on basalt, and on andesite. It prefers humuscarbonate soil with skeleton. 9. The distribution of the species L. perennis in Czechoslovakia is characterized also by climatic factors. A majority of the localities are situated in regions with an average annual temperature of 8-9 C (average temperature in May 13 C). The annual average of precipitations in these regions in Bohemia is (470) - 500-550 - (600) mm, in the more variform terrain of Slovakia it is somewhat higher (550) - 650 -700 - (900) mm. However, the decisive factor is the microclimate of the different localities. 10. L. perennis shows a considerable amplitude in its vertical spreading; it grows in lowland as well as in the subalpine zone. In Bohemia its maximum occurrence is in the zone of from 200 to 400 m above sea level (highest 600 m), in Slovakia 250-650 m (lowest 115 m and highest 1100 m). 11. The infraspecific taxa found in Czechoslovakia, apart from the typical form also f. angustifolia (Wallr.), f. latifolia (Wallr.), f. subintegrifolia (Bornm.), and f. integrifolia (Bischoff), constitute only a wide variational amplitude in a single, considerably changeable character - the shape of the leaves. 12. A very rare case of albinism was recorded by Domin from the hill Velk Hora near Karltejn as the only finding in Czechoslovakia. 
4181442| A hybrid swarm between Viola lutea subsp. sudetica (2n=50, native species) and Viola tricolor (2n=26, introduced species) originated in the 1970's in the Krkonoe Mts. Analyses of chromosome numbers, reproductive biology, morphology, and ecology gave the following results: (1) Compared to the plants found in the 1970's, the number of colour morphs have decreased and the types now prevailing in the field are morphologically closer to V. lutea subsp. sudetica, forming a continuum. (2) In the field, hybrids having approximately the same chromosome number as the primary hybrids are most common. Some plants of the hybrid swarm have certain characters unknown to their parents. (3) In the field, autogamous types similar to V. tricolor were found. (4) A limited number of plants from the field and culture have higher somatic chromosome numbers than V. lutea subsp. sudetica; there was a tendency towards increasing chromosome numbers in their progeny (up to 2n=62). These plants have some new morphological characters (a small proportion of hexacolpate pollen) not found in the parents (nor in the other hybrids with prevailing tetracolpate and pentacolpate pollen grains) and higher pollen fertility in comparison to the other hybrids. These plants also have the highest germination rate. (5) There is a tendency for chromosome numbers to decline in the progeny of open pollinated hybrid plants in the lowland experimental garden. (6) The phenology of the plants in the mountain grasslands and the lowland garden is different; the parents behave in a totally contrasting manner. (7) In the field, at least some hybrids extend outside the geographical and ecological ranges of the parental species, invading new communities. (8) Seeds of V. tricolor do not show any dormancy and germinate in the year of production; most of the V. lutea subsp. sudetica seeds germinate during the spring of the following year. Hybrids with intermediate chromosome numbers had both types of germination strategy. The germination rate of intermediates with high chromosome numbers was even higher than that of V. tricolor. 
4179965| The paper summarizes the present state of knowledge on submerged and emergent macrophyte productivity as related to both natural and man-induced environmental factors. Particular attention is paid to the light and CO
4179743| Vesicular cavities in the lava fields of Northern Iceland communicate by small openings with the ground surface. Aeolian sediments, called the Icelandic loess, deposit over the bottom of these cavities, together with the reduced light intensity and equable microclimate, create specific biotopes occupied by sciophilous bryophytes and Cystopteris fragilis. A new association within the alliance Ctenidion Stefureac 1941 - Cystopteri-Distichietum capillacei Blakov ass. nova - is described in the present paper. 
4179892| In einer umfangreichen Kollektion foliikoler Flechten gesammelt von Dr. T. Pcs in Tanzania wurden 107 Arten festgestellt. Von diesen wurden 20 Arten und 2 Varietten als neu beschrieben. Ein neuer Typus von "Isidia scutelliformia", ein morphologisch ungewhnlicher Pyknidium-Typus und ein komplizierter konidientragender Fruchtkrper wurden auch beschrieben. Ein Bestimmungschlssel der afrikanischen foliikolen Bacidia-Arten und Bemerkungen fr die Umgrenzung der Familie Megalosporaceae (ad interim) sind angefhrt. /// In a large collection of foliicolous lichens from Tanzania, 107 species have been found; 42 for the first time. Twenty species and two varieties have been described as new. Three new species had no relation to existing genera and therefore it was necessary to establish three new genera. In three new Bacidia species a new typus of dish-like isidium (isidium scutelliforme), a morphologically unusual pycnidium, and a complicated fruit-body producing conidia have been discovered and described. A key for determination of all known African foliicollous species of the genus Bacidia is given. Notes to the circumscription of the family Megalosporaceae proposed ad interim are presented. New taxa: Bacidia africana sp. n., B. fragilis sp. n., B. permira sp. n., B. scutellifera sp. n., B. subsimilis sp. n., Byssoloma fadeni sp. n., B. supbolychromum sp. n., Catillaria congesta sp. n., Dimerella hypophylla sp., n., Enterographa effusa sp., n., Megalospora simplex sp. n., Pocsia gen. n., Pocsia marattiae sp. n., Porina apera sp. n., P. epiphylloides sp. n., P. longispora sp. n., P. multipunctata R. Sant. var. schizopora var. n., P. papillifera (Stirt.) Schill. var rubrofusca var. n., P. subpallescens sp., n., P. uluguruensis sp. n., Porinula gen. n., Porinula tanzanica sp. n., Pseudogyalecta gen. n., Pseudogyalecta verrucosa sp. n. and Tricharia armata sp. n. 
4181275|Fifteen successional seres from man-made habitats in central Europe were compared and the occurrence of clonal species assessed on the basis of cover data. The effects of soil moisture and nitrogen (expressed using Ellenberg indicator values) on the performance of clonal plants were also considered. Clonal species formed the dominant component of vegetation cover in the majority of the seres studied. In moist sites, their dominance was more pronounced and the peak in their relative cover occurred earlier in succession. The relative importance of species with guerilla type growth tended to increase with time in most seres and after 10 years these were mostly more important than those exhibiting phalanx type growth. The prevalence of guerilla species after 10 years was more obvious in moist seres. Clonal species were able to become dominant regardless of soil conditions, whereas the dominance of non-clonal species tended to be restricted to very wet and nutrient-poor sites. Clonal plant species appeared to maintain their dominance for a longer period than non-clonal plants.
4181316| The syntaxa of the near-natural sand steppes (class Festucetea vaginatae) and their substitutes due to trampling (Chenopodietea) were studied in 1991 during the Ukrainian-Czech expedition to the Birjuij Island Spit (Azov Sea, Ukraine). Within the alliance Festucion beckeri Vicherek 1972 (class Festucetea vaginatae. So 1968 emend. Vicherek 1972, order Festucetalia vaginatae So 1957) three associations and five communities without rank are described, covering the vegetation variability along gradients of sand stabilization/soil development and salinization/moisture. Further, two associations of the class Chenopodietea, due to deer influence, are described. Four associations (Centaureo odessanae-Stipetum capillatae, Poo bulbosae-Caricetum colchicae, Secali-Cynodontetum dactyli and Heliotropio dolosi-Brometum japonici) are described as new. 
4180833|Seven associations of segetal vegetation are distinguished for the vast arable lands of Central Yakutia. Low species richness and the prevalence of annual weeds are the main features of these communities. Only two dominant species Sphallerocarpus gracilis and Saussurea amara represent Asian types of areals. Other dominants Fallopia convolvulus, Elytrigia repens, Chenopodium album, Brassica campestris, Lappula squarrosa, Scutellaria galericulata, Thlaspi arvense, Avena fatua and Crepis tectorum are typically cosmopolitan. The phytosociological system of the segetal communities is described.
4180886|The main features of autogenic bog development are discussed. Using extensive literature the changes in vegetation, surface topography, soil environment and hydrology are characterized. Oligotrophy and low pH seem to be the most important factors directing bog succession. The decrease in decomposition rates correlates with increase of the content of dissolved oxygen in the soil water. Due to substantial changes in local environment bog succession should be considered first of all as an ecosystem process. In comparison with mineral land communities bog succession is characterized by more deterministic development. Both successional convergence and divergence are observed. In every case the concrete character of bog dynamics depends on the spatial and temporal scales of investigation.
4179463| Der Formenkreis von Riccia crystallina besteht aus zwei Arten: R. crystallina L. emend. Raddi und R. cavernosa Hoffm. emend. Raddi. Die Nomenklatur ist bisher nur provisorisch. R. crystallina erscheint vorlufig als mediterranes Element, R. cavernosa ist berall auf der ganzen Welt verbreitet. Bei der Art R. cavernosa wird eine neue Variett R. cavernosa var. latior var. n. beschrieben. Eine revidierte bersicht von Herbarbelegen ist angefhrt. /// Parmi les Riccia nommes jusqu'ici gnralement crystallina on peut distinguer deux espces: R. crystallina L. emend. Raddi et R. cavernosa Hoffm. emend. Raddi. Utilisation de ces noms n'est que provisoire. La cl suivante rsume leurs diffrences morphologiques: Thalle vert-bleut, dans les rosettes ou dans les parties de la forme de coin, seulement peu et courtement divis, ayant sur la face dorsale de trs petits pores. Capsules non saillantes. Spores de 60-84 m de diamtre, les alvoles  la face distale presque compltement limites,  l'intersections des cloisons avec les tubercules au sommet bident. Aile portant 1-3 pores nettement visibles... R. crystallina Thalle vert-jaune,  divisions trs nombreuses et profondes, sur la face dorsale grossirement perfor - spongieux. Capsules fortement saillantes. Spores de 62-120 m de diamtre, les alvoles  la face distale irrgulires et incompltement limites (au moins dans la partie centrale), aux intersections des cloisons manquent les tubercules bidents. Aile dpourvue de pores.. R. cavernosa Ces deux espces diffrent non seulement au point de vue morphologique mais aussi de la distribution gographique: R. crystallina semble jusqu'alors mditerranenne, il faut corriger tous les indications de R. crystallina sauf ce territoire - dans le cas douteux la revision du matriel fertile est ncessaire. R. cavernosa est connue dans une grande partie du monde. Chez l'espce R. cavernosa existent deux varits diffrentes par le caractre de la ramification du thalle. La cl suivante montre leurs diffrences: Thalle multiple, toujours clairement dichotome, les ramifications loignes, les individus en rgle gnrale seulement avec une branche du
4181246|Higher syntaxa of the class Asteretea tripolium are reviewed. This class covers plant communities of the Euro-Asian continent on low- and medium-salinized soils with medium moisture conditions where perennial herbaceous plants (hemicryptophytes) of non-succulent character prevail. On the territory of the former USSR and Mongolia, the class Asteretea tripolium is represented by the following orders: Glauco-Puccinellietalia Beeftink et Westhoff in Beeftink 1962, Cirsietalia esculenti Mirkin et V. Golub ex V. Golub ord. novus, Scorzonero-Juncetalia gerardii Vicherek 1973, Halerpestetalia Mirkin et al. ex V. Golub ord. novus, Artemisio santonicae-Limonietalia gmelinii V. Golub et V. Solomakha 1988, Suaedetalia corniculatae V. Golub ord. novus. Superspecies and aggregations of species are used for the diagnosis of higher syntaxa.
4179535| Fr folgende inkorrekte Epitheta schlgt der Autor richtige Namen vor, die in Klammern angefhrt sind: Potentilla opizii Dom. (= P. lindackeri Tausch), P. dealbata Bunge (= P. virgata Lehm.), P. poterioides Franch. (= P. limprichtii J. Krause), P. fulgens Wall. ex Hook. (= P. siemersiana Lehm.), P. labradorica Lehm. (= P. flexuosa Raf.), P. ambigua Camb. (= P. cuneifolia Bertol.), P. anserina ssp. egedii (Wormsk.) Hiit. (= P. anserina ssp. groenlandica Tratt.), P. raddeana (Wolf) Juz. (= P. bertramii Aznav.) und P. bipinnatifida Dougl. ex Hook. (= P. normalis Bess. ex Spreng.). Fr P. nudicaulis Boiss. et Bal., P. eremica Wolf und P. sericata Wolf werden nomina nova verffentlicht. Es werden einige neue Kombinationen angefhrt: P. supina L. ssp. paradoxa (Nutt. ex Torr. et Gray) c.n., P. hispanica Zimm. ssp. oreodoxa (Sojk) c. n. und P. h. ssp. ibrahimiana (Maire) c. n. Strauchige Arten, oft in die Gattung Potentilla eingereiht, betrachtet der Autor als eine selbstndige Gattung Pentaphylloides und in dieser Gattung fhrt er einige neue Kombinationen (5 fr Arten, 4 fr Hybriden) an. 
4179479| Das in der sdtoskanischen Maremma klimatogene Quercetum ilicis wird in regelmssigen Abstnden von etwa 12 Jahren kahlgeschlagen, wodurch tiefgreifende nderungen in der Vegetation entstehen. Es wird in den ersten zwei Jahren ein Massenauftreten von Therophyten beobachtet und bald darauf eine allmhliche Wiederentwicklung des Waldes, die durch Stockausschlge der krftigeren Holzarten zustande kommt. Die hufig auftretenden Brnde bedingen hingegen das Entstehen des Ericeto-Lavanduletum als degradierte Dauergesellschaft. Die vorliegende Arbeit stellt einen Versuch dar, die wichtigsten Momente dieser Sukzession zu beschreiben, u. zw. mit floristischen Angaben und mit der Bearbeitung von Lebensformen, kologischen Synusien, Schichtung, Verbreitungstypen und Polyploidie. /// The Quercetum ilicis galloprovinciale is largely distributed in Southern Toscana and only here and there substituted by the Ericeto-Levanduletum stoechidis or still more rarely by deciduous forests; cultures and permanent meadows do not exist at all. The Quercetum ilicis galloprovinciale (Tab. 1) is here in a special subassociation (arbutetosum) that occurs on moderately acid soils and moist habitats; the subass. pistacietosum largely diffused in the western Mediterranean, has been found only outside the studied zone in the immediate proximity of the coast. The Quercetum ilicis is very seldom found nowadays as a real forest of lofty trees, as it is cut down about every 12 years; the substituting vegetation (Tab. 2) does not form a distinct association. The Ericeto-Lavanduletum (Tab. 3) develops on slopes on which after repeated fires vegetation and soil have been largely impoverished. It constitutes an acidophilous permanent association that consists chiefly of bushes and is represented in the zone by a special chorological subassociation. The substituting vegetation has been studied in its succession and the most important results seem to be the following: 1. The floristic composition shows great fluctuations especially within the first 3 years following the cut; afterwards large amounts of weeds strange to the forest often appear but the species of the Quercetum ilicis remain and become dominant after five to seven years. 2. The number of species consequently augments within the first years from 25 to 60. 3. The most diffused woody plant after the cut is Arbutus unedo and only some years later Quercus ilex becomes completely dominant. 4. The annuals augment very much within the first years (up to 50%), but disappear afterwards gradually. 5. The species that appear after the cutting of the trees possess seeds with very efficient means of dispersal, but in some cases it must be supposed that the seeds had already been present in the soil before the destruction of the forest. 6. During the renewal of the forest the percentage of polyploids augments remarkably. 
4180518| The present study describes communities of flooded sites (Agropyro-Rumicion) on the shores of Rozko reservoir in E. Bohemia. Sources of variation and phases of differentiation of these communities are described. The differentiation of these communities is predominantly determined by the original communities, by gradients of flood-water depth and of soil water content, by the pool of propagules available, and by increasing competition during the ecocycle. The structure of communities was studied by various multivariate methods (cluster analysis, PCA, DCA). Some comments on the methods used are also given. The necessity of studies of community dynamics was stressed as being very important for correct classification. 
4179776|The authors give measurements of osmotic values in 35 Cuban plant species, using the cryoscopic method. Osmotic values of plants correspond relatively well with environmental conditions, but in different species of the same habitat they may be different. The lowest values were found in Cactaceae (-1.6 to -6.2 atm.) and in epiphytic Bromeliaceae (-4.6 to -4.7 atm.), the highest in halophytes: -21 to -56 atm.
4180584|A new association, the Cassio lineatae-Aristidetum neglectae, the only representative of the alliance Cassio lineatae-Aristidion neglectae Bal.-Tul. all. nova is described. The association occurs in the open serpentine areas in Matanzas province, Cuba.
4179550|This paper is devoted to the taxonomy of those species of the genus Echinodorus in which the blades have pellucid lines connected in an irregular network. This concerns Echinodorus longipetalus Mich., E. tunicatus Small and two new species E. horizontalis sp. n. from the Amazone basin and E. glandulosus sp. n. from Brazil. Diagnoses and geographical distribution are presented.
4180409| In the protected landscape region of Jizersk hory mountains and the surrounding region, wet meadow plant communities were studied. A close relationship exists between the distribution of the analyzed communities and environmental properties. Apart from the differences expressed in the reconstruction mapping units, various environmental variables were taken into consideration: height above sea level, geological substratum, climatic regime, inclination, exposition, soil moisture, humus content and quality, content of H
4181470|The development of the taxonomy of the European bramble flora is discussed. Previous taxonomic concepts were mainly (1) description of each different bramble bush as a species of its own, (2) treatment of bramble taxa with hybrid formulas, (3) arranging of bramble taxa as infraspecific taxa within an artificial system, (4) creation of special taxonomic units like "agamospecies". In modern taxonomy only well stabilized apomicts with a regional or wider distribution are taken into consideration and treated as species. Merely locally distributed brambles or the countless individual biotypes (spontaneous hybrids and their derivatives) are no longer a subject of special taxonomic treatment. The research into bramble flora has made considerable progress during the last 25 years, and the species of large parts of Europe are now well known including their distribution which is often illustrated by detailed maps.
4181512|Seed bank species-composition and seed-density were determined in a successional calcareous (alvar) grassland in western Estonia. Three similar study areas were chosen to compare two different successional stages: open alvar grassland and overgrown areas with young pine forest 30 to 40 years old. In both successional stages, the centre and the edge of a relatively uniform stand were examined. Fifteen soil samples (7 cm in diameter, 5 cm deep) were taken from each of twelve sampling sites. The seedling emergence method was used to estimate seeds in the soil samples. A total of 69 species were detected in the seed bank, of which 18 did not occur in the vegetation. Eighty-nine taxa were recorded in the vegetation and of these 38 were not detected in the seed bank. Fifty-one species occurred both in the seed bank and in the vegetation. The three most abundant taxa in the seed bank were Carex tomentosa, Linum catharticum and Plantago media, which together made up 49% of the seedlings recorded. Differences in the species compositions of seed bank samples from grassland and forest sites were negligible, although the species richness per area of the above-ground vegetation was significantly higher in the open grassland. The only species tending to be lost from forest site vegetation but still occurring in the forest soil seed bank were Arenaria serpylifolia, Cerastium fontanum and Linum catharticum. About half of all the emerged species from all samples belonged to the transient or short-term persistent seed bank. In the grassland sites there were more species which belonged to the transient seed bank than in the forest sites, where the seed bank contained more short-term persistent type seeds. The seed density was significantly higher in forest sites and lower in grassland sites, which may be explained by the better germination conditions in well-illuminated communities. On the basis of the current study it might be assumed that the soil seed banks of overgrown alvar grasslands which include young pine forests can play a certain role in grassland restoration management.
4179996| Eine neue Gattung und Species aus Tasmanien wird beschrieben: Conotremopsis weberiana. Im Apothecienbau hat die Art einige Merkmale mit den Arten der Gattungen Conotrema Tuck. und Ramonia Stiz. em. Vzda gemeinsam; von diesen unterscheidet sie sich u. a. durch den fadenfrmigen Thallus mit Trentepohlia-Algen. Ihre fdigen Sporen gehren zu den lngsten, die bisher bei den Flechten beobachtet wurden. /// The new genus and species, Conotremopsis weberiana gen. n. et sp. n., described from Tasmania, is distinguished by the following combination of characters: white, filamentous, woolly thallus with Trentepohlia as phycobiont, elongated keeve-like apothecia at first closed, later opening apically, unbranched paraphyses and cylindrical asci containing unusual long filamentous spores with transverse septa. The structure of the apothecium suggests close affinity to Conotrema Tuck. and Ramonia Stiz. em. Vzda. The genus is systematically intermediate between these two genera. 
4181142|Sixth full report on the series Lichenes selecti exsiccati is given. Contributing collectors, dates of issue, taxa determinations and their corrections, list of recipient herbaria and alphabetical index to taxa are reported.
4180353| The present paper deals with cytotaxonomy of Chelidonium majus L. s. 1. taxa and their hybrids. Based on results of hybridization experiments, cytology and reproductive isolation, a new combination, Ch. asiaticum (Hara) Krahulcov, is proposed. The structure of the aggregate is as follows: Ch. majus L. subsp. majus (2n = 12, distributed in Europe), Ch. majus L. subsp. grandiflorum (DC.) Printz (2n = 12, S. Siberia, China) and Ch. asiaticum (2n = 10, E. Asia). Karyotypes of Ch. m. subsp. grandiflorum and Ch. asiaticum are compared in detail. 
4179533| Der Autor hat im Jahre 1966 den ursprnglichen Fundort von Rosa sancti-Andreae Degen et Trautmann beim Stdtchen Szentendre in Ungarn besucht, wo der Strauch, nach dem die neue Art im Jahre 1924 beschrieben wurde, noch immer wchst. Er studierte auch umfangreiches Herbariummaterial aus dem Umkreise der Verwandtschaft der Art und auf Grund dieser Studien gelangte er zur Ansicht, dass Rosa sancti-Andreae Deg. et Trautm. mit der frher beschriebenen Art Rosa pomifera Herrm. bereinstimmt und daher ihr Synonym ist. /// In 1924 Degen and Trautmann described (in Jvorka 1924) a new species Rosa sancti-Andreae, endemic in Hungary. In the opinion of the authors this species is allied to R. tomentosa Sm. but differs from it by having glands on the margins of petals. Comparative studies of test material showed this sign also often on R. mollis Sm. and especially on R. pomifera Herrm. on individuals from various localities in the whole area. As R. sancti-Andreae conforms to R. pomifera Herrm. in other morphological signs (with R. tomentosa Sm. it is not closely related, however, and not even similar), there is no doubt that Degen's and Trautmann's new taxon is in fact Rosa pomifera Herrm. and that the name Rosa sancti-Andreae Deg. et Trautm. ought to be classed with synonyms of this species. 
4181131| The method of pollen analysis was used to study a profile sample taken from the Jestebsk blato mire, the Doksy District (northern Bohemia). The aim of the palaeobotanical analyses was to perform a reconstruction of vegetation and environment for geobotanical and archaeological research purposes. Sediments dating back to the end of the Late Glacial and to both the Early and Middle Holocene were pollenanalytically studied. The results of the pollen analyses recorded the development of vegetation during the end of the Late Glacial, Preboreal, Boreal and Atlantic Periods. Parkline pine stands of the end of the Late Glacial developed to closed pine forests, during the Preboreal. Even during the Boreal, the dominant pine formed forest communities were typical of the area under study, though trees with greater demands on temperature and moisture conditions continued to penetrate the existing communities. During the Lower and the first half of the Upper Atlantic Period, spruce forests and alder woods formed the dominant forest communities in mire. Nevertheless, Pinus was still dominant on extreme sites (both from the edaphic and geomorphological points of view). An early occurrence of Alnus and Picea is another characteristic feature of the studied area. The conclusions drawn from pollenanalytical results were used for the reconstruction of the past environment of the Mesolithic and Neolithic Ages. /// Die Studie legt die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalyse aus dem Moor Jestebsk blato im Doksy-Gebiet dar. Im Zusammenhang mit der komplexen palobotanischen Forschung in der Tschechoslowakei wurde mit den palobotanischen Analysen auch im erwhnten Gebiet begonnen. Der palobotanischen Untersuchungen der Torfsedimente bediente sich auch die modern aufgefasste archologische Forschung, die in diesem Gebiet eine Besiedlung im Palolithikum, Mesolithikum und im Neolithikum festgestellt hat. Die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalyse des Moores Jestebsk blato ermglichten es, eine Rekonstruktion der Vegetationsentwicklung in der jngeren Dryaszeit, im Prboreal, Boreal und im lteren und jngeren Atlantikum durchzufhren. Fr den Zeitraum des jngeren Abschnittes des Holozns fehlen wegen Abwesenheit des zugehrigen Sediments die ntigen Angaben. In der jngeren Dryaszeit (DR3) war das Doksy-Gebiet mit parkartigen Kiefernbestnden mit der absolut vorherrschenden Art Pinus sylvestris bedeckt. Ungelst ist bis jetzt die Frage des Vorkommens der Art Pinus cembra, deren Pollentyp sporadisch gefunden wurde. In die Bestnde waren die baumartigen Birken und Populus tremula eingestreut; im Unterholz befand sich Juniperus. Von den Pollenfunden, von den pedologischen Bedingungen, von den Lichtverhltnissen und auch von anderen Umstnden kann man auch auf das Vorkommen von Hippophae rhamnoides in der DR3 sowie auf einige andere Komponenten der Krautschicht (Selaginella selaginoides, Botrychium, Helianthemum) direkt im Gebiet schliessen. Die Pflanzendecke des Moores Jestebsk blato wurde in diesem Zeitraum von Flachmoorgesellschaften gebildet. Im Prboreal (PB) setzte sich die Bewaldung des Gebietes mit Kiefernbestnden mit Beimischungen von Gehlzen fort, die schon in der DR3 anwesend waren. Den Pollenfunden nach ist es sehr wahrscheinlich, dass im PB schon auch Alnus wuchs. Im Vergleich zu anderen Gebieten der Tschechoslowakei wrde es sich jedoch um ein verhltnismssig frhes Vorkommen handeln. In der Krautschicht klang in Laufe des PB das Vorkommen von Formationen der sptglazialen "Steppentundra" ab. Am Lager herrschten immer noch Flachmoorwiesen-Gesellschaften vor. Im Boreal (BO) war das Doksy-Gebiet mit Kiefernwldern mit Birke bewaldet. Die Verschlechterung der Lichtverhltnisse fhrte zum Rckgang von Juniperus und Hippophae. Ausser Alnus kam im Gebiet vereinzelt auch Picea vor und sporadisch drangen in diesen Raum Tilia, Ulmus und Quercus ein. Zum Unterschied von etlichen mittelleuropischen Gebieten kam es im Doksy-Gebiet, hnlich wie z.B.- im Becken Tebosk pnev, nicht zur Expansion von Corylus. In die Flachmoorgesellschaften des Moores Jestebsk blato begann im BO auch Alnus einzudringen. Im lteren Atlantikum (AT1) breiteten sich im Doksy-Gebiet Laubgehlze aus, vor allem Tilia und Quercus, weniger dann Ulmus und Corylus. Es kam auch zur heftigen Expansion von Alnus und whrend des jngeren Atlantikums (AT2) auch von Picea. Trotzdem bewahrten an extremen Substraten der Sandsteine und Sande Pinus sylvestris immer noch ihre wichtige Stellung. Das Jestebsk blato war im AT1 von Erlenwldern bewachsen, in die im Laufe AT2 Picea eindrang. Gegen Ende dieser Periode bildeten sich in den Randpartien des Moores wahrscheinlich auch Fichten-Erlenwlder und Moor-Fichtenwlder. Die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen haben bewiesen, dass im Mesolithikum die Doksy-Region vorwiegend von schtteren Kiefernbestnden bewachsen war; die Landschaft war leicht zugnglich, passierbar und bersichtlich. Obgleich es vorlufig nicht gelungen ist, mit Hilfe der Pollenanalyse die Existenz von Seen nachzuweisen - die hier aber hchstwahrscheinlich vorhanden waren -, war diese Region fr die mesolithische Besiedlung geeignet. Im lteren und jngeren Atlantikum war das Untersuchungsgebiet schon ziemlich dicht bewaldet. Das eigentliche Becken Jestebsk kotlina war jedoch wegen der ausgedehnten Smpfe fast berhaupt unzugnglich (Flachmoorgesellschaften, Schilfe, Erlenwlder, Fichten-Erlenwlder). Dieses Gebiet ohne grssere Schwierigkeiten zu passieren war nur dort mglich, wo infolge der edaphischen und geomorphologischen Verhltnisse die Kiefernwlder erhalten geblieben sind und dort, wo Bestnde des Eichenmisch- bzw. Eichen-Kiefernwaldes vorhanden waren. Es fehlen die Angaben ber die Entwicklung der Vegetation in den jngeren Zeitabschnitten, da das Sediment fehlt bzw. zerstrt ist. 
4180462|Nine new Alchemilla species and six new varieties are described in subsect. Euvulgares ser. Subglabrae and subsect. Calicinae. Further, for one species a new name is proposed. The plants published as new mostly come from the higher altitudes of the Slovakian mountains. Problems in the treatment of A. obtusa Bus., A. glabra Neyg., and A. incisa Bus. are discussed.
4181319|Aldrovanda vesiculosa, a critically endangered aquatic carnivorous plant, is a species rapidly vanishing from Europe. A map of its recent European distribution is given. Of its earlier distribution area covering a substantial part of Europe, only a few native sites in Hungary, Poland, Romania, Russia and Ukraine remain. On the basis of the literature, field research in Aldrovanda habitats, and experience of its cultivation both in culture and in the field, its ecological requirements and habitat characteristics are reviewed. The most important requirements appear to be a high CO
4180398| This paper deals with 19 species of foliicolous lichens collected in the summer months of 1977 to 1980 during several excursions to the vicinity of the spas Sochi, Gagra and Sukhumi on the east shores of the Black Sea (part of the Colchis). Some new taxa and one new combination are proposed: Raciborskiella minor Vzda (sp. n.), Porina colchica Vzda (sp. n.), Gyalectidium caucasicum (Elenk. et Woronich.) Vzda (comb. n.), G. colchicum Vzda (sp. n.), Bacidia vasakii Vzda (sp. n.). Taxonomical, ecological and plant geographical notes to all species are given. /// Das fast subtropische Klima und das immergrne Laub verschiedener Gehlze in den von Menschen nur wenig beeinflussten Urwldern in den tiefen Bach- und Flusstlern an der Ostkste des Schwarzen Meeres (Kolchis) ermglichen die berraschende Existenz mehrerer Arten tropischer foliicoler Flechten in einem Gebiet, das von den tropischen und subtropischen Zonen weit entfernt in der gemssigten Zone liegt. Whrend mehrerer Exkursionen in den Sommermonaten 1977-1980 in der weiteren Umgebung der Kurorte Soi, Gagra und Suchumi an der Kste der Kolchis wurden insgesamt 19 blattbewohnende Flechten-Arten entdeckt. Einige von ihnen wurden als species novae erkannt, andere bedurften nherer taxonomischer Untersuchungen. Es sind dies die Arten: Raciborskiella minor (sp. n.), Strigula elegans (Fe) Mll. Arg., S. nitidula Mont., Porina colchica (sp. n.), P. hoehneliana (Jaap) R. Sant., P. oxneri R. Sant., P. rubentior (Stirt.) R. Sant., Echinoplaca epiphylla Fe, Gyalectidium caucasicum (Elenk. et Woronich.) Vzda (comb. n.) G. colchicum (sp. n.), Gyalidea phyllophila Vzda, Bacidia apiahica (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr., B. buxi Vzda et Vivat, B. colchica Vzda, B. vasakii (sp. n.), Byssoloma leucoblepharum (Nyl.) Vain em. R. Sant., B. subdiscordans (Nyl.) P. James, Catillaria bouteillei (Desm.) Zahlbr. und Tapellaria cf. epiphylla (Mll. Arg.) R. Sant. Zu allen Arten werden taxonomische Bemerkungen beigefgt. Von Gyalectidium colchicum werden die schuppenfrmigen Hyphophoren nher behandelt. In ihren Hyphenbscheln befinden sich kleinzellige Algen-Zellen, die die Funktion haben, sich zusammen mit dem Hyphenbschel als Flechtendiaspore zu verbreiten. hnlich gebaute Hyphophoren wurden auch bei G. caucasicum und G. filicinum gefunden: sie stellen ein wichtiges Merkmal fr die Gattungscharakteristik von Gyalectidium dar. Fr Catillaria bouteillei und fr viele andere, meist epiphylle Catillaria-, Bacidia- und Lopadium-Arten mit paraplectenchymatischen Excipula, dnnen, meist verzweigten und anastomosierenden, von der Hymenialgelatine kaum abtrennbaren Paraphysen, und mit an den Septen eingeschnrten Sporen mit verleimten Aussenmembranen, wurde eine neue Gattung Lobaca ad interim vorgeschlagen. Bei dieser Gattung, sowie bei den verwandten Gattungen Tapellaria Mll. Arg. em. R. Sant., Sporopodium Mont. em. R. Sant. und Lasioloma R. Sant. wachsen aus dem Lager spezielle, kompliziert gebaute Conidangien, die von Mller Arg. als Kampylidien bezeichnet wurden, von vielen anderen Autoren aber unrichtig fr Fruchtkrper (Conidiomate) parasitisch oder parasymbiontisch auf dem Flechtenlager lebender Pilze (unter den Namen Pyrenotrichum Mont., Chlorocyphella Speg., Cyphella sp., Acleistomyces Batista et Lima, usw.) gehalten wurden. Eine kurze kologische und phytogeographische Charakteristik aller behandelten Arten wird gegeben. 
4180034|The relationship of water deficit, actual water content, area, water loss and stomatal behaviour in leaves of different insertion levels of three members of Indian arid zone Convolvulaceae - Merremia aegyptia, M. dissecta and Ipomoea pes-caprae were measured simultaneously in the month of May, 1974, when field conditions were extremely adverse for growth. The two former species loose far more water than the latter. The values measured varied considerably with the leaf insertion levels and they reversed in I. pes-caprae when compared with Merremia species.
4180498| A new association Teucrio chamaedrys-Festucetum rupicolae, the origin and development of which are due to specific soil relations on lapis as well as to the character of human activity (deforestation, grazing) in the localities or in their close vicinity, was described from the lapis slopes in the Moravian Karst. The species composition of the phytocoenoses of the association and of the two newly described subassociations (-sedetosum, -typicum) is shown in the phytocoenological table. Due attention is given to the synmorphology, synecology, synchorology, and syngenesis of these units. 
4181519| Recent hybrid speciation events between the diploid Cardamine rivularis and the diploid C. amara leading to the triploid C. insueta were investigated with random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). The hybrid nature of C. insueta was confirmed by the additivity of RAPD markers which discriminate the parent species. An unexpectedly high level of genetic variation within C. insueta argues for several hybridization events and/or backcrossing with C. rivularis. A low number of nonparental bands in C. insueta indicates the younger age of this taxon. In contrast to the situation in C. insueta, low variability was observed in the hexaploid C. schulzii, a derivative species of C. insueta. C. schulzii probably originated recently by a single autopolyploidization event. The higher number of non-parental bands in C. schulzii is explained by the changing genetic variability of the parental populations. Evidence for potential gene flow across the ploidy levels is also provided. 
4179699|Six species of the genus Bactrodesmium M. C. Cooke are described in this paper from Czechoslovakia: B. betulicola M.B. Ellis, B. obovatum (Oudemans) M.B. Ellis, B. spilomeum (Berk. et Br.) Mason et Hughes including three new species B. globosum Hol.-Jech., B. pyriforme Hol.-Jech. and B. submoniliforme Hol.-Jech.
4180440|The alpine zones of Ladakh are floristically and geobotanically very interesting. In the past these were poorly known botanically because of the ruggedness and inaccessibility of the area. The varied climatic conditions and habitat types have a main role to play in establishing the vegetation of these zones. A total of 122 taxa were identified from collections made during the summer months (July, August and September) of the year 1976. These areas fall in an altitudinal range of 4000 to 5000 m. Fifteen taxa are reported as new records for this region. Six different habitat types were recognised on the basis of local distribution of these taxa, viz. 1. Rocky and gravelly sites; 2. Alkaline swamps; 3. Silty and clay sites; 4. Stream sites; 5. Meadow and shrub fields and 6. Cultivated field sites. A comprehensive inventory of the flowering plants of this region is given in the paper.
4181549| A revision was undertaken of the high-rank syntaxa of the vegetation occurring in rock fissures, ledges and screes of mainland Greece and Crete. All published phytosociological relevs available were collected and subjected to numerical classification and ordination. Four orders (Androsacetalia vandelii, Onosmetalia frutescentis, Potentilletalia speciosae and Petromaruletalia pinnatae) comprising 8 alliances (one of them new) were distinguished within the Asplenietea trichomanis (rock fissures, clefts, and ledges). The scree vegetation was classified partly within the Thlaspietea rotundifolii (Drypidetalia spinosae with 2 alliances) and partly within the Daphno-Festucetea (Saturejo-Scutellarietalia - a new order, with 2 alliances). Ordination revealed clear differences in floristic composition of the alliances distinguished. The studied chasmophytic vegetation of Greece contains a very high proportion of endemics which serve as diagnostic species of the syntaxa. Further, an analysis of chorological species spectra suggested that the chorological homogeneity of a syntaxon should be considered an important diagnostic feature at high-syntaxon levels. 
4179873|The seeds of Merremia aegyptia are indifferent to light conditions for germination, which becomes 100% in the first 24 hrs. On the contrary, in M. dissecta the highest percentage was found in red light within the first 24 hrs. This difference was lost later on except in far-red. The seedling growth of the two species was least in blue and red lights, respectively. However, the growth of hypocotyl in the former species was faster than the latter.
4181422| Seasonal dynamics of total nonstructural carbohydrates (TNC) and of carbohydrate species (starch, sucrose, glucose, fructose) were followed in rhizomes of Phragmites australis at two sites of the Tebo Biosphere Reserve (Czech Republic): Brann sand pit and Romberk fishpond-western shore, which were classified (according to plant species composition and phosphorus availability) as oligotrophic and hyper-eutrophic, respectively. Phragmites stands at these sites were expanding and retreating, respectively. Rhizomes were sampled within terrestrial parts of the reed stands (at a water depth of about 10 cm). The levels of total non-structural carbohydrates were determined mainly by levels of starch and sucrose, while glucose and fructose were present at comparatively low levels. The most conspicuous differences between the sites were associated with autumnal and March levels of carbohydrates. In March, i.e. at the beginning of vegetative development, TNC and starch levels were lower at the hyper-eutrophic, as compared with the oligotrophic, site. Starch and TNC levels fell from August to September at the hyper-eutrophic, but not at the oligotrophic, site. At the low water depth investigated, the differences between stands in carbohydrate levels do not seem to be large enough to account solely for their different vigour. It is suggested that the effect of water depth needs to be evaluated in more detail. 
4179451| In Sdwestbhmen kommen auf sauren Silikatgesteinen, bereits ausserhalb des Migrations-stromes thermophiler Arten, auf Sdhngen azidophile Trockenrasengesellschaften vor. Diese Gesellschaften wurden als neue Assoziationen beschrieben: Polytricho (pilifero)-Scleranthetum perennis, Cerastio (arvensi)-Agrostetum pusillae und Veronico (vernae)-Poetum bulbosae. Die Bodenbedingungen dieser Assoziationen wurden charakterisiert, ihre syngenetische Bedeutung und Aufgabe bei der Bodenentwicklung definiert. Gleichzeitig wurde die Bodenentwicklungsreihe vom Protoranker ber braunen Ranker, Braunerde-Ranker und Ranker-Braunerde zur oligotrophen Braunerde beschrieben. Das Polytricho-Scleranthetum und das Cerastio-Agrostetum wurden in den neuen Verband Hyperico (perforato)-Scleranthion perennis, das Veronico-Poetum bulbosae in den Verband Veronicion eingereiht. Diese Verbnde wurden in die neugefasste Ordnung Trifolio (arvensi)-Festucetalia ovinae der Klasse Sedo-Scleranthetea eingereiht. /// On the acid crystallic siliceous rocks of the Bohemian Massive in the district of the acidophilous oak forest of the alliance Quercion robori-sessiliflorae, in the territory of the middle part of the Otava river in southwestern Bohemia, the following acidophilous xerophilous grassland communities were described: Polytricho (pilifero)-Scleranthetum perennis on soils of the braun ranker, Carastio (arvensi)-Agrostetum pusillae on soils of the braunerde-ranker and ranker-braunnerde, Veronico (vernae)-Poetum bulbosae on soils of these associations with more or less disturbed surface. These associations are bound to southern slopes at altitudes of about 380-530 m. above sea level. The Polytricho-Scleranthetum differs from the Cerastio-Agrostetum ecologically primarily in the depth of the soil profile (Polytricho-Sceleranthetum ca 10-15 cm., Cerastio-Agrostetum ca. 30-60 cm.). The chemical properties of the soils of both associations are very similar. The soils have a low exchange capacity, a low reserve of exchangeable calcium, magnesium and potassium, and are unsaturated. A higher content of humus and also a higher content of exchangeable calcium occurs in the uppermost layer of the soil profile only. The similarity of the chemical properties of the soil of both associations resulted in little difference in the qualitative floristic composition (especially of the herb layer) of the associations under consideration; they differ mainly in the quantity of each species and the consequent different synmorphology. All the associations described occur in territory which is not reached by the migration-stream of thermophilous species penetrating from central Bohemia up the stream along the Vltava and Otava rivers. Therefore widely distributed species that can be considered only as "xerophilous" predominate in the species lists of these associations; the more thermophilous species are mostly missing. The Polytricho-Scleranthetum and the Cerastio-Agrostetum are stages of the succession series starting from initial association of vascular plants - the Asplenietum septentrionalis occupying the crevices and ledges of siliceous rocks-and continuing through the Polytricho-Scleranthetum and Cerastio-Agrostetum to communities that occupy deep mature soil. This succession is conditioned by the parallel soil development and itself influences the soil development in turn. On crystallic siliceous rocks soil development starts with the protoranker of the Asplenietum septentrionalis and continues with the braun ranker of the Polytricho-Scleranthetum to the braunerde-ranker and further to the ranker-braunerde of the Cerastio-Agrostetum. This soil development would end in the oligotrophic (or mesotrophic) braunerde that represents the climax soil type in these altitudes. To this soil type acidophilous oak forest of the Quercion robori-sessiliflorae would correspond as the climax vegetation. The soil development is seen primarily in the deepening of the soil profile and its morphological differentiation. Changes in the chemical properties of soil are seen in increased exchangeable calcium especially in the upper part of the A-horizon. The succession series described can be considered as primary only in its first stages-Asplenietum septentrionalis and Polytricho-Scleranthetum. The Cerastio-Agrostetum is without doubt a secondary plant community protected against the invasion of woods by man's activity. The Veronico-Poetum can be considered even as a tertiary plant community replacing the Polytricho-Scleranthetum and the secondary Cerastio-Agrostetum on soils with  disturbed surface as the initial stage of a subseries. In deciding the position of the associations described in the phytocenological system the existing systems of different authors were discussed, including on the one hand plant communities of shallow soils in solid rocks and on the other hand plant communities of consolidated or even wind-blown sands. For each plant community unit the validity of its publication was verified and its correct name was established. For classification of the Polytricho-Sceranthetum and the Cerastio-Agrostetum a new alliance -the Hyperico (perforato)-Scleranthion perennis was proprosed. The Veronico-Poetum bulbosae was classified in the alliance Veronicion. Both these alliances were arranged in a new order-the Trifolio (arvensi)-Festucetalia ovinae of the class Sedo-Scleranthetea. A new classification within the Sedo-Scleranthetea was proposed. 
4181201|Grasslands were phytosociologically studied in the lowlands of North Korea. They are represented mainly by lawns in parks and recreation centres. Two new plant communities were distinguished: the association Digitario ciliaris-Zoysietum japonicae with many species of the C
4180799| The vertical structure of pioneer and stabilized mediterranean sand vegetation at Doana National Park has been compared using a non destructive method based on organ frequency analysis. Vertical distribution of organ frequencies and light intensity through the canopy, leaf chlorophyll content, leaf area index, organ biomass, are also discussed for Artemisia campestris subsp. maritima, Scrophularia frutescens, Halimium halimifolium, and Cistus salvifolius. 
4180843| In some collections from the Neotropics ten species of the foliicolous lichen genus Mazosia Mass. (Opegraphaceae) were found. Two of these are described as new taxa: Mazosia pilosa sp. n. and Mazosia pseudobambusae sp. n. A key to all neotropical species is presented and new localities for all of them are reported. /// Die Gattung Mazosia (Opegraphaceae) wurde eingehend in der Monographie von Santesson (1952) taxonomisch bearbeitet. Mit deren Hilfe konnten die Verfasser die relativ reichen epiphyllen Flechtensammlungen bestimmen, die grsstenteils vom jngeren Autor (K. K.) im tropischen Amerika selbst gesammelt, teilweise auch von mehreren Fachkollegen den Autoren zur Verfgung gestellt worden sind. Es konnten viele neue Fundorte von schon frher bekannten Arten festgestellt werden, die hier als Ergnzung zu den Verbreitungsangaben von Santessons Monographie mitgeteilt werden. Im vorliegenden Material wurden auch zwei Arten gefunden, die sich mit keiner der bisher bekannten identifizieren liessen. Sie sind als neue Arten beschrieben: Mazosia pilosa Kalb et Vzda sp. n., mit fr die Gattung ungewhnlichem, haarborstigem Lager und Mazosia pseudobambusae Kalb et Vzda sp. n., die sich durch farblosen Inhalt der Lagerwarzen von der nahe verwandten M. bambusae unterscheidet. Schliesslich wird ein Bestimmungsschlssel aller zehn bislang aus der Neotropis bekannten Mazosia-Arten vorgelegt. 
4179482| Im ersten Teil dieser Arbeit werden die Studienergebnisse ber die Verbreitung einzelner Arten der Gattung Bidens aus den Jahren 1962-1965 angefhrt. Im zweiten Teil werden die Wege sowie die Art und Weise veranschaulicht, wie sich die adventiven Arten der Gattung Bidens in Mitteleuropa verbreiteten. /// In the years 1962-1966 the author carried out research on the distribution of species of Bidens in Czechoslovakian streams and ponds. Bidens frondosus and Bidens radiatus were mapped throughout the country; Bidens cernuus only in Slovakia, because it has a very wide distribution in lowlands and in the submontane belt all over Bohemia and Moravia; Bidens tripartitus was not mapped at all for the same reason. The distribution of Bidens radiatus in Bohemia and Moravia is correlated with the phytogeographical districts. Most of the localities belong to the oligotrophic and mesotrophic substrata of Hercynicum. The centre of the area in the Hercynicum are the ponds of Tebo and Budjovice, as it is a species mainly of stagnant waters. Most of the Pannonicum localities are in Subpannonic districts; only one locality belongs to the Eupannonicum: in Mlnsk pond in southern Moravia. The species is lacking in Slovakia. Bidens frondosus probably started to spread in Czechoslovakia at the beginning of this century. In many districts of Bohemia it is now a common species. It penetrated to Slovakia later and it is still not widespread. Bidens cernuus is relatively common in lowlands and the submontane belt in Bohemia and Moravia; the optimum is to be found in springs. It is lacking in some lower parts of the Slovakien streams, probably due to hydrological conditions (high water in summer, the form of the river bed etc.). This problem should be followed up. Bidens connatus at present occurs in Czechoslovakia in one locality only-Karvin in Silesia (the river Stonvka); it has not been previously indicated in Czechoslovakia in other localities. Ephemeric occurrence of this species is known not only in secondary localities, but also in autochtonic occurrence. Simultaneously with the distribution some ecological problems of the species were studied. The reason why the adventitious species Bidens frondosus has proved stronger than Bidens tripartitus was established. Bidens frondosus germinates 7-10 days earlier than Bidens tripartitus. While Bidens tripartitus has only developed cotyledons, the second species has already 2 pairs of normal leaves. This advantage seems to be the main reason why Bidens frondosus prevailed over the indigenous species. When Bidens pilosus was cultivated in our experimental garden at Prhonice in the years 1963, 1964 and 1966, it has been found that germination takes place already in autumn; this leads to the extermination of young plants by frost, as they are not hardy. This species cannot be easily naturalized under the climatic conditions of Central Europe. All the species studied need places with relatively high amount of water in the soil at the germination time. Bidens radiatus and Bidens cernuus can only grow under terrestrical conditions for a short time. Bidens frondosus B. connatus and B. tripartitus grow on dry soil and fruit very well there in the later development phases. If we remember that Bidens frondosus was found by Krocker in 1777 on the river Odra (Oder) at Wrocaw, and that there existed several old canals connecting the river Odra and Labe (Elbe) with the river Wisa (Vistula), we can conclude that these three rivers need not be the isolated ways the adventitious species spread. The history of the spreading of adventitious species of the genus Bidens in Central Europe has three stages. In the first the species came to Europe, probably by synagestochory. In the second they spread mainly by nautohydrochory down streams and by epizoochory (endozoochory or synagestochory) up streams. In the third stage the species started to spread by means of epizoochory, endozoochory and synagestochory beyond the stream banks. 
4181464|Intraspecific variation of four agamospecies of Hieracium sect. Alpina was studied using RAPD and isozyme techniques. No variation in either multiprimer RAPD or multi-enzyme phenotypes was observed within H. holosericeum, suggesting that this widespread species consists of only a single genotype. A low level of within-population isozyme variation was seen in H. tenuifrons and H. calenduliflorum, the origin of which appears to be consistent with somatic mutation. Most isozyme and all RAPD variation in these two species was partitioned between populations. A strong correlation with geography suggests that its cause may be due to polytopic (=polyphyletic?) origin or perhaps to mutation and dispersal. The most variable species was H. alpinum, in which isozyme variation occurred mostly within populations rather than between them, suggesting occasional sexual events or that the parents of H. alpinum were heterozygous. RAPD variation in this species, in contrast, was partitioned between Scottish and Swiss populations, suggesting the existence of geographical races.
4179803| Die fnfte Studie aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) ist den Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. gewidmet, die in Afrika und auf den benachbarten Inseln (Makaronesien, Kerguelen, Marion-I. u. a.) vorkommen. Im genannten Gebiet wurden 16 Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. festgestellt. Die Arten J. (P.) balfourii sp. nova, J. (P.) dusenii (Steph.) Steph., J. (P.) onraedtii sp. nova, J. (P.) renauldii Steph., J. (S.) abyssinica Nees, J. (S.) perloi (Gola) Va, J. (S.) borgenii Gott., J. (S.) coniflora Schiffn. und J. (S.) mildbraedii Steph. sind taxonomisch eingehend bearbeitet, die verbliebenen 7 Arten mit dem Verbreitungszentrum in anderen Gebieten (J. atrovirens Dum., J. leiantha Grolle und J. pumila With.) wurden bereits in frheren Studien oder werden in weiteren bearbeitet (J. gracillima Sm., J. hyalina Lyell, J. obovata Nees und J. sphaerocarpa Hook.). Die anderen aus dem Gebiet von Afrika bekannten Arten sind mit den oben erwhnten synonymisiert oder zu anderen Gattungen gestellt. Die Arten J. (P.) balfourii sp. nova und J. (P.) onraedtii sp. nova wurden neu beschrieben, die Neukombination Lophozia tristaniana (S. Arnell) comb. nova wurde vorgeschlagen. /// This fifth study of the Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys to the African species of Jungermannia L. emend. Dum., based on sterile and fertile plants. 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, type, material examined and exsiccata of eight African species of the subgenera Plectocolea and Solenostoma. There are also notes on the ecology, geographical distribution, variability, taxonomy and relationships of these taxa. 3. A list of species belonging to other genera. Taxonomically, J. (P.) balfourii Va, J. (P.) dusenii (Steph.) Steph., J. (P.) onraedtii Va, J. (P.) renauldii Steph., J. (S.) abyssinica Nees, J. (S.) perloi (Gola) Va, J. (S.) borgenii Gott., J. (S.) coniflora Schiffn. and J. (S.) mildbraedii Steph. are shown to be good species. Other taxa proved to be habitat modifications or are referred to the synonymy. 
4180087| Der Beitrag bringt Resultate syntaxonomisch-synkologischer Forschungen planarer Erlen-Eschenwlder (Pruno-Fraxinetum Oberd. 1953), die Gleybden mit langsam bewegtem Grundwasser bestocken. Im westlichen Teil der Tschechoslowakei wurden drei Subassoziationen unterschieden: 1. Pruno-Fraxinetum filipenduletosum Mik. 1963 - der feuchteste Flgel der Assoziation auf Nassgley mit hochanstehendem Grundwasser, 2. Pruno-Fraxinetum typicum Oberd. 1957 - die vorherrschende Ausbildung der Assoziation auf von Zeit zu Zeit oberflchlich schwach abtrocknendem Braunerde- oder typischem Gley, 3. Pruno-Fraxinetum listeretosum Mik. 1963 auf karbonathaltigen Gleybden im Kontakt mit Eichen-Hainbuchenwldern. /// This paper includes the results of phytocoenological and ecological research into Pruno-Fraxinetum Oberdorfer 1953 in the Czech Lands. This association represents lowland alder-ash alluvial forest, occuring on gley soils with slowly moving groundwater. In the area studied three subassociations were distinguished: 1. Pruno-Fraxinetum filipenduletosum Mikyka 1963 (differential species: Filipendula ulmaria, Carex acutiformis, Caltha palustris ssp. palustris, Iris pseudacorus, Lycopus europaeus, Ribes nigrum, Carex elongata, C. rostrata, Scutellaria galericulata, Lythrum salicaria bzw. Calliergon cordifolium and Climacium dendroides) - the most hygrophilous form of the association on nassgleys (rarely typical gleys) with high groundwater. The yearly flooded soils are wet to temporarily water-logged, in the dry season moist. 2. Pruno-Fraxinetum typicum Oberdorfer 1957 (lacking differential species) - the most distributed form of the association occuring on braunerde-gleys or typical gleys on the periphery of large alluvial plains, with relatively deep groundwater, not yet inondated. In sommer the soils become dry a little on the surface. 3. Pruno-Fraxinetum listeretosum Mikyka 1963 (differential species: Listera ovata, Arum maculatum, Acer pseudoplatanus, localy also Cornus sanguinea, Daphne mezereum event. Tilia platyphyllos, Galium schultesii, Isopyrum thalictroides, Viola mirabilis) - a community occuring on gley soils (typical, braunerde- or anmoor-gleys) in contact with oak-hornbeam forests. The geographical distribution and an economic evaluation of Pruno-Fraxinetum is discussed and a brief comparison is made with analogous Middle European alluvial forests. 
4179450| Die azidophilen Ginster-Traubeneichenwlder, die als Dauerstadien der Sukzession auf Quarziten im Tribe-Gebirge in der Westslowakei verbreitet sind, gehren systematisch zur Assoziation Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae Zlyomi, Jakucs, Fekete in Zlyomi et Jakucs 1957. Diese Assoziation zerfllt in zwei Subassoziationen, die sich durch phytoznologische Zusammensetzung und durch verschiedene kologie interscheiden: Subass. quercetosum und Subass. fagetosum. Die beschriebene Assoziation ist auf flachgrndigen, stark saueren Bden verbreitet, die bodentypologisch zu oligotrophen Rankern oder Ranker-Braunerden gehren. /// The paper summarizes the results of phytocoenological and ecological studies of acidophilous oak forests on quarzites in the Tribe Mountains in western Slovakia. As regards the phytocoenological system, the oak forests described belong to the association Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae Zlyomi, jakucs, Fekete in Zlyomi et Jakucs 1957. They are distributed on shallow, strongly acid soils poor in nutrients that typologically may be classified in most cases as the grey rankers or ranker brown soils. On the investigated territory the above mentioned association occurs in two subassociations: the drier - quercetosum and the moister - fagetosum, differing in their phytocoenological composition and different ecology of habitat, i.e. by distribution at different altitudes and exposures. In comparison with the stands of Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae described in Hungary, our association represents a "western edge variant" of this association which is characterized by a considerable reduction of xerophilous and thermophilous species of the Quercion pubescenti-petrae alliance and viceversa, by the presence of species of subatlantic tendencies. 
4180819|A total of 112 species in 18 genera in the Portulacaceae were investigated anatomically for the presence or absence of the chlorenchymatous bundle sheath cells around the vascular bundles: C4 or Kranz anatomy. Twenty species in only one genus, Portulaca L. of all the taxa investigated possesses the C4 or Kranz anatomy. All others have the C3 anatomy.
4179472| The chromosome number of A. thaliana from three localities in Central Bohemia was found to be 2n = 10. All the chromosomes (length 1,5-2,6 m) belong to the atelocentric type, four pairs (m) having the centromere in the median and one pair (sm) in the submedian region. In connection with the discussion on the origin of H. suecica the author presents the following preliminary results: a) the failure to cross the tetraploid Cardaminopsis arenosa (L.) Hayek with A. thaliana; b) the successful crossing of the diploid C. petraea (L.) Hiit. with A. thaliana; c) the discovery of a diploid population of C. arenosa (2n = 16) in the Tatra Mts. (Czechoslovakia). 
4179609| Caricetum gracilis Almquist 1929 ist eine Assoziation mit ausgedehnter eurosibirischer Verbreitung, es bewahrt sich jedoch in seinem ganzen Areal eine mehr oder weniger konstante znotische Zusammensetzung, die durch das Grundmerkmal - die Anwesenheit von Carex gracilis als Dominante (Kondominante) und difikator, bedingt ist. Als ausschlaggebender Faktor fr die Entstehung der Gesellschaft kommt der Wasserhaushalt mit charakteristischer Abwechslung der berschwemmungen und Austrocknungen zur Geltung. Die geographischen, klimatischen und bodenkologischen Unterschiede der Standorte ermglichen eine weitere Gliederung der Assoziation in Caricetum gracilis Subass. typicum mit grsstem Verbreitungsgebiet, die in drei Varianten zerfllt, weiter in Caricetum gracilis comaretosum, dessen Areal an nrdliche Teile Mittel- und Osteuropas gebunden ist und das in zwei Varianten zerfllt, und schliesslich in Caricetum gracilis naumburgietosum, das vor allem an das Herzynische Gebiet und den Nordrand der Karpaten gebunden ist. /// In the present paper a survey of existing knowledge of the association Caricetum gracilis Almquist 1929 (= Caricetum gracilis Graebner et Hueck 1931) is given and an evaluation based upon the author's investigation of this association carried out. From studies of Caricetum gracilis throughout Europe it is evident that the prevalent majority of stands of this association represent a substitute community of natural forest communities of the alliance Alnion glutinosae or Alno-Padion; it occurs most frequently and best developed in the inundated parts of broader valleys. Sporadically only, and over a small area, Caricetum gracilis represents the primary community of the filling-in series of stagnant or very sluggish waters. The decisive factor for the rise and perseverance of Caricetum gracilis is the rhythm of the water regime of the habitat, characterized by flood alteration (especially in the springtime) and by at least temporary or longer-term sinking of water under the soil surface during the second half of the vegetation season. If the water regime (and therefore also that of the air) is convenient, the rise of the association is further dependent upon the nutritive conditions of the soil (the enrichement of soil through turbid flood water plays an important role here). The soil type is mostly anmoor (mainly the subtype warp anmoor in the northern part of the distribution area also the subtype peat anmoor). The community only occurs on other soil types in limiting cases - in the initial stages in the filling-in series (fen) or after drainage (gley). The essential feature of the association is the function of Carex gracilis (only one characteristic species) not only as dominant or condominant, but also as the building-up species (edificator), by which the other characters of the cenosis are to a considerable degree determined. Furthermore, in the building-up the community it is mainly the species of superior units or of other parallel units of the class Phragmiti-Magnocaricetea which take part; frequently species of units belonging to the classes Molinio-Arrhenatheretea and Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae and to the alliance Agropyro-Rumicion crispi also take part. The participation of mosses is variable and for the existence of association is not very significant. Monospecific stands of Carex gracilis alone (although this sedge may be very vital in them) are not a typical form of the community and usually represent only a temporary phase. Variable dynamics, regarding both the quantitative and often also the qualitative composition of the community are indeed characteristic of the association and result from its substantial dependence on the changeable conditions of the habitat. On the other hand, however, the community is very resistant against disturbing interferences (temporary changes of habitat); it bears unfavourable conditions for years (though in changed phases) without being destroyed. The association is distributed mainly in the temperate zone of Central and Eastern Europe (perhaps in Siberia, too). Its distribution maximum as well as the most varied differentiation are to be found in the northern part of Central Europe and probably also in the forest zone of Eastern Europe. In the more southern, i.e. more arid regions it is bound more strictly to those parts of larger river valleys which are flooded for long periods. When the syntaxonomical position of this association and its sub-units was dealt with, only those characters were taken into consideration as classification criteria, which are most essential at the respective level. When defining the association on the basis of the building-up position of Carex gracilis, the author started from the assumption that the position of Carex gracilis as edificator is a constant character by which the variability of the cenosis is at the same time limited to a high degree. The differences in the participation of species belonging to various specific groups (by which mainly the deviations of the water and nutrition regime as well as of the climatic and geographic conditions are indicated) make it possible to distinguish several sub-units. The fundamental subassociation - obviously widespread all over the distribution area of the association - is subass. typicum Uhlig 1938 em. Blakov, without special differential species. This subassociation is mainly bound to mineral soils of inundated sites. Within the scope of the subassociation three variants have been distinguished by the author: var. typicum, which is characterized by the lowest number of species and occurs in the moistest sites; var. with Festuca pratensis, which is characterized by a group of differential species belonging to units of the class Molinio-Arrhenatheretea and is bound to more drying-up habitats; and var. with Gratiola officinalis, which represents a Pannonian-Illyrian geographical race and differs - besides the differential species which are all very little constant - also by a slightly shifted ratio of species belonging to individual cenotic groups. The subass. comaretosum Passarge 1955 possesses as differential species mainly the characteristic and differential species of the alliance Magnocaricion (= Caricion rostratae Bal-Tul. 1962). Conspicuous is also the higher total share of species belonging to the units of the class Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae. The subassociation divides into var. comaretosum (= typicum), without any differential species, and into var. with Ranunculus repens, which to a certain degree bears resemblance to subass. typicum. A new subass. naumburgietosum has been described. The differential species group of which resembles that of subass. comaretosum, but in the floristic respect it differs quantitatively - by a different ratio of differential species as well as by a different ratio of participation of species belonging to individual cenotic groups. In denominating the units priority rules have been observed, however, some names used in the literature are synonyms, or the units designated by them have been included in units denominated before. At the end of this paper the economic evaluation of the stands of the Caricetum gracilis has been carried out and ways of most productive exploitation and amelioration have been suggested. 
4179790| Die vierte Studie aus der Serie vorbereiteter Studien ber die Subfam. Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) enthlt die allgemeine Charakteristik (Synonymik, Beschreibung, Sektionsschlssel und kurze Charakteristik der Sektionen) des Subg. Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. und des Subg. Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. Beide Subgenera sind artenreich; die Arten werden in folgenden Studien aus rein praktischen Grnden nach den geographischen Gebieten bearbeitet. Diese Studie ist den sd- und mittelamerikanischen Arten gewidmet; im genannten Gebiet wurden 4 Arten des Subg. Plectocolea und 4 Arten des Subg. Solenostoma festgestellt. Die Arten J. (S.) amoena Lindenb. et Gott., J. (P.) callithrix Lindenb. et Gott., J. (S.) crassula Nees et Mont., J. (P.) decolor Schiffn. und J. (S.) linguifolia Gott. sind taxonomisch eingehend bearbeitet; die verbliebenen 3 Arten mit dem Verbreitungszentrum in anderen Gebieten sollen in den nchsten Studien bearbeitet werden. Die anderen aus dem Gebiet von Sd- und Mittelamerika angegebenen Arten wurden mit den obenerwhnten Arten synonymisiert oder zu anderen Gattungen gestellt. Zwei neue Kombinationen wurden vorgeschlagen, u. zw. Kymatocalyx cubensis (Gott.) Va comb. nova und Gongylanthus limbatus (Herz.) Grolle et Va comb. nova; Jungermannia Subg. Solenostoma Sect. Luridopsis Va sect. nova wurde beschrieben. /// This fourth study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Synonymy, description, keys to section and brief notes on the sections of the subgenera Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. and Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. of the genus Jungermannia. 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, type and exsiccata of five Central and South American species of the subgenera Plectocolea and Solenostoma. There are also notes on ecology, geographical distribution, taxonomy, variability and relationships of these taxa. 3. A list of species belonging to other genera. Taxonomically J. (P.) decolor Schiffn., J. (P.) callithrix Lindenb. et Gott., J. (S.) amoena Lindenb. et Gott., J. (S.) crassula Nees et Mont. and J. (S.) linguifolia Gott. are treated as good species. Many other taxa are considered to be habitat modifications. The keys include all South and Central American species. 
4181002|Aerial photography with a balloon-suspended camera is a suitable tool for surveying aquatic vegetation and for measuring water movements. Examples from the lake Lunzer Untersee (Austria) are given.
4179924|In this paper the Theory of Biological Equilibrium (TBE), as the theoretical basis of the Canonical Hypothesis, is used to compute a set of theoretical parameters of natural ecosystems. These parameters are the individuals: species (I/S); the commonness: rarity (C/U) ratio, as well as the expected density
4181247|The method and preliminary results of a simple morphoanatomical survey combined with field studies of the populations as some species of Vellozia from Brazil are presented and briefly discussed.
4180367|The following bioclimatological characteristics were measured on differently aged successional stages of abandoned fields: temperature on soil surface under snow layer, and depth of frozen soil in period of culminating frosts, daily course of temperature in top soil layer; maximum temperature in top soil layer during first half of June. Results are compared with general assumptions about the development of abiotic factors during succession and discussed from the point of view of the ecological theory of stability.
4181305| This study presents results of a three and a half year experiment in a calcareous grassland on the Baltic island of land, south-eastern Sweden. Environmental conditions, viz. nutrient regime, water availability, light conditions and grazing pressure were changed in a randomised experimental design with ten different combinations of these factors, including a control. Weather conditions during the study period fluctuated considerably. Only the combination of reduced light and increased soil nutrient availability decreased species richness significantly, presumably by inducing asymmetric competition for light by competitively strong species. Physical space also became less available for weaker competitors. In cases where only nutrients or only water were supplied in sufficient amounts, competitive exclusion was inhibited by either low nutrient or low water availability. Under conditions which combined high levels of nutrient and water supply with regular disturbance (i.e. simulated grazing) high species richness was maintained. Although there was a significant negative correlation between species richness and amount of above-ground biomass, the number of species was not significantly reduced in the treatment which combined fertilisation and irrigation. One reason for this may be that the heterogeneous light regime in this treatment still allowed species persistence and coexistence. 
4181271| We present a literature survey of studies using molecular markers to investigate genet diversity and structure in clonal plants. The data from 40 studies comprised 45 species of which only two were studied by DNA methods, the rest by isozyme markers. Less than one third of the studies provided information about the spatial distribution of individual genets within populations, and only 12.5% of the studies used mapping of all ramets within plots or part of the population in combination with identification of multilocus genotypes. We also present two case studies. In Glechoma hederacea morphological criteria were used to select clones. Multi-samples of ramets within these "clones" turned out to be variable using isozymes indicating that these "clones" in most cases consisted of several genets. One individual multilocus genotype covered tens of square metres. In Hylocomium splendens samples from 10  10 cm plots usually consisted of a mixture of multilocus genotypes, but occasionally the whole plot consisted of one genet. 
4180562|203 species of Lycopodium are reclassified to Huperzia and new nomenclatural combinations are proposed for them. Huperzia Bernh. 1801 is accepted in a broad circumscription, i.e. including Phlegmariurus (Herter) Holub 1964. New nomenclatural combinations are also proposed for 19 species of Lycopodium transferred to the following generic segregates: Diphasium (5), Lycopodiella (1), Palhinhaea (11) and Pseudolycopodiella (2).
4180295| The chorology and ecology of Sisymbrium volgense Bieb. ex E. Fourn. in Czechoslovakia is reviewed. There are also brief data on the history of the spread and ecology in other countries. A list of localities in Czechoslovakia and a distribution map is provided. /// Sisymbrium volgense Bieb. ex E. Fourn. wurde zum erstenmal in der Tschechoslowakei im Jahre 1960 in Pardubice festgestellt. Im J. 1980 waren in unserem Gebiet schon 51 Lokalitten in der planaren und kollinen (-submontanen) Stufe bekannt (Fig. 2) Die Art kommt besonders auf Eisenbahnhfen (28 Lokalitten) auf freier Strecke (6 Lokalitten) und bei Getreidemhlen, Getreidelagern und Getreideumladepltzen (6 lokalitten) vor; auf einer bis vier Lokalitten ist sie aus Flusshfen, stdtischen Strassen, Schuttpltzen und einem Teichufer bei der Entenfarm bekannt. Fast alle Lokalitten in der Tschechoslowakei verdanken ihren Ursprung der Einschleppung von Diasporen mit sowjetischem Konsumweizen (cf. Fig. 1). Ausnahmsweise wurde S. volgense wahrscheinlich mit Futtergetreide (UdSSR) oder mit der Saatgut (UdSSR) eingeschleppt. S. volgense ist bei uns eine charakteristische Art des Ostweges der Adventiven. Fast auf allen Lokalitten ist sie ausdauernd und breitet sich weiter aus, u. zw. nicht nur vegetativ, sondern auch generativ, besonders in wrmeren Gebieten. Die Art kommt bei uns bisher nur als Epoekophyt vor. Sie wurde Dank ihrer biologischen Eingeschaften unter Quarantnunkruter eingereiht. Zum Vergleich werden auch kurze Angaben ber die Chorologie und kologie der S. volgense im Ausland beigeschlossen. Die Mehrheit der Lokalitten im Gebiet des sekundren Areals verdankt ihren Ursprung vor allem der Einschleppung der Diaporen mit eingefhrten sowjetischen Getreide. Ausser der UdSSR, wo die Art in Steppen im Sdosten des europischen Teiles einheimsich ist und wo sie in Europa auch ausser dem Gebiet ihres ursprnglichen Areals verbreitet ist, wurde sie vom J. 1880 in 12 europischen Lnderen verzeichnet. Ausser Europa ist sie bisher nur aus dem Fernen Osten der UdSSR bekannt. Nach Angaben aus den europischen Lndern verhlt sie sich expansiver in relativ kontinentaleren Lndern, wie z.B. in der Tschechoslowakei (51 Lokalitten), Polen (16 Lokalitten), Deutschland (eine grssere Anzahl Lokalitten), Finnland (22 Lokalitten), In westlicher Richtung ist sie in der Regel weniger vital mit einem beschrnkten Vorkommen nur auf einer oder einigen Lokalitten. In Zukunft kann man eine weitere Ausbreitung des sekundren Areals dieser relativ expansiven Art erwarten. 
4179448| Diese Studie behandelt die in der Phytogeographie allgemein bentzten Termini vom Gesichtspunkte ihrer Begrenzung und Vereinheitlichung. Jeder Terminus wird definiert, seine lateinische Bezeichnung, sowie auch Beispiele und in manchen Fllen auch Zeichnungen und Karten wurden beigefgt. In der Studie wird die Terminologie der horizontalen und vertikalen Einteilung der Erdoberflche, weiter die Terminologie verschiedener Typen von Arealen, Disjunktionen, Elementen, Endemiten, Relikten, Dealpinen, Vikarianten, synanthropischen Pflanzen, usw. angefhrt. /// The authors collected the terms of general phytogeography dispersed in the literature, evaluated them and in the present study they suggest proper terms to be used. Terms which were lacking have been created. Thus as far as the main results are concerned several items can be given: A new term "septentrional zone" is suggested for the temperate zone of the northern hemisphere; the term "boreal" which has been used up to now will be kept to designate a floristic region which is only a part of this zone. A double system for vertical division is used, i. e. a general one of which the vegetation-belt is the basic unit and a special one (elaborated here for the region of SSR) in which the basic unit is the vegetation-grade. The term "element" is used only in composite terms such as floristic element and region-element; instead of the term "genetic element" the term "ortant" and instead of the term "migrations-element" the term "migrant" are suggested; further the term "area-type" is suggested instead of the terms "geographic element", "component" and partially "geoelement". The authors differentiate strictly between the terms "area-type" and "floristic element"; in determining the area-type, attention must be paid to the whole distribution of the plants, the area-type can be determined for all taxa. The floristic element, however, shows a narrow relation of the distribution of the taxon to a certain natural floristic region and cannot be determined for all taxa. The floristic element can be further divided into the genuine floristi element, subelement, penetrant and conelement. The term "endemic" is suggested only for taxa of autochthonous origin, not for taxa with a limited distribution (area), where the term "microarealophyte" showed be used. With regard to this basic attribute of the endemic it is necessary to differentiate strictly between endemics and relics. For regions where relics have survived the following two terms are used: refugium and residuum, according to whether the region did or did not belong to the former area of the taxon examined. As to the type of relations of the taxa in the course of their migration regarding a certain region the following terms are suggested: restant, superstant, fugant, residuant, transient, demigrant, remigrant, reservant and immigrant. The term "praealpine" is not used by the authors of the present study in view of the different use of this term by former authors. The term "perialpine" is used instead of it for its original meaning. For the designation of taxa which extend from the lower regions of their original distribution to higher regions, the term "penalpine" has been suggested. For the classification of synanthropic plants a system is suggested, which endeavours to take into the consideration the basic types of relation of the distribution of the plants to human activity. 
4181104|A new monotypic genus Burnsbaloghia Szlachetko - based on the species Spiranthes diaphana Lindl. - originating from the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described. Four illustrations are provided.
4179682|From the Caspian coastal region of Iran a new taxon, Sparganium erectum L. subsp. mazanderanicum Ponert, is described and illustrated. This new subspecies in some of its characters is near to Sparganium erectum L. subsp. microcarpum (Neumann) Domin (with its east distribution trend); in other characters it is near to Sparganium erectum L. subsp. neglectum (Beeby) Schinz et Thell. (with ist south distribution trend). A comparative table of diacritical characters of these three subspecies is appended.
4180816|The present review gives an account of the applicability of mathematical modelling in ecological succession studies. The ability of particular model types to solve problems of both theory and management is discussed. The Markovian models are found to be useful for short term predictions, but of very limited value for theoretical considerations. Finally, the predictability of successional pathways is discussed. It is argued that the less we understand about processes in vegetation dynamics, the more we will see the course of succession as random and unpredictable.
4181354|It has been suggested that variation in the proportion of species in guilds (= guild proportionality) indicates community structuring by guilds in biotic communities. This hypothesis was tested on a subthermophilous grassland and a mesotrophic meadow at a scale of
4181541|The main objective of the present study was to attempt to assign different vegetation types in South Sweden to the Braun-Blanquet system of syntaxa. The alliance was chosen as the most appropriate phytosociological unit for this purpose. Coniferous forests represent the zonal vegetation in large parts of South Sweden: spruce forests on mesic to moist sites and pine forests on dry, often strongly oligotrophic sites can be assigned to the Piceion excelsae and Dicrano-Pinion respectively. In addition, various types of azonal vegetation (e.g., mires, springs, swamps and salt-marshes) subjected to some form of extreme environmental factor can be placed in alliances described from Central Europe. In contrast, some southern vegetation types in Sweden are difficult to assign, partly due to a lack of character species, as in the case of deciduous hardwood forests. In other cases, species of southern syntaxa are still frequent, for example in dry basiphilous grasslands and sun-exposed forest edges, but the syntaxonomical difficulties arise from an intermixture of diagnostic species of complementary alliances. This might be explained by the floristic and climatic conditions in South Sweden which deviate considerably from those in e.g. Germany, a feature supported by the communities' indicator figures for temperature and continentality. This refers particularly to the combination of rather low average temperatures and, except in the west, a strong thermal or hygric continentality.
4179608|In this paper the syntaxonomy and ecology of the following plant communities is discussed: Montio-Cardaminetalia: Montion: Philonoto-Saxifragetum stellaris; Koenigio-Microjuncion: Equiseto palustris-Sedetum villosi, Koenigio-Agrostetum stoloniferae; Litorelletalia: Subularion aquaticae: Subulario-Ranunculetum reptantis; Isoetion lacustris: Ranunculo-Isoetetum lacustris.
4179670| Einer bersicht der Naturverhltmisse folgt eine kurzgefasste Charakteristik der Vegetation nach der floristisch-soziologischen Methode (Braun-Blanquet-Schule). Die folgenden Einheiten wurden analysiert: Gesellschaften des Potamion eurosibiricum, Scirpo-Phragmitetum, Caricetum rostratae, Caricetum gracilis, Caricetum fuscae, Caricetum dioicae, Carici-Festucetum rubrae ass. nova prov., Trifolio-Festucetum rubrae, Nardo-Festucetum capillatae, Nardo-Juncetum squarrosi und andere Nardetalia-Weiden, Calluno-Antennarietum und andere Calluno-Ulicetea-Gesellschaften, Sphagnetum magellanici, Pino rotundatae-Sphagnetum, Vaccinio uliginosi-Pinetum, Calamagrosti villosae-Piceetum, weiter ein montaner Kiefern-Birkenbruch, sekundre Verlandungsstadien, Fichtenforste auf Lagen von Heidelbeer-Buchenwldern (Luzulo-Fagion), Fichtenforste auf Lagen von krautreichen Buchen- und Ahornwldern (Eu-Fagion und Acerion pseudoplatani), Fichtenforste auf Lagen azidophiler montaner Buchenwlder (Verticillato-Fagetum), Ackerunkrautgesellschaften der Plner- und der Silikatbden. Alle Assoziationen (ausgenommen der fragmentarisch entwickelten) sind durch Aufnahmetabellen belegt. Die Verbreitung der angefhrten Gesellschaften ist auf der Karte der realen Vegetation dargestellt. /// The plant cover of a small territory in the central part of the Bohemian-Moravian Highlands (see Fig. 1) is described in this paper. The most important data on topographical and geological conditions are to be seen in Fig. 2 and 3, on climate in Tab. 1. The investigated territory belongs, from the phytogeographical point of view, to the Hercynicum (Eu-Hercynicum), to the district of "drsk vrchy". Subatlantic-montane species such as Juncus squarrosus and Festuca tenuifolia are characteristic, besides submontane forest species, peat-bog species and some relic blanket-bog species (Carex chordorrhiza, Scorpidium scorpioides, Paludella squarrosa, Meesia triquetra). The moderate xerothermic species only seldom penetrate on chalky soils up to the centrum of the territory. The vegetation is noted for many communities, however poor in species. The floating-leaved communities are developed only in fragments, although ponds cover a great area in the investigated territory (ponds used as swimming pools, unfavorable climatic conditions). No associations could be described here. The reed and tall sedge communities occupy only the sublittoral zone of the ponds. The reed swamps were classified as Scirpo-Phragmitetum W. Koch 1926, the tall sedge communities were divided into Caricetum rostratae Rbel 1912 and the Caricetum gracilis Almquist 1929 (see Tab. 3). The secondary stages of the ancient pools (rising after peat digging) and drainage channels mostly represent a mosaic of small segments. They are formed by mono-species stands or by stands extremely poor in species. The most important dominants of these stages are: Sphagnum cuspidatum, S. recurvum, Eriophorum vaginatum, Carex rostrata, C. lasiocarpa, Eriophorum angustifolium and chamaephytes. Peat-bog meadows of the alliance Caricion canescenti-fuscae Nordhagen 1936 are represented by Caricetum fuscae Br.-Bl. 1915 (Tab. 4) and Caricetum dioicae Klika et marda 1944 (Tab. 4). They are mostly of secondary origin. The semicultivated meadows formed by amelioration of peat-bog meadows were described as Carici-Festucetum rubrae ass. nova prov. (see Tab. 5). Its systematical position is not clear. The most frequent cultivated meadow of the mineral soils was identified with Trifolio-Festucetum rubrae Oberd. 1957 (alliance Arrhenatherion elatioris [Br.-Bl. 1925] W. Koch 1926). Although this association has not been hitherto mentioned from Czechoslovakia, it belongs to the widely distributed communities of the submontane zone, above all in the region of Hercynicum. The pastures are represented by two clearly cut associations (Nardo-Festucetum capillatae Klika et marda 1944 and Nardo-Juncetum squarrosi [Nordhagen 1920] Bker 1942, see Tab. 7) and as well by an insufficiently known group fo the Hygro- up to Xeronardeta. The dwarf shrub heats grow above all on the drained and deforested parts of the peat-bogs, but also on rough mineral soils (see Tab. 8). Dwarf scrub heats of mineral soils were classed with the Calluno-Antennarietum Tx. 1937, those on peat soils are noted for stages (the terminal stage of the secondary regeneration of peat-bog, degradation stage after drainage and deforestation), because there are no characteristic species here and our material is insufficient for syntaxonomic evaluation. The peat-bog communities (Sphagnetum magellanici [Malcuit 1929] Schwickerath 1933, Pino rotundatae-Sphagnetum [Kstner et Flssner 1933] Neuhusl 1969, Vaccinio uliginosi-Pinetum Kleist 1929 em. Matuszkiewicz 1962 and the montane Pinus sylvestris-Betula pubescens peat-bog forest) are only compared in the synthetical table, because they will be analysed in detail in another publication (Neuhusl Ms.). The natural spruce forests (Calamagrosti villosae-Piceetum F. K. Hartmann 1953, see Tab. 10) of the alliance Vaccinio-Piceion are bound with damp and cool terrain depressions in the investigated territory which is situated in the Fagion zone. They are spread secondarily on the dead, partly drained, margins of the peat-bogs. The cultural forests were divided, on the base of their correspondence to the natural potential vegetation, as follows: secondary spruce forests on the sites of acidophilous beech forests, (alliance Luzulo-Fagion Lohmeyer et Tx. 1954), on the sites of the beech and maple forests reech in herbs (suballiances Eu-Fagion Oberd. 1957 em. Tx. 1960 and Acerion pseudoplatani Oberd. 1957) and on the sites of acidophilous montane beech forests (Verticillato-Fagetum Oberd. 1957). No sociological analyses have been carried out in the secondary spruce forests; their classification is based on the terrain factors and the presence of rest species. Two groups of field weed communities, corresponding to the eutrophic (on chalky soils) and oligotrophic (on silicate rocks) substrates were distinguished. The differences between the Campanula rapunculoides-Myosotis arvensis community (on chalky soils) and the Apera spicaventi-Vicia tetrasperma community (on siliceous soils) can be seen in Tab. 11. Both communities show the closest dependence on the alliance Aphanion arvensis Malato-Beliz et al. 1960, however they have also a great number of species of the alliance Polygono-Chenopodion W. Koch 1926 em. Siss. 1946. Practically, no differences have been found between weed communities of the cereal and intertilled crops. The map of the real vegetation shows the distribution of the above mentioned communities in the investigated territory (see Fig. 4). 
4181204|A new species of Myosotis ser. Palustres M. Pop., Myosotis margaritae, related to the M. caespitosa group, is described from Bulgaria. Diploid chromosome number (2n=20) is given for the new species, and notes on its distribution, ecology and taxonomic relationships are presented.
4179685| The name Legeriomyces Pouz. is proposed for Genistella Lger et Gauthier (Trichomycetes), which is a later homonym of Genistella Ortega (Papilionaceae). Simultaneously the family name Legeriomycetaceae Pouz. is proposed to replace the family name Genistellaceae Lger et Gauthier. 
4180880| The paper summarizes hitherto known data concerning the biology and ecology of Sagittaria sagittifolia. The distribution of this species in Czechoslovakia was assessed on the basis of literature data, herbarium specimens and the authors' own data. The occurrence of this species in plant communities is shown in tables from selected phytocoenological relevs. The chemical properties of the substratum in habitats of Sagittaria sagittifolia over all its distribution area in Czechoslovakia were studied and comparisons calculated by means of cluster analysis. Life cycle, seed production, germination and biomass production of this species were studied and compared with conditions in its habitats. 
4179975| A survey of the present vegetation of the Prokop Valley Nature Reserve revealed the following natural communities: Erysimo crepidifolii-Festucetum valesiacae Klika 1933, Alysso saxatilis-Festucetum Klika 1941, Allio montani-Sedetum albi Klika 1939, Helianthemo cani-Caricetum humilis ass. nova, Helianthemo cani-Seslerietum calcariae Klika 1933, Primulo veris-Seslerietum calcariae Zlatnk 1928, Prunion spinosae So (1931) 1940 em. Tx. 1952, Prunion fruticosae Tx. 1952, Scabioso ochroleucae-Brachypodietum pinnati Klika 1932, Salvio nemorosae-Melicetum transsilvanicae ass. nova, Lathyro versicoloris-Quercetum pubescentis Klika 1932, Geranio-Peucedanetum cervariae (Kuhn 1937) Th. Mller 1961, Galio-Carpinetum Oberdorfer 1957, Aceri-Carpinetum Klika 1941, Luzulo-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Passarge 1953, Genistion Bcher 1943, Mentho-Juncetum inflexi Lohmeyer 1953. For the anthropogenic vegetation another group of units was used. The species composition, environmental relationships and area of distribution are given for every mapping unit; characteristic soil properties for most important units of natural vegetation are also discussed. 
4181282|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat & Moravec 1994), the present work collects the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1991. The list comprises 76 names of syntaxa; one name is added to the Index 1989 (Theurillat & Moravec 1992).
4180069| The paper sums up the first knowledge obtained from the study of seasonal changes in the growth and decomposition rate of underground plant biomass in a grassland community (Polygalo-Nardetum) in the highland eskomoravsk vrchovina. The maximum increment of underground organs per day was recorded in late summer (
4180993| The ecology of seed germination was examined in air-conditioned boxes in the laboratory, and the sprouting conditions of seeds were investigated in an experimental plot at Prhonice. It was found that the seeds showed no marked dormancy, but that by stratification or putting of seeds into cool soil the speed and abundance of germination was enlarged, especially at low temperatures. The optimum temperatures for germinating are 10/25-30 C and 15C (see the table). At the temperature of 3 C the seeds did not germinate. The sprouting of seeds which got into the soil at the end of summer or at the beginning of autumn goes off mostly from October to November and again in spring, about the middle of April. The young plants with one pair of true leaves for the most part hibernate. In natural conditions this species reproduced only in the generative way, by seeds, in laboratory conditions the possibility of vegetative propagation by cuttings is also reported. The main way of spreading is by anemochory (steppe runners). 
4179777|In the discussion about Glomera and Glossorhyncha reasons are given how to delimit and redefine the two genera. The genus Giulianettia is merged into Glossorhyncha. A list of species belonging to each genus is included resulting in several new combinations.
4181083| Species of family Cuscutaceae belonging to three genera, viz. Grammica, Monogynella and Cuscuta s. str. were studied in Egypt, some of them also in Iraq. Descriptions, keys, tables with comparisons of main morphological features, as well as taxonomic, chorological, and ecological notes, and also phytocartograms of the following taxa growing or expected in Egypt are given: Grammica campestris (Yuncker) Hada et Chrtek, G. chinensis (Lam.) Hada et Chrtek, Monogynella monogyna (Vahl) Hada et Chrtek, Cuscuta pedicellata Ledeb., C. epilinum Weihe ex Boenn., C. palaestina Boiss. (incl. C. balansae Boiss. et Reuter ex Yuncker), C. planiflora Ten. (incl. C. approximata Babingt.), and C. brevistyla A. Rich. A new variety of Monogynella monogyna, var. hadacii, was described from Iraq. A new combination, Monogynella monogyna subsp. esquamata (Engelm.) Chrtek et Osbornov, was made. Main attention was given to Grammica campestris, the species that is nowadays expanding in Egypt. 
4179530|Changes of plant communities (or biotic communities) are classified according to their causes. The term succession is restricted in Clements' original sense to gradual directional replacemental changes of phytocenoses (or biocenoses) caused by their reaction upon the environment including soil development and a classification of succession is proposed. Gradual changes of communities caused by external factors are termed adaptive changes. The connection between succession and soil development as a unified process as well as the concept of climax as its result are discussed. A brief historical survey of the theory of succession as well as soil development is presented and definitions of some successional terms are proposed.
4179842| The lectotype of the name Malcolmia pyramidum C. Presl in Abh. Bhm. Ges. Wiss. ser. 5 (3) 439 (1845) was established in material deposited in the herbarium of the Botanical Institute of the Charles University Praha, (PRC). 
4181262|Morphological plasticity in clonal plants has received wide attention because localized plastic changes in spacer length, branching intensity and branching angle may enable clonal plants to place ramets selectively in the more favourable microhabitats within a heterogeneous environment. These responses have been interpreted in terms of foraging behaviour. Studies of morphological plasticity in clonal plants are usually carried out with one or two genotypes of a species, or with material of unknown genetic origin. Based on the concept of phenotypic plasticity, it is argued that such studies do not reveal whether plasticity in a population can be modified by natural selection. In addition, responses are often evaluated at two environmental conditions only, which may underestimate plasticity. Hence, our information on the ecological and evolutionary significance of morphological plasticity in clonal plants is still very incomplete. Two examples are given to show that stolon internode and rhizome lengths may vary considerably within an individual plant. Only a minor part of this variation may be plastic, i.e. the variation is hardly changed by the environmental conditions to which the plants are subjected. Hence, non-plastic variation in clonal morphology may exceed the degree of morphological plasticity. The non-plastic variation seems to originate from species-specific patterns of stolon and rhizome development. Marked non-plastic variation may obscure the effects of morphological plasticity on the placement pattern of ramets in the field, suggesting that plasticity in clonal morphology may not be very effective in terms of foraging for favourable patches. Possible reasons for the low levels of plasticity of clonal spacers are discussed.
4179726| Chromosome numbers are reported for two Mongolian species, Dracocephalum foetidum Bunge (2n = 12) and Koenigia islandica L. (2n = 14). The relationship of D. foetidum to D. moldavica L. (2n = 10) and some patterns of phenotypic variation in K. islandica are briefly discussed. The following new combinations are proposed: K. cyanadra (Diels) Msek et Sojk, K. forrestii (Diels) Msek et Sojk, K. hubertii (Lingelsh.) Msek et Sojk, and K. nummularifolia (Meisn.) Msek et Sojk. 
4181219|Chromosome numbers were counted in Butomus umbellatus from 99 localities in both Czech and Slovak Republics and the karyotype morphology was studied. Basic chromosome sets are asymmetrical and uniform among diploids (2n = 26) and triploids (2n = 39). Diploids occur less frequently than triploids in this region. Their clonal populations are usually fertile owing to self-compatibility. The clonal populations of triploids are self-incompatible and usually sterile. Thus, the different self-compatibility is the main biological character distinguishing diploids from triploids. Pollen of triploids is viable in spite of meiotic irregularities in pollen mother cells (PMCs). Hybridization both between cytotypes and between the different triploid genets may take place, if they occur sympatrically. Offspring having diverse chromosome numbers between diploid and triploid level can originate as the consequence of such hybridization.
4181206| An introduction is presented to a taxonomic evaluation of rich cultivated and herbarium material of the genus Taraxacum from the Caucasus. Sources of the material, a survey of localities, and a preliminary account of the sections and species groups of Taraxacum described from the Caucasus are given. The introduction is followed by a monograph of T. sect. Porphyrantha, a section shown (contrary to the original conception and some literature data) to be endemic to the Caucasus. Six new species are described belonging to the section divided in two subsections, subsect. Porphyrantha and subsect. Haemantha, viz. T. pseudoporphyranthum, T. vepallidum, T. haemanthum, T. ignivomum, T. exstinctum and T. deminutum. Lectotypes are selected for T. porphyranthum Boiss. and T. pseudoroseum ikin. 
4179876| Die achte Studie ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) ist den Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum., die in Australien, Neuseeland und Ozeanien vorkommen, gewidmet. Die meist endemischen Arten, die auf Hawaii vorkommen, werden als eine selbstndige (neunte) Studie bearbeitet. Im genannten Gebiet wurden 13 Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. festgestellt. J. (P.) hasskarliana (Nees) Steph., J. (P.) obliquifolia (Schiffn.) Va, J. (P.) tetragona Lindenb., J. (P.) hirticalyx Steph., J. (P.) minutiverrucosa Amak., J. (P.) wattsiana Steph., J. (S.) ariadne Tayl., J. (S.) totipapillosa Hodgs., J. (S.) inundata Hook. fil. et Tayl. emend. Mitt. und J. (S.) orbiculata (Col.) Grolle sind eingehend taxonomisch bearbeitet, J. (P.) micrantha (Mitt.) Steph. wird in die nchste Studie eingereiht. J. (P.) boninensis (Horik.) Inoue wurde von Inoue (Inoue et Iwatsuki 1969) eingehend beschrieben und abgebildet, Haplozia comptonii Pears. wurde schon im 2. Teil diskutiert. Die anderen aus dem Gebiet bekannten Arten sind mit den obenerwhnten Arten synonymisiert oder zu anderen Gattungen gestellt. /// This eight study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys according to sterile and fertile plants to the species of the genus Jungermannia L. emed. Dum. growing in Australia, New Zealand and Oceania (excl. Hawaii). 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, data on the type and exsiccata of ten Jungermannia species from the cited area. There are also notes on ecology, geographical distribution, taxonomy, variation and relationships of these taxa. 3. A list of species belonging to other genera. Taxonomically J. (P.) hasskarliana (Nees) Steph., J. (P.) obliquifolia (Schiffn). Va, J. (P.) tetragona Lindenb., J. (P.) hirticalyx Steph., J. (P.) minutiverrucosa Amak., J. (P.) wattsiana Steph., J. (S.) ariadne Tayl., J. (S.) totipapillosa Hodgs., J. (S.) inundata Hook. fil. et Tayl. emend. Mitt. and J. (S.) orbiculata (Col.) Grolle are treated as good species. Many other taxa are considered to be habitat modifications. 
4180410| Fir-spruce forests and climax spruce forests of the western part of the Slovensk Beskydy and Oravsk Magura Mts. are syntaxonomically described. Beech forests are also mentioned marginally, to distinguish the natural floristic differentiation between coniferous and deciduous phytocoenoses. 
4180020| Eine neue foliikole Flechte (Pleurotrema epiphylla sp. n.) aus Zare (Zentral-Afrika) wird beschrieben. Die Systematischen Beziehungen der neuen Art zu den anderen Pleurotrema-Arten und die Stellung der Gattung Pleurotrema innerhalb der Familie Paratheliaceae wird kurz diskutiert. 
4180991|Based on the study of herbarium material, a critical taxonomic account has been provided on Cardamine sect. Macrophyllum (Cruciferae) from the Asian territory of the Soviet Union. Different morphological characters were examined but special attention was paid to flowers, nectar glands, pollen grains, fruits and seeds, followed by the anatomical studies of fruits and seeds. 8 species have been recognized which are arranged in 2 subsections under Cardamine sect. Macrophyllum viz. 1. Macrophyllae (C. leucantha, C. tomentella, C. macrophylla and C. densiflora) and 2. Prorepentae (C. schinziana, C. yezoensis, C. amareaformis and C. prorepens). Phylogenetic trend also has been traced out suggesting preliminary centres of divergency and polymorphism of the treated taxa.
4179681| Die Ergebnisse der pollenanalytischen und grossrestanalytischen Bearbeitung der See- und Torfablagerungen von Vracov (Sdmhren, Tschechoslowakei) ermglichten einen ersten Einblick in die Vegetationsentwicklung der unmittelbaren und weiteren Umgebung des ehemaligen Sees von Vracov. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit ist der sich im Pollendiagramm widerspiegelden Beeinflussung von Vegetation und Landschaft durch menschliche Ttigkeit gewidmet worden. Ferner wird die Problematik der Ursprnglichkeit und Kontinuitt der sdmhrischen xerothermen Steppenvegetation und die damit verbundene Frage nach dem Entstehen und der Entwicklung der Tschernosembden im Untersuchungsgebiet diskutiert. /// The present paper submits the first results of palaeoecological investigations carried out in the area of a former lake on the outskirts of the town of Vracov (SE Moravia - Czechoslovakia). The locality is situated by the border of the extensive subarid Pannonian Lowlands, thus having great importance for study of the vegetation history of this area. The present paper is chiefly based on pollen and macroscopic analyses of the profile DU-1-B. Although the results and conclusions offered by this paper cannot be definitive (research being still in progress) some fundamental information on several problems has already been obtained. This information concerns: (1) the development of the lake proper and the changing of its vegetation during the Late Weichselian and Flandrian; (2) the development of the neighbouring forests and of dry-land vegetation in the same period; (3) the extent and type of agriculture and of human activity in the area; (4) the steppe problem associated with the problem of the origin and evolution of the chernozem soils. 1. The origin of the former lake of Vracov is supposed to go back to the beginning of the Late-Weichselian Period. As late as the end of the Pre-boreal Period the lake was open and algengyttja was deposited on its bottom. During the Boreal and Atlantic Periods, the edges of the lake were gradually covered by Carex and Phragmites stands. In spite of some short regressions to the Carex-Phragmites stands, between the end of the Sub-boreal Period and the beginning of this century the lake was filled in by brown-moss communities. About fifty years ago the fen was drained. According to the type of sedimentation and vegetation succession, the whole period of the existence of the lake can be divided into eight phases (see p. 290, 291). 2. The pollen diagram traces the development of dry-land vegetation since the Allerd or from the end of the older Dryas. As early as in the Allerd Period an uninterrupted forest cover in the area consisting of Betula and Pinus is supposed to have existed. In the Pre-boreal Period, Quercus and Ulmus also appeared in addition to the dominants Betula and Pinus. Corylus was widespread and, in the Boreal, it reached its maximum. In the Boreal and Atlantic Periods the common type of mixed oak forests become predominant in the lowlands. Fagus and Abies and, partly, Carpinus appeared in the foothills of the Chiby Mountains. Fagus appears continuously from the Boreal, Abies from the beginning of the Pre-boreal; however, these trees attained their maximum development as late as the older Sub-atlantic Period. The final formation of the climax forests as known from today can also be dated to that time. 3. The first traces of human settlement and agriculture go back (according to the pollen diagram) to the end of the Atlantic Period. Since that time, as also shown by archeological and historical data, the region round Vracov has been continuously settled. According to the type and extent of agricultural activity revealed by pollen diagram, five stages can be distinguished: a) Neolithic and Aeneolithic Man seems to be a pastoralist using the forest for grazing his cattle, while the cereal production was limited to small patches of land round human settlements and exerted no great influence on the extent of forest cover. b) Bronze Age Man in the Sub-boreal Period began to reduce the total forest area. The extensive cereal cultivation became predominant over grazing activity. The fallows were probably used as pasture land in this period. c) In the Iron Age, Roman Period and during the Great Migration Period (the Older Subatlantic) the area of cultivated soil was substantially enlarged. The most accessible and most productive soils were apparently deforested in that period. The extensive cultivation of cereals still predominated, but new cultivated plants seem to be introduced in that time (Cannabis, Vitis vinifera, Juglans). d) In the Middle Ages (the older part of the Younger Subatlantic Period) the human settlements spread and even less accessible and less productive soils were deforested in the area of the Chiby foothills, originally covered by Quercus-Carpinus and Fagus-Abies forests. The still extensive cultivation of cereals, together with fallows used for grazing spread to new large regions. e) The decline of agriculture towards the end of the Middle Ages was succeeded by a stage of great agricultural expansion, in which the land was much more intensely cultivated than before. Consequently, the remaining forest stands were used as pasture lands. The pollen diagram reveals the introduction of Fagopyrum and systematic cultivation of Cannabis. 4. The uninterrupted forest cover of the area lasted from the Allerd to the very end of the Atlantic Period. This is the reason why the existence of open steppe vegetation producing chernozem soils on loess during the Boreal or Atlantic Periods (as suggested by existing hypotheses) can be ruled out. A detailed discussion is devoted to the history of steppe vegetation during the Flandrian and to the problem of the origin and evolution of the chernozem soils. New discoveries seem to suggest that the chernozem soils could originate or remain in existence also under certain forest vegetation in suitable climatic and vegetational conditions of Central Europe. 
4181443| The presence of various flavonoids, naphthodianthrones and phloroglucinol derivatives was studied in the natural pentaploid hybrid H. maculatum Crantz subsp. maculatum  H. perforatum L. The hybrid taxon was shown to have secondary metabolites in common with both putative parents thus confirming its parentage. Morphological and nomenclatural questions are briefly discussed. 
4180657|On the north shore of Lake Balaton four study areas were selected with different levels of mineral nutrient supply (two of them are at sewage inflows, one is at the mouth of a natural watercourse, and one is unaffected by water inflow). Studies were made on the development of Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steudel stands. Monthly levels of N, P, K, Na, Ca and Mg in the organs (leaf-blade, leaf-sheath, culm, aquatic root, rhizome and root) of reed were determined from April to October in 1980. Differences were detected between the four study areas in the shoot height, mass, growth rate and element contents. In the aboveground organs, the levels of N, P, and K showed a decrease all through the growing season, but Ca and Mg rose to a peak before declining for the rest of the season. In the underground organs the levels of N and P decreased to a minimum in June to July and thereafter the quantities of these elements gradually increased. In the most heavily contaminated area (area IV), significantly higher levels of tissue N, P and K were found.
4179508| Die asiatische Art Virga strigosa hat sich in der letzten Zeit an den Schuttpltzen, Bachufern und in den Gebschen in einigen Gebieten von Bhmen (besonders bei Praha, Jlov, Hradec Krlov und Opono) eingebrgert. In dieser Mitteilung werden die Studienergebnisse ber die Verbreitungsbiologie und Keimung der Virga-Frchte angefrt. Sie berichtet auch ber das Vorkommen und die Verbreitung dieser Art bei der Stadt Jlov bei Praha in den letzten 6 Jahren und gibt die Unterschiede zwischen der fremden Art Virga strigosa und der einheimischen Art Virga pilosa an (Synonymik siehe bei Holub 1964). 
4179631| Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae stellt auf dem Gebiet der Tschechoslowakei eine sowohl floristisch als auch kologisch zeimlich gut ausgeprgte Assoziation dar. Es trgt den Kennzeichnenden Charakter der Kontaktgesellschaften mit Bindung an nasse bis wechselfeuchtige Bden, deren Sorptionskomplex mit Ionen zweiwertiger Basen gesttigt ist. Es sind zwei Subassoziationen angefhrt: Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae typicum und Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae caricetosum. An analogen Standorten mit saureren Bden und nicht vllig gesttigtem Sorptionskomplex entwickelt sich die Assoziation Epilobio-Juncetum (effusi). /// Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae which has been investigated in various parts of Czechoslovakia represents a rather uniform community with comparatively true characteristic species - Juncus inflexus, Mentha longifolia, and in the investigated areas also Hypericum tetrapterum. The specific composition in general is also characteristic - first of all there is the constant share of species bound more strictly to the alliance Agropyro-Rumicion crispi as well as of species equipped with a wider cenotic amplitude, the optimum of which is situated within the units of the class Plantaginetea maioris. The species group from other cenological units is numerous, indeed, but these species are mostly not very constant. Within the association there are two subassociations to be distinguished: Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae typicum (without any differential species) which is bound to lower sites, and Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae caricetosum stellulatae with a number of differential species; it is differentiated from the ecological standpoint, too. The last-mentioned subassociation simultaneously represents an ecological mountain race. Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae is a community on the contact of relatively moist and dry habitats; usually it surrounds spring areas on slopes, or depressions of riverain sites which are flooded for short periods only. Beside the moist or temporarily waterlogged soil (soil types gley or anmoor), another important condition for the rise of the association is high base-saturation of the soil sorption complex; this circumstance evidently contributes to higher nitrate production in the soil. Epilobio-Juncetum (effusi) arises on habitats of analogous character, but with more acid soil, in which the sorption complex is not so saturated with bases and the Al
4179738|The division of Cuscuta s.l. into 4 genera, based mainly on floral morphology, is corroborated by their embryology. Several new combinations in Monogynella and Grammica are proposed.
4180987|Attempts have been made to reveal the survival strategies of the two forms of Trianthema portulacastrum. These morphs, viz rubra and flava, do not show any remarkable difference in their morphology, phenology and water relations. Metabolically, rubra form is more hardy than flava form, because of lesser water loss, higher water retention capacity, high protein content and higher levels of proline accumulation at different stages of plant growth. Seed germination studies revealed the presence of hard seed coatedness in both merphs, being more in the flava form.
4180558| A description of some woodless plant communities occurring in the central part of the Isla de la Juventud is presented. Most of the communities originated from Pinus forests. The substrate is formed by oligotrophic white sand. According to the plant composition and the corresponding water regime, three classes were established in the area under study: the Hydrolaeetea nigricaulis Baltov-Tulkov 1985; the Parvirhynschosporo-Eriocauletea Borhidi in Baltov-Tulkov et Capote 1985 and the Curatello-Byrsonimetea Borhidi ex Baltov-Tulkov et Surli 1983. The communities of the first class, poor in species, are bound to periodically inundated depressions. The second class, the Parvirhynchosporo-Eriocauletea, includes communities occurring in area with inundations shallower than those in the first class. The third class, the Curatello-Byrsonimetea, includes savanna communities of periodically dry sites. 
4180371| Excerpted iconographies (printed or manuscripts) from the beginnings of investigation of Czech flora (1786-1835) contain pictures of many plants described by the early Bohemian botanists, starting with F. W. Schmidt and ending with the Presl brothers. Illustrations belonging to the protologue are of high taxonomical value. Some of the iconographies were discovered only recently by the author. Many were not exploited since no lists of depicted plants existed. These were reasons why the present index was compiled. /// Dieses Verzeichnis der Gefsspflanzen-Abbildungen aus der ltesten bhmischen Ikonographien dient vor allem als taxonomisches Hilfsbuch zum Auffinden derjenigen Abbildungen, die zum Protolog-Material der von bhmischen Botanikern beschriebenen Arten gehren oder ihre taxonomische Auffassung der Arten erklren. Fr den ersten Teil des Verzeichnisses wurden nur Ikonographien exzerpiert; einige waren bisher ganz unbekannt, manche andere wurden nicht benutzt, weil deren Inhalt unbekannt geblieben ist. Bemerkungen zu einzelnen Ikonographien sind chronologisch geordnet. Die Bibliotheken, wo die scltensten Ikonographien mit beigefgten Signaturen aufbewahrt werden, sind im bibliographishen Verzeichnis der Ikonographien angefhrt. Der zweite Teil des Verzeichnisses wird die in zerstreuten Zeitschriftenartikeln verffentlichten Pflanzenabbildungen aus demselben Zeitabschnitt einschliessen. 
4181393|Variance deficit in the number of species per sampling unit, as compared to a null model with species occurring independently of each other has been considered by various authors to be evidence for niche limitation. I show that simpler mechanisms could explain this phenomenon. Of those, the competition of individuals for space limits the number of individuals per sampling unit, resulting in decrease of variance in species richness. Testing the proportions of species belonging to various guilds seems to be more ecologically interesting, although here also the variance deficit can hardly be taken as reliable evidence for niche limitation.
4181164|The paper summarizes data concerning the biology and ecology of Oenanthe aquatica. The species is commonly distributed all over Czechoslovakia, from lowlands to the submontane belt, especially in fishpond and river basins. O. aquatica shows no special relationship to the chemical and physical soil properties, and is well adapted to habitats with a changing water level. The reproduction of O. aquatica depends on emerging of the bottom. The most developed populations are formed by biennial plants and arise in the year following summer or autumn drainage.
4180292| Die vorliegende Darstellung knpft thematisch und inhaltlich an die Schilderung der Gesellschaften des Onopordion acanthii-Verbandes im nrdlichen Teil der Donau-Tiefebene (Mucina 1981) an. Sie enthlt die Bearbeitung subthermophiler Gesellschaften des Dauco-Melilotion-Verbandes auf ruderalen Standorten, wie: Melilotetum albae-officinalis, Berterotum incanae, Dauco-Picridetum, Dauco-Crepidetum rhoeadifoliae und der Erigeron annuus-Gesellschaft. Als neu wurden folgende Syntaxa beschrieben: Berterotum incanae typicum typische Variante und die Variante mit Salvia nemorosa, Dauco-Picridetum typicum typische Variante und die Variante mit Atriplex acuminata und Dauco-Picridetum crepidetosum biennidis. Die untersuchte Gesellschaften-Gruppe entspricht standrtlich der Gruppe der gleichfalls in den Rahmen des Dauco-Melilotion-Verbandes eingeordneten Gesellschaften-Gruppe natrlicher Standorte. /// The phytosociological treatment of the alliance Dauco-Melilotion Grs 1966 on ruderal and semiruderal sites as well in the northwestern part of Podunajsk Lowlands follows that one of the alliance Onopordion acanthii Br-bl. 1926. (cf. Mucina 1981). General characteristics (synmorphological, syntaxonomical, synecologicall, syndynamical and synchorological) of the associations Melilotetum albae-officinalis, Berterotum incanae, Dauco-Picridetum, Dauco-Crepidetum rhoeadifoliae and the Erigeron annuus-community are presented. The most of vegetation types treated here in the rang of subassociation and variant as well are described as a new ones. This is the case of Dauco-Picridetum typicum (incl. both variants - typical and var. with Atriplex acuminata), Dauco-Picridetum crepidetosum biennidis, Berterotum incanae var. typical, and var. with Salvia nemorosa. Soil analyses are added (Melilotetum albae-officinalis, Berterotum incanae, and Dauco-Picridetum). 
4180688|Seed survival of Avena fatua L. var. fatua at various depths (0 to 50 cm) in a degraded chernozem was studied over a period of eight years. Statistical evaluation showed that seeds survived significantly during the first two years at depths of 0 to 20 cm, while at depths of 30 to 50 cm seeds statistically survived in the course of four years. After six years significant withering was observed within the whole soil profile, though 1% of seeds remained viable even until the eighth year. A tendency for prolonged survival of small seeds, and partly of medium ones, was observed in deeper soil layers in the sixth and seventh year.
4181224| Chromosome numbers are reported for 19 collections representing 16 Asiatic Potentilla taxa. The first chromosome records are reported for P. desertorum Bunge var. arnavatensis Wolf (2n = 28), P. festiva Sojk (2n = 28), P. griffithii Hook f. subsp. beauvaisii (Cardot) Sojk (2n = 42), P. micropetala D. Don subsp. byssitecta (Sojk) Msek et Sojk (2n = 14), P. mollissima Lehm. (2n = 28), P. moorcroftii Wall. ex Lehm. (2n = 42), P. multicaulis Bunge (2n = 14), P. [x] omissa Sojk (2n = 35, 56, 70) and P. stanjukoviczii Ovcz. ex Koczk. (2n = 14). Counts differing from those previously recorded are given for P. algida Sojk (2n = 56) and P. flagellaris Willd. ex Schlecht. (2n = 42). Chromosome numbers of the following species were confirmed: P. [x] agrimonioides Bieb. (2n = 42), P. chinensis Ser. in DC. (2n = 14), P. fragarioides L. (2n = 14), P. lineata Trev. (2n = 14) and P. sericea L. (2n = 28). Taxonomy is briefly discussed. A new combination P. micropetala D. Don subsp. byssitecta (Sojk) Msek et Sojk stat. nov. is proposed. 
4179577|The first part of a study on the phytogeography and phytosociology of Rhynchospora alba (L.) Vahl in Czechoslovakia presents the data on the distribution of the plant. Data from literature and from herbaria are subjected to critical evaluation, and a list of localities and distribution maps are appended.
4180411| This part of the study, referring to the previous syntaxonomic part (Kov 1981), presents the results of a synecological examination of nine grassland communities of the Labe river basin covering roughly the following gradient of the alluvial hydrosere: the Cerastio arvensi-Festucetum trachyphyllae trifolietosum pratensis, the Arrhenatheretum elatioris typicum, the Alopecuretum pratensis, the Stellario-Deschampsietum caespitosae phalaridetosum, the Serratulo-Festucetum commutatae, the Molinietum coeruleae brometosum, the Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei, the Caricetum gracilis typicum, the Caricetum buekii. The long-term study of ground-water level fluctuations showed their close connection to other characteristics of the meadow soils (soil type, moisture content, granulometric composition, capillary water-holding capacity, porosity, acidity, mineral nutrient contents, microbial activity, soil temperature) as well as to the development and distribution of the grassland communities associated with ecosystems of river alluvia. The formation and dynamics of the vegetation in the large river floodplain (at present exposed to the impact of far-reaching hydrological alteration) are explained as a consequence of changes in the natural ecocycles supporting the long-term stable character of the large river basin within the landscape. 
4180924| The salt marsh vegetation on the west coast of North Korea was studied by the method of the Zrich-Montpellier school. The following communities were distinguished: Suaedetum japonicae, Scirpetum iseensis, Artemisietum fukudo, and the following were described as new: Triglochini maritimae-Phragmitetum communis, Artemisio capillaris-Salsoletum komarovii and Salsolo komarovii-Rosetum rugosae. The phytocoenological material was also analysed by means of numerical techniques. The population density of Suaeda japonica was examined in accordance with the distance from the sea. The description of the zoning of the vegetation was based on the study of transects three localities and was supplemented by chemical analyses of the soil. 
4181202| The black alder (Alnus glutinosa (L.) Gaertn.) stands occupy 2.5% of the forest area in Latvia. The majority of its communities lie on peatlands; they have been studied in the whole of Latvia using the Braun-Blanquet approach. One hundred and fifty alder dominated relevs selected from 334 forest areas have been analysed. Three associations (Carici elongatae-Alnetum, Sphagno squarrosi-Alnetum, and Circaeo-Alnetum), one with four subassociations have been recognized; these belong to the Eurosiberian alder swamps (cl. Alnetea glutinosae) and the European broad-leaved forests (cl. Querco-Fagetea). The phytosociological structure, distribution in Latvia and floristic features of these communities are reported. Results are compared with similar communities in the Baltic Sea states and neighbouring countries. 
4179446| Die bisher verffentlichten Aufnahmen und Tabellen der azidophilen Eichen- und Eichenmischwlder (Klasse Quercetea robori-petraeae) in Bhmen, Mhren und im tschechoslowakischen Schlesien, wurden einer syntaxonomischen Revision unterzogen. Es wurden drei Assoziationen unterschieden: Luzulo-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Passarge 1953 em., Molinio-Quercetum ass. nova und Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum Oberdorfer 1957. Bei diesen Assoziationen wurden ihre Struktur, innere Variabilitt, die Standortsverhltnisse und die Verbreitung erforscht, weiter der Schriftenvergleich und die wirtschaftliche Wertung behandelt. Die Assoziationen wurden in einen neuen Verband Genisto germanicae-Quercion fed. nova eingereiht, welcher zur Ordnung Quercetalia robori-petraeae gehrt. Die subatlantisch-atlantischen azidophilen Eichen- und Eichenmischwlder wurden in den Verband Quercion roboris (Malcuit 1929) Txen 1930 eingegliedert. /// The accessible papers on vegetation plots (relevs) of acidophilous oak forests in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia published to date have been re-evaluated. The basic method employed was the floristic sociological tabular arrangement according to Braun-Blanquet. Of the 554 vegetation plots and synthetic tables that were investigated, 386 plots belong to the Quercetalia robori-petraeae order, the other plots to other classes (Carpinion, Fagion, Betulion pubescentis, Galio-Abietion alliances etc.). The results of the analysis led the authors to consider the subcontinental acidophilous oak forests as an independent alliance, the Genisto germanicae-Quercion, and to allocate the subatlantic-atlantic oak forests within the Quercion roboris (Malcuit 1929) Txen 1930, since the Quercion robori-petraeae alliance as understood by Braun-Blanquet 1932 was too broadly conceived. To this Genisto germanicae-Quercion belong the associations analysed below, i.e. the Luzulo-Quercetum, Molinio arundinaceae-Quercetum and Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum; to the Quercion roboris belong the associations Querco robori-Betuletum Txen (1930) 1937, Fago-Quercetum Tx. 1955, Violo-Quercetum (Tx. 1937) Oberd. 1957, Quercetum occidentale Gaume 1924 (corr. Braun-Blanquet 1932), and perhaps Blechno-Quercetum Braun-Blanquet et Txen 1952. The Genisto germanicae-Quercion can be characterized by the following species: Genista germanica, Cytisus nigricans, Platanthera bifolia, Silene nutans, Hieracium sabaudum and Hieracium racemosum. As character or differentiating species of the atlantic Quercion roboris alliance Lonicera periclymenum, Teucrium scorodonia, Lathyrus montanus, Hypericum pulchrum, Corydalis claviculata, or other atlantic species, e.g. Ilex aquifolium, Galium saxatile, etc. may be considered. On the basis of a new investigation three associations weree differentiated in the western regions of Czechoslovakia. They are the Luzulo albidae-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Passarge 1953 emend. Neuhusl et Neuhuslov, the Molinio arundinaceae-Quercetum ass. nova and the Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum Oberdorfer 1957. The Luzulo-Quercetum, which was previously most frequently specified as Quercetum medioeuropaeum Br-Bl. 1932 or as Genisto-Quercetum Klika 1932, is characterized by Luzula albida, Viola riviniana, Luzula campestris and Atrichum undulatum. This association is relatively rich in species. Apart from vague and ecologically insignificant species the acidophilous forest species constitute a substantial component of the association. The presence of some not very pretentious species of the Querco-Fagetea class (including the lower units), is also characteristic of the floristic composition of the Luzulo-Quercetum. The Luzulo-Quercetum has been divided into two subassociations (the genistetosum tinctoriae (Samek 1964) subass. nova and the typicum). The Genista tinctoria subassociation which occurs in warmer or drier regions and on dry sites with a southern aspect outside these regions, exhibits the following differentiating species: Genista tinctoria, Cytisus nigricans, Viscaria vulgaris and Silene nutans. The typical subassociation exhibits no differentiating species and represents the mesophilous type of this association. In the paper other lower units of the Luzulo-Quercetum are also analysed. The geographical distribution of the Luzulo-Quercetum (according to the revised vegetation plots) in Bohemia, Moravia-Silesia can be seen from the maps of localities (Fig. 1, 2). The area of this association has been little known as yet and encompasess the subcontinental part of Central Europe. The association thrives in lower positions on oligotrophic soils. However, it avoids extremely poor sandy and silicious soils deprived of nutrients as well as those affected by standing water, podzolic and semiligley soils. A survey of the literature and a short evaluation of the association are attached. The Molinio arundinaceae-Quercetum, formerly called Querco-Betuletum by Czechoslovak authors, is characterized by the character species Molinia arundinacea and the differentiating species Frangula alnus and Betula pubescens. This association is fairly poor. It lacks not only many character species of the alliance, but also the more demanding vague forest species and those of the Querco-Fagetea class. The Molinio-Quercetum has been divided into two subassociations according to floristic composition and habitat, viz. into a moister Populus tremula subassociation (differentiating species: Populus tremula, Lysimachia vulgaris, Hieracium laevigatum) and a dry Pleurozium schreberi-subassociation (differentiating species: Pleurozium schreberi, Carex pilulifera, Leucobryum glaucum, Polytrichum formosum). The association rests on periodically moist, rather oligotrophic and acid semiligley soils in the lower situations of our territory. The geographical distribution of the association can be seen from the map of localities (Fig. 3); outside Czechoslovakia very similar stands have been indicated in the central German dry territory. The Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum Oberd. 1957 represents a relatively continental type of our acidophilous, mixed oak forests. The following are considered character or differentiating species for the pine oak forest: Pinus silvestris, Vaccinium vitis-idaea, Dicranum polysetum and Cladonia. This association is very poor in species; the character species of the acidophilous oak forests (Quercetea robori-petraeae and the subordinated units) are very rarely represented, which also points to the allocation of this association in the Quercetea robori-petraeae class (in the direction towards the Vaccinio-Piceetea class). There occurs only one group of acidophilous forest species with a high cover degree and constancy. The association is divided into two subassociations, in the Convallaria majalis one (differentiating species: Convallaria majalis) and the Calluna vulgaris subassociation (differentiating species: Calluna vulgaris, Sieglingia decumbens, Potentilla erecta, Nardus stricta, Antennaria dioica). The Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum rests on the extremely poor, acid sandy weathering material of rocks poor in bases, on the sandstones of the cenomanian and sandy terraces. Its distribution on our territory can be seen in the map (Fig. 4). The area of Vaccinio vitis-idaeae-Quercetum is not well known so far; it encompasses aproximately the space between the atlantic Quercion roboris communities and the continental Pinion communities. The units investigated are documented with vegetation plots and tables. 
4179556| Coleanthus subtilis ist in der Tschechoslowakei in den Herzynischen Bezirken, in einer Meereshhe von (180) 400-700 (900) m am meisten verbreitet. Das hufig ephemere und periodische Auftreten dieser Art mit polydisjunktivem Areal wird auf Grund kologischer Gesichtspunkte analysiert. Da die Art im vorigen Jahrhundert aus Bhmen beschrieben wurde, werden im Text einige historische Angaben angefhrt. /// Coleanthus subtilis is a species with a polydisjunctive area of distribution. In Czechoslovakia, where it occurs mainly in the Hercynic region of Bohemia and Moravia, 140 localities have been found. By comparison with the frequency of localities in other areas, this region has been shown to constitute the main area of occurrence for this species. The possible existence of further potential localities in this region is analyzed in this paper. The time interval at which the species has been collected at the single localities is stated. The chromosome number of the species has been confirmed to be 2n = 14 in our material. C. s. is a therophyte (pelochtophyte) with a life cycle lasting 6-7 weeks, the growth form being f. caespitosa. In view of the short period of vegetation, the variability of the morphoses is not very strong (f. typica, f. nana, f. luxurians, f. laxa). The species is adapted to life on drained substrate at river banks and the beds of stagnant waters by the specific character of its water relations. It is very sensitive to a drying of the substrate for longer periods, the optimal soil water capacity being 65% (by weight). Germination is abundant in fluctuating temperatures with an interval of 20 C. This might explain the appearance of two generations, one growing in spring, the other in autumn. Due to the ability of the seeds to float for a certain time (144 hours for whole seeds, 6 hours for seeds deprived of theirs paleae), C. s. is capable of hydrochoric dispersal to distances that are not very remote. The adherence of the seeds does not exclude also the possibility of ornithochoric distribution between the single areas, possibly in combination with the migration of some duck species. The seed production is enormous, even though the abundances of the species in the stands is small. If it is assumed that 5 individuals occur per 1 m
4179928|The mangrove formation on the coasts of S. Atlantic is very poor in species (only 6) compared with mangrove in S. and SE. Asia or E. Africa (more than 30). This fact cannot be explained by ecology. It is suggested that the main cause is the historically late origin of the Atlantic due to the continental drift.
4181182|Nomenclature, typification, generalised distribution, chromosome number, description and taxonomic notes are given for each of 15 species and subspecies recognised within Luzula sect. Luzula in Europe. Attention is paid to possible ways of evolution in the section in Europe. Critical cases are annotated without formal classification. Appendices with an identification key and a selection of herbarium specimens studied are provided.
4180882| Chromosome numbers of the following nine taxa of the Czechoslovak flora are given: Atriplex rosea L., Cardamine resedifolia L., Groenlandia densa (L.) Fourr., Isotes lacustris L., Lysimachia nemorum L., Parnassia palustris L., Phelipanche caesia (Rchb.) Sojk, Rumex patientia L. subsp. patientia and Symphytum officinale L. s. str. A new chromosome number of 2n = 80 is reported for Rumex patientia L. subsp. patientia. Chromosome numbers of another five taxa are first reported from Czechoslovakia. Each of the ascertained chromosome counts is discussed with respect to hitherto known reports. 
4180459| A method of simultaneous analysis of vertical and horizontal structure is described. It is particularly applicable to forest and shrubland. Data come from point-height analysis of vegetation: 100 sample points are arranged in 4 lines of 25, with 2 m between lines and 1 m between points on lines. At each point, specific lists of spaces intercepted optically are observed by vertical measurement strata. Strata depth is 10 cm when mean vegetation height is lower than 4-5 m, and 50 cm above this height. This study is based on height of upper vegetation presence, and applied to low forests of Nothofagus antarctica (Forest.) Verst. in Southern Chle and Argentina. The authors summarize the data sequence by the cumulative sum technique. This technique allows the rapid and clear delimitation of three dimensional mosaic units of vegetation whose height varies vertically from the mean height. The pattern of these mosaic units is shown as three dimensional block diagrams, giving a good representation of structural dominance patterns. 
4180461|Data used come from point-height analysis. 100 sample points are arranged in 4 lines of 25, with 24 m between lines and 1 m between points on lines. At each point, vertical lists of species are compiled, by measurement strata. Such strata depth is 10 cm when mean vegetation height in the stand is lower than 4-5 m and 50 cm when heigher. A synthetic vegetation profile is obtained by sum of species presences in each measurement stratum for all 100 observations. When these profiles are bimodal, vegetation can be divided in two at the secondary minimum level: the upper part is the canopy, the lower the understorey. Only the canopy structure is dealt with in this tudy. Several parameters, describing vertical structure of woody vegetation, are defined and measured. They are: (1) maximum height, (2) upper and lower canopy limits, (3) canopy depth and (4) density. Delimitation of canopy is achieved by calculating the hypegeometric probability of realisation groups of vegetation presence, or absence, in the vertical line of sight. The thickness is the difference between the two previous values (2) and (3) and density the number of intercepts between them. Horizontal variations in those structural parameters are revealed by cumulative sum method which demonstrates different types of pattern. Relations between horizontal variations are studied by pairs; actual values compared by linear correlation analysis while concordance between patterns are characterised by the coefficient of simple concordance of Sokal et Mitchner and by a binary autocorrelation coefficient. Shannon's formula enables an overall appreciation of canopy homogeneity. An example is applied to some stands of Nothofagus antarctica (Forest.) Verst. in Southern Chile and Argentina. The upper canopy limits are the same upper vegetation intercepts so canopies are smooth. High correlation exists between upper and lower limits of the canopies, and low correlation between the latter and thickness and density, so canopies are uniform.
4179419| Die Arbeit behandelt die Chorologie, kologie und phytoznologische Zugehrigkeit der Art Lactuca perennis L. in der SSR. In der Arbeit wird die Genese des Areals dieser Art besprochen und die Bedeutung der Migrationsstrmung innerhalb des karpatischen Bogens hervorgehoben. Der Verfasser weist auf einen entwicklungsmssigen Zusammenhang mit der westmediterranen Art Lactuca tenerrima Pourr. hin. Die Verbreitung in der Tschechoslowakei ist ausfhrlich angegeben, weiter werden kologische Faktoren analysiert und einige Arten mit hnlichen Hauptzgen des Areals angefhrt. /// 1. The species Lactuca perennis L. is a submediterranean-montane geoelement with a slight central-European-suboceanic tendency. 2. It may be assumed that there exists a developmental connection between the species Lactuca perennis and the west-mediterranean species Lactuca tenerrima Pour. L. tenerrima has more primitive morphologico-cytological conditions; at present it is already considerably specialized as a prominent xerothermic species. Also its present geographic area indicates a higher phylogenetic age (the younger Tertiary). In the wider regions of the Alps the glacial era may have caused genetic changes resulting in a new species. However, this species, Lactuca perennis, also shows a relatively high age compared with the majority of the members of the family Asteraceae. This is confirmed by the rather primitive genome, and also by an evident isolation within the scope of the genus, supported by an absence of interspecific hybridization, and, to a certain extent, also by its disjunctive area. L. perennis appears as a species which reached its edaphic and climatic limits a long time ago. 3. Of interest is the genesis of the area of the species L. perennis, which, in this paper, has been investigated primarily with regard to the territory of Czechoslovakia. In this species the main migratory activity probably occurred in the last interglacial, at which period the geographical distribution probably took place in an eastward direction as far as the Bulgarian mountains and towards the north-east via Transsylvania to the North Hungarian Highland. This migratory trend along the inner curve of the Carpathians distinguishes the species L. perennis and some further species from the whole group of taxa spreading from the Balkan peninsula to the territory of Czechoslovakia along the Illyrian-Noric way. If there arose a migratory trend also in this area (this may be assumed as having occurred in a north-eastern direction towards the Hungarian mountains rather than towards the north), then it must have been disturbed considerably by the east-Alpine glaciation in the last glacial epoch, whereas in the regions of Transsylvania and of the North Hungarian Highland the species L. perennis may have survived the unfavourable periods in suitable refuges. To assume the existence of refuges in the north-western part of the area in the course of the last glacial era is much more difficult, but their existence may nevertheless be assumed, and that primarily in the valleys of larger rivers along which important migration occurred in the history of the spreading of the species in the northern part of the area. 4. There is a more detailed investigation of the whole area. The northern limit in the western part of the area lies between latitude 50 and 51 50 N (its northernmost occurrence is near Darlingerode in the Hartz), in the eastern part it lies between latitude 48 and 4910 N (its northernmost occurrence is the Rozsutec mountain (?) and the Mann pass in Slovakia). Contact between the western and the eastern halves of the area is provided by localities near Obervellach in southern Austria. L. perennis is missing in the whole Pannonian lowland, in Lower Austria, and in Moravia. Because of lack of data it was difficult to define the southern limits. In the south it reaches to the Sierra de Mara and to the regions of Granada in the Pyrenean peninsula, in Italy to Monte Pollino. On the Balkan peninsula its southern limit running through Macedonia was defined more accurately on the basis of herbarium material. The easternmost locality ascertained is Shumla in Bulgaria at longitude 2656 E. The paper also mentions hitherto unknown finds made by Domin in the Djula mountains near Sevlyush in the Subcarpathian Ukraine as the first data on a spontaneous occurrence in the USSR. 5. There is a detailed description of the spreading of the species L. perennis in Czechoslovakia, an investigation of some of its migrations, and certain characteristic accompanying species in the various regions are frequently mentioned. Its spreading in Czechoslovakia has been illustrated by means of a complete list of individual localities arranged according to the phytogeographical wholes. In Bohemia L. perennis occurs exclusively in typically xerothermic regions with centres of spreading in the Bohemian Central Montains, in the region of the lower, Moldau, and in the Bohemian Kars. Along the narrow Moldau valley this species penetrated farthest towards the south to Kue south of Zvkov. In Moravia it is altogether absent. In Slovakia it has spread radially from the North Hungarian Highland dispersedly and irregularly over a major part of the region, especially in the southern foot-hills, in the Kars region, and in the valleys of larger rivers. 6. In the Czechoslovak flora there occur certain species with certain similarities with regard to area and with similar ecological requirements, and also species with an analogous Moravian hiatus (e.g. Ceterach officinarum, Allium strictum, Erysimum crepidifolium, Iris aphylla, Coronilla vaginalis, Erythronium denscanis). Of the submediterranean species some (e.g. Fumana procumbens, Erysimum crepidifolium, and Helianthemum canum) have their absolute northern limit in Central Europe similar to that of the species L. perennis. 7. The paper contains an analysis of the phytocoenological relationship of the species L. perennis under central-European conditions. L. perennis appears as an important species of the order Festucetalia vallesiacae Br.-Bl. et Tx. 43. In Bohemia it finds optimum conditions primarily in the xerothermic associations Erysimo (crepidifolii) - Festucetum vallesiacae Klika 33, Seseli (ossei) - Festucetum glaucae Klika (33) 39, Helianthemo (cani) - Seslerietum calcareae Klika 33, or in Caricetum humilis. In the xerothermic regions of Slovakia L. perennis predominates in associations of the order Festucetalia vallesiacae, and in the associations of the Carpathian phytocoenoses it occurs chiefly in Caricetum humilis carpaticum Sillinger 33 and in Seslerietum variae. In Bohemia and also in Slovakia it sometimes penetrates into thinned stands of the association Quercion pubescentis Klika 53 and, rarely, into initial stages on rocks. 8. L. perennis grows predominantly on dry, sunny, rocky slopes and rocky plateaus, mostly with a southern exposure. In the whole area it behaves like a distinctive basiphil. In Bohemia it grows chiefly on basalt and on Silurian-Devonian limestone, rarely on greenstone, arenaceous marl, slate, phonolite, and diorite, in Slovakia it grows on mesozoic limestones and dolomites, on basalt, and on andesite. It prefers humuscarbonate soil with skeleton. 9. The distribution of the species L. perennis in Czechoslovakia is characterized also by climatic factors. A majority of the localities are situated in regions with an average annual temperature of 8-9 C (average temperature in May 13 C). The annual average of precipitations in these regions in Bohemia is (470) - 500-550 - (600) mm, in the more variform terrain of Slovakia it is somewhat higher (550) - 650 -700 - (900) mm. However, the decisive factor is the microclimate of the different localities. 10. L. perennis shows a considerable amplitude in its vertical spreading; it grows in lowland as well as in the subalpine zone. In Bohemia its maximum occurrence is in the zone of from 200 to 400 m above sea level (highest 600 m), in Slovakia 250-650 m (lowest 115 m and highest 1100 m). 11. The infraspecific taxa found in Czechoslovakia, apart from the typical form also f. angustifolia (Wallr.), f. latifolia (Wallr.), f. subintegrifolia (Bornm.), and f. integrifolia (Bischoff), constitute only a wide variational amplitude in a single, considerably changeable character - the shape of the leaves. 12. A very rare case of albinism was recorded by Domin from the hill Velk Hora near Karltejn as the only finding in Czechoslovakia. 
4181442| A hybrid swarm between Viola lutea subsp. sudetica (2n=50, native species) and Viola tricolor (2n=26, introduced species) originated in the 1970's in the Krkonoe Mts. Analyses of chromosome numbers, reproductive biology, morphology, and ecology gave the following results: (1) Compared to the plants found in the 1970's, the number of colour morphs have decreased and the types now prevailing in the field are morphologically closer to V. lutea subsp. sudetica, forming a continuum. (2) In the field, hybrids having approximately the same chromosome number as the primary hybrids are most common. Some plants of the hybrid swarm have certain characters unknown to their parents. (3) In the field, autogamous types similar to V. tricolor were found. (4) A limited number of plants from the field and culture have higher somatic chromosome numbers than V. lutea subsp. sudetica; there was a tendency towards increasing chromosome numbers in their progeny (up to 2n=62). These plants have some new morphological characters (a small proportion of hexacolpate pollen) not found in the parents (nor in the other hybrids with prevailing tetracolpate and pentacolpate pollen grains) and higher pollen fertility in comparison to the other hybrids. These plants also have the highest germination rate. (5) There is a tendency for chromosome numbers to decline in the progeny of open pollinated hybrid plants in the lowland experimental garden. (6) The phenology of the plants in the mountain grasslands and the lowland garden is different; the parents behave in a totally contrasting manner. (7) In the field, at least some hybrids extend outside the geographical and ecological ranges of the parental species, invading new communities. (8) Seeds of V. tricolor do not show any dormancy and germinate in the year of production; most of the V. lutea subsp. sudetica seeds germinate during the spring of the following year. Hybrids with intermediate chromosome numbers had both types of germination strategy. The germination rate of intermediates with high chromosome numbers was even higher than that of V. tricolor. 
4179965| The paper summarizes the present state of knowledge on submerged and emergent macrophyte productivity as related to both natural and man-induced environmental factors. Particular attention is paid to the light and CO
4179743| Vesicular cavities in the lava fields of Northern Iceland communicate by small openings with the ground surface. Aeolian sediments, called the Icelandic loess, deposit over the bottom of these cavities, together with the reduced light intensity and equable microclimate, create specific biotopes occupied by sciophilous bryophytes and Cystopteris fragilis. A new association within the alliance Ctenidion Stefureac 1941 - Cystopteri-Distichietum capillacei Blakov ass. nova - is described in the present paper. 
4179892| In einer umfangreichen Kollektion foliikoler Flechten gesammelt von Dr. T. Pcs in Tanzania wurden 107 Arten festgestellt. Von diesen wurden 20 Arten und 2 Varietten als neu beschrieben. Ein neuer Typus von "Isidia scutelliformia", ein morphologisch ungewhnlicher Pyknidium-Typus und ein komplizierter konidientragender Fruchtkrper wurden auch beschrieben. Ein Bestimmungschlssel der afrikanischen foliikolen Bacidia-Arten und Bemerkungen fr die Umgrenzung der Familie Megalosporaceae (ad interim) sind angefhrt. /// In a large collection of foliicolous lichens from Tanzania, 107 species have been found; 42 for the first time. Twenty species and two varieties have been described as new. Three new species had no relation to existing genera and therefore it was necessary to establish three new genera. In three new Bacidia species a new typus of dish-like isidium (isidium scutelliforme), a morphologically unusual pycnidium, and a complicated fruit-body producing conidia have been discovered and described. A key for determination of all known African foliicollous species of the genus Bacidia is given. Notes to the circumscription of the family Megalosporaceae proposed ad interim are presented. New taxa: Bacidia africana sp. n., B. fragilis sp. n., B. permira sp. n., B. scutellifera sp. n., B. subsimilis sp. n., Byssoloma fadeni sp. n., B. supbolychromum sp. n., Catillaria congesta sp. n., Dimerella hypophylla sp., n., Enterographa effusa sp., n., Megalospora simplex sp. n., Pocsia gen. n., Pocsia marattiae sp. n., Porina apera sp. n., P. epiphylloides sp. n., P. longispora sp. n., P. multipunctata R. Sant. var. schizopora var. n., P. papillifera (Stirt.) Schill. var rubrofusca var. n., P. subpallescens sp., n., P. uluguruensis sp. n., Porinula gen. n., Porinula tanzanica sp. n., Pseudogyalecta gen. n., Pseudogyalecta verrucosa sp. n. and Tricharia armata sp. n. 
4181275|Fifteen successional seres from man-made habitats in central Europe were compared and the occurrence of clonal species assessed on the basis of cover data. The effects of soil moisture and nitrogen (expressed using Ellenberg indicator values) on the performance of clonal plants were also considered. Clonal species formed the dominant component of vegetation cover in the majority of the seres studied. In moist sites, their dominance was more pronounced and the peak in their relative cover occurred earlier in succession. The relative importance of species with guerilla type growth tended to increase with time in most seres and after 10 years these were mostly more important than those exhibiting phalanx type growth. The prevalence of guerilla species after 10 years was more obvious in moist seres. Clonal species were able to become dominant regardless of soil conditions, whereas the dominance of non-clonal species tended to be restricted to very wet and nutrient-poor sites. Clonal plant species appeared to maintain their dominance for a longer period than non-clonal plants.
4181316| The syntaxa of the near-natural sand steppes (class Festucetea vaginatae) and their substitutes due to trampling (Chenopodietea) were studied in 1991 during the Ukrainian-Czech expedition to the Birjuij Island Spit (Azov Sea, Ukraine). Within the alliance Festucion beckeri Vicherek 1972 (class Festucetea vaginatae. So 1968 emend. Vicherek 1972, order Festucetalia vaginatae So 1957) three associations and five communities without rank are described, covering the vegetation variability along gradients of sand stabilization/soil development and salinization/moisture. Further, two associations of the class Chenopodietea, due to deer influence, are described. Four associations (Centaureo odessanae-Stipetum capillatae, Poo bulbosae-Caricetum colchicae, Secali-Cynodontetum dactyli and Heliotropio dolosi-Brometum japonici) are described as new. 
4180833|Seven associations of segetal vegetation are distinguished for the vast arable lands of Central Yakutia. Low species richness and the prevalence of annual weeds are the main features of these communities. Only two dominant species Sphallerocarpus gracilis and Saussurea amara represent Asian types of areals. Other dominants Fallopia convolvulus, Elytrigia repens, Chenopodium album, Brassica campestris, Lappula squarrosa, Scutellaria galericulata, Thlaspi arvense, Avena fatua and Crepis tectorum are typically cosmopolitan. The phytosociological system of the segetal communities is described.
4180886|The main features of autogenic bog development are discussed. Using extensive literature the changes in vegetation, surface topography, soil environment and hydrology are characterized. Oligotrophy and low pH seem to be the most important factors directing bog succession. The decrease in decomposition rates correlates with increase of the content of dissolved oxygen in the soil water. Due to substantial changes in local environment bog succession should be considered first of all as an ecosystem process. In comparison with mineral land communities bog succession is characterized by more deterministic development. Both successional convergence and divergence are observed. In every case the concrete character of bog dynamics depends on the spatial and temporal scales of investigation.
4179463| Der Formenkreis von Riccia crystallina besteht aus zwei Arten: R. crystallina L. emend. Raddi und R. cavernosa Hoffm. emend. Raddi. Die Nomenklatur ist bisher nur provisorisch. R. crystallina erscheint vorlufig als mediterranes Element, R. cavernosa ist berall auf der ganzen Welt verbreitet. Bei der Art R. cavernosa wird eine neue Variett R. cavernosa var. latior var. n. beschrieben. Eine revidierte bersicht von Herbarbelegen ist angefhrt. /// Parmi les Riccia nommes jusqu'ici gnralement crystallina on peut distinguer deux espces: R. crystallina L. emend. Raddi et R. cavernosa Hoffm. emend. Raddi. Utilisation de ces noms n'est que provisoire. La cl suivante rsume leurs diffrences morphologiques: Thalle vert-bleut, dans les rosettes ou dans les parties de la forme de coin, seulement peu et courtement divis, ayant sur la face dorsale de trs petits pores. Capsules non saillantes. Spores de 60-84 m de diamtre, les alvoles  la face distale presque compltement limites,  l'intersections des cloisons avec les tubercules au sommet bident. Aile portant 1-3 pores nettement visibles... R. crystallina Thalle vert-jaune,  divisions trs nombreuses et profondes, sur la face dorsale grossirement perfor - spongieux. Capsules fortement saillantes. Spores de 62-120 m de diamtre, les alvoles  la face distale irrgulires et incompltement limites (au moins dans la partie centrale), aux intersections des cloisons manquent les tubercules bidents. Aile dpourvue de pores.. R. cavernosa Ces deux espces diffrent non seulement au point de vue morphologique mais aussi de la distribution gographique: R. crystallina semble jusqu'alors mditerranenne, il faut corriger tous les indications de R. crystallina sauf ce territoire - dans le cas douteux la revision du matriel fertile est ncessaire. R. cavernosa est connue dans une grande partie du monde. Chez l'espce R. cavernosa existent deux varits diffrentes par le caractre de la ramification du thalle. La cl suivante montre leurs diffrences: Thalle multiple, toujours clairement dichotome, les ramifications loignes, les individus en rgle gnrale seulement avec une branche du
4181246|Higher syntaxa of the class Asteretea tripolium are reviewed. This class covers plant communities of the Euro-Asian continent on low- and medium-salinized soils with medium moisture conditions where perennial herbaceous plants (hemicryptophytes) of non-succulent character prevail. On the territory of the former USSR and Mongolia, the class Asteretea tripolium is represented by the following orders: Glauco-Puccinellietalia Beeftink et Westhoff in Beeftink 1962, Cirsietalia esculenti Mirkin et V. Golub ex V. Golub ord. novus, Scorzonero-Juncetalia gerardii Vicherek 1973, Halerpestetalia Mirkin et al. ex V. Golub ord. novus, Artemisio santonicae-Limonietalia gmelinii V. Golub et V. Solomakha 1988, Suaedetalia corniculatae V. Golub ord. novus. Superspecies and aggregations of species are used for the diagnosis of higher syntaxa.
4179535| Fr folgende inkorrekte Epitheta schlgt der Autor richtige Namen vor, die in Klammern angefhrt sind: Potentilla opizii Dom. (= P. lindackeri Tausch), P. dealbata Bunge (= P. virgata Lehm.), P. poterioides Franch. (= P. limprichtii J. Krause), P. fulgens Wall. ex Hook. (= P. siemersiana Lehm.), P. labradorica Lehm. (= P. flexuosa Raf.), P. ambigua Camb. (= P. cuneifolia Bertol.), P. anserina ssp. egedii (Wormsk.) Hiit. (= P. anserina ssp. groenlandica Tratt.), P. raddeana (Wolf) Juz. (= P. bertramii Aznav.) und P. bipinnatifida Dougl. ex Hook. (= P. normalis Bess. ex Spreng.). Fr P. nudicaulis Boiss. et Bal., P. eremica Wolf und P. sericata Wolf werden nomina nova verffentlicht. Es werden einige neue Kombinationen angefhrt: P. supina L. ssp. paradoxa (Nutt. ex Torr. et Gray) c.n., P. hispanica Zimm. ssp. oreodoxa (Sojk) c. n. und P. h. ssp. ibrahimiana (Maire) c. n. Strauchige Arten, oft in die Gattung Potentilla eingereiht, betrachtet der Autor als eine selbstndige Gattung Pentaphylloides und in dieser Gattung fhrt er einige neue Kombinationen (5 fr Arten, 4 fr Hybriden) an. 
4179479| Das in der sdtoskanischen Maremma klimatogene Quercetum ilicis wird in regelmssigen Abstnden von etwa 12 Jahren kahlgeschlagen, wodurch tiefgreifende nderungen in der Vegetation entstehen. Es wird in den ersten zwei Jahren ein Massenauftreten von Therophyten beobachtet und bald darauf eine allmhliche Wiederentwicklung des Waldes, die durch Stockausschlge der krftigeren Holzarten zustande kommt. Die hufig auftretenden Brnde bedingen hingegen das Entstehen des Ericeto-Lavanduletum als degradierte Dauergesellschaft. Die vorliegende Arbeit stellt einen Versuch dar, die wichtigsten Momente dieser Sukzession zu beschreiben, u. zw. mit floristischen Angaben und mit der Bearbeitung von Lebensformen, kologischen Synusien, Schichtung, Verbreitungstypen und Polyploidie. /// The Quercetum ilicis galloprovinciale is largely distributed in Southern Toscana and only here and there substituted by the Ericeto-Levanduletum stoechidis or still more rarely by deciduous forests; cultures and permanent meadows do not exist at all. The Quercetum ilicis galloprovinciale (Tab. 1) is here in a special subassociation (arbutetosum) that occurs on moderately acid soils and moist habitats; the subass. pistacietosum largely diffused in the western Mediterranean, has been found only outside the studied zone in the immediate proximity of the coast. The Quercetum ilicis is very seldom found nowadays as a real forest of lofty trees, as it is cut down about every 12 years; the substituting vegetation (Tab. 2) does not form a distinct association. The Ericeto-Lavanduletum (Tab. 3) develops on slopes on which after repeated fires vegetation and soil have been largely impoverished. It constitutes an acidophilous permanent association that consists chiefly of bushes and is represented in the zone by a special chorological subassociation. The substituting vegetation has been studied in its succession and the most important results seem to be the following: 1. The floristic composition shows great fluctuations especially within the first 3 years following the cut; afterwards large amounts of weeds strange to the forest often appear but the species of the Quercetum ilicis remain and become dominant after five to seven years. 2. The number of species consequently augments within the first years from 25 to 60. 3. The most diffused woody plant after the cut is Arbutus unedo and only some years later Quercus ilex becomes completely dominant. 4. The annuals augment very much within the first years (up to 50%), but disappear afterwards gradually. 5. The species that appear after the cutting of the trees possess seeds with very efficient means of dispersal, but in some cases it must be supposed that the seeds had already been present in the soil before the destruction of the forest. 6. During the renewal of the forest the percentage of polyploids augments remarkably. 
4180518| The present study describes communities of flooded sites (Agropyro-Rumicion) on the shores of Rozko reservoir in E. Bohemia. Sources of variation and phases of differentiation of these communities are described. The differentiation of these communities is predominantly determined by the original communities, by gradients of flood-water depth and of soil water content, by the pool of propagules available, and by increasing competition during the ecocycle. The structure of communities was studied by various multivariate methods (cluster analysis, PCA, DCA). Some comments on the methods used are also given. The necessity of studies of community dynamics was stressed as being very important for correct classification. 
4179776|The authors give measurements of osmotic values in 35 Cuban plant species, using the cryoscopic method. Osmotic values of plants correspond relatively well with environmental conditions, but in different species of the same habitat they may be different. The lowest values were found in Cactaceae (-1.6 to -6.2 atm.) and in epiphytic Bromeliaceae (-4.6 to -4.7 atm.), the highest in halophytes: -21 to -56 atm.
4180584|A new association, the Cassio lineatae-Aristidetum neglectae, the only representative of the alliance Cassio lineatae-Aristidion neglectae Bal.-Tul. all. nova is described. The association occurs in the open serpentine areas in Matanzas province, Cuba.
4179550|This paper is devoted to the taxonomy of those species of the genus Echinodorus in which the blades have pellucid lines connected in an irregular network. This concerns Echinodorus longipetalus Mich., E. tunicatus Small and two new species E. horizontalis sp. n. from the Amazone basin and E. glandulosus sp. n. from Brazil. Diagnoses and geographical distribution are presented.
4180409| In the protected landscape region of Jizersk hory mountains and the surrounding region, wet meadow plant communities were studied. A close relationship exists between the distribution of the analyzed communities and environmental properties. Apart from the differences expressed in the reconstruction mapping units, various environmental variables were taken into consideration: height above sea level, geological substratum, climatic regime, inclination, exposition, soil moisture, humus content and quality, content of H
4181470|The development of the taxonomy of the European bramble flora is discussed. Previous taxonomic concepts were mainly (1) description of each different bramble bush as a species of its own, (2) treatment of bramble taxa with hybrid formulas, (3) arranging of bramble taxa as infraspecific taxa within an artificial system, (4) creation of special taxonomic units like "agamospecies". In modern taxonomy only well stabilized apomicts with a regional or wider distribution are taken into consideration and treated as species. Merely locally distributed brambles or the countless individual biotypes (spontaneous hybrids and their derivatives) are no longer a subject of special taxonomic treatment. The research into bramble flora has made considerable progress during the last 25 years, and the species of large parts of Europe are now well known including their distribution which is often illustrated by detailed maps.
4181512|Seed bank species-composition and seed-density were determined in a successional calcareous (alvar) grassland in western Estonia. Three similar study areas were chosen to compare two different successional stages: open alvar grassland and overgrown areas with young pine forest 30 to 40 years old. In both successional stages, the centre and the edge of a relatively uniform stand were examined. Fifteen soil samples (7 cm in diameter, 5 cm deep) were taken from each of twelve sampling sites. The seedling emergence method was used to estimate seeds in the soil samples. A total of 69 species were detected in the seed bank, of which 18 did not occur in the vegetation. Eighty-nine taxa were recorded in the vegetation and of these 38 were not detected in the seed bank. Fifty-one species occurred both in the seed bank and in the vegetation. The three most abundant taxa in the seed bank were Carex tomentosa, Linum catharticum and Plantago media, which together made up 49% of the seedlings recorded. Differences in the species compositions of seed bank samples from grassland and forest sites were negligible, although the species richness per area of the above-ground vegetation was significantly higher in the open grassland. The only species tending to be lost from forest site vegetation but still occurring in the forest soil seed bank were Arenaria serpylifolia, Cerastium fontanum and Linum catharticum. About half of all the emerged species from all samples belonged to the transient or short-term persistent seed bank. In the grassland sites there were more species which belonged to the transient seed bank than in the forest sites, where the seed bank contained more short-term persistent type seeds. The seed density was significantly higher in forest sites and lower in grassland sites, which may be explained by the better germination conditions in well-illuminated communities. On the basis of the current study it might be assumed that the soil seed banks of overgrown alvar grasslands which include young pine forests can play a certain role in grassland restoration management.
4179996| Eine neue Gattung und Species aus Tasmanien wird beschrieben: Conotremopsis weberiana. Im Apothecienbau hat die Art einige Merkmale mit den Arten der Gattungen Conotrema Tuck. und Ramonia Stiz. em. Vzda gemeinsam; von diesen unterscheidet sie sich u. a. durch den fadenfrmigen Thallus mit Trentepohlia-Algen. Ihre fdigen Sporen gehren zu den lngsten, die bisher bei den Flechten beobachtet wurden. /// The new genus and species, Conotremopsis weberiana gen. n. et sp. n., described from Tasmania, is distinguished by the following combination of characters: white, filamentous, woolly thallus with Trentepohlia as phycobiont, elongated keeve-like apothecia at first closed, later opening apically, unbranched paraphyses and cylindrical asci containing unusual long filamentous spores with transverse septa. The structure of the apothecium suggests close affinity to Conotrema Tuck. and Ramonia Stiz. em. Vzda. The genus is systematically intermediate between these two genera. 
4181142|Sixth full report on the series Lichenes selecti exsiccati is given. Contributing collectors, dates of issue, taxa determinations and their corrections, list of recipient herbaria and alphabetical index to taxa are reported.
4180353| The present paper deals with cytotaxonomy of Chelidonium majus L. s. 1. taxa and their hybrids. Based on results of hybridization experiments, cytology and reproductive isolation, a new combination, Ch. asiaticum (Hara) Krahulcov, is proposed. The structure of the aggregate is as follows: Ch. majus L. subsp. majus (2n = 12, distributed in Europe), Ch. majus L. subsp. grandiflorum (DC.) Printz (2n = 12, S. Siberia, China) and Ch. asiaticum (2n = 10, E. Asia). Karyotypes of Ch. m. subsp. grandiflorum and Ch. asiaticum are compared in detail. 
4179533| Der Autor hat im Jahre 1966 den ursprnglichen Fundort von Rosa sancti-Andreae Degen et Trautmann beim Stdtchen Szentendre in Ungarn besucht, wo der Strauch, nach dem die neue Art im Jahre 1924 beschrieben wurde, noch immer wchst. Er studierte auch umfangreiches Herbariummaterial aus dem Umkreise der Verwandtschaft der Art und auf Grund dieser Studien gelangte er zur Ansicht, dass Rosa sancti-Andreae Deg. et Trautm. mit der frher beschriebenen Art Rosa pomifera Herrm. bereinstimmt und daher ihr Synonym ist. /// In 1924 Degen and Trautmann described (in Jvorka 1924) a new species Rosa sancti-Andreae, endemic in Hungary. In the opinion of the authors this species is allied to R. tomentosa Sm. but differs from it by having glands on the margins of petals. Comparative studies of test material showed this sign also often on R. mollis Sm. and especially on R. pomifera Herrm. on individuals from various localities in the whole area. As R. sancti-Andreae conforms to R. pomifera Herrm. in other morphological signs (with R. tomentosa Sm. it is not closely related, however, and not even similar), there is no doubt that Degen's and Trautmann's new taxon is in fact Rosa pomifera Herrm. and that the name Rosa sancti-Andreae Deg. et Trautm. ought to be classed with synonyms of this species. 
4181131| The method of pollen analysis was used to study a profile sample taken from the Jestebsk blato mire, the Doksy District (northern Bohemia). The aim of the palaeobotanical analyses was to perform a reconstruction of vegetation and environment for geobotanical and archaeological research purposes. Sediments dating back to the end of the Late Glacial and to both the Early and Middle Holocene were pollenanalytically studied. The results of the pollen analyses recorded the development of vegetation during the end of the Late Glacial, Preboreal, Boreal and Atlantic Periods. Parkline pine stands of the end of the Late Glacial developed to closed pine forests, during the Preboreal. Even during the Boreal, the dominant pine formed forest communities were typical of the area under study, though trees with greater demands on temperature and moisture conditions continued to penetrate the existing communities. During the Lower and the first half of the Upper Atlantic Period, spruce forests and alder woods formed the dominant forest communities in mire. Nevertheless, Pinus was still dominant on extreme sites (both from the edaphic and geomorphological points of view). An early occurrence of Alnus and Picea is another characteristic feature of the studied area. The conclusions drawn from pollenanalytical results were used for the reconstruction of the past environment of the Mesolithic and Neolithic Ages. /// Die Studie legt die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalyse aus dem Moor Jestebsk blato im Doksy-Gebiet dar. Im Zusammenhang mit der komplexen palobotanischen Forschung in der Tschechoslowakei wurde mit den palobotanischen Analysen auch im erwhnten Gebiet begonnen. Der palobotanischen Untersuchungen der Torfsedimente bediente sich auch die modern aufgefasste archologische Forschung, die in diesem Gebiet eine Besiedlung im Palolithikum, Mesolithikum und im Neolithikum festgestellt hat. Die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalyse des Moores Jestebsk blato ermglichten es, eine Rekonstruktion der Vegetationsentwicklung in der jngeren Dryaszeit, im Prboreal, Boreal und im lteren und jngeren Atlantikum durchzufhren. Fr den Zeitraum des jngeren Abschnittes des Holozns fehlen wegen Abwesenheit des zugehrigen Sediments die ntigen Angaben. In der jngeren Dryaszeit (DR3) war das Doksy-Gebiet mit parkartigen Kiefernbestnden mit der absolut vorherrschenden Art Pinus sylvestris bedeckt. Ungelst ist bis jetzt die Frage des Vorkommens der Art Pinus cembra, deren Pollentyp sporadisch gefunden wurde. In die Bestnde waren die baumartigen Birken und Populus tremula eingestreut; im Unterholz befand sich Juniperus. Von den Pollenfunden, von den pedologischen Bedingungen, von den Lichtverhltnissen und auch von anderen Umstnden kann man auch auf das Vorkommen von Hippophae rhamnoides in der DR3 sowie auf einige andere Komponenten der Krautschicht (Selaginella selaginoides, Botrychium, Helianthemum) direkt im Gebiet schliessen. Die Pflanzendecke des Moores Jestebsk blato wurde in diesem Zeitraum von Flachmoorgesellschaften gebildet. Im Prboreal (PB) setzte sich die Bewaldung des Gebietes mit Kiefernbestnden mit Beimischungen von Gehlzen fort, die schon in der DR3 anwesend waren. Den Pollenfunden nach ist es sehr wahrscheinlich, dass im PB schon auch Alnus wuchs. Im Vergleich zu anderen Gebieten der Tschechoslowakei wrde es sich jedoch um ein verhltnismssig frhes Vorkommen handeln. In der Krautschicht klang in Laufe des PB das Vorkommen von Formationen der sptglazialen "Steppentundra" ab. Am Lager herrschten immer noch Flachmoorwiesen-Gesellschaften vor. Im Boreal (BO) war das Doksy-Gebiet mit Kiefernwldern mit Birke bewaldet. Die Verschlechterung der Lichtverhltnisse fhrte zum Rckgang von Juniperus und Hippophae. Ausser Alnus kam im Gebiet vereinzelt auch Picea vor und sporadisch drangen in diesen Raum Tilia, Ulmus und Quercus ein. Zum Unterschied von etlichen mittelleuropischen Gebieten kam es im Doksy-Gebiet, hnlich wie z.B.- im Becken Tebosk pnev, nicht zur Expansion von Corylus. In die Flachmoorgesellschaften des Moores Jestebsk blato begann im BO auch Alnus einzudringen. Im lteren Atlantikum (AT1) breiteten sich im Doksy-Gebiet Laubgehlze aus, vor allem Tilia und Quercus, weniger dann Ulmus und Corylus. Es kam auch zur heftigen Expansion von Alnus und whrend des jngeren Atlantikums (AT2) auch von Picea. Trotzdem bewahrten an extremen Substraten der Sandsteine und Sande Pinus sylvestris immer noch ihre wichtige Stellung. Das Jestebsk blato war im AT1 von Erlenwldern bewachsen, in die im Laufe AT2 Picea eindrang. Gegen Ende dieser Periode bildeten sich in den Randpartien des Moores wahrscheinlich auch Fichten-Erlenwlder und Moor-Fichtenwlder. Die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen haben bewiesen, dass im Mesolithikum die Doksy-Region vorwiegend von schtteren Kiefernbestnden bewachsen war; die Landschaft war leicht zugnglich, passierbar und bersichtlich. Obgleich es vorlufig nicht gelungen ist, mit Hilfe der Pollenanalyse die Existenz von Seen nachzuweisen - die hier aber hchstwahrscheinlich vorhanden waren -, war diese Region fr die mesolithische Besiedlung geeignet. Im lteren und jngeren Atlantikum war das Untersuchungsgebiet schon ziemlich dicht bewaldet. Das eigentliche Becken Jestebsk kotlina war jedoch wegen der ausgedehnten Smpfe fast berhaupt unzugnglich (Flachmoorgesellschaften, Schilfe, Erlenwlder, Fichten-Erlenwlder). Dieses Gebiet ohne grssere Schwierigkeiten zu passieren war nur dort mglich, wo infolge der edaphischen und geomorphologischen Verhltnisse die Kiefernwlder erhalten geblieben sind und dort, wo Bestnde des Eichenmisch- bzw. Eichen-Kiefernwaldes vorhanden waren. Es fehlen die Angaben ber die Entwicklung der Vegetation in den jngeren Zeitabschnitten, da das Sediment fehlt bzw. zerstrt ist. 
4180462|Nine new Alchemilla species and six new varieties are described in subsect. Euvulgares ser. Subglabrae and subsect. Calicinae. Further, for one species a new name is proposed. The plants published as new mostly come from the higher altitudes of the Slovakian mountains. Problems in the treatment of A. obtusa Bus., A. glabra Neyg., and A. incisa Bus. are discussed.
4181319|Aldrovanda vesiculosa, a critically endangered aquatic carnivorous plant, is a species rapidly vanishing from Europe. A map of its recent European distribution is given. Of its earlier distribution area covering a substantial part of Europe, only a few native sites in Hungary, Poland, Romania, Russia and Ukraine remain. On the basis of the literature, field research in Aldrovanda habitats, and experience of its cultivation both in culture and in the field, its ecological requirements and habitat characteristics are reviewed. The most important requirements appear to be a high CO
4180398| This paper deals with 19 species of foliicolous lichens collected in the summer months of 1977 to 1980 during several excursions to the vicinity of the spas Sochi, Gagra and Sukhumi on the east shores of the Black Sea (part of the Colchis). Some new taxa and one new combination are proposed: Raciborskiella minor Vzda (sp. n.), Porina colchica Vzda (sp. n.), Gyalectidium caucasicum (Elenk. et Woronich.) Vzda (comb. n.), G. colchicum Vzda (sp. n.), Bacidia vasakii Vzda (sp. n.). Taxonomical, ecological and plant geographical notes to all species are given. /// Das fast subtropische Klima und das immergrne Laub verschiedener Gehlze in den von Menschen nur wenig beeinflussten Urwldern in den tiefen Bach- und Flusstlern an der Ostkste des Schwarzen Meeres (Kolchis) ermglichen die berraschende Existenz mehrerer Arten tropischer foliicoler Flechten in einem Gebiet, das von den tropischen und subtropischen Zonen weit entfernt in der gemssigten Zone liegt. Whrend mehrerer Exkursionen in den Sommermonaten 1977-1980 in der weiteren Umgebung der Kurorte Soi, Gagra und Suchumi an der Kste der Kolchis wurden insgesamt 19 blattbewohnende Flechten-Arten entdeckt. Einige von ihnen wurden als species novae erkannt, andere bedurften nherer taxonomischer Untersuchungen. Es sind dies die Arten: Raciborskiella minor (sp. n.), Strigula elegans (Fe) Mll. Arg., S. nitidula Mont., Porina colchica (sp. n.), P. hoehneliana (Jaap) R. Sant., P. oxneri R. Sant., P. rubentior (Stirt.) R. Sant., Echinoplaca epiphylla Fe, Gyalectidium caucasicum (Elenk. et Woronich.) Vzda (comb. n.) G. colchicum (sp. n.), Gyalidea phyllophila Vzda, Bacidia apiahica (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr., B. buxi Vzda et Vivat, B. colchica Vzda, B. vasakii (sp. n.), Byssoloma leucoblepharum (Nyl.) Vain em. R. Sant., B. subdiscordans (Nyl.) P. James, Catillaria bouteillei (Desm.) Zahlbr. und Tapellaria cf. epiphylla (Mll. Arg.) R. Sant. Zu allen Arten werden taxonomische Bemerkungen beigefgt. Von Gyalectidium colchicum werden die schuppenfrmigen Hyphophoren nher behandelt. In ihren Hyphenbscheln befinden sich kleinzellige Algen-Zellen, die die Funktion haben, sich zusammen mit dem Hyphenbschel als Flechtendiaspore zu verbreiten. hnlich gebaute Hyphophoren wurden auch bei G. caucasicum und G. filicinum gefunden: sie stellen ein wichtiges Merkmal fr die Gattungscharakteristik von Gyalectidium dar. Fr Catillaria bouteillei und fr viele andere, meist epiphylle Catillaria-, Bacidia- und Lopadium-Arten mit paraplectenchymatischen Excipula, dnnen, meist verzweigten und anastomosierenden, von der Hymenialgelatine kaum abtrennbaren Paraphysen, und mit an den Septen eingeschnrten Sporen mit verleimten Aussenmembranen, wurde eine neue Gattung Lobaca ad interim vorgeschlagen. Bei dieser Gattung, sowie bei den verwandten Gattungen Tapellaria Mll. Arg. em. R. Sant., Sporopodium Mont. em. R. Sant. und Lasioloma R. Sant. wachsen aus dem Lager spezielle, kompliziert gebaute Conidangien, die von Mller Arg. als Kampylidien bezeichnet wurden, von vielen anderen Autoren aber unrichtig fr Fruchtkrper (Conidiomate) parasitisch oder parasymbiontisch auf dem Flechtenlager lebender Pilze (unter den Namen Pyrenotrichum Mont., Chlorocyphella Speg., Cyphella sp., Acleistomyces Batista et Lima, usw.) gehalten wurden. Eine kurze kologische und phytogeographische Charakteristik aller behandelten Arten wird gegeben. 
4180034|The relationship of water deficit, actual water content, area, water loss and stomatal behaviour in leaves of different insertion levels of three members of Indian arid zone Convolvulaceae - Merremia aegyptia, M. dissecta and Ipomoea pes-caprae were measured simultaneously in the month of May, 1974, when field conditions were extremely adverse for growth. The two former species loose far more water than the latter. The values measured varied considerably with the leaf insertion levels and they reversed in I. pes-caprae when compared with Merremia species.
4180498| A new association Teucrio chamaedrys-Festucetum rupicolae, the origin and development of which are due to specific soil relations on lapis as well as to the character of human activity (deforestation, grazing) in the localities or in their close vicinity, was described from the lapis slopes in the Moravian Karst. The species composition of the phytocoenoses of the association and of the two newly described subassociations (-sedetosum, -typicum) is shown in the phytocoenological table. Due attention is given to the synmorphology, synecology, synchorology, and syngenesis of these units. 
4181519| Recent hybrid speciation events between the diploid Cardamine rivularis and the diploid C. amara leading to the triploid C. insueta were investigated with random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). The hybrid nature of C. insueta was confirmed by the additivity of RAPD markers which discriminate the parent species. An unexpectedly high level of genetic variation within C. insueta argues for several hybridization events and/or backcrossing with C. rivularis. A low number of nonparental bands in C. insueta indicates the younger age of this taxon. In contrast to the situation in C. insueta, low variability was observed in the hexaploid C. schulzii, a derivative species of C. insueta. C. schulzii probably originated recently by a single autopolyploidization event. The higher number of non-parental bands in C. schulzii is explained by the changing genetic variability of the parental populations. Evidence for potential gene flow across the ploidy levels is also provided. 
4179699|Six species of the genus Bactrodesmium M. C. Cooke are described in this paper from Czechoslovakia: B. betulicola M.B. Ellis, B. obovatum (Oudemans) M.B. Ellis, B. spilomeum (Berk. et Br.) Mason et Hughes including three new species B. globosum Hol.-Jech., B. pyriforme Hol.-Jech. and B. submoniliforme Hol.-Jech.
4180440|The alpine zones of Ladakh are floristically and geobotanically very interesting. In the past these were poorly known botanically because of the ruggedness and inaccessibility of the area. The varied climatic conditions and habitat types have a main role to play in establishing the vegetation of these zones. A total of 122 taxa were identified from collections made during the summer months (July, August and September) of the year 1976. These areas fall in an altitudinal range of 4000 to 5000 m. Fifteen taxa are reported as new records for this region. Six different habitat types were recognised on the basis of local distribution of these taxa, viz. 1. Rocky and gravelly sites; 2. Alkaline swamps; 3. Silty and clay sites; 4. Stream sites; 5. Meadow and shrub fields and 6. Cultivated field sites. A comprehensive inventory of the flowering plants of this region is given in the paper.
4181549| A revision was undertaken of the high-rank syntaxa of the vegetation occurring in rock fissures, ledges and screes of mainland Greece and Crete. All published phytosociological relevs available were collected and subjected to numerical classification and ordination. Four orders (Androsacetalia vandelii, Onosmetalia frutescentis, Potentilletalia speciosae and Petromaruletalia pinnatae) comprising 8 alliances (one of them new) were distinguished within the Asplenietea trichomanis (rock fissures, clefts, and ledges). The scree vegetation was classified partly within the Thlaspietea rotundifolii (Drypidetalia spinosae with 2 alliances) and partly within the Daphno-Festucetea (Saturejo-Scutellarietalia - a new order, with 2 alliances). Ordination revealed clear differences in floristic composition of the alliances distinguished. The studied chasmophytic vegetation of Greece contains a very high proportion of endemics which serve as diagnostic species of the syntaxa. Further, an analysis of chorological species spectra suggested that the chorological homogeneity of a syntaxon should be considered an important diagnostic feature at high-syntaxon levels. 
4179873|The seeds of Merremia aegyptia are indifferent to light conditions for germination, which becomes 100% in the first 24 hrs. On the contrary, in M. dissecta the highest percentage was found in red light within the first 24 hrs. This difference was lost later on except in far-red. The seedling growth of the two species was least in blue and red lights, respectively. However, the growth of hypocotyl in the former species was faster than the latter.
4181422| Seasonal dynamics of total nonstructural carbohydrates (TNC) and of carbohydrate species (starch, sucrose, glucose, fructose) were followed in rhizomes of Phragmites australis at two sites of the Tebo Biosphere Reserve (Czech Republic): Brann sand pit and Romberk fishpond-western shore, which were classified (according to plant species composition and phosphorus availability) as oligotrophic and hyper-eutrophic, respectively. Phragmites stands at these sites were expanding and retreating, respectively. Rhizomes were sampled within terrestrial parts of the reed stands (at a water depth of about 10 cm). The levels of total non-structural carbohydrates were determined mainly by levels of starch and sucrose, while glucose and fructose were present at comparatively low levels. The most conspicuous differences between the sites were associated with autumnal and March levels of carbohydrates. In March, i.e. at the beginning of vegetative development, TNC and starch levels were lower at the hyper-eutrophic, as compared with the oligotrophic, site. Starch and TNC levels fell from August to September at the hyper-eutrophic, but not at the oligotrophic, site. At the low water depth investigated, the differences between stands in carbohydrate levels do not seem to be large enough to account solely for their different vigour. It is suggested that the effect of water depth needs to be evaluated in more detail. 
4179451| In Sdwestbhmen kommen auf sauren Silikatgesteinen, bereits ausserhalb des Migrations-stromes thermophiler Arten, auf Sdhngen azidophile Trockenrasengesellschaften vor. Diese Gesellschaften wurden als neue Assoziationen beschrieben: Polytricho (pilifero)-Scleranthetum perennis, Cerastio (arvensi)-Agrostetum pusillae und Veronico (vernae)-Poetum bulbosae. Die Bodenbedingungen dieser Assoziationen wurden charakterisiert, ihre syngenetische Bedeutung und Aufgabe bei der Bodenentwicklung definiert. Gleichzeitig wurde die Bodenentwicklungsreihe vom Protoranker ber braunen Ranker, Braunerde-Ranker und Ranker-Braunerde zur oligotrophen Braunerde beschrieben. Das Polytricho-Scleranthetum und das Cerastio-Agrostetum wurden in den neuen Verband Hyperico (perforato)-Scleranthion perennis, das Veronico-Poetum bulbosae in den Verband Veronicion eingereiht. Diese Verbnde wurden in die neugefasste Ordnung Trifolio (arvensi)-Festucetalia ovinae der Klasse Sedo-Scleranthetea eingereiht. /// On the acid crystallic siliceous rocks of the Bohemian Massive in the district of the acidophilous oak forest of the alliance Quercion robori-sessiliflorae, in the territory of the middle part of the Otava river in southwestern Bohemia, the following acidophilous xerophilous grassland communities were described: Polytricho (pilifero)-Scleranthetum perennis on soils of the braun ranker, Carastio (arvensi)-Agrostetum pusillae on soils of the braunerde-ranker and ranker-braunnerde, Veronico (vernae)-Poetum bulbosae on soils of these associations with more or less disturbed surface. These associations are bound to southern slopes at altitudes of about 380-530 m. above sea level. The Polytricho-Scleranthetum differs from the Cerastio-Agrostetum ecologically primarily in the depth of the soil profile (Polytricho-Sceleranthetum ca 10-15 cm., Cerastio-Agrostetum ca. 30-60 cm.). The chemical properties of the soils of both associations are very similar. The soils have a low exchange capacity, a low reserve of exchangeable calcium, magnesium and potassium, and are unsaturated. A higher content of humus and also a higher content of exchangeable calcium occurs in the uppermost layer of the soil profile only. The similarity of the chemical properties of the soil of both associations resulted in little difference in the qualitative floristic composition (especially of the herb layer) of the associations under consideration; they differ mainly in the quantity of each species and the consequent different synmorphology. All the associations described occur in territory which is not reached by the migration-stream of thermophilous species penetrating from central Bohemia up the stream along the Vltava and Otava rivers. Therefore widely distributed species that can be considered only as "xerophilous" predominate in the species lists of these associations; the more thermophilous species are mostly missing. The Polytricho-Scleranthetum and the Cerastio-Agrostetum are stages of the succession series starting from initial association of vascular plants - the Asplenietum septentrionalis occupying the crevices and ledges of siliceous rocks-and continuing through the Polytricho-Scleranthetum and Cerastio-Agrostetum to communities that occupy deep mature soil. This succession is conditioned by the parallel soil development and itself influences the soil development in turn. On crystallic siliceous rocks soil development starts with the protoranker of the Asplenietum septentrionalis and continues with the braun ranker of the Polytricho-Scleranthetum to the braunerde-ranker and further to the ranker-braunerde of the Cerastio-Agrostetum. This soil development would end in the oligotrophic (or mesotrophic) braunerde that represents the climax soil type in these altitudes. To this soil type acidophilous oak forest of the Quercion robori-sessiliflorae would correspond as the climax vegetation. The soil development is seen primarily in the deepening of the soil profile and its morphological differentiation. Changes in the chemical properties of soil are seen in increased exchangeable calcium especially in the upper part of the A-horizon. The succession series described can be considered as primary only in its first stages-Asplenietum septentrionalis and Polytricho-Scleranthetum. The Cerastio-Agrostetum is without doubt a secondary plant community protected against the invasion of woods by man's activity. The Veronico-Poetum can be considered even as a tertiary plant community replacing the Polytricho-Scleranthetum and the secondary Cerastio-Agrostetum on soils with  disturbed surface as the initial stage of a subseries. In deciding the position of the associations described in the phytocenological system the existing systems of different authors were discussed, including on the one hand plant communities of shallow soils in solid rocks and on the other hand plant communities of consolidated or even wind-blown sands. For each plant community unit the validity of its publication was verified and its correct name was established. For classification of the Polytricho-Sceranthetum and the Cerastio-Agrostetum a new alliance -the Hyperico (perforato)-Scleranthion perennis was proprosed. The Veronico-Poetum bulbosae was classified in the alliance Veronicion. Both these alliances were arranged in a new order-the Trifolio (arvensi)-Festucetalia ovinae of the class Sedo-Scleranthetea. A new classification within the Sedo-Scleranthetea was proposed. 
4181201|Grasslands were phytosociologically studied in the lowlands of North Korea. They are represented mainly by lawns in parks and recreation centres. Two new plant communities were distinguished: the association Digitario ciliaris-Zoysietum japonicae with many species of the C
4180799| The vertical structure of pioneer and stabilized mediterranean sand vegetation at Doana National Park has been compared using a non destructive method based on organ frequency analysis. Vertical distribution of organ frequencies and light intensity through the canopy, leaf chlorophyll content, leaf area index, organ biomass, are also discussed for Artemisia campestris subsp. maritima, Scrophularia frutescens, Halimium halimifolium, and Cistus salvifolius. 
4180843| In some collections from the Neotropics ten species of the foliicolous lichen genus Mazosia Mass. (Opegraphaceae) were found. Two of these are described as new taxa: Mazosia pilosa sp. n. and Mazosia pseudobambusae sp. n. A key to all neotropical species is presented and new localities for all of them are reported. /// Die Gattung Mazosia (Opegraphaceae) wurde eingehend in der Monographie von Santesson (1952) taxonomisch bearbeitet. Mit deren Hilfe konnten die Verfasser die relativ reichen epiphyllen Flechtensammlungen bestimmen, die grsstenteils vom jngeren Autor (K. K.) im tropischen Amerika selbst gesammelt, teilweise auch von mehreren Fachkollegen den Autoren zur Verfgung gestellt worden sind. Es konnten viele neue Fundorte von schon frher bekannten Arten festgestellt werden, die hier als Ergnzung zu den Verbreitungsangaben von Santessons Monographie mitgeteilt werden. Im vorliegenden Material wurden auch zwei Arten gefunden, die sich mit keiner der bisher bekannten identifizieren liessen. Sie sind als neue Arten beschrieben: Mazosia pilosa Kalb et Vzda sp. n., mit fr die Gattung ungewhnlichem, haarborstigem Lager und Mazosia pseudobambusae Kalb et Vzda sp. n., die sich durch farblosen Inhalt der Lagerwarzen von der nahe verwandten M. bambusae unterscheidet. Schliesslich wird ein Bestimmungsschlssel aller zehn bislang aus der Neotropis bekannten Mazosia-Arten vorgelegt. 
4179482| Im ersten Teil dieser Arbeit werden die Studienergebnisse ber die Verbreitung einzelner Arten der Gattung Bidens aus den Jahren 1962-1965 angefhrt. Im zweiten Teil werden die Wege sowie die Art und Weise veranschaulicht, wie sich die adventiven Arten der Gattung Bidens in Mitteleuropa verbreiteten. /// In the years 1962-1966 the author carried out research on the distribution of species of Bidens in Czechoslovakian streams and ponds. Bidens frondosus and Bidens radiatus were mapped throughout the country; Bidens cernuus only in Slovakia, because it has a very wide distribution in lowlands and in the submontane belt all over Bohemia and Moravia; Bidens tripartitus was not mapped at all for the same reason. The distribution of Bidens radiatus in Bohemia and Moravia is correlated with the phytogeographical districts. Most of the localities belong to the oligotrophic and mesotrophic substrata of Hercynicum. The centre of the area in the Hercynicum are the ponds of Tebo and Budjovice, as it is a species mainly of stagnant waters. Most of the Pannonicum localities are in Subpannonic districts; only one locality belongs to the Eupannonicum: in Mlnsk pond in southern Moravia. The species is lacking in Slovakia. Bidens frondosus probably started to spread in Czechoslovakia at the beginning of this century. In many districts of Bohemia it is now a common species. It penetrated to Slovakia later and it is still not widespread. Bidens cernuus is relatively common in lowlands and the submontane belt in Bohemia and Moravia; the optimum is to be found in springs. It is lacking in some lower parts of the Slovakien streams, probably due to hydrological conditions (high water in summer, the form of the river bed etc.). This problem should be followed up. Bidens connatus at present occurs in Czechoslovakia in one locality only-Karvin in Silesia (the river Stonvka); it has not been previously indicated in Czechoslovakia in other localities. Ephemeric occurrence of this species is known not only in secondary localities, but also in autochtonic occurrence. Simultaneously with the distribution some ecological problems of the species were studied. The reason why the adventitious species Bidens frondosus has proved stronger than Bidens tripartitus was established. Bidens frondosus germinates 7-10 days earlier than Bidens tripartitus. While Bidens tripartitus has only developed cotyledons, the second species has already 2 pairs of normal leaves. This advantage seems to be the main reason why Bidens frondosus prevailed over the indigenous species. When Bidens pilosus was cultivated in our experimental garden at Prhonice in the years 1963, 1964 and 1966, it has been found that germination takes place already in autumn; this leads to the extermination of young plants by frost, as they are not hardy. This species cannot be easily naturalized under the climatic conditions of Central Europe. All the species studied need places with relatively high amount of water in the soil at the germination time. Bidens radiatus and Bidens cernuus can only grow under terrestrical conditions for a short time. Bidens frondosus B. connatus and B. tripartitus grow on dry soil and fruit very well there in the later development phases. If we remember that Bidens frondosus was found by Krocker in 1777 on the river Odra (Oder) at Wrocaw, and that there existed several old canals connecting the river Odra and Labe (Elbe) with the river Wisa (Vistula), we can conclude that these three rivers need not be the isolated ways the adventitious species spread. The history of the spreading of adventitious species of the genus Bidens in Central Europe has three stages. In the first the species came to Europe, probably by synagestochory. In the second they spread mainly by nautohydrochory down streams and by epizoochory (endozoochory or synagestochory) up streams. In the third stage the species started to spread by means of epizoochory, endozoochory and synagestochory beyond the stream banks. 
4181464|Intraspecific variation of four agamospecies of Hieracium sect. Alpina was studied using RAPD and isozyme techniques. No variation in either multiprimer RAPD or multi-enzyme phenotypes was observed within H. holosericeum, suggesting that this widespread species consists of only a single genotype. A low level of within-population isozyme variation was seen in H. tenuifrons and H. calenduliflorum, the origin of which appears to be consistent with somatic mutation. Most isozyme and all RAPD variation in these two species was partitioned between populations. A strong correlation with geography suggests that its cause may be due to polytopic (=polyphyletic?) origin or perhaps to mutation and dispersal. The most variable species was H. alpinum, in which isozyme variation occurred mostly within populations rather than between them, suggesting occasional sexual events or that the parents of H. alpinum were heterozygous. RAPD variation in this species, in contrast, was partitioned between Scottish and Swiss populations, suggesting the existence of geographical races.
4179803| Die fnfte Studie aus der Serie der vorbereiteten Studien ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) ist den Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. gewidmet, die in Afrika und auf den benachbarten Inseln (Makaronesien, Kerguelen, Marion-I. u. a.) vorkommen. Im genannten Gebiet wurden 16 Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. festgestellt. Die Arten J. (P.) balfourii sp. nova, J. (P.) dusenii (Steph.) Steph., J. (P.) onraedtii sp. nova, J. (P.) renauldii Steph., J. (S.) abyssinica Nees, J. (S.) perloi (Gola) Va, J. (S.) borgenii Gott., J. (S.) coniflora Schiffn. und J. (S.) mildbraedii Steph. sind taxonomisch eingehend bearbeitet, die verbliebenen 7 Arten mit dem Verbreitungszentrum in anderen Gebieten (J. atrovirens Dum., J. leiantha Grolle und J. pumila With.) wurden bereits in frheren Studien oder werden in weiteren bearbeitet (J. gracillima Sm., J. hyalina Lyell, J. obovata Nees und J. sphaerocarpa Hook.). Die anderen aus dem Gebiet von Afrika bekannten Arten sind mit den oben erwhnten synonymisiert oder zu anderen Gattungen gestellt. Die Arten J. (P.) balfourii sp. nova und J. (P.) onraedtii sp. nova wurden neu beschrieben, die Neukombination Lophozia tristaniana (S. Arnell) comb. nova wurde vorgeschlagen. /// This fifth study of the Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys to the African species of Jungermannia L. emend. Dum., based on sterile and fertile plants. 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, type, material examined and exsiccata of eight African species of the subgenera Plectocolea and Solenostoma. There are also notes on the ecology, geographical distribution, variability, taxonomy and relationships of these taxa. 3. A list of species belonging to other genera. Taxonomically, J. (P.) balfourii Va, J. (P.) dusenii (Steph.) Steph., J. (P.) onraedtii Va, J. (P.) renauldii Steph., J. (S.) abyssinica Nees, J. (S.) perloi (Gola) Va, J. (S.) borgenii Gott., J. (S.) coniflora Schiffn. and J. (S.) mildbraedii Steph. are shown to be good species. Other taxa proved to be habitat modifications or are referred to the synonymy. 
4180087| Der Beitrag bringt Resultate syntaxonomisch-synkologischer Forschungen planarer Erlen-Eschenwlder (Pruno-Fraxinetum Oberd. 1953), die Gleybden mit langsam bewegtem Grundwasser bestocken. Im westlichen Teil der Tschechoslowakei wurden drei Subassoziationen unterschieden: 1. Pruno-Fraxinetum filipenduletosum Mik. 1963 - der feuchteste Flgel der Assoziation auf Nassgley mit hochanstehendem Grundwasser, 2. Pruno-Fraxinetum typicum Oberd. 1957 - die vorherrschende Ausbildung der Assoziation auf von Zeit zu Zeit oberflchlich schwach abtrocknendem Braunerde- oder typischem Gley, 3. Pruno-Fraxinetum listeretosum Mik. 1963 auf karbonathaltigen Gleybden im Kontakt mit Eichen-Hainbuchenwldern. /// This paper includes the results of phytocoenological and ecological research into Pruno-Fraxinetum Oberdorfer 1953 in the Czech Lands. This association represents lowland alder-ash alluvial forest, occuring on gley soils with slowly moving groundwater. In the area studied three subassociations were distinguished: 1. Pruno-Fraxinetum filipenduletosum Mikyka 1963 (differential species: Filipendula ulmaria, Carex acutiformis, Caltha palustris ssp. palustris, Iris pseudacorus, Lycopus europaeus, Ribes nigrum, Carex elongata, C. rostrata, Scutellaria galericulata, Lythrum salicaria bzw. Calliergon cordifolium and Climacium dendroides) - the most hygrophilous form of the association on nassgleys (rarely typical gleys) with high groundwater. The yearly flooded soils are wet to temporarily water-logged, in the dry season moist. 2. Pruno-Fraxinetum typicum Oberdorfer 1957 (lacking differential species) - the most distributed form of the association occuring on braunerde-gleys or typical gleys on the periphery of large alluvial plains, with relatively deep groundwater, not yet inondated. In sommer the soils become dry a little on the surface. 3. Pruno-Fraxinetum listeretosum Mikyka 1963 (differential species: Listera ovata, Arum maculatum, Acer pseudoplatanus, localy also Cornus sanguinea, Daphne mezereum event. Tilia platyphyllos, Galium schultesii, Isopyrum thalictroides, Viola mirabilis) - a community occuring on gley soils (typical, braunerde- or anmoor-gleys) in contact with oak-hornbeam forests. The geographical distribution and an economic evaluation of Pruno-Fraxinetum is discussed and a brief comparison is made with analogous Middle European alluvial forests. 
4179450| Die azidophilen Ginster-Traubeneichenwlder, die als Dauerstadien der Sukzession auf Quarziten im Tribe-Gebirge in der Westslowakei verbreitet sind, gehren systematisch zur Assoziation Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae Zlyomi, Jakucs, Fekete in Zlyomi et Jakucs 1957. Diese Assoziation zerfllt in zwei Subassoziationen, die sich durch phytoznologische Zusammensetzung und durch verschiedene kologie interscheiden: Subass. quercetosum und Subass. fagetosum. Die beschriebene Assoziation ist auf flachgrndigen, stark saueren Bden verbreitet, die bodentypologisch zu oligotrophen Rankern oder Ranker-Braunerden gehren. /// The paper summarizes the results of phytocoenological and ecological studies of acidophilous oak forests on quarzites in the Tribe Mountains in western Slovakia. As regards the phytocoenological system, the oak forests described belong to the association Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae Zlyomi, jakucs, Fekete in Zlyomi et Jakucs 1957. They are distributed on shallow, strongly acid soils poor in nutrients that typologically may be classified in most cases as the grey rankers or ranker brown soils. On the investigated territory the above mentioned association occurs in two subassociations: the drier - quercetosum and the moister - fagetosum, differing in their phytocoenological composition and different ecology of habitat, i.e. by distribution at different altitudes and exposures. In comparison with the stands of Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae described in Hungary, our association represents a "western edge variant" of this association which is characterized by a considerable reduction of xerophilous and thermophilous species of the Quercion pubescenti-petrae alliance and viceversa, by the presence of species of subatlantic tendencies. 
4180819|A total of 112 species in 18 genera in the Portulacaceae were investigated anatomically for the presence or absence of the chlorenchymatous bundle sheath cells around the vascular bundles: C4 or Kranz anatomy. Twenty species in only one genus, Portulaca L. of all the taxa investigated possesses the C4 or Kranz anatomy. All others have the C3 anatomy.
4179472| The chromosome number of A. thaliana from three localities in Central Bohemia was found to be 2n = 10. All the chromosomes (length 1,5-2,6 m) belong to the atelocentric type, four pairs (m) having the centromere in the median and one pair (sm) in the submedian region. In connection with the discussion on the origin of H. suecica the author presents the following preliminary results: a) the failure to cross the tetraploid Cardaminopsis arenosa (L.) Hayek with A. thaliana; b) the successful crossing of the diploid C. petraea (L.) Hiit. with A. thaliana; c) the discovery of a diploid population of C. arenosa (2n = 16) in the Tatra Mts. (Czechoslovakia). 
4179609| Caricetum gracilis Almquist 1929 ist eine Assoziation mit ausgedehnter eurosibirischer Verbreitung, es bewahrt sich jedoch in seinem ganzen Areal eine mehr oder weniger konstante znotische Zusammensetzung, die durch das Grundmerkmal - die Anwesenheit von Carex gracilis als Dominante (Kondominante) und difikator, bedingt ist. Als ausschlaggebender Faktor fr die Entstehung der Gesellschaft kommt der Wasserhaushalt mit charakteristischer Abwechslung der berschwemmungen und Austrocknungen zur Geltung. Die geographischen, klimatischen und bodenkologischen Unterschiede der Standorte ermglichen eine weitere Gliederung der Assoziation in Caricetum gracilis Subass. typicum mit grsstem Verbreitungsgebiet, die in drei Varianten zerfllt, weiter in Caricetum gracilis comaretosum, dessen Areal an nrdliche Teile Mittel- und Osteuropas gebunden ist und das in zwei Varianten zerfllt, und schliesslich in Caricetum gracilis naumburgietosum, das vor allem an das Herzynische Gebiet und den Nordrand der Karpaten gebunden ist. /// In the present paper a survey of existing knowledge of the association Caricetum gracilis Almquist 1929 (= Caricetum gracilis Graebner et Hueck 1931) is given and an evaluation based upon the author's investigation of this association carried out. From studies of Caricetum gracilis throughout Europe it is evident that the prevalent majority of stands of this association represent a substitute community of natural forest communities of the alliance Alnion glutinosae or Alno-Padion; it occurs most frequently and best developed in the inundated parts of broader valleys. Sporadically only, and over a small area, Caricetum gracilis represents the primary community of the filling-in series of stagnant or very sluggish waters. The decisive factor for the rise and perseverance of Caricetum gracilis is the rhythm of the water regime of the habitat, characterized by flood alteration (especially in the springtime) and by at least temporary or longer-term sinking of water under the soil surface during the second half of the vegetation season. If the water regime (and therefore also that of the air) is convenient, the rise of the association is further dependent upon the nutritive conditions of the soil (the enrichement of soil through turbid flood water plays an important role here). The soil type is mostly anmoor (mainly the subtype warp anmoor in the northern part of the distribution area also the subtype peat anmoor). The community only occurs on other soil types in limiting cases - in the initial stages in the filling-in series (fen) or after drainage (gley). The essential feature of the association is the function of Carex gracilis (only one characteristic species) not only as dominant or condominant, but also as the building-up species (edificator), by which the other characters of the cenosis are to a considerable degree determined. Furthermore, in the building-up the community it is mainly the species of superior units or of other parallel units of the class Phragmiti-Magnocaricetea which take part; frequently species of units belonging to the classes Molinio-Arrhenatheretea and Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae and to the alliance Agropyro-Rumicion crispi also take part. The participation of mosses is variable and for the existence of association is not very significant. Monospecific stands of Carex gracilis alone (although this sedge may be very vital in them) are not a typical form of the community and usually represent only a temporary phase. Variable dynamics, regarding both the quantitative and often also the qualitative composition of the community are indeed characteristic of the association and result from its substantial dependence on the changeable conditions of the habitat. On the other hand, however, the community is very resistant against disturbing interferences (temporary changes of habitat); it bears unfavourable conditions for years (though in changed phases) without being destroyed. The association is distributed mainly in the temperate zone of Central and Eastern Europe (perhaps in Siberia, too). Its distribution maximum as well as the most varied differentiation are to be found in the northern part of Central Europe and probably also in the forest zone of Eastern Europe. In the more southern, i.e. more arid regions it is bound more strictly to those parts of larger river valleys which are flooded for long periods. When the syntaxonomical position of this association and its sub-units was dealt with, only those characters were taken into consideration as classification criteria, which are most essential at the respective level. When defining the association on the basis of the building-up position of Carex gracilis, the author started from the assumption that the position of Carex gracilis as edificator is a constant character by which the variability of the cenosis is at the same time limited to a high degree. The differences in the participation of species belonging to various specific groups (by which mainly the deviations of the water and nutrition regime as well as of the climatic and geographic conditions are indicated) make it possible to distinguish several sub-units. The fundamental subassociation - obviously widespread all over the distribution area of the association - is subass. typicum Uhlig 1938 em. Blakov, without special differential species. This subassociation is mainly bound to mineral soils of inundated sites. Within the scope of the subassociation three variants have been distinguished by the author: var. typicum, which is characterized by the lowest number of species and occurs in the moistest sites; var. with Festuca pratensis, which is characterized by a group of differential species belonging to units of the class Molinio-Arrhenatheretea and is bound to more drying-up habitats; and var. with Gratiola officinalis, which represents a Pannonian-Illyrian geographical race and differs - besides the differential species which are all very little constant - also by a slightly shifted ratio of species belonging to individual cenotic groups. The subass. comaretosum Passarge 1955 possesses as differential species mainly the characteristic and differential species of the alliance Magnocaricion (= Caricion rostratae Bal-Tul. 1962). Conspicuous is also the higher total share of species belonging to the units of the class Scheuchzerio-Caricetea fuscae. The subassociation divides into var. comaretosum (= typicum), without any differential species, and into var. with Ranunculus repens, which to a certain degree bears resemblance to subass. typicum. A new subass. naumburgietosum has been described. The differential species group of which resembles that of subass. comaretosum, but in the floristic respect it differs quantitatively - by a different ratio of differential species as well as by a different ratio of participation of species belonging to individual cenotic groups. In denominating the units priority rules have been observed, however, some names used in the literature are synonyms, or the units designated by them have been included in units denominated before. At the end of this paper the economic evaluation of the stands of the Caricetum gracilis has been carried out and ways of most productive exploitation and amelioration have been suggested. 
4179790| Die vierte Studie aus der Serie vorbereiteter Studien ber die Subfam. Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) enthlt die allgemeine Charakteristik (Synonymik, Beschreibung, Sektionsschlssel und kurze Charakteristik der Sektionen) des Subg. Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. und des Subg. Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. Beide Subgenera sind artenreich; die Arten werden in folgenden Studien aus rein praktischen Grnden nach den geographischen Gebieten bearbeitet. Diese Studie ist den sd- und mittelamerikanischen Arten gewidmet; im genannten Gebiet wurden 4 Arten des Subg. Plectocolea und 4 Arten des Subg. Solenostoma festgestellt. Die Arten J. (S.) amoena Lindenb. et Gott., J. (P.) callithrix Lindenb. et Gott., J. (S.) crassula Nees et Mont., J. (P.) decolor Schiffn. und J. (S.) linguifolia Gott. sind taxonomisch eingehend bearbeitet; die verbliebenen 3 Arten mit dem Verbreitungszentrum in anderen Gebieten sollen in den nchsten Studien bearbeitet werden. Die anderen aus dem Gebiet von Sd- und Mittelamerika angegebenen Arten wurden mit den obenerwhnten Arten synonymisiert oder zu anderen Gattungen gestellt. Zwei neue Kombinationen wurden vorgeschlagen, u. zw. Kymatocalyx cubensis (Gott.) Va comb. nova und Gongylanthus limbatus (Herz.) Grolle et Va comb. nova; Jungermannia Subg. Solenostoma Sect. Luridopsis Va sect. nova wurde beschrieben. /// This fourth study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Synonymy, description, keys to section and brief notes on the sections of the subgenera Plectocolea (Mitt.) Amak. and Solenostoma (Mitt.) Amak. of the genus Jungermannia. 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, type and exsiccata of five Central and South American species of the subgenera Plectocolea and Solenostoma. There are also notes on ecology, geographical distribution, taxonomy, variability and relationships of these taxa. 3. A list of species belonging to other genera. Taxonomically J. (P.) decolor Schiffn., J. (P.) callithrix Lindenb. et Gott., J. (S.) amoena Lindenb. et Gott., J. (S.) crassula Nees et Mont. and J. (S.) linguifolia Gott. are treated as good species. Many other taxa are considered to be habitat modifications. The keys include all South and Central American species. 
4181002|Aerial photography with a balloon-suspended camera is a suitable tool for surveying aquatic vegetation and for measuring water movements. Examples from the lake Lunzer Untersee (Austria) are given.
4179924|In this paper the Theory of Biological Equilibrium (TBE), as the theoretical basis of the Canonical Hypothesis, is used to compute a set of theoretical parameters of natural ecosystems. These parameters are the individuals: species (I/S); the commonness: rarity (C/U) ratio, as well as the expected density
4181247|The method and preliminary results of a simple morphoanatomical survey combined with field studies of the populations as some species of Vellozia from Brazil are presented and briefly discussed.
4180367|The following bioclimatological characteristics were measured on differently aged successional stages of abandoned fields: temperature on soil surface under snow layer, and depth of frozen soil in period of culminating frosts, daily course of temperature in top soil layer; maximum temperature in top soil layer during first half of June. Results are compared with general assumptions about the development of abiotic factors during succession and discussed from the point of view of the ecological theory of stability.
4181305| This study presents results of a three and a half year experiment in a calcareous grassland on the Baltic island of land, south-eastern Sweden. Environmental conditions, viz. nutrient regime, water availability, light conditions and grazing pressure were changed in a randomised experimental design with ten different combinations of these factors, including a control. Weather conditions during the study period fluctuated considerably. Only the combination of reduced light and increased soil nutrient availability decreased species richness significantly, presumably by inducing asymmetric competition for light by competitively strong species. Physical space also became less available for weaker competitors. In cases where only nutrients or only water were supplied in sufficient amounts, competitive exclusion was inhibited by either low nutrient or low water availability. Under conditions which combined high levels of nutrient and water supply with regular disturbance (i.e. simulated grazing) high species richness was maintained. Although there was a significant negative correlation between species richness and amount of above-ground biomass, the number of species was not significantly reduced in the treatment which combined fertilisation and irrigation. One reason for this may be that the heterogeneous light regime in this treatment still allowed species persistence and coexistence. 
4181271| We present a literature survey of studies using molecular markers to investigate genet diversity and structure in clonal plants. The data from 40 studies comprised 45 species of which only two were studied by DNA methods, the rest by isozyme markers. Less than one third of the studies provided information about the spatial distribution of individual genets within populations, and only 12.5% of the studies used mapping of all ramets within plots or part of the population in combination with identification of multilocus genotypes. We also present two case studies. In Glechoma hederacea morphological criteria were used to select clones. Multi-samples of ramets within these "clones" turned out to be variable using isozymes indicating that these "clones" in most cases consisted of several genets. One individual multilocus genotype covered tens of square metres. In Hylocomium splendens samples from 10  10 cm plots usually consisted of a mixture of multilocus genotypes, but occasionally the whole plot consisted of one genet. 
4180562|203 species of Lycopodium are reclassified to Huperzia and new nomenclatural combinations are proposed for them. Huperzia Bernh. 1801 is accepted in a broad circumscription, i.e. including Phlegmariurus (Herter) Holub 1964. New nomenclatural combinations are also proposed for 19 species of Lycopodium transferred to the following generic segregates: Diphasium (5), Lycopodiella (1), Palhinhaea (11) and Pseudolycopodiella (2).
4180295| The chorology and ecology of Sisymbrium volgense Bieb. ex E. Fourn. in Czechoslovakia is reviewed. There are also brief data on the history of the spread and ecology in other countries. A list of localities in Czechoslovakia and a distribution map is provided. /// Sisymbrium volgense Bieb. ex E. Fourn. wurde zum erstenmal in der Tschechoslowakei im Jahre 1960 in Pardubice festgestellt. Im J. 1980 waren in unserem Gebiet schon 51 Lokalitten in der planaren und kollinen (-submontanen) Stufe bekannt (Fig. 2) Die Art kommt besonders auf Eisenbahnhfen (28 Lokalitten) auf freier Strecke (6 Lokalitten) und bei Getreidemhlen, Getreidelagern und Getreideumladepltzen (6 lokalitten) vor; auf einer bis vier Lokalitten ist sie aus Flusshfen, stdtischen Strassen, Schuttpltzen und einem Teichufer bei der Entenfarm bekannt. Fast alle Lokalitten in der Tschechoslowakei verdanken ihren Ursprung der Einschleppung von Diasporen mit sowjetischem Konsumweizen (cf. Fig. 1). Ausnahmsweise wurde S. volgense wahrscheinlich mit Futtergetreide (UdSSR) oder mit der Saatgut (UdSSR) eingeschleppt. S. volgense ist bei uns eine charakteristische Art des Ostweges der Adventiven. Fast auf allen Lokalitten ist sie ausdauernd und breitet sich weiter aus, u. zw. nicht nur vegetativ, sondern auch generativ, besonders in wrmeren Gebieten. Die Art kommt bei uns bisher nur als Epoekophyt vor. Sie wurde Dank ihrer biologischen Eingeschaften unter Quarantnunkruter eingereiht. Zum Vergleich werden auch kurze Angaben ber die Chorologie und kologie der S. volgense im Ausland beigeschlossen. Die Mehrheit der Lokalitten im Gebiet des sekundren Areals verdankt ihren Ursprung vor allem der Einschleppung der Diaporen mit eingefhrten sowjetischen Getreide. Ausser der UdSSR, wo die Art in Steppen im Sdosten des europischen Teiles einheimsich ist und wo sie in Europa auch ausser dem Gebiet ihres ursprnglichen Areals verbreitet ist, wurde sie vom J. 1880 in 12 europischen Lnderen verzeichnet. Ausser Europa ist sie bisher nur aus dem Fernen Osten der UdSSR bekannt. Nach Angaben aus den europischen Lndern verhlt sie sich expansiver in relativ kontinentaleren Lndern, wie z.B. in der Tschechoslowakei (51 Lokalitten), Polen (16 Lokalitten), Deutschland (eine grssere Anzahl Lokalitten), Finnland (22 Lokalitten), In westlicher Richtung ist sie in der Regel weniger vital mit einem beschrnkten Vorkommen nur auf einer oder einigen Lokalitten. In Zukunft kann man eine weitere Ausbreitung des sekundren Areals dieser relativ expansiven Art erwarten. 
4179448| Diese Studie behandelt die in der Phytogeographie allgemein bentzten Termini vom Gesichtspunkte ihrer Begrenzung und Vereinheitlichung. Jeder Terminus wird definiert, seine lateinische Bezeichnung, sowie auch Beispiele und in manchen Fllen auch Zeichnungen und Karten wurden beigefgt. In der Studie wird die Terminologie der horizontalen und vertikalen Einteilung der Erdoberflche, weiter die Terminologie verschiedener Typen von Arealen, Disjunktionen, Elementen, Endemiten, Relikten, Dealpinen, Vikarianten, synanthropischen Pflanzen, usw. angefhrt. /// The authors collected the terms of general phytogeography dispersed in the literature, evaluated them and in the present study they suggest proper terms to be used. Terms which were lacking have been created. Thus as far as the main results are concerned several items can be given: A new term "septentrional zone" is suggested for the temperate zone of the northern hemisphere; the term "boreal" which has been used up to now will be kept to designate a floristic region which is only a part of this zone. A double system for vertical division is used, i. e. a general one of which the vegetation-belt is the basic unit and a special one (elaborated here for the region of SSR) in which the basic unit is the vegetation-grade. The term "element" is used only in composite terms such as floristic element and region-element; instead of the term "genetic element" the term "ortant" and instead of the term "migrations-element" the term "migrant" are suggested; further the term "area-type" is suggested instead of the terms "geographic element", "component" and partially "geoelement". The authors differentiate strictly between the terms "area-type" and "floristic element"; in determining the area-type, attention must be paid to the whole distribution of the plants, the area-type can be determined for all taxa. The floristic element, however, shows a narrow relation of the distribution of the taxon to a certain natural floristic region and cannot be determined for all taxa. The floristic element can be further divided into the genuine floristi element, subelement, penetrant and conelement. The term "endemic" is suggested only for taxa of autochthonous origin, not for taxa with a limited distribution (area), where the term "microarealophyte" showed be used. With regard to this basic attribute of the endemic it is necessary to differentiate strictly between endemics and relics. For regions where relics have survived the following two terms are used: refugium and residuum, according to whether the region did or did not belong to the former area of the taxon examined. As to the type of relations of the taxa in the course of their migration regarding a certain region the following terms are suggested: restant, superstant, fugant, residuant, transient, demigrant, remigrant, reservant and immigrant. The term "praealpine" is not used by the authors of the present study in view of the different use of this term by former authors. The term "perialpine" is used instead of it for its original meaning. For the designation of taxa which extend from the lower regions of their original distribution to higher regions, the term "penalpine" has been suggested. For the classification of synanthropic plants a system is suggested, which endeavours to take into the consideration the basic types of relation of the distribution of the plants to human activity. 
4181104|A new monotypic genus Burnsbaloghia Szlachetko - based on the species Spiranthes diaphana Lindl. - originating from the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described. Four illustrations are provided.
4179682|From the Caspian coastal region of Iran a new taxon, Sparganium erectum L. subsp. mazanderanicum Ponert, is described and illustrated. This new subspecies in some of its characters is near to Sparganium erectum L. subsp. microcarpum (Neumann) Domin (with its east distribution trend); in other characters it is near to Sparganium erectum L. subsp. neglectum (Beeby) Schinz et Thell. (with ist south distribution trend). A comparative table of diacritical characters of these three subspecies is appended.
4180816|The present review gives an account of the applicability of mathematical modelling in ecological succession studies. The ability of particular model types to solve problems of both theory and management is discussed. The Markovian models are found to be useful for short term predictions, but of very limited value for theoretical considerations. Finally, the predictability of successional pathways is discussed. It is argued that the less we understand about processes in vegetation dynamics, the more we will see the course of succession as random and unpredictable.
4181354|It has been suggested that variation in the proportion of species in guilds (= guild proportionality) indicates community structuring by guilds in biotic communities. This hypothesis was tested on a subthermophilous grassland and a mesotrophic meadow at a scale of
4181541|The main objective of the present study was to attempt to assign different vegetation types in South Sweden to the Braun-Blanquet system of syntaxa. The alliance was chosen as the most appropriate phytosociological unit for this purpose. Coniferous forests represent the zonal vegetation in large parts of South Sweden: spruce forests on mesic to moist sites and pine forests on dry, often strongly oligotrophic sites can be assigned to the Piceion excelsae and Dicrano-Pinion respectively. In addition, various types of azonal vegetation (e.g., mires, springs, swamps and salt-marshes) subjected to some form of extreme environmental factor can be placed in alliances described from Central Europe. In contrast, some southern vegetation types in Sweden are difficult to assign, partly due to a lack of character species, as in the case of deciduous hardwood forests. In other cases, species of southern syntaxa are still frequent, for example in dry basiphilous grasslands and sun-exposed forest edges, but the syntaxonomical difficulties arise from an intermixture of diagnostic species of complementary alliances. This might be explained by the floristic and climatic conditions in South Sweden which deviate considerably from those in e.g. Germany, a feature supported by the communities' indicator figures for temperature and continentality. This refers particularly to the combination of rather low average temperatures and, except in the west, a strong thermal or hygric continentality.
4179608|In this paper the syntaxonomy and ecology of the following plant communities is discussed: Montio-Cardaminetalia: Montion: Philonoto-Saxifragetum stellaris; Koenigio-Microjuncion: Equiseto palustris-Sedetum villosi, Koenigio-Agrostetum stoloniferae; Litorelletalia: Subularion aquaticae: Subulario-Ranunculetum reptantis; Isoetion lacustris: Ranunculo-Isoetetum lacustris.
4179670| Einer bersicht der Naturverhltmisse folgt eine kurzgefasste Charakteristik der Vegetation nach der floristisch-soziologischen Methode (Braun-Blanquet-Schule). Die folgenden Einheiten wurden analysiert: Gesellschaften des Potamion eurosibiricum, Scirpo-Phragmitetum, Caricetum rostratae, Caricetum gracilis, Caricetum fuscae, Caricetum dioicae, Carici-Festucetum rubrae ass. nova prov., Trifolio-Festucetum rubrae, Nardo-Festucetum capillatae, Nardo-Juncetum squarrosi und andere Nardetalia-Weiden, Calluno-Antennarietum und andere Calluno-Ulicetea-Gesellschaften, Sphagnetum magellanici, Pino rotundatae-Sphagnetum, Vaccinio uliginosi-Pinetum, Calamagrosti villosae-Piceetum, weiter ein montaner Kiefern-Birkenbruch, sekundre Verlandungsstadien, Fichtenforste auf Lagen von Heidelbeer-Buchenwldern (Luzulo-Fagion), Fichtenforste auf Lagen von krautreichen Buchen- und Ahornwldern (Eu-Fagion und Acerion pseudoplatani), Fichtenforste auf Lagen azidophiler montaner Buchenwlder (Verticillato-Fagetum), Ackerunkrautgesellschaften der Plner- und der Silikatbden. Alle Assoziationen (ausgenommen der fragmentarisch entwickelten) sind durch Aufnahmetabellen belegt. Die Verbreitung der angefhrten Gesellschaften ist auf der Karte der realen Vegetation dargestellt. /// The plant cover of a small territory in the central part of the Bohemian-Moravian Highlands (see Fig. 1) is described in this paper. The most important data on topographical and geological conditions are to be seen in Fig. 2 and 3, on climate in Tab. 1. The investigated territory belongs, from the phytogeographical point of view, to the Hercynicum (Eu-Hercynicum), to the district of "drsk vrchy". Subatlantic-montane species such as Juncus squarrosus and Festuca tenuifolia are characteristic, besides submontane forest species, peat-bog species and some relic blanket-bog species (Carex chordorrhiza, Scorpidium scorpioides, Paludella squarrosa, Meesia triquetra). The moderate xerothermic species only seldom penetrate on chalky soils up to the centrum of the territory. The vegetation is noted for many communities, however poor in species. The floating-leaved communities are developed only in fragments, although ponds cover a great area in the investigated territory (ponds used as swimming pools, unfavorable climatic conditions). No associations could be described here. The reed and tall sedge communities occupy only the sublittoral zone of the ponds. The reed swamps were classified as Scirpo-Phragmitetum W. Koch 1926, the tall sedge communities were divided into Caricetum rostratae Rbel 1912 and the Caricetum gracilis Almquist 1929 (see Tab. 3). The secondary stages of the ancient pools (rising after peat digging) and drainage channels mostly represent a mosaic of small segments. They are formed by mono-species stands or by stands extremely poor in species. The most important dominants of these stages are: Sphagnum cuspidatum, S. recurvum, Eriophorum vaginatum, Carex rostrata, C. lasiocarpa, Eriophorum angustifolium and chamaephytes. Peat-bog meadows of the alliance Caricion canescenti-fuscae Nordhagen 1936 are represented by Caricetum fuscae Br.-Bl. 1915 (Tab. 4) and Caricetum dioicae Klika et marda 1944 (Tab. 4). They are mostly of secondary origin. The semicultivated meadows formed by amelioration of peat-bog meadows were described as Carici-Festucetum rubrae ass. nova prov. (see Tab. 5). Its systematical position is not clear. The most frequent cultivated meadow of the mineral soils was identified with Trifolio-Festucetum rubrae Oberd. 1957 (alliance Arrhenatherion elatioris [Br.-Bl. 1925] W. Koch 1926). Although this association has not been hitherto mentioned from Czechoslovakia, it belongs to the widely distributed communities of the submontane zone, above all in the region of Hercynicum. The pastures are represented by two clearly cut associations (Nardo-Festucetum capillatae Klika et marda 1944 and Nardo-Juncetum squarrosi [Nordhagen 1920] Bker 1942, see Tab. 7) and as well by an insufficiently known group fo the Hygro- up to Xeronardeta. The dwarf shrub heats grow above all on the drained and deforested parts of the peat-bogs, but also on rough mineral soils (see Tab. 8). Dwarf scrub heats of mineral soils were classed with the Calluno-Antennarietum Tx. 1937, those on peat soils are noted for stages (the terminal stage of the secondary regeneration of peat-bog, degradation stage after drainage and deforestation), because there are no characteristic species here and our material is insufficient for syntaxonomic evaluation. The peat-bog communities (Sphagnetum magellanici [Malcuit 1929] Schwickerath 1933, Pino rotundatae-Sphagnetum [Kstner et Flssner 1933] Neuhusl 1969, Vaccinio uliginosi-Pinetum Kleist 1929 em. Matuszkiewicz 1962 and the montane Pinus sylvestris-Betula pubescens peat-bog forest) are only compared in the synthetical table, because they will be analysed in detail in another publication (Neuhusl Ms.). The natural spruce forests (Calamagrosti villosae-Piceetum F. K. Hartmann 1953, see Tab. 10) of the alliance Vaccinio-Piceion are bound with damp and cool terrain depressions in the investigated territory which is situated in the Fagion zone. They are spread secondarily on the dead, partly drained, margins of the peat-bogs. The cultural forests were divided, on the base of their correspondence to the natural potential vegetation, as follows: secondary spruce forests on the sites of acidophilous beech forests, (alliance Luzulo-Fagion Lohmeyer et Tx. 1954), on the sites of the beech and maple forests reech in herbs (suballiances Eu-Fagion Oberd. 1957 em. Tx. 1960 and Acerion pseudoplatani Oberd. 1957) and on the sites of acidophilous montane beech forests (Verticillato-Fagetum Oberd. 1957). No sociological analyses have been carried out in the secondary spruce forests; their classification is based on the terrain factors and the presence of rest species. Two groups of field weed communities, corresponding to the eutrophic (on chalky soils) and oligotrophic (on silicate rocks) substrates were distinguished. The differences between the Campanula rapunculoides-Myosotis arvensis community (on chalky soils) and the Apera spicaventi-Vicia tetrasperma community (on siliceous soils) can be seen in Tab. 11. Both communities show the closest dependence on the alliance Aphanion arvensis Malato-Beliz et al. 1960, however they have also a great number of species of the alliance Polygono-Chenopodion W. Koch 1926 em. Siss. 1946. Practically, no differences have been found between weed communities of the cereal and intertilled crops. The map of the real vegetation shows the distribution of the above mentioned communities in the investigated territory (see Fig. 4). 
4181204|A new species of Myosotis ser. Palustres M. Pop., Myosotis margaritae, related to the M. caespitosa group, is described from Bulgaria. Diploid chromosome number (2n=20) is given for the new species, and notes on its distribution, ecology and taxonomic relationships are presented.
4179685| The name Legeriomyces Pouz. is proposed for Genistella Lger et Gauthier (Trichomycetes), which is a later homonym of Genistella Ortega (Papilionaceae). Simultaneously the family name Legeriomycetaceae Pouz. is proposed to replace the family name Genistellaceae Lger et Gauthier. 
4180880| The paper summarizes hitherto known data concerning the biology and ecology of Sagittaria sagittifolia. The distribution of this species in Czechoslovakia was assessed on the basis of literature data, herbarium specimens and the authors' own data. The occurrence of this species in plant communities is shown in tables from selected phytocoenological relevs. The chemical properties of the substratum in habitats of Sagittaria sagittifolia over all its distribution area in Czechoslovakia were studied and comparisons calculated by means of cluster analysis. Life cycle, seed production, germination and biomass production of this species were studied and compared with conditions in its habitats. 
4179975| A survey of the present vegetation of the Prokop Valley Nature Reserve revealed the following natural communities: Erysimo crepidifolii-Festucetum valesiacae Klika 1933, Alysso saxatilis-Festucetum Klika 1941, Allio montani-Sedetum albi Klika 1939, Helianthemo cani-Caricetum humilis ass. nova, Helianthemo cani-Seslerietum calcariae Klika 1933, Primulo veris-Seslerietum calcariae Zlatnk 1928, Prunion spinosae So (1931) 1940 em. Tx. 1952, Prunion fruticosae Tx. 1952, Scabioso ochroleucae-Brachypodietum pinnati Klika 1932, Salvio nemorosae-Melicetum transsilvanicae ass. nova, Lathyro versicoloris-Quercetum pubescentis Klika 1932, Geranio-Peucedanetum cervariae (Kuhn 1937) Th. Mller 1961, Galio-Carpinetum Oberdorfer 1957, Aceri-Carpinetum Klika 1941, Luzulo-Quercetum (Hilitzer 1932) Passarge 1953, Genistion Bcher 1943, Mentho-Juncetum inflexi Lohmeyer 1953. For the anthropogenic vegetation another group of units was used. The species composition, environmental relationships and area of distribution are given for every mapping unit; characteristic soil properties for most important units of natural vegetation are also discussed. 
4181282|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat & Moravec 1994), the present work collects the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1991. The list comprises 76 names of syntaxa; one name is added to the Index 1989 (Theurillat & Moravec 1992).
4180069| The paper sums up the first knowledge obtained from the study of seasonal changes in the growth and decomposition rate of underground plant biomass in a grassland community (Polygalo-Nardetum) in the highland eskomoravsk vrchovina. The maximum increment of underground organs per day was recorded in late summer (
4180993| The ecology of seed germination was examined in air-conditioned boxes in the laboratory, and the sprouting conditions of seeds were investigated in an experimental plot at Prhonice. It was found that the seeds showed no marked dormancy, but that by stratification or putting of seeds into cool soil the speed and abundance of germination was enlarged, especially at low temperatures. The optimum temperatures for germinating are 10/25-30 C and 15C (see the table). At the temperature of 3 C the seeds did not germinate. The sprouting of seeds which got into the soil at the end of summer or at the beginning of autumn goes off mostly from October to November and again in spring, about the middle of April. The young plants with one pair of true leaves for the most part hibernate. In natural conditions this species reproduced only in the generative way, by seeds, in laboratory conditions the possibility of vegetative propagation by cuttings is also reported. The main way of spreading is by anemochory (steppe runners). 
4179777|In the discussion about Glomera and Glossorhyncha reasons are given how to delimit and redefine the two genera. The genus Giulianettia is merged into Glossorhyncha. A list of species belonging to each genus is included resulting in several new combinations.
4181083| Species of family Cuscutaceae belonging to three genera, viz. Grammica, Monogynella and Cuscuta s. str. were studied in Egypt, some of them also in Iraq. Descriptions, keys, tables with comparisons of main morphological features, as well as taxonomic, chorological, and ecological notes, and also phytocartograms of the following taxa growing or expected in Egypt are given: Grammica campestris (Yuncker) Hada et Chrtek, G. chinensis (Lam.) Hada et Chrtek, Monogynella monogyna (Vahl) Hada et Chrtek, Cuscuta pedicellata Ledeb., C. epilinum Weihe ex Boenn., C. palaestina Boiss. (incl. C. balansae Boiss. et Reuter ex Yuncker), C. planiflora Ten. (incl. C. approximata Babingt.), and C. brevistyla A. Rich. A new variety of Monogynella monogyna, var. hadacii, was described from Iraq. A new combination, Monogynella monogyna subsp. esquamata (Engelm.) Chrtek et Osbornov, was made. Main attention was given to Grammica campestris, the species that is nowadays expanding in Egypt. 
4179530|Changes of plant communities (or biotic communities) are classified according to their causes. The term succession is restricted in Clements' original sense to gradual directional replacemental changes of phytocenoses (or biocenoses) caused by their reaction upon the environment including soil development and a classification of succession is proposed. Gradual changes of communities caused by external factors are termed adaptive changes. The connection between succession and soil development as a unified process as well as the concept of climax as its result are discussed. A brief historical survey of the theory of succession as well as soil development is presented and definitions of some successional terms are proposed.
4179842| The lectotype of the name Malcolmia pyramidum C. Presl in Abh. Bhm. Ges. Wiss. ser. 5 (3) 439 (1845) was established in material deposited in the herbarium of the Botanical Institute of the Charles University Praha, (PRC). 
4181262|Morphological plasticity in clonal plants has received wide attention because localized plastic changes in spacer length, branching intensity and branching angle may enable clonal plants to place ramets selectively in the more favourable microhabitats within a heterogeneous environment. These responses have been interpreted in terms of foraging behaviour. Studies of morphological plasticity in clonal plants are usually carried out with one or two genotypes of a species, or with material of unknown genetic origin. Based on the concept of phenotypic plasticity, it is argued that such studies do not reveal whether plasticity in a population can be modified by natural selection. In addition, responses are often evaluated at two environmental conditions only, which may underestimate plasticity. Hence, our information on the ecological and evolutionary significance of morphological plasticity in clonal plants is still very incomplete. Two examples are given to show that stolon internode and rhizome lengths may vary considerably within an individual plant. Only a minor part of this variation may be plastic, i.e. the variation is hardly changed by the environmental conditions to which the plants are subjected. Hence, non-plastic variation in clonal morphology may exceed the degree of morphological plasticity. The non-plastic variation seems to originate from species-specific patterns of stolon and rhizome development. Marked non-plastic variation may obscure the effects of morphological plasticity on the placement pattern of ramets in the field, suggesting that plasticity in clonal morphology may not be very effective in terms of foraging for favourable patches. Possible reasons for the low levels of plasticity of clonal spacers are discussed.
4179726| Chromosome numbers are reported for two Mongolian species, Dracocephalum foetidum Bunge (2n = 12) and Koenigia islandica L. (2n = 14). The relationship of D. foetidum to D. moldavica L. (2n = 10) and some patterns of phenotypic variation in K. islandica are briefly discussed. The following new combinations are proposed: K. cyanadra (Diels) Msek et Sojk, K. forrestii (Diels) Msek et Sojk, K. hubertii (Lingelsh.) Msek et Sojk, and K. nummularifolia (Meisn.) Msek et Sojk. 
4181219|Chromosome numbers were counted in Butomus umbellatus from 99 localities in both Czech and Slovak Republics and the karyotype morphology was studied. Basic chromosome sets are asymmetrical and uniform among diploids (2n = 26) and triploids (2n = 39). Diploids occur less frequently than triploids in this region. Their clonal populations are usually fertile owing to self-compatibility. The clonal populations of triploids are self-incompatible and usually sterile. Thus, the different self-compatibility is the main biological character distinguishing diploids from triploids. Pollen of triploids is viable in spite of meiotic irregularities in pollen mother cells (PMCs). Hybridization both between cytotypes and between the different triploid genets may take place, if they occur sympatrically. Offspring having diverse chromosome numbers between diploid and triploid level can originate as the consequence of such hybridization.
4181206| An introduction is presented to a taxonomic evaluation of rich cultivated and herbarium material of the genus Taraxacum from the Caucasus. Sources of the material, a survey of localities, and a preliminary account of the sections and species groups of Taraxacum described from the Caucasus are given. The introduction is followed by a monograph of T. sect. Porphyrantha, a section shown (contrary to the original conception and some literature data) to be endemic to the Caucasus. Six new species are described belonging to the section divided in two subsections, subsect. Porphyrantha and subsect. Haemantha, viz. T. pseudoporphyranthum, T. vepallidum, T. haemanthum, T. ignivomum, T. exstinctum and T. deminutum. Lectotypes are selected for T. porphyranthum Boiss. and T. pseudoroseum ikin. 
4179876| Die achte Studie ber die Subfamilie Jungermannioideae (Jungermanniaceae, Hepaticae) ist den Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum., die in Australien, Neuseeland und Ozeanien vorkommen, gewidmet. Die meist endemischen Arten, die auf Hawaii vorkommen, werden als eine selbstndige (neunte) Studie bearbeitet. Im genannten Gebiet wurden 13 Arten der Gattung Jungermannia L. emend. Dum. festgestellt. J. (P.) hasskarliana (Nees) Steph., J. (P.) obliquifolia (Schiffn.) Va, J. (P.) tetragona Lindenb., J. (P.) hirticalyx Steph., J. (P.) minutiverrucosa Amak., J. (P.) wattsiana Steph., J. (S.) ariadne Tayl., J. (S.) totipapillosa Hodgs., J. (S.) inundata Hook. fil. et Tayl. emend. Mitt. und J. (S.) orbiculata (Col.) Grolle sind eingehend taxonomisch bearbeitet, J. (P.) micrantha (Mitt.) Steph. wird in die nchste Studie eingereiht. J. (P.) boninensis (Horik.) Inoue wurde von Inoue (Inoue et Iwatsuki 1969) eingehend beschrieben und abgebildet, Haplozia comptonii Pears. wurde schon im 2. Teil diskutiert. Die anderen aus dem Gebiet bekannten Arten sind mit den obenerwhnten Arten synonymisiert oder zu anderen Gattungen gestellt. /// This eight study of the subfamily Jungermannioideae contains: 1. Keys according to sterile and fertile plants to the species of the genus Jungermannia L. emed. Dum. growing in Australia, New Zealand and Oceania (excl. Hawaii). 2. Synonymy, drawings, descriptions, data on the type and exsiccata of ten Jungermannia species from the cited area. There are also notes on ecology, geographical distribution, taxonomy, variation and relationships of these taxa. 3. A list of species belonging to other genera. Taxonomically J. (P.) hasskarliana (Nees) Steph., J. (P.) obliquifolia (Schiffn). Va, J. (P.) tetragona Lindenb., J. (P.) hirticalyx Steph., J. (P.) minutiverrucosa Amak., J. (P.) wattsiana Steph., J. (S.) ariadne Tayl., J. (S.) totipapillosa Hodgs., J. (S.) inundata Hook. fil. et Tayl. emend. Mitt. and J. (S.) orbiculata (Col.) Grolle are treated as good species. Many other taxa are considered to be habitat modifications. 
4180410| Fir-spruce forests and climax spruce forests of the western part of the Slovensk Beskydy and Oravsk Magura Mts. are syntaxonomically described. Beech forests are also mentioned marginally, to distinguish the natural floristic differentiation between coniferous and deciduous phytocoenoses. 
4180020| Eine neue foliikole Flechte (Pleurotrema epiphylla sp. n.) aus Zare (Zentral-Afrika) wird beschrieben. Die Systematischen Beziehungen der neuen Art zu den anderen Pleurotrema-Arten und die Stellung der Gattung Pleurotrema innerhalb der Familie Paratheliaceae wird kurz diskutiert. 
4180991|Based on the study of herbarium material, a critical taxonomic account has been provided on Cardamine sect. Macrophyllum (Cruciferae) from the Asian territory of the Soviet Union. Different morphological characters were examined but special attention was paid to flowers, nectar glands, pollen grains, fruits and seeds, followed by the anatomical studies of fruits and seeds. 8 species have been recognized which are arranged in 2 subsections under Cardamine sect. Macrophyllum viz. 1. Macrophyllae (C. leucantha, C. tomentella, C. macrophylla and C. densiflora) and 2. Prorepentae (C. schinziana, C. yezoensis, C. amareaformis and C. prorepens). Phylogenetic trend also has been traced out suggesting preliminary centres of divergency and polymorphism of the treated taxa.
4179681| Die Ergebnisse der pollenanalytischen und grossrestanalytischen Bearbeitung der See- und Torfablagerungen von Vracov (Sdmhren, Tschechoslowakei) ermglichten einen ersten Einblick in die Vegetationsentwicklung der unmittelbaren und weiteren Umgebung des ehemaligen Sees von Vracov. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit ist der sich im Pollendiagramm widerspiegelden Beeinflussung von Vegetation und Landschaft durch menschliche Ttigkeit gewidmet worden. Ferner wird die Problematik der Ursprnglichkeit und Kontinuitt der sdmhrischen xerothermen Steppenvegetation und die damit verbundene Frage nach dem Entstehen und der Entwicklung der Tschernosembden im Untersuchungsgebiet diskutiert. /// The present paper submits the first results of palaeoecological investigations carried out in the area of a former lake on the outskirts of the town of Vracov (SE Moravia - Czechoslovakia). The locality is situated by the border of the extensive subarid Pannonian Lowlands, thus having great importance for study of the vegetation history of this area. The present paper is chiefly based on pollen and macroscopic analyses of the profile DU-1-B. Although the results and conclusions offered by this paper cannot be definitive (research being still in progress) some fundamental information on several problems has already been obtained. This information concerns: (1) the development of the lake proper and the changing of its vegetation during the Late Weichselian and Flandrian; (2) the development of the neighbouring forests and of dry-land vegetation in the same period; (3) the extent and type of agriculture and of human activity in the area; (4) the steppe problem associated with the problem of the origin and evolution of the chernozem soils. 1. The origin of the former lake of Vracov is supposed to go back to the beginning of the Late-Weichselian Period. As late as the end of the Pre-boreal Period the lake was open and algengyttja was deposited on its bottom. During the Boreal and Atlantic Periods, the edges of the lake were gradually covered by Carex and Phragmites stands. In spite of some short regressions to the Carex-Phragmites stands, between the end of the Sub-boreal Period and the beginning of this century the lake was filled in by brown-moss communities. About fifty years ago the fen was drained. According to the type of sedimentation and vegetation succession, the whole period of the existence of the lake can be divided into eight phases (see p. 290, 291). 2. The pollen diagram traces the development of dry-land vegetation since the Allerd or from the end of the older Dryas. As early as in the Allerd Period an uninterrupted forest cover in the area consisting of Betula and Pinus is supposed to have existed. In the Pre-boreal Period, Quercus and Ulmus also appeared in addition to the dominants Betula and Pinus. Corylus was widespread and, in the Boreal, it reached its maximum. In the Boreal and Atlantic Periods the common type of mixed oak forests become predominant in the lowlands. Fagus and Abies and, partly, Carpinus appeared in the foothills of the Chiby Mountains. Fagus appears continuously from the Boreal, Abies from the beginning of the Pre-boreal; however, these trees attained their maximum development as late as the older Sub-atlantic Period. The final formation of the climax forests as known from today can also be dated to that time. 3. The first traces of human settlement and agriculture go back (according to the pollen diagram) to the end of the Atlantic Period. Since that time, as also shown by archeological and historical data, the region round Vracov has been continuously settled. According to the type and extent of agricultural activity revealed by pollen diagram, five stages can be distinguished: a) Neolithic and Aeneolithic Man seems to be a pastoralist using the forest for grazing his cattle, while the cereal production was limited to small patches of land round human settlements and exerted no great influence on the extent of forest cover. b) Bronze Age Man in the Sub-boreal Period began to reduce the total forest area. The extensive cereal cultivation became predominant over grazing activity. The fallows were probably used as pasture land in this period. c) In the Iron Age, Roman Period and during the Great Migration Period (the Older Subatlantic) the area of cultivated soil was substantially enlarged. The most accessible and most productive soils were apparently deforested in that period. The extensive cultivation of cereals still predominated, but new cultivated plants seem to be introduced in that time (Cannabis, Vitis vinifera, Juglans). d) In the Middle Ages (the older part of the Younger Subatlantic Period) the human settlements spread and even less accessible and less productive soils were deforested in the area of the Chiby foothills, originally covered by Quercus-Carpinus and Fagus-Abies forests. The still extensive cultivation of cereals, together with fallows used for grazing spread to new large regions. e) The decline of agriculture towards the end of the Middle Ages was succeeded by a stage of great agricultural expansion, in which the land was much more intensely cultivated than before. Consequently, the remaining forest stands were used as pasture lands. The pollen diagram reveals the introduction of Fagopyrum and systematic cultivation of Cannabis. 4. The uninterrupted forest cover of the area lasted from the Allerd to the very end of the Atlantic Period. This is the reason why the existence of open steppe vegetation producing chernozem soils on loess during the Boreal or Atlantic Periods (as suggested by existing hypotheses) can be ruled out. A detailed discussion is devoted to the history of steppe vegetation during the Flandrian and to the problem of the origin and evolution of the chernozem soils. New discoveries seem to suggest that the chernozem soils could originate or remain in existence also under certain forest vegetation in suitable climatic and vegetational conditions of Central Europe. 
4181443| The presence of various flavonoids, naphthodianthrones and phloroglucinol derivatives was studied in the natural pentaploid hybrid H. maculatum Crantz subsp. maculatum  H. perforatum L. The hybrid taxon was shown to have secondary metabolites in common with both putative parents thus confirming its parentage. Morphological and nomenclatural questions are briefly discussed. 
4180657|On the north shore of Lake Balaton four study areas were selected with different levels of mineral nutrient supply (two of them are at sewage inflows, one is at the mouth of a natural watercourse, and one is unaffected by water inflow). Studies were made on the development of Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steudel stands. Monthly levels of N, P, K, Na, Ca and Mg in the organs (leaf-blade, leaf-sheath, culm, aquatic root, rhizome and root) of reed were determined from April to October in 1980. Differences were detected between the four study areas in the shoot height, mass, growth rate and element contents. In the aboveground organs, the levels of N, P, and K showed a decrease all through the growing season, but Ca and Mg rose to a peak before declining for the rest of the season. In the underground organs the levels of N and P decreased to a minimum in June to July and thereafter the quantities of these elements gradually increased. In the most heavily contaminated area (area IV), significantly higher levels of tissue N, P and K were found.
4179508| Die asiatische Art Virga strigosa hat sich in der letzten Zeit an den Schuttpltzen, Bachufern und in den Gebschen in einigen Gebieten von Bhmen (besonders bei Praha, Jlov, Hradec Krlov und Opono) eingebrgert. In dieser Mitteilung werden die Studienergebnisse ber die Verbreitungsbiologie und Keimung der Virga-Frchte angefrt. Sie berichtet auch ber das Vorkommen und die Verbreitung dieser Art bei der Stadt Jlov bei Praha in den letzten 6 Jahren und gibt die Unterschiede zwischen der fremden Art Virga strigosa und der einheimischen Art Virga pilosa an (Synonymik siehe bei Holub 1964). 
4179631| Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae stellt auf dem Gebiet der Tschechoslowakei eine sowohl floristisch als auch kologisch zeimlich gut ausgeprgte Assoziation dar. Es trgt den Kennzeichnenden Charakter der Kontaktgesellschaften mit Bindung an nasse bis wechselfeuchtige Bden, deren Sorptionskomplex mit Ionen zweiwertiger Basen gesttigt ist. Es sind zwei Subassoziationen angefhrt: Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae typicum und Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae caricetosum. An analogen Standorten mit saureren Bden und nicht vllig gesttigtem Sorptionskomplex entwickelt sich die Assoziation Epilobio-Juncetum (effusi). /// Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae which has been investigated in various parts of Czechoslovakia represents a rather uniform community with comparatively true characteristic species - Juncus inflexus, Mentha longifolia, and in the investigated areas also Hypericum tetrapterum. The specific composition in general is also characteristic - first of all there is the constant share of species bound more strictly to the alliance Agropyro-Rumicion crispi as well as of species equipped with a wider cenotic amplitude, the optimum of which is situated within the units of the class Plantaginetea maioris. The species group from other cenological units is numerous, indeed, but these species are mostly not very constant. Within the association there are two subassociations to be distinguished: Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae typicum (without any differential species) which is bound to lower sites, and Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae caricetosum stellulatae with a number of differential species; it is differentiated from the ecological standpoint, too. The last-mentioned subassociation simultaneously represents an ecological mountain race. Junco inflexi-Menthetum longifoliae is a community on the contact of relatively moist and dry habitats; usually it surrounds spring areas on slopes, or depressions of riverain sites which are flooded for short periods only. Beside the moist or temporarily waterlogged soil (soil types gley or anmoor), another important condition for the rise of the association is high base-saturation of the soil sorption complex; this circumstance evidently contributes to higher nitrate production in the soil. Epilobio-Juncetum (effusi) arises on habitats of analogous character, but with more acid soil, in which the sorption complex is not so saturated with bases and the Al
4179738|The division of Cuscuta s.l. into 4 genera, based mainly on floral morphology, is corroborated by their embryology. Several new combinations in Monogynella and Grammica are proposed.
4180987|Attempts have been made to reveal the survival strategies of the two forms of Trianthema portulacastrum. These morphs, viz rubra and flava, do not show any remarkable difference in their morphology, phenology and water relations. Metabolically, rubra form is more hardy than flava form, because of lesser water loss, higher water retention capacity, high protein content and higher levels of proline accumulation at different stages of plant growth. Seed germination studies revealed the presence of hard seed coatedness in both merphs, being more in the flava form.
4180558| A description of some woodless plant communities occurring in the central part of the Isla de la Juventud is presented. Most of the communities originated from Pinus forests. The substrate is formed by oligotrophic white sand. According to the plant composition and the corresponding water regime, three classes were established in the area under study: the Hydrolaeetea nigricaulis Baltov-Tulkov 1985; the Parvirhynschosporo-Eriocauletea Borhidi in Baltov-Tulkov et Capote 1985 and the Curatello-Byrsonimetea Borhidi ex Baltov-Tulkov et Surli 1983. The communities of the first class, poor in species, are bound to periodically inundated depressions. The second class, the Parvirhynchosporo-Eriocauletea, includes communities occurring in area with inundations shallower than those in the first class. The third class, the Curatello-Byrsonimetea, includes savanna communities of periodically dry sites. 
4180371| Excerpted iconographies (printed or manuscripts) from the beginnings of investigation of Czech flora (1786-1835) contain pictures of many plants described by the early Bohemian botanists, starting with F. W. Schmidt and ending with the Presl brothers. Illustrations belonging to the protologue are of high taxonomical value. Some of the iconographies were discovered only recently by the author. Many were not exploited since no lists of depicted plants existed. These were reasons why the present index was compiled. /// Dieses Verzeichnis der Gefsspflanzen-Abbildungen aus der ltesten bhmischen Ikonographien dient vor allem als taxonomisches Hilfsbuch zum Auffinden derjenigen Abbildungen, die zum Protolog-Material der von bhmischen Botanikern beschriebenen Arten gehren oder ihre taxonomische Auffassung der Arten erklren. Fr den ersten Teil des Verzeichnisses wurden nur Ikonographien exzerpiert; einige waren bisher ganz unbekannt, manche andere wurden nicht benutzt, weil deren Inhalt unbekannt geblieben ist. Bemerkungen zu einzelnen Ikonographien sind chronologisch geordnet. Die Bibliotheken, wo die scltensten Ikonographien mit beigefgten Signaturen aufbewahrt werden, sind im bibliographishen Verzeichnis der Ikonographien angefhrt. Der zweite Teil des Verzeichnisses wird die in zerstreuten Zeitschriftenartikeln verffentlichten Pflanzenabbildungen aus demselben Zeitabschnitt einschliessen. 
4181393|Variance deficit in the number of species per sampling unit, as compared to a null model with species occurring independently of each other has been considered by various authors to be evidence for niche limitation. I show that simpler mechanisms could explain this phenomenon. Of those, the competition of individuals for space limits the number of individuals per sampling unit, resulting in decrease of variance in species richness. Testing the proportions of species belonging to various guilds seems to be more ecologically interesting, although here also the variance deficit can hardly be taken as reliable evidence for niche limitation.
4181164|The paper summarizes data concerning the biology and ecology of Oenanthe aquatica. The species is commonly distributed all over Czechoslovakia, from lowlands to the submontane belt, especially in fishpond and river basins. O. aquatica shows no special relationship to the chemical and physical soil properties, and is well adapted to habitats with a changing water level. The reproduction of O. aquatica depends on emerging of the bottom. The most developed populations are formed by biennial plants and arise in the year following summer or autumn drainage.
4180292| Die vorliegende Darstellung knpft thematisch und inhaltlich an die Schilderung der Gesellschaften des Onopordion acanthii-Verbandes im nrdlichen Teil der Donau-Tiefebene (Mucina 1981) an. Sie enthlt die Bearbeitung subthermophiler Gesellschaften des Dauco-Melilotion-Verbandes auf ruderalen Standorten, wie: Melilotetum albae-officinalis, Berterotum incanae, Dauco-Picridetum, Dauco-Crepidetum rhoeadifoliae und der Erigeron annuus-Gesellschaft. Als neu wurden folgende Syntaxa beschrieben: Berterotum incanae typicum typische Variante und die Variante mit Salvia nemorosa, Dauco-Picridetum typicum typische Variante und die Variante mit Atriplex acuminata und Dauco-Picridetum crepidetosum biennidis. Die untersuchte Gesellschaften-Gruppe entspricht standrtlich der Gruppe der gleichfalls in den Rahmen des Dauco-Melilotion-Verbandes eingeordneten Gesellschaften-Gruppe natrlicher Standorte. /// The phytosociological treatment of the alliance Dauco-Melilotion Grs 1966 on ruderal and semiruderal sites as well in the northwestern part of Podunajsk Lowlands follows that one of the alliance Onopordion acanthii Br-bl. 1926. (cf. Mucina 1981). General characteristics (synmorphological, syntaxonomical, synecologicall, syndynamical and synchorological) of the associations Melilotetum albae-officinalis, Berterotum incanae, Dauco-Picridetum, Dauco-Crepidetum rhoeadifoliae and the Erigeron annuus-community are presented. The most of vegetation types treated here in the rang of subassociation and variant as well are described as a new ones. This is the case of Dauco-Picridetum typicum (incl. both variants - typical and var. with Atriplex acuminata), Dauco-Picridetum crepidetosum biennidis, Berterotum incanae var. typical, and var. with Salvia nemorosa. Soil analyses are added (Melilotetum albae-officinalis, Berterotum incanae, and Dauco-Picridetum). 
4180688|Seed survival of Avena fatua L. var. fatua at various depths (0 to 50 cm) in a degraded chernozem was studied over a period of eight years. Statistical evaluation showed that seeds survived significantly during the first two years at depths of 0 to 20 cm, while at depths of 30 to 50 cm seeds statistically survived in the course of four years. After six years significant withering was observed within the whole soil profile, though 1% of seeds remained viable even until the eighth year. A tendency for prolonged survival of small seeds, and partly of medium ones, was observed in deeper soil layers in the sixth and seventh year.
4181224| Chromosome numbers are reported for 19 collections representing 16 Asiatic Potentilla taxa. The first chromosome records are reported for P. desertorum Bunge var. arnavatensis Wolf (2n = 28), P. festiva Sojk (2n = 28), P. griffithii Hook f. subsp. beauvaisii (Cardot) Sojk (2n = 42), P. micropetala D. Don subsp. byssitecta (Sojk) Msek et Sojk (2n = 14), P. mollissima Lehm. (2n = 28), P. moorcroftii Wall. ex Lehm. (2n = 42), P. multicaulis Bunge (2n = 14), P. [x] omissa Sojk (2n = 35, 56, 70) and P. stanjukoviczii Ovcz. ex Koczk. (2n = 14). Counts differing from those previously recorded are given for P. algida Sojk (2n = 56) and P. flagellaris Willd. ex Schlecht. (2n = 42). Chromosome numbers of the following species were confirmed: P. [x] agrimonioides Bieb. (2n = 42), P. chinensis Ser. in DC. (2n = 14), P. fragarioides L. (2n = 14), P. lineata Trev. (2n = 14) and P. sericea L. (2n = 28). Taxonomy is briefly discussed. A new combination P. micropetala D. Don subsp. byssitecta (Sojk) Msek et Sojk stat. nov. is proposed. 
4179577|The first part of a study on the phytogeography and phytosociology of Rhynchospora alba (L.) Vahl in Czechoslovakia presents the data on the distribution of the plant. Data from literature and from herbaria are subjected to critical evaluation, and a list of localities and distribution maps are appended.
4180411| This part of the study, referring to the previous syntaxonomic part (Kov 1981), presents the results of a synecological examination of nine grassland communities of the Labe river basin covering roughly the following gradient of the alluvial hydrosere: the Cerastio arvensi-Festucetum trachyphyllae trifolietosum pratensis, the Arrhenatheretum elatioris typicum, the Alopecuretum pratensis, the Stellario-Deschampsietum caespitosae phalaridetosum, the Serratulo-Festucetum commutatae, the Molinietum coeruleae brometosum, the Angelico-Cirsietum oleracei, the Caricetum gracilis typicum, the Caricetum buekii. The long-term study of ground-water level fluctuations showed their close connection to other characteristics of the meadow soils (soil type, moisture content, granulometric composition, capillary water-holding capacity, porosity, acidity, mineral nutrient contents, microbial activity, soil temperature) as well as to the development and distribution of the grassland communities associated with ecosystems of river alluvia. The formation and dynamics of the vegetation in the large river floodplain (at present exposed to the impact of far-reaching hydrological alteration) are explained as a consequence of changes in the natural ecocycles supporting the long-term stable character of the large river basin within the landscape. 
