25133856|A taxonomical revision of the genus Festuca sect. Eskia in the Iberian Peninsula is presented. Seven species and two hybrid taxa are recognized in this section in the area studied. Karyological data show that six of the studied taxa (F. pseudeskia, F. scariosa, F. elegans subsp. elegans, F. burnatii, F. eskia, and F. picoeuropeana) are diploids, two of them are both diploid and tetraploid (F. gautieri and F. quadriflora), one is tetraploid (F. elegans subsp. merinoi) and the ploidy level of one taxon (F. souliei) is unknown. A new combination F. elegans subsp. merinoi (Pau) Fuente et Ortez is published. A key based on data collected in this study allows for the identification of all taxa in this section. The complete description of each taxon is presented, as well as the ecology and chorology, including distribution maps. The illustrations summarize plant habits and the morphological and anatomical pattern observed on spikelets, ligules and leaf cross sections. Epidermal features were studied using scanning electron microscopy.
25133940|Using the Braun-Blanquet approach, five associations of boreal forests were distinguished in central Yakutia, the most continental part of eastern Siberia. Ecological features of the syntaxa were explained with the use of the DCA ordination of 50 relevs. All available data from eastern Siberia were involved in the study for syntaxonomic analysis. Central Yakutian boreal forests were classified into two classes: Rhytidio-Laricetea sibiricae Korotkov et Ermakov 1999 - ultracontinental light coniferous hemiboreal forests, and Vaccinio-Piceetea Br.-Bl. in Br.-Bl. et al. 1939 - typical coniferous taiga forests of northern Eurasia. A new concept of higher syntaxonomic units of the class Vaccinio-Piceetea in eastern Siberia has been developed. Three orders represent the diversity of taiga forests: (1) Cladonio-Vaccinietalia Kielland-Lund 1967 (with alliances Hieracio umbellati-Pinion sylvestris Anenkhonov et Chytr 1998 and Saxifrago bronchialis-Pinion sylvestris all. nov.) - light coniferous boreal forests occurring in dry and moderately dry oligotrophic sites in various climatic sectors of Northern Eurasia; (2) Lathyro humilis-Laricetalia cajanderi ord. nov. (with alliances Aulacomnio acuminati-Laricion cajanderi all. nov. and Rhododendro daurici-Laricion gmelinii all. nov.) - zonal boreal forests with xeric elements, which are typical of regions of northern Asia with cold, dry ultracontinental climate; (3) Ledo-Laricetalia cajanderi ord. prov. (with alliance Ledo-Laricion cajanderi prov.) - North Eurasian boreal forests occurring in cold sites with excessive soil moisture, sometimes water-logged. Phytogeography and ecology of these orders are discussed in comparison with other regions of northern Asia.
4201445|Reproductive behaviour and the pathways of gene flow among ploidy levels were studied experimentally in Taraxacum sect. Ruderalia. Diploid, triploid and tetraploid individuals were sampled from mixed diploid - polyploid natural populations. 136 experimental hybridizations between the plants of different ploidy levels were performed. Seeds resulting from these crosses, those obtained from isolated anthodia as well as from open pollinated anthodia (both from cultivated and wild plants) were subjected to the flow-cytometric seed screening (FCSS) to determine ploidy levels in the progeny and to infer breeding behaviour of maternal plants. Three possible pathways of the gene flow were studied: (A) fertilization of sexuals by pollen of apomicts, (B)
25134120|Rubus ambrosius Trvnek et Oklejewicz, a widely distributed species from the eastern part of Central Europe (Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland), is described. R. ambrosius differs from similar species R. sulcatus Vest by more deeply furrowed stems, longer prickles on first-year tems, longer petioles, more prickly petioles, densely hairy leaves beneath and by blunter leaf martin serration with incisions only (2-)1.5-2.5 mm deep. The newly described species is illustrated both by photographs (including the holotype) and a line drawing. A list of localities and a distribution map are presented.
23264874|Isolated forested mountains in deserts have numerous ecological and societal values, but land-management practices (e.g., fire-regime alteration) and climate change can affect forest composition. We analyzed tree overstory-understory relationships on 123 sites in the Spring Mountains within the Mojave Desert near Las Vegas, Nevada, USA to assess three hypotheses. We hypothesized that: the tree species comprising understories are less tolerant of fire than species in overstories, reflecting land-management practices of fire exclusion; mid-elevation forests have the lowest overstory: understory similarity because this zone could have maximum species mixing; and overstory:understory similarity is correlated with environmental gradients (consisting of 14 topographic and soil variables). We found that Pinus monophylla comprised greater relative canopy cover in understories of juniper (32% relative cover) and pinyon-juniper (78%) forests than it did in overstories of these forests (0% and 53%). Similarly, fire-intolerant Abies concolor had 6-fold greater understory than overstory cover in forests with overstories dominated by the fire-tolerant Pinus ponderosa. Overstory:understory Srensen similarity averaged 43%77% among six forest types, and there was little support for the supposition that similarity was lowest in mid-elevation forests. Distributions of individual overstory and understory species more closely corresponded with environmental gradients than did overstory:understory similarity. Results suggest that there is high potential for change in at least two of the six dominant forest types of the Spring Mountains. The direction of change (species of moist, higher elevation sites establishing in understories of drier forests) is the opposite of what would be expected for forest adaptation to the warmer, drier, more fire-prone conditions projected for the next century in the southwestern USA.
25134138|Spatial variation in twelve floral characters was examined in an epiphytic orchid Lepanthes rupestris to evaluate the strength and direction of phenotypic selection in seven riparian populations along two river basins in the Caribbean National Forest "El Yunque" for a range of 18-34 months. We evaluated selection on floral characters based on male (pollinaria removal) and female fitness (fruit set). Simple linear and quadratic regressions were used to evaluate the strength of directional, disruptive and stabilizing selections. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to estimate the total strength of the selection acting on a character. Phenotypic selection was inconsistent among characters and populations. Few of the characters appeared to be under selection and none of them was found to be consistent throughout all populations. Inconsistency in selection coefficients among populations could suggest that selection is spatially variable. We only noted one character (column length) which had some consistency in differential selection coefficients among populations. Previous studies have shown that effective population sizes in L. rupestris are small and the observed "fitness differences" among populations could as easily be explained as stochastic events at play. We argue that the observed "fitness differences" in most characters and inconsistency among populations are likely from stochastic noise and not phenotypic selection. Consequently, we propose that random selection on character state support the hypothesis of genetic drift in small orchid populations.
23064565|The strong correlation found between detailed and simple measures of biodiversity at landscape-scale may suggest that patterns of detailed diversity measures are artifacts (sensu Palmer et al. 2008, this issue). For example the regional pattern of Compositional Diversity (a measure of within-stand structural complexity) can be considered as a correct but trivial result because this pattern is almost completely determined (at least statistically) by the regional pattern of species richness. However, I argue that this interpretation is misleading. Using spatially-explicit individual-based simulations I demonstrate that fine-scale patterns and assembly rules (between a dominant grass and some annual species) significantly affect the dynamics of diversity, and fine-scale constraints are able to generate regional diversity patterns. Simulations illustrate that patterns that seem to be artifacts in a static view might acquire functional relevance in a temporal-dynamic approach. While a static view suggests that variation of fine-scale community attributes (e.g. Compositional Diversity) is explained by the variation of species richness, a dynamic approach shows the opposite. In the long term, variation of species richness is explained by the patterns of fine-scale community organization. I propose the use of mechanistic simulations coupled with the analyses of within-stand variability and spatial dependence of species combinations to reveal otherwise hidden spatiotemporal aspects of biodiversity.
25133997|Self-incompatibility was demonstrated in the diploid taxa Hieracium alpinum and H. umbellatum using isolation experiments. However, self-incompatibility was broken down in diploid H. alpinum under the influence of foreign pollen from another species of this genus (mentor effects) during a series of crossing experiments. Interestingly, failure of the SI system was also recorded in diploid H. alpinum in an intergeneric cross with the representative of the closely related genus of Pilosella. This is the first record of autogamy in the genus Hieracium s.str. The possible evolutionary significance of this phenomenon is discussed.
23486815|Simulation of seed passage through a bird's gut is an important tool for comparing the effect of bird digestion and thus the potential for plant dispersal by endozoochory. However, sufficient methodology is missing. Thus, we subjected seeds of 20 plant species to seven different simulations of gut passage and to the real passage through a pigeon's gut to determine which simulation type best reflects the effects of real bird digestion. We also measured various seed traits to identify the traits responsible for differences between species. Results show that four out of seven simulations were significant predictors of seed survival after gut passage. The fit between direct digestion by the pigeon and the different simulation treatments was, however, species-specific and depends not only on the commonly tested traits such as seed mass and water permeability, but also on other unmeasured traits. Seed mass was the best predictor of differences between real digestion and simulation. Selecting one type of simulation to be a good predictor of seed survival after gut passage is difficult. The strongest simulation (24-h scarification and 240-min acid immersion) is the best predictor and may be used to compare the ability of seeds to be dispersed by bird endozoochory. Such knowledge can be included in databases of species traits, as is currently done for many other species traits.
25133854|A syntaxonomical review of the Minuartio-Poion ligulatae (Festuco hystricis-Ononidetea striatae) in the Iberian Peninsula, supported by numerical classification (complete linkage clustering) and ordination (correspondence analysis), is presented. Communities of psychro-xerophilous calcicolous plants occur in the high mountains and "parameras" of the south and central western Iberian Peninsula, areas which suffer from severe frosts. The data collected point to three large groups of communities: those of the chorological Carpetano-Ibrico-Leonesa Province; those of the Castellano-Maestrazgo-Manchega Province; and those of the Btica Province. Within the latter group, similarities and differences between the communities were analyzed and two new associations (Herniario boissieri-Festucetum hystricis and Pimpinello gracilis-Festucetum nevadensis) were described. In addition, data clearly support the existence of a humidity-xericity gradient responsible for the distinction of the communities into different syntaxonomic units.
25133791|Chromosome counts on Costus lucanusianus in Nigeria were carried out. Diploid (2n=18) and triploid (2n=27) chromosome numbers were found. The diploid cytotype is reported for the first time for this taxon.
25133781|Species turnover and mobility on a scale of 25 m was studied in a montane meadow, which had been transplanted to a location 200 m away from the initial site in the Harz Mountains. The transplantation was performed to preserve this grassland area, which otherwise would have been destroyed by a road construction project. The frequency of 18 endangered species was recorded annually from 1992 to 1996 in 122 quadrats, having a size of 5  5 m and being arranged in a coherent block with a total area of 3,000 m. Many species showed considerable dynamics in setting in the quadrats. The species mobility was expressed as turnover rate, as persistence and as increase in cumulative species frequency. Mean turnover rates in quadrats over the study period ranged from 0.0% to 20.9% for Ranunculus platanifolius and Viola tricolor, respectively. The lowest annual persistence was found for Lilium martagon with 0.582, followed by Viola tricolor with 0.625. For the majority of species, persistence with regard to the first year did not decrease during the investigational period; exceptions were the decreasing persistence of Polygala vulgaris, Thesium pyrenaicum and Viola tricolor. In all cases, the cumulative frequencies were significantly lower than would had been expected on a random basis. Even the most mobile species showed cumulative frequencies which closely approximated the lowest possible values, thus supporting the minimum mobility model which proceeds from allocating occurrences to the cells in which the species previously occurred. In general, mobility on a scale of 25 m was much lower than had been demonstrated by various authors on smaller scales. However, mobility studies on a large scale are useful because they focus on certain aspects of mobility such as life span of individuals and seed dispersal. For the investigated species can be concluded that the low mobility rate was not sufficient for their establishment in new grid cells to a considerable extent.
25134053|Results of a karyological analysis of eight species collected from northeast Anatolia, Turkey are presented. The following chromosome numbers were determined: H. medianiforme (Litv. et Zahn) Juxip 2n=36, H. karagollense (Zahn) P.D. Sell et C. West 2n=36, H. argillaceoides (Litv. et Zahn) Juxip 2n=36, H. amblylepis Boiss. 2n=27, H. lanceolatum Vill. 2n=27, H. asterodermum (Woronow et Zahn) Juxip 2n=27, H. umbellatum L. 2n=18, H. laevigatum Willd. 2n=27. The chromosome numbers of five of these seven species are presented for the first time. The results show a high proportion of triploids and tetraploids within the taxa studied.
41245487|Centaurea phrygia agg. was studied in part of Central Europe (Czech Republic, Slovakia and Ukraine) to evaluate its karyological and morphological variation. Three ploidy levels were found: diploid (C. pseudophrygia, C. stenolepis and several populations of C phrygia s. str.), tetraploid (C. oxylepis and several populations of C phrygia s. str.), and triploid (very rare, only single individuals). Only one taxon, C. phrygia s. str., comprises populations of two ploidy levels, but they seem to be geographically separated. Multivariate morphometric analysis confirmed the separation of the four taxa; the length and the width of appendages of middle involucral bracts, visibility of appendages of inner involucral bracts, the length and the width of an involucre, and the length/width ratio of middle cauline leaves are the most important discriminant characters. Several populations intermediate between two species (either C pseudophrygia and C. stenolepis or C oxylepis and C. phrygia s. str.) were found. Their possible origin from introgressive hybridization is discussed considering their morphology (intermediate between putative parental species), chromosome numbers (always the same as in putative parents), and distribution (both spatially and ecologically more or less intermediate between distribution ranges of putative parents). A determination key for the four studied species, including intermediates, is also presented.
23064934|The order Scorzonero-Chrysopogonetalia describes the dry grasslands of a large area in southeastern Europe, centred around and east of the Adriatic Sea (i.e., Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Italy, Montenegro and Slovenia). Most commonly, Scorzonero-Chrysopogonetalia is arranged within the classes Festuco-Brometea or Brachypodio-Chrysopogonetea or it is split into two orders classified within Festuco-Brometea and Thero-Brachypodietea; according to other minor opinions, the order is sometimes assigned to Brachypodio-Brometea, Thero-Brachypodietea or Ononido-Rosmarinetea. This report deals with the nomenclatural revision of Scorzonero-Chrysopogonetalia and other correlated syntaxa to sort out the numerous incorrect syntaxon names found in scientific literature. The revision is carried out according to the third edition of the International Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature, and while it focuses on ranks of order, alliance and suballiance, it is also enlarged to include associations quoted in major comprehensive syntaxonomic revisions. As a result, many names and authors' citations of syntaxa are corrected, and the theoretical implications arising from their usage are indicated. To promote nomenclatural stability, a new alliance, Violo pseudogracilis-Bromopsion caprinae, is described, and the following syntaxa are validated: Hypochoeridion maculatae, Hypochoeridenion maculatae, Astragalo croatici-Seslerietum robustae, Avenulo praeustae-Brometum erecti, Bromo erecti-Seslerietum interruptae, Carici vernae-Scabiosetum leucophyllae, Globulario cordifoliae-Scabiosetum leucophyllae, Globulario elongatae-Chrysopogonetum grylli, Minuartio capillaceae-Genistetum pulchellae, Stipo eriocaulis-Caricetum humilis and Stipo pennatae-Genistetum dalmaticae. Additionally, three association names (Asphodelo albi-Filipenduletum vulgaris, Centaureo rupestris-Caricetum humilis and Cymbopogono hirti-Brachypodietum ramosi) are proposed for inversions, and three others (Festuco illyricae-Poetum bulbosae, Lactuco vimineae-Bothriochloetum ischaemum and Saturejo montanae-Dichanthietum ischaemum) are corrected. Finally, typifications of 16 syntaxa are given.
25133760|A noteworthy wild lupine accession was recently discovered in southwestern Turkey and was proposed as a new separate Old World "smooth-seeded" species close to L. micranthus and named L. anatolicus. Its species status was controversial with respect to cytological and crossability data. In order to examine the position and the evolutionary relationships of this Anatolian accession relative to the Old World lupines, we investigated new data from seed coat micromorphology, and from internal transcribed spacer (ITS) nucleotide sequences of the nuclear ribosomal DNA repeat. The micromorphological seed coat pattern of L. anatolicus, as revealed by scanning electron microscopy, is characterized by pluricellular tubercles, which represent the typical and unique pattern of the Old World "rough-seeded" lupines (sect. Scabrispermae). In accordance with the micromorphological results, the genetic distances and phylogenetic relationships among the Old World lupines, estimated from ITS data, unambiguously support the new Anatolian lupine accession as part of the L. pilosus-L. palaestinus lineage within the strongly monophyletic group containing all the Scabrispermae. The results provided in this study, together with other lines of data available from the literature, are thus hardly compatible with the hypothesis that this new Anatolian lupine accession could be related to Old World "smooth-seeded" lupines (including L. micranthus); instead, it appears closely related to L. pilosus.
25134023|In a four-year removal experiment we investigated the effect of removing a dominant species (Nardus stricta), the litter layer and moss layer on species composition of established vegetation and on numbers and species composition of seedlings. The experiment was conducted in an oligotrophic wet meadow (Molinion with some features of Violion caninae according to phytosociological classification). After four years of the experiment, the redundancy analysis (RDA) did not reveal any changes in the composition of the established plant community. Seedling numbers and their species composition, however, varied significantly both among treatments and over years. Whereas the differences between treatments were mainly in total seedling numbers, the years differed in both seedling numbers and relative representation of individual species. In particular, Myosotis nemorosa seedlings highly increased their abundance in a favourable year 1995 constituting one third of all the seedlings found, whereas in other years their abundance was between 4% and 10%. The effects of year and treatment were not additive (significant year  treatment interaction). This means that plots under different treatments are differently affected by climatic conditions of individual years. The greatest increase of seedling recruitment was observed in the plots with the moss layer removed. Microsites with high seedling recruitment persisted in the plots for no more than two years. Why the established vegetation composition does not differ among treatments even after four years, despite the relatively pronounced and immediate response of seedlings? The number of species with regular seedling recruitment is limited. They are mostly perennials, and consequently, it might take even longer than four years before recruitment limitation affects the population size of established plants.
23486789|Our study aims to compare the population dynamics of critically endangered species, Dracocephalum austriacum, in two distant regions (Czech and Slovak Karst) with similar habitat conditions, and to evaluate if conclusions concerning factors affecting population performance in one region could help in understanding species dynamics in the other region. Transition matrix models were used to examine population dynamics of the species. Results show that populations in the Slovak Karst are performing better than populations in the Czech Karst. The transitions contributing most to the population growth rates were those of stasis in the small and large adult plant stage. These transitions are, however, stable between populations and years, suggesting that they are not very sensitive to the ongoing changes. Transitions that contribute most to variations in population growth rate include seed and seedling production by large adult plants, seed germination and stasis and growth of small adult plants. These transitions seem to be affected by habitat conditions (soil depth and bare rock cover), genetic parameters of the populations, climate fluctuations (especially severe droughts), and shrub expansion. The transitions contributing most to the population growth rates are very similar between the regions except for contributions of seedling growth and stasis of large adults. These differences need to be considered before using information about the most important life cycle transitions in other regions. We suggest that similar results would be found for other species with narrow habitat requirements occupying very similar habitats, even in very distant regions.
4201310|The application of different current species concepts to the predominantly apomictic R. auricomus complex (goldilocks) is discussed. As with other uniparental reproducing organisms, biological species concepts are hardly applicable in apomictic groups. Information on reproductive systems, phenetic and ecological differentation, and evolutionary traits favour an "agamospecies" concept. It is argued that agamic lineages in goldilocks can be treated neither as subspecific taxa, nor as hybrids. A general viewpoint is proposed that species are stable phases within a continuous process of diversification of ancestral-descendent lineages. Constancy of progeny, similarity of phenotype, and ecogeographical niches of organisms are regarded as the most important operational criteria for grouping and ranking of species. Mode of reproduction is seen as a feature of a species - not as a criterion for its definition. Internal stability of features is regarded as more important for species definition than the features themselves.
23064502|A new species, Limonium scopulorum (Plumbaginaceae), is described from the maritime cliffs of Alicante province, Spain (southeastern part of the Iberian Peninsula). This new taxon belongs to the group of Limonium delicatulum, which is highly diversified in the Mediterranean territories of the Iberian Peninsula. It is related to the Balearic species L. biflorum, though several leaf, floral and chromosomal features warrant its easy recognition. Molecular divergence, shown in previous studies, also supports its separate treatment. Major affinities and differences with other related taxa are discussed. Moreover, morphological, ecological, chorological, biogeographic features of the new taxon are discussed, and its conservation status is reported. An identification key is provided for Spanish taxa of the Limonium delicatulum group.
23065008|Although semi-natural grasslands in Europe are declining there is often a time delay in the local extinction of grassland species due to development of remnant populations, i.e., populations with an extended persistence despite a negative growth rate. The objectives of this study were to examine the occurrence of remnant populations after abandonment of semi-natural grasslands and to examine functional traits of plants associated with the development of remnant populations. We surveyed six managed semi-natural grasslands and 20 former semi-natural grasslands where management ceased 60100 years ago, and assessed species response to abandonment, assuming a space-for-time substitution. The response of species was related to nine traits representing life cycle, clonality, leaf traits, seed dispersal and seed mass. Of the 67 species for which data allowed analysis, 44 species declined after grassland abandonment but still occurred at the sites, probably as remnant populations. Five traits were associated with the response to abandonment. The declining but still occurring species were characterized by high plant height, a perennial life form, possession of a perennial bud bank, high clonal ability, and lack of dispersal attributes promoting long-distance dispersal. Traits allowing plants to maintain populations by utilizing only a part of their life cycle, such as clonal propagation, are most important for the capacity to develop remnant populations and delay local extinction. A considerable fraction of the species inhabiting semi-natural grasslands maintain what is most likely remnant populations after more than 60 years of spontaneous succession from managed semi-natural grasslands to forest.
23486788|Seed dispersal seems to be extremely important in agrocoenoses where suitable habitats (patches) are surrounded by an unfavourable environment (matrix). The role of the rook Corvus frugilegus, an omnivorous bird, in seed dispersal was studied in the agricultural landscape of Eastern Poland. We analyzed 739 pellets produced by regurgitation, which were collected under breeding colonies in April, May and June. Our goal was to i) assess the structure of the seed pool in pellets; ii) evaluate the temporal variation in the pellet seed pool on two different time scales; iii) compare the species composition of seeds in pellets and vegetation under the rook nests. Seeds were present in 18 % of pellets; 571 seeds were found, half of them belonging to dry-fruited species, without any obvious adaptations to endozoochory. These seeds could be an additional source of food, or they could have been accidentally swallowed during foraging for other food items. Taking into consideration the abundance of the rook population, we assessed the mean number of seeds transferred by one bird to be from 4 seeds per month in April and up to 160 seeds in June. The most important factor responsible for qualitative and quantitative structure of seed pool in pellets is the time when pellets were regurgitated. The type and availability of food determines the number and species structure of dispersed seeds. The comparison of the species structure of the seed pool in pellets and of the herb layer under the breeding colonies showed that the rook could effectively disperse seeds of weeds, meadow and ruderal species, that could germinate under the dense canopy of trees at the studied sites.
4201358| The rhizome age structure for populations of Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud. was determined at three sites of the Tebo Biosphere Reserve (Czech Republic). These sites were classified according to plant species composition and phosphorus availability as oligotrophic (Brann), mesotrophic (Romberk East) and hypertrophic (Romberk West). P. australis stands at these sites were expanding, stabilized and retreating, respectively. Rhizomes were sampled within the terrestrial parts of the reed stands (at a water depth of about 10 cm). The rhizomes were dated according to the position in the branching hierarchy and to supplementary morphological criteria. The analysis of the branching pattern revealed that at the sites studied, the rhizomes typically branch only once a year. The longest life span of rhizomes (six years) was found for the stable reed population at Romberk East. The reduced rhizome life span at Romberk West (four to five years), accompanied by a reduced branching frequency of horizontal rhizomes, was ascribed to a greater incidence of anaerobic conditions associated with the permanent flooding of the hypertrophic organic soil. The maximum life span of the Brann population (four years) probably corresponds to the total age of the reed population. The concentrations of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium in the tissue decreased with rhizome age while those of calcium and magnesium increased. The effect of rhizome age on mineral-nutrient concentrations was more pronounced than the effect of site on these concentrations. The mineral nutrient concentrations were not closely associated with reed performance. 
4201441|We measured the proliferation of roots into experimental nutrient patches in a grassland community, distinguishing roots of graminoids and forbs. Biomass, length, and specific length were estimated for roots of each of the two functional groups, collected from patches differing in nutrient concentration, and established at four different times during a season. The ratio of graminoid and forb roots was compared with the graminoid-forb ratio in the above-ground biomass. Plant roots proliferated more intensively into patches with higher nutrient concentration, but the roots of the two functional groups had a similar ability to target richer patches. Relative proportion of graminoids was higher below-ground than above-ground and changed during the season, being lowest after mowing. Specific root length was higher for graminoid species, but did not respond to nutrient concentration in patches for either functional group. This is the first study to provide comparative information about root morphological response for graminoids and forbs, measured in a real, semi-natural plant community. The study shows no significant overall difference in the ability of these two functional types to place roots into nutrient-rich patches, but indicates other important differences among the two functional groups.
4201347| The acidophilous taxa of the Festuca varia group appearing in the Alps (F. varia Haenke s.str., F. scabriculmis (Hack.) K. Richt. subsp. scabriculmis, F. scabriculmis subsp. luedii Markgr.-Dann., and F. acuminata Gaudin) have been investigated with regard to their taxonomy, phytosociology and ecology. Morphometrical analyses of the different taxa confirm that the division of the species group is justified. Moreover three varieties of Festuca varia s.str. can clearly be distinguished. Apart from the already known F. varia var. varia and var. handel-mazzettii Krajina a new F. varia var. winnebachensis Wallossek et Markgr.-Dann. is described. The ploidy levels of 30 samples from all taxa have been determined by means of flow cytometry. Festuca acuminata is diploid (2n=14), although this taxon occurs in ecologically different habitats within an altitudinal range between 200 and 3100 m. Festuca varia var. varia is tetraploid whereas the other varieties occur in hexaploid populations, which can be associated with inter- or post-glacial migration stages. Hexaploidy was also determined for both subspecies of F. scabriculmis. The phylogenesis of these taxa by allopolyploidy seems possible, as they show a morphologically intermediate position between F. acuminata and the basiphilous F. quadriflora Honck. The spatial distribution and separation of the taxa is shown by means of precise area maps. As a result of a numerical classification of 534 relevs, the Alpine variegated fescue grasslands can be subdivided into six independent phytosociological associations of the Festucion variae: the East Alpine Pulsatillo albae-Festucetum variae, Gentianello anisodontae-Festucetum variae ass. nov. and Seslerio-Festucetum variae ass. nov. as well as the West Alpine Festucetum scabriculmis, Euphorbio cyparissiae-Festucetum luedii ass. nov. and Festuco scabriculmis-Potentilletum valderiae. The mixture of basiphilous and acidophilous species in the Seslerio-Festucetum variae can be explained by soil heterogeneity with acid and alkaline conditions alternating within a very small space. Festuca acuminata can rather be regarded as a rock plant as it preferably occurs in associations of the alliance Androsacion multiflorae. 
23064953|We updated the floristic checklist of the Nizanda region, Isthmus of Tehuantepec (southern Mexico), characterized the occurring plant communities based on dominant species, and described the region's flora according to life form, growth form, growth type, and growth habit spectra. Ten years of botanical exploration, along with surveys in 188 100m samples from different vegetation types, provided the baseline floristic information. Ordination and classification analyses were performed to examine the degree of differentiation between communities. Geographical ranges of all species were used to assess biogeographical relationships of this flora. The inventory includes 920 species (553 genera, 124 families). More than one-third of the families were represented by a single species, whereas the 10 richest families had 43% of the species richness. Dendrograms showing plot classification at three taxonomic levels (species, genus and family) revealed savannah as the most strongly differentiated community amid seven vegetation types. Regarding growth forms, forbs and trees prevailed. Phanerophytes were the most common life form category, whereas herbs and woody plants were the dominant growth types. The largest richness for all taxonomic levels was recorded in the tropical dry forest. The expanded floristic knowledge gained for the Nizanda region provided better criteria to revise the classification scheme of its vegetation. Our preliminary biogeographical analysis illustrates the role of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec as a corridor for thermophilous floras between two oceanic watersheds, and as a natural distributional limit for several Mesoamerican plant species.
25134069|This commentary examines conventional and recent ideas regarding the interpretation of species richness-productivity relationships (SRPR) in terrestrial vegetation. A new conceptual modelling approach - cascading graph diagrams - is used to search for maximum parsimony by distilling and clarifying synthetic linkages between several potential causes of variation and co-variation in these two vegetation attributes at three distinctly different spatial scales: global/continental scale (variation between climatic/geographic regions within a continent, or across latitudes); regional scale (variation between local communities representing different habitat (soil) fertility types or different habitat disturbance levels within a climatic/geographic region); and local community scale (variation between neighbourhood plots within a particular plant community/habitat). In contrast with a number of interpretations in recent literature, the approach developed here emphases that SRPR at each scale in terrestrial vegetation involve a "cascade" of several intermediary causational variables that have not been generally accounted for in previous studies of SRPR. Accordingly, SRPR are expected usually to be correlational, sometimes indirectly causational, but never directly causational, at any scale. Rather than suggesting that causational mechanisms "scale up", the analysis here illustrates that several mechanistic features may be shared across scales and that in some cases, mechanisms may "scale down". This has crucial implications for identifying testable and un-confounded hypotheses for future research and for selecting effective experimental designs and appropriate methods of data analyses for the interpretation of SRPR in natural vegetation.
23064952|The Rengen Grassland Experiment (RGE), set up on a Nardus grassland in 1941, consists of a control and five fertilizer treatments (Ca, CaN, CaNP, CaNP-KCl and CaNP-KSO). In 2005, soil chemical properties were analyzed to investigate the effect of soil variables on biomass production, plant species composition and species richness of vascular plants. Further, the effect of sampling scale (from 0.02 to 5.76 m) on species richness was investigated. Soil properties (plant-available contents of K, P, C:N ratio, and pH) and biomass production were found to be strictly dependent on the fertilizers applied. Diversification of soil P content between treatments with and without P application is still in progress. Biomass production was most positively affected by P and K soil contents under N application. Furthermore, pH had a small positive effect on biomass production, and C:N ratio a moderately negative one. Two types of nutrient limitation were recognized: (1) limitation of total biomass production and (2) limitation of individual plant species. Long-term addition of a limiting nutrient affected the grassland ecosystem in three ways: (1) causing a change in plant species composition without significant increase in total biomass production, (2) causing no change in species composition but with significant increase in total biomass production, and (3) causing substantial change in plant species composition accompanied by significant increase in total biomass production. The explanatory power of all measured soil properties on plant species composition was almost the same as the power of the treatment effect (61.7% versus 62% of explained variability in RDA). The most powerful predictors of plant species composition were soil P, K and Mg contents, pH, and biomass production. The soil P content and biomass production were the only variables leading to a significant negative effect on species richness. An almost parallel increase in species richness with increasing sampling area was detected in all treatments. Constant differences among treatments were independent of sampling area.
23065011|Specific composition and species clonal traits were characterized along combined flooding and grazing gradients to answer two questions. i) To what extent does the interaction of flooding and grazing influence the clonal characteristics of the vegetation? ii) Are the effects of both environmental factors independent or interactive? This study was carried out in a wet meadow along the Atlantic coast (France). Three plant communities (hygrophilous, mesohygrophilous and mesophilous) were distinguished along a flooding gradient and five levels of grazing pressure were controlled through an experimental design (from no grazing to heavy grazing). We monitored species composition and retrieved, for each species, the type of clonal growth organs (CGOs) and clonal traits from the CLO-PLA3 database. We identified two syndromes of clonal traits: "above-ground splitters" and "below-ground integrators". Clonal traits played a key role in plant assembly in the studied meadows. The interaction of both environmental factors selected for particular syndromes of clonal traits; however, flooding had a stronger filtering effect than grazing. The hygrophilous community was dominated by above-ground splitters, whereas the meso-hygrophilous vegetation was dominated by below-ground integrators. In the mesophilous community, clonal composition was the most diverse and shared clonal traits with the vegetation of both the hygrophilous and meso-hygrophilous communities. Grazing impact on CGOs and clonal traits differed between plant communities, i.e., the effect of grazing was modulated by the flooding regime. This study confirmed that vegetation responses to grazing might depend on the pool of traits, primarily filtered by environmental factors such as flooding.
25134032| This study examined seed size distribution, and seed size in relation to phylogeny, growth form and longevity, where seed size is expected to be approximately of a log-normal frequency distribution and correlated with phylogeny, growth form and longevity. We made use of a data set of 229 species from alpine meadow on the east of the Tibetan plateau. Species spanned 10 range of seed size, and the frequency of seed mass classes on a logarithmic scale produced an approximately normal distribution, but largely shifted towards smaller-sized seeds compared to those of the temperate zone and the tropics. It was evident that seed size was strongly related to phylogeny, where order, family, genus and species accounted for 2%, 32.9%, 48.9% and 16.2% of total variation in log seed mass. However, both growth form and longevity did not account for variation in log seed mass, which was opposite to the previously reported patterns of trait correlation. The implications of our results are discussed. 
4201446| Silene subgenus Petrocoptis comprises sexual diploid taxa and it is restricted to calcareous cliffs in the Iberian peninsula. Artificial crosses involving Silene pyrenaica (Bergeret) Mayol et Rossell ( Petrocoptis pyrenaica (Bergeret) Walp.), Silene laxipruinosa Mayol et Rossell and S. montserratii subsp. crassifolia (Rouy) Mayol et Rossell ( P. crassifolia Rouy) were attempted to assess the extent of barriers developed within the subgenus Petrocoptis. Usually, intraspecific crosses involving allopatric populations were successful, suggesting that geographically isolated populations are not genetically isolated. Cross-compatibility was noted among the polymorphic S. pyrenaica, which developed fertile F
4201380| Using the Braun-Blanquet approach, a syntaxonomical revision of the order Hyparrhenietalia hirtae in the western Mediterranean region was made. Various syntaxa were studied with relevs from the Iberian Peninsula, southern France, Sardinia, Sicily and adjacent islands, Balearic Islands, Canary Islands and Morocco. One alliance (Hyparrhenion hirtae), 8 associations (one of them new: Lotononido lupinifoliae-Hyparrhenietum sinaicae) and several subassociations and variants were distinguished. A complete classification of the Hyparrhenietalia hirtae in the studied area with ecological and biogeographical diagnoses is given. 
23064971|A fine-scaled approach for predicting soil acidity using plant species in a spatially limited area (epky Nature Reserve, Slovakia) is presented here. This approach copes with some specific limitations: i) a limited pool of vegetation data may make the predictions too sensitive to the lack of species information, and ii) the predictions may be sensitive to the narrow pH gradient. Vegetation relevs and soil reaction (pH-HO and pH-CaCl) were systematically recorded. A set of species indicator values and amplitudes was calibrated with physical pH data using the Weighted Averaging (WA), HOF modelling and Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMDS) methods, along with Ellenberg indicator values. Two prediction methods were tested: i) WA and ii) Amplitude Overlap (AO). WA prediction with Ellenberg's and WA-calibrated species indicator values were the most powerful technique (R=68.468.7% and 53.459.1% for pH-CaCl and pH-HO, respectively). WA-prediction with HOF-based indicator values was less effective (R=61.7% and 50.7%) due to the decrease in species' information because with HOF modelling many species are assumed indifferent or too rare. The NMDS method does not bring any significant gain to the calibration, though it avoids the lack of species information. The AO method was proven to be less powerful under studied circumstances, because it is sensitive both to the lack of species' information and to the truncation of species responses. The results prove that a spatially explicit approach can provide significant indices to estimate changes in soil acidity  pHCaCl better than pH-HO.
25134140|The European rewardless, bee-pollinated orchid Dactylorhiza sambucina commonly produces yellow-flowered and purple-flowered individuals in frequencies that range from balanced (per population) to very unbalanced, with parts of the species' range entirely monochromatic. We studied male and female reproductive success of the two morphs in 22 populations in the Czech Republic, relating it to morph frequency, population size and density, and presence and abundance of yellow and purple co-flowering nectar-providing species visited by the same bee species. Cumulative abundances of yellow nectar-producing co-flowering species (of which, on average, Primula veris made up 56%) had a negative effect on male reproductive success of the yellow morph, and spectral analyses showed that to bumblebees the colours of P. veris and yellow D. sambucina are different, permitting ready visual discrimination. The cumulative abundance of purple co-flowering species had no significant effect on morph reproductive success. Morph frequencies were unrelated to reproductive success and population size, and there was no evidence of frequency-dependent selection except in one highly unbalanced population. Density of flowering conspecifics was negatively correlated with male reproductive success of the purple morph. Seed mass, viability, and germination success depended on whether seeds resulted from outcrossed or selfed matings and on morph colour. Selfed seeds and seeds produced by the yellow morph from yellow  yellow and yellow  purple crosses had zero germination (after three months), providing the first hint that differential vegetative fitness, rather than differential reproductive fitness via pollinator selection, may explain morph frequencies in D. sambucina.
23064946|Root hemiparasitic plants interact with their host plants through parasitism and competition. The interactions can be divided into aboveground and belowground interactions. Because both groups of plants are autotrophic, they compete for light aboveground. Belowground interactions are more complex. The host plants compete for resources in the soil and the hemiparasitic plants prey on the host plants through haustoria, using the hosts as the main source of water and nutrients. In this paper, we modeled the relationship between these two plant types, extending the well-known Rosenzweig-MacArthur predator-prey model to cover both light competition and intra-specific parasitism among hemiparasites. We included a realistic relationship of carrying capacity to environmental productivity and followed model behavior on a productivity gradient. The model shows that, at very low productivities, there are only a few poor hosts and hemiparasites have no chance to persist. As productivity increases, there is a range of productivity where both plant types coexist. A further increase in productivity gets the system out of the coexistence range, and only host plants survive. This final prediction successfully explains patterns observed in empirical data, contrary to the results of an earlier, oversimplified model of the explored interaction. Comparison of various models demonstrates that the model is able to reproduce the decline of hemiparasites with increasing productivity only when competition for light is included.
25133885|Ecologists have often compared ecological communities in different areas, for example on different continents. The main interest is that the communities might be more similar in the characters of their species than expected under a null model of random species assortment. We suggest that such a null model should be based only on the species observed across the samples. Species-level convergence and community-level convergence must be distinguished. Physical filters (limitation to growth by the physical environment) can give species-level convergence, but only biotic filtering (based on species interactions) can give community-level convergence. Matching to species and species mutual matching must also be distinguished; the process is different, but the same tests work for both. Evolutionary convergence and ecological convergence have been distinguished in the past, but there is little value in this distinction. Even if evolutionary character separation is occurring, the selection involved must be based on ecological sorting, by elimination of genotypes that are too similar. Although ecotypes can be distinguished, the results of evolution by whole species are impossible to distinguish, by present-day observation, from those of ecological sorting. Fortunately, tests for present-day evidence of evolution also work for ecological sorting, and vice-versa. Contrary to suggestions that community convergence is untestable, valid tests do exist. They have already produced some evidence of convergence, but evidence that community-level convergence is a common and general phenomenon remains to be produced.
25133879|The floristic characteristics, age structure and survival modes of Tertiary-relic deciduous forests were analyzed at 1600 m on Mt. Emei (3099 m), Sichuan, China. Three plots were selected to represent typical topographies: Plot 1 at 1620 m on a scree slope, Plot 2 at 1640 m on a slope with moderately rocky soils, and Plot 3 at 1616 m on a gentle slope with less rocky soils. At Plot 1, on the scree slope, the forest was rich in species and dominated by Tertiary remnants and other deciduous trees (Davidia involucrata, Styrax hemsleyana, Cercidiphyllum japonicum var. sinense, Pterocarya hupehensis, Prunus brachypoda, Prunus padus, Tetracentron sinense and Staphylea holocarpa). The relic deciduous tree taxa Davidia, Cercidiphyllum, Tetracentron and Euptelea occupied the unstable concave slopes, where evergreen broad-leaved trees (Castanopsis platycantha and Machilus pingii) were rarely able to survive. On the relatively stable convex slopes of this plot, evergreen trees with small diameter mainly appeared in the subcanopy and shrub layers. Davidia involucrata was the dominant species in this forest. On the slope with moderately rocky soils (Plot 2), the forest was co-dominated by relic Davidia and other deciduous (Styrax and Pterocarya), and evergreen trees (Castanopsis and Machilus). On the gentle slope with less rocky soils (Plot 3), Davidia trees were found only in the subcanopy and shrub layers, and the forest was dominated by Machilus, Castanopsis, Styrax and Prunus trees. Regeneration of Davidia occurs mainly on the scree slope where landslides are most common. The age structure of the Davidia stands indicates that this species is able to survive on the unstable scree habitat due to its strong sprouting ability. The Tertiary-relic deciduous forest on the scree slope is seen to be a topographic climax forest.
25133757| The effect of traditional management on the initial phase of invasion into mesic mown meadows was studied in the Kivokltsko protected landscape area in Central Bohemia, the Czech Republic. In 1996, rhizome fragments of alien species native to Asia, i. e. Reynoutria japonica, R. sachalinensis and their hybrid R. xbohemica were planted in experimental plots and their establishment recorded. Established plants were then subjected to the following six treatments which simulated the management practices traditionally used in the study area: mowing twice a year, grazing by goats and sheep separately at two different intensities, and a control plot. Plant survival was recorded in the two years following planting. In order to compare the effect of the growing period, the experiment with R. japonica was conducted in two subsequent years (1995 and 1996) thus allowing observations over three years on this species. The experiment was carried out in two sites (meadows), with three blocks of treatments established in each. Significantly better establishment was found in R. japonica and R. xbohemica than in R. sachalinensis. Survival of all three taxa was negatively effected by all the management treatments applied (P < 0.001). In control plots with plants of all three taxa, there was virtually no mortality during the growing seasons of either year and the number of surviving plants decreased only in the winter. In the former two species, 38.5  19.4% of plants survived the first winter, the corresponding figure for the latter being only 7.2  6.1%. It can be concluded that traditional management provided it is applied continuously may represent an effective barrier against the invasion of the Reynoutria species. Once ceased, the potential for invasion increases and if invasion occurs, special control measures are required to eliminate the invading plants effectively. 
25133880|This contribution aims to improve our knowledge of the structural peculiarities of natural forest communities in southern Chile, paying special attention to leaf lifespan and morphology. Species are classified into 17 life-form categories. Using information contained in Braun-Blanquet relevs, the relative frequency of the life-form categories, based on quantitative importance such as cover degree (not mere species numbers), is calculated for 26 natural forests. Communities are categorized as belonging to six different types: (A) evergreen forests; (B) forests with mixed laurophyll-deciduous canopy; (C) forests with mixed canopy of sclerophyllous or small / needle-leaved evergreens and deciduous species (specifically C.1 with dwarf-shrub or grass field layer, and C.2 with laurophyll and mesophyll shrubs and a relatively sparse field layer); and (D) deciduous forests (specifically D.1 with laurophyll undergrowth, and D.2 with a herbaceous ground cover). In the gradient from warm and dry to cool and wet, the characteristic composition of the structural elements reflects climatic site properties, revealed by the distribution of the vegetation units. This gradient represents a gradual retreat of evergreen elements from top (upper tree layer) to bottom (undergrowth), which always follows the order from laurophyllous to sclerophyllous elements, and from small or needle-leaved to deciduous elements. Finally, this retreat terminates in the rare structural type characterized by purely herbaceous ground cover beneath a deciduous canopy. Shifts between structural types do not necessarily involve variation in species composition. These units, reacting rapidly even to slight changes in site conditions, seem to be especially well-suited to monitor changing climatic effects. Human impact on forests, resulting in community shifts towards vegetation of warmer and drier habitats, causes structural changes, as does natural disturbance.
25133984|Inoculum of an indigenous mixture of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) containing Glomus mosseae, Glomus fasciculatum, Glomus etunicatum, Glomus intraradices and Scutellospora sp. was applied to four of the most frequently used crop species in Slovenia: green pepper (Capsicum annuum), parsley (Petroselinum crispum), carrot (Daucus carrota) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum). A simple, feasible, and effective protocol for application of AMF biotechnology in horticulture was adopted. Mycorrhizal inoculation significantly increased the plant biomass parameters of pepper, and parsley and the root biomass of carrots. Statistically significant correlations between biomass parameters of pepper, parsley, and the root biomass of carrots with mycorrhizal colonization parameters (mycorrhizal frequency (F%), global mycorrhizal intensity (M%) and arbuscular richness (A%) were calculated. A significant increase in chlorophyll content was observed in mycorrhizal parsley and a significant increase in carotenoids was observed in mycorrhizal parsley, carrots, and tomato fruits. A significant increase in titratable acidity of fruits from inoculated tomato plants indicates prolonged fruiting period of mycorrhizal tomatoes. In addition, inoculation with an indigenous AMF mixture significantly increased the mycorrhizal potential of soil and thus the growth of non-inoculated plants in the second season. Thus, the results confirmed the potential of applying mycorrhizal biotechnology in sustainable horticulture.
23064556|The biodiversity crisis demands that scientists be careful in their application of quantitative methods, because misuse of biodiversity statistics can lead to trivial but real patterns (artifacts) or to false patterns (artifictions). While misuses such as biases in taxonomic ratios, standardization by dividing by area or individuals, and the rarefaction effect have been repeatedly recognized in the literature, they continue to appear regularly in the scientific literature. Here, we illustrate (using data from North American floras and the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve in Oklahoma, USA) examples of how artifacts and artifictions can lead to misinterpretation of biodiversity patterns. We urge biogeographers and ecologists to be vigilant when using biodiversity statistics, to avoid false interpretations.
25134076|Species pool theory claims that diaspore and microsite availability limit species richness in plant communities. Wet meadows (Calthion) and litter meadows (Molinion, Caricion davallianae) belonging to the most species-rich meadows in the foothills of the Alps have suffered from a strong decrease since the 1970s. Restoration efforts including nutrient impoverishment and rewetting management after drainage and fertilization did not result in the re-establishment of the former species richness although the abiotic filter would have been appropriate for the re-colonization of many locally extinct species. In our experiment at four sites in the largest fen of Southwest-Germany we tested if the restoration success was seed-and gap-limited. We applied sowing and hay spreading (hay seed) as treatments to make seeds available and harrowing to increase gap availability. Sowing seeds or hay seed of species of the former meadow types increased species richness immediately. The proportion of re-established species was higher when additional harrowing was applied. Species richness could be increased not only in vascular plants but also in bryophytes when hay spreading was applied. The strongest re-development towards the target communities (defined through the abiotic filter and the species richness before drainage and fertilization) took place on those sites where hay spreading and harrowing were applied. Sowing seeds and hay seed were traditional techniques to establish e.g. litter meadows, both techniques have been applied for centuries. Even harrowing was described as early as the 19th century to increase the chance of establishing certain species. Therefore, the "application of the knowledge coming from the species pool theory" (although not named during this time) has been common practice since at least the 19th century.
4201400| Nasturtium officinale (2n=4x=32), N. microphyllum (2n=8x=64) and N. sterile (2n=6x=48) have been investigated by isozyme analyses to study evolutionary processes within Nasturtium. Four additional species assumed to be involved in the formation of the octoploid N. microphyllum (Rorippa amphibia, R. sylvestris, R. palustris, and Cardamine amara) were also examined. A total of 641 individuals were analyzed for six isozyme systems (alcohol dehydrogenase, aspartate aminotransferase, glutamate dehydrogenase, leucine aminopeptidase, malate dehydrogenase, and phosphoglucoisomerase). Eleven gene complexes coding for 43 allozymes were detected. Fifteen alleles were observed in N. officinale, twelve of them being fixed. All alleles fixed in N. officinale were also present and fixed in N. microphyllum. Seven additional fixed alleles were observed in N. microphyllum. The presence of these seven alleles in Rorippa taxa provide evidence for an allopolyploid origin of N. microphyllum with N. officinale and a Rorippa taxon involved. C. amara is not a parent species of N. microphyllum. N. sterile showed a fixed banding pattern which was identical to that of N. microphyllum. It is argued that N. sterile is a hybrid between N. officinale and N. microphyllum. Human impact has played a major role in the evolution of N. sterile. The formation and persistence of the hybrid were influenced by introducing N. officinale into the natural distribution area of N. microphyllum and by creating ditches and ponds where due to its vegetative capabilities N. sterile could establish. 
25133951|Chromosome numbers for 98 plants of F. pallens, 19 of F. psammophila, F. belensis and F. vaginata, and 44 of F. ovina (originating from Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Slovakia and Latvia) are given. In addition to the F. ovina and F. pallens groups, chromosome counts for the following taxa are also reported: F. alpestris (2n=14) reported for the first time in this work, F. amethystina subsp. amethystina (2n=28), F. brevipila (2n=42), F. cinerea (2n=28), F. rupicola subsp. rupicola (2n=42) and F. versicolor subsp. versicolor (2n=14). In F. pallens, two ploidy levels (2n=2x=14+0-1B, 2n=4x=28+0-1B) as well as two natural triploid plants (2n=21+0-1B), were found. In addition to the four F. pallens types that have been distinguished in Austria, one new tetraploid type (F. pallens "scabrifolia") from the Czech Republic and Germany is reported and its taxonomy is discussed. The distributions of the Obersterreich-Niedersterreich and Pannonisches-Hgelland F. pallens types outside of Austria are documented. Only the diploid chromosome number (2n=14) was found in F. psammophila and F. vaginata. Chromosome numbers for F. psammophila subsp. muellerstollii and F. belensis (both 2n=14) were determined here for the first time. Two ploidy levels, 2n=14+0-5B corresponding to F. ovina subsp. ovina and 2n=28 corresponding to F. ovina subsp. guestphalica and F. cf. duernsteinensis were confirmed in F. ovina. Differences in chromosome structure (simple and multiple secondary constrictions) between F. pallens as opposed to F. psammophila and F. vaginata are discussed. A complete survey of published chromosome counts for Central European species from the F. ovina and F. pallens groups is included.
4201401|Twenty-two provenances of Capsella bursa-pastoris (Brassicaceae) from Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego and 13 provenances from the middle part of South America have been investigated for phenotypic traits (flowering, growth form parameters, fruit characters), isozymes (AAT, GDH, LAP), and RAPDs. Capsella is native to Europe and was introduced into South America in the 16th century. In Patagonia, we detected 23 different multilocus associations, but only five occurred in a frequency of more than 5%. By comparison with the geographic distribution patterns of multilocus genotypes in Europe, we inferred the ancestral European gene pools and the possible introduction routes. A particular multilocus genotype (MMG) was most frequent in the investigated area, and is native to the Iberian Peninsula. This genotype was with all probability introduced by Spaniards into central and northern South America, and it could have reached Patagonia from the north step by step. Other genotypes probably used a direct route from Europe, most likely via British sheep farmers in the second half of the 19th century. Rare genotypes in Patagonia may have been introduced recently by chance, or might be due to multilocus rearrangements in connection with rare outcrossing events. RAPD markers helped to trace colonial gene pools outside Europe and ancestral European gene pools and support the isozyme studies. Correlations between the life history traits and allozyme markers give evidence of the role adaptation may play in the colonizing process.
23064835|We addressed whether ridges, which are ecologically distinct from slopes, harbor specialized plant assemblages with a high representation of endemic species. We surveyed pteridophytes in 28 plots each of 400 m in ridge and slope forests at 2,4302,660 m at three different localities in southeastern Ecuador. Data analysis was based on those 147 species with reliable determinations and excluded 14 undetermined species. Range sizes were expressed as the latitudinal distance between the northern- and southernmost collections, and species were then assigned to range-size quartiles, with the 1st quartile including the 25% most widespread species, etc. Differences in species richness per range-size quartile were determined using G-tests and differences in abundance using ANOVAs. The recorded 147 fern species were represented by 21,800 individuals, including 106 terrestrial (7,300 individuals) and 98 epiphytic species (14,500). Ridges had fewer species than slopes, and there was no higher representation of localized species on ridges. Overall, widespread species were weakly (R=0.03) but significantly more abundant than localized species. Ridges had significantly higher abundances of terrestrial  but not of epiphytic  species compared to slopes, especially among the widespread species of the 1st range-size quartile. The contribution of ridge habitats to overall pteridophyte diversity and as habitats for endemics in our study region is low. Methodologically, the separation of species into range-size classes in an ecological study is novel and effective, as statistically significant patterns were found only for species belonging to the 1st or 4th quartiles.
25134172|Mitotic chromosome numbers are reported from 25 vascular plant taxa, endemic to the Balearic Islands that are poorly known cytogenetically. The chromosome numbers of Anthyllis vulneraria subsp. balearica (2n=12), Cymbalaria fragilis (2n=56), and Polygonum romanum subsp. balearicum (2n=40) were determined for the first time. A new chromosome number was found in several populations of Anthyllis hystrix (2n=70) suggesting that this species is decaploid, in contrast to an earlier work reporting a higher ploidy level (2n=12x=84). The new chromosome number 2n=32 was reported in Hypericum hircinum subsp. cambessedesii. It is suggested that the previous count (2n=40) could be explained by the presence of anomalous pentaploid cells in some tissues, contrasting with the presence of a regular tetraploid complement (2n=32). Cytogenetic observations suggest that Sibthorpia africana has a diploid chromosome complement of 2n=18, with 0-2 accessory chromosomes. Accessory chromosomes are also reported for Phlomis italica, being the first record of B chromosomes in this genus. Chromosomal instability was found in Galium crespianum and G. friedichii species, with three numbers 2n=44, 55 and 66. Two cytotypes differing in ploidy level were documented within single plants. It is suggested that both species share a regular complement of 2n=44 and that the past hybridization events and formation of regenerating roots from the typical rootstock of G. crespianum and G. friedrichii could be involved in the genesis of chromosome variants through partial endopolyploidy and concomitant somatic segregation.
25133755|The hypothesis of a trade-off between vegetative mobility and mycorrhizal infection has been examined. The rate of root arbuscular-mycorrhizal (AM) infection and the extent of vegetative mobility (clonal with annual mobility more than 2 cm, clonal with annual mobility less than 2 cm, and non-clonal) was determined for 77 species in four alpine grassland communities in the Teberda Nature Reserve, the Northwest Caucasus, Russia. The percentage of AM species was similar (74-77%) in all four communities. The mean rate of AM root infection did not differ significantly between four communities. It was shown that vegetatively mobile species (annual mobility > 2 cm) had on average a lower rate of root AM infection than species with low or no vegetative mobility. Our results conform with the mycorrhizal infection-vegetative mobility trade-off hypothesis. Gap-preferring species in a highly disturbed alpine meadow (burrowing activity of small and large mammals) had lower rate of root AM infection than species preferring undisturbed microsites. This pattern was also found within two larger families, viz. Poaceae and Asteraceae.
25134016| Ewald (Folia Geobot. 38: 357-366, 2003, this issue) stated that in Central Europe the number of calcifrequent species is higher than the number of acidofrequent species, while the range of acidofrequent communities is larger than that of the calcifrequent ones. All the explanations considered in his paper are based on an evolutionary spatial and temporal scale. In this paper we are trying to prove that local effects might also be important. Five open rock grassland communities on different bedrocks, viz. rhyolite (acidic), andesite (slightly acidic), calcareous sandstone (slightly calcareous), limestone (calcareous) and dolomite (calcareous) were chosen for the analysis. Two parameters of the species-area curve (i.e., local richness and the slope of log area-species richness line) were estimated based on all species and on rock specialist species separately. With this method we could simultaneously study three attributes of diversity: local species number, the slope of log area-species richness line, and species pool size. We found that the size of the regional species pool is determined by local effects through local richness (slopes do not differ significantly). Consequently, in this case weathering is a more important characteristic for bedrocks than the Ca content. The extremely high number of rock species on dolomite is also determined by local effects; the fine, continuously changing pattern of microhabitats makes the role of competition weaker. The slope of log area-species richness line, calculated for the rock specialist species is unambiguously higher on the calcareous grasslands. The difference can be explained by the smaller species pool on acidic rocks caused by the lower speciation ability. This is supported by the fact that the endemic species of dry habitats are concentrated on the calcareous ones. One possible explanation for the lower speciation ability could be that adaptation to acidic habitats is more difficult than to calcareous ones. The different behaviour of rock specialist species is the consequence of the limited permeability of the surrounding landsape. Hence, on calcareous habitats the arrival of all species from the larger species pool needs more time. 
23065006|Much evidence from laboratory experiments and theoretical studies show that plasticity of clonal growth traits like lateral spread provides advantage in heterogeneous conditions. However, few tests of whether species with plastic clonal growth have an advantage over non-plastic species in natural conditions exist. I analyzed whether spacer length (i.e., length of a stolon or a rhizome branch between two ramets) and the variation of it (as a surrogate to its plasticity) relate to species presence and abundance in open meadow, wooded meadow and forest habitats with varying environmental conditions at Laelatu wooded meadow, Estonia. In fertilized, compared to unfertilized conditions, a weak and non-conclusive advantage of both long spacers and high variability of spacer length was detected. Abandonment in open meadows lead to a prevalence of species with shorter spacers, while on abandoned wooded meadows the species with longer spacers dominated. There was no difference in variability of spacer length between managed and abandoned meadows. In more heterogeneous forest habitats high variability of spacer length was more common, but the effect of lengthy spacers was more pronounced. The results suggest that while the variability of spacer length indeed corresponds with larger abundance in some conditions, the actual length of spacers has a more pronounced relationship with abundance of plants in natural vegetation.
23065012|Plant traits associated with resource acquisition strategies (specific leaf area (SLA), leaf dry matter content (LDMC), leaf size and plant height) change along gradients of soil properties, being the most conservative in a resource-poor environment and the most dynamic in a resource-rich environment. Clonal attributes also vary along soil and other environmental conditions. We hypothesized that in alpine communities in the Scandian Mts. (1) the average composition of traits in a plant assemblage in terms of i) the predominance of different clonal growth organ types, ii) the number of buds in the bud bank, iii) the distribution of the bud-bank (above- and below ground), iv) the distance of lateral spread and v) the longevity of plant  offspring connections would change along a gradient of soil properties and (2) that this variation would be in correspondence with that of traits associated with resource acquisition strategies (SLA, LDMC, leaf size and plant height). Analysis of clonal and bud bank traits for species of alpine communities supported our first hypothesis: with decreasing soil quality the most common clonal growth organs were rhizomes, and there was a predominance of perennial bud banks located at the soil surface or below-ground, low rates of lateral spread and long persistence of plant  offspring connections. Our second hypothesis was partly supported. As predicted, at the level of the plant assemblage, these clonal and bud bank traits were positively associated with LDMC, and negatively with leaf size and plant height. These observations reinforce the hypotheses about trade-offs between acquisition and retention strategies in plants. The only result that was in contradiction with our expectations was the lack of correspondence between clonal and bud bank traits and SLA that could be attributed to errors associated to the measurement of the area of narrow and small leaves or to the dependence of the SLA index on species-specific morphological attributes.
4201415|A constant ratio between species richnesses estimated at the local and regional scale is interpreted as a proof of quasi-neutral unsaturated communities. Based on Zobel's model of plant community (Zobel, Folia Geobot. 36: 3-8, 2001) we tested the methodology of the species-pool concept by comparing the saturated and unsaturated communities generated by spatially-explicit mechanistic simulations with known assembly rules. Tests show that local-regional species plots can be applied to distinguish saturated vs. unsaturated communities, however, the outcome of tests, i.e. the relationship between local and regional richness depends on the size of the areas compared. Independently from the mechanisms controlling diversity, trivial saturation will appear if one of the scales is either too small or too broad because species-area curves are bound at these extreme scales. Similarly, trivial unsaturation will appear if the two scales compared are close to each other. The application of species-area curves is useful because they help to find scales for non-trivial relationships. Field tests reporting quasi-neutrality and unsaturated plant communities were performed at the intermediate scales of the corresponding species-area curves, and they were estimated from heterogeneous samples. Therefore, this field evidence might be biased by scaling artefacts. We propose to reanalyze the field evidence with solid scaling conventions and to restrict the concept of quasi-neutrality to subordinated functional groups based on the following hypotheses: (1) neutrality will appear within subordinated guilds as a consequence of the hierarchical structure of plant communities; (2) the lower a guild in the hierarchy the higher neutrality of within-layer processes detected; (3) quasi-neutrality found at the community level is not a proof of community-level neutrality but it is due to the higher number of subordinated species in the samples.
24572019|The species richness of grasslands generally cannot be fully restored after changes in management. Some species with small statures and basal leaf rosettes can be lost forever. The same species, however, seem to possess the traits necessary for successful re-colonization  they produce small, easily dispersable seeds, numerous seedlings and have lasting seed banks. We tested the hypothesis that plants in species-rich grasslands can be characterized by a negative correlation between their competitive ability and potential for generative regeneration, i.e. by a competition-colonization trade-off. An analysis of the traits of 95 grassland species supported this hypothesis. We then conducted a manipulative experiment in three different meadow communities in the Bl Karpaty Mts. The experiment involved characterizing species traits during periods of different grassland management regimes in the years 19972000 and comparing these with the original management regime, which was restored between 2000 and 2003. We found out that the hypothesis only holds true for the pooled dataset for all three communities. When the individual meadow communities were analyzed separately, plant traits other than those responsible for the competition-colonization trade-off appear to be characteristic of responsive species, e.g. shoot lifespan or phenology. Our results imply that despite the general trade-offs found in large comparative studies, the plant response in a specific community is constrained by the local species pool.
4201328| Chromosome counts and morphological measurements were carried out on Eleocharis uniglumis s.l. samples from nine populations in Slovakia, Hungary, Austria and Croatia. A high polyploid Eleocharis uniglumis s.l. (2n=71-88) was found on halophilous sites: in western Slovakia (Svtojursk r near Bratislava; 2n=71-78), on the Hungarian and Austrian shores of Lake Neusiedlersee (Hungary: Hidegsg; Austria: Tadten, St. Andr am Zicksee; 2n=71-82), and on the Croatian island of Krk, (shores of Lake Jezero and Lake Ponikve; 2n=80-88). These high polyploid populations have the same ploidy level as E. uniglumis subsp. sterneri, described as endemic to the islands of land and Gotland. Morphological similarities between the high polyploids and subsp. sterneri were found both in quantitative features correlated with ploidy level (stomatal length, anther length and fertile glume length) and in other characters (number of perianth bristles, broad sterile glume margins). Differences were detected in the receptacle density and in the length of perianth bristles compared to the length of the achene. Intermediate somatic chromosome numbers 2n=60-70, corresponding to Scandinavian hybrids between E. uniglumis subsp. uniglumis and E. uniglumis subsp. sterneri, were found near Neusiedlersee (Austria: Apetlon, Tadten; Hungary: Hidegsg, Hegyk). These (karyologically intermediate) plants have intermediate stomatal lengths. In other features they are similar to the Central European high polyploids. Eleocharis uniglumis subsp. uniglumis (2n=46) was found here as well (Hungary: Fertrkos). 
25133888| Three pioneer tree species - Salix humboldtiana, Cecropia latiloba, Senna reticulata - form monospecific stands in the Central Amazonian white-water flood plain. In contrast to terra firma forests where species composition is unpredictable even for pioneer species, in Central Amazonian vrzea the occurrence of the main colonizing species seems to be predictable. This predictability is linked to characteristic habitat conditions and the low number of pioneer species. This preference for different habitats is reflected by different germination and early growth, by the structural and physiological characteristics, as well as by the reproductive and morphological adaptations of the three main species. The germination rate was above 90% in all species, and the duration until germination ranged between one day in Salix and 14 days in Cecropia. Stem elongation was more than 10 cm per month in Salix and Cecropia, and about 50 cm per month in Senna. Wood specific gravity ranged from 0.33 g cm in Cecropia to 0.45 g cm in Senna. The annual wood increment increased by 1.20 (Cecropia), 1.23 (Salix) to 2.14 cm per year (Senna). All species produced adventitious roots, lenticels and/or stem hypertrophy. Leaf photosynthesis was between
25134170|Selection within progeny of a facultative apomict, Hieracium rubrum, was studied using flow cytometry of embryos in seeds (a modified method of Flow Cytometric Seed Screen) and seedlings. Flow cytometric screening of particular progeny classes was based on distinct ploidy categories, reflecting the way of their origin. The results of both estimations of progeny composition significantly differed, which makes direct comparison of proportions detected in seeds or seedling stage impossible. The results suggest that progeny originating from reduced egg cells have higher mortality during germination and the early establishment phase than that from unreduced egg cells. Within the progeny of emasculated plants, the proportion of polyhaploid progeny decreased in favor of apomictically derived plants. Within the progeny of plants pollinated by H. pilosella, the proportion of polyhaploid progeny decreased significantly in favor of apomictically derived plants and 2n + n hybrids. It is argued that at least a proportion of the sexually derived progeny of this facultatively apomictic maternal parent has a lower survival rate than apomictically derived progeny.
4201448|Limonium failachicum, a new diploid (2n=18) species of Plumbaginaceae, is described from Arabia. The species is taxonomically related to L. iranicum and L. carnosum. The new taxon is so far the only known endemic species for the State of Kuwait. Ecology and distribution of the new species is briefly discussed.
4201345| The closely related species, diploid Anthoxanthum alpinum . Lve et D. Lve and tetraploid Anthoxanthum odoratum L., have distinct distributions: A. alpinum is an arctic-alpine species, while A. odoratum is a species of lower altitudes and more southerly latitudes. However, some authors suggest that both species are potentially able to maintain their populations in the distribution area of the other species. Reciprocal transplant experiments in two mountain localities (one with A. alpinum, the other with A. odoratum) were carried out to study the survival and vegetative and generative reproduction of tussocks of both species in the area of distribution of the other species. The mortality of tussocks of A. alpinum was higher in the "alien" locality, the life span of tillers was greatly reduced and the size of tussocks decreased considerably during the experiment compared to its "native" locality. These results suggest that there was a lack of favourable microsites for A. alpinum in the "alien" locality probably caused by the presence of strong competitors. A. odoratum flowered far less in the "alien" locality (both on tussocks and tillers) compared to the "native" one. These results suggest that environmental conditions are not suitable for the flowering of A. odoratum in the "alien" locality. We conclude that A. alpinum could have been limited in extending its distribution into the area of A. odoratum by the presence of strong competitors, while A. odoratum could have been limited by its ability to reproduce by seed. 
25133778|Disjunct populations of the perennial herb Gypsophila fastigiata L. (Caryophyllaceae) on the Baltic island of land were monitored during a thirteen-year study. The main objectives were to analyze the dynamic features of G. fastigiata within and among sub-populations in shorter and longer time perspectives, and to relate this to habitat characteristics and patterns in local weather variation. The total number of individuals decreased and the proportion of reproductive individuals increased throughout the study period. Recruitment and mortality on a fine spatial scale (0.25 m) were negatively correlated to species richness and vegetation cover. Rapid changes in population sizes were observed during and after summers with low precipitation. The highest mortality rates were found in pre-reproductive stages whereas relatively many of the adult plants survived the droughts. The long-term trend of population decline in G. fastigiata could be a result of changes in vegetation structure due to changing grazing regimes. It might also be an effect of more frequent dry summers during the second half of the observation period or of an interaction between weather and changes in management. Another interpretation is that dynamic processes are taking place on a geographic scale not covered in the present study.
25133982|The established microplants, mycorrhized and non-mycorrhized controls, were planted in the field and unsprayed (controls), sprayed with a conventional fungicide (Ridomil), with Ridomil alternating with N,O-carboxymethyl chitosan (NOCC - a soluble chitosan) or sprayed only with NOCC. The effects of the treatments on late blight progression in the crop were monitored throughout the season and yield measured. In a preliminary study on the inoculation of detached leaves from unsprayed plants and plants sprayed with Ridomil and NOCC, respectively, NOCC was shown to delay disease development. In the field, late blight development was most rapid in the unsprayed controls, delayed in the Ridomil-treated plants and disease progression was slowed in the other treatments (AMF-inoculation, AMF-NOCC sprayed, NOCC-sprayed and Ridomil-NOCC sprayed). It was shown that plant chitinase activity increased in the AMF, AMF-NOCC and NOCC treatments. At harvest, yields for the Ridomil-NOCC, NOCC and AMF-NOCC treatments were significantly higher than the un-sprayed, non-mycorrhizal control and were not significantly different to the Ridomil-sprayed control. The results are discussed in relation to the production of seed potatoes for organic (ecological) growers.
25134009|The relationship between small-scale species richness and soil pH in plant communities was reviewed using 40 (mainly phytosociological) studies primarily from the northern parts of Germany. Four formations were distinguished (forest, grassland, mire and sand). To examine the above relationship, two approaches were applied: (a) regression analysis using linear and quadratic models, and (b) calculation of the mean pH of the five plots with the highest species density. Despite methodological problems (lack of single plot data in some studies, varying plot sizes, different ways of measuring pH) some general patterns could be identified. In forests, the regressions in most cases indicated a linear or curved increase in species density with increasing pH, whereas maximum species density was, except in one case, found at an intermediate pH of around 5. In contrast, in grasslands and mires, most studies showed hump-backed relationships between species density and soil acidity, and, accordingly, maximum species density was found at moderately high pH between 5 and 6. For sand vegetation, the few studies available revealed an increase in species density with increasing pH. The findings imply that the predominance of calciphilous species vs. acidophilous species in the Central European flora does not always translate into positive relationships between plant species density and pH on a local plot scale. The hump-backed species density-pH pattern may be explained by confounding effects of other environmental factors and of productivity, but also by the large overlap of species tolerances in the middle of the acidity gradient.
23064499|For evolutionary and ecological analyses, genetic diversity at different scales needs to be studied in terms of biological properties, habitat, population size and population history. We surveyed Platanthera bifolia populations from six regions in northeastern Poland to determine the impact of the mating system and population history on genetic diversity. Based on variation at allozyme markers, genetic variation was relatively moderate (P=22.3%, A=1.48, H O =0.083, F IS =0.015) and similar to other Platanthera species. These parameters varied between populations (P=13.3%26.6%, A=1.261.66, H O =0.0550.111, F IS =0.262 0.147). The genetic diversity patterns were shaped by different proportions of facilitated selfing and/or outcrossing, resulting in positive and negative F IS values, respectively. No relationship between inbreeding coefficient and population size, however, and no impact of apomixis on the level of genetic diversity of P. bifolia were found. The relatively low level of genetic differentiation among the investigated regions (F CT = 0.002, P>0.05) and among populations (F ST = 0.048, P<0.001), and the lack of a significant relationship between genetic and geographical distance, are discussed in the context of possible scenaria of postglacial expansion.
23064501|Apomictic microspecies, for example those of the genus Alchemilla, are often difficult to distinguish. Still, their differences are thought to be persistent due to apomixis. Apomicts are argued to have general-purpose genotypes. The present study aims to assess the variation of morphological characters of Alchemilla depending on environmental conditions both in nature and experimentally; to evaluate the efficacy of characters for identifying the different microspecies; to assess the similarity of different microspecies; and to determine if Alchemilla microspecies have general-purpose genotypes that are not dependent on environmental conditions. The variability of selected characters in seven microspecies of Alchemilla was studied in nature and five microspecies were grown in a common garden experiment. The growing conditions of the latter were subjected to various manipulations (fertilization, shading and irrigation). Typical natural habitats of Alchemilla exhibited only small differences. Environmental conditions therefore had little effect on morphological characters. Neither cultivation in the common garden nor manipulation of conditions therein had a significant impact on the discrimination of microspecies. However, the metric characters were larger in the garden relative to those observed in nature, particularly under fertilization. Fertilization affected most characters, whereas shading and irrigation did not. The most effective characters for discriminating between microspecies were the ratios of the metric characters. Two species pairs: A. vulgaris and A. micans, as well as A. glaucescens and A. hirsuticaulis were morphologically close; however, the species within these pairs could still be distinguished. The morphological characters of Alchemilla microspecies were only slightly dependent on the environmental conditions.
25133884|Sources of the extensive morphological variation of the species and hybrids of Potamogeton were studied, especially from the viewpoint of the stability of the morphological characters used in Potamogeton taxonomy. Transplant experiments, the cultivation of clones under different values of environmental factors, and the cultivation of different clones under uniform conditions were performed to assess the proportion of phenotypic plasticity in the total morphological variation. Samples from 184 populations of 41 Potamogeton taxa were grown. The immense range of phenotypic plasticity, which is possible for a single clone, is documented in detail in 14 well-described examples. The differences among distinct populations of a single species observed in the field were mostly not maintained when grown together under the same environmental conditions. Clonal material cultivated under different values of environmental factors produced distinct phenotypes, and in a few cases a single genotype was able to demonstrate almost the entire range of morphological variation in an observed trait known for that species. Several characters by recent literature claimed to be suitable for distinguishing varieties or even species were proven to be dependent on environmental conditions and to be highly unreliable markers for the delimitation of taxa. The unsatisfactory taxonomy that results when such classification of phenotypes is adopted is illustrated by three examples from recent literature. Phenotypic plasticity was found to be the main source of morphological variation within the species of Potamogeton, having much more influence than morphological differences caused by different genotypes.
4201304|Representatives of the genera Cardamine, Dentaria, Nasturtium, Rorippa and Armoracia (Brassicaceae) were analyzed to elucidate their phylogenetic relationships based on nuclear (ITS) and non-coding chloroplast (cp) DNA sequences. Dentaria seems to be polyphyletic. The two studied Dentaria species group with different Cardamine clades, and it is argued that D. bulbifera is an allopolyploid originating from a hybridization between a Cardamine and a Dentaria species. In the ITS tree, Nasturtium and Rorippa form well supported clades but their relationship to Cardamine and Armoracia remains unresolved. In the cpDNA tree, Nasturtium groups together with Cardamine. Hybridization events apparently played a role in the evolution of Nasturtium. The Cardamine/Nasturtium clade is separated from a clade placing Rorippa and Armoracia together. Armoracia is closely related to Rorippa. Analyses of the 19 Cardamine species studied revealed three main groupings, a northern hemispheric and two southern hemispheric groups. Within the northern hemisphere taxa the C. pratensis complex forms a well supported clade which seems to be closely related to C. amara, C. raphanifolia and C. flexuosa. The positions of C. hirsuta and C. impatiens are uncertain. The two southern hemisphere clades consist of New Guinean species and south-eastern Australian/Tasmanian and subantarctic species, respectively. They may reflect migration routes from the northern to the southern hemisphere, but further studies are necessary to fully understand the evolution of the bihemispheric distribution pattern of Cardamine.
23064837|Medicago section Dendrotelis comprises polyploid, woody shrubs restricted to rocky and cliff faces in coastal places of the Mediterranean basin, showing a very close morphology. This has resulted in controversial taxonomic studies, differing in the circumscription and number of recognized species (from one to three). In the present study, cytogenetic studies (meiotic analysis, C-banding, Ag-NOR banding) were made in M. arborea, M. strasseri, and M. citrina to determine their karyological and evolutionary relationships. The observation of meiocytes revealed a regular meiotic cycle in all species. At pachytene stage, chromosomes showed constitutive heterochromatic blocks (knobs) that were species-specific, and clearly discriminate M. arborea and M. strasseri from M. citrina. Conventional karyotypes of M. strasseri and M. arborea were similar concerning chromosome classes, the apparent chromosome length, and the morphology of the single NOR chromosome pair. However, C-banding technique revealed karyotypic differences between both species. In contrast, M. citrina exhibited a slightly asymmetric karyotype, the presence of two pairs of chromosomes showing secondary constrictions, a similar apparent chromosome length, and two pairs of active rDNA loci. Its C-banded karyotype strikingly differed from those observed in M. arborea and M. strasseri, and only three chromosome pairs showed heterochromatic blocks. These cytogenetic data indicate a clear evolutionary split in woody medics (tetraploid vs hexaploid species), reflecting divergent patterns of karyological evolution. Taken together, all karyological data unequivocally support the recognition of M. citrina as a distinct species.
4201444|The potential for sexual reproduction in the facultative apomict Hieracium pilosella was determined by pollinating with the closely related but morphologically distinct H. aurantiacum. The hybrid characteristics of the sexually produced progeny were used as markers for sex. Crossing was carried out under a range of environmental treatments to test the influence of (1) field versus glasshouse conditions, (2) nutrient level and the presence of a pathogen, and (3) photoperiod on the frequency of sex in facultative apomictic H. pilosella. We found significantly more sexual reproduction in the glasshouse than in the field for the two populations tested, but no influence of nutrient level, presence of the pathogen, or individual genotype. Photoperiod was not a significant factor for the single population tested. In several of the experiments seed production was significantly different between the treatments, despite the absence of an effect on the frequency of sex, indicating greater plasticity in this trait. In all three experiments a positive association was found between fecundity and the frequency of sex, with crosses producing sexual progeny having significantly more offspring than those that produced progeny exclusively via apomixis. We hypothesise that the cost of sex in this species may be offset by an increase in fecundity, with the cost of meiosis "diluted" by an increase in total progeny production.
4201384|The presence of autogamy in Hieracium subgen. Pilosella is reported for diploid H. lactucella and tetraploid H. pilosella. Self-compatibility is induced under the influence of pollen from another species (mentor effects).
25134049|Chromosome numbers for Eleocharis palustris subsp. palustris (based on 70 samples from Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Lithuania, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, and Sweden) and Eleocharis palustris subsp. vulgaris (based on 74 samples from Austria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Sweden) are given. Also the chromosome number estimates based on relative DNA contents of plants from 8 localities E. palustris subsp. palustris from Croatia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, Israel, and Slovenia, and from 18 localities of E. palustris subsp. vulgaris from the Czech Republic, Germany and Sweden are included. In E. palustris subsp. palustris, 2n=16 prevailed, the mixoploid 2n=15, 16 was rare and a lone hypoploid 2n=15 was detected. In E. palustris subsp. vulgaris 2n=38 was most frequently detected, the hyperploid 2n=39 and mixoploid 2n=38, 39 were common, and the hypoploid 2n=36 and mixoploids in which 2n ranges from 36 to 42 were rarer. Distribution maps based on plants investigated either by chromosome counting or by flow cytometry, augmented by similar data from published sources are given for both subspecies in Europe.
24571984|FloraGREIF presents an internet-based information tool on the vascular plant flora of Mongolia combining taxon- and record-specific information, text and image information with map information and digitized plant specimens with images of living species and their habitats. Based on an updated checklist as taxonomic backbone, information is split into the "taxon" and the "record" level. At the taxon level the user finds taxonomic diagnoses, habitat information, and species distribution within the floristic regions of Mongolia. The latter is visualized in a Web GIS application. The record level offers information for all records assigned to one taxon, which may include locality data only or additional, high-resolution scans of herbarium specimens combined with images from living species and their habitats. Several query masks allow a flexible search and display of species lists. The interactive Web GIS application links taxon or record information with various map layers, comprising administrative units, topography and orography, floristic regions and vegetation zones of Mongolia. They present background information for the display of species distribution or record localities. FloraGREIF offers a virtual research environment to make the substantial information on Mongolia's flora mainly published in Russian accessible to the public.
4201420|Bryophytes form one-layered communities, which provide good opportunities to test predictions of the species pool hypothesis. The prediction that competitive exclusion occurs rarely, if at all, in established communities seems to hold for many types of bryophyte vegetation, but the drastic effects on local diversity of some invading exotic species suggests, that this may be partly due to the "ghost of competition past". In a survey of bryophyte communities on earth banks, variation in species number per stand was rather larger than predicted by the species-pool hypothesis. Large differences in accessibility of the stands may have played an important role in this respect. Small-scale repeated chartings and permanent grid studies suggest, that competitive exclusion hardly ever occurs in a range of terrestrial bryophyte communities. Evidence for interspecific competition (as derived from small-scale association between behaviour - increase or decrease in grid cells - of species pairs) was equally rare, but this may have been due to interaction with positively density-dependent facilitation effects. However, a rigorous proof of the hypothesis that facilitation may prevent competitive exclusion is still lacking.
25133943|The montane and subalpine forests of a mountain range in northwestern Montana were investigated using phytosociological and numerical methods. Twelve associations and two subassociations were identified, of which eight are described here for the first time. The forest vegetation of valleys and lower slopes is strongly affected by repeated fire and is placed in the new order Calamagrostio-Pseudotsugetalia glaucae, which includes temperate, low elevation forests in inland regions of northwestern North America. These forests bear only weak resemblance to forests traditionally assigned to the class Vaccinio-Piceetea, and occupy the habitats filled by broad-leaved forests elsewhere at temperate latitudes. Montane and subalpine forest vegetation is moister and has longer snow duration and a shorter growing season. Upper montane vegetation more closely resembles that of other temperate montane forests of the class Vaccinio-Piceetea.
25134015|The study of the disparity concerning the sizes of calcicole and calcifuge floras in Central Europe is a surprisingly young scientific branch. Accordingly, explanations of the patterns have not yet been consolidated. In this paper, we comment on the solution of the "calcareous riddle" proposed by Jrg Ewald (Folia Geobot. 38: 357-366, 2003). On the basis of flora and vegetation data bases, we tested the phenomenon of calcicole richness by analyzing the forest vegetation and the flora of Switzerland and found corresponding patterns. A clear overbalance of calcareous forest habitats contrasts with an overbalance of acidic topsoils, as derived from a large representative sample in Swiss forests. Calcicole/calcifuge ratios reveal an overbalance of calcicoles in most mapping units of the distribution atlas of vascular plants in Switzerland. Central crystalline parts of the Alps, however, show a clear overbalance of calcifuges. Patterns from the different community and regional scales are explained by (micro-)habitat diversity. With respect to the "calcareous riddle", we question several assumptions, e.g. the time considered before the Pleistocene bottleneck, the area considered for speciation/extinction, and the role of habitat diversity rather than two substrate classes.
24571979|Using visual estimation of species cover in ordinal interval classes may reduce costs in vegetation studies. In phytosociology, species cover within plots is usually estimated according to the well-known Braun-Blanquet scale and ordinal data from this scale are usually treated using common exploratory analysis tools that are adequate for ratio-scale variables only. This paper addresses whether the visual estimation of ordinal cover data and the treatment of these data with multivariate procedures tailored for ratio-scale data would lead to a significant loss of information with respect to the use of more accurate methods of data collection and analysis. To answer these questions we used three data sets sampled by different authors in different sites of Tuscany (central Italy) in which the species cover is measured with the point quadrat method. For each data set we used a Mantel test to compare the dissimilarity matrices obtained from the original point-quadrat cover data with those obtained from the corresponding ordinal interval classes. The results suggest that the ordinal data are suitable to represent the plot-to-plot dissimilarity structure of all data sets in a reasonable way and that in using such data there is no need to apply dissimilarity coefficients specifically tailored for ordinal scales.
4201418| The species richness of a community depends both on the pool of available species and on biotic mechanisms that lead to the exclusion of some of the species from a community. The method suggested by Prtel et al., Oikos 75: 111-117, 1996 to test the effect of species-pool size on the species richness of a community is discussed in this paper. This method is based on the calculation of a correlation between the actual species richness of a community and the actual species-pool size, and compares the correlation found in the data with that simulated by a null model. In the null model, the species richness has a uniform distribution between zero and the size of the species pool. A correlation significantly higher than that in the null model is interpreted as evidence of the greater role of species pool than of local interactions in formation of community species richness (Zobel, Folia Geobot. 36: 3-8, 2001). It is shown that the interpretation of discrepancies between the null model and reality is difficult or impossible, because: (1) a null model with a uniform distribution of species richness is unrealistic, (2) both models based on the random selection of species from a species pool and models that include competitive interactions in the community predict a higher positive correlation of species richness and size of the species pool than the null model, and (3) local species richness might be affected by species-pool size, but a large species-pool size can also be a result of high local species richness. Caution is urged when interpreting the analyses based on the size of the filtered species-pool size. 
25134022|The paper brings data set of seed reproduction of about 500 wild herbaceous species of Central Europe and presents a number of produced seeds in a new way. Number of seeds - reproductive capacity of a population (RCP) was defined as a number of seeds produced by one species per 1 m at its one-hundred-per-cent cover per one season. About 23% of seed weight variability and about 26% of variability in RCP were explainable on a family level. The trade-off between RCP and seed weight was confirmed both within families and also among families. Both characteristics had higher variability on a family level and on lower taxonomic levels than on subclass and class levels. Species with an annual life cycle have a larger number of seeds than perennials. Geophytes and species without lateral spread have a tendency to produce a large amount of relatively weighty seeds in comparison to other life forms, and to species with vegetative lateral spread. Species with seeds dispersed by wind usually have a large number of lightweight seeds. Multivariate analyses confirmed some tendencies of reproductive traits which correspond to the definition of C-, S-, R- strategies by Grime - "verification" of the RCP as ecological trait. The R- strategy was well distinguished from the C- and S- strategies by reproductive traits, whereas C- and S- strategies are very similar to each other. Species with insect pollination agent often correspond to C- strategy, wind agent to S- strategy, and species with self-pollination to R- strategy.
25133777|Dispersal limitation is often involved when the species composition of a dry abandoned grassland shows a slow response to resumed regular mowing. A seed-addition experiment, using 32 species which do not belong to the local species pool, was performed on Monte San Giorgio (southern Switzerland) to test whether the low recruitment success was due to dispersal limitation or due to unfavourable microsite conditions. In October 1997, 20 species were individually sown in six 3  4 m blocks of a 2  2 factorial "partial" split-plot design with treatments of abandonment vs. mowing and undisturbed vs. root-removed soil, this last being applied in small naturally-degradable pots. Moreover, 12 species were sown only in the treatments on undisturbed soil. Seedlings of sown and spontaneously germinating seeds were observed on 16 occasions over one 12-month period. Seeds of 31 out of the 32 species germinated. Twenty-four species showed germination rates higher than 5% and different seasonal germination patterns. Established vegetation, especially the tussocks of Molinia arundinacea, reduced the quality of microsites for germination. Whereas a few species germinated better under the litter of Molinia arundinacea, many more germinated better under the more variable microsite conditions of a mown grassland. Only a few seedlings of 25 species out of the 31 germinated species survived until October 1998. Seedling survival was negatively affected by litter, unfavourable weather conditions (frost and dry periods followed by heavy rains) and herbivory (slugs and grasshoppers). Tussocks of Molinia arundinacea, however, tended to protect seedlings. The poor establishment success of "new" species observed in abandoned meadows on Monte San Giorgio after resumed mowing is due to dispersal and microsite limitations.
23064986|The structure of 42 natural populations of the endangered fern Osmunda regalis was studied at the southern limit of its European distribution. The aims were to i) investigate the population structures and status of the species; ii) test which local habitat and population characteristics correlate with the different population structures in the Mediterranean area; iii) evaluate which habitat types are suitable to support viable populations. The structure of populations is determined by the attribution of different stages of development of the sporophyte. This study documented the life-stage structure of O. regalis using an original classification of life stages that may be applicable to other fern populations with similar morphology. Using statistical analyses we distinguished: i) dynamic populations, which are characterized by a large proportion of sporelings and vegetative adults and are associated with streams and nemoral species; ii) stable populations, with a higher proportion of generative adults, growing prevalently in habitats rich in hygrophilous grasses and shrubs, with lower tree cover; iii) senile populations, with a relatively higher proportion of senescent individuals and with marked rejuvenation dominated by vegetative adults, which are prevalently located in spring swamps. The proportion of senescent stage individuals is positively correlated with the mean geographic distance between populations. Spring swamps, with populations that provide a clear example of remnant dynamics, are the habitat with the most stable conditions for O. regalis in the Mediterranean area.
4201277| We describe vegetation-environment relationships in the saltmarshes of central Argentina. Gradient analysis (Detrended canonical correspondence analysis, DCCA) was performed involving 14 parameters of the groundwater that account for most of the variation in plant communities. We used a stepwise multivariate procedure to classify the vegetation data into 8 clusters, named according to the most abundant characteristic species: Chloris canterai, Cynodon dactylon, Distichlis spicata, Spartina densiflora and Paspalum vaginatum clusters, containing relevs of tall grassland communities, and Atriplex undulata, Cyclolepis genistoides and Heterostachys ritteriana clusters, containing relevs from scrub. Our interpretation of DCCA ordinations suggests that vegetation pattern is primarily related to a salinity-moisture gradient. There is a strong relationship between vegetation type and the amount of salt in the groundwater and the pattern of its variation during the year. The depth of the groundwater and the conditions of submersion are also related to the compositional variation of the vegetation. Although flooding causes some differences between sites, the most important discriminant variable, and therefore the best predictor of floristic variation, is salinization. 
23064988|Eighteen chromosome counts are reported in nine Mediterranean Romulea species. Among them, four species have a wide distribution range (R. bulbocodium, R. columnae, R. ramiflora and R. rollii) and five are narrow central Mediterranean endemics (R. bocchierii, R. ligustica, R. linaresii, R. requienii and R. revelieri). Chromosome numbers range from 2n=3x=27 in one R. columnae accession to 2n= 6x=54 in R. linaresii. Our results only partially agree with previous reports, and the chromosome number records of R. bocchierii, R. ligustica, R. linaresii subsp. linaresii and R. revelieri presented here are completely new. According to our data and contrary to previous statements, x=9 seems to be the basic chromosome number in this group of Mediterranean Romulea. Moreover, a highly significant negative correlation between the chromosome size and ploidy level was found.
25134139|Almost one-third of all species in the family Orchidaceae offer no reward to insect pollinators. In the absence of a reward, floral display (number of flowers), may be the most important component of insect attraction but the role of floral display in capsule production of both deceptive (nectarless) and rewarding (nectariferous) orchids has not yet been satisfactorily explored. Based on our theoretical considerations, we propose and test here the following hypotheses: (i) deceptive species flower earlier than rewarding ones, (ii) reproductive success in deceptive species is lower than that in rewarding ones, (iii) reproductive success is independent of the number of flowers in the inflorescence in both deceptive and rewarding orchids. Our data supported hypotheses (i) and (ii). In 9 out of our 12 populations of deceptive species and in 10 out of 12 populations of rewarding species we found support for our hypothesis (iii).
23486779|In temperate mountains, fens have been reported as relict habitats subject to geographical fragmentation and broad climatic gradients, but few studies have analyzed the influence of these factors on plant diversity. Here we investigate the effect of isolation on the vegetation diversity of rich fens (Caricion davallianae) in the mountains of the Iberian Peninsula, the distribution limit of these habitats in south-western Europe. We used plot-based vegetation data from the Pyrenees and the Cantabrian mountain range to evaluate their regional species-pool, occurrence of specialists, beta-diversity and the effect of geo-climatic variables on their species-richness and species-composition. We found a lower ratio of rare specialists in the Pyrenees than in the Cantabrian range, but similar estimates in the species pools, total species-richness per plot and beta-diversity. The isolation of the two mountain regions resulted in different species assemblages best predicted by summer precipitation and bedrock types, showing region-based differences in the response of vegetation and plant specialists to the environment. The tighter correlation between local climate and diversity estimates in the Cantabrian range suggests relict character of rich fens in that region, where climatic conditions have restricted local distribution of formerly more widely distributed specialists. Although there is no relevant evidence of vegetation impoverishment in that region, historical isolation has probably resulted in the existence of fragmentary plant communities. We conclude that fen vegetation may experience long-time persistence in climatically sub-optimal mountain refugia, but related plant specialists may be sensitive to climatic changes and subject to the extinction of local populations.
25134108|The restoration of species-rich grasslands is often hindered by high residual soil fertility as a result of, e.g., intensive farming. The establishment of a diverse range of target species on such sites requires the reduction of soil fertility or of the vigour of competitive plants. Current methods to achieve these aims are often unsuccessful or complicated and expensive. It has been suggested that Rhinanthus species could be used to decrease the growth of competitive plants and enhance species diversity. We review evidence for this potential and suggest five key attributes that make Rhinanthus species a practical restoration tool. Rhinanthus species are natural components of species-rich grasslands (attribute 1), and seed of some species is relatively low cost and easily obtainable (2). Recent work has shown that certain Rhinanthus species reduce the vigour of competitive species, especially agricultural grasses, and allow establishment and persistence of target species (3). We analyze demographic data and show that certain Rhinanthus species have the ability for rapid population growth and spread, even in fertile grasslands (4). We also show that it is relatively easy for land managers to limit the population size of Rhinanthus species and prevent damage (e.g. excessive loss in production or invasion by weeds) to grasslands by excessive densities (5). We give suggestions for further research, including: the range of species-poor grasslands into which Rhinanthus can be introduced successfully and which Rhinanthus species should be used; the mechanisms by which Rhinanthus enhances diversity in restored grasslands; whether the ecotype or subspecies of Rhinanthus used affects restoration success; how management methods affect population growth and spread of Rhinanthus; and whether other parasitic plants could be used in habitat restoration.
25133846| Chromosome numbers are reported for 15 taxa of Hieracium sect. Alpina (Griseb.) Gremli from Central and eastern Europe (Austria, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Ukraine). The mode of reproduction was also studied for some of the taxa. For the first time the chromosome counts of 5 taxa from the Hieracium rohacsense group are given: H. rohacsense Kit. (the West Carpathians), H. ratezaticum (Nyr. et Zahn) Mrz (the South Carpathians) and a still unnamed taxon of the H. rohacsense group from Mt. Pop Ivan (the East Carpathians) are tetraploid (2n=36); H. rauzense Murr (the Eastern Alps) and H. borsanum Mrz (the East Carpathians) are triploid (2n=27). H. krivanense (Wo. et Zahn) Schljakov (the West Carpathians) is tetraploid, H. brevipiliferum Mrz (the South Carpathians) is triploid; these are the first karyological reports of both taxa belonging to the H. fritzei group. The tetraploid chromosome number was revealed for the first time in an unnamed taxon of the H. nigrescens group from the West Carpathians, and in H. nigrescens subsp. koprovanum Rech. f. et Zahn. In H. alpinum L. s.str. triploid (2n=27) populations from the West Carpathians and diploid populations (2n=18) from the East Carpathians were confirmed. For H. halleri Vill. (the H. alpinum group, the West Carpathians) and H. nigrescens Willd. (the West Sudeten), the numbers 2n=27 and 2n=36, respectively were found, which is in accordance with previous data. The triploid level (2n=27) for H. pinetophilum (the H. fritzei group) and the tetraploid level (2n=36) for H. stygium Uechtr. (the H. chlorocephalum group) both from the West Carpathians were confirmed. One new species, one nomen novum and one new combination at the level of species are published in this paper. 
24571982|Coastal dune ecosystems show strongly dynamic interactions between abiotic and biotic factors. The relationship between plant communities and environmental factors has been previously studied in oceanic dune systems, but few studies have been conducted along Mediterranean coasts. In this study we analyze the relative contribution of environmental factors associated with two of the main drivers of vegetation zonation: soil and wind. We chose two representative coastal dune systems in the western Mediterranean Basin subject to low levels of human disturbance. Within 54 plots we recorded floristic and environmental data. Vegetation zonation and relationships with environmental variables were investigated through unconstrained and constrained ordinations, correlation, and variance partitioning. Environmental factors shift along the gradient from coastal to inland dunes, concomitantly with the pattern of community types from annual beach communities to shrub-covered fixed dunes. This general gradient is similar both in the Mediterranean and in the oceanic coastal ecosystems, with the same factors that show similar trends along the dune profile. However, our results highlight some peculiarities of the Mediterranean dune systems in relation to the amount of variation explained by environmental factors. While most studies conducted in oceanic ecosystems find that wind-related parameters may control the vegetation zonation, in our study areas we observed a minor importance of the wind-related variables when compared to soil properties. In particular, organic matter and grain-size variability were found to be closely correlated with the distribution of plant communities along the gradient.
23064503|A new diploid (2n=30) species, Rhaponticoides calabrica, is described from Calabria and Basilicata (southern Italy). This species differs from the closely related R. centaurium  an endemic of Apulia and northern Basilicata  by different flower colour (white in the former, purplish in the latter), width of membranous margin of phyllaries (1.80.4 mm vs 0.80.3 mm) and pappus length (6.80.9 mm vs 9.1  1.0 mm). The two species are completely allopatric and seem to have also different chromosome numbers.
23064954|We determined the climate-sensitive zones along an altitudinal gradient in a low mountain range forest, the Bavarian Forest National Park in south-eastern Germany, and studied which vascular plant species are likely to respond to climate change. Plants were recorded on 273 plots along four straight transects. The composition of the plant species and their environmental correlates were detected using unconstrained correspondence analysis (DCA) with post-hoc correlation of axes against site variables. We tested the effect of site variables on species composition using maximally selected rank statistics, which allow the simultaneous identification of a threshold and assessment of its significance. Species turnover within the vascular plant community along the altitudinal gradient was assessed using the same method on the basis of the DCA sample scores. Using geostatistical models of local temperature and Bayesian methods with binomial errors that account for spatial structure, we tested the influence of temperature on selected single vascular plant species and assessed the suitability of the species as climate change indicators. Temperature was the most important factor explaining the variability in vascular plant community composition, which changed discretely along the altitudinal gradient, with a climate-sensitive zone found between 1,100 and 1,200 m a.s.l. The distribution of ten species with their lower or upper altitudinal limit in this zone was significantly driven by temperature. To track vegetation responses to climate change effectively, we suggest a three-level monitoring program, flexible with regard to the volume of required sampling effort.
25133981|The growth response of an ornamental Rhododendron hybrid to the inoculation with Phialocephala fortinii was studied in two pot experiments in order to decide about the effectiveness of the inoculation of young rhododendron microplants. Two different substrates were used in both experiments, either sterilized or non-sterilized: a horticultural substrate and a soil collected from a field site with dominant ericoid vegetation. Two fungal isolates were used for an inoculation: P. fortinii strain P (UAMH 8433) and P. fortinii strain F, a dark septate endophyte (DSE) previously isolated from naturally-infected roots of Vaccinium myrtillus. Both Phialocephala strains successfully colonized the roots of the host plants forming typical DSE (=pseudomycorrhizal) colonization pattern including the formation of intracellular microsclerotia. However, pseudomycorrhizal colonization did not affect the growth parameters of the host rhododendrons. The results from both experiments indicate a neutral effect of the inoculation with DSE fungi on the growth of Rhododendron cv. Belle-Heller.
25134100|The annual hemiparasite Euphrasia stricta occurs on Gotland in two early-flowering meadow varieties. E. stricta var. suecica is on the Swedish red-list as endangered, occurring in Sweden only on the Baltic island of Gotland. It probably has near relatives east of the Baltic proper. The other variety, E. stricta var. tenuis, has a wider distribution occurring almost all over Sweden, but is declining in abundance. Both varieties have close morphological similarities and habitat preferences, raising questions about which level conservation efforts should be focused on, varieties or populations. In this study we describe the genetic structure between and within these two varieties using amplified fragment length polymorphism, AFLP. $F_{{\rm ST}}$ between varieties is 0.14, and between populations within the varieties E. stricta var. suecica and var. tenuis $F_{{\rm ST}}$ is 0.60 and 0.26 respectively. The partitioning of gene diversity to different levels shows that 14% of the genetic diversity occurs between varieties, 42% between populations within varieties, and 44% within populations. Significant genetic differentiation was detected between varieties, populations and subpopulations within populations using a constrained principal coordinate analysis. We suggest that all of the existing populations of these two varieties on Gotland should be preserved, since they are few (6 E. stricta var. suecica and 5 E. stricta var. tenuis) and much of the genetic diversity is partitioned between populations.
25134142|Many woodland herbs are long-lived, clonal geophytes that have evolved life histories favoring survival over reproduction. We examined the life history responses of natural populations of two woodland orchid species, Cypripedium calceolus and Cephalanthera longifolia to defoliation and heavy shading conducted early in the growing seasons of 2002 and 2003. We asked whether, in view of the importance of growth for the survival of geophytes, treated plants were more likely to exhibit reduced flowering than reduced vegetative growth in the seasons following treatment. We also asked whether plants would suffer reduced ramet performance. Both treatments led to significant declines in flower number per ramet, number of leaves per ramet, and mean ramet height relative to controls in Cypripedium. However, in Cephalanthera, only shaded plants exhibited significant declines in flower number per ramet, and only defoliated plants exhibited declines in mean ramet height. The number of ramets per plant did not decline relative to controls in either species. Thus, these orchids, especially Cypripedium, appeared to allocate resources preferentially to vegetative growth functions over sexual reproduction. Per-plant variation in leaf and flower number per ramet, as well as in mean ramet height, consistently declined in response to treatment, significantly so in the case of mean ramet height, suggesting that ramets became more similar within genets. These results suggest both similarities and differences in the ways in which Cephalanthera and Cypripedium mobilize resources in response to stress.
23264904|Vernonia is the largest genus of the tribe Vernonieae (Asteraceae) and comprises more than 1,000 species. In the present study we explore chromosome number and karyotype variation of eight species treated within different subsections of the section Vernonia sect. Lepidaploa. We aimed to explore if these data support the recognition of a single large genus (sensu Baker) or favor its splitting into 22 small genera (sensu Robinson). The species were collected in "cerrado", rupicolous and disturbed areas in the states of So Paulo and Minas Gerais, Brazil. Chromosome numbers varied from 2n=32 to 60. Most chromosomes were small, and the karyotype analysis revealed a predominance of metacentric and some submetacentric chromosomes. The karyotype symmetry in Vernonia was moderate (TF% 32.2 to 45.9), with the most symmetrical karyotype observed in V. rubriramea. The results obtained here did not conclusively support any of the taxonomic proposals for Vernonia due to the absence of distinctive or characteristic karyotype patterns for any of the taxonomic groupings, i.e., sections and subsections (sensu Baker) or new genera (sensu Robinson). Nevertheless, a tenuous relationship was observed between the chromosome numbers reported in the literature, those recorded here, and the taxonomic alterations suggested by Robinson for the genera Lessingianthus, Chrysolaena, and Vernonanthura that were originally part of Vernonia sensu Baker.
25133788|This paper presents a re-assessment of the evidence of beech (Fagus sylvatica) presence on the NW Iberian Peninsula in the different stages of the Late Quaternary. For this purpose, numerous pollen diagrams were re-examined and the present-day distribution of the species was documented. Beech pollen has been recorded in different periods, before the Wrm Pleni-Glacial, during the Late Glacial and the Holocene, leading to the hypothesis that there existed local refugia for Fagus sylvatica in the NW Iberian Peninsula, comparable to those in more eastern areas of southern Europe, the existence of which has been recognized. This hypothesis explains Fagus' present biogeographical range without recourse to the theory of migration from the Pyrenees through the Cantabrian region. However, there is no evidence that this species experienced a period of expansion or dominance in the vegetation in the northwestern Iberian Peninsula, unlike in the other parts of the Peninsula such as the western Pyrenees and the eastern Cordillera Cantabrica.
25134035| Flow cytometry was used to determine ploidy levels in the Czech and Slovak taxa of the genus Pseudolysimachion (W.D.J. Koch) Opiz (= Veronica auct. p.p., Scrophulariaceae). In total, 123 populations from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Ukraine (one locality), Austria (one locality) and Hungary (one locality) were analyzed. In P. maritimum (L.) . Lve et D. Lve and P. spicatum (L.) Opiz, two cytotypes were found: diploid (2n=2x=34) and tetraploid (2n=4x=68). In both species the tetraploid cytotype predominated (P. maritimum: 41 tetraploid populations out of 45; P. spicatum: 57 tetraploid populations out of 58). The two cytotpes of P. maritimum have no taxonomic significance because ploidy level is not obviously correlated with morphology, distribution pattern or ecology. Tetraploid populations of P. spicatum belong to two morphologically different subspecies, subsp. spicatum and subsp. fischeri Trvnek. The diploid cytotype (one population only) should be provisionally classified as a third subspecies of P. spicatum, which is morphologically similar to the Asian subsp. porphyrianum (Pavlov) Trvnek. Only diploid plants (2n=2x=34) of P. orchideum (Crantz) Wraber were found; all 13 populations that were analyzed belong to P. orchideum s.str. One diploid population sample of P. spurium subsp. foliosum (Waldst. et Kit.) Holub (2n=2x=34) and one tetraploid sample of P. incanum subsp. pallens (Host) Trvnek (2n=4x=68) were also analyzed. In addition, three tetraploid populations of hybrid origin were investigated: P. maritimum  P. spicatum subsp. spicatum (one population) and P. maritimum  P. spurium subsp. foliosum (two populations). While hybrid plants of P. maritimum  P. spicatum arose from tetraploid parental species, plants of P. maritimum  P. spurium probably resulted from a cross between tetraploid P. maritimum and diploid P. spurium. The putative origin and evolutionary importance of polyploids in the Pseudolysimachion are discussed. 
25133789|A description of the bog-pine (Pinus uncinata var. rotundata) dominated vegetation of uncut oligotrophic mires affected by drainage is given. Surveys were carried out at 17 sites along the Jura Mountains (Switzerland and France) in 1993, 1994, and 1995. Raised bogs of the Jura are generally of small size, and most vegetation changes in them have occurred as a result of the indirect impact of peat cutting. This activity led to the peat drying out and to colonization by trees, in particular by bog-pines. Integrated synusial phytosociology was used to describe the vegetation where bog-pine, spruce, and birch occur. Two spatio-temporal levels of organization were considered: the synusia and the phytocoenosis. At the phytocoenosis level, four vegetation types representing bog-pine stands of uncut and deep oligotrophic peats are described with their constitutive synusial composition. They represent: (1) phytocoenoses developing in the open, wet central parts of the bogs, where trees are scattered and of small size, (2) phytocoenoses with layered tree stands of medium size and with a higher density, and (3) phytocoenoses with tall trees, developing generally near the edge of the bogs or close to peat cuttings. A generalized qualitative dynamic model of the vegetation in relation to the development of bog-pine trees was developed. It shows the spatial and temporal organization of the constituent synusiae, as well as other underlying hypothetical functional relations. The different bog-pine-dominated vegetation types described in this study appear to have coexisted since the origin of the Jura bogs as a result of local polyclimaxes induced by differential waterlogged situations. They probably all belong to the same (primary) successional series, but have been affected by both autogenic and allogenic processes. During the development of the bogs the balance between the different communities changed. In particular, the vegetation types with dense and tall pine trees have undergone a drastic expansion since the Jura bogs were first affected by drainage.
25134148|Grassland seed banks are traditionally considered a source of new species in degraded communities. However, many recent studies have shown that the potential of the seed bank to restore many communities is rather limited. Two principal reasons for these limitations, loss of species from the seed bank or inability of the species to create any seed bank, are, however, usually not distinguished. This study aims to assess the role of seed bank composition and heterogeneity in the restoration of species-rich plant communities. It was carried out in mountain grasslands in the eastern part of the Krkonoe Mountains, Czech Republic. The composition of vegetation and seed bank were recorded and their relationship was assessed in 1.5 m  1.5 m plots placed in non-degraded and degraded parts of seven grasslands. Vegetation at currently managed sites is not degraded; degraded parts were without management (dominated by Holcus mollis, Bistorta major or Rumex alpinus). The degree of heterogeneity of seed bank and vegetation was tested as the relationship between subplot similarity, distance, and degradation stage. Degradation had significant effects on composition of both aboveground vegetation and seed bank and increased heterogeneity both in the vegetation and in the seed bank. Species absent from the vegetation of degraded plots were also absent from the seed bank of both degraded and non-degraded plots, indicating that the absence of species from the seed bank is not due to their loss during the degradation process but rather due to the low number of seeds in the seed bank already in the non-degraded communities. Furthermore, the seed bank of the degraded communities largely results from the present vegetation of these communities. This supports the limited role of the seed bank in these communities. Restoration of these sites is thus impossible unless management will include methods with which seeds will arrive at the degraded sites.
4201307|It is argued that the taxonomic rank of species is now used for a very wide range of biological situations, from well-marked taxa that hybridize promiscuously to strict inbreeders, and that it should therefore be used equally in apomictic groups. Further, it is considered that the hierarchical variation found within such agamospecies should be designated by the usual ranks of subspecies, variety, etc., thus rendering the use of special terms for apomictic groups obsolete.
23064983|In this study we analyzed if characteristic calcareous grassland species persist in forest habitats after land use change. Furthermore, we investigated whether the current distribution of such species is related to historical land use of the mid19th century. Current distributions of nine calcareous grassland species were recorded in a region of Upper Franconia, Germany. Historical (up to 1850) and current land-use data were analyzed using historical maps and aerial photographs. To study the effects of historical land use in current species distributions, we used Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) and ANOVA, accounting for spatial autocorrelation. Variance partitioning was applied to separate the influence of historical versus current land use. On average 26% of the recorded grassland species occurrences are located in sub-optimal forest habitats. Grassland populations are likely to persist in forest for at least 50 years. Even though current land use explains a higher proportion of the variation in species distribution than historical land use alone, model fit could be significantly improved (P<0.001) considering the historical component. We conclude that consideration of historical land use is essential to understand the current grassland species distributions and may be of general importance for perennial species of temperate grasslands. In addition, historical legacy has far-reaching implications for conservation biology in terms of realistic assessments of species threat status in present landscapes.
23486811|Magellanic wetlands in the Patagonian steppe are unique habitats from the point of view of conservation and agriculture. Little is known about their environmental characteristics and plant communities. Our aim was to describe vegetation variability to improve current classifications and reveal environmental factors correlated with vegetation variability in the meadow wetlands (vegas) of southern Chilean Patagonia and Chilean Tierra del Fuego. Five vegetation types resulted from TWINSPAN classification and subsequent interpretation, based on which four new associations were delimited: Magellanic acidic marshes  the Scirpo cernui-Calthetum sagittatae, Magellanic alkaline wet grasslands  the Samolo spathulatae-Azorelletum trifurcatae, Magellanic tall sedge marshes  the Carici maclovianae-Agrostietum stoloniferae, and Magellanic pastures  the Hordeo lechleri-Trifolietum repentis. The fifth vegetation type, saline wetlands, is the rarest and so far the least known community. Magellanic wetland vegetation forms a gradient from short saline marshes to tall graminoid-dominated communities. They reflect a major soil gradient of pH and organic matter content, along with the content of major elements (N, P, K, Fe, Al). Other important factors are ground water regime and grazing intensity.
25133947|We investigated the influence of fertilization on the abundance of species with different clonal growth characteristics using the data from a 20-year fertilization experiment from the Laelatu wooded meadow, in Estonia. The experiment comprised four different fertilization treatments and created a gradient of nitrogen availability. The vegetation composition was recorded every year by measuring the proportions of aboveground biomass for all species. For each species, four parameters of vegetative propagation were measured: speed of ramet vegetative mobility (annual increment of rhizome length), frequency of rhizome branching, placement of branches, and ramet life span. The weighted average of each parameter was calculated for each plot both at the beginning and at the end of the experiment using the relative abundances of the species in the plot as weights. The community changes resulting from the fertilization are reflected in the significant changes of the average values of all studied clonal growth parameters. Increased levels of phosphorus and potassium led to a community with an increased average vegetative mobility and rhizome branching. Both of these traits, however, declined with the increasing availability of nitrogen. The proportion of species with long-living ramets in the community decreased with the increase in the productivity irrespective of the fertilizer used. There was a strong positive correlation between the average ramet life span of the community and the number of species on the plot. We concluded that fertilization increased the ramet turnover rate in this meadow community and reduced species richness. Thus, our results contradict the prediction of a higher ramet turnover rate in species-rich compared to the species-poor grasslands.
23264878|Ligularia sibirica is a relict wetland perennial plant species of the Czech and Slovak Republic. Explaining variation in population growth rate and identifying the causes of that variation is important for effective protection of such an endangered species. Matrix models based on four years of data of 11 populations were used to identify the pattern of variation in the demographic vital rates of this species, and to examine the causes of the variation such as population size and habitat type. Further, the matrix model was used to determine the population growth rate, longevity and risk of extinction of each population and to identify the specific vital rates that most affect population growth rate. The results showed that population growth rates were significantly different between years and populations. Temporal variation was mostly due to variable survival of adult individuals, while spatial variation was mainly driven by fertility of one small currently expanding population. Further, most studied populations of L. sibirica are performing well and only those growing in nitrogen-rich habitats have a high extinction risk. The results also indicate that all populations have low adult mortality, long-lived individuals (61.3 years on average) and some populations also show features of remnant populations (i.e., the persistence of populations in severe conditions in spite of no reproduction). Our results imply that detailed demographic data are needed to understand the long-term prospects of these populations. These data may serve as an early warning system for this species long before an obvious decline occurs in the populations.
4201268| A data set of beech (Fagus sylvatica) forests in the Basque Country (Northern Spain), including biotic (floristic relevs) and environmental data (pH, organic matter, slope, altitude, rock cover), is analyzed in order to describe the relationships between understorey composition and environmental parameters. An ordination technique (DCA) is used to display the floristic gradients, and the interpretation of the floristic space in environmental terms is carried out by a spatial analysis technique (kriging). The composition of the beech forest understorey responds to a complex environmental gradient in the study area. Forests growing on acid substrata differ markedly from those growing on soils with higher pH, as the sharp transition between the pH 5 and 6 isolines reflects. When pH values exceed 6, organic matter content becomes the most important factor explaining the vegetation pattern and the rate of change is greater as organic matter content tends to change at a smaller scale than sample size and, as a consequence many transitional forms are found. 
23264772|The reasons for the greater incidence of Rumex obtusifolius in grasslands compared with R. crispus have never been investigated. In a small-plot field experiment in which seedlings of R. obtusifolius and R. crispus were transplanted into a sward dominated by Dactylis glomerata, the growth and survival of seedlings were monitored over three years under control and P, N, NP and NPK fertilizer treatments. The highest plants of R. obtusifolius and R. crispus were generally recorded in the N, NP and NPK treatments and the lowest in the control and P treatment. The maximum recorded heights of R. obtusifolius were 100 cm and of R. crispus 80 cm. The number of leaves per plant, weight of individual plants, cover and fertility were generally higher for R. obtusifolius than for R. crispus. 30% to 80% of transplanted R. obtusifolius plants flowered in the first (seeding) year and this contrasted with no flowering of transplanted R. crispus plants. After cutting, substantially better regrowth of R. obtusifolius was recorded compared to that of R. crispus and surviving R. crispus plants tended to show a gradual reduction in leaf number. The mortality of R. obtusifolius over three years ranged from 0% in the NPK treatment to 13% in the control, with an average of 8% over all treatments. The mortality of R. crispus ranged from 19% in the control to 94% in the NPK treatment with an average of 64% over all treatments. We concluded that R. obtusifolius is better adapted to growing in highly productive temperate grasslands than R. crispus because of its perennial character, larger plant size and higher fertility.
25133911|This paper reviews the differences in the distribution and regeneration of Fagus crenata between two types of Japanese beech forests, the Japan Sea (JS)-type and the Pacific Ocean (PO)-type, and discusses the causal factors and characteristics of these forests, particularly the PO-type. F. crenata in PO-type forests regenerates sporadically rather than constantly, whereas regeneration in the JS-type forests is relatively constant with gap dynamics. F. crenata has dominated in snowy areas both in the past, after the last glacial age, when there was less human disturbance, and in the present. Snow accumulation facilitates beech regeneration in snowy JS-type forests, but not in the less snowy PO-type. Snow protects beechnuts from damage caused by rodents, desiccation, and freezing. In addition, snow suppresses dwarf bamboo in the spring, thus increasing the amount of sunlight available for beech seedlings on the forest floor. Snow also supplies melt water during the growing season and limits the distribution of herbivores. Moreover, snow reduces the number of forest fires during the dry winter and early spring seasons. The low densities of F. crenata impede its regeneration, because disturbed wind pollination lowers seed fertility and predators are less effectively satiated. In snowy JS-type beech forests, F. crenata dominates both at the adult and the juvenile stages because it regenerates well, while other species are eliminated by heavy snow pressure. On the less snowy PO-side, deciduous broad-leaved forests with various species are a primary feature, although F. crenata dominates because of its large size and long lifespan.
25134169|Basic growth characteristics of two species of free-floating submerged carnivorous plants, the very rare and stenotopic Aldrovanda vesiculosa and the very common and eurytopic Utricularia australis, were investigated in a 10/11-day field growth experiment within three nylon enclosures at two artificial Aldrovanda sites in the Tebo region, S Bohemia, Czech Republic, at the peak of a growing season. Growth of Aldrovanda was best at a meso-eutrophic site (biomass doubling time, T, 8.4-10.7 days, mean growth of new leaf whorls <tex-math>$0.96\ \text{whorls days}^{-1}$</tex-math>, 1.6 developed branches per shoot) and slower at an oligo-mesotrophic site (T 17.2-21.5 days, growth of whorls <tex-math>$1.01\ \text{whorls days}^{-1}$</tex-math>, 0.1-0.5 branches per shoot). Growth of Utricularia was similar at both sites (T 19.8-33.2 days or 9.1-16.8 days, growth of whorls <tex-math>$3.1\ \text{or}\ 2.7\ \text{whorls days}^{-1}$</tex-math>, 1.5-2.1 or 0.8-1.4 developed branches per shoot at the former or latter site, respectively). Throughout the experiment, both species at the meso-eutrophic site allocated relatively more biomass to the production and growth of branches, than to that of new whorls. The results show that Aldrovanda, although usually considered as competitively weaker, can grow faster during the growing season peak than Utricularia due to frequent branching and the subsequent rapid growth and separation of daughter shoots. Very rapid growth of rootless aquatic carnivorous plants in nutrient-poor habitats allows the consideration of ecophysiological adaptations that enable the plants to gain limiting mineral nutrients. These adaptations include carnivory, efficient nutrient reutilization from senescent shoots, and very high affinity for mineral nutrient uptake from water. Comparison of growth rates of rare and stenotopic A. vesiculosa and very common and eurytopic U. australis shows that differences in their rarity do not seem to be based on differences of growth rate.
23486778|Vegetation of boreal coniferous forests has been extensively studied in many areas of northern Eurasia and North America, but similar forests in the high mountains of subtropical and tropical eastern Asia have been poorly documented so far. This paper, focusing on such forests, is the first phytosociological study at a national scale in Taiwan. The relevs from the National Vegetation Diversity Inventory and Mapping Project database were used to define vegetation types of the high-mountain coniferous forests and to characterize their distribution in Taiwan. Environmental variables such as aspect, elevation, soil rockiness and slope were related to species composition. Cluster analysis was used to classify relevs and establish groups that were interpreted as nine associations belonging to two alliances. The alliance Juniperion squamatae represents woodlands and forests scattered in the subalpine belt, in which Juniperus squamata dominates the canopy and subalpine meadow species occur in the understorey. The Abieti kawakamii-Tsugion formosanae alliance includes forests dominated by Abies kawakamii and Tsuga chinensis var. formosana with shade-tolerant herb species in the upper montane belt. In addition to regional vegetation description, an identification key for the studied forests was developed based on the classification tree technique.
25134024|The hump-shaped relationship between plant species richness and biomass is commonly observed at fine scale for herbaceous vegetation in temperate climates. This relationship predicts that herbaceous species richness is highest at an intermediate level of biomass that corresponds to moderate competition or disturbance. However, this relationship has not previously been investigated in high arid sub-alpine mountain grasslands. We tested the humped-back prediction in the arid Trans-Himalayan mountain grassland with a seasonal grazing system. The study area is located in the bottom of a U-shaped valley, in the Manang district (3500 m a.s.l.). We sampled two hundred plots (1m  1m) in two different types of pastures: common pasture and old field, which both have similar grazing practices. There was a significant unimodal relationship between species richness and biomass only in the common pasture, and when the two sites were analyzed together. The species turnover is estimated by DCA in standard deviation unit. The turnover was lower in the old field than in the common pasture. The unimodal relationship between plant species richness and biomass did not disappear after accounting for unknown environmental gradients expressed as DCA (detrended correspondence analysis) axes and spatial variables. The species richness is highest at 120  40 g/m. The results indicate that a hump-shaped relationship is also found in arid Trans-Himalayan grasslands.
23064581|Walls are often considered secondary habitats for vegetation of natural rock surfaces. Compared with rocks, walls differ in many features, for example the presence of a binding material (mainly calcareous mortar), location in settlements and exposure to human impact. A data set of 1,205 phytosociological relevs recorded on horizontal wall tops, wall verticals and rock verticals in the Czech Republic was used to compare their vegetation with regard to i) species composition (frequent species, species diversity, endangered and alien species) and ii) the ecological requirements of the respective species. Gamma diversity of vascular plant species was comparable in all habitat types (242 species on wall tops, 212 species on wall verticals and 197 species on rock verticals). Wall verticals had higher beta diversity, but lower alpha diversity than rocks. Remarkable differences were found comparing the diversity of alien species. Whereas alpha and gamma diversities of aliens were higher on both wall habitats, beta diversity of aliens was the highest on rocks. The high floristic heterogeneity of walls is mainly attributable to the large pool of species from the surrounding urbanized landscape (e.g., cultivated ornamental species and synanthropic weeds) that are favoured by high nutrient inputs. In contrast, species characteristic of rocks are mainly substrate specialists. Walls and rocks share the frequent occurrence of ferns, grasses and herbs typical of forest understorey and clearings. Compared with rocks, walls are generally colonized by species requiring higher nutrient content, soil reaction, temperature and moisture. Secondary wall habitats might be suitable for some rare and endangered species, but contrary to rocks their occurrences are only accidental and temporary. The representation of aliens was considerably higher on walls (approximately 35%) than on rocks (9%).
25133779|Intra-specific competition with a primary focus on root competition between plants living in an area with low resource levels, was studied using the natural monotypic population of a desert annual plant Eremobium aegyptiacum (Cruciferae). We tested the effect of neighboring distance on shoot and root biomass, and such root parameters as root length, diameter of root neck, number of first order lateral roots and number of lateral roots per unit of main root length. Our results indicate a strong negative relationship between neighboring plant density and such plant parameters as shoot and root biomass, and root neck diameter. The number of first order lateral roots and the number of lateral roots per unit of main root length were negatively related to the distance between neighboring plants. Contrary to predictions, there was no influence of competition on node distribution: neither root overlap nor root avoidance was observed in pairs of adjacent plants.
23064836|Reseda collina is included in Reseda section Phyteuma, a monophyletic and morphologically well-defined group that is also characterized by taxonomic problems regarding species circumscription. The status of this species has been controversial, usually being subordinated to the widespread R. phyteuma. A study of R. collina and allied taxa based on morphological and molecular (nuclear ITS, plastid trnL-F) data supports the taxonomic identity of R. collina and its separation from R. phyteuma. An epitype is designated to support the holotype and prevent future nomenclature problems. In addition, our molecular and morphological analyses suggest that some problematic southeastern Iberian populations, previously identified as R. phyteuma, belong to R. collina, which implies a new European record for this species that was previously considered as a northwestern African endemic. Following this finding, biogeographic relationships between the southern Iberian Peninsula and northwestern Africa are also discussed.
23064574|Here we describe Allium telmatum Bogdanovi, Brullo, Giusso & Salmeri, a new species of Allium sect. Codonoprasum from North Dalmatia (Croatia). Its chromosome number (2n=32), karyotype, leaf anatomy, ecology and taxonomical relationships are examined. Several features, such as phenology (flowering in autumn), occurrence in coastal salt marshes, tetraploid chromosome number, and morphology, indicate that it is most closely related to the Tyrrhenian species Allium savii. On the basis of our herbarium survey, we present here a distribution map of the autumn-flowering species of Allium sect. Codonoprasum in the Mediterranean area.
25133912|Survey of eighteen islands in the Stockholm archipelago from 1884-1908 was re-examined during 1996-1998 to investigate how island size, degree of isolation and human impact affect the species number, extinction and immigration rates of terrestrial vascular plants. Cattle grazing and haymaking was widely and commonly in practice on the islands, but became less intensive since the 1920s and ceased during the 1960s. In the first survey species number was positively correlated with area and negatively correlated with distance to mainland. This pattern was similar in the later survey. However, the number of surrounding islands was positively correlated with island specific species number. During the period from the first to the second survey twenty species disappeared and ninety-three appeared as new. The increased abundance of trees, bushes and shade tolerant herbs suggest that this increase in species number is the effect of an ongoing succession in the landscape. The absolute extinction rate was negatively correlated with island size and distance to mainland, while the immigration rate was positively correlated to island size. The extinction rate was negatively correlated with the distance to mainland probably due to an earlier more intense cultural exploitation closer to the mainland. Our measure of human impact, the presence of houses on islands, was not related to terrestrial plant species number or extinction rate. However, there was a trend for the immigration rate to be higher on islands with houses in 1942 than those without, indicating the importance of human activities for dispersal and/or recruitment.
25133993|This study demonstrates how conventional ecological knowledge on species together with models resulting from functional traits can be tested and refined by tapping large data sources that have been made available through recent electronic compilations. The study is based on the comparison of three rare, closely related flood-meadow violet species, which have been supposed to have similar ecological behaviour and niche occupation. In contrast, the analysis of 335 Central European relevs using different methods of numerical ordination, classification and calibration revealed distinct differences in habitat preferences between the three species. Detrended correspondence analysis ordination, and multiple-response permutation procedures and TWINSPAN classification displayed the separation of Viola persicifolia from V. elatior and V. pumila along a moisture and base-richness gradient, while the latter two differed mostly in terms of mowing compatibility. Although the three violets are considered to be weak competitors they may be found under nutrient-poor as well as nutrient-rich site conditions. The distribution of C-S-R strategy types in relevs supported the hypothesis that at more fertile sites the violets crucially depend on disturbance by management or flooding events that create gaps and weaken strong competitors, while at less productive sites they may persist for a long time even under fallow conditions. The S/R strategy is shared by all three violets. Problems and perspectives arising with the use of phytosociological databanks as a source of ecological information are discussed.
25134152|This paper presents the results of a karyological analysis of 14 species of Alchemilla L. collected from SW Europe (Spain and French Pyrenees). About 75% of the analyzed species have chromosome numbers 2n = 95-136. A few species have lower chromosome numbers. The chromosome numbers of 13 species are presented for the first time.
25133819|A biome classification for China was established based on plant functional types (PFTs) using the BIOME3 model to include 16 biomes. In the eastern part of China, the PFTs of trees determine mostly the physiognomy of landscape. Biomes range from boreal deciduous coniferous forest/woodland, boreal mixed forest/woodland, temperate mixed forest, temperate broad-leaved deciduous forest, warm-temperate broad-leaved evergreen/mixed forest, warm-temperate/cool-temperate evergreen coniferous forest, xeric woodland/scrub, to tropical seasonal and rain forest, and tropical deciduous forest from north to south. In the northern and western part of China, grass is the dominant PFT. From northeast to west and southwest the biomes range from moist savannas, tall grassland, short grassland, dry savannas, arid shrubland/steppe, desert, to alpine tundra/ice/polar desert. Comparisons between the classification introduced here and the four classifications which were established over the past two decades, i.e. the vegetation classification, the vegetation division, the physical ecoregion, and the initial biome classification have showed that the different aims of biome classifications have resulted in different biome schemes each with its own unique characteristics and disadvantages for global change study. The new biome classification relies not only on climatic variables, but also on soil factor, vegetation functional variables, ecophysiological parameters and competition among the PFTs. It is a comprehensive classification that using multivariables better expresses the vegetation distribution and can be compared with world biome classifications. It can be easily used in the response study of Chinese biomes to global change, regionally and globally.
25133873|Typhoon no. 19 of 1991 (T9119) caused multiple treefalls and created large openings in an old-growth beech (Fagus crenata) forest at Mt. Daisen, in the Daisen Forest Reserve, southwestern Japan. The area of the largest opening was about 1.7 ha (300 m by 70 m). To predict the dynamics of the beech stand after the disturbance of T9119, we investigated the damage to the stand and the density and growth rate of trees with DBH = 5-10 cm in a 1-ha plot covering a large part of the largest opening and the adjacent closed canopy. The beech did not regenerate immediately. The regeneration and growth rate of trees with DBH = 5-10 cm were related to the frequency of the typhoon attack for at least the past century. In beech forests, small gap formation is the prevailing mode of disturbance. Our results indicate that typhoons affect the structure and dynamics of this beech stand. We suggest that both small gap formation and large-scale disturbance are important for the maintenance of beech forest in some areas.
25133780|The gravimetric soil water content of four different successional stages of inland dune vegetation revealed pronounced seasonal changes and particularly a major drought period in the late summer. In order to analyze the effect of these seasonal water changes on the competitive interactions of two dominant species (Carex arenaria and Deschampsia flexuosa) in one of these stages root development was compared under experimentally manipulated water conditions in a minirhizotron experiment. Under well-watered conditions, the root growth of C. arenaria and D. flexuosa was not influenced by competition, but was significantly reduced for C. arenaria at low water availability. Accordingly, the relative yield based on total biomass was significantly lower under water shortage than under well-watered conditions for C. arenaria, indicating higher interspecific competition compared to intraspecific competitive interactions. These results indicate (i) that soil water status is an important factor for belowground competitive interactions and (ii) that seasonal changes in soil water content may have a pronounced effect on the outcome of competition and, in consequence, on the structure of the respective plant communities.
25133886|Year-to-year vegetation changes have been observed many times in temperate grasslands. Ordinarily, variation in annual weather patterns is considered responsible for these changes. However, the exact mechanisms of vegetation dynamics have seldom been studied. In order to analyse the direct response of plants to distinct weather situations, the shoot growth rates of three subdominant grassland species were determined during three growing seasons and tested for significant relationships to meteorological variables measured simultaneously in the study site. Half of the shoots grew in the natural community with competition from neighbouring plants. For the other half, above-ground interference was avoided by regularly clipping the surrounding vegetation. The results lead to the distinction of three different impact patterns of current weather conditions on the growth of subdominant grassland species: (i) As a consequence of extraordinary weather conditions, e.g. lasting periods of drought in the summer, plants die completely or partially or pass into secondary dormancy. Such weather situations may cause quantitative or even qualitative changes in species composition by altering the density and frequency of the species involved. (ii) Major divergences from average weather conditions, such as unusually warm or cold periods in the spring, affect the growth of subdominant species and may therefore lead to quantitative annual variation of the species involved in terms of cover or biomass. (iii) Average weather conditions with slight deviations from the long-term means of the weather variables do not produce detectable direct growth responses and therefore average weather conditions are not key factors for year-to-year variations in the quantitative or qualitative performance of subdominant species.
25133991|In scientific literature there is a wealth of information about the ecological and life-history traits of plant species. This information would be very valuable for a functional analysis of the response of species and communities to environmental changes and subsequent vulnerability/viability analysis or predictive modelling. However, the information is scattered in a multiple of different sources. Researchers often are discouraged from searching all available information. We are compiling a database of plant traits of the flora of Germany. Our aim is to create a comprehensive, well documented database to be made freely accessible within FLORAWEB, an Internet portal of the German Federal Agency for Nature Conservation (BfN). An interactive user-interface will enable the data to be readily used for extracting biological risk factors and for decision-making in nature conservation. A further aim of the project is to develop an application to enable simple predictions of plant population responses to habitat conservation or restoration management.
23264876|The study tested the assumption that the effect of land-use changes on hydrological dynamics and edaphic features of an aquatic-terrestrial ecotone have led to vegetational patchiness and decrease primary productivity (NPP). On the basis of the depletion of a groundwater-fed stream, three study sites corresponding to interrupted, intermittent and permanent streams were selected throughout the ecotone in the Sunsunes catchment (Orinoco basin, Venezuela). To describe the human impact on land cover, patchiness, biodiversity, hydrological and edaphic features, NPP and nutrient availability, we use structural and functional approaches. Hydrological (i.e., duration of inundation and maximum inundation height), soil chemical (e.g., Ca concentration, available phosphorous, soil organic matter) and physical (i.e., water-filled pore spaces) features were the best predictors of anthropogenic disturbance. In the ecotone, the tree species invasion from well-drained savannas increased woody cover as described by a stretched exponential model. Groundwater drawdown in the interrupted and intermittent streams increased with 74 and 34 colonizer species from well-drained savannas. The NPP of the ecotonal vegetation along the interrupted stream (909 g C/m 2 /yr) was a higher sink as compared to the intermittent and permanent streams (580 g C/m 2 /yr). Anthropogenic stress along with natural disturbance resulted in a decline in the system's functioning. In contrast to hydrology, the effect of the nutrient addition (i.e., liming and phosphorous) on the carbon accumulation by species was not significant. Therefore, the functional response of the system was more sensitive to hydrology regime. The results indicate impact on the ecotones occurred in short term, and that vulnerability to climate is crucial of groundwater-dependent vegetation.
25133855|A new species of the genus Hypericum, Hypericum carpaticum Mrtonfi, is described from Slovakia. It is pentaploid (2n=40) with morphological and chemical features that are most similar to the tetraploid species H. dubium Leers from western Europe. The species is most likely of hybridogenous origin, arising as a result of hybridization between H. maculatum Crantz and H. perforatum L. It seems that consequent speciation processes and stabilization by inherited apomixis (from H. perforatum) allowed it to reproduce successfully and to enlarge its distribution area. According to recent knowledge of its distribution, it is necessary to consider it endemic to the Volovsk vrchy Mts. in the Carpathians. With regard to its scarcity it merits EN status according to the IUCN criteria.
25133878|The primary successional sere of a warm-temperate forest was inferred from an age sequence of four basaltic volcanic substrates (16-, 37- and 125-yr-old lava flows, and volcanic ejecta older than 800 years) at several altitudes (ranging from 30 to 550 m) on Miyake-jima Island. The DCA analysis of species composition indicated that the vegetation is patterned by substrate age and altitude. The vegetation successionally changed from Alnus sieboldiana shrub, to Machilus thunbergii and Prunus speciosa forest, to Castanopsis sieboldii forest at all altitudes. The rate of succession seems to be slower at higher altitudes. The above-ground biomass was 20 kg/m (160 m a.s.l.) and 12 kg/m (300 m a.s.l.) on the 125-yr-old lava flow, and 54 kg/m (100 m a.s.l.) and 16 kg/m (350 m a.s.l.) on the old ejecta. However, the large difference of above-ground biomass between low versus high altitudes on the old ejecta might not only reflect climatic differences but also past human disturbances at the higher altitude. In spite of the colder climate of Miyake-jima the rate of above-ground biomass accumulation here was considerably faster than that of a Hawaiian montane tropical evergreen forest on the same basaltic lava substrate. We suggest that the faster above-ground biomass development is due to the facilitation effects of N-fixation by Alnus. The inorganic N soil concentration was extremely high on the 37- and 125-yr-old lava flows where Alnus was dominant. The foliar N concentration in Alnus was 2% irrespective of substrate age. The deposition of N from Alnus via litterfall would decrease the soil C/N ratio, which in turn facilitates net soil N mineralization and consequently provides an ample supply of inorganic N to plants. N limitation on vegetation development, which is prevalent during the early stage of succession on volcanic lava flows or similar substrates elsewhere, is thus alleviated.
23064931|This paper presents the methodology and results of a vegetation reconstruction method based on botanical sampling, the knowledge of succession pattern, digital photograph-interpretation and automatic delineation via image segmentation. The aim is to provide a methodology for interpretation of archived black-and-white aerial photographs, which can be applied at other study sites. Our study area was the Nyres-t mire in the Bereg Plain (NE Hungary). Initially, botanical sampling was carried out, and this was followed by separation and identification of current vegetation types. In our study we selected automatic delineation using multi-resolution image segmentation as the method for vegetation mapping. Based on the present-day vegetation map produced and the known successional pathway of the mire, archive aerial photographs were analyzed separately in reverse chronological order to derive plant associations present at the different photograph acquisition dates. With this method we were able to make a chronological sequence of digital vegetation maps over a period of almost fifty years (19562002). The analysis of vegetation maps showed that forest cover increased steadily until 1988. After an artificial water supply was introduced (in 1986), the spread of tree-dominated associations became slower, and the relative cover of the different vegetation types reached a stable state.
4201402| Co-occurrence of sexual diploid and apomictic triploid Taraxacum section Ruderalia has been reported frequently. Many suggestions have been put forward with respect to the existence of an ecological differentiation between the cytotypes. In a study of 116 Ruderalia populations in the area around Neuchtel (Switzerland) such a habitat differentiation has been proven. Large differences in the diploid/triploid ratio have been found between different field types. Adjacent fields of different types sometimes had significantly different cytotype ratios. In a canonical correspondence analysis significant vegetation differences were found between fields with mainly diploid Ruderalia and fields with mainly triploid Ruderalia. Two environmental indicators were significantly positively correlated with ploidy levels, altitude with diploids, and the percentage of therophytes in a vegetation with triploids. The percentage of therophytes is thought to be an indicator of the amount of disturbance due to human activities. At lower altitudes, the diploid/triploid ratio is largely determined by the amount of disturbance. Highly-disturbed fields contain mainly triploids whereas relatively stable fields contain mainly diploids. At higher altitudes there are mainly diploids. The presence of triploid Taraxacum sect. Ruderalia in the region around Neuchtel appears to be the result of the high amount of human activities of the last few hundred years. Whether the triploid presence is due to immigration or to local formation from diploids is yet unknown. 
25134026|A revision of the genus Festuca (Poaceae) in Ecuador resulted in the description of nine new taxa presented here. All are endemic to the Ecuadorian pramos. The majority of taxa (F. carchiense, F. holubii, F. soukupii, F. oroana, F. imbaburensis, F. chimborazensis subsp. micacochensis, F. parciflora subsp. loxana, F. vaginalis subsp. cayambae) belong to the section Festuca, the largest and cosmopolitan section of subgenus Festuca. Festuca laegaardii is a new taxon of the small South American section Cataphylophorae (subgen. Festuca). Comments on an interesting case of the vegetative proliferation in F. subulifolia are given.
25134136|Many plants live in habitats that are becoming increasingly rare and fragmented due to human disturbance. Studies of genetic diversity are necessary for understanding and evaluating the impact of habitat fragmentation, and land-use change on the dynamics of rare species to help in setting priorities for their management. We used AFLP markers to study variation in genetic structure within and among three border populations of the orchid Himantoglossum hircinum. Study sites were located in central Germany, which represents the north-eastern border of distribution, and they were separated from each other by a maximum distance of 10 km. Landscape between the populations was characterized by man-made habitat features including agricultural fields, major roads and settlements. We compared paris of populations to evaluate genetic variation, genetic differentiation, and the current level of gene flow between them. Genetic diversity was high within the populations and higher within than between the populations. Population genetic differentiation was relatively high compared to other orchid species $(G_{{\rm st}}=0.20)$. Gene flow between pairs of the populations varied and appeared to be influenced by landscape characteristics separating the localities. Recommendations for conservation of H. hircinum are provided. Management activities should concentrate on maintenance or enlargement of habitat size to prevent loss of genetic diversity due to genetic drift. Sites are genetically relatively isolated, but using stepping stones to improve gene exchange would be problematic because of the intense land-use in the area.
25133842| Arki and Lipsi are two islet groups situated in the NNW part of the prefecture of Dodecannisos (E Aegean area, Greece), which consist of 37 islets in total, of which three (Lipsos, Arki and Marathi) are permanently inhabited. From the area studied 557 taxa of Tracheophytes have been registered and the chorological and life-form analyses of the flora have shown the predominance of the Mediterranean elements and the therophytes, respectively, confirming the Mediterranean character of the flora. However, significant fluctuations have been observed regarding the representation of both, chorological and life-form types, from islet to islet. A comparison of the individual flora of the 37 islets studied, revealed very low floristic similarity even between neighbouring islets (-diversity). Not one of the taxa registered was present on all 37 islets; yet, 199 taxa were present on only one islet. Eight of the taxa registered in the studied area fall under a protection status according to international lists. The floristic data were statistically evaluated with respect to species-area relationship and other geographical factors such as altitude, minimum distance from a larger inhabited island and sea depth. 
24571981|Changes in vegetation composition due to the increasing temperatures in the past few decades have already been reported from several parts of Europe. It has been shown that single species move either northwards or to higher elevations. We expected that the species composition of forest stands should also have changed, i.e., an increase of thermophilous species. Another site factor changing for decades is nitrogen availability; we therefore also expected an increase of nitrophilous species, which was one main result in former long-term studies. We studied the species composition of beech (Fagus sylvatica) forests in southern Germany (Bavaria), comparing old (from 1949 to 1985) and young (2010) phytosociological relevs. Ellenberg indicator values representing plant species specific environmental factors combined with climatic data were used in a partial canonical correspondence analysis (pCCA) for vegetation comparisons. Changes in plant species composition were analyzed considering species frequency, distribution of Ellenberg indicator values, shares of i) non-native plants and ii) tree, shrub and herbaceous species. Contrary to our expectations, global warming in Bavaria during the past decades resulted only in an explained dispersion of 5 % in the species composition. On the species level, an overall increase of thermophilous walnut tree saplings (Juglans regia) was conspicuous in some study areas. Nitrophilous species, however, generally increased in frequency throughout the study areas. Throughout Bavaria the most significant change was a striking increase of juvenile tree species and a decrease of herbaceous species. Up to now the increased nitrogen input into forests had a stronger provable influence on species composition shift than the global warming of the last decades. Additionally general changes in forest management also had effects on forest species. Therefore community reorganization mirroring temperature factors in beech forests in central Europe seems to be only at its very beginning.
41245530|In this paper we present the main characteristics of a new, grid-based, landscape-ecology-oriented, satellite-image supported, field vegetation mapping method, called MTA (MTA stands for Magyarorszgi lhelyek Trkpi Adatbzisa: GIS Database of the Hungarian Habitats). The goals of the MTA method based vegetation mapping program (MTA mapping) include the following: (1) to map the actual (semi-)natural vegetation of Hungary; (2) to evaluate Hungarian (semi-)natural vegetation heritage for conservation purposes; (3) to evaluate the present state of Hungarian landscapes from a vegetation point of view; (4) to collect vegetation and landscape ecological data for the prognosis of future changes of vegetation and the landscape. Spatial resolution, mapped attributes and mapping methods were developed to meet these goals. The MTA method uses a hexagon grid with cells of 35 hectares. In the hexagons, habitat types are listed, then the area, naturalness-based habitat quality, spatial pattern in the hexagon, effect of the neighbourhood, connectedness, and threats are recorded for each habitat type. Other attributes are recorded in the hexagons: potential natural vegetation, area occupied by invasive plant species, area of old fields, land use of grasslands, and landscape health status (naturalness and regeneration potential of the landscape in general). One hundred hexagons form a quadrat-mainly for practical, organizational reasons, but also for collecting certain vegetation data at this spatial scale. For standardization of mapping, three different pre-printed data sheets and two different kinds of guides have been composed (Mapping Guide and Habitat Guide) and field trainings were organized. For standardization of estimation of naturalness-based habitat quality and regeneration potential field examples were prepared for each habitat type and each category of these attributes.
25134051|Chromosome numbers and karyotypes of Sonchus oleraceus (n=16, 2n=32), S. asper (n=9, 2n=18 for subsp. asper and subsp. glaucescens, and S. microcephalus (n=15, 2n=30) are studied; for the first time their idiograms are given. Karyotypes mainly comprise small chromosomes with a degree of asymmetry 2B in S. oleraceus and S. microcephalus and 2A or 2A-2B in S. asper. No karyological differences can be pointed out between S. asper subspecies. Data presented support the amphiploid character of S. oleraceus, and the origin of S. microcephalus through a dysploid process involving the former taxon. In Iberian representatives of the genus, diagrams of karyotype asymmetry indices show a cluster grouping for species, with the detached exceptions of S. maritimus and S. crassifolius, which spontaneously hybridize in central Spain. A review of available karyological data shows that in the evolution of the genus Sonchus s.l. and relatives, the basic chromosome number x=9 has generally been maintained. Dysploidy is restricted to the series S. bourgeaui (n=8) - S. tenerrimus (n=7) and S. oleraceus (n=16) - S. microcephalus (n=15), evolutionarily related and included in the present subgenus Sonchus. Polyploidy has been detected in a total of nine taxa of Sonchus and in the genera Embergeria, Kirkianella, and Dendroseris, being more common in peripheral regions of the distribution area of the group. Five diversification centers are proposed for the whole group, of which the Western Mediterranean area, including the Iberian Peninsula, is related to diversification of the present subgenus Sonchus.
23064489|The spatial pattern of the altitudinal limit of beech woods in the Northern Apennines and its correlation with the Fagus sylvatica thermal requirements were studied. The study area was the whole northern side of the Northern Apennines (latitude 44 N), including a timberline. The pattern was described on a scale of 1:25,000, using digitized phytosociological vegetation maps. The timberline elevation ranges from 1,200 to 1,825 m a.s.l., with the highest range at 1,525 to 1,725 m and a peak (13%) at 1,6001,625 m. As suggested by the known beech thermal requirements, the following thermal parameters were considered: mean annual temperature, mean of the coldest month (January), mean of the warmest month (July); days with maximum temperatures >10C and summer mean (June to September). The values were calculated using data for 19512002 from six weather stations. The present upper timberline (1,825 m) corresponds to the following: i) mean annual temperature of 4.5C; ii) coldest month mean temperature of 2.3C; iii) summer mean of 11.5C; iv) warmest month mean temperature of 13C; v) 139 days with maximum temperatures of 10C or higher. The mean temperature of the warmest month corresponds to the July mean temperature in maritime mountains, such as the Appalachians and the New Zealand Alps (13C). The geographical location of the Northern Apennines close to the Mediterranean Sea seems to indicate that such a conclusion is reliable. With reference to the elevation variability of the upper timberline, the multiple regression shows that the annual mean is the best explaining thermal parameter (P<0.05). Our thermal data do not take into account the atmospheric phenomena that can affect the temperature lapse rate with altitude, such as the cloudiness of the chain, and site factors, such as wind-exposed topography and snow cover duration, which play a crucial role in the Northern Apennine local climate.
23486790|Belonging to the genus Cenchrus with 1622 species, Cenchrus ciliaris L. (syn. Pennisetum ciliare (L.) Link, buffelgrass) is a perennial, common in warmer regions of both hemispheres, growing as a C4 grass in a wide range of habitats. In the present study we determined chromosome number and nuclear DNA content (2C DNA) for 28 natural populations collected from northern to southern Tunisia. Three ploidy levels were found: one tetraploid population (2n=4x=36), three pentaploid (2n=5x=45), and 24 hexaploid populations (2n=6x=54). The hexaploid chromosome number has already been reported for Tunisian populations of C. ciliaris but tetraploid and pentaploid (2n=45) are new for this area. The tetraploid population was found in the semi-arid north; pentaploids were mostly on the northern side of the arid region, while the hexaploids were located mainly in the arid southern Tunisian and Saharan region. 2C DNA values, assessed using flow cytometry, correlated with chromosome counts. Nuclear DNA content ranged from 2C=3.03 to 4.61 pg, revealing three ploidy levels corresponding to 4x, 5x, 6x, and mean 2C DNA amounts were of 3.03, 3.7 and 4.48 pg, respectively. Each cytotype produced viable pollen. Flow cytometric seed screening neither proved nor disproved apomixis. The most frequent hexaploid populations seem best adapted to arid conditions in southern Tunisia. The monoploid value, 1Cx, was constant. The existence of pentaploid cytotype suggests hybridization ability between tetraploids and hexaploids. It appears that polyploidization is the major evolutionary mechanism in the speciation of C. ciliaris.
25133887| In the western part of the Carpathian flysch zone, aquifers host several springwater chemistry types. Four vegetation types, distinguished along the poor-rich gradient (tufa-forming and peat forming brown moss fens, moderately rich and poor Sphagnum fens), have been compared with respect to the main habitat factors. Water calcium and magnesium concentrations, pH and conductivity as well as the soil organic carbon content were the properties measured that showed the strongest correlation with the main vegetation gradient (the poor-rich gradient). Further, significant differences in iron, sodium, potassium, sulphate and phosphate concentrations were also found between pairs of related vegetation types. The range of calcium concentrations is wide (2-300 mg/l). The calcium concentration in tufa-forming springs is higher than values usually reported from northern and western Europe. Tufa formation is influenced not only by high calcium concentrations, but also by the total chemical composition of springwater and both climatic and topographic conditions. There is a great excess of cations over Cl and SO, balanced by HCO and CO in springs with the most intense tufa precipitation. Unusually high calcium concentrations combined with high iron concentrations were found in peat-forming brown moss fens. Rich Sphagnum-fens with calcitolerant Sphagnum species are distinctively low in phosphates. The Western Carpathian poor fens dominated by Sphagnum flexuosum have water and soil calcium concentrations comparable to those reported from rich fens of some other areas. The springwater of these fens are rich in iron, phosphates and sulphates. The poorest spring fens with Sphagnum fallax, S. magellanicum, S. papillosum and S. auriculatum are not only poor in calcium, but also in iron, sodium and potassium. 
4201311|Problems and difficulties in the taxonomy of Euphrasia (Scrophulariaceae) are discussed. They are partly due to autogamous breeding systems, but also due to patterns of ecological convergences. The use of taxonomic approaches to agamospermous complexes within autogamous groups in the genus Euphrasia is discussed and rejected because of producing unnecessary taxa for ephemeral variants. Also for the taxonomic treatment of agamospermous complexes in general the existence of a broad set of populations with stable morphological, ecological and/or geographical integrities should be the inevitable basis for describing of new taxa.
25133876|Three canopy tree species (Fraxinus platypoda, Pterocarya rhoifolia, and Cercidiphyllum japonicum) coexist in riparian forests in the Chichibu Mountains of central Japan. We compared the forest structure and the reproductive characteristics of these species. F. platypoda was the dominant canopy species. It produced many saplings and grew in abandoned channels and floodplains, and was able to invade both large and small disturbance sites. P. rhoifolia was a subdominant species that occurred on the deposits of large-scale landslides and grew in patches containing even-aged trees. C. japonicum was the other subdominant species that produced few saplings and invaded large disturbance sites together with P. rhoifolia. Establishment sites of C. japonicum were restricted to fine mineral soils and fallen logs. We found tradeoffs in reproductive characteristics (seed size, seed number, irregular seed production, and sprouting) among the three canopy species. F. platypoda and P. rhoifolia had large seeds and produced fruits irregularly. C. japonicum produced many small seeds every year and sprouted prolifically around the main stem. The causes of the coexistence mechanism of the three riparian canopy tree species may be both niche- and chance-determined to varying degrees. In riparian areas, the three canopy species were well-adapted to disturbances throughout their life-history.
25134109|We performed a quantitative literature review on the effect of the root hemiparasite Rhinanthus on vegetation standing crop. (1) Across all available experimental studies in mixed vegetation and in pots, above-ground biomass of co-occurring species is generally reduced, with on average 40% and 60% of the value in the controls respectively. Total above-ground biomass, as the sum of parasite biomass and biomass of co-occurring species, decreases in most cases. For field experiments this reduction amounts, on average, to 26% of the control value. This implies that there is no compensation by the parasites' biomass for the loss of biomass of co-occurring species due to parasite infection. This can be attributed to the low resource-use efficiency of hemiparasites. Meta-analysis confirmed these trends. (2) In pot experiments, the negative effect of the parasite on the above-ground biomass of the host increases with the number of Rhinanthus plants. In field experiments, we found no relationship between biomass reduction and Rhinanthus density. (3) Total above-ground biomass reduction in field experiments increases with standing crop of the vegetation. However, reduction in above-ground biomass of co-occurring species seems to decrease with standing crop. Functional and species diversity buffer the community against negative effects of Rhinanthus. (4) In field experiments, functional groups are affected differently by Rhinanthus spp. Grasses and legumes are mostly strongly reduced by the hemiparasites. Non-leguminous dicots mostly benefit from the presence of Rhinanthus. (5) In one out of four weeding experiments, Rhinanthus spp. has a significant (positive) effect on species number. However, the response of plant diversity to invasion of parasitic plants requires further research.
23486785|Biodiversity pattern and life-form spectra were studied along a 3,000 m altitudinal gradient from a semi-desert area to the alpine peak of Tochal Mountain. The gradient is located on the southern slopes of Central Alborz with a Mediterranean continental climate. DCA ordination was applied to 1,069 relevs and 7 quantitative variables to discover the relation of diversity and altitude. A biodiversity pattern was obtained by relating values for species richness and Shannon-Wiener's index to 100-m altitudinal sections. Altitude was determined as the major ecological gradient. Both diversity indices are negatively correlated with altitude and show a decreasing trend beyond a peak in species richness at 1,8001,900 m a.s.l. towards a very low diversity in the high alpine zone. The biodiversity peak does not match with the potential tree line in the area (2,500 3,000 m a.s.l.). The high diversity in foothills can be related to habitat heterogeneity, longer suitable climatic conditions, and diverse disturbance factors, while unfavorable conditions at high-altitude alpine and low-altitude desert areas reduce the number of species at both extremes. Life-form patterns clearly change along altitudinal gradient. Annuals with decreasing trend, and hemicryptophytes and chamaephytes with increasing trend along the altitudinal gradient are notable patterns of life form in the area. Temperature, soil moisture and nutrients are the main factors that explain the ecological influence of altitude on species diversity and life-form patterns in the semi-arid steppe vegetation of the area.
25133874|All over the world forests and woodlands are damaged or reset to initial stages by fire, insect outbreaks or storms. In Central Europe storm events are the most important natural disturbances affecting stand structures of both natural and managed forests and yet only a few studies exist on long-term forest development following the destruction of the tree layer by a storm. This paper presents a permanent plot study established in 1988 in the Bavarian Forest National Park (SE Germany) on areas, where the tree layer had been destructed by a storm on August 1, 1983. The records concerning (1) floristic composition (spermatophytes, pteridophytes, bryophytes, lichens) and cover degree, (2) location and shape of each tree higher than 1 meter (height, diameter at breast height) including position of fallen trees and (3) number of seedlings and saplings were taken in 1988, 1993 and 1998. Two windfall areas, situated next to each other in the same broad and flat valley bottom on wet soils under local cold climate conditions (potential as well as recent vegetation: Calamagrostio villosae-Piceetum bazzanietosum) were analyzed, one of them with completely free development after the storm event ("untouched"), the other with dead wood cleared off after the event, but thereafter with free development ("cleared"). The vegetation analysis separated two major trends in vegetation dynamics: (1) On the cleared plots with intensive soil-surface disturbance (removal of the damaged wood) the species composition changed towards pioneer herb vegetation (Rubus sp.), and pioneer forest species (here: birch, Betula pendula and/or B. pubescens) established. Subsequently, vegetation dynamics leading towards clusters of forest ground-layer species composition took place. (2) In untouched stands, where soil-surface disturbances were restricted to pit-and-mound-system created by uprooted trees, the patchiness of forest vegetation increased and a regeneration of mainly terminal tree species (here: Norway spruce, Picea abies) started. Stand development for the next 100 years was simulated using the model FORSKA-M. The model is individual-based and includes competition for light, soil water, and nutrients. The simulations suggest that floristic structures of cleared and untouched plots, respectively, will remain different for several decades, but within one century, the floristic structure becomes rather similar. Major processes in forest ecosystems which can be used to improve forest management and nature conservation practices have been identified based on the results of the case study.
4201383| A new species of Fumana (Dunal) Spach subgenus Fumana, F. fontqueri, is described from the region of Rif, Morocco. Notes on its morphology, ecology, distribution and taxonomic relationships are presented. It differs from F. procumbens (Dunal) Gren. et Godr. and F. baetica Gemes, by the indument of the stem, the disposition of pedicels, and the size of the flowers. 
25133990|The regional persistence of species subject to local population colonization and extinction necessarily depends on how landscape features and disturbance affect metapopulation dynamics. Here, we characterize the metapopulation structure and short-term dynamics of Polygonella basiramia. This rare, short-lived perennial herb is endemic to Florida scrublands and lacks a seed bank. Fires create the open sand gaps within a shrub matrix that support this species but also kill established plants. Thus, persistence depends on frequent colonization of unoccupied gaps. We are monitoring population dynamics within and among 1204 gaps distributed among 19 shrub patches. Considerable subpopulation turnover is evident at the gap level with rates of gap extinction exceeding rates of colonization in the first year. Whether declines in overall abundance continue is likely to depend on patterns of disturbance and regional stochasticity in this dynamic landscape. Polygonella is more likely to occupy larger and less isolated gaps, demonstrating that landscape features and disturbance strongly affect metapopulation dynamics. Because Polygonella basiramia displays characteristics, occupancy patterns, and turnover dynamics consistent with metapopulation theory, it represents a model system for studying plant metapopulations.
23065009|It is expected that plant species with multiple regenerative strategies have a wider ecological amplitude and geographical distribution. However there is still an anxious question why species with multiple regenerative strategies are not more frequent. In the presented work we asked whether short-lived plants with a potential bud bank i) have a wider geographical distribution, ii) occur more frequently in human-made habitats and iii) more frequently possess invasive status in comparison with the shortlived species without this additional regenerative strategy. Results show that short-lived plants with a potential bud bank are i) more widely geographically distributed, ii) under-represented in natural habitats and weakly over-represented in habitats disturbed by human activities and iii) contrary to expectation, less numerous among neophytes than species without a potential bud bank. This suggests that short-lived root-sprouters are more habitat-specialized when compared with such plants without adventitious bud-bank formation, but are more widely geographically distributed. A higher frequency of multiple regeneration strategies seems to be restricted by costs of having this ability in habitats or situations without a disturbance regime.
25134082|Nuclear DNA content was estimated using flow cytometry in 13 sections represented by 18 species of the genus Taraxacum using propidium iodide as the DNA stain. Investigated plants represented diploid, triploid and tetraploid species from sections considered both primitive and advanced, i.e., T. sect. Dioszegia, Piesis, Glacialia, Mongolica, Scariosa, Obovata, T. pyrenaicum group, T. sect. Coronata, Palustria, Taraxacum (= Crocea), Kashmirana, Ruderalia and Erythrosperma. Estimated nuclear 2C DNA content ranged from 1.74 pg in diploid T. linearisquameum (T. sect. Ruderalia) to 6.91 pg in tetraploid T. albidum (T. sect. Mongolica), demonstrating 3.97-fold variation. The lowest monoploid genome size 1C = 0.87 pg was recorded in T. linearisquameum (T. sect. Ruderalia) together with T. brachyglossum (T. sect. Erythrosperma), and the highest one (1.73 pg) was recorded in T. albidum (T. sect. Mongolica), giving a 1.99-fold difference in the genus. No significant differences in genome size were observed within T. sect. Ruderalia, similarly no intraspecific variation was observed in T. paludosum (T. sect. Palustria) and T. serotinum (T. sect. Dioszegia). These results indicate a high intraspecific stability of the trait. Preliminary comparisons of genome size in species/sections considered to be close relatives were made. These data give tentative additional evidence for the close phylogenetic relationship between sections Palustria and Piesis and against the close relationship between sections Piesis and Dioszegia.
41245484|Heavy-metal content is assumed to be the most important edaphic factor that determines vegetation composition on contaminated soil. We compared the effects of heavy metals on species composition and species richness in the heavy metal-dry grassland complex of the Bottendorf Hills (Central Germany) with those of other environmental factors. Based on 206 relevs, we distinguished nine communities of the classes Koelerio-Corynephoretea and Festuco-Brometea. Four communities in which the metallophytes Armeria martima subsp. halleri and Minuartia verna subsp. hercynica occurred with high frequency were classified as heavy metal subassociations of four different dry grassland associations because of the dominance of dry grassland species. We measured the soil content of copper, zinc and lead, and the carbonate content, C/N ratio, pH and conductivity of the soil, soil depth and incident radiation per site. The first axis resulting from a DCA was positively correlated with the cover and height of the herb layer, the soil depth and soil carbonate content, and negatively with the soil content of copper, the proportion of rocks, the soil C/N ratio and incident radiation per site. The number of vascular plants, bryophyte and lichen species per plot increased with pH up to 7.5 and then decreased slightly. Species richness increased with carbonate content and conductivity of the soil and decreased with the soil C/N ratio. Heavy metal content of the soil and species richness were not correlated. The occurrence of the metallophytes was strongly related to the copper content of the soil. In conclusion our study has shown that heavy metal content is not necessarily the main factor determining the total composition and richness of grasslands on soil containing heavy metals. Heavy metal grasslands are not necessarily floristically distinct from "normal" dry grasslands.
4201279|The influence of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus - Glomus etunicatum and changes in light quality (decrease of red/far-red ratio) on the growth of three Festuca rubra clones, ecotypes originating from a mountain grassland region, was studied in a growth chamber experiment. Inoculation with the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus and low red/far-red ratio decreased both the number of tillers and the biomass of treated plants. Significant interactions between the treatments were found and most of the growth characteristics were reduced further when both treatments were applied simultaneously. Inoculation with the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus also resulted in reduced maximum height of tillers, whereas low red/far-red ratio caused the maximum height of tillers to increase. Differences in plasticity were found for the three Festuca rubra clones. Response to one treatment was strongly modified by the other treatment. This indicates that the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus and red/far-red ratio can differentially influence the growth of Festuca rubra clones and thus modify their relative competitive abilities which can consequently have implications for the coexistence mechanisms within plant population, thereby potentially influencing plant canopy and community structure.
25133806|Phragmites mauritianus is the dominant herbaceous species colonizing riverine habitats in the Kruger National Park, South Africa. These perennial systems are characterized by high annual and seasonal flow variability and a complex mosaic of patches of reeds, sand, water, rock and other vegetation. Patterns of increase and decrease in reed cover in the Letaba River were determined from aerial photographs covering a 54-year period. An initial period of reed expansion (1942-1965) was followed by a period of reed loss (1965-1977) and subsequent gradual re-establishment (1977-1996). A spatially explicit analysis of changes in reed distribution over an 8-year period (1988-1996) showed that patches of reed vegetation are, in the short term, highly dynamic elements within the river landscape. Analyzing short-term, small-scale change provides information which is not obtainable from long-term, large-scale studies. We propose that causes of reed expansion or decline cannot be determined without an understanding of both long- and short-term patterns of change.
23064943|At the ecological level, the effects of the facultative root hemiparasite Rhinanthus minor on the structure and functioning of its host communities are relative well described; yet until recently, the mechanistic basis for parasitic plantdriven community change and the physiological basis for the host-parasite interaction were poorly understood. Empirical incremental flow models, based on the increase in water, mineral nutrients, carbon assimilates or phytohormones between two defined time points, have been successfully employed to investigate the physiology of resource acquisition by- and distribution within host-parasitic plant associations. In this study we review the application of these empirical flow models to Rhinanthus-host associations showing the extent of and physiological basis of resource abstraction from the host and how this is profoundly influenced by soil nutrient status. We show that Rhinanthus primarily abstracts water and mineral nutrients via the apoplastic pathway through direct lumen-lumen connections with little resource acquisition via symplastic pathways. Nutrient status of the soil is shown to significantly influence the resource acquisition. We also investigate the hormonal regulation of resource acquisition by Rhinanthus showing pivotal roles for the key for the phytohormones abscisic acid (ABA) and cytokinins.
41245546|This study presents the analysis of 381 phytosociological releves describing predominantly ombrotrophic South Patagonian lowland peatland vegetation along a gradient of increasing continentality. Numerical methods such as cluster analysis and detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) were carried out to explore the data set. Cluster analysis resulted in nine vegetation types that were also distinctly separated in DCA ordination. The major flonstic coenocline along the first DCA axis reflected a gradient of continentality ranging from pacific blanket bogs dominated by cushion plants to Sphagnum-dominated continental raised bogs. Increasing continentality along the first axis was parallel with decreasing peat decomposition and increasing peat depth and acidity. In contrast, floristic variation along the second DCA axis represented a water level gradient. The typical sequence of vegetation types along the hollow-hummock moisture gradient that is well established for north hemispherical peatlands could also be observed in Sphagnum-dominated South Patagonian raised bogs with a surprising similarity in floristic and structural features. Concerning the gradient of continentality significant differences in comparison with the northern hemisphere could be established. Most obvious was the dominance of cushion building plants (e.g. Astelia pumila, Donatia fascicularis) in South Patagonian oceanic peatlands, whereas this life form is totally absent from the northern hemisphere. Similar to the continental Sphagnum bogs the cushion plant vegetation of hyperoceanic peatlands exhibited a clear separation along the moisture gradient.
25134013| Species richness in vascular plants was related to the plants' calcifuge or calcicole behaviour using documentation from forests and open-land vegetation at about one thousand sites in the southern parts of Sweden. It is concluded that vegetation of strongly acid soils (pH-KCl < 4.5) have fewer vascular plant species than comparable vegetation of other soils, whereas there are no consistent differences in species richness between slightly-moderately acid and calcareous sites. Low species richness is particularly related to high concentrations of Al and H ions (either soil solution concentrations or concentrations of exchangeable ions), not to a lack of calcium carbonate. The majority of plant species are able to render the sparingly soluble phosphate, iron and manganese compounds of high-pH soils available, but they are unable to tolerate much Al or H. Acidicole (calcifuge) species have developed the power of tolerating Al and H, which may be considered a secondary property of plants, but they have lost the power of solubilizing critical mineral nutrients in high-pH soils. The reasons why these ecophysiological properties are inversely related in the current flora are obscure, difficult to account for experimentally and a main ecological problem. In areas with cool-temperate climates the flora was partly or mainly extinguished by the Pleistocene glaciations. Comparatively fewer calcifuge than calcicole species have, since then, had enough time to develop, and the number of calcifuges is lower, in spite of the fact that most natural and seminatural soils of these areas are nowadays acidic. 
25133820|The seed germination and seedling establishment of Alisma gramineum, A. lanceolatum and A. plantago-aquatica were investigated to find differences in the reproductive strategy of these species and to explain their ecological and distributional differentiation. The influences of stratification, temperature and flooding on seed germination, winter survival of seedlings and their further development were tested in the laboratory and in the experimental garden. Seeds of the all species studied were dormant immediately after harvesting. Cold stratification was necessary for successful germination. Seeds germinated best under shallow water in temperatures of 25 C and 25/10 C and did not need fluctuating day/night temperatures to break dormancy. Seedlings established best under the limosal-terrestrial conditions in summer, and overwintered successfully only when flooded. The main interspecific differences found were in the percentage of germinative and dormant seeds, in the germination rates after individual treatments, in the course of ontogenetic development and in the longevity as well as in the resistance of vegetative organs to environmental conditions. Possible effects of the above-listed facts on the ecological amplitude and distribution of the studied species are discussed.
23064561|Temporal turnover is a fundamental feature of ecological communities. Darwin 1859 noted the ecological and evolutionary significance of turnover, Fisher and Preston acknowledged its role in their models of species abundance, while this ongoing and entirely natural rearrangement of species underpins key ecological concepts such as MacArthur and Wilson's theory of island biogeography. However, the current focus on spatial patterns of diversity means that temporal changes are often overlooked. Here I argue that failure to take heed of the time frame over which data are collected can lead to both artefacts and artifictions. There are also deeper issues, such as the consequences for species richness estimation and rarefaction methods of a constantly changing community. Moreover, some of the confusion surrounding species abundance distributions may be resolved by taking account of time. A better appreciation of temporal turnover is essential for accurate diversity measurement and assessment, and, more importantly, will also lead to improved understanding of the processes that underpin community structure.
23065015|Traits related to seed dispersal, clonality and bud bank affect the success or failure of plant species. Using data from 13 successional seres in various humanmade habitats the spectra of traits associated with dispersal and persistence were compared to determine the traits that can be used to predict the occurrence of particular plant species at each stage in a succession and how the importance of these traits changes over time. Differences in the traits of species associated with primary and secondary successions were also studied. Species with seeds that are dispersed by water (hydrochory) decreased in abundance during the course of succession. Species with a splitting main root, monocyclic and dicyclic shoots also decreased in abundance. Species capable of forming a potential below-ground bud bank, hypogeogenous rhizome and retaining a long-term connection with clonal offspring increased in abundance. The results indicate that seed dispersal is more important in determining the species composition in the early stages of succession whereas bud banks and clonal traits are more important in the later stages and for colonizing a locality. Primary and secondary seres did not remarkably differ in the trait spectra of the species present indicating that these trends occur in both types of succession.
23064545|We aimed to understand the regional population dynamics of the endemic fern lineage Diellia (D. erecta, D. erecta f. alexandri, D. falcata, D. mannii, D. pallida, and D. unisora) in mesic forests on the Hawaiian Islands. In particular, we were interested in whether studying life-stage structure would contribute to setting conservation management priorities and understanding regional dynamics. A repeated field survey of historically recorded population locations and most of the known populations were performed between 1999 and 2005. Distribution data available since 1838 show that these ferns have become extinct from 86% of the formerly recorded locations and the number of recorded extinction events exceeds the number of recorded appearance events. A significantly stronger cumulative impact of alien animals and plants distinguishes the habitats of extinct populations from other sites. The status of 19 local populations was assessed on the basis of stage structure as 'dynamic' (2 populations, sporelings predominate), 'normal' (8 populations), or 'regressive' (9 populations, mature plants predominate). Population size was negatively dependent on soil disturbance by alien animals. The existence of small regressive Diellia populations possibly indicates a delayed extinction process due to habitat deterioration. The study of life-stage structure, together with information about population size, is a useful tool to evaluate conservation management priorities and understand regional dynamics in conditions where demographic and precise distribution data are lacking. We conclude that the whole lineage is critically endangered and the impact of alien ungulates is obviously the main threat.
23064944|Hybridization in annual plants is rare, but their short life cycle provides an excellent opportunity to study the dynamics of hybridization. Hybridization occurs between the annual hemiparasites Rhinanthus minor and Rhinanthus angustifolius (Orobanchaceae). Using flower morphology, Kwak (1980) found a prevalence of hybrids close to R. angustifolius in a single population. We aim to find whether this pattern is also found using genetic markers, whether it is generally occurring in mixed populations, and whether these populations are stable over time. We used species-specific genetic markers to determine the number of individuals in a range of hybrid classes in three mixed populations of different ages during four consecutive years. In the young population, F hybrids were found in the first year and mostly hybrids between R. minor and these Fs in the second year, but in the years after that, hybrids close to R. angustifolius became more abundant. We also found this in the two older populations, where hybrids close to R. angustifolius always occurred in higher frequencies than hybrids close to R. minor. Over time, R. angustifolius strongly increased in frequency in two populations. Patterns of marker presence and absence suggested that advanced-generation hybrids are mainly formed by back-crossing with one of the parents, predominantly R. angustifolius whenever its frequency in the population is higher than 15%. The dynamics of mixed populations depend on the ecological conditions that regulate the presence of the two parental species, and introgression into R. angustifolius seems prevalent.
25134008|The pool of the Central European flora consists of a majority of vascular plant taxa that are restricted to very base rich and calcareous soils. Ellenberg indicator values for Germany indicate that this floristic pattern is one of the potentially most powerful determinants of the richness of modern temperate plant communities. Considering the example of the forest flora, which, as the putative natural core of the species pool, exhibits the same skew, it is shown that neither the frequency of suitable soil types nor other correlated ecological factors can explain this striking pattern. Also, the ramification of higher taxa offers no indication of higher evolution speeds in calciphilous plants. As an alternative, it is hypothesized that Pleistocene range contractions have caused the extinction of more acidophilous than calciphilous species, because acid soils were much rarer when refugial areas were at their minimum. If this is correct, one of the most significant ecological patterns in the contemporary distribution of plant diversity must be regarded as a result of ecological drift imposed by a historical bottleneck.
41245509|In spite of the widespread use of statistics in plant ecology, some misunderstandings are widespread. Lajer's warning against non-random sampling in the field is well taken, but non-randomization is probably more common than we realize in experimental work too, and a frequent cause of inexplicable "significant" results. However, in the placement of quadrats/samples, restricted randomization is always preferable to plain random. The main purpose of randomization, as R. A. Fisher made clear, is to obtain a valid estimate of the error. Random placement does not, as Fisher realized, ensure independence of samples because of spatial autocorrelation, which is present in all ecological work. If we forget this, we can end up concluding that elephants carefully select moss cushions to tread on. Although anormal distribution is often formally required, tests such as the Analysis of Variance are fairly robust against departures. Obsession with normality leads to the use of inappropriate transformations, for example a log transformation when the author had no intention of a multiplicative model. Even worse is the use of a log (x + 1) transformation, which gives answers in neither additive nor multiplicative terms, and in a way unrelated to the means presented. There are several solutions to this, including randomization tests. After all this, we should not take the arbitrary value of 0.05 too seriously. Many statisticians do not.
25133994| Three taxa are recognized at the species level within the Hieracium pietroszense group in the Carpathians. Each of them is likely to be a stenoendemic of the particular mountain range. H. pietroszense Degen et Zahn is a tetraploid species (2n=36, first karyological report) confined to the relict rocky biotopes in the subalpine belt of the Munii Rodnei (Romanian East Carpathians). H. borsanum Zahn ex Mrz growing on the more-or-less disturbed sites in the supramontane and subalpine belt of the same mountain range, is closely related to H. pietroszense. This triploid (2n=27) apomictic species prefers tourist paths and their margins, or it can be found on the secondarily formed subalpine pastures. Hieracium deylii Mrz is a new taxon found in the relict subalpine grassy-rocky biotopes in the Svydovets' Mts. (Ukrainian East Carpathians). It is tetraploid (2n=36, first report) with apomictic formation of seeds. Detailed morphological descriptions, with figures, nomenclature and the main distinguishable characters for all three species, are given. The other taxa included in this collective intermediate species by Zahn are discussed. The neotype for H. pietroszense is selected. Lectotypes are chosen for some other names. 
24572020|Quantifying species relative abundances in plant communities remains a key issue for the assessment of community functional structure. This is particularly challenging when non-destructive estimates are required over time. We tested whether the point intercept method (PIM), originally developed for low-diverse communities, is relevant for assessing the aboveground biomass and functional structure of highly diverse, low-productive Mediterranean grasslands. We sampled 18 communities with the PIM along a gradient of soil depth and texture, twice over the growing season. After each sampling period, we harvested the aboveground biomass in order to measure species biomass and to assess species richness and community functional structure with plant height, leaf area and leaf dry matter content (LDMC). We investigated the relationship between point intercept measurements and aboveground biomass at three hierarchical levels (species, growth-form and community) to find generalizable calibration equations for estimating community biomass and tested for sensitivity of estimates to community structure. We then compared the community weighted mean (CWM) and variance (CWV) of LDMC, calculated with and without calibration. Differences in species growth strategy and phenology strongly impacted biomass estimates at both the species and the community level. These differences were, however, successfully accounted for by growth-form specific calibrations, which provided accurate estimates without any influence of community structure. Lack of calibration may have dramatic consequences on functional structure assessment by inducing errors in estimates of CWV up to 80 %, depending on growth-form proportions. This work contributes to a better understanding of the possible methodological biases induced during sampling with the PIM, when quantifying species relative abundances for functional structure assessment in complex communities.
25133808|The morphology, productivity and C/N-balance of 9 different clones of Phragmites australis planted in 1997 in a degraded fen area of 40,000 m was investigated in order to estimate the degree of variation between the genotypes. The planted reed clones showed significant differences in morphology, standing crop and stand structure at the same site. The above-ground biomass of some reed clones was due to high culms and large leaf areas, while among others it was due to high shoot densities and small culms. The productivity of the individual clones also differed. At the end of the 1998 growing season the standing crop of the clones ranged from about 700 to 2,000 g of dry matter per m. Differences were found in the C/N-dynamics as in the standing stock of total nitrogen in the above-ground biomass (ranging from 15 to 50 g N/m) and the relative nitrogen content of the shoots. Furthermore, seasonal changes in the amount of free amino acids and carbohydrates in the basal internodes of the different clones were compared. The patterns are discussed with respect to the nutritional status of the reed plants. In conclusion, the results suggest high genotypic variation despite the comparable site conditions and thus a strong influence of genetically determined differences in growth and resource exploitation on the characteristics of reed clones.
41245533|A taxonomic study of the Sesleria juncifolia complex in the Italian Peninsula is presented, with a focus on southern Italian populations here named as Sesleria calabrica (DEYL) Di Pietro comb. nov. et stat. nov. Karyological, morphological and anatomical characters were used for comparative analyses with populations of closely related species, such as S. juncifolia Suffren and Sesleria apennina Ujhelyi occurring in the Italian Peninsula. Multivariate and univariate morphometric analyses, and qualitative morphological characters showed a distinct position of S. calabrica. Populations of S. calabrica differ in respect to various morphological characters of leaf and spikelet, such as the glume, lemma and palea length, stem length, the leaf sheath, leaf width, leaf thickness, and the total number of vascular bundles. Furthermore, previous karyological studies demonstrated that all the populations of both S. juncifolia and S. apennina examined are octoploid (2n=8x=56), whereas S. calabrica was found to be dodecaploid (2n=12x=84). S. calabrica is strictly confined to the Pollino massif and the Orsomarso mountains in southern Italy, which represent the southernmost limit of the Sesleria juncifolia complex distribution area both in Italy and in Europe. In addition to S. juncifolia and S. calabrica, the recognition of S. apennina as a taxon distinct from S. juncifolia is supported, at least for the area of the Apuan Alps.
23064546|The effects of the chemical and physical factors associated with geothermal activity on plant community structure and composition were investigated in one of the largest geothermal fields of central Italy. The study site was located in the geothermal area of Sasso Pisano  Monte Rotondo Marittimo, Southern Tuscany. The percentage cover of all vascular plant, bryophyte and lichen species was estimated within 119 circular plots of 0.25 m. For each plot the soil pH, soil temperature, slope, aspect, incident radiation, soil nitrogen and carbon contents were also quantified. Two vascular plants, Calluna vulgaris and Agrostis castellana, were found to be the most widespread species tolerating the harshest conditions in terms of low soil pH and high soil temperature. The most widespread cryptogam species was Hypnum cupressiforme. Spatially autoregressive models showed that a proportion of about 4151% of the variance in species richness of one group of plants (vascular or cryptogamic plants) could be modelled by using three or four uncorrelated environmental factors respectively (soil temperature, soil nitrogen and soil C/N ratio and these three plus incident radiation). For the total number of species (vascular and cryptogamic plants), the variance explained by the same three uncorrelated variables was about 57%. This study evidenced a strong environmental control of community composition and species richness, in a site subjected to extreme soil values of soil pH and temperature. The dominance of vascular over cryptogamic vegetation in this geothermal site can be explained by the combined effects of geothermal stress (low soil pH and high soil temperature) with the summer drought typical of the Mediterranean climate.
23486781|The occurrence of diploid and tetraploid cytotypes in Thymus section Mastichina (Lamiaceae) was investigated by chromosome counting and flow cytometric measurements of DNA content. To cover the entire native distribution of the section across the Iberian Peninsula, plant material was sampled from 29 populations, representing all three taxa (Thymus albicans, T. mastichina subsp. mastichina and T. mastichina subsp. donyanae). We provide first estimates of genome size for taxa of this section. Analyses revealed the existence of new cytotypes in T. mastichina subsp. mastichina (2n=2x=28, 30) and confirmed the existence of previous ones (2n=4x=56, 58, 60). We also confirmed the presence of exclusively diploid cytotypes (2n=2x=30) in the southwestern Iberian endemics T. albicans and T. mastichina subsp. donyanae. We conclude that the southwestern Iberian Peninsula acted as a Pleistocene glacial refugium that may have permitted speciation processes within this section. Several hypotheses concerning these processes and the origin and distribution of the studied taxa are discussed.
23264771|Hurricane Dean, a category 4 storm, impacted the forests along the western coast of Martinique on August 17, 2007. In March 2008, plots were selected in the rainforest of the Plateau Concorde, which presented a range of post-hurricane damage. The study focused on climber community patterns in two extreme ranges of disturbance (HIP: highly damaged plots; LIP: lightly damaged plots). The objectives of the study were to i) obtain data on forest architecture and light regime, ii) determine the species diversity and abundance among climbers, and iii) identify recurrent patterns of association among traits within this flora. Fisheye photos showed significant differences in canopy geometry and light microclimate between HIP and LIP. One transect in each extreme range of disturbance showed that the floors were similarly covered but the distribution of foliar density in the vertical structure was evenly distributed from the floor to the canopy in LIP and was exclusively concentrated within the first meter in HIP. Five hundred and eleven climbers were counted, measured and identified in 12 plots (30 m  30 m). Correspondence analysis of the selected traits revealed four functional groups (C1 to C4). C1 and C2 included understory climbers and C3 and C4 were composed of overstory climbers showing differences in stem or leaf nature. We identified eight species among the 161 trees >5 cm dbh (diameter at breast height) assessed in the 12 plots supporting climbers. A linear regression showed that large trees were more colonized than smaller trunks. The mean number of climbers per host trunk was 2.7, with no significant difference between HIP and LIP plots. In spite of the great differences in forest architecture, canopy openness and light regime, the 16 climber species were present in all plots. Five species, all belonging to one of the four functional groups, varied in abundance. In the HIP plots, the dramatic expansion of Cayaponia americana (C1), a ruderal plant frequently observed at lower altitudes, was noteworthy. Our results suggest that climbers present highly efficient morphological adaptations to hurricanes. Indeed, they are mostly linked to a single host, they strongly reiterate after breakage, and they show low clumping.
25134080|Dispersal limitation was studied in a species-rich meadow (53-65 species of vascular plants per 1.1 m) to which a mixture of weeds was accidentally sown. Even if none of the sown species belonged to the local species pool, five species successfully established. Of them one persisted for 7 years, however declined from 41 individuals in 1995 to 1 individual recorded in 2001. These results can be interpreted as an evidence for short-term diaspore limitation. In contrast, long-term data indicate no diaspore limitation. Establishment of weeds in subplots with a lower number of species and individuals was higher than in other subplots, indicating that plant establishment in the studied open-canopy grassland is affected by the spatial pattern of present plants.
25134110|This paper gives an overview of current research into the biology of hemiparasitic Orobanchaceae, formerly part of the Scrophulariaceae. It is based on presentations and discussions that took place during the First International Symposium on non-weedy hemiparasitic Orobanchaceae in April 2004 in Wageningen. Aspects such as taxonomy and evolution, ecophysiology, population and restoration ecology are discussed, thus identifying challenges for future research. Hemiparasites have very different life histories, and the robust molecular phylogeny will now permit testing hypotheses regarding the evolution of these life histories, degree of parasitism and host specialization. In a number of genera, evolution is in full swing, leading to taxonomical complications, but at the same time offering opportunites for phylogeographical research. In ecophysiology, the challenge is to better understand what makes a good host and to investigate further the chemical signals emitted by the host and their use in regulating parasite development. Finally, the results of sowing hemiparasites to speed up the restoration of nutrient-poor grasslands are still very variable, and we need a more through understanding of the factors influencing population dynamics, which should also enable us to devise better management plans for threatened hemiparasitic species.
25133941|Forest communities dominated by Picea jezoensis (Yezo spruce) are described from across their entire distributional range in eastern Asia, including the territories of the Russian Far East and Japan. A total of 476 relevs are used representing the following dominant types of spruce forests: pure P. jezoensis, mixed P. jezoensis and Abies sachalinensis, mixed P. jezoensis and Abies nephrolepis, and pure Picea glehnii communities. The vegetation is classified into 11 associations, 2 community types, 6 subassociations, 25 variants and 8 subvariants. Nine associations, including the Asaro heterotropoidis-Abietetum sachalinensis, Weigelo middendorffianae-Piceetum jezoensis, Lysichito-Piceetum glehnii, Swido albae-Piceetum obovatae, Oplopanaco elati-Piceetum jezoensis, Philadelpho tenuifolii-Piceetum jezoensis, Vaccinio-Piceetum jezoensis, Rhododendro aurei-Piceetum jezoensis, and Moneseto uniflorae-Piceetum jezoensis, are described for the first time. The ecology and structure of all communities are described and their syntaxonomy discussed. The communities are placed in three alliances, Piceion jezoensis, Abieti nephrolepidis-Piceion jezoensis and Pino pumilae-Piceion jezoensis, all. nov. All of the communities described are considered to belong to the order Abieti-Piceetalia of the class Vaccinio-Piceetea.
25133948|The effect of different grazing regimes on pasture vegetation was studied during the intensive grazing of heifers in the Jizersk hory mountains during 1993-1997. The vegetation was monitored in 3 pairs of permanent 1  1 m plots using a continuous grid of nine 0.33  0.33 m subplots. We applied continuous stocking and rotational grazing. Vegetation varied as a result of time and differences between treatments. Several prostrate dicotyledonous species (Trifolium repens, Taraxacum sp., Bellis perennis and Leontodon autumnalis) increased under continuous stocking. This treatment also promoted the growth of the perennial grass Lolium perenne, which was able to cope with frequent defoliation. Tall grasses sensitive to frequent defoliation (Poa travialis, Holcus mollis, Alopecurus pratensis, Dactylis glomerata and Elytrigia repens) were more abundant in rotationally grazed paddocks. Species diversity was not significantly influenced by the different grazing systems. The decrease in the potential sward height under continuous stocking revealed the replacing of tall dominants by lower species. Our results indicate that different grazing systems alter the composition and structure of grassland vegetation. Defining the intensity of grazing under continuous stocking or rotational grazing is complex due to the different stocking rates and the heights of sward during a grazing season. Information about pasture management should therefore involve not only grazing intensity but also the grazing system used.
23064550|Forty-nine morphological characters were scored or measured on 44 populations (376 individuals) of Viola subsect. Viola from the West Carpathians and adjacent areas (Slovakia, Czech Republic, Austria and Hungary). The presence of six species, namely V. alba (represented by subsp. alba), V. ambigua, V. collina, V. hirta, V. odorata and V. suavis s.l. was revealed based on pollen fertility, cytological and morphometric analyses. The morphological characters traditionally used to delimit taxa within the subsection and those revealed by our study as most reliable are widely discussed. A key for identifying the taxa and most common hybrids of subsection Viola occurring in the West Carpathians is presented. Chromosome counting and flow cytometry were used to determine the ploidy levels of the populations studied. All individuals of V. alba subsp. alba, V. collina, V. hirta and V. odorata were tetraploid, while those of V. ambigua and V. suavis s.l. were octoploid.
23064500|The mountains of the southeast Iberian Peninsula harbor several narrowly endemic species belonging to Narcissus section Pseudonarcissi (N. alcaracensis, N. bugei, N. enemeritoi, N. longispathus, N. nevadensis, N. segurensis, and N. yepesii) that are protected by regional Spanish laws. Most of these trumpet daffodils show a very similar overall morphology, and the correct identification of species is difficult unless the geographical origins of the accessions are known. ISSR (Inter-Simple Sequence Repeat) and nuclear ribosomal ITS sequences were used to assess patterns of genetic discontinuities present among the members of this section from southeast Spain. Species-specific ISSR bands were found in N. bugei, N. longispathus and N. nevadensis, but were absent in the other species. The multivariate ordination of the 288 ISSR-genotyped accessions showed that only N. longispathus and N. bugei were clearly differentiated, while the other species formed an unresolved group. ITS sequences of N. bugei were highly divergent from those retrieved from the remaining species, which were placed in a single largely unresolved clade in phylogenetic analysis. In conclusion, ISSR and ITS markers support the taxonomic distinction of N. bugei and N. longispathus. However, N. alcaracensis, N. segurensis, N. yepesii, N. enemeritoi, and N. nevadensis could be merged within a single species (N. nevadensis for nomenclatural priority).
25134036|A survey of Taraxacum taxa described from Latin America is presented. Taraxacum sect. Antarctica is revised taxonomically. The plants usually classified as members of the section in the southernmost South America, often under several species names, proved to represent a single taxon, Taraxacum gilliesii. The species proved to be diploid with 2n=16, reproducing sexually, which is documented by tetrad formation in megasporogenesis. The sexual reproduction is responsible for the considerable variation in a number of the species' characters. Full synonymy, notes on the nomenclature (including typification) and a description of the section and the species are also given. An analysis of plants often referred to as T. magellanicum from New Zealand is given. Plants from Australia and New Zealand were found to be sexual and belonging to a new section, T. sect. Australasica.
25134025|For the first time, a tentative overview of described plant communities in Denmark is presented according to the phytosociological Braun-Blanquet approach. An attempt was made to compile all available names of syntaxa at the association level, which have appeared in the literature, mostly as defined from vascular plants and the Charetea. In total 173 associations belonging to 38 classes have been registered in Denmark. The listed associations are characterized by a brief description of their ecology, Danish distribution and rarity. Basic literature sources for each syntaxon are provided. The current knowledge of Danish plant communities is discussed. It is concluded that the number of known syntaxa from Denmark is probably underestimated.
23486780|An inventory of the endemic vascular plants of the Peloponnese (395 species and subspecies) has been created based on literature, herbarium and field data. Endemics' distribution patterns, altitudinal distribution and habitat specificity were investigated. A rarity score for each endemic has been calculated based on its population size, geographic range and habitat specificity. The main mountainous areas of the Peloponnese are largely congruent to the hotspots of endemism. Altitudinal range and niche breadth of the endemics were positively correlated to their range size. The elevational gradient of the endemic species richness showed a hump-shaped pattern, in contrast to the monotonically decreasing pattern of total species richness. Endemic species were found to support boundary theory, while total species richness distribution followed the Rapoport's elevational rule. The elevational distribution of the average rarity score and the average weighted threat of the endemics resulted in low values for mid-elevation intervals and increased values for low and high altitude areas, indicating that conservation efforts should focus on the two extremes of the elevational gradient. Area prioritization methods were applied using a rarity/complementarity based algorithm with two species weighting schemes. Their results were largely congruent confirming the significance of the main mountainous areas for the conservation of the endemics. Spatial overlap among selected grid cells using the rarity/complementarity analysis and Natura 2000 network was found to be low. Our results revealed the conservation importance of at least one new area located on Kythera Island.
41245514|LJER (2007) raised the problem of using a non-random sample for statistical testing of plant community data. He argued that this violates basic assumptions of the tests, resulting thus in non-significant results. However, a huge part of present-day knowledge of vegetation science is still based on non-random, preferentially collected data of plant communities. I argue that, given the inherent limits of preferential sampling, a change of approach is now necessary, with the adoption of sampling based on random principles seeming the obvious choice. However, a complete transition to random-based sampling designs in vegetation science is limited by the yet undefined nature of plant communities and by the still diffused opinion that plant communities have a discrete nature. Randomly searching for such entities is almost impossible, given their dependence on scale of observation, plot size and shape, and the need for finding well-defined types. I conclude that the only way to solve this conundrum is to consider and study plant communities as operational units. If the limits of the plant communities are defined operationally, they can be investigated using proper sampling techniques and the collected data analyzed using adequate statistical tools.
4201329|The present work collects the new names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of phytosociological nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank found in the literature received by the Library of the Conservatoire Botanique in Geneva. For the year 1994 851 names were listed corresponding to 34 classes, 55 orders, 2 suborders, 128 alliances, 29 suballiances, and 603 associations. For each of them, an assessment of its validity is given relating to the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature. 72 names are given to add to the Indices 1991, 1992, 1993 (Theurillat & Moravec 1994, 1995, 1996).
23065014|Forest coppicing leads to changes in composition of the herbaceous understory through soil disturbance and alteration of the light regime. While the role of seed dispersal traits at the start of succession after coppicing has been extensively studied, the role of persistence traits such as clonal growth and bud banks is not yet sufficiently understood. To gain better understanding of this role, we studied the patterns of clonal growth organs and related clonal traits of species in a series of coppiced beech forests of the Central Apennines (Marches region, Italy) in various stages of recovery after the last coppicing event. We conducted stratified random sampling and established a chronosequence of recovery stages based on stand age (reflecting the number of years since the last coppicing). The beech stands were classified into three age groups (Post-logged, Recovering, and Old-coppice stands) according to the characteristic stages of beech coppice dynamics. Clonal growth organs and the corresponding clonal traits of plants in the forest understory vegetation were assessed with the help of a CLO-PLA1 database. We found no significant change in the proportion of clonal species along the studied chronosequence. In contrast, most of the traits and about the half of the clonal growth organs showed correlation with stand age or preference for a certain habitat (i.e., stage of regeneration). Clonal and bud bank traits proved to play an important role in the persistence of species subjected to forest coppicing cycles in the studied area.
25134097|Orobanchaceae, as it is currently defined, includes all levels of parasitic ability ranging from nonparasitic (Lindenbergia) to facultative and obligate hemiparasites to obligate holoparasites. Several genera are of economic importance as crop weeds and have been studied by scientists interested in developing methods of control, but most genera have not been studied in a comparative framework. In this study we have used ITS sequence data to build a phylogenetic framework with which to examine previous systematic hypotheses of relationships among genera, and biogeographic hypotheses of either a Cretaceous, Gondwanan or mid-Tertiary, Laurasian origin of the family. A single-most parsimonious ITS tree was produced from a combined data set of nucleotides and gap characters. Our results support the current classification of Orobanchaceae and a hypothesis of a mid-Tertiary, Laurasian origin of the family.
25133877|Old-growth Pseudotsuga-Tsuga forests of the Pacific Northwest Coast of North America are characterized by the presence of large, old trees of Pseudotsuga menziesii var. menziesii (Douglas-fir). Colonizing soon after a stand-replacing disturbance, P. menziesii persists in these forests, coexisting for centuries with the late-successional species. P. menziesii survives by maintaining emergent status in the uppermost part of the forest canopy, above the crowns of competing late-successional species. After reaching maximum tree height and crown size, P. menziesii maintains shoots and foliage of the established crown by epicormic shoot production. In this review, we propose that attaining emergent status in the upper canopy combined with the process of crown maintenance contributes to the persistence of P. menziesii into later stages of succession, making this species a long-lived pioneer that between infrequent disturbances can coexist with late-successional species for centuries.
25133913|Coniferous forests are a significant feature in the natural vegetation of the Mediterranean mountains, but most stands are rather degraded and the present distribution is just a fraction of its potential natural area. The Parnonas range (Peloponnese, Greece) ranks among the most extensive areas with a well-preserved mountain coniferous forest in the Mediterranean. The present paper aims at describing the conifer-dominated vegetation of this mountain and the ecological roles of the prevailing species Abies cephalonica, Pinus nigra, and Juniperus drupacea. For comparison, a survey is provided of the Abies cephalonica forests in the total distribution area, using all published relevs. Species composition and abundance, together with structural and abiotic parameters were recorded in 118 relevs distributed throughout Mt. Parnon. The phytosociological classification reveals 8 interpretable vegetation types well separated by groups of diagnostic species and presented in a synoptic table. The ecology and distribution of the units are outlined, and they are assigned to 4 associations within the Abietion cephalonicae (Helictotricho convoluti-Abietetum cephalonicae, Junipero drupaceae-Abietetum cephalonicae, Lilio chalcedonicae-Abietetum cephalonicae, Pyrolo chloranthae- -Pinetum nigrae). The syntaxonomy and nomenclature of these associations, two of which are described as new, are discussed. The most important gradients in the data matrix found by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) are related to altitude/climate and rockiness/soil. The communities are well segregated in the ordination space, and the fairly distinct clusters of the three conifer species are discussed. These conifers may be arranged along a gradient of decreasing drought tolerance from Juniperus through Abies to Pinus. The latter is predominant and most vital essentially on schistose soils, or else reflects previous disturbance by, e.g., wildfires. Juniperus drupacea is a subordinate low tree or shrub in Tripolitza limestone Abies forest. The vitality of Abies cephalonica as expressed by tree height and structure is best in the Lilio-Abietetum, between 1300 and 1600 m. The community variation within the total area of the Abietion cephalonicae reflects a principal differentiation in xerophytic and mesophytic stands. This pattern is encountered in various mountains and suggests that water supply is the crucial factor governing the floristic variation in the mountain coniferous forests.
23064582|The capacity to generate variation in ploidy and reproductive mode was compared in facultatively apomictic versus sexual maternal plants that coexist in two model populations. The population structure was studied in polyploid hybrid swarms comprised of Hieracium pilosella (usually sexual, less commonly apomictic), H. bauhini (apomictic), and their hybrids (sexual, apomictic, or sterile). Relationships among established biotypes were proposed on the basis of their DNA ploidy level/chromosome number, reproductive mode and morphology. Isozyme phenotypes and chloroplast DNA haplotypes were assayed in the population that was richer in hybrids. The reproductive origin of seed progeny was identified in both sexual and apomictic mothers, using alternative methods: the karyological, morphological and reproductive characters of the cultivated progeny were compared with those of respective mothers, or flow cytometric seed screening was used. In both populations, the progeny of sexual mothers mainly retained a rather narrow range of ploidy level/chromosome number, while the progeny of facultatively apomictic mothers was more variable. The high-polyploid hybrids, which had arisen from the fertilization of unreduced egg cells of apomicts, mainly produced aberrant non-maternal progeny (either sexually and/or via haploid parthenogenesis). Apparently, such versatile reproduction resulted in genomic instability of the recently formed high-polyploid hybrids. While the progeny produced by both true apomictic and sexual mothers mostly maintained the maternal reproductive mode, the progeny of those 'versatile' mothers was mainly sexual. Herein, we argue that polyploid facultative apomicts can considerably increase population diversity.
4201266|The effect of a dominant species, the litter layer, and the moss layer on seedlings and established vegetation was evaluated in two manipulative experiments in an oligotrophic wet meadow (Molinion with some features of Violion caninae according to phytosociological classification). In the first experiment, the dominant species (Nardus stricta), litter layer, and litter layer together with the moss layer were removed and the response of the established vegetation and seedlings were compared with a control. Results revealed that after one season there was no significant effect of the treatments on established vegetation, but seedling recruitment was significantly affected. The greatest increase of seedling recruitment for many species was observed in the plots with the moss layer removed. In the second experiment, seeds of Selinum carvifolia were sown into plots subjected to the following treatments: complete vegetation removal, mowing, mowing combined with removal of the moss layer, and an untreated control. The highest number of seedlings was found in plots with the vegetation removed, but the seedling recruitment was nearly as high in plots with the moss layer removed. Low numbers were found in mown plots and the lowest in the untreated control. The results show that seedling recruitment is more sensitive to competition than the established vegetation, at least over one season. This supports the idea of the importance of the regeneration niche for the maintenance of diversity in grassland communities.
23064517|A taxonomic revision of the Asian species of Stuckenia, a segregate of Potamogeton, is presented. Six species are recognized and their morphological descriptions, nomenclature and typification of relevant names are given. Distributions of all species are described and lists of representative specimens and distribution maps provided. Lectotypes are designated for 24 names and nomenclatural types are listed for 22 additional names. The correct name for the species known as Potamogeton recurvatus is Stuckenia pamirica (Baage) Z. Kaplan, comb. nova. Morphological variation at different levels within the genus is described and compared with different concepts of its taxonomic interpretation. Instructions on examination of key characters are given, together with a key to species. Colour photographs illustrate the general appearance of species as well as many identification details. The pattern of variation and taxonomic validity of the Siberian morphotypes S. subretusa and S. austrosibirica are analyzed. The plasticity of diagnostic characters of P. juncifolius and of P. helveticus from the European Alps, the infraspecific classification of S. filiformis in North America, and the taxonomic status of S. punensis described from Peru are also discussed.
25133989|In Flanders (northern Belgium), Primula vulgaris, a self-incompatible long-lived perennial herb, is rare and consists of a network of fragmented populations in the intensively used agricultural landscape. We investigated genetic variation and structure using 27 allozyme loci in 41 populations, and reproductive success to assess the effect of fragmentation on gene flow and the influence of the nearest neighbouring (large and/or highly genetically diverse) population on within-population genetic variation and reproductive success. Isolation by distance was found among and within populations. Smaller and more isolated populations showed a slight loss of allelic variation, but maintained high levels of observed heterozygosity. They were not more differentiated from each other than large populations. No significant difference in the regression slopes of the spatial autocorrelation analysis was found between two continuous populations and two groups of fragmented populations with similar distance classes. Multiple regression showed that population allelic richness and reproductive success were higher when the nearest neighbouring population was genetically more diverse. These results suggest moderate current gene flow within and among populations rather than historical gene flow. We conclude that small and isolated populations of P. vulgaris should be considered not only as remnants of previously larger populations, but also as potential stepping stones insuring gene flow processes. For conservation, all highly variable and flowering populations should be considered, irrespective of their size or their isolation from large and continuous populations.
23064573|The genetic diversity and possible geographic structure of the Madeiran endemic Armeria maderensis have been assessed with AFLP. Its scarce distribution (less than 3 km between the two most distant localities) and restricted habitat (vertical pastures on the highest elevations of Madeira), at least in part due to grazing by goats, suggest an assessment of its conservation status. Diversity estimates obtained for A. maderensis were evaluated through comparison with reference values of AFLP diversity for outcrossing plants and, in order to correct for phylogenetic constraints, with a widespread congener analyzed with the same AFLP markers. Our results reveal that low levels of genetic diversity and a weak intraspecific genetic structure underlie the restricted distribution of A. maderensis.
23264903|Six taxa of the genus Taraxacum sect. Erythrosperma were analyzed morphometrically using multivariate methods. A total of 391 specimens from Slovakia, Hungary, Czech Republic and Austria were studied. This study aimed to explore if leaf shape can be used to differentiate diploids and triploids, to verify if triploid microspecies deserve separate taxonomic status, and if the diploid plants can be divided into phenotype groups. The analysis of leaf-shape variability revealed no notable difference between diploid and triploid plants. The analysis of the triploid microspecies T. cristatum, T. danubium, T. parnassicum, T. princeps and T. proximum s.l. resulted in their differentiation into separate groups. For differentiation, the characters with a higher determination value were employed, especially the shape of a terminal leaf lobe, the position of outer bracts, the number of lateral lobes and their termination. Analyzing a very variable diploid species T. erythrospermum enabled the definition of four basic phenotypes based on leaf shape. The phenotypes differed in leaf size and shape in relation to environmental factors such as intensity of light, nutrients, moisture, or disturbance. In conclusion, to evaluate the taxonomic status of particular taxa within Taraxacum sect. Erythrosperma it is inevitable to understand the complex leaf-shape variability, being a result of both genetic variability and phenotypic plasticity.
23064549|New data on the taxonomy, karyology, reproductive biology and secondary metabolites of Hypericum dubium Leers (=H. maculatum subsp. obtusiusculum (Tourlet) Hayek) are given. The neotypification of the name H. dubium by plants from the locus classicus near the town of Herborn in Germany is presented. Hypericum dubium is characterized by stems with slightly conspicuous subsidiary lines, sepals with a finely denticulate or rarely entire apex, petals with pale and black, linear to striiform laminar glands. Karyological data confirm that the taxon is tetraploid (2n=32). Reproduction by facultative apomixis was discovered using a flow cytometric seed screen. In the spectrum of secondary metabolites, flavonoids, naphtodianthrones and phloroglucinol derivatives were found. The previously described taxon H. carpaticum Mrtonfi is reclassified here to the level of nothospecies as H. dubium  H. maculatum. For the epitheton balcanicum a new combination Hypericum carinthiacum nothosubsp. balcanicum (N. Robson) Mrtonfi is proposed. Finally, this paper provides a revised scheme of relationships among taxa of the H. maculatum group.
4201382| In this paper, the genus Pinguicula is revised in the Iberian Peninsula. The taxa studied are P. vulgaris, P. nevadensis, P. grandiflora subsp. grandiflora, P. dertosensis, P. vallisneriifolia, P. longifolia subsp. longifolia, P. mundi, P. alpina and P. lusitanica. Five taxa are endemic to the area studied (P. nevadensis, P. dertosensis, P. vallisneriifolia, P. longifolia subsp. longifolia and P. mundi). Two of them are confined to restricted areas: P. nevadensis is endemic to the Sierra Nevada (S Spain) and P. longifolia subsp. longifolia is endemic to the central Pyrenees (N Spain). Taxonomical, nomenclatural, morphological, chromosomal, biogeographical and ecological data are reported for each taxon. A new combination is proposed: Pinguicula Sect. Longifolia (Casper) G. Blanca, M. Ruz-Rejn et R. Zamora. 
23064984|Agri-environmental measures often require postponing of grassland defoliation until summer months. We investigated how this affects agronomic characteristics, i.e., biomass production and forage quality, in species-rich grasslands in the White Carpathian Mountains, Czech Republic. Three distinct grasslands (vegetation alliances Bromion erecti, Cynosurion cristati, Violion caninae) were selected for biomass sampling in three dates: mid-May, early June and end of June. Proportions of individual species from total biomass, biomass production, crude fibre concentration, organic matter digestibility and community functional properties (forage value, leaf dry matter content, specific leaf area) were determined. Dry matter standing biomass at the end of June was highest in Bromion with 3.5 t/ha, followed by Violion with 2.7 t/ha and Cynosurion with 2.3 t/ha. A steep decline in forage quality (increase in crude fibre and decrease in organic matter digestibility) during accumulation of aboveground biomass was recorded in formerly unmanaged Bromion grassland but remarkably not in formerly grazed Cynosurion and Violion grasslands where early spring dominants were partly replaced by later developing species, Agrostis capillaris and Trifolium spp. Abundance-weighted community functional properties were consistent with results obtained from biomass chemical analyses, thus the 'trait approach' can be used as a suitable surrogate of costly and labor-intensive laboratory procedures. Finally, we assume that the high degree of community seasonal development in Cynosurion and Violion, indicated here by a new community seasonal development index and by development in community specific leaf area, was accountable for the stabilization of forage quality later in the vegetation season.
23064487|We investigated species composition and relative abundance of Sphagnum fallax dominated peatlands in relation to measured environmental variables on the basis of 26 sites in the Wielkopolska region. Most studied plots were characterized by soft waters, poor in Ca but rich in nutrients, especially N-NH and P-PO, with high electrolytic conductivity and high DOC (dissolved organic carbon) concentration. Six of the 19 measured variables of surface water chemistry (DOC, pH, SO, P-PO, Na and Ca) significantly explained 23% of the variation in floristic composition. In 65 vegetation plots, 107 species were observed. Cluster analysis revealed four types of vegetation in the studied mires. Sphagnum fallax was the most abundant species and formed plant communities in a wide range of habitats: in floating mats, with the plants usually adjoining the mineral basin edge (e.g. E. vaginatum, Andromeda polifolia and Ledum palustre) as well as it occupied central parts of Sphagnum lawn (e.g. Eriophorum angustifolium) and rich fen habitats (e.g. Carex rostrata or Phragmites australis). In Wielkopolska terrestrializating peatlands, four variables determine the poor-rich gradient: conductivity, DOC, SiO dissolved, Ca and alkalinity. This study provides new data on the ecology and typology of Sphagnum peatlands in western Poland.
23065005|Protection of resting buds and timing of shoot development are crucial morphological traits of plants growing in a seasonal climate. For eight species of Iberian chamaephytes with contrasting morphology and ecology, we explored the different growth stages within the morphogenetic cycle of the shoot (including the initiation, morphogenesis and maturation of vegetative and reproductive structures), the seasonality of these growth stages and their relationship with the general climate of the species distribution area. We evaluated the implications of morphogenetic cycles on the phenology, architecture and distribution of each species, and tried to identify good descriptors of these cycles for their inclusion in databases of functional plant traits. The morphology, activity and growth of meristems and the expansion of shoots were assessed periodically by dissecting buds under stereomicroscope. Plant phenology was recorded monthly for a minimum of 13 months on 15 marked plants of six out of the eight study species. All species showed naked buds, with meristems protected by leaf primordia and surrounding young leaves. We identified five stages of growth that summarize the processes of organogenesis and expansion of primordia in study species. Depending on the temporal arrangement of these stages and the type of structures subtending renewal meristems, we identified two types of morphogenetic cycles in study species: naked buds formed on brachyblasts (short branches) that extend for a relatively long time by neoformation; and naked buds on little shoot primordia that remain concealed by part of subtending leaves and extend rapidly in spring (preformed growth) sometimes followed by a period of slow expansion by neoformation. These morphogenetic cycles seem to be related to the general climate where study species grow: species with brachyblasts grow preferentially in areas with dry summers and not very cold winters, while species with shoot primordia protected by leaf structures tend to grow in areas with cold winters and not very dry summers. Some traits like the type and size of buds, or the type of morphogenetic cycle are quite easy to measure and provide important ecological information. These traits are good candidates to be included in plant trait databases.
23064562|Diversity patterns cannot be properly interpreted without a theory providing criteria for their evaluation. We propose a concept to prevent artifictions caused by improper consideration of changes in observed patterns due to variation in taxon delimitation. Most biodiversity patterns concern assemblages of species of given higher taxon (e.g. class). Some patterns seem to be universal, e.g., body size distribution, species-abundance distribution, species-area relationship, or the relationship between diversity and energy availability. However, truly universal patterns should not change when we change taxonomic scope by focusing on subtaxa or when we merge several sister taxa together and analyze patterns in resulting higher taxon. Similarly, some patterns may not change when changing the basic unit of the study e.g., when replacing species by genera or families (or any monophyletic clades), although other patterns may not be invariant against the variation of the basic unit. In fact, there are only two possibilities: biodiversity patterns are either taxon-invariant or they vary systematically with taxonomic resolution, which would indicate some fundamental taxonomic level with interesting implications for biological processes behind those patterns. Here we develop the concept of taxon invariance of diversity patterns and apply it on the abovementioned patterns. We show that simple theoretical considerations markedly constrain the set of possible patterns, as some of them cannot be simultaneously valid for both a taxon and its subtaxa  frequency distributions of abundances cannot be simultaneously lognormal for a given taxon and all its subtaxa, the taxa-area relationship cannot follow a power-law for all levels of taxonomic resolution, and energy availability cannot affect diversity of all taxonomic units in the same way. Analyses of the variation in the form of biodiversity patterns with changing taxonomic resolution thus provide an extremely useful tool for revealing properties of respective patterns, their universality and logical consistency.
4201419| Models of coexistence often assume that competitive exclusion takes place at fine scale, but that disturbances (non-equilibrium models) or heterogeneity (spatial models) are necessary for long-term coexistence. As an alternative, very slow exclusion among competitively equivalent species has been proposed, but questioned on the ground that in the long run even the smallest difference in competitive ability will express itself in the loss of species. In this paper we demostrate long-term coexistence among closely-related mire plant species (notably Sphagnum mosses). In any bog in the boreal region, most species that can tolerate the nutrient-poor, acidic and partly anaerobic conditions are present. Thus, the ratio between the actual and regional species pool is 1 (or very close to 1), and selection of species from the regional pool seems hardly affected by interspecific competition or dispersal limitation. The evidence for coexistence comes from experiments and permanent plots (time scale 1-10 yrs), remapping (40-60 yrs) and stratigraphy (100-2000 yrs), and the spatial scale is cm-ha. At the cm-scale there were no cases of competitive exclusion, even when species were transplanted into each others microsites, and for 10  10-cm plots published stratigraphic data showed that combinations with 2-4 species lasted for 200-300 yrs on average, and in some cases almost 1000 yrs. Most temperate ecosystems will not remain without substantial changes in conditions for such a long time. Thus, exclusion among similar species can be so slow that it may well explain the coexistence for the whole "life-time" of a community. 
25134077|Long-distance dispersal events are irregular and their role in shaping plant diversity is often discussed and modeled but rarely studied experimentally. We mimicked long-distance dispersal experimentally by sowing eleven exotic and fourteen native species into a calcareous grassland community in Estonia. Exotic species were randomly chosen from the collection of 500 herbaceous species in the Botanical Garden of the Tartu University. All exotic species were able to complete their life-cycles under the climatic and edaphic conditions in the garden. Native species originated from open dry calcareous habitats in the surroundings of the study site, but did not occur in the experimental grassland. Seven exotic species and seven native species established during the first year. In the third year, there were still three exotic species with five premature individuals, and three sown native species with sixteen individuals in the plots. These results show that long-distance dispersal both within and between regions may have an impact on species composition in target plant communities. If relatively the best established exotic species Phyteuma scheuchzeri would be classified as casual, one may conclude that transition among introduction and casual stages corresponds to ten's rule. The species richness of seedlings, taking both local and sown species into account, was higher in plots with higher native established plant species richness.
25134150|A southern Spanish massif (Tejeda/Almijara range, Mlaga province, SE Spain) has been previously identified as a contact zone for genotypes of a rare taxon, Armeria villosa subsp. bernisii, and a frequent one, A. filicaulis, based on (1) the discovery of a species-independent geographically structured pattern of variation for nuclear ribosomal ITS sequence data, and (2) the sharing of chloroplast haplotypes, which reveal horizontal transfer between the species. This study uses RAPD data, as a total DNA marker, and morphometrics, as potentially revealing hybridization and introgression, to throw further light on the origin of the above mentioned contact zone. Individuals of the two taxa sampled from the range do not show a F1 hybrid profile for RAPD or for morphometrics. To integrate these results with the previously published sequence data (ITS and chloroplast spacer trnL-F) it is proposed that introgressive hybridization has occurred in A. villosa subsp. bernisii, whereas for A. filicaulis the contact zone occurs at the intraspecific level. With the available data, the contact between individuals of Armeria with different genotypes in the two taxa may have implied westward migration from a biodiverse massif like Sierra Nevada, and this may apply to other organisms although further data are needed to confirm it.
23064564|Quantifying species-richness patterns along geographical gradients (typically latitude and elevation) has a long history in ecology and can be based on more-or-less complete censuses from a specified area (plot sampling), selective collection within a specified area (e.g. museum collections), or general information about species distributions (e.g. observations of extremes along the gradient, distribution maps). All these approaches require complete sampling to give the true richness in an area, but the richness pattern (i.e., the relative changes in richness along the gradient) may be estimated without complete sampling, although equal sampling between areas is necessary. This is relatively easy to do for fine-scale plot sampling, but rarely easy for other types of data. For data extracted from museum collections, a correct perception of the species richness pattern therefore depends on post-sampling treatment of data. Two commonly applied techniques for quantifying species richness patterns with these types of data are discussed, namely interpolation of species ranges and rarefaction. Such treatment may correct for unequal sampling in some instances, but may in other cases introduce artificial patterns. With incomplete sampling interpolation introduces an artificial humped pattern and rarefaction requires similar species abundance distributions to make unbiased comparisons among samples. One must therefore be cautious when applying these methods for estimating species richness patterns along geographical gradients.
25134114|Two processes are thought to generate positive relationships between species richness and island area. The area per se hypothesis states that larger islands maintain larger populations, which are less susceptible to extinction. The habitat hypothesis states that larger islands contain more habitats, and therefore a greater number of habitat specialists. However, the importance of each mechanism is debated. I tested the area per se and habitat hypotheses by comparing relationships between plant abundance, age and island area in five shrub species on islands off the coast of British Columbia, Canada. Results showed that two shrub species increased in both abundance and age with island area. The remaining three species showed no differences in abundance and age with island area. Conifer abundances increased with island area, which generated differences in habitat availability. Smaller islands were dominated by open habitat, while larger islands contained both open and forested habitats. Changes in habitat availability with island area could explain patterns in plant abundance and age. The two species that increased in abundance with island area were commonly found in conifer forest on the mainland, and their distributions were consistent with the distribution forest habitat. Positive relationships between plant age and island area in these two species may result from lower survivorship in the open habitat, which dominated small islands. The three species that showed no relationship between abundance and island area are commonly found in open habitat on the mainland, and their island distributions paralleled the availability of open habitat on islands. Similar plant ages on different sized islands may result from their occurrence in open habitat on both large and small islands. Overall results support the habitat hypothesis and indicate that species distributions result from the interaction between habitat affinities and changes in habitat availability with island area.
23264768|The changes in agricultural practices during the last century have led to a drastic decrease in the number of traditionally managed hay meadows. Also, traditional management practices are often applied more cursorily in the remaining meadows. In combination with an increase in aerial anthropogenic nitrogen deposition, this has led to a loss of biodiversity. To investigate whether the current management is sufficient for maintaining viable populations of a typical meadow plant, Succisa pratensis, we experimentally reinforced the raking and mowing parts of the traditional management over four years in a two-by-two factorial experiment in three traditionally managed wooded hay meadows on the Baltic island of Gotland, Sweden. We found decreased litter and hay production in two of the three studied meadows as a result of our treatments. Plant sizes and asymptotic population growth rates () of S. pratensis increased, particularly in plots receiving the combined raking and mowing treatment. Stochastic long-term population growth rates ( s ) increased under the reinforced management: projected population sizes 50 years into the future showed a three-fold increase in raked plots and a 17-fold increase in plots that were both raked and mown. Because we found positive responses even in these seemingly well-managed meadows we conclude that it is essential that management is carried out more thoroughly to ensure viable population sizes. Our conclusion applies to most semi-natural grasslands receiving anthropogenic nitrogen, or where traditional management practices are less rigorously applied. We also suggest using biomass estimation instead of vegetation height as a measure of management strength.
25133811|Natural lakes are a rare phenomena within extraglacial areas of Central Europe. Almost all have been completely terrestrialized during the Holocene. This paper deals with one such former lake, located in southern Bohemia. Its extensive lacustrine and peat deposits were subjected to a multidisciplinary study that resulted in high-resolution pollen, macrofossil, algal and sediment-chemistry data interpreted in terms of past climate, geomorphology, soil, and regional vegetation development over the last 16,000 years. Against the background of these large-scale processes, local development took place, comprising the lake's ontogeny from an arctic-type ecosystem hosting pioneer aquatic communities, through a highly diversified mosaic of eutrophic hydrosere habitats (shallow pools, Phragmites and Carex fen, alder carr), towards an oligotrophic mire that started to dome over the terrestrialized lake. At every individual development stage, specific processes characterized ecosystem function and composition: during the Late-Glacial with its rapid climatic changes, external forces induced the major stresses; while during the Holocene, autogenic changes of the wetland ecosystem played the most important role.
4201280|Morphological variation of Potentilla norvegica L., P. heidenreichii Zimmeter and P. supina L. usually treated within the section Rivales Wolf, P. recta L. (sect. Rectae Wolf), P. canescens Bess., P. argentea L. s.l., P. collina Wibel (sect. Argenteae Wolf) and P. goldbachii Rupr. (sect. Chrysanthae Wolf) was studied using multivariate statistical methods. According to k-means clustering, P. canescens stands closer to P. heidenreichii of the sect. Rivales than to P. argentea. P. collina, the other representative of sect. Argenteae, is not connected with P. canescens at all. Therefore, P. canescens should belong to sect. Rivales and not to sect. Argenteae. In Potentilla argentea s.l., P. impolita Wahlenb., P. argentea L. var. argentea, var. decumbens (Jord.) Lehm., var. demissa (Jord.) Lehm., var. grandiceps (Zimmeter) Rouy et E.G. Camus and var. tenerrima (Velen.) Wolf were identified. P. impolita specimens did not cluster out into a separate cluster as did P. collina, P. canescens and P. heidenreichii, but formed mixed clusters with different varieties of P. argentea s.str. Therefore, P. impolita is not worthy of the rank of species and evidently not even that of subspecies, and should be treated as a variety - P. argentea var. incanescens (Opiz) Focke.
23064987|Studies over the last two decades demonstrate that hybridization has played an integral role in the evolution of several sections of the genus Centaurea. Nevertheless, natural hybridization between narrow Mediterranean endemic Centaurea species has not been documented as yet. A population of fertile Centaurea individuals exhibiting intermediate morphological traits between two Sardinian narrow endemics, C. horrida and C. filiformis, was identified at the Tavolara Islet (Sardinia, Italy). Intermediate leaf length and head width characterized this population, suggesting its hybrid origin. The putative hybrid population was structured (i.e., composed of seedlings, saplings and adult individuals) and had a relatively high levels of seed production. The number of chromosomes was identical to that of the proposed progenitors (2n=18). Genotyping at five microsatellite loci showed that the putative hybrid possessed several alleles in common with the proposed parental species and intermediate values of genetic differentiation, as indicated by both F ST and R ST , between C. horrida and C. filiformis. We therefore conclude that the studied intermediate population is of hybrid origin, and discuss possible mechanisms of its reproductive isolation from the parental species, potential re-introgression, and evolutionary implications of this hybridization.
4201360| The relationships between 10 types of potential natural vegetation and several environmental factors derived from a topographical map (altitude, slope inclination, curvature, potential direct solar irradiation, sky view factor), a geological map and a spring phenological map, were modeled for the Podyj National Park (Czech Republic). Different vegetation pattern models were made using spatial predictive modeling together with the Bayes formula. Compared with the field-based vegetation map, the model which included geology as a factor and all the factors derived from the topographic map, yielded an overall correspondence (i.e. percentage of grid cells in which vegetation types in the field-based map and in the model matched) of 56.8%. This measure of correspondence, however, is not dependable in areas, such as the Podyj National Park, where one vegetation type prevails. Therefore, correspondence within vegetation types, i.e. the average of correspondences calculated for each vegetation type separately, was used, thus yielding a value of 39.4%. The most important factors in this model were the sky view factor, representing the differences between the valleys and the gently undulating uplands, and altitude, as a surrogate for the macroclimatic gradient. By replacing altitude and irradiation variables related to the macroclimate and mesoclimate respectively, with the spring phenological map, overall correspondence with the original map was increased to 62.6% and correspondence within vegetation types to 50.5%. This result shows that phenological maps, which are relatively easy to create and provide a surrogate for unavailable local climatic maps, might be a powerful tool for predicting vegetation pattern on landscape scale. 
23064557|One of the most frequently studied pattern in ecology is the Species Abundance Distribution (SAD) that represents the frequency distribution of species abundances in an assemblage. Two main approaches to displaying such information have been employed: histograms constructed using exponentially increasing bin widths as pioneered by Preston (1948), and plots of ranked species abundances. While both techniques have been extensively used in the investigation of community ecology hypotheses, the Preston-style species-abundance histogram has become central to current debates concerning appropriate characterization of the SAD and the processes generating it. Here we point out an important issue in the Preston approach that has profound implications to this debate: by employing bins of exponentially increasing size, the resultant histogram may display a hump-shaped pattern that is not congruent with the shape of the untransformed distribution. Moreover, any distribution constructed from log-transformed abundances will necessarily reveal at least one internal mode, even when the non-transformed probability density function is strictly decreasing. We warn against misinterpretation of such transformed datasets, and suggest that rank-abundance plots, which are equivalent to the cumulative distribution functions extensively used in other branches of science, represent a more informative approach as they allow for better discrimination between a number of probability distributions. Ecologists should be aware that logarithmic transformation often generates a log-normal-like shape, and are encouraged to use rank abundance curves to visualize and analyze species-abundance patterns.
23064587|This study provides a checklist of the Papilionoideae (Leguminosae) present in Equatorial Guinea, comprising 55 genera and 157 taxa. Twenty-six species are known from Annobn, 91 from Bioko and 110 from Ro Muni. The best represented genus is Millettia with 14 species. Bibliographic references for Papilionoideae (Leguminosae) from Equatorial Guinea have been gathered and checked. Seventeen species are included, because published data on their distribution range suggests they may occur in Equatorial Guinea; 15 species are introduced and likely already naturalized; and 48 taxa are recorded for the first time from the country. This represents an increase of over 30% in the floristic knowledge of Papilionoideae from Equatorial Guinea. Three species only known from their types may be considered as endemic to Equatorial Guinea: Amphimas tessmannii, Leptoderris oxytropis and Millettia mildbraedii.
25134075|It has been hypothesized that the relative role of species dispersal in determining plant community composition and species richness changes along primary productivity and disturbance intensity gradients. Manipulative experiments with either diaspore addition or prevention are needed to validate this hypothesis. Due to methodological constraints, diaspore prevention experiments are rarely used. In the case of diaspore addition experiments, there are some potential sources of error. (1) Experiments may be confounded since patchiness of microbial communities is not considered and techniques equalizing microbial communities over study plots are not used. (2) The length of the period of observation may not be sufficient to understand whether the establishment of sown individuals was really successful. (3) The effect of the sowing treatment and the theoretical context of the whole experiment depends on the number and identity of species sown. When addressing the role of long-distance dispersal, it is almost impossible to say what the appropriate number and composition of species to be used for the experiment should be. (4) Until now, most of the attention has been on dispersal in space, while the role of "dispersal in time" (seed bank) has rarely been addressed. We conclude that stepwise accumulation of experimental studies, addressing the role of dispersal in shaping plant communities, will sooner or later reveal general patterns, given the experiments are well planned and aim to avoid the sources of errors described above.
4201308|The argument is made that species should be comparable with respect to the numbers of genotypes they include, regardless of whether their reproduction is exclusively sexual or not. Specifically, this means recognizing species at a level comparable to that of the section or series, as these are used in genera like Crataegus L. or Taraxacum Weber ex F.H. Wigg. Anticipated advantages of this approach for the taxonomy of agamic complexes include the following: (1) a common basis for communication between taxonomists and population biologists, hence (2) the opportunity to find possible explanations for patterns of variation in theoretical models of population behavior. In addition, (3) revising the hierarchical level at which species are recognized will make it easier to avoid describing species that are paraphyletic, i.e. that include some but not all related genotypes sharing a common ancestor. As an example, revising the hierarchical level at which species are recognized makes it possible to see many agamic complexes as being made up of metapopulations of genotypes that arise and go extinct as habitats become available and then disappear for whatever reason (succession, disturbance, etc.) and at whatever scale (local, regional, continental).
41245507|Due to the long tradition of the Braun-Blanquet approach, many relevs using this approach have been made. Recent developments in vegetation-plot databases provide an opportunity to effectively use these relevs to study ecological problems as well. Opinions differ, however, concerning the applicability of these datasets, often with their use being restricted to exploration and hypothesis generation only. We assert that preferential sampling, which is characteristic of the Braun-Blanquet approach, means using a special definition of statistical population rather than non-random sampling. We present a case study, where consequences of using a preferential and non-preferential definition of statistical population are studied. Although the traits of stands that are preferred or avoided by the phytosociologist during preferential sampling can be identified, there are no general rules that could predict the difference between the preferential and non-preferential datasets obtained for the same object.
23264899|Little is known about consequences of the increasing global temperatures on seed germination and even less about the seed germination response of species with different geographical distribution ranges. In the present work, the effect of incubation temperature on seed germination of 31 species from the Iberian Peninsula is analyzed in relation to their geographical distribution range. We tested whether plants with different geographical distribution ranges (Iberian Peninsula endemics, Mediterranean, widely distributed species), respond similarly to incubation temperature using cross-species analysis as well as taking into account phylogenetic relationships among species. Seeds were incubated at 10C, 15C, 20C and 25C for 6 weeks in darkness. Distribution range appeared as a determinant of germination response to the temperature treatment independent of phylogeny. Widely distributed species were less sensitive than endemic or Mediterranean species to incubation temperatures, which may represent an advantage to colonize new areas or to tolerate changes in the environment. Although their ability to avoid germination during the warm and dry season might be favorable for endemic species in some situations, our results also suggest that under a future of temperature increase imposed by climate change, endemic plant species may be more vulnerable than widely distributed species.
25134168|We studied the relative importance of local habitat conditions and landscape structure for species richness of vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens in dry grasslands on the Baltic island of land (Sweden). In addition, we tested whether relationships between species richness and vegetation cover indicate that competition within and between the studied taxonomic groups is important. We recorded species numbers of vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens in 4 m plots (n = 452), distributed over dry grassland patches differing in size and degree of isolation. Structural and environmental data were collected for each plot. We tested effects of local environmental conditions, landscape structure and vegetation cover on species richness using generalized linear mixed models. Different environmental variables explained species richness of vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens. Environmental effects, particularly soil pH, were more important than landscape structure. Interaction effects of soil pH with other environmental variables were significant in vascular plants. Plot heterogeneity enhanced species richness. Size and degree of isolation of dry grassland patches significantly affected bryophyte and lichen species richness, but not that of vascular plants. We observed negative relationships between bryophyte and lichen species richness and the cover of vascular plants. To conclude, effects of single environmental variables on species richness depend both on the taxonomic group and on the combination of environmental factors on a whole. Dispersal limitation in bryophytes and lichens confined to dry grasslands may be more common than is often assumed. Our study further suggests that competition between vascular plants and cryptogams is rather asymmetric.
41245486|To examine the hybrid origin of the diploid grass Calamagrostis longiseta var. longe-aristata, we performed morphometric and genetic analyses of this taxon and its putative parental taxa. The morphometric analyses revealed that, in general, C. longiseta var. longe-aristata is morphologically intermediate between C longiseta var. longiseta and C. fauriei. Previous studies have reported that some hybrids exhibit transgressive characters but others do not; the latter is the case for C. longiseta var. longe-aristata. Their absence may be due to the ecological adaptation to environments intermediate between those inhabited by the putative parental taxa, and therefore the transgressive characters have not been selected. Nevertheless, there is no direct evidence for adaptive value of the characters examined in this study and only a small part of all characters potentially responsible for adaptation was investigated. An alternative hypothesis about the absence of transgressive characters in C. longiseta var. longe-aristata is that it is at an early stage of hybrid speciation. Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analyses showed that individuals of C. longiseta var. longe-aristata were placed in both of the clusters formed by each putative parental taxon. Greater genetic diversity was observed in C. longiseta var. longe-aristata than in its putative parental taxa. All here reported findings support the scenario that C. longiseta var. longe-aristata is of hybrid origin, having evolved from C. longiseta var. longiseta and C. fauriei.
25133792| The present paper reviews mechanisms producing complicated patterns of variation within Hieracium subgen. Pilosella. The taxonomic complexity of this subgenus is due to highly variable basic species and intermediate (hybridogenous) species. The most important sources of variation are polyploidy, hybridization and (mostly) facultative apomixis of the aposporous type. The combination of hybridization, apomixis and clonal growth leads to the maintenance of various hybrids having originated from backcrossing and hybridization among more than two species, which is possible because of the fertile pollen of apomictic hybrids. Ever since Mendel's experiments, some of F hybrids have been found to be highly variable, probably reflecting the high heterozygosity of some of the basic species. Variable progeny can also result from unreduced gametes, or the rare parthenogenetic development of reduced gametes. While these processes were detected in experiments, their role within field populations remains unknown. However, multiple origins of intermediate species, and introgression within basic species are highly likely to result in high levels of variation. While few population level studies have been undertaken in Europe, several such studies have been carried out on adventive populations in New Zealand, and these show a different pattern. Aneuploid plants, rare in Europe, are common in New Zealand, and there is frequently more than one ploidy level within a population. 
4201422|Among plants colonizing mine spoil banks in Northern Bohemia the first colonizers, mainly ruderal annuals from Chenopodiaceae and Brassicaceae were found not to be associated with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF). These species cultivated in pots with soil from four sites in different succession stages of the spoil bank did not respond to the presence of native or non-native AMF. All grass species studied (Elytrigia repens, Calamagrostis epigejos and Arrhenatherum elatius) were found moderately colonized in the field and they seemed to be facultative mycotrophs, because their response to mycorrhiza in the experiment was negligible. Carduus acanthoides was found to be highly colonized in the field, however, it did not show growth response to AMF in the pot experiment. The AMF native in four sites on the spoil banks showed high infectivity but low effectiveness in association with colonizing plants compared to the non-native isolate G. fistulosum BEG23. In general, dependence on AMF in the cultivation experiment was rather low, regardless of the fact that plants were found to be associated with AMF either in the field or in pots. Occurrence and effectiveness of mycorrhizal associations might relate primarily to the mycotrophic status of each plant species rather than to the age of the spoil bank sites studied.
41245508|LJER (2007) notes that, to investigate phytosociological and ecological relationships, many authors apply traditional inferential tests to sets of relevs obtained by non-random methods. Unfortunately, this procedure does not provide reliable support for hypothesis testing because non-random sampling violates the assumptions of independence required by many parametric inferential tests. Instead, a random sampling scheme is recommended. Nonetheless, random sampling will not eliminate spatial autocorrelation. For instance, a classical law of geography holds that everything in a piece of (biotic) space is interrelated, but near objects are more related than distant ones. Because most ecological processes that shape community structure and species coexistence are spatially explicit, spatial autocorrelation is a vital part of almost all ecological data. This means that, independently from the underlying sampling design, ecological data are generally spatially autocorrelated, violating the assumption of independence that is generally required by traditional inferential tests. To overcome this drawback, randomization tests may be used. Such tests evaluate statistical significance based on empirical distributions generated from the sample and do not necessarily require data independence. However, as concerns hypothesis testing, randomization tests are not the universal remedy for ecologists, because the choice of inadequate null models can have significant effects on the ecological hypotheses tested. In this paper, I emphasize the need of developing null models for which the statistical assumptions match the underlying biological mechanisms.
4201378| New potential sites for the critically-endangered, aquatic carnivorous plant Aldrovanda vesiculosa L. (Droseraceae) were selected in North and South Bohemia (Czech Republic) and both its seasonal growth dynamics and overwintering rate were investigated. Groups of either 5 or 10 plants were planted in 1  1 m nylon enclosures in selected shallow, dystrophic waters at the end of May. Plant growth characteristics and water chemistry were investigated at 2 to 5 week intervals over the 1994 growing season inside ten enclosures placed at six sites. Within seven enclosures at three sites, the seasonal growth was very fast and 38-141 turions developed from the initial five plants. Water at these sites was mesotrophic with a high concentration of CO
25134167|Vegetation-environment relationships were investigated in fens of the Tebo basin (Czech Republic), which are enriched by nutrients and calcium from intensively managed and limed fishponds to test the hypothesis of altered gradient structure after long-term nutrient enrichment in fens. Water-table depth, pH, conductivity, N-NH, N-NO, PO, total P, SO, K, Ca and Fe were measured four times in 30 vegetation plots of 16 m during the 2004 vegetation season. Both constrained and unconstrained ordination (DCA, CCA) were used to relate environmental factors to the species composition of the vegetation. The relationships among particular factors were revealed using PCA. Four fen vegetation types obtained by TWINSPAN classification were compared with measured factors using repeated measures ANOVA. Vegetation types differed significantly in water-table depth, water pH and Ca, Mg, K, and N-NO content. The concentration of major nutrients fluctuated noticeably during vegetation season and displayed large variation within vegetation types. Temporarily the concentration of different nutrients reached extremely high values. However, high nutrient supply has not altered the gradient structure of the vegetation. Water pH and water-table depths were found to be two major determinants of species variation in fishpond-margin fens, as in the majority of other environments studied throughout the Northern Hemisphere. Species richness of both vascular plants and bryophytes was partly explained by pH. However, the extent of variation in total mineral richness and potassium concentration were the next two most important variables determining bryophyte species richness. Water in flooded poor-fen vegetation, directly affected by water from limed fishponds, had calcium and magnesium concentration similar to fishpond water. The calcium concentrations of about <tex-math>$20\ {\rm mg}\ {\rm l}^{-1}$</tex-math> in typical poor-fen vegetation have no analogy in the ecological literature. High phosphorus level presumably buffers the effect of calcium by enhancing bryophyte biomass depositing superfluous calcium. In conclusion, extremely high long-term nutrient supply to fishpond-margin fens have not altered gradient structure, but shifted chemical limits of plant communities.
4201404| Gentianella germanica (Willd.) Brner, a rare plant species, occurs at the margin of its distribution area in the Netherlands. It is found only in isolated patches of chalk grassland surrounded by intensively-used agricultural land. In 1997 and 1998, we investigated the spatial and temporal separation of anthers and stigma in relation to autofertility. We performed our experiments in one large and two small populations to investigate the possible selection against herkogamy and for increased autofertility in marginal populations with pollination limitation. Dichogamy appeared to be very weak and varied within individuals. Homogamous and protandrous flowers were most frequent. Dichogamy is apparently no effective barrier against self-fertilization in this species. Herkogamy varied significantly between individuals and between populations, and plant and flower size were not correlated with anther-stigma separation. Both observations suggest a genetic basis for herkogamy. Autofertility was generally high in all three populations. Only in one small population was a correlation between autofertility and herkogamy found. In this population, most plants had the stigma positioned above the anthers (mean herkogamy +0.8 mm), while in the other two populations the stigma was positioned mainly in between or below the anthers (mean herkogamy -0.55 mm). In comparison with earlier data from 1991 and 1992, plants in the large population were less herkogamous and more self-fertile in 1998. Since 1993 this population was mown each year one month earlier than usual, leading to dramatic reductions (bottlenecks) in population size. In addition, the early mowing time may have caused a further reduction of the already scarce visitation by pollinating insects. We hypothesize that both adverse conditions may have caused a selection of plants with smaller anther-stigma separation and higher autofertility and thus showing that human influence can have profound effects on the reproductive success and evolution of rare plant species, even if it occurs in the context of nature conservation. 
23064972|Actual ecological research postulates for alder carrs a cyclic alternation of Alnus tree vegetation with open fen or Salix dominated vegetation. Such cycles are also indicated in palaeo-ecological studies, but normally the temporal resolution of these studies is insufficient to resolve the duration of short-term cycles in vegetation development. This paper presents a high resolution palaeoecological study (including pollen, macrofossils and non-pollen palynomorphs) of a Late Holocene wood peat section from the small, long-term Alnus dominated peatland 'Heger Soll' in the 'Rodder Forst' in Western Pomerania (NE Germany) to reconstruct short-term vegetation changes. During a time-span of ca. 800 years, sedge-dominated fen vegetation types alternated with two phases of Alnus carr and one phase of Salix shrubland. The alder carr decline coincided with the beginning of intensified human activity in the surroundings of the mire and was probably connected to increased water discharge resulting from largescale deforestation, after which willow scrub and sedge fen became established. Growth of Alnus trees was associated with prolonged phases of reduced human impact and probably less water supply. This study shows that human impact on the uplands surrounding the mire and on the alder carr itself may explain the observed "cyclic" vegetation development of alder carrs, willow scrubs and sedge fens in Central Europe.
23264769|Campanula sabatia is endemic to NW Italy (Liguria) and it was included in the European Red list of endangered species due to the heavy human pressure on its habitat. AFLP markers were used to detect the genetic diversity within and among ten populations (totalling 83 individuals) representing the range of the species. In spite of the limited distribution of this endemic taxon, high levels in percentage of polymorphic bands (PPB), gene diversity (H S and H T ) and Shannon's information index (1) were detected both at population (PPB=60 %, H S =0.1853, I=0.2836) and at species level (PPB=100 %, H T =0.2415, I=0.3871). The coefficient of genetic differentiation among population (G' ST ) was 0.1935, while the level of gene flow (N' m ) was estimated to be 2.0832. AMOVA analysis identified a genetic variation within populations of 83 % of the total. Bayesian clustering methods assigned individuals to two geographical groups partly found within the same population, probably due to a high rate of genetic exchange among its populations. Conservation measures are suggested on the basis of the genetic diversity detected to ensure an effective protection for this endemic species.
24571983|Campo rupestre is a kind of Brazilian rocky outcrop with high biodiversity and many endemic and threatened species. It occurs mainly in the Espinhao Range in a contact region between Cerrado and/or Caatinga and Atlantic Forest. The Espinhao Range is recognized as a region with the highest floristic diversity in South America and with many endemic species, most of which are associated with rocky outcrop environments. These, among other peculiarities, recently granted the Espinhao Range the status of Biosphere Reserve. The relationship between soil and vegetation was studied in campo rupestre areas with quartzite and itabirite rocks. Three habitats in both lithologies were defined by geomorphology as: 1. Slopes with grasslands; 2. Plateaus with grasslands and 3. Valleys with woody savannas. In each lithology, 30 plots (10  10 m), 10 in each habitat, were defined. The species and their respective coverage were recorded and soil was sampled to perform chemical and physical analyses. The analyzed soils were similar in being sandy, acidic and with low fertility. Nevertheless, they exhibited differences in chemical and physical properties. Altogether there were 272 species, belonging to 70 families. The canonical correspondence analysis of soil variables and species coverage showed a clear segregation of lithological sites due mainly to the exchangeable content of Ca, Cu, Mg, Mn and S; soil particle size  central tendency and sorting; and the percentage of silt, fine soil and bare rocks. A strong correlation between plant species coverage and soil properties was also found.
23065013|The frequency of clonal plants in different vegetation types is known to be influenced by environmental and land-use factors. However, the underlying behavior of individual clonal traits or clonal trait diversity has received little attention. Here, we assess for species- and trait-diverse grasslands of the Swiss Alps the relative importance of temperature, soil moisture, land use and species richness on the diversity and frequency of individual compared with all clonal traits. We further analyzed how cover-weighted data alters the relationships found with commonly used presence-absence data. We combined species compositional, land-use and environmental data from 236 28-m grassland plots with clonal trait information for 527 species following the Clonal Growth Organ (CGO) classification. Test results are based on linear models, ANOVAs and ANCOVAs. The grassland sites were 84% dominated by clonal species. Drought-prone grasslands harbored the least clonal species. No increase in clonality was detected with decreasing temperature (= altitude). Mown or pastured grasslands had more clonal species than fallows. Certain sets of traits were correlated. Rhizomatous species especially reacted strongly to climatic and landuse gradients and had highest frequencies in cold, moist and disturbed sites. Clonal diversity was strongly dependent on species richness. Cover-weighted and presenceabsence based estimates were largely similar. Overall, our data outlined that common clonal traits react differently to natural and land-use gradients as well as differently to the sum of clonal traits. Also, soil moisture was more decisive than temperature (= altitude) for the presence of clonal species. Lastly, the strong correlation between species-richness and clonal trait diversity needs to be accounted for when interpreting the functional role of clonal traits.
25134101|The Melampyrum sylvaticum group is a heterogeneous group at the inter- and infra-specific level. A wide range of morphological characters was examined on specimens collected for this study. The corolla size, the corolla colour and the anther length are considered the most important morphological characters at the interspecific taxonomic level. The morphological and molecular variation of the Melampyrum sylvaticum group in the Sudeten, Alps and Carpathians was analyzed. The morphometric study of European populations of Melampyrum sylvaticum group partly clarified the pattern of the variation of selected characters in this region. The RAPD analysis manifests a very similar trend of the population grouping. The combined analysis of morphological and molecular data gives the most explicit results. Central European yellow flowering populations of M. sylvaticum group form two distinctive groups. The first one is an exclusive type of the Alps and of the Hercynian Mountains (except the Sudeten). The second group has its centre of distribution in the eastern part of the Carpathians. This type was described as Melampyrum herbichii from the present Ukrainian Carpathians and was regarded to be endemic to the Eastern and Southern Carpathians. Populations from the Western Carpathians and Sudeten Mts. are polymorphic. They seem to be closer to M. herbichii based on the RAPD markers, whereas the morphology of most populations from these regions is closer to M. sylvaticum s.str. The bract shape seems to be important for discrimination between both groups of populations along with the flower characters and a modest ecological differentiation. The Eastern Carpathian Melampyrum saxosum with white corolla is very close to M. herbichii based on the studied morphological characters.
25133914|A major gap in our knowledge of plant communities is how much of their volume is occupied by plant material (stem, leaf or reproductive structure). This is basic knowledge and may be crucial for the concept of competition for space. We sampled two grassland communities and two shrublands in both Italy and New Zealand. The height of the canopy was measured by a point quadrat method, and the volume of plant material, after cutting, by displacement of water. From 0.5% to 2.9% of the canopy was occupied by plant material. Occupancy was lower in the Italian communities, which we tentatively attribute to the climate. It did not differ significantly between grasslands and shrublands. Our data suggest that physical space is probably never limiting by itself in terrestrial higher-plant communities, so that competition for space, distinct from competition for resources such as light, water and nutrients, is not likely to exist.
25134034| Ploidy levels in Empetrum (crowberry) from the Czech Republic and from one adjacent locality in Poland were estimated by flow cytometry to examine cytotype distribution patterns at large (within the country), medium (within mountain ranges) and small (within particular localities) spatial scales. Diploid, triploid, and tetraploid individuals were found. Triploids are reported from Central Europe for the first time; they occurred in the Krkonoe Mts. Exclusively diploid plants were observed in three mountain ranges (the Krun hory Mts., Labsk pskovce Mts., Adrpasko-Teplick skly Mts.), exclusively tetraploids were observed in the Jesenky Mts., and both cytotypes were observed in the umava Mts., Jizersk hory Mts. and Krkonoe Mts. Except for the latter mountain range, diploids and tetraploids were always found in different habitats. Spatial isolation is supposed to be the main barrier preventing cytotype mating. A mosaic-like sympatric occurrence of different cytotypes was demonstrated in the Krkonoe Mts., where peat bogs and rocky places were not spatially separated. Eight of 11 localities studied there were inhabited by diploids and tetraploids (five localities), diploids and triploids (one locality) or all three ploidy levels (two localities). Diploid and triploid plants occasionally intermingled at 0.3  0.3 m. Flower sex in crowberries was strongly associated with ploidy level: diploids usually had unisexual flowers, the tetraploids bore exclusively bisexual flowers. However, a few diploid plants with hermaphrodite flowers occurred in one population in the Krkonoe Mts. 
25133977|The combined effect of the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus Glomus intraradices and the bacterium Burkholderia cepacia on Pythium ultimum was studied in a growth system with root-free soil compartments allowing examination of microbial interactions without direct interference from roots. Signature fatty acids were used to quantify individual microbial populations. Biomass and amount of energy reserves were estimated using specific phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA) and neutral lipid fatty acids (NLFA), respectively. Population density of P. ultimum was estimated by colony forming units on selective media. Both biocontrol agents (BCAs) reduced population density of P. ultimum. Biomass of B. cepacia measured using signature fatty acids was inhibited by the presence of mycelium of G. intraradices, which might explain why no additive effect on P. ultimum was found when combining the two BCAs. In conclusion, combining G. intraradices and B. cepacia did not enhance the biocontrol efficacy against P. ultimum.
25133995| Studies on the karyotypes and chromosome numbers of species of Epipactis from the central-western Iberian Peninsula show that the species harbour enormous chromosome variability, have very asymmetric karyotypes and possess extraordinary diversity of aneuploidy. This paper provides the first report of a chromosome number for E. fageticola (2n=36, 40 + 0-2 B), as well as the first counts for Portuguese populations of E. helleborine (2n=18, 32, 38) and first counts for Iberian populations of E. tremolsii (n=20, 30, 2n=16, 24, 32, 34, 36, 38 + 1B, 40 + 1B, 52, 60). Among populations of E. tremolsii there is a significant differentiation in ecology and somatic chromosome number, suggesting that there may be two different taxa in the region studied. Chromosomes are large to small, ranging in length from 10.8 m to 1.8 m. Karyotype asymmetry is of type 3C in E. fageticola and E. tremolsii and 2C in E. helleborine and E. tremolsii. 
41245512|Sampling design has long been a key methodology issue of vegetation science. There are still unsolved problems, amongst which the influence of the positioning (spatial arrangement) of plots remains a basic one. Random sampling is considered the only statistically valid option, along with its amendment by stratifying. However, huge amounts of plot-sample data originated from using subjective plot positioning, involving a great deal of the author's judgement, experience and bias. Field studies examining the role of subjectivity within a larger area (a landscape) are lacking. In the presented case-study, datasets sampled using computer-based geographically stratified random (R) and field-based subjective (S) designs are compared. In 1999-2000,120 R and 244 S plots were spread across some 270 km. Their properties are compared regarding the differences in vegetation variability by ordination, and diversity by rarefaction. Although the differences are not conspicuous, both datasets partly contain different vegetation types and the S dataset contains at least some species-richer plots. The number of R plots had been clearly underrated while the expected species diversity values were nearly reached by the S. More R than S plots would probably be needed to reach the expected diversity maximum.
24571980|Understanding the factors responsible for species rarity is crucial for effective species conservation. One possible approach to obtaining information about causes of species rarity is to compare rare and common species. We analyzed the biological and ecological traits of critically endangered (CR) plant species of the Czech Republic. We compared the vegetative, generative and ecological traits of CR species with: i) common closely related species (a form of phylogenetic correction), ii) common closely related species sharing the same habitat (i.e., excluding pairs not sharing the same habitat, because many differences in species traits can be caused by adaptation to a specific habitat type) and iii) all plants of the Czech Republic. Information about species traits was mainly obtained from literature and databases. Comparison with common closely related species showed that CR species are smaller, flower for shorter periods, and have higher proportions of self-compatibility and higher terminal velocities. CR species also differ in their mode of dispersion, and their ecology and distribution. Comparison with species from the same habitat gave similar results. Comparison with the whole flora produced slightly different results, with additional differences in pollination mode and seed mass. The results of all three types of comparison suggest that critically endangered species of the Czech Republic are small, competitively inferior species, with some differences in the generative part of their life cycle, and occur mainly in open, unproductive habitats.
25134050| Sectional taxonomy of Taraxacum in steppe or subsaline habitats in Central Asia is revised based on material collected during expeditions, cultivated or studied in herbarium. Two new sections are described from that area: T. sect. Stenoloba similar to T. sect. Leucantha (syn.: T. sect. Sinensia), and T. sect. Suavia allied to T. sect. Dissecta. The type species of the section Suavia is described as Taraxacum formosissimum Kirschner et tpnek. Widespread mountain dandelions of the Caucasus, intermediate between the sect. Piesis and T. stevenii, are described as T. sect. Confusa. Taraxacum species dominating dry habitats in S Ukraine and Crimea are described as T. sect. Borysthenica. Species belonging to the new sections were found to be polyploid and agamospermous. 
23064486|The aboveground wood biomass (AWB) of tropical forests plays an important role in the global carbon cycle, and local AWB estimates provide essential data that enable the extrapolation of biomass stocks to ecosystem or biome-wide carbon cycle modelling. Few AWB estimates exist in Neotropical freshwater floodplains, where tree species distribution and forest structure depend on the height and duration of periodic inundations. We investigated tree species composition, forest structure, wood specific gravity, and AWB of trees 10 cm dbh in 16 plots totalling an area of 1 ha in a seasonally inundated riparian forest of the lower Miranda River, southern Pantanal, Brazil. The 443 tree individuals belonged to 46 species. Four species (Inga vera, Ocotea suaveolens, Tabebuia heptaphylla and Cecropia pachystachya) comprised more than 50% of the Total Importance Values (TIV), and floristic similarities between the plots averaged 38%. Although we detected an overall increase in species diversity correlated with decreasing flood levels, the most important tree species had almost identical distribution patterns along the flooding gradient. The stand basal area per plot (s.d.) amounted to 3.0 1.1 m (47.818.1 m/ha), and the tree heights averaged 10.91.4 m. Multiplying the individual basal areas by individual tree heights and a form factor of 0.6, we estimated the aboveground wood volume (AWV) for each individual, and for each plot (24.411.7 m, 391.1188 m/ha). Wood specific gravity (SG) varied between 0.39 g/cm (Cecropia pachystachya) and 0.87 g/cm (Tabebuia heptaphylla), with a stand level average of 0.630.12 g/cm. Multiplying the individual AWV with species SG, we estimated the plot AWB to be 16.26.4 Mg (259.4102 Mg/ha). This value is comparable to that reported for late-successional forest stands of Amazonian floodplain forests, and it is close to the worldwide tropical average AWB. Because tree heights in the present forest were comparatively low when compared to other Neotropical forests, we found that resprouting of stems accounted for comparatively high basal areas. We argue that stem resprouting is an adaptation of tree species originating in non-flooded Cerrado to the seasonal inundations of riparian forests.
23486816|There are only a few exceptions to the rule that polyploidy in Taraxacum is associated with agamospermy. One of them is the sexual, tetraploid species Taraxacum stenocephalum. Incidentally, remarkable variation in karyology was found in this species. The present study aims to confirm this variation by an extensive screen of nuclear DNA content. Individuals from two large populations in the Lesser and Greater Caucasus, Georgia were analyzed using flow cytometry to ascertain intraspecific nuclear DNA content variation. Across the whole data set comprising all 159 individuals, a 1.223-fold difference was detected based on propidium iodide (PI) analyses. To verify this finding, we compared flow-cytometric data obtained using DAPI (4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole) and PI staining using a representative subset of individuals. This comparison revealed a 1.194-fold difference in DNA content for DAPI and a 1.219-fold difference for PI. Mean nuclear genome size in absolute terms (2C value  s.d.) was estimated at 4.380.21 pg, ranging from 4.01 pg to 4.89 pg, despite the invariable chromosome counts of 2n=32. A regression analysis comparing the datasets for DAPI and PI staining found a strong correlation between data obtained by the DAPI and PI dyes (P=0.976; P=0.0001). Simultaneous high-resolution flow-cytometric analyses also proved the accuracy of our findings. We discuss possible sources of these large differences in DNA content within Taraxacum stenocephalum. Further research is needed to identify the source of this remarkable variation.
4201265| The 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens deposited new substrates upon which wetlands are now developing. We collected soil from five wetlands south of Spirit Lake, Mount St. Helens, Washington, to examine the seed banks. Seedling emergence density in the top 5 cm was highly variable, and ranged from (mean  s.d.) 15,700  15,200 to
25133805|The status of common reed (Phragmites australis) in south-eastern Australia was assessed by considering its physical habitat. Phragmites habitats were categorized into three types - wetland, riverine and estuarine and all three showed negative change (loss, degradation) since European settlement. However, there were also instances of positive (new, re-establishment) changes. Integrating these negative and positive changes at the catchment scale for the Murrumbidgee River, suggests a re-distribution of Phragmites is occurring, and this may be true for other rivers managed for irrigation. Agriculture appears to be the principal cause of Phragmites australis losses in eastern Australia. There is no evidence to date of reed decline in Australia like that in parts of Europe, nor of expansion as in the coastal wetlands of the United States of America. The habitat approach used here was qualitative but this was necessary due to the lack of historical data on Phragmites and to the limited number of case studies. However, quantitative studies are needed, in order to understand how river health and aquatic biodiversity are being affected.
4201359|The classification of South Siberian meadows using the Braun-Blanquet approach was carried out on the basis of a geographically wide-ranging data set from the West Siberian Plain and the Altai-Sayanian mountain systems. Two main phytosociological types of meadows were distinguished within the class Molinio-Arrhenatheretea. The natural Siberian forest meadows were included in the order Carici macrourae-Crepidetalia sibiricae comprising two alliances (Crepidion sibiricae, Aconito barbati-Vicion unijugae) and 7 associations. The anthropogenic types of dry meadows were included in the European-West Siberian order Arrhenatheretalia, comprising one alliance (Festucion pratensis) and 5 associations. DCA ordination revealed clear differences in the floristic composition of the higher units and in the diagnostic importance of the main ecological and phytosociological species groups.
25133950|Eleocharis mamillata is a widespread species in the temperate zone of Eurasia and North America. Populations in mountainous areas of Europe and Asia (the Pyrenees, Alps, Carpathians, Balkans, Ural, Caucasus, Altai) can be separated as subspecies austriaca differing mainly by the stylopodium shape from the nominate subspecies. Clear morphological criteria to create a separate infraspecific taxon in East Asia could not be found.
25134143|Density-dependent processes may have multiple effects on populations, which among other things include the regulation of population abundance and of the relative distribution of life-cycle stages within populations. The epiphytic habitat is often characterized as highly ephemeral and therefore epiphytic orchid populations may never achieve density-dependent regulation. In this study, we investigated the potential for density-dependent regulation in epiphytic and lithophytic orchids by examining the association between seedlings, juvenile and adult life-history stages in the Caribbean endemic orchid, Lepanthes rupestris in a cross-sectional study of 179 populations surveyed in the Luquillo National Forest along a riparian area where it is locally abundant. Under density-dependent regulation we expected a negative association between the ratio of seedling/adults and juveniles/adults and total population density. Population density was in the range of 140 individuals per m, however patch sizes were small and mostly limited to less than 0.5 m with a maximum of 3 m. We found no evidence of reduction of the ratio of seedlings or juveniles to adults as population size increased in either tree or boulder populations suggesting negative density dependence for population regulation in L. rupestris is either rare or occurs at even higher densities than those measured here. Moreover, we found positive (although weak) relationship between the ratio of seedlings and juveniles to adults and population size, suggesting that facilitation may be occurring.
4201403|Copper mine populations of Lychnis alpina are shown to be significantly more resistant to increased copper concentrations compared to populations on normal soils. Data obtained from isozyme polymorphism analysis revealed that although the copper populations display considerable variation, they have lower genetic variability than the populations from normal soils, both on a local and a global scale, thus indicating a slight founder effect. Copper ecotypes in L. alpina have originated independently. The results are similar to what recently have been reported in heavy metal tolerant populations of Armeria maritima.
23064583|Chromosome counts are reported for 15 species of the family Asteraceae from Inner Mongolia (People's Republic of China). This study includes representatives of the tribes Anthemideae (Artemisia, Chrysanthemum, Filifolium, Hippolytia and Neopallasia), Astereae (Heteropappus) and Cardueae (Echinops and Olgaea). The significance of the chromosome counts is discussed for each species. Within the Anthemideae, chromosome counts for Hippolytia alashanensis (2n=36) and the tetraploid level of Artemisia eriopoda (2n=36) are reported for the first time. The chromosome number of Heteropappus altaicus (Astereae) agrees with previous reports of one (4x) of the two ploidy levels reported for this taxon. As a complement to the karyological data, genome size of the Cardueae representatives was assessed using flow cytometry. Within this tribe, Echinops gmelini (2n=26) and its sister taxon E. acantholepis (2n=14) show strongly divergent karyological patterns of difficult interpretation, whereas the count of E. przewalskyi (2n=32), assigned here for the first time, coincides with those of its close relatives. In Olgaea tangutica, the chromosome count (2n=24) and genome size (2C=3.01 pg) given here are the first reports for both the species and the genus.
25133782|Habitat alteration can deteriorate plant-pollinator interactions and thereby increase the risk of population extinction. As part of a larger study on the effects of changes in land use on fen grassland vegetation, factors influencing the seed set of a short-lived, endangered wetland plant, Pedicularis palustris, were studied. We conducted field pollination experiments in one large and one small population. To investigate the effect of pollen source on seed set, individual flowers of caged plants were left unpollinated or were pollinated with pollen from the same flower, the same population or another population. To study pollen limitation and flower display, whole plants were subjected to pollinator exclosure, hand pollination or natural pollination. Self-compatibility was high, but differed between populations (61% and 97% of seed set after cross-pollination within populations). Cross-pollination between populations did not significantly alter seed number per capsule. Pollinator exclosure resulted in a very low seed set (< 15% of natural seed set), despite high self-compatibility. The most likely explanations for high self-compatibility in combination with low autofertility are geitonogamy as reproductive assurance, selective neutrality of self-compatibility and phylogenetic constraints. Because of low autofertility, the seed set in P. palustris depends on pollinators. In the study populations, natural pollination was clearly sufficient for maximum seed production per plant, but seed set per capsule was significantly pollen-limited in the smaller population. Plants in this population also had a higher maximum percentage of simultaneously open flowers than those of the large population (31% vs. 13%), while flower longevity was generally extended without pollination. It is concluded that P. palustris may influence pollinator behaviour and therefore the risk of pollen limitation by flower display. P. palustris showed a flexible reaction to differing pollination regimes without losses in overall seed set in the study populations.
23064589|We studied the extrinsic factors behind the low number of offspring in two populations of Anagyris foetida, a bird-pollinated leguminous shrub of the Mediterranean region. Fruit initiation was pollen limited, but fruit maturation was not. This limiting effect varied between flowering seasons and between populations, and also within a given phenological stage. In the first season, the early flowers had the lowest fruit set, while in the second season fruit set was highest in these early flowers. This was possibly related to the pollination environment. Seed initiation (fertilized ovules) increased following pollen supplementation, but this was not translated into a significant increase in either the number of seeds per fruit, or seed mass. This indicates that seed initiation is pollen limited but that other factors (e.g., resource availability) are involved in seed maturation. Abiotic factors such as excess humidity during flowering were responsible for the loss of inflorescences, especially in one of the two populations. In this population, the prevailing wind in autumn-winter was less effective in drying the flowers when there was excess humidity. Also, significantly fewer inflorescences were lost from solitary plants than from clustered plants, probably reflecting the beneficial action of the wind and the greater light levels during flowering. Of the biotic factors analyzed, sheep predation was the most important, being worse in drought years. This predation, by affecting population density, could modify the plant-pollinator interaction and severely reduce the plant's breeding success because of its pollen limitation.
4201282|Observations on floral morphology of eight species of Dioscorea L., namely, D. bulbifera L., D. dumetorum (Kunth) Pax, D. hirtiflora Benth., D. minutiflora Engl., D. preussii Pax, D. odoratissima Pax, D. rotundata Poir. and D. smilacifolia De Wild. are presented. The most remarkable distinctive features of the taxa studied are: the presence of large fruits and receme inflorescences in D. preussii, the absence of pendulous inflorescences in D. dumetorum, and the absence of stalks in female flowers of D. bulbifera.
23264774|Currently, there are nine species classified within the genus Coronilla (Loteae, Fabaceae); however, some populations discovered in the province of Almera, SE Spain, have features that are not present, as a whole, in the other known species. These plants are related to Coronilla juncea and C. minima, although several features of branches, leaves, flowers and seeds (zigzag branches; fleshy, deciduous leaves without hyaline margin; connate reddish stipules; very narrow seeds with fluted foveolae) are usually recognized as belonging to distinct species. To clarify the taxonomic status of these populations, morphological and genetic studies have been performed. The results obtained suggest that their separate classification is appropriate. Accordingly, a new species, Coronilla talaverae, whose currently recorded range is restricted to three populations in southeastern Spain is described here. Regarding its risk of extinction, the IUCN red list criteria have been followed to assess its category, proposing the status EN Blab(i,ii,iii,v)+2ab(i,ii,iii,v). In addition, an identification key is provided for the species of the genus Coronilla.
4201312|Agamospermous species account for a large proportion of the species of Limonium. Agamospermy is indicated by uneven polyploidy or aneuploidy, low pollen stainability and by the presence of monomorphic self-incompatible populations. The taxonomic treatment of agamospermous taxa varies from recognition of all of them at the same specific rank or by utilising a range of ranks in the taxonomic hierarchy. The influence of evolutionary hypotheses on taxonomic systems is considered. Molecular data provide a means of measuring the genetical relationships of taxa and establishing groups in a taxonomic hierarchy.
23064547|The complicated desert vegetation pattern and its links to soil conditions in the Manas River basin where the natural landscape and human land-use history are representative for NW China and even central Asia are quantitatively investigated in this study. Vegetation and soil of 47 remnant desert and 22 cropland stands along the Manas River were sampled. Soil features, including Total Organic Carbon (TOC), total and individual $({\mathrm{H}\mathrm{C}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-},\text{\hspace{0.17em}}{\mathrm{C}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{2-},\text{\hspace{0.17em}}{\mathrm{C}\mathrm{l}}^{-},\text{\hspace{0.17em}}{\mathrm{S}\mathrm{O}}_{4}^{2-},\text{\hspace{0.17em}}{\mathrm{K}}^{+},\text{\hspace{0.17em}}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{a}}^{+},\text{\hspace{0.17em}}{\mathrm{C}\mathrm{a}}^{2+},\text{\hspace{0.17em}}{\mathrm{M}\mathrm{g}}^{2+})\phantom{\rule{0ex}{0ex}}\phantom{\rule{0ex}{0ex}}$ salt content, and physical components of both remnant desert and cropland stands were analyzed in a laboratory. In total, eight types of desert and lowland marsh communities are distinguished. Topographical conditions are found to strongly affect soil features. The topsoil is also distinguishable from the subsoil, particularly in clay content. Statistical analyses demonstrate that both silt percentage and total salt content in the soil are significant for the distribution of plant communities. Discriminant functions for the main desert and lowland marsh types were established based on their subsoil features, with accuracy up to 83%. The vegetation patterns prior to massive cultivation of 22 cropland plots were reliably interpreted from the cropland subsoil features using these discriminant functions. Twenty of them coincide very well with topological conditions, place names and records in literature, further confirming that the subsoil features have not substantially changed in the shifting from desert to cropland.
25133758| Vegetation development in the lowland floodplain alder carr "Na bahn" (eastern Bohemia, the Czech Republic) has been studied by means of pollen and macrofossil analyses and combined with vegetation analysis performed over the last 70 years. Local successional changes started with an oxbow lake (160 cal BC) which has later terrestrialised (630 cal AD). Then it changed from a typical alluvial fen into a Sphagnum-dominated spring mire (950 cal AD) supplied by water arising from a river terrace surrounding the locality from three sites. In the centre of this wetland a small patch of alder carr developed (100 cal. AD), showing some tendency towards cyclic succession. The alder carr alternated several times with an open Carex fen (1100 cal AD to recent). The last fen-to-alder carr transition has been documented by direct observation during this century. Possible autogenic and allogenic factors driving the succession are discussed. The model of autogenic cyclic succession corresponds well with direct field observations and can be used to interpret alder carr structure, its dynamics, and function. 
25133821|In order to provide insight into the possible differentiation within Myosotis lamottiana, which is a classical example of a species with a disjunct distribution area, a morphological analysis of 12 populations and a chromosome number analysis of 15 populations were made. Conspicuous chromosomal differentiation was observed comprising diploids (2n=22) and tetraploids (2n=44). The diploid chromosome number is reported for the first time for this species. Diploid and tetraploid cytotypes differ in geographical distributions; diploids are restricted to the Massif Central and tetraploids to the Pyrenees, Mt. Picos de Europa and the Cantabrian Mountains. A detailed morphometric analysis, however, revealed no clear-cut differences in the morphology of diploids and tetraploids except for pollen size, which is a character obviously correlated with ploidy level. No obvious ecological differences were observed between the cytotypes. It was concluded that the current disjunct distribution of diploids and tetraploids of M. lamottiana may be explained by non-adaptive processes rather than by adaptive ones. A morphological description and notes on the nomenclature of M. lamottiana are presented as well. A lectotype is chosen and designated for the name Myosotis lamottiana Braun-Blanq.
25133979|Applying sewage sludges to agricultural land is a widespread practice because of the sludges' agronomic value as a source of plant nutrients and organic matter. Nevertheless, sludges often contain micropollutants that can constitute a menace for health and the environment. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are sensitive to sewage sludges that have been spiked, or not, with metallic trace elements (MTE). Here we have investigated if MTE in sewage sludges could be responsible for effects on mycorrhizal development between Glomus mosseae and Medicago truncatula. The impact of a dehydrated or composted urban sewage sludge spiked or not with MTE, was tested on spore germination and root colonization by G. mosseae. The sewage sludges depressed both the presymbiotic and in planta stages of development of the mycorrhizal fungus. This negative effect was more related to the metallic pollutant contents of the sludges than to the presence of antagonistic microorganisms or phosphorus.
4201447| The ploidy level and karyotype of Muscari botryoides (s.l.) samples from Hungary (25 localities) and Romania (1 locality: locus classicus of M. transsilvanicum) were determined. The Romanian sample proved to be diploid (2n=18), while in Hungary both diploid and tetraploid (2n=36) populations occurred. The karyotypes of all diploid populations were similar: 2 pairs of long acrocentric (one of them usually with satellites) + 3 pairs of medium-sized submetacentric-metacentric + 4 pairs of short  metacentric chromosomes. All diploid populations in Hungary can be identified as M. transsilvanicum. There is no reason to support the taxon M. botryoides subsp. hungaricum because it does not differ from the sample collected at the locus classicus of M. transsilvanicum (Romania, Sibiu-Guteria) in any of the characteristics mentioned in its protologue. Its karyotype also corresponds to that of M. transsilvanicum. Contrary to the former assumptions, the tetraploid M. botryoides is also native to Hungary. The tetraploid karyotype seems to be somewhat of a duplication of the diploid one. Morphological characters used in the identification keys are not suitable for unambiguous separation of the taxa mentioned above, though morphometric analyses revealed some quantitative differences between diploids and tetraploids. Their separation on species level can only be supported by the supposed reproductive barriers caused by different ploidy level and chorology. In Hungary M. transsilvanicum is restricted mostly to the Eupannonian Region, the Mecsek and Villny Mts. M. botryoides does not occur in the Eupannonicum, instead it inhabits the subatlantic hilly W and SW part of Hungary and the Northern Mountain Range. The latter territory (including also the Slovak localities) seems to be the easternmost extension of the area of M. botryoides. 
4201442|Many recent studies have demonstrated a negative effect of small population size on single plant traits. However, not much is known about the actual consequences of reduced plant performance on the long-term prospect of species survival. I studied the effect of population size on population growth rate and survival probability in the rare perennial herb Scorzonera hispanica occurring in fragmented grasslands. Its performance was measured using several traits related to reproduction in 21 populations ranging in size from 3 to 2475 plants. These data were then connected with data on full demongraphy of the species from three of the studied populations. Two different matrix models differing in the number of transitions based on measurements in the populations differing in size were used to explore the relationship between population size and population growth rate. Both matrix models showed that despite the decline in seed production in small populations, population growth rate is never significantly different from one, and the populations could thus be expected to survive in the long run. Calculations of extinction probabilities that take into account demographic and environmental stochasticity, however, showed that populations below 100 flowering individuals have a high probability to become extinct. This demonstrates that demographic and environmental stochasticity is an important driver of the fate of small populations in this system. This study demonstrates that estimation of population growth rate can provide new insights into the effect of population size on population growth and survival. It also shows how matrix models enable the combination various pieces of information about the single populations into one overall measure, and may provide a useful tool for the standardization of studies on the effects of population size on population performance.
4201270|Scilla talosii Tzanoudakis et Kypriotakis from the islet of Dia is described as a new species. It is an autumn-flowering taxon related to Scilla autumnalis L. and S. obtusifolia Poiret but distinct morphologically and cytologically from both these taxa. S. talosii is polyploid with 2n=ca. 150 chromosomes.
23486812|Dynamics of bryophyte assemblages of saline grassland were studied in Hungary. A survey was carried out in two permanent plots by annual sampling of 0.25-m 2 quadrats over a 9-year period. The study investigated: i) the extent of spatial and temporal dependence of the assemblages and individual species; ii) the turnover of individual species and its relationship to life-strategy types and iii) the effect of annual weather conditions on species performance. One of the plots showed succession; the frequency of some perennial species increased, while that of some short-lived species decreased; this process was independent of local weather conditions. The other plot showed a non-directional fluctuation, which was partly related to precipitation in winter and early spring. The spatial and temporal dependence of this assemblage was low; many short-lived species had a high turnover in the studied community. In stable periods, neutral dynamic processes characterize the bryophyte assemblages of the studied saline grassland and the occurrences of species were more or less independent in space and time. Short-lived species showed high fluctuations and were probably influenced by weather conditions or other factors. However, the frequency of perennial species, which were influenced by local conditions, could directionally change displacing the short-lived ones during succession. The relationships between turnover and life-strategy types were weak, both the group of colonist and shuttle species were dynamically heterogeneous. Longer observations are needed for a clearer exploration of the relationships between vegetation changes and weather conditions.
25134031|The biomass allocation pattern in plants is known to depend on the below and above-ground resource availabilities. In a herbaceous multi-species stand, it can be expected that the effects of nutrient and light availability on plants' general space-use strategy are fundamentally different. We hypothesized that nutrient status alters the amount of biomass produced per unit canopy volume (biomass density), but not so much the biomass vertical distribution pattern. Changes in light availability, in contrast, should affect the vertical distribution pattern of biomass but not biomass density. We were also interested in whether the effect of resource manipulation on a plant's space-use strategy depends on its basic morphological characteristics (growth form). The results from a four-year permanent plot experiment in a species-rich grassland, with fertilization and additional illumination from mirrors applied to 40  40 cm plots, showed that our main hypothesis was correct. Fertilization significantly affected biomass density above as well as below-ground, while additional illumination generally did not. Light addition altered the vertical distribution pattern of above-ground biomass, which remained unaffected by the fertilizer treatment. The effects of resource manipulations on plants' space-use strategy were strongly dependent on the basic morphological traits of species. Plants with a leafy stem (grasses and upright forbs) could significantly increase their above-ground biomass density with fertilization, while the ones without a leafy stem (sedges and rosette-forming forbs) could not. Additional illumination, however, significantly increased the amount of biomass per unit canopy volume only in species with narrow leaves (graminoids). The space-use strategy and vertical allocation pattern of extra resources clearly depend on the balance between light and nutrient resources and on plants' growth forms.
4201353| The population sex ratio, spatial distribution, relative growth rate, canopy size and morphology, and nitrogen content of leaves of male and female individuals were compared in seven populations of the dioecious shrub Pistacia lentiscus L. occurring in different localities of the Serra da Arrbida Natural Park, Portugal. The expected pattern of male preponderance in stressful habitats was tested. Less perturbed areas, with a well developed vegetation cover, had male-biased sex ratios, while in former agricultural areas there were no significant differences between the number of male and female plants. Our results failed to reveal any significant differences in the morphological variables between sexes except in the number of basal stems. Male plants also had a significantly higher chlorophyll content (chl a+b) than female plants. But when plants were sorted into large and small individuals, larger plants showed a significantly higher leaf area index and a significantly higher number of basal stems. There were no significant differences in the leaf nitrogen content between male and female plants from June to August, but such differences appeared (P < 0.001) in September and October corresponding to the production of mature fruits. Differences in sex-ratio may be explained by different resource allocation patterns of the two sexes, which favoured male plants in the less perturbed environments. In agricultural areas farmers could also have favoured female plants in former times. 
23065007|Resprouting ability may increase a plant's resistance to recurrent disturbances in aquatic ecosystems. We investigated the effect of mechanical disturbances on survival and regrowth patterns in three clonal aquatic species of similar growth form but with different ecological ranges in terms of flooding (Myriophyllum verticillatum, Myriophyllum spicatum and Potamogeton coloratus). P. coloratus prefers to colonize stable habitats, whereas M. verticillatum occurs in intermediately flooded habitats and M. spicatum is tolerant to a high flooding frequency. Two cutting treatments (single cuts or repeated cuts) were applied under controlled conditions. We hypothesized that M. verticillatum and M. spicatum would be resistant to cutting displaying either a tolerant or an escape strategy whereas P. coloratus would be sensitive to cutting. Our hypothesis was validated, as the three species displayed contrasting responses to disturbance. M. verticillatum displayed efficient clonal propagation following breakage (escape strategy), but its growth rate decreased after recurrent disturbances. P. coloratus displayed a close response but was unable to compensate biomass loss even after one cut. M. spicatum maintained a similar growth rate by developing a densely branched form despite recurrent disturbances but with a low investment in clonal growth (tolerance strategy). Both biomass compensation and clonal propagation influence plant fitness, but their relative advantage differs depending on the flooding frequency experienced by plants in their natural habitats. Clonal propagation may promote recolonization after disturbances in infrequently flooded sites, but seems less efficient than a tolerance strategy for survival in frequently flooded sites.
41245485|Inselbergs, mountain ridges and latentie crusts are characteristic landscape elements in many tropical regions. They are of great interest from a botanical point of view. Their vegetation is relatively uniform and differs from the surrounding vegetation. The first synopsis of herbaceous vegetation of seasonally wet or inundated habitats on rocks, inselbergs, mountain ridges and latentie crusts in several bioclimatic zones of tropical West Africa and Atlantic Central Africa is presented. A classification of 43 partial data sets, based on 378 relevs, resulted in four associations and several rankless communities, grouped into four different classes (Drosero-Xyridetea, Afrotrilepidete a pilosae, Lycopodietea cernui and Microchloetea indicae). Plant communities from Atlantic Central Africa and West Africa are very distinct from a floristic point of view; in an ordination, they are clearly separated. The Dr oser indicae-Utticularietalia subulatae (Drosero-Xyridetea) comprises ephemeral vegetation in rock pools and depressions over lateritic crusts. It contains the Eriocaulo pumili-Ophioglossion gomezianum, which combines communities with short-lived plant species in small pools on rock outcrops and in shallow depressions over laterite, and the Genliseo africanae-Sporobolion pauciflori, which colonizes similar habitats but is geographically restricted to few mountains in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. Mats of monocotyledonous plants (Afrotrilepidetea pilosae. Afrotrilepidetalia pilosae) are very widespread in humid parts of tropical West Africa. They colonize gentle slopes and are often close to communities of the Drosero-Utricularietalia subulatae. Three alliances can be distinguished: West African alliances Cyanotido lanatae-Afrotrilepidion pilosae and Spermacoco hepperanae-Afrotrilepidion pilosae, and an Atlantic Central African Oreonesiono testui-A frotrilepidion pilosae. Small-scale alterations of the ecological situation often result in a mosaic-like pattern of the plant communities. Especially small inselberg and rock outcrop habitats are often affected by heavy fluctuations of their environmental and climatic conditions. Besides regular short-term dynamics, there are also long-term vegetation dynamics with cycles spanning several years.
25133822|The Achillea millefolium group is represented in the Czech Republic and Slovakia by six species. Achillea setacea and A. asplenifolia are diploid; A. collina and A. pratensis are tetraploid; A. millefolium is hexaploid; and A. pannonica is octoploid. The populations from Slovakia of the A. distans group, distributed mainly in Central and south-eastern Europe, were all hexaploid. The presence of these taxa in the area studied was documented by means of chromosome counts in 285 plants originating from 110 mainly natural populations. Results of the chromosome counts are discussed against a background of literature data from Europe. For the species studied, brief descriptions as well as comments on their distribution and ecology are provided.
23064560|The species-area relationship (SAR) is one of the most frequently described patterns in biodiversity; however, it is seldom applied in conservation practice. Awareness of some shortcomings such as scale dependency is the basis for a better understanding of biodiversity patterns and a way to cope with artifacts occurring in empirical data. We demonstrate effects of scale dependency within plant communities deriving from different scale ranges, extreme values and curve intersections on empirical data of forest and grassland communities and propose to reduce the effect of scale dependence and artifacts of the SAR within plant communities by using limited scale ranges. Due to scale dependence, an appropriate limited scale range should be chosen, depending on vegetation type and realized scale range of the considered data set. Species-area curves based on the standard Whittaker plots for plant communities could act as references to assess species richness of the large pool of vegetation records of different sizes and provide a tool for ranking species diversity for grassland and forest communities, where vegetation records differ considerably in plot size.
25133937|As an introduction to the special issue "Vegetation of Circumboreal Coniferous Forests", a brief history is provided of the development and present state of floristic vegetation surveys of the boreal and mountain coniferous forests of Europe, northern Asia and North America. The focus is on forests assigned to the phytosociological class Vaccinio-Piceetea and closely related vegetation types.
25134146|A summary pollen diagram and old cartographic materials were used to reconstruct the recent vegetation history and trends of temporal dynamics of the North Adriatic Karst grasslands. Before the Roman period some evidence about grassland vegetation exists from Neolithic settlements, but deforestation, detectable on the landscape level because of pollen, started 2500-2000 years BP. A large-scale anthropogenically-driven process of clearance started in the Roman period as is reflected in the increasing pollen of grasses (Poaceae) and other herbaceous species (Apiaceae). The presence of pioneer trees (Quercus, Ostrya), juniper and grasses during 1000-400 years BP suggests that cycling processes of cultivation (strong grazing pressure), abandonment and re-cultivation were present. A 250-year-old map shows a peak of probable deforestation, where grasslands have 3.2 times larger surface area than on a recent land-use map in a 665.8 km large pilot area. More than 60% of grasslands changed into forest since then. On a sub-plot area of 626 ha (1% of the pilot area), where habitat mappings were performed, only 12.8% were still grasslands without tall herb invasions or scrub encroachments. Another 27.1% were grasslands with early signs of reforestation. The traditionally open landscape of the North Adriatic Karst was able to recover to forest due to almost total abandonment and sufficient mesic climate conditions.
4201443| The Loess Plateau is one of the most environmentally sensitive regions in China. This study addresses the relationships between vegetation and climate of this area quantitatively at a large-scale, in order to determine the factors that control vegetation distribution. The Loess Plateau, located at 10101-11510 E and 3402-4040 N, covers an area of 52 million hectares. Vegetation data were collected from the vegetation map (1: 500,000) and the Landsat Thematic Mapper scenes of the Loess Plateau. The Loess Plateau was divided into small districts of 30 latitude by 30 longitude on the vegetation map. In each district, areas with different vegetation were measured and used as vegetation data. The climatic data were average values of county meteorological records in each district in the past 25 years. GIS, TWINSPAN and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) were employed for analysis. 257 small districts were clustered into 7 groups using TWINSPAN, representing 7 vegetation regions or subregions. The first three CCA axes had significant correlations with climate. The first CCA axis represented the variation of vegetation and climate along the latitude gradient, while the second CCA axis the variation along the longitude gradient. The distribution pattern of 171 vegetation formations on the CCA plot is identical to that of vegetation regions (districts). The spatial distribution of vegetation is closely related to climate variables on the Loess Plateau. Water variables and temperature are important in both latitude and longitude gradients, while the sunshine hours, accumulated temperature and wind speed are more important than water variables and temperature in longitude gradients. 
23064973|In Central Europe several plant species of dry grasslands are particularly rare. Here I investigate whether habitat requirements, reproduction, and dispersal potential can contribute to the rarity of Astragalus exscapus (Fabaceae) growing in dry grassland habitats in dry regions of Europe. In addition, I question whether historic events might have contributed to the present-day rarity of A. exscapus. To assess habitat requirements of A. exscapus, vegetation composition and soil characteristics were studied in 37 populations in central Germany. Production and dispersal potential of seeds were investigated in 10 populations, and germination and recruitment were assessed in experimental plots in three populations. Vegetation of the habitats included most dry grassland community types occurring in the central German dry region indicating a broad ecological niche of the species within dry subcontinental grasslands. Soil characteristics of the habitats also spanned a wide range. Seed production was moderate. 98% of the seeds sown in the laboratory germinated whereas under natural conditions 20% of the seeds developed seedlings. Half of these seedlings survived for one year but only 4.5% for two years. 90% of the seeds were dispersed less than 50 cm distance indicating a low dispersal potential. I conclude that A. exscapus is mainly limited in dispersal but recruitment limitation might also be important in explaining its rarity. Furthermore, former climate change and postglacial reforestation of the area very likely contribute to the rarity of A. exscapus.
23064570|Resprouting from subterranean structures is a principal method of vegetative regeneration that many shrub species show after a disturbance. This study, therefore, aims to determine the resprouting capacity and intensity of six dominant species in an Atlantic shrubland area located in the NW of the Iberian Peninsula and compare their resprouting and germinating strategies. Resprouting intensity is measured using three variables: individual probability of resprouting, number of resprouts and length of these sprouts in three plant-age classes. The intensity for each species was calculated using a simple index (IRI) that included the three measured variables. All studied species, excepting Erica umbellata, could resprout. According to the IRI values, there are three groups of species: strong resprouters (Ulex europaeus, Ulex minor and Pterospartum tridentatum), weak resprouters (Ulex micranthus and Genista triacanthos) and non-resprouters (E. umbellata). The germination of strong resprouters is highly stimulated by fire. Frequent disturbances remove the non- and weak resprouter populations and promote the strong resprouter ones.
24572017|Biodiversity experiments typically vary only species richness and composition, yet the generality of their results relies on consistent effects of these factors even under varying starting conditions of density and evenness. We tested this assumption in a factorial species richness x density x evenness experiment using a pool of 60 common grassland species divided into four functional groups (grasses, legumes, tall herbs and short herbs). Richness varied from 1, 2, 4, 8 to 16 species, total planting density was 1,000 or 2,000 seeds/m2, and species were sown in even or uneven proportions, where one functional group was made dominant. Aboveground plant biomass increased linearly with the logarithm of species richness in all density and evenness treatments during all three years of the experiment. This was due to a convergence of realized density and evenness within species richness levels, although functional groups which were initially made dominant retained their dominance. Between species richness levels, realized density increased, and realized evenness decreased with species richness. Thus, more individuals could coexist if they belonged to different species. Within species richness levels, higher biomass values were correlated with lower density, suggesting an underlying thinning process. However, communities with low realized evenness also had low biomass values; thus high biomass did not result from species dominance. So-called complementarity and selection effects were similar across density and evenness treatments, indicating that the mechanisms underpinning the biodiversity effects were not altered. Species richness was the dominant driver of aboveground biomass, irrespective of variations in total densities and species abundance distributions at the start of the experiment; rejecting the hypothesis that initial differences in species abundance distributions might lead to different "stable states" in community structure or biomass. Thus, results from previous biodiversity experiments that only manipulated species richness and composition should be quite robust and broadly generalizable.
23064488|In the present study, we investigated the species richness and species composition in relation to light and management regime in remnants of wooded meadows within the riparian forests along the middle Drava River in Slovenia. 41 plots of still managed and, at different time periods (<5 yrs, 515 yrs, >15 yrs), abandoned riparian wooded meadows (RWM) were sampled. In addition to vegetation relevs, light intensity (PAR) was also measured in plots. Within the still-managed RWM, two floristically distinct types were recognized using TWINSPAN analysis: meadow-like and forest-like. Light intensity differed significantly between types. The CCA of active RWM showed a significant relation between species composition and light conditions. The number of species per relev on active RWM was negatively correlated with light intensity  in contrast to North European wooded grasslands. This could be explained by the influence of species-rich riparian hornbeam forests that contribute many understorey species, in contrast to naturally mesotrophic meadows. CCA of both active and abandoned RWM demonstrated that light was a good predictor of RWM species composition and that abandonment caused profound changes in floristic composition. The species turnover during succession was more pronounced in less shaded meadow-like RWM where more light-requiring (grassland) species occurred. Species richness was the highest in active forest-like RWM. There were no significant differences in species richness between active meadow-like RWM and groups of abandoned RWM. The remains of riparian forests stretching along the flood plains of Central and Eastern Europe are considered one of the most natural ecosystems in the prevailing agricultural landscape. But naturalness could be in many cases only the consequence of abandonment of ancient land-use practices, like grazing of livestock, cutting between the trees, litter collecting, etc. Examination of the middle Drava River in Slovenia suggests the need to recognize the remains of ancient cultural landscape.
23064932|Ericaceae associate with a wide spectrum of root mycobionts, but the most common are ascomycetous ericoid mycorrhizal fungi and dark septate endophytes (DSE), followed by basidiomycetous fungi and glomeracean arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. We investigated distribution and morphological diversity of ericoid mycorrhizae (ErM), DSE associations, ectomycorrhizae (EcM) and arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) in hair roots of six European native Rhododendron species and found that i) while EcM and AM were absent, ErM and DSE associations were simultaneously present in all screened plants; ii) their levels were negatively correlated, suggesting Ericaceae preference for certain root-fungus association in certain habitats; iii) the highest ErM colonization occurred at sites in southern and central Europe, while the highest DSE colonization was found in a subarctic site in northern Finland and in a subalpine site in the Carpathians, suggesting a latitudinal/altitudinal shift in Ericaceae root-fungus associations; iv) some mycelia could simultaneously form structures corresponding to ErM and DSE association, which occasionally resulted in a unique ectendomycorrhizal colonization comprising an intercellular parenchymatous net and intracellular hyphal coils. These results indicate frequent interactions between ErM fungi and DSE in roots of European rhododendrons and a morphological continuum between ErM and DSE associations. The new ectendomycorrhizal type deserves further investigation.
25134107|Euphrasia stricta var. suecica, E. stricta var. tenuis, and Rhinanthus serotinus subsp. vernalis are three endangered, hemiparasitic annual herbs found in traditionally managed hay meadows on Gotland, Sweden. We have studied - experimentally and in the field - how some features in the present and traditional management cycle affect their fitness. We set up permanent 50  50-cm plots in a coastal hay meadow where both E. stricta var. suecica and Rhinanthus are still quite common. The survival, growth and fecundity of cohorts of Euphrasia and Rhinanthus were followed throughout the growing season for three years. The length of the growing season was vital for Euphrasia and Rhinanthus performance. In cooler summers, the percentage of Euphrasia individuals that produced mature seeds was decreased by 20% at the time of mowing. This indicates the need to individually adjust the time of mowing, as was formerly done, to the actual phenological development in order to maintain healthy populations. It is also important to consider the effect of time of mowing on total species richness, as Euphrasia more successfully established in 10  10-cm squares with high species richness. Also, the time in spring when hemiparasite growth started was crucial. Cohorts of both Euphrasia stricta var. suecica and Rhinanthus that connected to hosts and started growing early in the season had a strong advantage over later cohorts by having fitness values four to eight times higher. From this we conclude that the traditional practice of spring raking is important for the long-term persistence of these hemiparasites, since raking promotes an earlier onset of both host and hemiparasite growth. Another important issue is the traditional, but nowadays often neglected practice of letting the hay dry in the meadow after mowing. Hay that was left to dry in the meadow contributed significantly more Rhinanthus seed to the meadow than hay that was taken away immediately after mowing. We also found that seedling emergence and subsequent growth of Euphrasia stricta var. suecica was greatly enhanced by a second hay cut in September. A second cutting mimics some of the positive effects of the traditional practice of aftermath grazing, which is nowadays often abandoned.
4201379| Five microsites in shallow dystrophic waters were selected for the introduction of a critically endangered aquatic carnivorous plant Aldrovanda vesiculosa in the Tebo region in S Bohemia, the Czech Republic. The selected sites were fen pools close to two hypertrophic fishponds, Pta blato (four microsites) and Domannsk (one microsite). In June 1995, 30 plants from an allochthonous population in E Poland were introduced in each of the microsites. Water chemistry and plant growth dynamics were investigated at the microsites throughout the 1995-1996 seasons, and the maximum size of the subpopulations were estimated during the 1997-1999 seasons. The selected waters may be characterized as oligo-mesotrophic. The warm and dry 1995 season resulted in a low water level (ca. 10 cm below average) and plant propagation was poor at all but one microsite. However, the rainy and colder 1996 season resulted in a high water level, and thus rapid plant propagation occurred at all four microsites at the Pta blato fishpond and between 841 and 2669 turions were formed. Here, the doubling time of the apices was between 13.5-19.3 days in the summer. At the Domannsk fishpond, however, the growth was relatively poor in 1996. The overwintering rate of turions (19-100%) was found as being high enough to keep the introduced plant populations stable. At each of the four microsites at Pta blato, the maximum numbers of shoot apices were estimated to be between 1,000-20,000 in the 1997-1999 seasons. Depth of free water appears to be the crucial factor for the rapid growth of Aldrovanda at some selected sites; water depth below 5 cm is unfavourable. Overall, Aldrovanda was successfully established in an intensively agricultural landscape in the Tebo region. 
23064951|The current study tested the assumption that floristic and functional diversity patterns are negatively related to soil nitrogen content. We analyzed 20 plots with soil N-contents ranging from 0.63% to 1.06% in a deciduous forest near Munich (Germany). To describe species adaptation strategies to different nitrogen availabilities, we used a plant functional type (PFT) approach. Each identified PFT represents one realized adaptation strategy to the current environment. These were correlated, next to plant species richness and evenness, to soil nitrogen contents. We found that N-efficient species were typical for low soil nitrogen contents, while N-requiring species occur at high N-contents. In contrast to our initial hypotheses, floristic and functional diversity measures (number of PFTs) were positively related to nitrogen content in the soil. Every functional group has its own adaptation to the prevailing environmental conditions; in consequence, these functional groups can co-exist but do not out-compete one another. The increased number of functional groups at high N-contents leads to increased species richness. Hence, for explaining diversity patterns we need to consider species groups representing different adaptations to the current environmental conditions. Such co-existing ecological strategies may even overcome the importance of competition in their effect on biodiversity.
25134067|The relationship of the poor-rich vegetation gradient with water chemistry and geochemical bedrock zones was studied with a data set from 36 pristine mire sites in the middle boreal zone, Finland. The bipartition of bedrock zones into a granitoid zone and three other, more alkaline bedrock zones was clearly connected to the poor-rich gradient in the study area. Mires in the granitoid bedrock zone were predominantly bogs and poor fens, while most of the rich fen sites were located in other bedrock zones. In fens with strongly minerogenous hydrology, the geochemically distinct bedrock zones showed significant differences in concentrations of calcium, manganese, phosphorus, as well as in the total equivalent charge of base cations and the ratio of calcium and magnesium. In light of the indicator species based a priori poor-rich classification and a posteriori correlations with vegetation ordinations and a poor-rich indicator cover index, pH showed the strongest relationship of the water chemical variables with the poor-rich gradient. High calcium concentrations only separated extremely rich fens from other categories. The poor-rich gradient of mires is considered as a primarily pH-related vegetation continuum. A more general use of pH-classes along with hydrological and vegetation based classification is suggested for mire classification instead of the "poor-rich" terminology.
23064969|Mowing a meadow is an example of an equalizing process that reduces differences among species by removing aboveground biomass approximately 5 cm above ground. This regular disturbance that affects all plants prevents competitive exclusion of small species and thus allows coexistence of numerous species differing in shoot size. In this paper we search for the mechanism behind this by comparing the shoot biomass of 41 common species in dry and wet species-rich meadows in mown and recently abandoned plots in June (before mowing) and in October. We asked the following questions: i) Do the plants differ in proportion of biomass lost by mowing? ii) Are the mown plants able to compensate for biomass lost by mowing? iii) Is the compensatory ability of mown plants related to their size? iv) Is the compensatory ability of plants related to severity of disturbance (removed biomass)? v) Does water availability in meadows affect these features? Our results revealed that the earlier explanation of equalization of meadow plants after mowing due to the proportionally larger biomass loss in larger plants than small plants does not represent the entire mechanism. Even when larger plants in the wet meadow lost more biomass, the proportion of lost biomass was not dependent on plant size, and compensation ability (growth of mown in comparison with unmown plants) was not related to the lost biomass in this meadow type. On the contrary, the observed pattern could be explained by different compensation abilities of small versus tall plants. In addition, according to our expectations, the compensation for lost biomass in the wet meadow was higher than in the dry one.
25133841|The seasonal dynamics of a community of endomycorrhizal fungal morphotypes in the roots of three grassland species (Achillea millefolium, Poa angustifolia, Plantago lanceolata) was evaluated, together with the effects of experimental treatment (mowing and phosphorus application) and the host plant properties. Strong seasonal variability was found in the fungal community, where clear seasonal patterns can be distinguished for several fungal morphotypes. The sampling date explained 20 to 30% of the total compositional variability for all three host species. The Plantago roots host the highest number of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal populations. There are two co-dominant fungal morphotypes in Achillea roots (assigned to the genera Scutellospora and Glomus) and only one strongly dominant morphotype (assigned to Glomus), in the Poa roots. All three host species have a comparable pattern of richness of AM morphotypes with a single peak in the summer, possibly aligned with the flowering time of the host. This study found only a limited effect of mowing (on the abundance of Scutellospora-like morphotypes in the Poa roots) and no effect of fertilization with phosphorus. The effect of developmental age of individual host plants on the composition of the endomycorrhizal community was found in Plantago, but not in Achillea or Poa.
23264898|Genetic diversity is affected by breeding systems, life history traits and the distribution of species. Generally, inbred species with restricted geographic distribution have lower genetic variation compared to common outbreeding plant species. Rhinanthus osiliensis is a narrow endemic growing in calcareous spring fens on the island Saaremaa, Estonia. Presumably the closest congener of R. osiliensis is R. rumelicus, which is widely distributed in Eastern and Central Europe and the Balkan Peninsula. Isozymes were used to describe the mating system, levels of genetic variation and differentiation between the populations of R. osiliensis and R. rumelicus. Genetic diversity was found to be higher in widespread R. rumelicus compared to the endemic R. osiliensis. A significantly higher inbreeding coefficient with a low germination rate indicated substantial autogamy in R. osiliensis, whereas R. rumelicus displayed a mixed mating mode with a moderate inbreeding coefficient and a high germination rate. The low genetic differentiation between R. osiliensis and R. rumelicus confirmed their close affinity and the short evolutionary period of both taxa after the postglacial colonization. Considering the restricted geographic range and inbreeding in populations of R. osiliensis, this species may face a loss of genetic variation in the future.
25134079|Increased insight into the factors that determine the importance of dispersal limitation on species richness and species composition is of paramount importance for conservation and restoration ecology. One way to explore the importance of dispersal limitation is to use seed-sowing experiments, but these do not enable the screening of large sets of species and habitats. In the present paper we present a complementary approach based on comparing small plots with larger regions with regard to species composition and distribution of functional traits. We developed a GIS tool based on ecological and geographical criteria to quantify species pools at various spatial scales. In this GIS tool, containing floristic, large databases, phytosociological and functional information are exploited. Our premise is that differences in the nature of the species in local and regional species pools with regard to functional traits can give important clues to the processes at work in the assembly of communities. We illustrate the approach with a case study for mesotrophic hay meadows (Calthion palustris). We tested the effects of differences in frequency in the local Habitat Species Pool and differences in dispersal and persistence traits of species on local species composition. Our results show that both species pool effects and functional traits affect the probability of occurrence in small plots. Species with a high propagule weight have, given the frequency in the Local Habitat Species Pool, a lower probability of occurrence in small plots. The probability of local occurrence, however, is increased by the ability to form a persistent soil seed bank and by adult longevity. This provides support for the view that the degree of dispersal limitation is dependent on the degree of spatial isolation of the focal site relative to source populations and moreover that species inherently differ in the degree to which dispersal limitation is a limiting factor for local occurrence.
25134068|Amazonian vrzea forests are floodplains inundated by nutrient-rich white-water rivers occurring along the Amazon River. They are regularly flooded for up to 210 days per year by water columns of 10-15 m. Topographic variation results in different flooding amplitudes and durations along the flooding gradient, where the different tolerance to flooding of different plant species results in a vegetation zonation. We made a review of literature about the vegetation composition of vrzea floodplain forests of Brazilian Amazonia along the Amazon River. Twenty-two studies were selected. Basing on the distribution of inventories which are concentrated in three main areas around the three larger cities Belm, Manaus and Tef, we classified the inventories into three regions: (A) Estuary region with flooding regime influenced by daily inundations linked to the tides; (B) Central Amazonia near Manaus; (C) Western part of Brazilian Amazonia bordering Peru and Colombia, including Tef and the "Reserva de Desenvolvimento Sustentvel Mamirau". Summarizing the analyzed species lists, 36 tree species were registered in all sampled regions including the estuary. The regions A + C have 63 species in common, region B + C 143, and A + B 50. In the inventories analyzed here, an increase in species numbers from East to West can be confirmed, but it is difficult to state whether this is not an artefact due to local sampling. Vertical zonation patterns are difficult to discuss due to the lack of comparable data. The inventoried areas are small, and there is an urgent need for comparable floristic inventories throughout the basin. Destruction is spreading rapidly and the traditional use of forests and its resources is changing to a destructive exploitation that already has changed much of the physiognomy and diversity of this unique ecosystem.
41245532|To study the factors that limit the occurrence of species in fen grasslands, the effects of mowing and litter removal on germination, growth and establishment of two common species (Silene flos-cuculi and Lotus pedunculatus) were analyzed along a productivity gradient at seven sites in Northern Germany. The sites differed in nutrient availability, vegetation composition and standing crop. In autumn 2002 a field experiment was set up at each site, including factorial combinations of two treatments (litter removal, mowing). Seeds and juvenile individuals of both species were transferred within the treatment combinations. The number of germinated and transplanted individuals was recorded during the 2003 and 2004 seasons and biomass of survived plants weighed in late summer 2004. Mowing and litter removal had positive effects on the number of germinated seeds of both species. The effect of litter removal was mostly significant at sites with a comparatively low nutrient availability and standing crop (350 g/m), while the effect of mowing was more important at the site with the highest standing crop (1000 g/m). In some cases the presence of litter had a positive effect on the survival of individuals, which may be caused by the extremely dry weather conditions in 2003. The experiment showed that plant species reaction on mowing and litter removal differed both according to their life stage and the site conditions. These differences could be interpreted in context with Shifting Limitation Hypothesis because the abolition of seed limitation by sowing and creation of additional gaps for germination was most efficient at low productive sites, while the high standing crop reduced first of all the establishment probability, which could be increased by mowing.
41245534|Rubus canduliger is described as a new regional bramble species belonging to the series Discolores. It has been recognized in the Netherlands as a distinct species for more than 70 years but identified as the central European R. grabowskii. The latter, however, differs by its tapering prickles, regular leaves with longer petiolule of the terminal leaflet, broader, often pyramidal inflorescence, and white or pink flowers with carpels hairy at the top. R. canduliger has a well-defined range north of the Rhine river around Arnhem where it occurs in urban and other disturbed habitats. Historical events, e.g. transport of young trees in the 16th century may explain most records south of the Rhine river, 25-50 km outside the main range. The ecology and phytosociology of the new bramble are discussed. Its distribution is compared to R. trichanthus, another regional species with a similar range as R. canduliger , but occurring in more natural habitats. In pseudogamous European blackberries (Rubus section Rubus = R. fruticosus agg.), range size is considered to be related to the age of the species. Several widespread species have disjunct distribution ranges that are suggested to be the result of long-distance dispersal by migratory birds but unintentional anthropogenic transport of seeds may be involved as well. We hypothesize that in northwestern Europe fragmentation of continuous ranges of widespread species was caused by ongoing deforestation and subsequent degradation (acidification) of originally base-rich sandy and loamy soils from the Iron Age onward. Many regional species, however, have originated and spread in the resulting man-made landscapes. A classification of range types of brambles differing in size and internal structure is presented.
25133974|Molecular identification methods are about to revolutionize studies on ecology of arbuscular mycorrhiza. These techniques offer the unique opportunity to investigate communities of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) within roots. Recent technical advances are reviewed, discussing their drawbacks and advantages. An experimental approach to analyze AMF communities within roots using a molecular identification method is presented. Sample results from the analysis of trap cultures from a current project are shown.
25134117|Flow cytometric and karyological investigations were performed on the closely related taxa Elytrigia repens and E. intermedia (Poaceae: Triticeae) from the Czech Republic. DNA-hexaploids clearly prevailed among 238 examined plants and amounted to 96.2% of all samples. 2C-values  s.d. for hexaploid Elytrigia repens and E. intermedia were estimated at 23.27  0.20 pg and 27.04  0.24 pg respectively. Genome size thus allowed reliable separation of the two species (difference ca. 16%) as well as the identification of hybrid individuals. Natural hybridization in E. repens - E. intermedia alliance seems to be quite a common phenomenon as indicated from a large proportion (one sixth) of hexaploid samples with intermediate 2C-values. Previously, the crosses were most probably overlooked or misidentified due to their weak morphological differentiation. New nonaploid cytotypes (2n=9x=63) were revealed for both species as well as for the hybrid (determined on the basis of morphological characters only), representing the first records from the field. Fusion of unreduced and reduced gametes of the hexaploids is the most plausible mode of nonaploid origin.
25133776|Seed dispersal is one of the least understood phases in plant life-cycles, despite being recognized as fundamentally important for understanding species distribution, abundance, population dynamics and life-history variation. For species living in fragmented habitats, dispersal may be crucial for regional persistence. This paper synthesizes studies performed in Swedish semi-natural grasslands and deciduous forests. The main objective was to develop a simple method to assess the dispersal and colonization ability of plants. Dispersal and colonization were considered as a series of steps: seed production, seed transport and seedling recruitment. With the use of verified assumptions on (i) a trade-off between seed production and seed size, (ii) a relatively small predictive power of seed transport for species actual dispersal and colonization, (iii) a positive effect of seed size on recruitment, and (iv) a general prevalence of recruitment limitations by seed availability, a prediction is made that dispersal and colonization ability will be highest among species with intermediate seed sizes in a given community. This prediction is supported by field data. Based on estimated dispersal and colonization ability, and the ability of local populations to persist, a scheme is suggested with four basic categories of plants. Some implications are suggested for conservation, in a landscape scale, of plants belonging to each of these four categories.
41245505|Many authors apply statistical tests to sets of relevs obtained using non-random methods to investigate phytosociological and ecological relationships. Frequently applied tests include the /-test, ANOVA, Mann-Whitney test, Kruskal-Wallis test, chi-square test (of independence, goodness-of-fit, and homogeneity), Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, concentration analysis, tests of linear correlation and Spearman rank correlation coefficient, computer intensive methods (such as randomization and re-sampling) and others. I examined the extent of reliability of the results of such tests applied to non-random data by examining the tests requirements according to statistical theory. I conclude that when used for such data, the statistical tests do not provide reliable support for the inferences made because non-randomness of samples violated the demand for observations to be independent, and different parts of the investigated communities did not have equal chance to be represented in the sample. Additional requirements, e. g. of normality and homoscedasticity, were also neglected in several cases. The importance of data satisfying the basic requirements set by statistical tests is stressed.
24572018|Plant functional traits have contributed to the understanding of how vegetation responds to management, community assembly and how vegetation controls ecosystem processes. As traits are time consuming to measure  and it may not always be feasible or practical to measure all traits within a study  great reliance has been put on using trait values from databases. This ignores intraspecific trait variability and the traits' responses to the environment. This study uses trait values measured as part of a large-scale investigation of land use impacts on vegetation to assess how environmental factors, specifically climate, soil and management, control inter-population level intra-specific variation in key traits. There was clear evidence that intra-specific variation in leaf carbon content, leaf dry matter content, leaf nitrogen content and specific leaf area were all sensitive to edaphic factors and to management, but only leaf dry matter content was linearly affected by the climate (rainfall). There were also significant interactions between climate and species identity for leaf dry matter content and leaf nitrogen content, suggesting that species responses to the climate are not uniform or simple. The results of this study suggest that site fertility and management ought to be associated with trait data in databases to allow for the incorporation of intra-specific variation in analyses and that more research is needed to identify the shape of trait:climate relationships.
25134066|We investigated the importance of water chemistry and water regime for vascular plant and bryophyte species distribution in Western Carpathian mires dominated by Sphagnum. Seventy-seven small circle plots distributed across a wide geographical area, a wide range of mineral richness and all possible microtopographical features were sampled in terms of species composition, physical-chemical water properties and water regime during one growing season. Both water chemistry and water regime were found to be important factors for vegetation composition. Bryophytes reflected only one clear gradient, connected to base-richness (pH, conductivity) and maximal water-level, whereas three different environmental gradients determined the occurrence of vascular plants: water-level amplitude, base-richness and an indistinct gradient presumably connected to peat layer thickness. When the entire data set was subjected to DCA ordination, the first resulting axis was governed by the bryophyte subset, whereas the second one was governed by the vascular plant subset. The species density of vascular plants was positively correlated with pH and conductivity. On the contrary, bryophyte species density showed no relationship to environmental factors. We further compared the pH values measured in groundwater and in water squeezed from bryophytes from the same plot; these plots were distributed along the base-richness gradient. Only in the acidic mires did the use of squeezed-water chemistry in the analyses give results similar to the use of groundwater pH. Further, we found that Sphagnum species with a similar response to the base-richness gradient had differentiated niches with respect to the water level gradient and vice versa. Sphagnum contortum and S. warnstorfii exhibiting the same demands for groundwater pH were segregated along the gradient of maximum water level. An analogous pattern was detected for acidophilous species Sphagnum magellanicum and S. papillosum.
23064833|This study focuses on a phytosociological system of the extensive Larix gmelinii and Larix cajanderi dominated forests and woodlands that span the nemoral, boreal and subarctic zones in northeast Asia in the Russian Far East, Eastern Siberia and northern China, an area that covers more than 5 million km. A total of 299 relevs representing different parts of the larch forest range were used to classify communities in this area into the boreal Rhytidio rugosi-Laricetea sibiricae and Vaccinio-Piceetea and to the nemoral Querco mongolicae-Betuletea davuricae. The hierarchical system of lower syntaxa of larch forests and woodlands of northeast Asia includes 24 associations and nine subassociations. Nineteen associations and two alliances  Rhododendro aurei-Laricion cajanderi and Rhododendro daurici-Laricion gmelinii  are described for the first time. Two associations were classified into Dictamno dasycarpi-Quercion mongolicae of Lespedezo bicoloris-Quercetalia mongolicae representing the nemoral class Querco mongolicae-Betuletea davuricae. All larch communities in the nemoral zone represent different post-fire-event stages. Eleven associations occurring in humid conditions of the boreal zone and in the areas influenced by the Pacific Ocean are classified into Abieti nephrolepidis-Piceion jezoensis, Piceion jezoensis and Pino pumilae-Piceion jezoensis representing boreal forests of humid maritime regions belonging to the order Abieti veitchii-Piceetalia jezoensis. In this area seral larch communities occupy zonal sites, and primeval larch forests may occur only in edaphic conditions restricting the distribution of zonal dominants, Picea jezoensis and the species of Abies. The area of continuous permafrost within the boreal zone having continental and ultracontinental climate conditions is occupied by primeval larch forests united in Ledo palustris-Laricion cajanderi and Rhododendro aurei-Laricion cajanderi of Ledo palustris-Laricetalia cajanderi, and on sites with dry soils with a deeper frozen horizon in Lathyro humilis-Laricion cajanderi of Lathyro humilis-Laricetalia cajanderi.
41245483|In order to better understand how flooding and gap formation affect Amazonian rainforests, I set up plots both in three major forest types that differed by flooding duration (referred to here as dry, wet, very wet) and in their respective gaps. Sampling of those plots after 4 years of regeneration showed: (1 ) common species exist between wet forests and their gaps and between wet and very wet gaps, (2) tree richness is maximum in dry forest and minimum in very wet gaps except in the wet gaps that show the second highest number of species, (3) there were less stems in gaps compared to forests and less stems in forests as flooding increased, except again in the wet gaps, and (4) dominance-diversity curves have more dominance by single species in the dry gap plots compared to other gaps and in dry forest compared to other forests. In general while some aspects of structure such as tree stem density is largely determined by tree-fall gap dynamics, tree composition is determined by flooding regime. Finally a jump in tree richness in wet forests and wet gaps compared to other plots suggests a "mass effects" hypothesis where species from dry and very wet forest and gaps have overlapping ranges in the wet forest and gap. This effect may help explain the high species diversity seen in this part of the Amazon.
25134078|Considerable recent research effort has gone into studying how dispersal might affect the diversity of local communities. While this general topic has received attention from theoretical and empirical ecologists alike, the research focus has differed between the two groups; theoretical ecologists have explored the role of dispersal in the maintenance of diversity within local communities, whereas empirical ecologists have sought to quantify the role of dispersal in limiting local diversity. We argue that there is no necessary relationship between these two components of diversity and we therefore need to develop empirical approaches to quantify the dispersal-maintained component of diversity, as well as the dispersal-limited component. We develop one such approach in this paper, based on a quantitative partitioning of the natural regeneration within intact communities onto different sources of recruits (local community vs. dispersal across different spatial or temporal scales).
25133790| For a hundred years semi-natural species-rich meadow vegetation has been described from various areas of Switzerland. The first description dates from 1892 by Stebler and Schrter. In the present study, relevs of 65 semi-natural mesophilous meadow associations and communities reported by 26 authors, which were collected throughout the century, are summarized. An increasing number of descriptions dating from the 1980s and 1990s is included. A numerical classification of these 65 types resulted in four main groups of meadow-types. When compared with the existing literature of alliances a high correlation is found with the Polygono-Trisetion Br.-Bl. et R. Tx. ex Marshall 1947, the Arrhenatherion W. Koch 1926, the Agrostio-Festucion Pucaru et al. 1956, the Mesobromion Br.-Bl. et Moor 1938 em. Oberdorfer 1957, and with the Chrysopogonetum W. Koch 1943. The Agrostio-Festucion is characteristic for the montane belt in southern Switzerland and was until recently poorly known. This alliance is discussed in detail. Some classifications of meadow types by the original authors had to be rearranged for the present purpose. The present classification coincides well with the one Stebler and Schrter gave in 1892. Today, after a century of intensive changes in land use, their four main types are still valid. 
23486787|In this study we explored the regeneration niche of 18 alpine plant species by testing the germination responses and seedling growth to soil mixtures made with gypsum, ophiolite, and quartzite, and a control soil. We analyzed different phases of germination: time of radicle emergence, germination duration, and germination percentage, and thereafter seedling performance measured using seedling biomasses. Species were grouped as acidophilous, basophilous and neutrophilous according to their Ellenberg indicator values. Seeds were germinated on each soil mixture in a greenhouse, and then seedlings were selected and transplanted outdoors to grow for one season at 2,050 m a.s.l. The time of radicle emergence, length of germination, final germination percentage, seedling biomass and specific leaf area (SLA) varied according to the soil mixtures depending on the pH group. There were some consistencies between the Ellenberg groups, which were built for adult plant species, and the way these seedlings responded to a particular soil mixture. For instance, the group of species predominantly occurring in basic soils during their adult life (basophilous) had the highest germination percentage and the shortest emergence time on the soil mixture composed of gypsum, but a low germination percentage and the smallest seedling biomass on the other two soil mixtures. In addition, the decrease in SLA for seedlings of the basophilous group when they were cultivated on acidic soil (especially quartzite) seems to indicate a weaker functioning of the plants. Our results highlight, first, the significance of the regeneration niche in the establishment of plants in a given soil environment, especially by emphasizing the links between germination and soil chemistry, and secondly, the consideration that different germination phases add more information about the plant community assemblage with respect to the soil environment.
23064834|Many mire vascular plant and bryophyte species have disjunct occurrences in Bulgaria despite that most of south-eastern Europe is not suitable for the occurrence of permanently waterlogged and nutrient-limited wetlands due to the current and glacial dry climate conditions as well as prevailing limestone bedrock. Unfortunately, such important distributional data are scattered throughout numerous papers and reports, and are not adequately provided even by national checklists and floras. No attempt to summarize them has been done yet. Therefore, the main aim of this paper is to review and enlarge such data, and to use the resulting data set to address the question whether the disjunctly occurring rare species are concentrated in certain mire complexes or even in particular vegetation plots and if they do characterize such localities. Our current research shows that the phenomenon of isolated occurrences of mire plants in Bulgaria is even more widespread than previously thought. Seventeen species were found as new for Bulgaria with their distribution range limits there, and distributional data of many other species, including some previously considered extinct, were enlarged. Fifty-four mire species were found at only three or fewer sites. Our analyses showed a conspicuous concentration of rare, disjunctly occurring species at a few sites, which are, however, largely unexplored in terms of palaeoecology or ecology, not legally protected and currently threatened by human activities. The distributions of target rare species within Bulgarian mires were significantly nested, which means that more species-poor assemblages were subsets of richer ones. Nestedness was significantly related to the estimated area of mire complex, but not all high-diversity mires were large. Disjunctly occurring rare species were more concentrated in particular vegetation plots at lower altitudes and in mineral-rich fens. Fragmentary data about the ecology and history of Bulgarian refugial mires suggest that these mires harbour specific ecotypes and genotypes, contain specifically distributed biogeographic groups of species, provide an opportunity to test biogeographical hypotheses and shelter crucial information about the history of European mires. Thus, these sites have a potential to become a source of very important information for biogeographical, palaeoecological, and phylogeographical analyses.
25134118|The terrestrial orchid species Neotinea ustulata has recently been split into two subspecies, differing remarkably in their flowering time, but only slightly in morphological characteristics, which makes their taxonomic status uncertain. We have analyzed morphometric and genetic differences between the early- and late-flowering populations in Central Europe. Our results on morphology are ambiguous. Indirect gradient analysis has not shown a distinct separation of early- and late-flowering individuals in the ordination space. However, according to MANOVA, populations of early- and late-flowering plants can be distinguished by plant height, leaf length, numbers of basal (rosette) and stem leaves and even better by certain ratios of these numbers. All genetic analyses, on the other hand, are definite and consistently distinguish two groups. Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers have shown that the early- and late-flowering populations differ significantly from one another. Principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) based on presence/absence matrix of RAPD bands separated the two groups, implying that the difference in flowering phenology could form an effective barrier to gene exchange. Partitioning of genetic diversity in analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) has shown that the genetic divergence between the two groups, early- and late-flowering populations, is somewhat greater (33%) than the genetic variability among populations within particular group (23%). Using the Mantel test, we found that genetic differentiation coefficients between populations closely correspond to their geographic distribution. After elimination of the effect of sample origin from the model, direct gradient analysis (RDA) has shown that the early- and late-flowering groups differ significantly in their RAPD spectra. To conclude, our results indicate the presence of two genetically and phenologically distinct taxa, but the weak morphological differentiation supports the taxonomic rank of variety rather than subspecies.
4201269| The local differentiation of a model group, Galium pumilum agg., was studied in serpentine versus non-serpentine habitats in the Czech Republic and adjacent regions in Austria, Germany and Poland. Serpentine habitats form ecologically distinct islands within the landscape; local micro-evolutionary processes may be important there, both because of small population sizes and the strong selection effects of the metal-rich soils. The Galium pumilum agg. is a group of taxa showing typical karyological and ecological differentiation; the following species and cytotypes were studied: Galium pumilum Murray (2n=8x=88), G. valdepilosum Heinr. Braun (2n=2x=22, 2n=4x=44), G. sudeticum Tausch (2n=4x=44) and G. austriacum Jacq. (2n=4x=44). The karyological and taxonomic investigation showed that serpentine versus non-serpentine habitats do not play an important role in the differentiation of the species studied. (1) The examined populations of G. pumilum Murray were homogeneous in chromosome numbers, belonging to the octoploid (2n=88) cytotype only. (2) G. valdepilosum consists of two cytotypes. Both of them occur on and off serpentine sites, but they show pronounced East-West distributional difference. (3) G. sudeticum occupies special localities on serpentine in western Bohemia, which are geographically isolated from its nearest localities in the Krkonoe Mts. The plants coming from both localities belong to the tetraploid cytotype. (4) A highly polyploid plant (2n=12x=ca. 132) from the G. pumilum group was found on serpentine. From the methodological point of view, pollen size turned out to be reliable only for distinguishing octoploids from diploids and tetraploids, but it is less suitable for separating the latter two ploidy levels. The occurrence of G. austriacum is reported for the Czech Republic for the first time with certainty. This record extends the known distribution area of G. austriacum in the NW direction. 
4201385|A new classification of the genus Juncus (Juncaceae) is presented. The genus is divided into two subgenera, characterized by the presence/absence of bracteoles and the structure of inflorescence. Lower rank subdivisions, sections, generally correspond to the traditionally recognized subgenera introduced by Buchenau. A new name is introduced for what has been called subg. (sect.) Ensifolii, Juncus sect. Iridifolii. A checklist of supraspecific names in Juncus, with typification and references to the sectional names accepted, is presented in the Appendix.
23486786|In mid-latitude mountains, snowbeds often consist of small, scattered alpine belt units that host many plants of high biogeographic interest. Because most snowbed species are weak competitors, it is important to study the dissemination and persistence of their seeds to better understand their population dynamics. This study analyzed the snowed flora of the Central Pyrenees using 11 morpho-functional traits, mostly related to seed function. The seeds of most plants found in snowbeds are small or very small, they have ovoid to elliptical shapes, and have no attributes related to dispersal. When only snowbed specialists (i.e., with a phytosociological optimum in snowbed habitats) are considered, three strategy groups become apparent: i) annuals or pauciennials producing abundant small seeds prone to accumulate in the soil; ii) chamaephytes or hemicryptophytes that produce anemochorous seeds; and iii) other perennials  mainly hemicryptophytes  with no specific seed traits. In the first two groups, the extant populations are maintained either by permanent soil seed banks or by means of vegetative persistence and dispersal. The lack of specific traits in the third group suggests that these plants could be more sensitive to direct competitive exclusion from non-chionophilous species under a changing climatic scenario in which snowbeds tend to disappear.
23486814|The Irano-Turanian floristic region is a major center of endemism in the Holarctic of Eurasia. The Alborz Mountains of northern Iran are a complex and heterogeneous environmental system with rich water resources and great habitat diversity. We have investigated steppe plant communities along an altitudinal gradient ranging from approximately 1,000 m a.s.l. in the semi-desert steppes near Tehran to a height of 3,966 m a.s.l. at the summit of Mount Tochal. Our two-way indicator species analysis of 1,069 vegetation samples resulted in classification of five major vegetation zones: (1) a semi-desert Artemisia steppe near Tehran, (2) a Stipa grassland in the alluvial undulating hills north and west of Tehran, (3) a submontane and steppe zone, (4) a subalpine cushion formation zone and (5) an alpine meadow and subnival zone of Mount Tochal. Annuals and ephemerals in the semi-desert vegetation decline as altitude increases and almost disappear in the alpine zone. Past human impacts of ancient Persian civilization and a traditional pastoral economy have affected the physiognomy of plant communities; thorny dwarf shrubs now dominate the treeless vegetation of the region. Lower competition for space, different phenology and the presence of edaphic and hydrological layers associated with anthropogenic impacts are major reasons for entanglement of different plant communities in the arid- and semi-arid steppe. The phytogeography of the region changes from omni-Irano-Turanian and Saharo-Sindian transgressive species at lower altitudes to a more limited range of western Irano-Turanian species and local endemics at higher altitudes.
4201399|Bromus hordeaceus (section Bromus, Poaceae), a predominantly self-fertilizing tetraploid (2n=28), is an annual weed native to the Mediterranean Basin, which now has a world-wide distribution. High morphological variation led to the recognition of four subspecies, three of which correlated with habitat-type. We examined genetic diversity at enzyme loci in 15 populations from the Mediterranean and the Atlantic region. Although sampled over a larger range of ecological and geographical conditions, the North-African populations appeared less genetically differentiated than populations from Brittany, suggesting higher levels of gene flow among the first ones (Nm = 3.756 and 1.066 respectively). No genetic differentiation was encountered among the four subspecies. The populations were homozygous at homologous loci, suggesting high rates of selfing, but they frequently exhibited fixed intergenomic heterozygosity. The meiotic chromosome behaviour and disomic inheritance encountered are in accordance with the previously proposed allopolyploid origin of the species. The diploids B. arvensis and B. scoparius have been previously implicated in the parentage of B. hordeaceus on the basis of morphology and serology. We compared B. hordeaceus with related diploid species belonging to the same section (section Bromus) using different sources of data (flow cytometry, karyotypes, RAPD and DNA sequences). Molecular phylogeny based on internal transcribed spacer sequences of nuclear ribosomal genes provided the first clear scheme of relationships among monogenomic species of the section. A new hypothesis is proposed concerning the origin of B. hordeaceus: We found that it diverged earlier than all other species of section Bromus excluding the diploid B. caroli-henrici which is basal in this group. The 13 autapomorphies accumulated by B. hordeaceus, and the absence of intra-individual sequence heterogeneity are also consistent with the relatively ancient origin of the species within the section.
25133915|A new subspecies, A. grandiflora subsp. gomarica (Caryophyllaceae), is described from the mountains of northern Morocco. The new taxon is tetraploid and has been confused in the past either with the Balearic endemic A. grandiflora subsp. glabrescens or with the widespread A. grandiflora subsp. grandiflora, which is also present in the African continent. Detailed morphological analysis showed that plants from the Rif mountains are closely related to A. grandiflora subsp. glabrescens, but differ from it in having a longer calyx, smaller seed size, and a glandular indument on pedicels, leaves and calyx. Arenaria grandiflora subsp. gomarica can be distinguished from all infraspecific taxa of the A. grandiflora complex by the combined presence of a heterotrichous (simple and pluricellular eglandular hairs, glandular hairs) indument on the inflorescences and glandular hairs on the calyx.
4201327|Two chromosome numbers n=54, n=55 were found in Bolboschoenus plants studied from Central Europe (Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Poland) and coastal regions of Europe (the Netherlands, Sweden). The number n=55 is typical for B. maritimus subsp. maritimus with narrow fruits and mostly also for B. maritimus subsp. compactus; the number n=54 characterizes B. planiculmis auct. The morphological type of B. maritimus subsp. maritimus with wide fruits represents a stable taxon occurring in freshwater habitats throughout Europe. Its variation in chromosome numbers (both n=54, n=55) indicates a possible hybrid origin, probably resulting from hybridization between B. maritimus subsp. maritimus with narrow fruits and B. planiculmis auct. Spontaneous hybridization between Bolboschoenus taxa in the regions with mixed populations may explain the origin of the intermediate morphological and anatomical characters of plants from some localities and the deviations in chromosome numbers.
4201278| This paper reports on the results of a transect analysis carried out in order to detect small-scale patterns of Avenetum species in a limestone grassland on the Great Alvar on the Baltic island of land, Sweden. Three transects consisting of 500 10  10 cm quadrats were used. The cover and number of flowering stalks (if any) of the 21 most common species were recorded. In addition the total cover of vascular plants, cover of mosses and lichens, cover of cow dung and soil depth in each quadrat were recorded. Ellenberg indicator values for light, moisture, reaction and nitrogen were calculated for each quadrat as weighted averages of the values for the species included in the analysis. Patch size frequency analysis, PASFRAN, a new method for detecting patches and their sizes, revealed that 42% of all significant species patches detected had mean patch sizes (diameter) in the range of 26-50 cm, which matched the size of dung patches - 49 cm in transect 1 and 30 cm in transect 2. Results of association analysis revealed correlations for several species pairs and between species and environmental factors with similar patch sizes. Combination of PASFRAN and association analysis is recommended as an effective method for pattern detection. 
25133807|In 1968, the polder Zuidelijk Flevoland was reclaimed in the Netherlands. Observations on species succession were made during a period of seven years in an area later known as the nature reserve Oostvaardersplassen. Directly after reclamation, a large number of plant species were recruited. Here, only the dynamics of the three dominant species will be discussed, i.e. the annual mudflat species Senecio congestus, and the long-lived emergent macrophytes Typha latifolia and Phragmites australis. Small differences in elevation had a large impact on seedling recruitment. Overall, S. congestus dominated in the first year after reclamation, and T. latifolia prevailed during the second and third year. Thereafter, P. australis became dominant, despite fewer seedlings. In the first three years after reclamation, clones of P. australis grew very slowly, afterwards they showed a constant expansion rate of ca. 4 m/yr. However, close to pools waterfowl grazing slowed down the expansion of clones. The observed spatial and temporal variation in the colonization of this young polder area can be explained by species differences in life history traits, resource capture, as well as in the susceptibility to stem-boring insects and waterfowl grazing.
4201346| Cochlearia bavarica Vogt and C. pyrenaica DC. are closely related and highly endangered species in Bavaria (SE Germany). Cochlearia bavarica (2n=36) is a hybrid of C. pyrenaica (2n=12) and C. officinalis (2n=24) stabilized by polyploidy. Cochlearia officinalis does not occur in Bavaria. The question being addressed is whether the present non-overlapping distribution of the two Bavarian species, both of which are restricted to calcareous springs with a continuous water supply or drainage ditches, is due to competitive exclusion or to subtle differences of ecological requirements. I did not find any evidence for the second case, i.e. niche differentiation, because both species occurred in all the habitat types that I could define by floristic and ecological criteria. The population structures of both C. bavarica and C. pyrenaica vary in parallel with different habitat types. Both species have the greatest reproductive output (viable seeds) and the highest population densities in habitats with high light availability and/or low interspecific competition. Thus, I expected that one of the two species might be competitively superior over the other, but that it would fail to reach all its potential sites of occurrence. Cochlearia bavarica individuals (dry mass = 5.75 g) grow significantly larger than C. pyrenaica individuals (3.62 g; P < 0.05) and produce more, larger and heavier seeds, possibly due to hybrid vigour. Flowering individuals of C. bavarica also allocate more biomass to vegetative structures than C. pyrenaica. The analysis of population dynamics reveals a higher life expectancy and reproductive output in C. bavarica. The calculated population growth rates although negative over the observation period in both species, suggest a significantly higher fitness of C. bavarica ( = 0.66) compared with C. pyrenaica ( = 0.44). Thus, our data are in line with the competitive exclusion hypothesis and Cochlearia bavarica appears as an example of a species with hybridogenous origin possessing higher fitness than its progenitor. However, considering the rarity of both species it seems at present unlikely that the former will displace the latter over a large distributional region. 
25133978|Development and heavy metal tolerance of two cultivation lineages of the indigenous isolate of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus (AMF) Glomus intraradices PH5 were compared in a pot experiment in soil from lead (Pb) smelter waste deposits. One lineage was sub-cultured in original Pb-contaminated soil; the second one was maintained for 13 months in an inert substrate (river sand) without Pb stress. The contribution of these cultivation lineages to the Pb uptake and accumulation by the host plant Agrostis capillaris was investigated. The experiment was conducted in a compartmented system where the lateral compartments with Agrostis seedlings were separated from the central pot containing 4-week older Agrostis plants by a nylon mesh for allowing out-growing of extraradical mycelium (ERM) from the pot. No differences in mycorrhizal colonization, ERM length and viability were observed between the two lineages of G. intraradices PH5 in the soil of the isolate origin. However, the ability to support plant growth and Pb uptake differed between the lineages and also between the plants in the central pots and the lateral compartments. The growth of the plants in the central pots was positively affected by AMF inoculation. The plants inoculated with the lineage maintained in original soil showed larger shoot biomass and higher shoot P content as compared to the other inoculation treatments. The shoot Pb concentration of these plants was lower when compared to the plants inoculated with the lineage sub-cultured in the inert substrate. However the concentration did not differ from non-mycorrhizal control or from the reference isolate G. intraradices BEG75 from non-contaminated soil. Also shoot Pb contents were similar for all inoculation treatments. The development of G. intraradices BEG75 in the contaminated soil was very poor; this isolate was not able to initiate colonization of seedlings in lateral compartments. In lateral compartments, growth of seedlings in contaminated soil was inhibited by the G. intraradices PH5 lineage maintained in the inert substrate. Pb translocation from the seedling roots to shoots was increased for plants inoculated with either lineage as compared to the non-mycorrhizal control; however, the increase for the lineage cultivated in the inert substrate was significantly higher in comparison with that maintained in the original soil. After 13 months of cultivation in a metal free substrate, the G. intraradices isolate from Pb contaminated soil did not lose its tolerance to Pb as regards colonization of plant roots and growth of ERM in the soil of its origin. However, its ability to support plant growth and to prevent Pb translocation from the roots to the shoots was decreased.
23064970|The trait-based approach aims to detect functional patterns in vegetation beyond specific sites or taxa. In most cases, plant traits are assumed to be linearly related to environmental gradients such as grazing intensity. To generalize results beyond specific sites, it is important to know to which extent environment-trait relationships are non-linear. Non-linearity can be a source of inconsistency among different studies according to length and studied portion of a gradient. In this study, we test if and to what extent traits relate non-linearly to a grazing gradient using data from a grassland-matorral interface in the Mediterranean rangeland of "La Crau" (SE France). Because quantification of grazing by itinerant sheep flocks is difficult, we use a marker plant, Phillyrea angustifolia, and several independent pasture indicators to estimate grazing intensity. First, we related traits to grazing using a multivariate three-table ordination method (RLQ), which assumes linear reactions of traits. To evaluate the importance of non-linearity, we applied generalized additive models (GAMs) to our data. This revealed that a third of traits studied here showed non-linear relationships to grazing. These non-linear responses cover a large spectrum including seed mass, life form, phenology dispersal- and leaf traits. The high part of non-linear relations compromises a general assumption of linear trait-environment relationships. Future works should therefore more often consider non-linear relationships using methods with no constraints on shape of response, e.g., GAM in the analysis of functional trait studies. In this way, non-linear relationships can reveal new aspects of species and community response to global change and deepen our understanding of trait-environment relations.
25134141|Mark-recapture techniques applied to individual orchid plants and to their populations can further our understanding of the factors affecting establishment and survival. Studies need not be limited only to species at risk of extinction. Common or even introduced species may be tracked to determine which variables most impact behaviour and to develop effective conservation management techniques. Only long tracking periods are likely to intercept critical stochastic events. A 20-year study (1985-2004) of the introduced orchid, Epipactis helleborine, in Gatineau Park, Qubec, Canada, has provided insight into the behaviour of this weedy species. We have marked 1591 plants over this period, 62% of which emerged only once. High late-season rainfall had a positive effect on emergence patterns whereas spring drought had a negative impact. The annual emergent population declined from a maximum of 315 plants in 1987 to 23 plants in 2001 following a severe drought in 1991. Twenty-seven plants, all but one of which grow in the vicinity of a large tree, re-emerged after prolonged absences of 7 to 18 years. A group of 15 plants that have shown complex patterns of re-appearance over the last 10 years also encircle this tree while 8 other plants with similar patterns of re-appearance but have not been seen since 1994 were distributed elsewhere in the site. We postulate that the ecological effect of large trees may be critical to the persistence of mycorrhizal associates of both the trees and the orchids and hence contribute to the extended hypogeal survival of the orchid.
25134171|DNA ploidy level estimates are presented for 11 species and two natural hybrids of Festuca sampled from 39 locations in Romania. Altogether 48 living samples (22 of them also as one-year-old herbarium specimens) and additional 65 one-year-old herbarium specimens were analyzed using flow cytometry with DAPI staining. The following DNA ploidy levels were assessed: F. callieri (4x), F. ovina (2x), F. pallens (2x), F. polesica (2x), F. pseudodalmatica (2x, 4x, 5x), F. pseudovaginata (2x), F. pseudovina (2x), F. pseudovina  F. rupicola (4x), F. rupicola (6x), F. vaginata (2x), F. vaginata  F. valesiaca (2x), F. valesiaca (2x) and F. xanthina (2x). Festuca pseudovaginata is reported for the flora of Romania for the first time. Measurements of one-year-old herbarium specimens produced significantly smaller sample/standard ratios (P < 0.001) and higher coefficients of variance (P < 0.001) when compared with fresh plant samples. Several species exhibited marked intraspecific nuclear DNA content variability, documented by non-overlapping double-peaks or bimodal peaks in simultaneous measurements. A maximum difference of about 9.2% in relative DNA contents was observed in F. pallens, 5.5% in F. polesica, 4.2% in F. vaginata, and 3.8% in F. rupicola. Diploid F. xanhina (Festuca sect. Eskia) had 1.39-1.58 times higher monoploid relative DNA content in relation to the species of section Festuca.
25133756|Experimental data on grassland community response to exclusion of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis using fungicide benomyl and to phosphate addition were evaluated after four years of continued manipulation using multivariate direct gradient analysis. While the community responded only to phosphate application in the third year (phosphate application suppressing forbs in favour of graminoids), the data from the fourth season indicate relative suppression of some forbs (including Plantago lanceolata, Cerastium holosteoides) with both phosphate and fungicide applications. Positive response of graminoids to phosphate addition seems to interact with fungicide application, while an important community constituent - Achillea millefolium - seems to profit primarily from fungicide applications. The effect of the fungicide on the AM symbiosis was confirmed on roots of Plantago lanceolata. The direct evaluation of frequency of AM fungal structures in plant roots also revealed a diverse response of different plant species to phosphate application. Nevertheless, in all species (except non-mycorrhizal Luzula campestris), phosphate decreased the frequency of arbuscules and increased the frequency of non-infected root segments.
23064558|Analyses of the dependency of species richness (S) on area (A), the socalled species-area relationships (SARs), are widespread approaches to characterize and compare biodiversity patterns. This article highlights  with a focus on small-scale SARs of plants in continuous ecosystems  how inappropriate sampling methods or theoretical misconceptions can create artifacts and thus may lead to wrong conclusions. Most of these problems have been recognized before but continue to appear regularly in the scientific literature. The following main points are reviewed and discussed: i) Species richness values and SARs depend on the measurement method (any-part vs. grid-point system); ii) Species-richness values depend on the shape of the analyzed plots; iii) Many published SARs are not true SARs but instead represent species sampling curves or their data points consist of richness totals for incontiguous subplots; iv) Nested-plot design is the preferred sampling method for SARs (the claim that this approach would cause pseudoreplication is erroneous); v) SARs should be constructed using mean values of several counts for the smaller areas; vi) SAR functions can be fitted and selected both in the S- and the log S-space but this must be done consistently for all compared function types. It turns out that the finding of non-power function SARs in many studies is due to a lack of awareness of one or several of the named points. Thus, power-function SARs are even more widespread than a recent review would suggest. I therefore propose to use the power law as a universal model for all types of SARs but to test whether the slope z varies with spatial scale. Finally, I urge readers to be aware of the many pitfalls in SAR studies, to fully disclose methodology, and to apply a meaningful and consistent terminology, especially by restricting the terms "species-area relationship" and "species density" to situations in which each data point represents a contiguous area.
41245550|The term "competition for space" occurs often in ecological literature, but there has never been a direct demonstration of this competition. In fact it has been shown that plant canopies are mainly empty of plant organs. F. E. Clements recognized this. He suggested that one of the few situations in which competition for space would occur was in an unthinned row of radishes. Even this has never been demonstrated. We sowed radishes (Raphanus sativa) in a dense row and let them grow to maximum size in favourable conditions. For comparison, the same number of radish seeds were sown in a double, offset row. Squeezing the radish plants into one row was largely compensated by sideways movement of their hypocotyl/taproots, but total plant mass was reduced by 7.5%. Even this cannot be definitely attributed to competition for space. We conclude that competition for space, if it exists at all, is only a small effect even in conditions very favourable for it It can, as Clements said, be ignored for natural communities.
23064559|Despite widespread use of species-area relationships (SARs), dispute remains over the most representative SAR model. Using data of small-scale SARs of Estonian dry grassland communities, we address three questions: (1) Which model describes these SARs best when known artifacts are excluded? (2) How do deviating sampling procedures (marginal instead of central position of the smaller plots in relation to the largest plot; single values instead of average values; randomly located subplots instead of nested subplots) influence the properties of the SARs? (3) Are those effects likely to bias the selection of the best model? Our general dataset consisted of 16 series of nested-plots (1 cm100 m, any-part system), each of which comprised five series of subplots located in the four corners and the centre of the 100-m plot. Data for the three pairs of compared sampling designs were generated from this dataset by subsampling. Five function types (power, quadratic power, logarithmic, Michaelis-Menten, Lomolino) were fitted with non-linear regression. In some of the communities, we found extremely high species densities (including bryophytes and lichens), namely up to eight species in 1 cm and up to 140 species in 100 m, which appear to be the highest documented values on these scales. For SARs constructed from nested-plot average-value data, the regular power function generally was the best model, closely followed by the quadratic power function, while the logarithmic and Michaelis-Menten functions performed poorly throughout. However, the relative fit of the latter two models increased significantly relative to the respective best model when the single-value or random-sampling method was applied, however, the power function normally remained far superior. These results confirm the hypothesis that both singloe-value and random-sampling approaches cause artifacts by increasing stochasticity in the data, which can lead to the selection of inappropriate models.
24572015|Biodiversity of ecological communities has been examined widely. However, comparisons of observed species richness are limited because they fail to reveal what part of the differences are caused by natural variation in species pool size and what part is due to dark diversity  the absence of suitable species from a species pool. In other words, conventional biodiversity inventories do not convey information about how complete local plant communities are. We therefore propose the community completeness concept  a new perspective on the species pool framework. In order to ascertain community completeness, we need to estimate the extent of dark diversity, for which several methods are under development. We recommend the Community Completeness Index based on a log-ratio (or logistic) expression: ln(observed richness/dark diversity). This metric offers statistical advantages over other methods (e.g. the proportion of observed richness from the species pool). We discuss how community completeness can be related to long-term and successional community stability, landscape properties and disturbance patterns as well as to a variety of biotic interactions within and among trophic levels. The community completeness concept is related to but distinctive from the alpha-beta-gamma diversity approach and the community saturation phenomenon. The Community Completeness Index is a valuable metric for comparing biodiversity of different ecosystems for nature conservation. It can be used to measure the success of ecological restoration and vulnerability to invasion by alien species. In summary, community completeness is an interface between observed local observed species richness and dark diversity, which can be useful both in theoretical and applied biodiversity research.
25133952|The term "Epiphyte" has been used for a plant growing on any object, and also for any organism growing on a plant. Evidence from analogy, dictionaries, use and precedence supports the two interpretations equally. We recommend that "epiphyte" be used only for an organism growing on a plant.
4201281| Chromosome numbers of twenty taxa, almost all of them Iberian endemics, of the genera Teucrium, Sideritis, Thymus and Salvia are reported. New chromosome numbers are given for the following taxa: Teucrium homotrichum (2n=78), T. hifacense (2n=26), T. rivasii (2n=26), T. rivas-martinezii (2n=26), Sideritis edetana (2n=30), S. murgetana subsp. littoralis (2n=28), and the hybrid S. viciosoi (2n=27). The first count on Iberian material for Salvia pratensis (2n=18) is reported. Chromosome numbers have been confirmed for the rest of the taxa studied on material from SE Spain. Karyotype analyses and taxonomic remarks are included. 
25133843|Montio-Cardaminetea syntaxa occurring in the siliceous mountains of the Iberian Peninsula are reviewed. At the highest altitudes three associations are recognized in Spanish mountain ranges: one in the Pyrenees, Montio-Bryetum schleicheri (alpine-subalpine); another in the Ibero-Atlantic ranges, Stellario alsines-Saxifragetum alpigenae (oromediterranean); and a third in the Sierra Nevada, Sedo melanantheri-Saxifragetum alpigenae (oromediterranean). At slightly lower altitudes two other associations have been identified: Myosotidetum stoloniferae (supramediterranean), located in the western ranges; and Saxifragetum aquaticae (subalpine), located in the central and eastern Pyrenees. Syntaxonomically the Pyrenean associations are classified in the Cardamino-Montion alliance, the Ibero-Atlantic associations in the Myosotidion stoloniferae alliance, and the Sierra Nevada association in a hypothetical Nevadan-North African alliance. A western European framework is suggested for the Spanish mountain associations which mainly show an E-W distribution pattern.
25133992|We tested the prediction that forest habitat types with relatively high productivity are not only relatively low in species richness but are also regionally uncommon. This relationship was supported by an analysis of data from 146 forest communities in southern Ontario, Canada. Potential forest habitat productivity was determined based on a classification scheme developed for the Canadian Land Inventory (CLI) project. Vascular plant species richness approximated a unimodal distribution across forest productivity classes with the lowest mean species richness recorded for the two most productive classes. The contemporary regional commonness of forest habitat productivity classes were also displayed as a unimodal frequency distribution. Hence, mean species richness per CLI class was positively correlated with the regional area of land encompassing each of these productivity classes and this relationship was increasingly significant at increasingly larger spatial scales of regional CLI class land areas. These results are consistent with the species pool hypothesis, which postulates that species richness is relatively low in highly productive habitats because such habitats have been relatively uncommon in both space and time and hence, have had relatively little historical opportunity for the origination of adapted species.
4201348|The taxa of the Bolboschoenus maritimus group occurring in Central Europe were studied with respect to morphological differentiation, plant communities and soil conditions. Four morphological types of Bolboschoenus were distinguished, differing in habitat conditions, dispersal and distribution: type 1 - Bolboschoenus maritimus subsp. maritimus with narrow triangular fruits; type 2 - B. maritimus subsp. maritimus with wider triangular fruits, type 3 - B. maritimus subsp. compactus with round convex fruits; and type 4 - B. planiculmis auct. with concave fruits. Strong ecological differentiation of these types was found compared with relatively weak morphological diagnostic features. High discriminant efficiency appeared in the relationship to soil chemistry. Differences were also found in habitat-type spectra of individual Bolboschoenus morphological types, which was reflected in their affinities to plant communities. Nomenclature, taxonomic classification, and distribution of these taxa in Europe need thorough revision.
23064933|The Pilosella alpicola group includes four species (P. alpicola s.str., P. ullepitschii, P. rhodopea and P. serbica) with allopatric distributions (Alps, Balkans, Carpathians) and contrasting cytotype patterns (diploid, diploid-polyploid and polyploid species). Whereas diploid taxa (P. ullepitschii and P. serbica) reproduce sexually, the mode of reproduction of polyploid cytotypes reflects their origin: autopolyploids of P. rhodopea reproduce sexually, while allopolyploid cytotypes of P. alpicola s.str. apomictically. We used allozymes to elucidate overall genetic variation within the group and to test their utility for taxon discrimination, assessment of polyploid origin and possible correlations with breeding systems. Variation of five allozyme systems encoded by eight polymorphic loci and 29 alleles was studied in 20 populations and 298 plants representing all taxa. Allozymes were proved to be only of limited usefulness for the taxonomic classification within the P. alpicola group. The Western Carpathian populations of P. ullepitschii formed the only genetically well-differentiated group. The same allele suite shared by all cytotypes of P. rhodopea and presence of both balanced and unbalanced heterozygotes in tetraploids was consistent with autopolyploid origins of polyploids and provided further evidence for a primary contact zone. An isolated relic population of P. rhodopea from the Southern Carpathians exhibited lowered values of genetic diversity when compared to the core area. Pronounced fixed heterozygosity was found in P. alpicola s.str., supporting its allopolyploid origin. In accordance with assumptions, genotypic variability was significantly higher in sexually reproducing diploid and diploid-polyploid taxa than in apomictic P. alpicola s.str.
4201416|In caricature, the equilibrium paradigm of community ecology states that plant communities are stable entities consisting of competing species - and that such species coexist because each has its "niche". This paradigm, in its extreme, has been dead for some time. Nevertheless, it has yet to be replaced by a credible "non" - equilibrium paradigm. The quasi-neutral concept of plant communities, proposed by Kristjan Zobel, Folia Geobot. 36: 3-8, 2001, possesses some of the key ingredients of a nonequilibrium theory of diversity. It recognizes that there are inescapable relationships between diversity at different scales, that similarity can influence the rate of competitive exclusion, that successional change is typically associated with changes in life form, and that rarefaction (i.e. "sampling artifacts") can have strong effects on fine-scale diversity. However, the current formulation of the quasi-neutral concept is incomplete in that it relies on an unrealistic definition of community, it assumes that random sampling means that species richness at one scale will be linearly related to richness at finer scales, it ignores the possibility of fine-scale processes producing broader-scale patterns, and it avoids the subject of fine-scale environmental heterogeneity. But the most serious limitation of the quasi-neutral concept is that similarity of species alone is not sufficient to allow indefinite coexistence. I present the results of a simple simulation to demonstrate that: (1) identical species will eventually be lost from communities due to stochastic "drift", (2) slight variations in reproductive rates accelerate this loss, but (3) adding a miniscule "cost of commonness" to the model allows the indefinite coexistence of species. I conclude that the quasi-neutral model cannot work without some kind of trade-off.
23064485|The seed size and number theories have been proposed to explain the advantages of having many small versus a few large seeds in plants. In particular, seed germination is predicted to be shaped by temperature, and may differ for small and large seeds. In this study, we experimentally test germination at different temperatures in 12 species of arid zone plants in the genus Frankenia L. that differ in seed mass. Seed mass was categorized as "smaller-seeded species" versus "larger-seeded species" for analysis (six species per category). Many of these species co-occur geographically and hence experience similar abiotic conditions (unpredictable rainfall, extremes in temperature, poor soil conditions). The results demonstrated differences in germination as a result of the temperature*seed mass(species) interaction effect. There were significant differences in germination rates across seed mass categories during the first eight days of germination. Germination rates were higher in the larger-seeded species than the smaller-seeded species. Smaller-seeded species had lower germination success but had higher germination rates at lower temperatures, and had a more stringent temperature as a germination cue. These findings are discussed in the context of lifehistory strategies in arid zone plants.
25133823|A taxonomic reevaluation of two little-known Brimeura taxa, B. fontqueri (Pau) Speta and B. duvigneaudii (L. Llorens) Rossell et al., has been made. Brimeura fontqueri, described from the Iberian peninsula, has been put into synonymy of B. amethystina (L.) Salisb., since it could not be distinguished on morphological, anatomical or cytogenetic grounds. Brimeura duvigneaudii, from the Balearic Islands, is closely related to B. amethystina and has 2n=28 chromosomes. It differs from the latter by its naked bulbs lacking dark cataphylls, and its narrower leaves and whitish corollas. Accessory chromosomes are reported for the first time in the genus. Karyological instability (with chromosome numbers ranging from 2n=28 to 42) is reported for a population of B. fastigiata (Viv.) Chouard. A key to the recognized taxa of Brimeura is provided.
23064579|Our main objective was to classify vegetation and soils of wetlands in northern Tierra del Fuego (Argentina) along a latitudinal precipitation gradient within the Magellanic Steppe Zone. We presented the first detailed ecological characterization of these wetlands by relating floristic composition to local site conditions, bedrock and climate. The survey consisted of 125 phytosociological censuses and 52 soil profile descriptions. Soils were classified according to FAO, and vegetation samples were explored by applying numeric methods such as cluster analysis and indirect ordination that included a post-hoc correlation with environmental variables. Floristic composition of freshwater communities was strongly related to a latitudinal gradient, and to soil pH, base cations and C/N ratio. Most eutrophic marshes were found on organic soils situated in springs on Tertiary sediments at mid-latitudes. Most acidic marshes occurred within Pleistocene catchment areas at higher latitudes (higher precipitation). Wet grasslands on mineral soils of low C/N ratio within formerly glaciated areas at lower latitudes (lower precipitation) represented the dry end of the moisture gradient covered by this study. Saltwater communities predominated on playas of Tertiary sediments and in estuarine systems. They were characterized by alkaline soils and high Na concentrations. Magellanic wetlands form a floristic continuum from the semiarid north to the subarid south with composition not necessarily related to landscape position and soil units, but strongly related to soil variables of secondary taxonomic level. We conclude that at least at the resolution level of our study, floristic composition along the observed gradient is strongly influenced by regional climate.
4201381| Six species and subspecies of the S. nemorensis group from the Carpathians are recognized here, based on morphometric analyses (cluster and discriminant analyses). A new species S. ucranicus Hodlov and a new hybrid S. dominii Hodlov = S. germanicus Wallr.  S. ucranicus Hodlov, occurring in the East Carpathians and the eastern part of the South Carpathians, are described. The vicarious nature of S. hercynicus Herborg subsp. hercynicus, S. dacicus Hodlov et Marhold and S. ucranicus Hodlov in the Carpathians is documented. A key to the S. nemorensis group in the Carpathians as well as to S. nemorensis L. s. str. is presented. 
25134048|Cercidiphyllum japonicum Sieb. et Zucc. is found in riparian forests in Japan, but the seedlings rarely regenerate more than coexisting tree species. We investigated C. japonicum emergence and seedling survival in a nursery for 21 months. Bare soil, soil-with-litter, and gravel treatments and 3.0%, 10.9%, 22.7%, 60.1%, and 100% relative photosynthetic photon flux density (RPPFD) light conditions were tested. Seedling emergence depended on soil type and light conditions. Owing to C. japonicum's small seed size, germinated seedlings could not penetrate the litter layer and became desiccated in gravel, but most seedlings emerged and survived in bare soil. These surviving seedlings needed quite bright light to germinate but not extreme light conditions. Initial mortality was high, but most of the seedlings that survived the first three months survived for the duration of the study, even under quite dark 10% RPPFD conditions. Current-year seedlings grew poorly under bright light conditions and rarely survived under the brightest light condition, when survival was probably negatively affected by desiccation. After one year, seedlings were able to use the higher light conditions more efficiently for growth. Such seedlings probably have a high chance of survival. Under low light conditions, both current-and second-year seedlings grew poorly. However, even small seedlings are likely to survive under low light conditions in a nursery, because the seedbed is level and nursery seedlings do not face all of the threats that are present in an actual forest.
4201421|Evidence has been accumulating that species pools play a major role in regulating variations in small-scale diversity. However, our ability to unambiguously estimate and interpret species pools remains a major impediment to understanding the processes that control patterns of diversity. Two main approaches have been employed to evaluate the relationships between species pools and species diversity. The direct approach has been to estimate the actual sizes of species pools by sampling discrete areas at larger spatial scales and then relating these estimates to samples taken at smaller scales. The indirect approach has been to search for correlations between abiotic environmental factors and patterns of diversity that are indicative of gradients in species pools. Both of these approaches have substantial predictive capability but also have limitations that impair our ability to draw unambiguous interpretations about causal factors. A primary difficulty for the direct approach is in deciding which species in the larger pool of potential species are actually capable of living in a sample. In this regard, the indirect approach requires fewer assumptions and has the ability to detect previously unsuspected gradients in species pools. As with the direct approach, assessing the causes for observed gradients in species pools remains a limitation for the indirect approach. Consideration of experimental studies of potential niches suggests that it may be valuable to distinguish between potential and observed species pools if the role of competitive exclusion is to be fully assessed. This paper concludes by arguing for (1) an increased use of multivariate studies that examine the effects of species pools indirectly and (2) further experimental studies designed to determine potential species pools.
4201417| Comparison of local species richness with the size of the species pool has the potential to distinguish between niche-limited and pool-limited community structure. Prtel et al., Oikos 75: 111-117, 1997, introduced a method intended to do this. However, their method is not ecologically or statistically valid. It gives highly significant results when analyzing random data. A positive result for their test does not necessarily have the meaning that Prtel et al. believe it does, and the method tests the wrong statistical hypothesis (a significant result supports the ecological null hypothesis, it does not reject it). A more appropriate test would be to use regression of the richness/pool-size ratio on pool size. Richness/pool-size comparisons have been made across continents, habitats, sites and taxa, but it is argued that only comparisons between continents are valid, and these cannot be made because there are too few continents. Although easy to determine at the site level, on a regional scale the estimation of species pools involves too many arbitrary and subjective decisions. The species pool concept is stimulating, but it is probably operationally impossible to test. Like a wooden light bulb, it is beautiful and interesting, but of little use. 
25133787|We investigated two congeners that are biologically very similar but show differences in large- and small-scale distribution. Cirsium vulgare is a widespread species in Britain and Europe, whilst C. eriophorum is of much more restricted distribution generally restricted to soils over limestone. At the small spatial scale of tens of metres, however, C. vulgare again appears to show differences in niche occupancy, being present in agriculturally-improved grasslands where C. eriophorum is typically lacking. We investigated niche differences in the two species using field data, and also compared plant performance under a range of different experimental conditions. The results shed light on the ecology of the two species and, more widely, on the use of species' traits to make predictions about community assembly. The view that the two Cirsium species show niche differences is supported, and this is consistent with trait differences between C. eriophorum and C. vulgare. These differences are, however, only revealed by close examination. When attempting to link trait differences with differences in habitat or niche occupancy, the selection of traits for examination must be based on a detailed knowledge of the species in the field.
24572021|Recruitment limitation of trees in tropical forests can occur because of high rates of seed predation or low rates of seed dispersal, but the degree to which limitation is influenced by variation in seed predator abundance, and hence variation in seed predation and dispersal, is not well understood. We experimentally reduced the density of a granivorous small mammal (Heteromys desmarestianus) by 90 % to assess the degree to which its rates of seed predation and dispersal limit seed to seedling survival of nine species of trees in a Neotropical lowland forest. Overall, the proportion of seeds that germinated was influenced more by high rates of predation than by limited dispersal. Reduction in density of H. desmarestianus resulted in an order of magnitude decrease in fruit removal rates and an order of magnitude increase in both the absolute and relative numbers of seeds that germinated. However, the proportion of seeds that were cached remained relatively constant across all periods and between control grids and removal plots. In removal plots, H. desmarestianus dispersed and cached about 10 % of the fruits they handled, of which approximately 25 % germinated. This was 2 to 3 times greater than the germination rates of undispersed seeds, and for two species dispersed seeds were the only ones that germinated. The results suggest the simultaneous occurrence of both seed predation and dispersal limitation for trees with animal-dispersed seeds, but there may also be a hierarchy of importance in the relative strength of these two mechanisms that is determined by the dynamics of seed predator populations.
25133938|A TWINSPAN classification of a representative set of 3026 relevs of spruce and fir forests from the Eastern Alps (Austria) is presented. Ecological features of relev clusters and species groups are described by means of Ellenberg indicator values, site factors and stand characteristics. The most important floristic discontinuity in the data set separates acidophilous communities on mostly silicate substrates from basiphilous communities on mostly carbonate substrates. Further divisions reflect a combined gradient of temperature, nutrient regime and shading. This is supported by the correlation of average Ellenberg values of sample plots with DCA axes. A qualitative comparison between TWINSPAN clusters and a syntaxonomic system widely used in the Austrian Alps is drawn. The two orders Piceetalia excelsae and Athyrio-Piceetalia largely coincide with the clusters of the first level of divisions. Alliances are partly reproduced by TWINSPAN. Clusters on the fifth and fourth level of division mostly correspond to associations. However, a considerable portion of the lower level clusters is of a transitional type. Out of thirteen fir and spruce associations described for the Austrian Alps, five associations are not reproduced by TWINSPAN, i.e. Bazzanio-Piceetum, Veronico-Piceetum, Adenostylo alliariae-Abietetum, Asplenio-Piceetum and Carici-Piceetum. Three associations are split on the second level of division, i.e. Larici-Piceetum, Luzulo nemorosae-Piceetum and Calamagrostio variae-Piceetum.
25134098|Pedicularis dendrothauma is an arboreal epiphytic hemiparasite that was recently discovered in Nepal. We present results of preliminary studies on its habitat, demography, hemiparasitism, flower development, and pollination. While showing a strong preference for Abies spectabilis trunks and branches as a substrate, P. dendrothauma also grows on other species of trees and shrubs in the understorey as well as on dead wood on the forest floor, and only very rarely is rooted in soil or on rocks, rooted in a bryophyte layer. Demographic monitoring of the population in 1999 and 2001 allows us to begin to predict longevity, average size of flowering plants, and survivorship and flowering probability on different substrates. We demonstrate that individual plants of P. dendrothauma live at least four, and probably at least five years. Studies of haustoria show that the species has retained its hemiparasitic habit despite having moved from a terrestrial to an arboreal habitat. Flowering probability increases with plant size; an average flowering plant has five leaves and a longest leaf that measures 21.5 cm. Survivorship varies from substrate to substrate, with the greatest survivorship over a two year period occurring in plants growing on living trees. Flowering probability was the same for plants growing on living trees as it was for plants on dead wood. Studies of flower development suggest that plants growing high in the canopy proceeded through the stages of floral development more rapidly than plants nearer ground level. Despite many hours of field observation, the method of pollination remains a mystery; we suggest different possible pollination mechanisms.
25134014|We investigated the relationship between soil pH/calcium content and species richness of vascular plants in seven broadly defined Central European vegetation types, using Ellenberg indicator values for soil reaction and a phytosociological data set of 11,041 vegetation sample plots from the Czech Republic. The vegetation types included (A) broad-leaved deciduous forests, (B) meadows, (C) dry grasslands, (D) reed-bed and tall-sedge vegetation, (E) fens and transitional mires, (F) perennial synanthropic vegetation and (G) annual synanthropic vegetation. Relationships between local species richness (alpha diversity) and pH/calcium were positive for vegetation types A and C, negative for D and G, unimodal for E, and insignificant for B and F. Ellenberg soil reaction values explained 37% of variation in local species richness for vegetation type E, 24% for A, 13% for D, but only less than 4% for the others. Species pool size, i.e., the number of species that can potentially occur in a given habitat, was calculated for each plot using Beals index of sociological favourability applied to a large phytosociological database. For most vegetation types, the relationships between species pool size and pH/calcium were similar to the relationships between local species richness and pH/calcium, with the exception of meadows (weak unimodal) and perennial synanthropic vegetation (weak negative). These patterns suggest that for those types of Central European vegetation that developed independently of human influence in the Pleistocene or early Holocene (dry grasslands, deciduous forests), there are larger pools of calcicole than calcifuge species. This pattern is also found at the level of local species richness, where it is, however, less clearly pronounced, possibly due to the predominance of a few widespread and generalist calcifuges in acidic habitats. The unimodal pattern found in mires may result from similar underlying mechanisms, but in high pH environments mineral-rich spring waters probably decrease species richness by having toxic effects on plant growth. By contrast, vegetation types developed under direct human influence (meadows, synathropic vegetation) show weak negative or no relationships of local species richness or species pool to pH/calcium gradient. These results support the hypothesis of Prtel (Ecology 83: 2361-2366, 2002) and Ewald (Folia Geobot. 38: 357-366, 2003), that the modern calcicole/calcifuge disparity in the species pool of Central European flora has resulted from historical and evolutionary processes that took place on high pH soils. In the Pleistocene, calcareous soils dominated both the dry continental landscapes of Central Europe and glacial refugia of temperate flora, which were mostly situated in southern European mountain ranges with abundant limestone and dolomite. The negative pattern of species richness along the pH/calcium gradient found in reed-bed and tall-sedge vegetation, however, is not consistent with this historical explanation.
23064516|The taxomically critical species Centaurea stoebe is represented in Central Europe by a diploid (2n=18) and a tetraploid (2n=36) cytotype. Their morphological differentiation and taxonomic treatment is still controversial. Karyological (chromosome numbers and flow cytometric measurements) and multivariate morphometric analyses were used here to address cytotype distribution patterns and their morphological differentiation. Material from 38 localities (771 individuals) in Slovakia, Hungary and Austria, including type localities of the names traditionally applied to the different cytotypes, was sampled and evaluated using both morphometric and karyological approaches. The morphological tendency towards cytotype differentiation is evident only at a population level, and is blurred at the level of individual plants. Diploid populations prevail in the area studied, as well as throughout Europe; mixed-cytotype populations were also found. The present data, namely the weak morphological distinction, largely sympatric occurrence of the cytotypes, and the existence of mixed-cytotype populations, favour taxonomic treatment as a single species, without recognition of infraspecific units.
23064515|Repeated vegetation maps and phytosociological relevs recorded in the 1950s and again from 1984 to 2006 in a wet meadow complex near the town of Tebo, in the southern part of the Czech Republic, central Europe were compared. The following trends were evident: original vegetation zones disappeared, as well as vegetation typical of less intensively used sites, i.e., short-sedge marshes and Deschampsia cespitosa meadows. Instead, stands with Phalaris arundinacea, Urtica dioica, Elytrigia repens, and species-poor Alopecurus pratensis meadows, as well as woody species, expanded as a result of either too intensive use (cutting, manuring) or abandonment. The number of 46 meadow and marsh species recorded in 1956 in repeated relevs was reduced to one-third, while ruderal and weedy species increased from zero to 22, thus surpassing the meadow and marsh species being now more numerous than the former ones. The large degradation that started in the late 1970s continues, with there being no chance of recovery unless the present management regime stops manuring and implements appropriate regular cutting once or twice a year.
24571985|Mode of reproduction and presence of reproductive barriers were studied in two closely related members of the genus Cyanus: the C. triumfetti (diploid 2n=22) and C. montanus (tetraploid 2n=44) groups. Based on results from isolation and emasculation experiments, taxa of these groups can be considered allogamous with a low selfing rate (0.07 %0.21 % of achenes developed after selfing). Taxa of the C. triumfetti group hybridize easily and produce viable progeny. Differences in the percentage of well-developed achenes per capitulum obtained from interspecific crosses between members of the C. triumfetti group suggested different levels of reproductive isolation. The percentage of well-developed achenes of most homoploid crosses was 3.47 %8.87 %. Higher percentages of well-developed achenes were obtained from crosses between Eastern Carpathian C. pinnatifidus and Alpine C. triumfetti s. str. (18.36 %; 26.56 %) and between geographically close taxa in Central Europe (C. dominii, C. strictus and 'intermediate morphotype'; 12.75 %17.60 %), which indicate their overall close relatedness. Crossing geographically remote C. strictus and C. triumfetti s. str. yielded no or only few (0.99 %) well-developed achenes, indicating an increased degree of incompatibility in allopatry. The success of heteroploid crosses between plants belonging to different groups was reduced (2.96 %) and suggested reproductive incompatibilities between ploidy levels. The progeny of heteroploid crosses comprised 63 % of triploids of presumable hybrid origin on tetraploid as well as diploid maternal plants. Another 15.22 % of progeny had the maternal cytotype, probably resulting from selfing. Low viability of heteroploid hybrids supports the existence of post-zygotic mechanisms.
23064947|The interaction between parasitic plants and their hosts is an important topic in both agriculture and ecology. Little, however, is known about that of the hemiparasite Pedicularis. It is essential to understand the host dependence and preference of Pedicularis for successful cultivation of plants in this genus and for understanding the roles they play in natural communities. We tested the effects of two herbaceous host species (Trifolium repens and Polypogon monspeliensis) on the survival and growth performance of Pedicularis cephalantha. Five P. cephalantha seedlings and two host plants were planted in each pot. In the control, no host plants were planted (treatment 1). Host plants were planted in three combinations: only T. repens (treatment 2) or P. monspeliensis (treatment 3) or a mixture of both (treatment 4). The results showed that P. cephalantha performed better in the presence of host plants, and host plants are more essential to P. cephalantha for proper development than for survival. The grass host P. monspeliensis proved to be a better host plant for P. cephalantha than the legume host T. repens. The high dependence of P. cephalantha on host plants and its host preference were demonstrated in this study. This is the first report of the performance of Chinese Pedicularis species in cultivation throughout all life stages (from seeds to seeds).
23486777|The increasing importance of the conservation value of managed grasslands has led to many studies exploring edaphic determinants of grassland biodiversity. Most studies, however, come either from very large areas, where biogeographical factors such as dispersal limitation may play a role, or from small, but ecologically rather uniform, regions. In addition, few studies further distinguish between plant specialists and generalists in the interpretation of the observed patterns. Here we studied species richness in semi-natural, managed grasslands in the Strovsk vrchy Mountains in the West Carpathians, Slovakia, where there is a matrix of different bedrocks (crystalline, sandstone, claystone, limestone) on a steep altitudinal gradient. In 89 vegetation plots we sampled the species composition of vascular plants and bryophytes and measured soil chemistry, slope angle, heat index, altitude and soil depth. We further applied Ellenberg indicator values and classified species into community specialists or generalists based on the analysis of a large phytosociological database. Using cluster analysis, we delimited five vegetation types that clearly differed in response to soil characteristics. Species richness varied between 19 and 64 species per 16 m 2 . The main compositional gradient correlated with measured soil pH and calcium, but species richness was not significantly correlated with these factors. Soil available phosphorus was not associated with species composition as has been found elsewhere, but it did correlate negatively with species richness and the richness of specialists. Overall, species richness was largely driven by the number of specialists in the plot and particular vegetation types differed conspicuously in their number. We further found significant effects of iron, potassium and sodium on species richness, species composition and the representation of specialists and generalists. Our results provide new insights into the determinants of diversity in managed grasslands as well as to the theoretical species pool concept, explaining species richness variation along a pH gradient.
25133942|An overview of the montane and subalpine forests of Abies lasiocarpa, Picea engelmannii, Abies amabilis and Tsuga mertensiana of northwestern North America is provided based on 541 relevs of forest vegetation from coastal and inland British Columbia, Washington and northwestern Montana. A new classification is proposed based on an examination of the floristic patterns across these communities. Owing to their broadscale floristic similarities, coastal subalpine Abies amabilis-Tsuga mertensiana forests and inland forests of Abies lasiocarpa, Picea engelmannii, P. glauca, Thuja plicata and Tsuga heterophylla are combined into a single order, Thujetalia plicatae. The floristic patterns within this order in turn support the recognition of four alliances. These are (1) Tsugion mertensianae, including coastal and inland subalpine forests of Tsuga mertensiana, Abies amabilis, A. lasiocarpa and Picea engelmannii, with deep winter snowpacks and an often luxuriously developed shrub layer; (2) Abieti-Tsugion heterophyllae all. nov., including mesic inland montane Thuja plicata-Tsuga heterophylla and Abies lasiocarpa-Picea engelmannii forests and related southern boreal Abies lasiocarpa-Picea glauca communities; (3) Gymnocarpio-Abietion lasiocarpae, including moist coastal and inland forests dominated by a fern-rich understory and Oplopanax horridus; and (4) Lysichito-Chamaecyparidion nootkatensis, which includes wet coastal subalpine forests with Lysichiton americanum. A total of five new associations are described, bringing the number of recognized associations within the order to twenty-five. An extensive synonymy and crosswalk to other classification systems is provided.
25134121|Original meiotic chromosome counts are presented for nine endemic species in seven families of Angiosperms from Iran including: Arum giganteum Ghahr. (Araceae) (n=14), Caccinia actinobole Bunge (Boraginaceae) (n=8), Delphinium aquilegifolium (Boiss.) Bornm. (Ranunculaceae) (n=8), Diplotaenia damavandica Mozaff., Hedge et Lamond (Apiaceae) (n=11), Gypsophila caricifolia Boiss. (Caryophyllaceae) (n=17), Iphiona arachnoidea (Boiss.) Anderb. (Asteraceae) (n=9), Moltkia gypsacea Rech. f. et Aellen (Boraginaceae) (n=20), Onobrychis gaubae Bornm. (Fabaceae) (n=8) and Onosma platyphyllum Riedl (Boraginaceae) (n=9). Eight counts are reported for the first time. Furthermore, the previous chromosome count for Iphiona aracnoidea is corrected. Based on cytological data the species status of Moltkia gypsacea is confirmed; it is not merely synonymous with M. coerulea (Willd.) Lehm. The basic chromosome number n=11 is reported in the genus Diplotaenia for the first time.
25134104|Parasitic plants can significantly influence the species to which they attach. The host response is variable however, and ranges from death of the host to no detectable effects in terms of both growth and physiology. The parasite can directly influence its hosts through resource abstraction, and indirectly by influencing inter- and intra-specific interactions. Abiotic factors interact with these direct and indirect effects to moderate the potential outcome of the host parasite interaction. This paper sets out to review a series of experiments that have been undertaken in our laboratory over a number of years that examine these effects and help us to understand mechanisms underpinning the variability in host response.
23064985|Over the last 20 years, the species assemblage of the species-rich dry grassland communities of central Germany has changed due to the ongoing abandonment of traditional land-use practices. In our study we wanted to investigate the germination biology and the plant-plant interaction of the low-growing and declining forb Alyssum montanum and the increasingly dominant grass Festuca rupicola. To investigate the germination behaviour we simulated cold (8/4C), warm (20/10C) and hot (32/20C) conditions under a light-dark regime (12/12 hours) as well as in constant darkness. Germination of both species was similar with almost all non-dormant seeds germinating under intermediate temperature conditions (20/10C). Whereas F. rupicola (F) germinated equally well under light changing conditions and constant darkness, the germination of A. montanum (A) was clearly reduced in darkness, which implies a strong competitive advantage of F. rupicola in dense vegetation cover. However, A. montanum germinated early under all temperatures regimes and better under 20/10C as well as with light changing conditions. The interactions between the two species were tested in a pod-experiment with a replacement design, within which the composition of individuals was changed in the following way: 4A/1F, 3A/2F, 2A/3F, 1A/4F (eight replications per each). To evaluate any influence of interspecific competition we created monocultures in an additive design (1A, 2A, 3A, 4A, 5A, 1F, 5F; eight replications per each). Despite that A. montanum developed faster and flowered after only four months in the replacement design experiment, the herb responded negatively to the presence of F. rupicola in several parameters (number of flowers, number of fruits and biomass per individual). The calculation of the Relative Neighbour Effect (RNE) indicated facilitation for F. rupicola and competition on A. montanum, which increased with increasing number of individuals of the other species. Our data suggest that A. montanum seedling recruitment, growth and fitness are negatively affected by increasing vegetation density of the expanding grass species F. rupicola.
25133824| A new species, Taraxacum siphonanthum X.D. Sun, Ge Xuejun, Kirschner & tpnek is described from Nei Mongol, NE China. The species is intermediate between sections Mongolica and Borealia, although in most characters it is closer to the former. It is an apomictic species with tubular florets; these and other similar characters in Taraxacum are discussed. 
4201349|This paper deals with the syntaxonomy of the class Thero-Salicornietea in the Iberian Peninsula, falling particularly upon the significance that taxonomy of the genera Salicornia and Suaeda has on it. Three alliances were differentiated, two Atlantic and one Mediterranean. The Atlantic ones were Salicornion dolichostachyo-fragilis, with four associations grouping slikke communities with tetraploid glasswort (Salicornia) species, and Salicornion europaeo-ramosissimae, with three associations of schorre with generally diploid glasswort species. The Mediterranean alliance Salicornion patulae had six associations distributed both in coastal (southern and eastern coasts) and inland salt marshes. A complete syntaxonomy of the class, maps of the distribution of its associations and tables summarizing their floristic composition are also provided.
25133783|Under dry environmental conditions the sex ratio of many dioecious plants is male-biased, which is usually explained by the higher susceptibility of females to drought stress. We investigated if spatio-temporal variation in the sex ratio of Silene otites could be explained by the higher sensitivity of female plants to drought stress as compared to males. Long-term field observations, however, did not support this hypothesis. The sex ratio in 34 patches at the study site in Central Germany changed from slightly female biased in 1994 to strongly male-biased in 1997 and 1998. The interannual change in the proportion of plants that were female was positively correlated with the number of days with soil-water deficit in the late summer, suggesting higher mortality in males than in females under drought stress. In two closely studied patches, mortality in males was also higher than in females, although this difference could not be related to drought stress. These field observations were supported by an experiment with potted plants in two climate chambers, in which male mortality was higher during a three-week period without water supply. We conclude that the often reported male bias in patches of S. otites is not caused by sexual differences in the sensitivity to drought stress. Field data in this study, however, suggest that male S. otites plants flower earlier than females, which causes a shift in sex ratio to more male bias among flowering plants.
4201305|An account of the taxonomy of the genus Potamogeton L. with special reference to species description and delimitation is presented. A key to the species is given, based as far as possible on vegetative characters. Detailed descriptions are provided for a total of 69 species which are regarded as sufficiently well known. Special emphasis is laid both on a complete list of relevant characters as well as on the judgement of their respective diagnostic values. All important synonyms are listed allowing direct access to most of the relevant taxonomic and floristic Potamogeton literature. 50 confirmed hybrids are listed and assigned to their putative parent species. Questions with respect to the taxa listed are formulated in notes on each of the species. A more general view and questions on future Potamogeton research are summarized in the conclusions.
25134105|We made a comparison between life history and reproductive characteristics of a group of Dutch rare (30) and common (105) plant species, all dicotyledonous and insect-visited forbs. The traits life span, clonality, breeding system, seed production, seed dispersal, and soil seed bank longevity are considered. All trait values have been ranked according to their possible effect on the vulnerability of a species for extinction, where low values indicate a low risk and high values a high risk for a species. Rare and common plants differed significantly in four traits: seed production, breeding system, seed bank longevity and clonality. The discriminant analysis showed that 79% of the 135 species was correctly classified in the group they presently belong to. Especially species that are rare now but were much more common 50-100 years ago were classified as being common species, pointing at the detrimental effect of habitat loss these species encountered at which they have not yet been able to adapted to. The data set included eight hemiparasitic plant species (family Orobanchaceae), of which six are endangered in The Netherlands and two more common. Both rare and common hemiparasites scored high traits values, indicating that they are vulnerable for extinction. The hemiparasites had several characteristics in common: they are all annuals or biennials that have no means of clonal reproduction. They all have non-clustered, zygomorphic flowers that produce nectar and have a precise pollen presentation and are mainly visited by (bumble) bees. Mean life span was significantly shorter in the eight hemiparasitic Orobanchaceae than in the non-hemiparasitic Scrophulariaceae used for comparison (4 species). Overall, we concluded that hemiparasitic plants have a special combination of life history traits which makes them vulnerable for local and regional extinction.
41245511|From a strictly statistical perspective, most of the commonly used statistical tests cannot be performed on vegetation data obtained using a non-random sampling design. Despite this, non-randomly sampled plots such as phytosociological relevs still make sense: because they may focus on objectives not appropriately addressed by random sampling, such as the study of rare plant communities or species; and because random sampling is often more time-demanding and expensive. Considering the huge body of phytosociological data available, an interesting question arises: if we compare randomly and non-randomly sampled data sets, to what extent do the results of our analyses differ with respect to various species and vegetation parameters? We present an attempt to tackle this question by comparing two data sets collected in a 25 km area close to the city of Bremen, northwestern Germany: the first data set consisted of 30 subjectively (non-randomly) placed, homogeneous plots across different plant communities, each of which was laid out in a nested design including 9 sizes from 0.5 m to 1,000 m. The second data set consisted of 30 (again nested) plots randomly selected and located with a GPS device; plots were rejected only if they for some reason were inaccessible. The data collection was the same for both data sets: presence-absence of all vascular plants was recorded for the different plot sizes, and soil samples were collected for the determination of the values of some important environmental variables. For the comparison of the two data sets, we used either the complete data sets or sub-sets of those plots located in woodlands. The main results included the following: (1) Species abundance patterns: Random sampling resulted in a larger number of common and a smaller number of rare species than non-random sampling. (2) Species richness at different spatial scales: For the small plot sizes, the number of species in the non-randomly placed plots was higher than in the randomly placed plots, while the differences were less pronounced at larger spatial scales. As a consequence, also the parameters of species-area curves differed between the data sets, especially in the sub-set including woodland plots. (3) Vegetation differentiation: In random sampling, there was considerable redundancy, i.e., there were several plots with high floristic similarity. (4) Vegetation-environment relationships: The ordination scores of the non-randomly placed plots showed a larger number of significant correlations to soil parameters than the scores of randomly placed plots. The results suggest that conclusions drawn from the analysis of non-randomly placed plots such as phytosociological relevs may be biased, especially regarding estimates of species abundance and species richness patterns.
4201361| This paper presents a systematic review of Spanish high mountain soft water communities based on 46 phytosociological relevs. Using a numerical analysis with ordination (correspondence analysis - CA) and classification (Jaccard index and complete-linkage clustering) three groups corresponding to the phytosociological associations Isoeto lacustris-Sparganietum borderei, Sparganio angustifolii-Isoetetum echinospori and Sparganio angustifolii-Callitrichetum font-queri have been defined. Spanish Littorellion communities are characterized by boreal-alpine and endemic elements. The boreal-alpine elements probably spread via the Pyrenees-Iberian System through to the mountains of the western peninsula during a cold period, thus sharing the habitat with the Ibero-Atlantic flora which was able to adapt to the changing climatic conditions. 
23486810|Construction of potential natural vegetation (PNV) poses particular challenges in landscapes heavily altered by human activity and must be based on transparent, repeatable methods. We integrated the concept of ancient forest (AF) and ancient forest species (AFS) into a four-step procedure of PNV mapping: 1) classification of forest vegetation relevs; 2) selection of those vegetation types that can serve as PNV units, based on AF and AFS; 3) merging of selected vegetation types into five PNV units that can be predicted from a digital morphogenetic soil map; 4) mapping of three additional PNV units based on additional environmental data. The second step, concerning the selection of reference forest vegetation, is of particular interest for PNV construction in Flanders (northern Belgium), where forest cover has been subject to temporal disruption and spatial fragmentation. Among the variety of extant forest recovery states, we chose as PNV units those vegetation types for which a high proportion of relevs had been located in AF and that contained many AFS. As the frequency of AFS depends on site conditions, we only compared and selected vegetation types that are found on similar sites according to average Ellenberg indicator values. While succession is irrelevant for the definition of PNV, colonization rates of AFS can be used to estimate the time required for PNV to be restored in a site.
23264879|The actual state of neophyte invasion in Moldavia (Eastern Romania) is described in this paper on the basis of 11,055 phytosociological relevs. We analyzed the i) proportion of relevs with neophytes, ii) mean proportion of neophytes per relevs, and iii) mean coverage of neophytes per relev for 36 EUNIS habitat types to identify general plant invasion patterns. The level of invasion differed considerably between habitats. The invasion of neophytes especially affected habitats strongly determined or influenced by man, such as anthropogenic woodlands, ruderal habitats, arable lands or trampled areas. Most natural habitats are either slightly invaded or entirely free of neophytes. Only riverine willow stands and wet tall-herb stands are relatively highly invaded. However, the absence of neophytes in some natural habitats less represented in the phytosociological dataset could be of artifactual nature. No significant relationship between the number of neophytes and non-neophytes was found in the analysis across different habitats. When the analyses were made within-habitats, both negative and positive relationships were found, which confirm that the relationship between alien and native species richness depends on the habitats. A total number of 105 neophyte species were recorded in the phytosociological relevs used in this study. Among these, 13 species that are currently considered invasive in Moldavia occur in at least 10 types of habitats.
23064498|Germination of three closely related species from the Myosotis palustris group (M. nemorosa, M. palustris subsp. laxiflora, M. caespitosa) differing in their habitats and capacity for clonal growth, was compared in two greenhouse experiments. To evaluate both inter- and intraspecific variation, each species was represented by seeds from several populations. Final germination percentage and germination rates T were compared both between species and populations within species. In the first experiment, we studied the influence of two external factors, moisture and light. Four moisture levels (dry, wet, periodically flooded and permanently flooded soil) and three types of shading (without shading, shaded with green foil, shaded with solid paper sheet) were combined in a complete factorial design. In all three species, total germination percentage was the same in the three wettest treatments, and decreased in the dry treatment. Germination in the treatments shaded with green foil (simulating vegetation cover, which changed light quality) was significantly slower than in treatments without shading and treatments shaded with a solid paper sheet. There were significant differences among species, but we also found very pronounced differences among populations within a species. M. caespitosa had the uniformly highest germination percentage (reaching in some cases 100%) and also fastest germination. Germination of M. palustris subsp. laxiflora populations was slower and reached lower final proportions, and medium variability among populations. Inter-population variability in the final germination percentage was highest, and the final germination the lowest in M. nemorosa. In addition, M. nemorosa, a species typical for permanent meadow communities was delayed by permanent flooding. In the second experiment, we studied the effects of seed age and storage conditions. Three combinations of seed age and storage were used: younger seeds (half year old) with no-chilling, younger seeds with chilling and old seeds (three years old) with chilling. M. caespitosa had again the highest final germination percentage and fastest germination rates T. In addition, final germination percentage of this species slightly increased with seed age, whereas it decreased in the other two species. The germination behaviour corresponded well to expectation based on species life histories and habitat preferences. Remarkably stable and high germination percentages and fastest germination rates T were ascertained in M. caespitosa, a species of disturbed habitats, with lowest capacity for clonal spread. M. palustris subsp. laxiflora (species with highest clonal capacity) and M. nemorosa (species with medium clonal potential) achieved lower, but still very high final germination percentage. In addition, M. nemorosa showed the highest inter-populations variability in our experiments.
25134113|A small eruption occurred in the early spring of 1996 on the summit of Mount Koma, northern Japan, 67 years after the 1929 catastrophic eruption. To identify damage on the plant communities and recovery patterns, we established 400 50  50 cm permanent plots in four locations along the gradient of the thickness of tephra produced in 1996: non-disturbed (N), weakly disturbed (W), middle disturbed (M), and heavily disturbed (H). Annual monitoring was conducted from 1996 to 2001. Gullies and rills formed in M and H, indicating that the ground surface movements were more intense there. Mean vascular plant species richness increased from H to N, but did not increase from 1996 to 2001 in any location. In an area where tephra thickness was 10 cm, the recovery was mostly conducted by the species that could have survived during the eruption. A shrub, Salix reinii, was the leading species in most sites throughout most years. Large perennial herbs, Polygonum weyrichii, P. sachalinense and Miscanthus sinensis were common in the disturbed areas, in particular in M and H. Those three species develop large underground organs and enlarge clonally, suggesting that the tolerance to ground surface stability is the most important trait for the recovery of those species. Carex oxyandra established not only by vegetative regeneration but also by seedling regeneration. A short forb, Campanula lasiocarpa, could establish only in W by seedling regeneration. Mosses and lichens were predominant in plots in N and W, but less represented and not greatly increasing their cover in M and H up to 2001. We concluded that the community recovery was delayed in all the disturbed areas, mostly due to low seedling establishment. Only a few specific species established by vegetative reproduction. Disturbance gradients such as thickness of tephra and/or ground surface stability have determined plant community structure and development.
41245549|Chromosome numbers and /or ploidy levels are reported for 44 species and subspecies of Hieracium s. str. from the following European countries: Andorra, Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, France, Italy, Montenegro, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Ukraine. The chromosome numbers/DNA ploidy levels of H. bocconei (2n ~ 4x), H. bupleuroides subsp. leviceps (2n = 27), H. caesioides subsp. caesioides (2n = 27), H. basifolium (H. caesium agg., 2n = 36), H. plumbeum (H. caesium agg., 2n = 36), H. glaucum subsp. nipholepium (2n = 27), H. gouanii (2n = 18), H. gymnocerinthe (2n = 27), H. ramondii (2n = 27), H. recoderi (2n = 18), H. stelligerum (2n = 18), and H. tomentosum (2n = 18, 2n ~ 2x, 2n ~ 3x) were determined for the first time. New ploidy levels are reported for H. cerinthoides s. str. (2n = 27), H. humile (2n = 36), and H. tommasinianum (2n = 27).
25133875|How canopy gaps promote tree species coexistence in temperate and tropical forests is reviewed. Given that evidence for traditional resource-based niche partitioning of canopy gaps is weak, lottery recruitment, whereby colonization of vacant living space is random with respect to species identity, may be key to maintaining diversity. Gap formation events are not highly predictable and species' propagules tend to be patchily distributed. For these reasons the predictability of gap-phase recruitment is low and lottery principles apply. Recruitment limitation from discontinuities in species' propagule supplies in space and time may permit lottery recruitment in temperate and tropical forests. However, the relative importance of recruitment limitation in species-rich versus species-poor communities is unclear. Although lottery models with purely random recruitment in vacant sites can be applied, relatively complex models appear to better capture the essential features of forest community dynamics. For example, models with recruitment probabilities weighted by species abundance can produce the non-random trajectories often observed in communities. Models with local competitive displacement by individuals of dominant species can also produce non-random trajectories. Models with spatial structure, localized competition, and dispersal limitations may provide further insight into the effects of biotic interactions and recruitment limitation on forest dynamics.
4201357| Halimium halimifolium (L.) Willk. is a woody Cistaceae species occurring locally in the Western Mediterranean. At the Doana National Park (S Atlantic coast of Spain), Halimium halimifolium is the main component of stable sand vegetation. It grows in a range of environmental conditions from flood-prone depressions to mobile dunes, but it is most abundant, and dominates the scrub composition on the slopes of fixed dune ridges with a water table depth of 2 to 4 m. The species exhibits not only morphological modifications (hairy leaves and twigs), but also structural and ecophysiological adaptations. The response of H. halimifolium to stress conditions (leaf water potential, leaf diffusion resistance, and plant growth) have been studied in the field, throughout an annual cycle in four populations growing in different environments, three dune types differing in soil moisture, and one dune slack. Results showed that plants from the hygrophytic area (MN) had the less negative water potentials, the lowest stomatal resistances and the biggest vegetative growth, together with the highest Leaf Area Index, canopy light extinction, the largest leaf area and the lowest sclerophyll index. Plants from the most xerophytic area (MB) had the lowest Leaf Area Index, the smallest leaf area and the highest sclerophyll index. Even though in dune slopes (MI) water table was shallower than in MB, plants in the latter had more negative water potentials and bigger vegetative growth. Water potential values only exhibited significant differences among the four populations at the end of the spring period and over the summer. These results are discussed in relation to the climatic conditions of the study period (3 years of a drought cycle). Plants from the mobile dune system showed features which were intermediate between MN and MI plants. 
4201309|The paper is a reply to Dickinson (see this volume). Criteria of easy recognizability and multiclonality for an agamospermous species are shown to be very dependent on the individual ability of a student and on the particular case of an apomict. Examples are given of extreme cases of uniclonal and multiclonal agamospermous species in Taraxacum. Use of a section as a category comparable with a sexual species is discussed; blurred limits of sections in hybridogenous groups are pointed out. Acceptance of agamospermous species is advocated as a means how to maximize the information content of the classification.
23064569|This study examined the main changes in the herbaceous communities during the first four years of succession in a large landslide on Casita Volcano, Nicaragua, located in a densely populated area that has a tropical dry climate. Our main objective was to determine the major pathways of change in community features, such as richness, biovolume, species composition, and abundances of plant traits and to verify if they varied between the different landslide areas based on abiotic heterogeneity and landscape context. Number, percent cover, mean height and traits of herbaceous species, and several abiotic factors related to fertility and geomorphological stability of substrates were sampled in 28 permanent plots. Environmental heterogeneity strongly influenced early successional changes in the herbaceous communities during the four years of the study. Biovolume increased in the unstable and infertile areas and decreased in the stable and fertile landslide areas. In most zones, species richness decreased significantly because of the expansion of a few dominant species that developed a large cover and excluded other species. Those dominant species were mainly responsible for changes in species composition and included annual forbs, e.g., Calopogonium mucunoides and Stizolobium pruriens, graminoids that have rhizomes or stolons, e.g., Hyparrhenia rufa, and perennial nitrogen-fixing forbs, e.g., Clitoria ternatea. They might be important in determining future successional patterns on the Casita Volcano landslide.
25133983|The objective of this study was to investigate the response of plant species used for reclamation of eroded areas in Iceland to inoculation with mycorrhizal fungi. In a greenhouse trial, Leymus arenarius and Deschampsia beringensis were grown in pots with volcanic ash collected from a site near the Mt. Hekla volcano in Iceland and were inoculated with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) isolates Glomus mosseae BEG25 or Glomus intraradices BEG75. In two field experiments conducted on volcanic tephra fields near Mt. Hekla, a native soil inoculum or commercial inocula TerraVital-D and Terra Vital-G Ecto Mix were compared for efficacy on L. arenarius and Betula pubescens. After four months of growth, the presence of AMF in the pot experiment significantly increased the capacity of grass root systems to bind soil particles. In the field, inoculation significantly increased the number of L. arenarius plants, which emerged from seed and their subsequent survival and growth. Seedlings of B. pubescens grew best following inoculation with ectomycorrhizal fungal (ECMF) inoculum and a subsequent application of inorganic NP-fertilizer. The addition of native soil inoculum had almost no effect on growth of either grass or trees. Our results indicate that reclamation of eroded areas in Iceland could benefit from the use of appropriate mycorrhizal fungi, which might improve plant establishment and growth and increase soil aggregation and stability.
25134033|The frequent occurrence of sympatric series of closely related plant species in tropical rainforests has evoked claims for and against the application of the competitive exclusion principle in these ecosystems. Narrow niche limits defined by biotic as well as abiotic specialization have been reported for sympatric species of the same genus or family. In Amazonian lowland rainforests this question deserves renewed attention because: (1) the existence of edaphically defined community types has recently been well established, and (2) spatio-ecological niche segregation of congeneric species may help explain not only the maintenance of the high Amazonian alpha-diversity, but also its origin through sympatric ecological speciation. In this study, the morphology, ecology, and distribution patterns of two species, Clidemia epiphytica and C. longifolia (Melastomataceae), from western Amazonia, were analyzed. The aims were to find out whether they really are two distinct taxonomic species and if so, whether they also can be considered biological species; if the species are sympatric; and if they are ecologically specialized. The results showed that the morphological variation of the species seems continuous, but that they exhibit opposite morphological responses to variation in soil cation concentration, which suggests that they also are separate biological species. Furthermore, the species occur sympatrically but in different habitats. It is suggested that a part of the enigma of sympatric congeners in rainforests may be explainable by spatial segregation stemming from ecological specialization in relation to subtle environmental variation. It is hypothesized that the studied species are a good candidate case of sympatric speciation driven by ecological specialization.
23064588|In a secondary successional community, we focused on the role of local dispersion mediated by clonal growth in the density and spatial patterning of tillers of three dominant grass species (Elymus repens, Brachypodium pinnatum and Calamagrostis epigejos) on the plant neighbourhood scale. We also asked whether the spatial pattern/density of their tillers were linked to the local diversity structure. In ten 75 cm75 cm quadrats for each of the three species, we quantified i) the clonal morphology patterns from measuring spacer length, branching rate and the number of clumping tillers per module, ii) the spatial patterns and density of tillers in grids at four different resolutions (cell sizes varied between 1 cm1 cm; 2.5 cm2.5 cm; 5 cm5 cm and 7.5 cm7.5 cm), and iii) local species richness and local dominance based on botanical relevs. Then, we explored the relationships between iv) the clonal architecture pattern and the density/spatial pattern of tillers and v) the density/spatial pattern of tillers and local diversity variables, through regression analyses. Aggregation intensity on the smallest scales and tiller density were negatively linked to spacer length and positively linked to branching rate and number of clumping tillers. Species richness and dominance in quadrats were negatively and positively linked to tiller density, respectively. Dominance was positively linked to aggregation intensity on a 1-cm scale. This study emphasized and quantified the importance of clonal growth in the intensity and quality of grass tiller patterning in space on the plant neighbourhood scale. Our approach allowed the accurate positioning of species, or even clones on the phalanx-guerrilla continuum. This should help us to understand how dominant grass species affect the dynamics of stand communities.
4201351|We investigated the ecological behaviour (the response to environmental factors in the field, synonymous to the term realized niche) of four closely related species pairs (Melica nutans, M. uniflora; Primula veris, P. elatior; Veronica chamaedrys, V. montana; Viola riviniana, V. reichenbachiana) across a transect from northern Central to North Europe. The second-mentioned species of each pair is confined in its geographical distribution to the southern parts of the studied transect. Sample plot data of deciduous forests were compiled from (1) Germany, S Niedersachsen, (2) Germany, northern Schleswig-Holstein, (3) Denmark, and (4) Boreo-nemoral Sweden. We compared the ecological optima and amplitudes of the response curves of species along the gradients for moisture, pH and nitrogen by means of phytosociological data, detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and Ellenberg indicator values. pH measurements from Sweden were significantly correlated with the corresponding DCA sample plot scores and the plot averages of the Ellenberg values for reaction (pH). In accordance with our main hypothesis, the wide range species appeared to have broader ecological amplitudes on the northern margins of their distributional ranges, especially in Boreo-nemoral Sweden, than in the southern parts of the study area. Our findings are in contrast to theories claiming a reduced niche breadth of range-margin populations of species compared to range-centre populations. The shifts in ecological behaviour were particularly obvious with respect to soil acidity. We believe that these shifts are caused by changes in the competitive relationships between the species: in the north, the total pool of species in deciduous forests is comparatively small. The low species richness is likely to lead to reduced competition and to an expansion of the ecological amplitude, known as competitive release.
25133845|The ploidy level of plants of the Vaccinium sect. Oxycoccus (Hill) W.D.J. Koch sampled in the Czech Republic, Germany, Austria and Poland was determined by chromosome counting and/or by flow cytometry. Forty-five characters were measured and scored in the morphometric analysis. Principal component analysis, cluster analysis, canonical discriminant analysis and classificatory discriminant analysis were used in the statistical analyses. Diploid (2n=24), tetraploid (2n=48) and hexaploid (2n=72) populations were confirmed and a new ploidy level - pentaploid hybrid plants (2n=60) - was revealed. Results of the multivariate morphometric analysis support the separation of the two native species. Diploid V. microcarpum (Turcz. ex Rupr.) Schmalh. differs from the polyploids by smaller size of petals, shorter style and stamens (stamens have long filaments and short anthers), glabrous pedicels, mostly solitary flowers, earlier flowering and by occurrence predominantly in Polytrichum strictum tufts. The low taxonomic significance of some features often used in keys for their separation (shape of fruits, insertion of prophylla, pubescence of filaments) was confirmed. V. oxycoccos L. includes three ploidy levels. The hexaploids represent the most abundant ploidy level in the area studied. They show a slightly bigger size of petals, longer bracts, prophylla, style, sepal tips and wider seeds in comparison with the tetraploids. Pentaploid cranberries are hitherto known only from the Czech Republic. They differ particularly in the low proportion of fully-developed tetrads.
23264875|We explored patterns of plant species richness and composition along an elevational gradient (4,9855,685 m a.s.l.) on Buddha Mountain, 100 km northwest of Lhasa, Tibet. We recorded the presence of plants and lichens in 1-m 2 quadrats separated by 25-m elevational intervals (174 quadrats in 29 elevational bands) along a vertical transect with a SE aspect. We recorded 143 total species, including 107 angiosperms, 2 gymnosperms, 27 lichens, and 7 mosses. We measured stone cover in each quadrat, and soil pH, C, N and C/N ratio from two randomly located samples collected from 10-cm depth within each band. C, N and C/N decreased with elevation, stoniness increased and soil pH did not change with altitude. We employed detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and generalized linear models (GLMs) to assess the relationships of species richness and species composition to the environment. The first two axes of the CCA biplot explained 87.7% of total variation in the species-environment relationship, and 27.7% of total variance of species data. The first CCA axis is associated with elevation, while the second axis is related to soil pH and stone cover. We also compared patterns in species richness against expectations from species pools interpolated from the literature. Total species richness was relatively constant between 4,985 and 5,400 m a.s.l. and declined continuously above 5,400 m a.s.l. Similar declining patterns were observed for forbs and graminoids. Cushion plants and lichens abundance exhibited a unimodal relationship with altitude while shrubs declined monotonically. Except for lichens, models derived from our observations and the literature were quite similar in shape. The proportion of the species pool represented in each elevational band increased as a function of elevation for non-vascular plants, but decreased markedly for vascular plants. Thus, vascular plants are more likely to be constrained by dispersal at higher elevations, resulting in more local endemism, while the relatively easily-dispersed high-elevation cryptogams have little local differentiation. Our comparative approach demonstrates that complex scale-dependent differences between life forms may underlie the apparent simplicity of elevational gradients. Furthermore, elevational gradients summarized from distributional notes cannot be assumed to be proxies for elevational gradients on individual mountain slopes.
23064942|Rhinanthoid Orobanchaceae form a monophyletic lineage that include the hemiparasitic genera Euphrasia, Melampyrum, Tozzia, Bartsia, Nothobartsia, Odontites (s.l.), Rhinanthus, Rhynchocorys, Parentucellia, Hedbergia and holoparasitic Lathraea. In this study, we aimed to reconstruct the phylogeny, evolution of life-history traits (life cycle and seed size) and explain the extant biogeographical patterns in this group. For phylogenetic reconstruction, we used molecular data obtained by sequencing the nuclear ITS region and the chloroplast trnT-trnL intergenic spacer and matK+trnK regions. The genus Melampyrum was found to occupy the sister position to the rest of the group. The other genera were assembled in the sister Rhinanthus-Rhynchocorys-Lathraea and Bartsia-Euphrasia-Odontites subclades. The reconstruction of life-cycle evolution yielded ambiguous results suggesting nonetheless a substantially higher likelihood of perenniality compared to annuality in most ancestor lineages. Seed size varied across two orders of magnitude (average weight per seed: 0.027.22 mg) and tended to decrease in the Bartsia-Euphrasia-Odontites subclade compared to the rest of the group. Seed-size evolution was correlated with life-history evolution in the group if the generally small-seeded Bartsia-Euphrasia-Odontites subclade is excluded. We formulated hypotheses relating the extant biogeographical affinities of individual genera to the geological history of the Euro-Caucasian diversity center of the group. Notable dispersal events in Euphrasia and Bartsia were hypothesized to be allowed or at least facilitated by a specific combination of the life-history traits.
23264902|Dianthus angulatus (Caryophyllaceae) is cytologically examined here for the first time for the area of India. The diploid chromosome count of 2n=30, ascertained here, represents a new cytotype, supplementing the earlier report of a hexaploid cytotype with 2n=90 from outside of India. We report here the occurrence of two plants showing impaired meiosis due to irregular synapsis and cytomixis collected from Kinnaur district, Himachal Pradesh (India). The other plants of this species collected in Lahaul-Spiti region showed normal male meiosis (n=15) with a high (95%100%) pollen fertility and normal seed set, and they reproduce sexually. Irregular synapsis in two plants from the Kinnaur region is characterized by the complete absence of chromosome pairing and the presence of 30 univalents at diakinesis and meta-anaphase. In addition, other meiotic irregularities were found, such as unoriented chromosomes, laggards, precocious movements of univalents at anaphase-I and micronuclei at telophase. Microsporogenesis was also abnormal, resulting in the formation of monads, dyads, triads, polyads, and tetrads with micronuclei. The occurrence of intra- and intermicrosporal chromatin material transfer during microsporogenesis was observed, which is a rather rarely observed phenomenon. The synaptic irregularities coupled with chromatin transfer in these plants seem to be responsible for the high pollen sterility (38%42%) and heterogeneously sized pollen grains. In these plants no seeds were set, and plants reproduced vegetatively through root suckers.
23064956|The scarce karyological data available for both the Arctium-Cousinia complex and the Onopordum group has led us to provide more data essential to understand the karyological evolution of these taxa. Chromosome counts were made on somatic metaphases using the squash technique. We report 20 chromosome number records for the genus Cousinia s. lat. from the area of Near East and Central Asia. Thirteen of them are first chromosome counts for the studied species, and the remaining seven records provide confirmation of scarce or uncertain previous data. We also present the first chromosome counts for three of the 13 sections of this genus. Our records for Arctioid species show karyological uniformity with 2n=36. In the Cousinioid group, 13 records agree with the three major numbers of its characteristic dysploidy series 2n=22, 24 and 26. We report first chromosome counts for the genera Olgaea and Syreitschikovia from Kazakhstan, being 2n=26 and 24, respectively. Our results confirm a hypothesis that the Arctioid and Cousinioid clades, although forming a monophyletic group, have followed different evolutionary paths. In the Onopordum group, our results confirm the existence of two lineages; the colonizing biennial taxa are characterized by n=17, while the perennial genera have n=12, 13. The evidence for recent polyploidization is absent in both the Arctium-Cousinia complex and the Onopordum group.
25134012|Species distribution depends on the physiological and ecological niche where a species can exist and regenerate in resource competition with other species (niche limitation). The realized niche is influenced by local biotic processes that influence species behaviour and the shape of the response curves relative to environmental gradients. Processes on larger scales also influence the species niche through source-sink mechanisms (dispersal limitation) and the species richness of an area (pool limitation). Despite the growing evidence of skewed or irregular species response curves along gradients, many ecologists still assume symmetric, unimodal response curves along gradients in ecological interpretation. Ellenberg's indicator system is probably the most common example. However, the assumption is not ecologically or statistically valid, due to the many different processes affecting the distribution of plant species. Here I present the results of Huisman-Olff-Fresco (HOF) regressions for 209 Danish forest species. HOF modelling is chosen to avoid the classical drawbacks of assuming symmetric, unimodal response patterns. I calculate the optima for all species with unimodal responses to soil pH and compare these with the Ellenberg indicator values for reaction (R), which are often used as a substitute for soil pH measurements. I demonstrate that the assumption of symmetric, unimodal species behaviour is violated in 54% of the cases and that pH optima and R indicator values for species are not always compatible. Ellenberg reaction scale has been used by Ewald (Folia Geobot. 38: 357-366, 2003) as an indicator of which species are calcicole, i.e., whether they can grow and reproduce on calcareous soils. Such affinities of species, however, are related to both local niche properties and processes on large scales and cannot be generalized from a single empirical variable such as pH, nor from Ellenberg semi-ordinal indicator scale. I conclude that while the determination of whether species are calcicole or calcifuge requires more research, it is evident that Denmark contains a fairly balanced number of calciphytic and acidophytic species. This is probably due to the nearly equal areas with acidic and alkaline soils in Denmark, which also contribute to the high species richness of more than 500 vascular plant species in Danish forests.
25134149|Cattle influences gap dynamics in pastures in two ways: (1) by creating gaps and (2) by affecting the colonization process. This effect of cattle activity on gap revegetation can be subdivided in three main factors: herbage removal, trampling and dung and urine deposition. The objective of this study was to assess how these three effects moderate the plant succession following gap creation. In an exclosure, four controlled treatments simulating cattle activity (repeated mowing, trampling, manuring and untreated control) were applied on plots of 2  2 m. In the centre of each plot, one artificial gap of 60  60 cm was created. During three years, vegetation changes were monitored in spring and in autumn, with a square grid of 100 cells of 0.01 m centred on the gap. Our experiment confirmed that fine-scale gap creation may have a high impact on relative abundances of species in the community. The gap environment acts on species as a filter and this filtering was described in terms of regenerative attributes. Colonizers were species with small seeds, unspecialized seed dispersal, persistent seed bank and high vegetation spread. However, the role of dung deposition, herbage removal or trampling by cattle did not seem to be of primary importance in the revegetation process, but could moderate vegetation response. Therefore, the different cattle effects act as secondary filters that selectively favoured or disadvantaged different species from the gap-regenerating community. These complex interactions are probably keys to understand plant coexistence in perennial grasslands.
23064548|Pinus rotundata dominated peatbog (ofinka Nature Reserve) in the Tebo Basin, Czech Republic, was affected by "natural" disturbances: wind damage (1984), followed by a bark beetle attack, and fire (1994, 2000). Phytosociological relevs were used to document vegetation. Soil water chemistry was compared in three differently affected stands: (1) an undisturbed Pinus rotundata bog forest, (2) a windthrow  bark beetle affected stand and (3) a site burned by wildfire in 2000. The species composition of the windthrow  bark beetle affected sites and the undisturbed P. rotundata bog forest differed mainly in the shrub and tree layers. Burned sites were partly colonized by anemochorous species (e.g. Taraxacum sp. div.) that disappeared within two or three years after colonization. Bare peat was colonized by bryophytes (e.g. Marchantia polymorpha and Funaria hygrometrica) typical of the disturbed sites, and by Polytrichum sp. div. and Aulacomnium palustre. Most plant species characteristic of the P. rotundata bog forest occurred at the burned sites eight years after the fire, but in different abundances. The edificator of the former communityP. rotundatawas mostly absent. Compared with windthrow followed by the bark beetle attack, fire promoted rapid expansion of Molinia caerulea. Soil water in both the undisturbed P. rotundata bog forest and the windthrow - bark beetle affected sites had a similar composition: very low pH values, high P concentrations, low concentrations of cations (Ca, Mg and K) and inorganic nitrogen. The concentrations of soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) and ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}\phantom{\rule{0ex}{0ex}}$  N were negatively correlated with the groundwater table. Total P, SRP and ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}\phantom{\rule{0ex}{0ex}}$  N concentrations in the soil water at the burned site were by one order of magnitude higher than those in the P. rotundata bog forest, while concentrations of K, Mg and Ca were only about two times higher. High concentrations of P and N in the soil water found three years after the fire indicated a long-term elevated nutrient content in the soil water.
25133840| The ability of different alpine species to influence soil nutrient concentrations was quantified by growing monocultures of 17 species on a homogenized acid alpine soil mixture. The experiment was carried out at 2750 m a.s.l. in the Teberda Reserve, Northwest Caucasus. Soil nutrient contents (NH, NO, P, Ca, Mg, and K) and pH were analyzed after 6 years. The same soil mixture but without plants was used as a control. The plant species had significant effects on all soil properties. Different species groups tended to decrease different nutrients to different extents, e.g. Matricaria caucasica had the lowest level for NO and Festuca ovina for P. Many species increased the cation content (Ca, Mg, K) in the soil in comparison with the control. Prevention of cation leaching seems to be the main mechanism of these increases, because initial cation contents were higher than the final. All species, except Sibbaldia procumbens, increased soil pH in comparison with the final control. Significant differences among taxonomic groups (families) were found for exchangeable Ca, Mg, and pH. Fabaceae decreased cation contents (Ca, Mg), but tended to increase nitrogen (NH, NO). Cyperaceae (Carex spp.) tended to decrease ammonium content, and both Asteraceae and Cyperaceae tended to decrease nitrate concentrations. The phosphorus content tended to be reduced by grasses. There was no strong correspondence between properties of native soils of 4 alpine communities and nutrient concentrations for species preferring those communities. 
4201330|Following the "Index of new names" (Theurillat & Moravec 1998), the present work collects the names of syntaxa (in the sense of the Code of phytosociological nomenclature, Barkman et al. 1986) above subassociation rank typified in 1994. The list comprises 101 names of syntaxa; three names are added to the Index 1992 (Theurillat & Moravec 1995).
23064929|Changes in traditional agricultural systems in Europe in recent decades have led to widespread abandonment and colonization of various habitats by shrubs and trees. We combined several vegetation databases to test whether patterns of changes in plant diversity after land abandonment in different habitats followed similar pathways. The impacts of land abandonment and subsequent woody colonization on vegetation composition and plant traits were studied in five semi-natural open habitats and two arable habitats in six regions of Europe. For each habitat, vegetation surveys were carried out in different stages of succession using either permanent or non-permanent plots. Consecutive stages of succession were defined on a physiognomic basis from initial open stages to late woody stages. Changes in vegetation composition, species richness, numbers of species on Red Lists, plant strategy types, Ellenberg indicator values of the vegetation, Grime CSR strategy types and seven ecological traits were assessed for each stage of the successional pathway. Abandonment of agro-pastoral land-use and subsequent woody colonization were associated with changes in floristic composition. Plant richness varied according to the different habitats and stages of succession, but semi-natural habitats differed from arable fields in several ecological traits and vegetation responses. Nevertheless, succession occurred along broadly predictable pathways. Vegetation in abandoned arable fields was characterized by a decreasing importance of R-strategists, annuals, seed plants with overwintering green leaves, insect-pollinated plants with hemi-rosette morphology and plants thriving in nutrient-rich conditions, but an increase in species considered as endangered according to the Red Lists. Conversely, changes in plant traits with succession within the initially-open semi-natural habitats showed an increase in plants thriving in nutrient-rich conditions, stress-tolerant plants and plants with sexual and vegetative reproduction, but a sharp decrease in protected species. In conclusion, our study showed a set of similarities in responses of the vegetation in plant traits after land abandonment, but we also highlighted differences between arable fields and semi-natural habitats, emphasizing the importance of land-use legacy.
25134115|The following study presents a statistical analysis of 595 relevs gathered during a survey of isolated grasslands and dwarf shrub heaths in the region of Halle, eastern Germany. Relevs were classified with UPGMA clustering based on a Bray-Curtis distance matrix; the resulting classification was compared with a previously published phytosociological classification. Most of the 14 target communities were supported by both approaches, but in the case of communities on heavily disturbed sites cluster analysis corresponded to units on higher phytosociological levels (alliances). DCA ordinations clearly revealed that nutrient and moisture availability controlled the community differentiation. Both factors were, however, highly correlated with the distance to the outcrop edge. Thus the outcrop size also influenced differentiation of communities, making larger outcrops richer in xerophytic and endangered species. This appears to be largely due to edge effects since the relationships diminished sharply when we controlled for progressively increasing distances from the edge in partial ordinations. Thus, microtopography of outcrops was the most important factor for community differentiation. It is therefore suggested that future research and conservation management should concentrate on the consequences of nutrient influx and changing land use on larger outcrops.
25133949|A multivariate analysis has been performed in order to study the polymorphisms of the three species of Potentilla sect. Recta (Th. Wolf) Juzepchuk represented in the Iberian Peninsula: P. asturica Rothm., P. hirta L. and P. recta L. The variability of 20 characters (quantitative, binary and qualitative) has been evaluated in 76 collections mostly from the Iberian Peninsula and from other European territories, but also from North America, and North Africa. The analyses performed provide support for the recognition of the three species. The most discriminant among the quantitative characters is the width of the long trichomes on the stem, and then the width of the long trichomes on the leaves and the maximum length of the long trichomes. The interval of number of carpels, presence or absence of short eglandular trichomes and the abundance of long eglandular trichomes (> 3 mm) are the most discriminant ones among the qualitative ones. The taxonomical position of P. asturica, which has been previously subordinated as a subspecies within the other two taxa, is discussed. Our results support a good delimitation of this taxon which, on the basis of the morphological characters studied by us, seems to be morphologically more close to P. hirta than to P. recta, but differs significantly from both. A key to the three species is provided.
25134103|Climate change may affect hemiparasitic Orobanchaceae (ex-Scrophulariaceae) both directly through impacts on hemiparasite physiology and indirectly through impacts on host plants. This dual action suggests particular sensitivity of the parasite to climate change and any associated impacts on hosts and other members of the community. While little research has addressed the responses of parasitic plants to climate change in natural environments, impacts are predicted from controlled environment studies together with a knowledge of the key ecophysiological traits of hemiparasitic Orobanchaceae, in particular of Striga species, which are important weeds in semi-arid tropical agro-ecosystems, and Rhinanthus species, which can be important components of (principally) grassland communities in the northern temperate zone. The main mode of action of both elevated CO and warming will be through changes in photosynthesis and stomatal functioning. Enhanced photosynthesis of the hemiparasite and host will increase parasite carbon gains but may also increase the demand for host mineral nutrients. Mineral nutrition may, therefore, mediate the impacts of climate change on host-parasite associations. The relative insensitivity of hemiparasite stomata to elevated CO suggests that high stomatal conductances may be maintained and thus solute uptake may become limited by soil drying driven by higher rates of evapotranspiration and reduced precipitation. Climate change impacts on host-parasite interactions at the individual level will ultimately affect hemiparasite impacts at the community level. Community impacts will be greatest where climate change considerably favours hemiparasite populations or, conversely, causes them to disappear from communities where they were formerly abundant. Impacts will further be mediated by climate impacts on hosts, and the natural enemies of hosts and parasites alike. Further, the wide host range of many root hemiparasitic plants may facilitate migration of their populations through new communities under a changing climate.
25134102|Using the facultative root hemiparasite Rhinanthus minor and Hordeum vulgare as a host, the flows and partitioning of mannitol in the parasite, and of sucrose in the host have been studied during the period of 41 to 54 days after planting, i.e, about 30 to 43 days after successful attachment of the parasite to the host. The biosynthesis of mannitol in Rhinanthus shoots increased 16-fold by parasitism, resulting in a 15-fold higher mannitol flow in the phloem and a 10-fold higher deposition in the shoot. Under reduced nitrogen supply and with ammonium as the only N-form the concentrations of mannitol tended to be increased by approximately 2-fold. Xylem flows of mannitol were increased 10-fold after attachment. No mannitol was found in barley roots even in the direct vicinity of the haustoria. Compared to unparasitized barley, the net biosynthesis and deposition in the shoot and the phloem flow was decreased substantially. No sucrose has been detected in barley xylem sap and consequently there was no indication of a sucrose transfer from the host to the parasite. A possible involvement of mannitol in the abscisic acid relations of the parasite is discussed.
23064580|Changes in species composition and richness across the sub-alpine forest ecotone are well known phenomena. The total number of species at a regional scale drops substantially above the forest-line in the central Himalayas of Nepal. This study tests the effect of a forest border ecotone on a local scale using a grain size of 100 m. We sampled a set of vertical transects across a sloping sub-alpine forest line where canopy and temperature covary, and a set of horizontal transects across a forest ecotone where there was no altitudinal difference to eliminate the influence of temperature. Detrended correspondence analysis revealed a continuous change in species composition across the forest border ecotone. Species turnover was, in general, low, and species richness did not vary very much between the forest and open landscapes. We attribute this to the grazing and browsing pressure in the area, which may have lowered the tree line. A reduced tree line compared to the climatic limit may facilitate enhanced species richness above the forest line. There was no significant difference in species richness between forest and open landscapes along horizontal transects where temperature variations were minimized. This study exemplifies the difficulties encountered on a local scale when one aims to test diversity hypotheses deduced from general models on forest-ecotone effect and mass effect. The low species turnover and minor differences in alpha diversity may be because the area is a cultural landscape and the homogenizing effect of domestic animals overrides some of the edge effects of the ecotone.
23486809|The potential natural vegetation (PNV) is a tool for landscape planning, nature preservation and the assessment of naturalness. It is mostly constructed by the application of expert knowledge. This paper shows the advantages of using a more sophisticated and formalized PNV construction that overlays vegetation types and site factor maps by applying a Bayes model and herewith improving existing PNV maps solely based on expert knowledge. The investigation was conducted in the forest complex of the Bavarian Forest National Park (Germany) and the adjacent umava National Park (Czech Republic). The project reached two major results: (1) The existing heterogeneous country-specific databases of natural site conditions and of vegetation types could be adapted to each other to construct a solid scientific basis to deduce a PNV map. The habitat requirements of the occurring harmonized vegetation types can now be quantitatively described in a formalized way. (2) The combination of terrestrial PNV mapping and numerical modeling allows the synthesis of the views of the different experts that generated the maps used for model calibration. However, the modeled map loses the details of the expert-based map that cannot be derived from the underlying site maps. A common modeled PNV map of both national parks covering an area of about 92,000 ha was created. While the former expert-based PNV maps display breaks along the country border, the modeled PNV presents a harmonized view based on the common database of both national parks.
25133980|The last lowland locality of Gentiana verna in the Czech Republic is a calcareous grassland near Rovn at Strakonice in South Bohemia. This locality was the subject of a recovery programme that included support of the remaining population by micropropagation. The plants were inoculated with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) after their transfer to ex vitro and the effect of AMF on their establishment and survival was studied. Although the conventional method of inoculation of G. verna using spores or colonized root segments as an inoculum source resulted in no or negligible root colonization, the transplantation of gentians to the locality Rovn was successful and the plants became colonized with AMF very rapidly in the field. Successful mycorrhization of gentians under experimental conditions occurred only via the extraradical mycelial network established by neighbouring mycorrhizal plant species (nurse plant effect). Different nurse plant species formed different morphological types of mycorrhiza when inoculated with the same fungal isolate. Gentians always had the Paris type of root colonization with intracellular hyphal loops and swellings. Intercellular hyphae, arbuscules and vesicles were not observed. No evidence for a positive growth response was found in G. verna.
25134116|Sphagnum mosses dominate the plant cover of boreal bogs and accumulate carbon as peat. However, discoloured necrotic Sphagnum patches are also common in bogs. Necrotic Sphagnum inhibits peat accumulation, and consequently these areas may sink with respect to their surroundings with healthy mosses and continuing peat accumulation. Therefore, nectrotic patches in the moss carpet could have an important role in triggering the succession of Sphagnum communities and the differentiation of bog microtopography. Our main aim was to find out how necrotic Sphagnum patches are distributed on a microtopographic gradient and among Sphagnum species. Based on these results we discuss the development and likely role of necrotic patches. It was found that necrotic patches occur on all types of bog microforms and contain the most of common Sphagnum species. Necrotic patches were more common and larger in wet hollows. The development of necrotic patches depends on their location on the microtopographic gradient. Necrotic patches on higher microforms usually re-vegetate, whereas those in hollows can result in mud-bottom hollows.
25133976| Chitin is reported to stimulate mycorrhizas and antagonistic, lytic-enzyme producing soil microorganisms. Here mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal strawberry (Fragaria vesca) plants were grown in peat growth-substrate and in peat amended with chitin (Suppressor). Chitinase and cellulase activity was determined and the plants were challenged by inoculation with Phytophthora fragariae, the causal agent of redcore disease. Disease resistance was only found in the mycorrhizal strawberry-chitin amendment treatment and depended on the duration of the mycorrhiza's growth in the amended substrate before potting on to a chitin-free growth substrate. The practical application of chitin substrate amendment in the exploitation of mycorrhizal biological control is discussed. 
25133975|Extracts from mycorrhizal roots, non-mycorrhizal roots obtained from mycorrhizal root systems, and non-inoculated maize roots were fractionated by gel chromatography and their effects on the hyphal growth of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices were studied under aseptic conditions. Low-molecular (MW lower than 3000) extracts obtained from mycorrhizal roots contained the fraction that most rapidly suppresses the hyphae growth. This was not observed for the fastest fraction obtained from non-mycorrhizal roots. The increased content of some inorganic ions, mainly potassium, was recorded in the fastest fraction of the mycorrhizal root extracts. At the same time, higher contents of two unidentified major organic compounds were revealed in this fraction of the mycorrhizal root extract compared to the non-mycorrhizal one. Some of these compounds, which are locally accumulated in the mycorrhizal parts of the root, are probably responsible for the effect observed. Potassium alone, even at a high concentration, cannot be responsible for the supression observed.
25133910| A palaeoecological investigation of a sediment core obtained from an artificial lake - the fishpond Vajgar (40 ha) near the town of Jindichv Hradec, southern Bohemia, has been carried out in connection with extensive multidisciplinary research preceding the removal of its sediment. Samples from selected standard profile were subjected to chemical, pollen, and palaeoalgological analyses in order to study the chronology of vegetation development, anthropogenic impact on the landscape, and the development of an artificial fishpond ecosystem. The palaeoecological record under study comprises the period of extensive change from pre-cultural, silver fir-dominated forest vegetation into managed, agricultural landscape dominated by cereal fields and pastures. After Medieval colonization, the proportion between wooded and open landscape changed, and the composition of original forests shifted to pine. Pollen spectra from the High Middle Ages are characterized by high percentages of anthropogenic indicators and closely resemble the results from urban deposits (cesspits, wells, communication horizons, etc.). This period can be subdivided into a first phase correlated with the High and Late Middle Ages and a second phase correlated with the post Medieval period and partly maybe also with the agricultural collectivization of the 20th century. The earlier phase has a rather uniform character with a significant presence of grazing indicators and cereal weeds. After the collectivization of the 1950s and later, a substantial change in agricultural practices can be detected: the large-scale use of herbicides affecting the composition of agricultural ruderal species (e.g. decline of cornflower (Centaurea cyanus), rye (Secale), etc.). The development of the aquatic system of the fishpond Vajgar was studied by means of chemical and palaeoalgological analyses. On the basis of observed changes in the composition of subfossil algal communities, the fishpond history can be split into four distinct phases. It is assumed that the progression over individual phases was caused by changes in water chemistry that can be interpreted as shifts in water quality caused by the urbanization of the surrounding areas as well as by changes in agricultural practices. The results of the investigation of some chemical elements (especially heavy metals) show stratigraphic patterns that can be related to historical events. These results show that the mixing and bioturbation of the sediment was not so significant as might be expected. 
25133784|Spatially-explicit and landscape-related simulation models are increasingly used in ecology, but are often criticized because their parameterization has high data requirements. A frequently suggested approach to overcome this difficulty is the linkage of spatially-explicit or landscape-related models with GIS (geographic information system) and remote-sensing technology. GIS can provide data on relevant landscape features, such as topography, and satellite images can be used to identify spatial vegetation distribution. In this paper, we use these techniques for simple, cost-inexpensive (in both time and money) parameterization based on readily-available GIS and remotely-sensed data. We use a previously developed, spatially-explicit model of the population dynamics of an Acacia species in the Negev desert of Israel (SAM, spatial Acacia model) to investigate if model initialization (measurement of current tree distribution) can be obtained from readily-available satellite images using a radiometric vegetation index (NDVI, normalized difference vegetation index). Furthermore, we investigate the applicability and the advantages of using an explicit consideration of landscape features in the model based on topographic data from a GIS. Using a DEM (digital elevation model), we compare the wadi topography to the current tree distribution observed in the field. We found that the readily-available GIS and remotely-sensed data are not sufficient to significantly support the parameterization and further development of the model. We conclude that despite the possible benefit of linking spatially-explicit models with other techniques the advantage compared to data sampling in the field is limited by a possible mismatch of scales and the dominant role of stochasticity that may override the relevance of certain spatially-explicit information.
4201352|Phytosociological classification of vegetation is often justified on the grounds it provides a means of predicting properties other than floristic composition. It is difficult to find examples in literature where this possibility of prediction is actually used. In this paper, we examine the qualitative variation in proazulenes of the Achillea millefolium group as a function of cytological, abiotic and floristic factors. Sixty-six sites in natural populations were examined. Twenty to forty individuals per site were tested in the field for the presence of proazulenes. Ploidy level of collected specimens was examined to differentiate between taxa within the aggregate. Soil analyses were also performed and species composition of the sites was recorded. The floristic data was classified and attributed to phytosociological units. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to investigate the relationships between environment and floristic data, t-tests were performed and correlation coefficients were calculated to distinguish the mutual relationships between environmental factors, populations and relative frequency of proazulenes-containing individuals. In the area under study, hexaploid populations of yarrows were characterized by a low frequency of proazulenes. They were confined to dry and nutrient-poor habitats of fallows, slightly moist grasslands and fringes. Tetraploid populations consisted of different types. Both high and low frequencies of proazulenes-containing individuals occurred. A high frequency of such plants per site was positively correlated with phosphate, magnesium and manganese and negatively with carbonate and hydrogen ion concentration in soil. The results show that effective prediction of proazulenes-containing individuals is possible from the species composition of the sites, which is a comparatively simple procedure avoiding more expensive cytological and chemical assessment.
25134137|Serapias vomeracea is considered to be a particular example of the deceptive strategy of terrestrial orchids. Information on its reproductive biology and population genetic variation is needed to develop conservation strategies. The pollination biology and breeding system were investigated in four populations of S. vomeracea. Hand-pollination experiments showed that S. vomeracea is self-compatible. Bagged inflorescence produced no fruits; artificial pollination resulted in 89.7-100% fruit set through induced autogamy, 91.1-100% with geitonogamous, and 89.3-94.4% following xenogamous pollination. Fruit set in the open-pollinated control ranged from 13.4 to 20.9%. We evaluated the spatial genetic structure of 13 populations using five nuclear microsatellite loci. Italian and isle of Corfu populations of S. vomeracea are characterized by a low mean allele number, ranging from 2.4 to 3.8, by intermediate to high heterozygosity levels, ranging from 0.50 to 0.71, and by frequent deviations from the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (9 out 13 populations). Most of the S. vomeracea populations exhibited significant heterozygote excess. The population size reduction is most probably the cause of the low genetic variation observed in the populations of S. vomeracea. For the genetic conservation and management of S. vomeracea suitable strategies should be developed based on these data.
25134151|Experimental crosses between diploids, triploids and tetraploids of Hieracium echioides were made to examine mating interactions. Specifically, cytotype diversity in progeny from experimental crosses, intercytotype pollen competition as a reproductive barrier between diploids and tetraploids, and differences in seed set between intra- and intercytotype crosses were studied. Only diploids were found in progeny from 2x  2x crosses. The other types of crosses yielded more than one cytotype in progeny, but one cytotype predominated in each cross type: diploids (92%) in 2x  3x crosses, tetraploids (88%) in 3x  2x crosses, triploids (96%) in 2x  4x crosses, triploids (90%) in 4x  2x crosses, tetraploids (60%) in 3x  3x crosses, pentaploids (56%) in 3x  4x crosses, triploids (80%) in 4x  3x crosses and tetraploids (88%) in 4x  4x crosses. No aneuploids have been detected among karyologically analyzed plants. Unreduced egg cell production was detected in triploids and tetraploids, but formation of unreduced pollen was recorded only in two cases in triploids. Triploid plants produced x, 2x and 3x gametes: in male gametes x (92%) gametes predominated whereas in female gametes 3x (88%) gametes predominated. Cytotype diversity in progeny from crosses where diploids and tetraploids were pollinated by mixture of pollen from diploid and tetraploid plants suggested intercytotype pollen competition to serve as a prezygotic reproductive barrier. No statistically significant difference in seed set obtained from intra- and intercytotype crosses between diploids and tetraploids was observed, suggesting the absence of postzygotic reproductive barriers among cytotypes.
25134147|Numerical classification of 2653 geographically stratified relevs of weed vegetation from the Czech and Slovak Republics was performed with cluster analysis. Diagnostic species were determined for each of the seven main clusters using statistical measures of fidelity. The classification reflected clear distinctions between lowland (mostly calcicole) and highland (mostly calcifuge) sites, spring and summer phenological stages, and cereals and root crops. The results of the cluster analysis were compared with traditional phytosociological units. Two clusters corresponded to calcifuge weed vegetation of the Scleranthion annui alliance; one cluster represented the vegetation of root crops on moist soils of the Oxalidion europaeae alliance; one cluster contained thermophilous weed vegetation of the Caucalidion lappulae alliance; two clusters included weed vegetation of root crops and of stubble fields, which can be assigned to the Caucalidion, Panico-Setarion, Veronico-Euphorbion and Eragrostion alliances; one cluster included vernal weed vegetation in little disturbed habitats of the Caucalidion lappulae and Scleranthion annui alliances. Our analysis did not support the concept of the Sherardion and Veronico-Taraxacion alliances, which were included in earlier overviews of the vegetation units of the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
41245545|The vegetation of natural fir-beech forests on the western edge of the Carpathians was repeatedly surveyed in 1972(4) and 1994(5) on 34 plots in the Razula and Salajka reserves. Concurrently repeated whole-area dendrometric measurements of all live and dead trees were made together with maps of forest development stages. The maps were used to compare vegetation changes. The objective was to assess the tree layer dynamics, to discern vegetation development trends from cyclical changes, and to assess the changes of site conditions through phytoindication. The fir (Abies alba) population showed disrupted continuity of development associated with its pronounced withdrawal and replacement by beech (Fagus sylvatica). Rather than a cyclical change, the phenomenon is a trend that can be expected to become more dominant in the future. The reason for the interchange of the two species is seen in a fading response to the medieval colonization of Carpathian ridges connected with the exploitation of local forests for grazing and intensive litter raking. The herb layer was significantly modelled by changes occurring over time and by the dynamics of forest development stages. Species diversity in Razula was observed to increase. Salajka exhibited an invasion of acidophilous taxa (Luzula luzuloides, Vaccinium myrtillus) and decreased frequency of demanding taxa (Galeobdolon montanum, Dentaria enneaphyllos 9 Galium odoratum). Changes in the coverage of Dryoptehs filix-mas, Rubus idaeus and Senecio ovatus were interpreted as cyclical changes. No significant shifts were found in the species diversity between the stages. The herb layer at a disintegration stage was homogenized and exhibited the lowest tendency to gain relative control of the undergrowth; the tendency was highest at the optimum stage. The stages of forest development exhibited changes in soil nitrogen and soil reaction.
4201356|Vegetation dynamics of subalpine wetlands in the Sierra Nevada, California, were studied from 1988 through 1996. During this period, the region experienced a drought lasting from 1988 to 1994 and reaching its extreme in 1992. Our intention was to analyze the changes in plant species diversity, composition, and biomass, and interpret them in terms of drought resistance and resilience. Four plant communities, dominated respectively by Carex rostrata, Juncus balticus, Scirpus acutus or Nuphar polysepalum, were clearly discernible in the marsh along the water depth gradient. Species diversity of Carex rostrata, Scirpus acutus and Nuphar polysepalum communities was the highest during the driest year, 1992, while biomass was lowest for all vegetation types in that year. Dominance of Carex and Juncus has not changed over the years, however, Scirpus almost totally disappeared from the marsh, and the Nuphar zone became dominated by the rhizomatous perennial, Hippuris vulgaris, and terrestrial ruderals in dry years. In terms of changes in species composition, Carex and Juncus communities were both resistant and resilient. The Nuphar community seemed to be less resistant and more resilient, while the Scirpus community was neither resistant nor resilient. If we consider biomass per plot as a variable of interest, regardless of species composition, then Carex and Juncus were to some extent resistant and all plots were resilient because they were able to recover quickly to their pre-drought biomass. Life histories of dominant species were a more important determinant of community stability than species diversity.
41245510|LJER (2007) reviewed the use of statistical methods for the analysis of vegetation data and concluded that their assumptions are often violated. Most importantly, the vegetation data are usually not a random sample of vegetation, and consequently the statistical tests should not be used at all. Although we appreciate many concerns raised in Lajer's paper, we find his conclusions far-fetched and inappropriate for practical use. In large-scale observational studies, it is practically impossible to define the sampled statistical population in the way that would allow for truly random sampling. As we are unable to ensure that any part of the population can appear in our sample with the same probability, we must try to avoid interaction between any bias imposed by the sampling procedure with the hypotheses we test. The same stance can also be taken in the case of datasets extracted from the databases of phytosociological relevs, where a substantial bias was introduced by phytosociologists' prejudice in selection of sampling locations. We can hardly use this kind of data when testing hypotheses concerning absolute values of species richness or discontinuities in community variation, but there are also many important research hypotheses that can be tested even with the help of this data source. In fact, such voluminous databases are the only available source of data for exploring research questions referring to large spatial or temporal scales. We must also reject Lajer's suggestion that application of descriptive, exploratory statistical methods is less harmful for datasets with sampling bias than application of tests of statistical hypotheses. Finally, we stress the difference between observational and experimental studies, because the rigor of sampling design should be respected much more in the case of latter ones.
23064572|Allozyme diversity was assessed in 13 populations of Delphinium pictum and D. requienii, two short-lived and closely related insular Mediterranean endemics. While D. pictum has scattered distribution in Corsica, Sardinia and Majorca, D. requienii is found in a few small populations restricted to the Hyres Archipelago. Eleven enzyme systems were assayed, and 15 loci were resolved. Both species harboured moderate levels of genetic diversity, comparable to the values expected for endemic plants. All genetic parameters suggested higher diversity in D. pictum (A=1.93, P=40, H=0.106) than in D. requienii (A=1.30, P=26.7, H=0.096); F IS values revealed higher inbreeding in D. requienii. Although the two species did not harbour species-specific alelles in the surveyed loci, the UPGMA dendrogram based on Nei's genetic similarity index supported divergence between them. These results, together with significant morphological similarity and evidence of successful hybridization between the species, support the hypothesis of a recent speciation event. The moderate levels of both genetic variability and population divergence observed for D. pictum are likely attributable to its ability to establish seed banks. Given that the allozyme variation detected for D. pictum was significantly partitioned among islands, we suggest the implementation of conservation programs throughout its distribution range, and not only in Corsica as it occurs nowadays. Management strategies are also desirable for D. requienii to maintain population size and control inbreeding.
25134099|Rhinanthus minor and Rhinanthus angustifolius are known to hybridize in mixed populations in nature. These hybridization events can have important evolutionary consequences. The development and use of species-specific RAPD and ISSR markers allowed the detection of hybrid individuals not always distinguishable with morphological characters. Two mixed populations of different ages were studied. In a young mixed 2-year-old population, both individuals of the two parental species and F hybrids were found using genetic analysis, showing that hybridization occurred rapidly. Flower morphology of F hybrids was too variable to distinguish all these hybrids from the parental species. This morphological variability of F hybrids was also confirmed in artificial crosses in the greenhouse. In an old and no longer mixed 30-year-old population, only R. angustifolius plants and a few genetically introgressed individuals close to R. angustifolius were present. Genetic markers showed traces of past hybridization and introgression. Unidirectional introgression of R. minor into R. angustifolius with the complete disappearance of R. minor from this population was observed.
23064578|We assessed presence/absence prediction of plant species and communities in a southern Mongolian mountain range from geospatial data using a randomized sampling approach. One hundred randomized vegetation samples (33 m) were collected within the 22 km summit region of the Dund Saykhan range, which forms part of the core zone of the Gobi Gurvan Saykhan National Park in arid southern Mongolia. Using logistic regression, habitat preference models for all abundant species (n=52) and communities (n=5) were constructed; predictors were derived from Landsat 5 imagery and a digital elevation model. Nagelkerkes r was used for an initial data mining, and all significant models were validated by splitting the data and using one half for accuracy assessment based on the AUC (Area Under the receiver operating characteristic Curve)-values. Significant models could be built for half of the species. Altitude proved to be the most important predictor followed by variables derived from Landsat data. The clear altitudinal distribution patterns most definitely reflect precipitation; overall biodiversity in this arid environment is widely controlled by moisture availability. The chosen approach may prove valuable for applied studies wherever spatial data on species distributions are required for conservation efforts.
23064590|Santolina impressa (2n = 2x = 18) is an endemic species of Portugal, with restricted geographical distribution. The present study aimed to explore its chromosomal variation in respect to chromosome morphology, meiotic behaviour, and effects on pollen stainability and fecundity. Its karyotype formula was found to be either 12m + 2m sat + 2sm sat + 2st (75% of the individuals) or 12m + 2m sat + 3sm + 1sm sat (25% of the individuals). Univalents were observed in 29.21% of the meiocytes. Chromosome fragments due to breakage in the chromosome arm were observed in 10 meiocytes only (11.23% of the meiocytes). Chains and rings of trivalents were observed in 14.60% of the meiocytes (one trivalent per meiocyte was observed). Chains and rings of quadrivalents were observed in 21.34% and 11.23% of the meiocytes, respectively, with a range of 01 per cell. Nine plants (40.90% of the total) with 2n = 2x = 18 + 2B showed a quadrivalent configuration in diakinesis. Twenty abnormal anaphases with delayed disjunction of the four non-homologous and the two homologous chromosomes were observed. Simple chromosome bridges without fragments and interchromosomal adhesions were observed in 35.95% of the anaphases analyzed. B chromosomes showed bivalent association in diakinesis and their segregation at anaphase I was normal. Pollen was found to be fertile (mean  s.d. = 89.57  47.14%); the effect of univalent frequency and frequency of abnormal anaphase I on pollen stainability was strong and statistically significant.
25134011|Prtel (Ecology 83: 2361-2366, 2002) and Ewald (Folia Geobot. 38: 357-366, 2003) suggest that the relationship between local species density and soil pH is determined by regional species pool size, which in turn reflects the relative abundance of soil types during the evolutionary history of the flora. Ewald observed that calcareous sites in Central Europe have higher species density and larger species pools than acidic sites, and argues that this is the consequence of a Pleistocene bottleneck for acidophiles. The flora of the southern Blue Ridge Mountains USA has always been associated with primarily acidic soils. We used vegetation and soil data from 3328 100 m southern Blue Ridge forest plots to examine the generality of the Prtel-Ewald hypothesis. The Blue Ridge flora with less than 20% of species confined to sites above pH 4.7 contrasts dramatically with that of Europe. However, regional species pool size increases with pH. Genus- and family-level pools increase with pH, suggesting an ancient origin for this pattern. Mean species density is also strongly positively correlated with soil pH. Thus, both regional species pool size and plot species density of southern Blue Ridge forests fail to conform to predictions derived from the work of Prtel and Ewald. The increase in species pool with increase in pH exhibited by southern Blue Ridge forests appears to reflect broad species distributions and tolerance for high pH conditions among species that grow predominantly under acid conditions. We conclude that richness on higher pH sites is a consequence of generally more favorable conditions for plant growth and/or establishment. Ewald may be correct in asserting that the abundance of high pH specialists in Central Europe is an historical artifact, but our data contradict the assertion of Prtel and Ewald that evolution of a flora in a primarily low pH environment will necessarily translate into a negative correlation between pH and species density in local vegetation.
24572016|Non-native species can alter patterns of species diversity at multiple spatial scales, but the processes that underlie multi-scale effects remain unclear. Here we show that non-native species reduce native diversity at multiple scales through simultaneous disruption of two processes of native community assembly: species immigration, which enhances alpha diversity, and community divergence, which enhances beta diversity. Community divergence refers to the process in which local communities diverge over time in species composition because the history of species immigration and, consequently, the way species affect one another within communities are variable among communities. Continuous experimental removal of species over four years of floodplain succession revealed that, when non-native species were excluded, stochastic variation in the timing of a dominant native species' arrival allowed local communities to diverge, thereby enhancing beta diversity, without compromising promotion of alpha diversity by species immigration. In contrast, when non-native species were allowed to enter experimental plots, they not only reduced native alpha diversity by limiting immigration, but also diminished the dominant native species' role in enhancing native beta diversity. Our results highlight the importance of community assembly and succession for understanding multi-scale effects of non-native species.
25134021|Genetic diversity in a sample of an aquatic plant Butomus umbellatus from 37 localities in Czechia and Slovakia was studied by analyzing six polymorphic loci in three enzymatic systems (SKDH, PGD and AAT). Diversity among ramets was low in eight populations with relatively extensive sampling (only one population possessed more than one multilocus genotype), suggesting high clonality of reproduction in these populations. However, among-population diversity was high: G = 0.782 and 0.881 for the samples of diploid and triploid populations, respectively. Heterozygosity of individual plants averaged over variable loci was also high: H = 0.554 for diploids and 0.453 for triploids. Genetic differentiation among populations was additionally studied using cluster analysis. Several populations of diploids clustered separately from all other populations, whereas another group of diploid populations clustered with some triploid populations, indicating the possibility of relatively recent, probably multiple origin of these triploid populations from their diploid progenitors. Association between matrices of Nei's genetic distances among populations from different localities and matrices of geographic distances among these localities revealed highly significant correlation for the sample of diploid populations (r = 0.60, P < 0.001) but no significant correlation for the sample of triploid populations (r = 0.02, P = 0.593). These results indicate a spatial structure of diploid populations in accordance with the isolation by distance model, and a random distribution of genotypes among triploid populations of B. umbellatus.
25133853|Response of the underground parts of a whole grassland community to heterogeneity in soil resources was studied under field conditions. The increased availability of nutrients (N, P) in patches was combined with suppression of arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis (by fungicide benomyl) and with modification of substrate structure (sieved soil, sieved soil mixed with coarse or fine sand). Three experimental runs were established in 1999, each with seven replicate blocks. Root and rhizome biomass was determined before the experimental treatment and after 53 days of the experiment. Plant community composition in neighbourhood of patches was recorded. Nutrient application had the most pronounced effect on the root biomass grown into the patches (the root biomass increased 1.64 times). The root biomass in patches with fungicide application was 1.17 times higher than in the untreated patches. The modification of substrate structure had no effect on the root biomass in patches but it did modify the effect of benomyl. The amount of root biomass proliferating into the patches was not related to species composition of vegetation near the patches. However, higher frequency of grass tillers in the patch neighbourhood and the mycorrhizal status of neighbouring species correlated significantly with the amount of root biomass in the experimental patches. In the pre-treatment community, amount of root biomass was significantly related to the abundance of grasses and mycorrhizal forbs surrounding the sampling points.
25133844|The systematic position of Pachyphragma macrophyllum (Brassicaceae) is unsettled. This species was either treated as a monotypic section of Thlaspi s.l. or was treated as a distinct genus. Gagria lobata apparently closely related to Pachyphragma, was also given generic rank. To unravel the phylogenetic relationships of Pachyphragma and Gagria, ITS sequence studies were conducted using as a reference representatives of the main lineages of Thlaspi s.l. The molecular data indicate that Gagria lobata and Pachyphragma macrophyllum are closely related to members of Thlaspi s.str., an assemblage of species well separated from the other Thlaspi s.l. lineages.
25133809|In central Europe Phragmites australis is a lowland plant, occurring rarely up to the tree line. In the Velk Kotlina cirque (Jesenky mountains, NE Czech Republic), where it reaches its maximum altitude at about 1350 m a.s.l., its culms are 0.5-0.7 m high and the plants flower only in some years. During the last decade no germinable seeds have been observed. The architecture of Phragmites rhizomes from this site was studied on seven randomly selected clonal fragments. They consisted of 3 to 10 partial tussocks (clumps) and 4 to 17 green shoots. The total length of the rhizomes was 9.7 to 50 m per plant. The number of nodes per plant was 96 to 431 and the longest internodes were 83 mm long. The number of side branches was 31 to 105 per plant. The branching angle depended on the type of branched rhizome. The mean angles of horizontal rhizomes, which connect individual tussocks, were relatively wide (modus 45, arithmetic mean 37), whereas within a tussock much sharper angles of branching prevailed (modal value 5, arithmetic mean 15). The mean internode-to-internode angle on continuing rhizomes was about 8, with a wide variation. An architectural, spatially-explicit model of Phragmites rhizome growth has been developed, showing that the Phragmites population in the studied locality can be maintained by vegetative multiplication, and seedling recruitment is not needed for its long-term persistence.
41245513|Most of the historical phytosociological data on vegetation composition have been sampled preferentially and thus belong to those ecological data that do not fulfill the statistical assumption of independence of observations, necessary for valid statistical testing and inference. Nevertheless, phytosociological data have been recently used for various ecological meta-analyses, especially in studies of large-scale vegetation patterns. For this reason, we focus on the comparison of preferential sampling with other sampling designs that have been recommended as more convenient alternatives from the point of view of statistical theory. We discuss that while simple random sampling, systematic sampling and stratified random sampling better meet some of the statistical assumptions, preferential sampling yields data sets that cover a broader range of vegetation variability. Moreover, today's large phytosociological databases provide huge amounts of vegetation data with unrivalled geographic extent and density. We conclude that in the near future ecologists will not be able to replace the preferentially sampled phytosociological data in large-scale studies. At the same time, phytosociological databases have to be complemented with relevs of vegetation composed mostly of common and generalist species, which are under-represented in historical data. Stratified random sampling seems to be a suitable tool for doing this. Nevertheless, a methodology and input data for stratification have to be developed to make stratified random sampling an ecologically more relevant and practical method.
41245531|Pure and mixed beech forest vegetation of the southern Rodopi range (northeast Greece) was studied using 614 relevs and multivariate analyses (TWINSPAN and DCA). Classification of the relevs resulted in 12 vegetation units, 8 of which were ranked as associations or communities and the rest as subcommunities and variants. DCA diagrams of relevs and taxa indicated that floristic differentiation was attributed mainly to factors such as altitude (affecting temperature and humidity), soil nutrient content and substrate type (affecting physical and chemical soil properties). Differential taxa of vegetation units were chosen based on their phi coefficient values, which were calculated from three different percentage synoptic tables that corresponded to three ranks (ecological groups, associations and communities, and subcommunities and variants) of floristic differentiation. The calculation of phi coefficient on the basis of relative constancy of taxa helps to overcome the problem of the dependence of fidelity values on the number of relevs per vegetation unit and to facilitate the better investigation of the floristic differentiation even of rare vegetation units represented by a small number of relevs. Furthermore, the calculation of fidelity values for different hierarchical levels enables a more detailed and thorough investigation of the floristic differentiation of the vegetation units.
23264901|This paper presents the results of a multivariate morphometric study of leaf anatomical characters in different populations of Sesleria rigida sensu lato in Serbia. Morphometric analyses were performed on cross-sections of 521 tiller leaves collected from 21 populations of S. rigida. Principal component analysis and canonical discriminant analysis were used to identify the structure of variability and to determine which variables discriminate between the groups. The UPGMA (unweighted pairgroup average linkage) clustering analyses based on leaf anatomical characters and habitat climatic characteristics were employed to explore whether the observed anatomical differences are a result of adaptive responses. Regression analysis (linear regression) was performed to identify the level of correlation between leaf anatomical characters and basic orographic, geological, and bioclimatic habitat characteristics. DIVA-GIS software was used to extract 19 bioclimatic parameters from the WorldClim set of global climate layers. Our detailed analyses have shown that the studied populations are anatomically very well differentiated into the serpentine populations from western Serbia and carbonate populations from eastern Serbia. The regression analysis has shown that the geological substrate (serpentinites vs. carbonates) represents the most significant abiotic factor that is correlated with the anatomical differentiation of the populations in the studied area. Besides the geological substrate, bioclimatic parameters such as precipitation and habitat humidity are also highly correlated with the leaf anatomical characters, which was not the case with temperature.
25134106|The genus Rhinanthus (Orobanchaceae) consists of annual hemiparasites that occur in a wide range of climates. Patterns of dormancy and germination were studied for six species sampled in areas ranging from the Pyrenees to Northern Scandinavia, and from sea level up to about 2500 m altitude in the Alpine region. Dormancy was broken by a 2 to 6 months period of cold stratification. Optimal temperature and length of the stratification period appeared to vary between and within species. Two patterns of dormancy and germination were distinguished. Seeds of the first group, including the widely distributed R. minor and R. angustifolius, further referred to as the LW group, require a relatively long period of cold stratification. Moreover, their germination is accelerated if they are subjected to a widening range of higher temperatures in the last weeks of the stratification period. In the other species (R. alectorolophus, R. glacialis, R. mediterraneus and perhaps R. antiquus) the release of dormancy is completed in a rather short period. Higher temperatures in the last weeks of the stratification period hardly affect the germination process of this SN-group, with short dormancy and no accelerated germination at higher temperatures. In both groups, temperatures above the low values during stratification reduce germination percentages and induce secondary dormancy in non-germinated seeds. The effects strongly vary with timing and temperature. The patterns have a genetic basis and seem to be species-specific. They do not vary with climate conditions, since samples R. minor, whether collected in sub-arctic or sub-alpine areas or at sea level, generally react according to the LW pattern, and samples of R. alectorolophus from areas at sea level up to montane regions according to the SN one. The ecological significance of the various stratification requirements and effects of higher temperatures on germination is discussed in relation to the local climate of the species and the evolutionary history of the genus.
4201362|The Rorippa pyrenaica group is represented in the area of Balkan Peninsula by R. pyrenaica (diploid), R. lippizensis (diploid), and R. thracica (diploid and tetraploid). They differ morphologically from all other European Rorippa species by their pitted reticulate seed surface. Rorippa pyrenaica is characterized by ovoid elipsoidal siliculae, up to three times shorter than pedicels. Rorippa thracica and R. lippizensis possess linear siliquae, equal or longer than pedicels, they differ in length of fruits and length of petals. For all three species full synonymy, geographical distribution, ecological characteristics and karyotype data are provided.
23064974|Carex magellanica subsp. irrigua is a wet habitat taxon that is extinct or declining in the Baltic States and Central Europe, but still quite common in northern areas, in Fennoscandia and Alaska. We investigated the extent of genetic variation within and among populations and geographic regions of this subspecies. Isozyme electrophoresis in polyacrylamide gels was applied to characterize genetic diversity with allozymes as genetic markers. Of the nine putative isozyme loci assessed, five (56%) were found to be polymorphic. The genetic diversity in small and fragmented Estonian populations was lower (H=0.034) than in larger Fennoscandian and Alaskan populations (average H=0.082). All standard genetic parameters (A, H, H, P, F is , t) showed the lowest values in Estonian populations. The heterozygosity level in Fennoscandian populations was low (H=0.01), whereas no heterozygotes were found in Estonian and Alaskan populations. High F is values indicate that C. magellanica subsp. irrigua is predominantly inbreeding. The main reason for its decline in Estonia is the destruction of suitable habitats. More attention to the protection of Estonian habitats is needed to maintain genetic diversity and stop further decline of this taxon.
23065010|Earlier observations that plant clonality, i.e., production of potentially independent offspring by vegetative growth, increase in importance in cold climates such as in arctic and alpine regions, have been recently questioned. However, lack of data obtained using a comparable methodology throughout different regions limit such comparisons. Here we present a classification of clonal growth forms for vascular plants from East Ladakh (an arid mountain range in NW Himalaya, India), and assess the relationship of these forms with multiple environmental gradients. Based on field assessment of clonality in 540 species we distinguished 20 growth forms, which were then grouped into four broader space occupancy strategies. Occurrence in communities and relationship with environmental characteristics and altitude were analyzed using multivariate methods. The most abundant growth form was represented by non-clonal perennial species with a pleiocorm having short branches, prevailing in steppes, Caragana shrubs and screes. The most abundant clonal species were those with very short epigeogenous rhizomes, such as turf graminoids prevailing in wet Kobresia grasslands. Two principal environmental gradients, together with several abiotic variables, affected space occupancy strategies: moisture and altitude. Non-spreading integrators prevailed on shaded rocky slopes, non-spreading splitters in wet grasslands and spreading splitters at the wettest sites. Spreading integrators were the least frequent strategy predominantly occurring at the most elevated sites. Because relevance of clonality decreased with altitude and different communities host different sets of clonal growth strategies, comparison with other cold climate regions should take multiple environmental gradients into account.
23064945|For root hemiparasites, host plants are both the source of water and nutrients below-ground, but competitors for light above-ground. Hemiparasites can reduce host biomass, and in this way considerably affect the whole plant community. To investigate these effects, we carried out two experiments in an oligotrophic meadow with a native population of Rhinanthus minor. In the first experiment, removal of R. minor was combined with fertilization in a factorial design, and in the second one, we manipulated R. minor density by thinning. The presence of R. minor decreased the biomass of its host community, mostly by suppressing grasses. In this way, the species was able to counterbalance the effect of fertilization, which increased community biomass and in particular that of grasses. Neither the presence of R. minor nor fertilization affected the total number of species or the Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H') of the host community. However, H' of grasses was higher and H' of forbs (non-leguminous dicots) was lower in the presence of R. minor. Reduction of grasses by R. minor favored mainly the dominant forb Plantago lanceolata, which partly acquired the role of a competitive dominant. Effects of R. minor on community diversity seem to be highly dependent on the relative sensitivities of dominant and subordinate species. Fertilization increased the mortality of seedlings, resulting in a lower number of flowering plants. However, surviving individuals on average produced more flowers. Thinning resulted in lower mortality of R. minor plants. This indicates that intraspecific competition in R. minor populations results in negative density dependence.
25133939|In the phytosociological literature, there are numerous different approaches to the designation of diagnostic species. Frequently, this results in discrepancies between the lists of diagnostic species published for one and the same community. We examined different approaches to determining diagnostic species using as an example Picea abies forests within the broader context of all Central European forests. Diagnostic species of spruce forests were determined from a data set of 20,164 phytosociological relevs of forests from the Eastern Alps, Western Carpathians, and the Bohemian Massif, which included 3,569 relevs of spruce forests. Phi coefficient of association was used to measure species fidelity, and species with the highest fidelities were considered as diagnostic. Diagnostic species were determined in four ways, including (A) comparison of spruce forests among the three mountain ranges, (B) comparison between spruce forests and other forests, performed separately in each of the mountain ranges, (C) simultaneous comparison of spruce forests of each of the mountain ranges with spruce forests of the other two ranges and with the other forests of all ranges, (D) comparison of spruce forests with the other forests, using pooled data sets from the three mountain ranges. The sets of diagnostic species of spruce forests yielded in comparisons A and B were sharply different; the set resulting from comparison C was intermediate between the first two and comparison D resulted in similar diagnostic species as comparison B. In comparison A, spruce forests of the Eastern Alps had a number of diagnostic species, while the spruce forests of the other two mountain ranges had only few diagnostic species. In comparison B, by contrast, the number and quality of diagnostic species decreased from the Bohemian Massif to the Eastern Alps. This exercise points out that lists of diagnostic species published in phytosociological literature are dependent on the context, i.e. the underlying data sets and comparisons: some of these lists are useful for identification of vegetation units at a local scale, some others for distinguishing units within a narrowly delimited community type over a large area. The thoughtless application of published lists of diagnostic species outside of the context for which they were intended should therefore be avoided.
4201276|Vegetation and soil sampling were carried out in 80 plots located in five different ultramafic (serpentine) sites of Tuscany, central Italy. The physical and chemical features of each plot were determined and the species composition and cover recorded. The exchangeable fraction of soil metals was analysed because it gives a measure of their concentrations available to plants. The plots were classified by cluster analysis and ANOVA was used to compare the environmental variables of the groups of plots. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to detect the principal factors for gradients of species composition within the plant communities. A higher content of exchangeable metals was found under the more evolved and structured plant communities, suggesting that serpentine vegetation of Tuscany is not strongly limited by soil metals, such as chromium, cobalt, nickel and magnesium, typically associated with ultramafic soils. The low nutrient content of the soils and drought stress mainly due to topographical features, appear to have a more significant role in determining the typical scattered vegetation of the Tuscan ultramafics.
41245548|To examine gender-related developmental instability and herbivory of a plant across a steep climatic gradient, we studied Pistacia atlantica DESF., a dioecious tree of the Irano-Turanian zone in the Middle East.Leaves were sampled from five populations along a climatic gradient in Israel from mesic Mediterranean to xeric (and geographically peripheral) sites. Leaves of the xeric populations were ca. 25% smaller in size (length) than leaves of other populations. Leaf developmental instability (an indicator of stress) was examined using the measurement of leaf asymmetry (LA), estimated by the deviation from the origin of paired lateral leaflets and by the presence vs. absence of the terminal leaflet. LA was not correlated with the climatic (site) gradient and had the highest, though not significantly, levels in the intermediate ecotonal zone between the Mediterranean and the arid ecosystems. Male trees were 13% higher in LA than females. Density of two specialist gall-forming aphids varied with site but was not affected by plant gender. Gender-related developmental instability is discussed in relation to resource allocation in early spring. Because the study was limited to five populations further research is clearly needed.
25133810| A growth model of Phragmites australis was verified using two independent sets of published field data. The model simulates the growth pattern of a well-established, monospecific stand of P. australis in the absence of genetic diversity and environmental stresses of mainly nutrient and water deficiency. The model formulated using first order differential equations was combined with plant phenology and comprises five subroutines in which photosynthetically active radiation, shoot, root, rhizome and new rhizome biomass are calculated. Using the model, experimental results were reproduced within reasonable limits having concordance correlation coefficients of more than 0.75 for 70% of the output parameters, which was the main objective of the study. The modelled efficiencies of PAR were 7.15% and 3.09%, as opposed to 7.7% and 2.53% in experimental estimations, for Loch of Forfar and Loch of Balgavies, respectively. Production and seasonal fluxes of dry matter of P. australis in Scottish lochs were estimated using the modelled quantities for the 1975 growing season in g m. They showed that 31% and 37% of total net photosynthate translocated to rhizomes before shoot senescence began in Loch of Forfar and Loch of Balgavies, respectively. Also in both lochs approximately 45% of total downward translocation came from accumulated shoot dry matter during senescence, while the rest came from photosynthesis before the shoots started to senesce. 
23264900|Distribution ranges of plant species are related to physical variables of ecosystems that limit plant growth. Therefore, each plant species response to physical factors builds up the functional diversity of an ecosystem. The higher the species richness of an ecosystem, the larger the probability of maintaining functions and the higher the potential number of plant functional groups (FGs). Thus, the richness potentially increases the number of functions of the highly diverse Atlantic Rainforest domain in Brazil. Severe plant growth limitations caused by stress, however, decrease species richness. In the Spodosols of the Mussununga, an associated ecosystem of Atlantic Rainforest, the percentage of fine sand is directly related to water retention. Moreover, the depth of the cementation layer in the Mussununga's sandy soil is a physical factor that can affect the plants' stress gradients. When a shallow cementation layer depth is combined with low water retention in soils and with low fine sand percentage, the double stresses of flooding in the rainy season and water scarcity in the dry season result. This study aimed to identify FGs among Mussununga plant species responding to water stress gradients of soil and to verify the effects of the gradients on plant species richness of the Mussununga. A canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) of species abundance and soil texture variables was performed on 18 plots in six physiognomies of the Mussununga. Species richness rarefactions were calculated for each vegetation form to compare diversity. The two main axes of the CCA showed two FGs responding to soil texture and cementation layer depth: stress tolerator species and mesic species. Physical variables affect plant diversity, with species richness rising as the fine sand proportion also rises in the Mussununga. The effect of the cementation layer is not significantly related to species richness variation.
4201350|Morphological and coenological differences between closely related species Stellaria nemorum L. and S. montana Pierrat are described. Stellaria montana is frequent in Slovenia and occurs mostly in the montane belt (altitude 600-1200 m). It has been recorded in thirty two forest communities (associations or lower syntaxa). Although widely distributed in Europe S. nemorum is more rare in Slovenia. It occurs mostly in upper-montane (altimontane) and subalpine belt (altitude 1200-1600 m) in ten forest or shrubby communities. Both, S. nemorum and S. montana are valuable diagnostic species for certain associations. They characterize sites with fresh soil, rich in nitrogen. As an example we present two syntaxa of beech forests of Slovenia, in which the species of the S. nemorum group have high constancy and cover value.
25134070|Molecular and morphological variation in the Balkan diploid Cardamine acris was studied by amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and multivariate morphometric analyses. Principal coordinate analysis and neighbour-joining analysis of the AFLP data showed three genetically differentiated groups of populations corresponding to their geographic origin. Following the results of molecular analysis three subspecies were recognized by a combination of morphological characters as shown by separate analyses of field-collected and cultivated plants. These subspecies are allopatric; C. acris subsp. acris occurs in most parts of the Balkan Peninsula, and newly described subsp. pindicola and subsp. vardousiae are endemic to the Northern Pindhos Mts. in Northwestern Greece, and Central Greece, respectively. The differentiation into geographically isolated subspecies is most probably caused by long-term isolation of populations in different mountain ranges of the Balkan Peninsula, possibly initiated during the cold periods of the Pleistocene.
25134081|Morphological parameters of Festuca rubra clones and their response to differences in the red/far red ratio (R: FR) were investigated in a growth chamber experiment. The twenty-four clones tested came from 15 micro-sites in three neighbouring meadow communities in the Krkonoe Mts. (Czech Republic). The community types were characterized by different canopy height and structure, and by different radiation conditions (relative R: FR) within the canopies. Low R: FR treatment resulted in reduced tillering and stimulated shoot elongation in most of the clones. In some clones, low R: FR ratios stimulated extravaginal tillering and rhizome system formation. The origin of the clones (i.e., community type) explained a part of variation in morphological parameters, but did not explain variation in the response to R: FR levels. Evidence for a consistent relationship between clone performance and radiation environment in the micro-sites from where the clones originated was not found. It seems that there is only limited selection of F. rubra clones (ecotypes) specialized for particular community types and no selection of clones specialized for particular micro-sites within communities.
25134071|The identity of plants morphologically intermediate between Potamogeton crispus and P. perfoliatus from two recently discovered sites, one in Moravia, Czech Republic and another in Wales, United Kingdom, was investigated with molecular markers. Evidence from restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of the nuclear internal transcribed spacer region of ribosomal DNA and of the trnK-trnQ chloroplast DNA intergenic spacer confirmed the morphology-based determination of two putative hybrid samples as P. xcooperi. The hybrids showed the ITS variants of both parental taxa, consistent with the expected biparental inheritance of nuclear DNA. The chloroplast DNA markers indicate P. crispus as the female parent in both hybridization events. The hybrid origin of another dubious sample was excluded by the molecular data, in accordance with previous detailed morphological examination. This plant represented an extreme, narrow-leaved form of P. perfoliatus, imitating P. xcooperi in some characters. The results of the molecular analyses are discussed in relation to the morphology of the plants. They underline that some Potamogeton hybrids could indeed be identified by careful and detailed morphological examination and also that these identifications were reliable and confirmed by molecular markers. This study exemplifies that long-term taxonomic expertise usually generates very well-founded specific questions suitable for straightforward treatment by appropriate molecular methods. The process and ecological implications of hybrid formation are also discussed.
4201267| Using the Braun-Blanquet approach, 7 plant communities of forests and 3 communities of krummholz were distinguished on the Svyatoi Nos Peninsula on the eastern coast of Lake Baikal. Dominant species of these communities are Abies sibirica, Larix sibirica, Pinus sibirica, P. sylvestris, P. pumila and Betula divaricata. The data from Svyatoi Nos were combined with all the available data from the northern part of the Republic of Buryatia (289 relevs) and classified into 23 communities. These have been assigned to the following alliances: Aconito rubicundi-Abietion sibiricae - floodplain forests with tall forbs and the relict occurrence of a few nemoral species, Pino sibiricae-Laricion sibiricae - mesic forests with (sub-Atlantic-) boreal species and abundant mosses, Vaccinio-Pinion pumilae - krummholz communities of NE Asian distribution, Cladonio stellaris-Laricion gmelinii - Larix gmelinii dominated open forests on permafrosts with NE Asian distribution, and Hieracio umbellati-Pinion sylvestris - xeric forests with southern Siberian species. Phytogeographical affinities of these alliances are discussed and a system of high-ranked syntaxa (orders, classes) is proposed for the northern Buryatian forests and krummholz. 
25133996|Chromosome counts in 16 populations of five Artemisia species from Poland are presented in this paper. Those of A. annua (2n=18) and A. dracunculus (2n=90) are reported for the first time in Polish populations. The decaploid level (2n=90) is described for the first time in non-cultivated populations of A. dracunculus, and several cases of aneusomaty (intraindividual aneuploid variations in chromosome number: 2n=87, 88 and 89) have been detected in this species. In addition to the already known diploid number (2n=18), the tetraploid level (2n=36) has been detected in A. absinthium. The same two numbers have been recorded in A. abrotanum, which represents the first tetraploid count in populations of this taxon occurring outside botanical gardens. Finally, the chromosome number of Artemisia campestris subsp. sericea (tetraploid, 2n=36) is reported for the first time. The relevance of polyploidy for the evolution of the genus and other cytotaxonomic or cytobiogeographical aspects are briefly discussed.
4201325|Reproductive success of a deceptive species, Orchis morio, was investigated in relation to floral display, vertical position of fruits and dispersion pattern. A caging experiment confirmed the necessity of the presence of insect vectors for fruit development. In two Czech populations studied in 1997, insect-pollinated plants had on average 27.3 and 38% fruit set, compared to 96.7% for flowers pollinated by hand. Floral display (number of flowers per spike) was expected to positively affect the probability of pollinator visit. However, fruit set (number of fruits per spike) did not increase linearly with increasing floral display, but rose sigmoidally and approached an asymptotic value. Floral display enhanced reproductive success (fruit/flower ratio) up to a certain number of flowers (11-14), above which the relationship started to decrease and only increased the probability of production of at least one fruit. We also studied the effect of flower position within an inflorescence on the probability of being pollinated and we counted the number of seeds per capsule. A rapid decline in fruit set from the bottom to the top of the inflorescence observed probably reflects the behaviour of pollinators. The number of seeds per one capsule varied from 550 to 12 270. In addition, individuals growing in large clumps or isolated had lower reproductive success than those growing in small clumps. This result implies the existence of an intraspecific competition for pollinators and on the other hand inability of isolated individuals to attract a large number of pollinators.
25134052|Taxonomic considerations and nomenclatural adjustments as a part of a revision of Linaria Mill. undertaken within the "Flora iberica" project are presented. Data on morphology, seed coat surface, chorology, ecology, synonymy and variability of 11 accepted taxa are reported. The following new combinations are proposed: Linaria aeruginea subsp. cardonica (Font Quer) L. Sez et M. Sainz, Linaria depauperata subsp. ilergabona (M.B. Crespo et V.J. Arn) L. Sez, and Linaria saturejoides subsp. angustealata (Willmott) L. Sez et M.B. Crespo.
4201344|Small changes in morphology can affect the performance and functions of organisms and hence their ecological success. In modular constructed plants, contrasting growth strategies may be realized by differences in the spatial arrangement and size of shoots. Such differences change the way in which meristems and resources are assigned to various functions during the lifespan of a plant. If such changes include the capacity to spread clonally, sexual reproduction may also be affected. I compare patterns in vegetative growth and sexual reproductive traits in four allopatric species of Epilobium which are sometimes considered as subspecies of a single polymorphic taxon. The four species differ in the location of the buds which annually renew the aerial shoot system. E. dodonaei and E. steveni do not spread clonally and are characterized by a shrub-like habit. E. fleischeri, a species occurring only in the Alps, and E. colchicum, which occurs in the upper region of the Caucasus mountains, both produce buds on horizontal roots or plagiotropic shoots. Both alpine species exhibiting clonal growth have smaller shoots, fewer fruits and smaller seeds than the lowland species. An intraspecific trade-off between seed number per fruit and seed mass is realized. Both alpine species produce more seeds per fruit at the expense of seed mass. The morphological relationship between the four species and their geographical distribution suggest that clonal growth in E. fleischeri (restricted to the Alps) and E. colchicum (restricted to the Caucasus) is adaptively associated with the stressful conditions of alpine habitats. Our results suggest that clonal growth is not necessarily correlated with reduced reproduction by seeds. The success of plants which are already established may largely depend on clonal spread, but the colonization of new habitats depends on the production of a large number of small seeds with high dispersability.
23264877|We transplanted Sphagnum 'turfs' containing abundant Drosera rotundifolia into an existing nitrogen deposition experiment at Whim Moss near Edinburgh. These mesocosms received simulated N deposition as either NH 4 + or NO 3 - , to give total N deposition rates of approximately 8, 16 or 32, or 64 kg N ha -1 year -1 . Simulated N deposition was added in a realistic way (i.e., with rainfall throughout the year). The  15 N of this added N was elevated relative to background N. We measured the tissue chemistry and  15 N of Sphagnum papillosum and D. rotundifolia over two years after transplant. Our aim was to determine uptake of the deposited N and the impact on S. papillosum tissue chemistry and D. rotundifolia tissue chemistry and ecology. We found clear, significant impacts of N deposition on S. papillosum, with increased capitula N content and reduced C:N ratio. Increased  15 N indicated uptake of deposited N. The response of D. rotundifolia was less clear with impacts only at the highest rate of N deposition. There was no evidence of differential uptake of reduced or oxidized wet N deposition by either S. papillosum or D. rotundifolia. Using the natural abundance stable isotope method we estimated the minimum contribution of prey N to the total N in D. rotundifolia to be 35%. The results suggest that differences in the uptake of reduced or oxidized wet N deposition might not be ecologically significant when wet N deposition is added realistically. They also support the suggestion that a model of N dynamics in Sphagnum-dominated ecosystems that includes the role of Sphagnum as a small-scale ecosystem engineer, is required to predict vascular plant responses to N deposition accurately.
25134020|We experimentally demonstrated the ability of three short-lived monocarpic species to vegetatively regenerate (resprout) from roots after severe disturbance. We assessed the relationship between resprouting ability and (1) timing of injury with respect to life-cycle stage (reproductive vs. vegetative plant), life-history mode (annual vs. winter annual) and phenological stage (flowering vs. fruiting plant), (2) nutrient availability, and (3) disturbance severity (removal of all axillary buds Yes/No). In a chamber experiment with the annual or potentially winter annual Rorippa palustris, all injured plants resprouted in all nutrient levels and day-length regimes (day-length regimes simulated conditions of an annual and a winter annual cohort). The number of adventitious buds on roots was positively affected only by injury. The extent of regeneration and amount of regenerated biomass were higher at high nutrient level and long-day regime. In a field experiment with the biennials, Oenothera biennis and Oenothera issleri, both species responded to injuries by resprouting from axillary buds when at least only one axillary bud was still present. However, they were also able to resprout from adventitious buds on roots. Reproductive plants resprouted more frequently at the flowering stage than at the fruiting stage. Resprouting of vegetative plants (rosettes) was equal throughout the year and more frequent than in the reproductive plants.
23064955|Helichrysum nicolai from the Cape Verdean island of So Nicolau is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The systematic position in Helichrysum of this acaulescent dwarf rosette shrub with heterogamous capitula, in which the female flowers outnumber the hermaphrodite ones, is established using an ITS phylogeny based on maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference analyses. The new species is most closely related to the Canary Island endemics H. alucense and H. monogynum. The closest relative to these three species are not the other members of the genus on the mid-Atlantic archipelagos but H. somalense from the Horn of Africa region and the southern Arabian Peninsula and the widespread tropical African-S Arabian-SE Iranian H. glumaceum, to which the SE Iranian H. makranicum is found to be conspecific. The phytogeographical significance of these relationships is discussed and at least three independent colonization events of the mid-Atlantic archipelagos by Helichrysum are concluded from the molecular data available.
25133759|Sporopollenin layers in the cell wall of coccal green algae are responsible for the resistance of cell walls to destructive processes during fossilization as well as during chemical preparation of samples for pollen-analysis. Pollen slides of samples from limnic sediments thus also contain some algal cell walls. Although some pollen-analysts tried to stress this fact, the finds of algae in pollen slides have not been paid systematic attention yet, despite their potential use for a more accurate palaeoecological reconstruction. The article summarizes the results of palaeoecological studies showing how the algae can be used in palaeoecological reconstruction of past environments. The possibility of utilizing the indicative value of algal finds is demonstrated on examples of algal communities from fossil, subrecent and recent sediments from different longitudes, latitudes, and altitudes. The identification and indicative values of species and varieties of Pediastrum are included in a special review (Komrek & Jankovsk, Biblioth. Phycol., in press). The contemporary knowledge of ecological requirements of the given taxa, completed by information from their fossil finds, makes possible the reconstruction of trophic and temperature conditions and of the purity of the water environment of the past water biotopes.
23064930|The factors responsible for the patterns of niche differentiation and narrow endemism have rarely been investigated in annual Mediterranean plants. This topic was addressed here by performing comparative studies on realized niches, regional occupancy, global biogeographical distribution and seed traits of a set of Arenaria (Caryophyllaceae) species inhabiting southern Provence (SE France), focusing in particular on Arenaria provincialis, a narrow endemic restricted to the hills and modest calcareous mountains around the city of Marseille. Field studies were carried out from 2008 to 2009 at 624 sites in the limestone mountains where Arenaria species are likely to occur. The Arenaria species occurring in southern Provence vary greatly in their patterns of regional occupancy and their biogeographical distribution. Multivariate analysis of the realized niche showed that they have some similar limiting environmental factors in common, but they do not all occupy the same habitats. Studies on the fruits and seeds showed that the endemic A. provincialis has a larger seed than its congeners and a capsule that remains closed and falls from the plant at maturity. This well-differentiated diaspore specific to A. provincialis may be responsible for the limited dispersal capacity of this species. Phylogenetic analyses showed that A. provincialis is not closely related to the other taxa inhabiting southern Provence, but rather to Arenaria occurring in highland areas in the south of France. The restricted pattern of distribution of A. provincialis is probably due to the past isolation event from which it originated and to its limited dispersal capacity, rather than resulting from its ecological niche range.
41245506|The currently dominating hypothetico-deductive research paradigm for ecology has statistical hypothesis testing as a basic element. Classic statistical hypothesis testing does, however, present the ecologist with two fundamental dilemmas when field data are to be analyzed: (1) that the statistically motivated demand for a random and representative sample and the ecologically motivated demand for representation of variation in the study area cannot be fully met at the same time; and (2) that the statistically motivated demand for independence of errors calls for sampling distances that exceed the scales of relevant pattern-generating processes, so that samples with statistically desirable properties will be ecologically irrelevant. Reasons for these dilemmas are explained by consideration of the classic statistical Neyman-Pearson test procedure, properties of ecological variables, properties of sampling designs, interactions between properties of the ecological variables and properties of sampling designs, and specific assumptions of the statistical methods. Analytic solutions to problems underlying the dilemmas are briefly reviewed. I conclude that several important research objectives cannot be approached without subjective elements in sampling designs. I argue that a research strategy entirely based on rigorous statistical testing of hypotheses is insufficient for field ecological data and that inductive and deductive approaches are complementary in the process of building ecological knowledge. I recommend that great care is taken when statistical tests are applied to ecological field data. Use of less formal modelling approaches is recommended for cases when formal testing is not strictly needed. Sets of recommendations, "Guidelines for wise use of statistical tools", are proposed both for testing and for modelling. Important elements of wise-use guidelines are parallel use of methods that preferably belong to different methodologies, selection of methods with few and less rigorous assumptions, conservative interpretation of results, and abandonment of definitive decisions based a predefined significance level.
23264770|Coastal dune ecosystems are subjected to severe stress and disturbance factors that are particularly high in the beach-foredune environment and generally decrease with distance from the coast. The present study aimed to link plant species composition of coastal foredunes with the physical dynamical processes of the coastline in central Italy. A random hierarchical sampling design, based on two spatial scales (quadrant and parcel), was applied to estimate the variation in plant community composition. Permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) revealed an approximately similar amount of variation with respect to both the coastal dynamic class and the parcel level. In addition, principal coordinate analyses showed that three taxa  Ammophila arenaria, Elymus farctus and Otanthus maritimus subsp. maritimus  were mainly linked to the coastal dynamics: A. arenaria increases its abundance where erosion of the shoreline is very high, while E. farctus and O. maritimus are more abundant in the prograding coast. Finally, similarity percentages analysis (SIMPER) highlighted that where the erosive processes were strongest, the number of the species contributing to the total similarity was the highest. This is likely to indicate instability and a strong disturbance of plant communities that results in an unstable equilibrium. These findings have important implications for management and conservation actions.
41245547|Flooded forests in 79 sample areas were studied throughout the country. Using multivariate methods, six community types were established: (i) Tilia cordata-Mercurialisperennis, (ii) Ulmus laevis-Allium ursinum, (iii) Populus tremula-Convallaria majalis, (iv) Alnus incana-drsium oleraceum, (v) Alnus glutinosa--Filipendula ulmaria and, (vi) Alnus glutinosa-Carex acutiformis. The species composition of these types is partly overlapping but the abundance proportions of species are clearly different and all types have several significant (P < 0.05) indicator species. Communities of the first type grow mainly on temporarily overmoistened Dystri-Gleyic Arenosols on floodplain terraces but sometimes also in lower areas close to a riverbed on Eutric Gleysols or Gleyic Fluvisols. The second and third types embrace communities on levees where mainly Eutric Gleysols or Gleyic Fluvisols are represented. Communities of the fourth type are characteristic of low levees or flat areas with Mollic Fluvisols or Eutric Gleysols. The communities of the fifth and sixth types represent floodplain backswamp black alder forests on Eutric Gleysols, Molli-Histic and Histic Fluvisols. The convergence of communities, i. e., a situation where plant communities growing in various hydrological conditions and on different soils can have similar structure and belong to one community type is rather conspicuous for floodplain forests. In the conditions of Estonia, like in the Central European and Scandinavian countries, it is reasonable to consider as floodplain forest not only those growing on Fluvisols sensu stricto but all forests that are almost annually regularly covered with flood-water at least for a couple of weeks; the amount of alluvial sediments is not a decisive criterion in this case.
23264773|Species Distribution Models are key in modern ecological studies. They employ information about species locations and environmental factors to generate statistical functions that predict the potential distribution of species on the basis of landscape suitability. Although these models are powerful and useful tools, often the required information about species distribution is lacking, and the only resources are pre-collected museum data. Phytosociological databases contain a myriad of relevs with precious information, but are often considered to be the exclusive ownership of vegetation scientists. Our study tested the efficiency of a phytosociological database in the building of Species Distribution Models, including spatial autocorrelation (SAC) as a predictor to evaluate its effects on model performance. Spatial autocorrelation (SAC) is a natural characteristic of species distribution that depends on exogenous and endogenous processes. The latter's effects could be overestimated by a subjective sample choice. We chose Festuca riccerii, an Italian endemic species. We split the whole dataset (671 relevs) into a calibration (443 relevs) and testing set (228 relevs) and performed a GLM on these data to identify the main ecological factors that lead distribution in order to build a Species Distribution Model. The dataset's efficiency was assessed by testing the predicting power of the calibrated model on the testing subset. The phytosociological database proved to be good for building model (AUC=0.821), providing a useful basis for fast and low cost ecological analysis, and could be used subsequently for more detailed analyses.
25133881|Meteorological stations located in the lower areas of southern Switzerland have recorded a period with distinct milder winter conditions since 1970 as compared with the first half of the 20th century. The twofold set of climatic parameters, the absolute values and frequency of minimum temperatures as well as the length of the growing season have shifted towards warmer conditions in the last thirty years. In this paper, consequences of the lengthened growing season to 11 months are discussed. The detected climatic change supposedly favours species with evergreen broad-leaved growth form. With the analysis of 170 resurveyed relevs the hypothesis of whether the group of evergreen broad-leaved species have succeeded in profiting from this weakening of climatic constraints was verified. Conspicuous changes have been observed not only in terms of the abundance and frequency of indigenous evergreen braod-leaved species, but also with a number of exotic species sharing equal characteristics and having succeeded in colonizing forest areas and establishing stands in the shrub layer. It is suggested that in areas with a minimum temperature above -10 C and sufficient water supply throughout the year, evergreen broad-leaved species become increasingly competitive as soon as the growing season (days without frost) lengthens to about 300-320 days.
25134010|Although the relationship between soil reaction and species richness is of great theoretical interest, and has been relatively well studied in temperate latitudes, the southern Great Plains of North America have not received much attention. We analyzed the relationship between species richness and measures of soil reaction (pH, cation exchange capacity, Ca) in 418 10 m  10 m samples (with nested smaller quadrats) in the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve, Osage County, Oklahoma. We found a negative correlation of richness with soil reaction that is consistent across scales and years in grasslands, with soil calcium exhibiting the strongest relationships. The relationship in woodlands is weakly positive. The proportion of (primarily Eurasian) exotic species is positively related to calcium concentrations in both woodlands and grasslands. Although our results are not inconsistent with species pool hypotheses, critical tests of such hypotheses are operationally difficult.
23064497|In this paper we assess the relationship between the frequency of clonal traits and environmental factors in plant communities facing abiotic constraints imposed by an alpine environment. The study was conducted in the Vanoise Massif, inner part of the French Alps, at 1,620 to 2,800 m a.s.l. We sampled 169 communities that encounter a broad set of environmental constraints, and that were distributed over the entire Massif. For all species, we documented clonal traits using data available in the literature (e.g., the CLOPLA database), completed by other sources and our own measurements. Four traits that have previously been shown to be correlated with abiotic stress and disturbances were considered: duration of clonal integration, clonal production, spreading rate, and bud-bank size. Clonal characteristics of plant communities (aggregated traits) along the two main environmental gradients (altitude and duration of snow cover) were assessed. The distribution of clonal traits was significantly but weakly correlated with environmental factors. The duration of clonal integration and bud-bank size increased with altitude, and clonal production decreased. The duration of clonal integration and the size of the bud bank were also higher in snow beds. Scree communities were characterized by a high spreading rate and a large bud bank. The duration of integration was unexpectedly shorter in disturbance-prone habitats, and spatial mobility was unexpectedly higher in one of the most stressed habitats.
23486813|Traditionally managed village yards have been disappearing from the Central-European countryside. Their lawn flora is likely to provide a unique habitat for many plants that are adapted to this environment. Composition of lawn flora was investigated in differently managed village yards (i.e., regularly mown and regularly trampled yards, poultry yards, paved yards) in southwestern Hungary. The main goal of the study was to detect the impacts of these different management regimes on the composition and diversity of the vegetation. In total, 240 1-m 2 plots were sampled in 60 yards ranging from 80 m 2 to 5,000 m 2 in size. In the redundancy analysis, eight significant variables (degree of southness, slope, age, total size of yards; mowing, trampling and grazing regime; and the number of dogs) explained 16 % of the total variation in species data. The most diverse flora across yards was detected in the paved ones, and their stands also proved to be the most compositionally distinctive. In contrast, presence of domestic animals can contribute to local species loss as well as to a decrease in within-yard-type variability. These results highlight the importance of certain anthropogenic disturbances in maintaining high plant diversity, but also underline the crucial role of small-scale land management practices in rural environments.
4201326| On the basis of allozyme and cultivation data, and of additional herbarium material, a taxonomic and nomenclatural revision of Taraxacum sect. Piesis A.J. Richards ex Kirschner et tpnek is provided. The section is made up of halophilous, sexually reproducing taxa. In T. stenocephalum Boiss. et Kotschy, T. pindicum Kirschner et tpnek, sp. nov., and T. perenne Kirschner et tpnek, sp. nov., a tetraploid chromosome number has been recorded, representing the only known case of sexuality at the tetraploid level in the genus. The complex of T. stenocephalum, includes some geographically and morphologically extreme populations treated as subspecies: subsp. gumusanicum (Soest) Kirschner et tpnek, comb. nov., subsp. magnum Kirschner et tpnek, subsp. nov., and subsp. daralagesicum (Schischk.) Kirschner et tpnek, comb. nov. In addition to T. bessarabicum (Hornem.) Hand.-Mazz., a widely distributed Eurasian species, T. stenocephalum, a complex centred in Transcaucasia and Anatolia, and T. pachypodum H. Lindb., a North African endemic, four new species are described: T. salsum Kirschner et tpnek, sp. nov., a diploid endemic confined to E Crimea, T. perenne Kirschner et tpnek, sp. nov., a tetraploid sexual species known only from SW Crimea, T. pindicum Kirschner et tpnek, sp. nov., a remarkable tetraploid endemic to the Pindos Mts., Greece, and T. salsitatis Kirschner, tpnek et Yirdirimli, sp. nov., an Anatolian diploid species. Furthermore, a hybrid between T. salsum and T. bessarabicum from Crimea (documented on the basis of allozyme data elsewhere) is given a binomial, T. mesohalobium Kirschner et tpnek, nothosp. nov. 
23064571|Four hypotheses were tested using long-term observations of vegetation development (12 years) and present-day seed bank data in a sandy grassland area overgrazed by domestic geese: i) Gap regeneration is crucial in maintaining species richness; thus, closed vegetation of the lower sites prevents continuous establishment of short-lived species. ii) Short-lived, early successional species comprise most of the seed banks and late successional perennials have at most sparse seed banks. iii) Composition of seed banks is more similar to pioneer vegetation than to later successional stages. iv) The similarity is higher between vegetation and seed banks in the upper-positioned plots than in the closed, lower-positioned ones. Two sites, located in the upper part of dune slopes, and another two, positioned on the lower part, were studied. In each site five 22 m permanent plots were surveyed between 1991 and 2002. Percentage cover was estimated three times a year. In the last study year, soil seed banks were sampled. Two vertical segments (05, 510 cm) were separately analyzed. The seedling emergence method was applied on concentrated samples. We found that the vegetation developed from open, annual dominated weedy assemblages to grasslands dominated by perennial graminoids. In the lower-positioned sites perennial clonal grasses (Cynodon dactylon, Poa angustifolia and P. pratensis) formed more closed vegetation, which was accompanied by lower species richness compared to the upper-positioned sites. Seed density varied between 10,300 and 40,900 seeds/m. Significantly higher seed densities were found in upper sites than in the lower ones. Annuals and short-lived perennial dicots comprised most of the seed bank. The dominant perennial graminoids also built up dense seed banks. We found a low to medium similarity between vegetation and the seed bank; similarity was the highest with the vegetation of the 19941998 period. In the upper sites the similarity between seed bank and the vegetation of the last studied years was also high. The vertical position had a significant effect on regeneration after overgrazing. The large cover of grasses in lower sites decreased species richness and it also decreased the seed density preventing the seed bank formation of annuals and short-lived perennials. Here, further management practices are needed to increase the species richness.
25133857|A multivariate morphometric study based on 22 characters was carried out on samples of the 26 accepted species of the Eurasian and north-African genus Doronicum, to assess whether quantitative, mainly continuous, characters were of use in suggesting, delimiting and structuring natural groups. The study concentrated on three-medium sized to small groups: Mediterranean (D. plantagineum group), European (D. grandiflorum group), and central Asian. Two questions were addressed for each of these groups: species delimitation within them and the inclusion/exclusion of species of uncertain, but putative close affinities. Principal components analysis and discriminant analysis (canonical variates analysis), gave moderately satisfactory results. The addition of doubtfully-related species to presumably natural groups increased cohesiveness of the groups because the between-species differences were minimized when placed in a broader more diverse context. The relative status of the uncertain species, either as outliers or true members, was appropriately depicted by the scatterplots, but more convincingly solved when the species turned out to be outliers. Discrimination between species, which belong to cohesive groups was effective in some cases at least when using discriminant analysis, and the exceptions involved particularly problematic taxa. It was concluded that morphometric characters are a useful complementary source of information in groups where qualitative (in particular, shared) characters are scarce as is the case in Doronicum.
25134119|A first attempt to establish the phylogeny of the genera Echinops and Acantholepis has been carried out using the analysis of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) sequences of the nuclear ribosomal DNA including 30 Echinops species and the only species of the monotypic Acantholepis. The results of this analysis are discussed in the light of morphological and cytogenetic characters. The genus Acantholepis is placed in a robust clade with Echinops nanus, and together they appear in a basal position to other members of Echinops. The ITS phylogeny and several other characters, such as chromosome number and nuclear DNA amount, do not agree with the sections currently recognized within Echinops. Some groups are defined in the present approach, but further studies are necessary to reach a complete, stable and natural infrageneric classification of this genus.
