10.2307/1467193| Larvae of Enallagma boreale survived exposure to -1.0 C (53%) and -4.0 C (10%). Ability to survive was not related to rate of cooling or duration of exposure. Respiration rates ranged from 0.10 ml O
10.2307/3259453|A small substratum area of a brown-water stream was thoroughly disrupted at about 15-day intervals for 2.5 months. The disruptions resulted in a more homogeneous substratum, with relatively more gravel and less fine sand in the experimental area. Twenty of the 24 taxa had a smaller mean density in the experimental area by the end of the study. Of these taxa, 11 exhibited significantly (P < 0.05) smaller numbers in the experimental area. Nevertheless, considering how frequent and thorough the disturbances were, the overall effect could not be described as severe. Due to life cycle features of various species, many taxa increased in absolute abundances throughout the study in both the experimental and control areas. Unavoidable disturbances of substrata must be common in most streams where the fauna is studied intensively over long periods. Results of this study would indicate that routine sampling of the benthos in the Bigoray River would not have a pronounced effect, probably not even a discernible effect, on the structure of the stream community. Data of the Bigoray River study, and most other studies pertaining to recolonization, deal only with structure of the stream's community. The disturbances undoubtedly had a much greater impact on the underlying functional organization of the community.
10.2307/1467097|The distribution of Ephydatia fluviaatilis was considered at three habitat levels: lakewide distribution, littoral vertical distribution and rock surface preference. Lake-wide distribution was correlated with substrate type and the size and consistency of matrix particle composition. Exposure, ice scouring, silt accumulation and possible negative interactions with algae apparently affected the upper limits of the littoral vertical distribution. The lower limits were correlated with the adverse impact of silt abundance on sponge colony filtering capacity and larval settlement. Rock substrate found in water deeper than approximately 1.5 m maintained a relatively nonfluctuating, stable portion of the sponge population. At the third habitat level, rock surface preference, silt accumulation and possible harmful biotic interactions apparently caused the sponge to colonize the vertical and bottom surfaces of rubble.
10.2307/1467087| Food habits were determined monthly over one year for six species of invertebrate collectors in a Colorado trout stream. Detritus formed the bulk of the diet for each species with an algal contribution that was usually < 10%. The vast majority of particles in the foreguts were < 75 m in size and coincided with the most abundant size class of detritus in the stream. Dietary overlap as measured with Horn's Coefficient of Dietary Overlap was usually > 0.90 for type of food (algae vs. detritus) and particle size. This would indicate that no significant partitioning of food resources occurred among these six species of stream collectors. 
10.2307/1467196|Seventy-nine prespawning adult Nephelopsis obscura were isolated in laboratory culture for observation of reproductive behavior and assessment of cocoon production, length of spawning period and details of hatching and emergence. Results show that laboratory-held leeches mate, deposit cocoons and exhibit life cycle characteristics in concert with local wild populations. Comparisons are made with previous field studies of N. obscura and noticeable differences reported for pre-spawning weights and fecundity. Details of spermatophore implantation, cocoon deposition and fecundity are previously unpublished for this species in culture.
10.2307/1467147|The bait leech, Nephelopsis obscura, followed a 24-month life cycle in two natural ponds of northwestern Minnesota, Priem's Pond and Early's Pond. Clitellum development required an approximate minimum weight of 1.20 g and mature leeches died shortly after depositing cocoons on aquatic vegetation at midsummer. The onset of maturity was correlated to rising water temperature (r=0.98) and lengthening photoperiod (r=0.93). Seasonal depth movement of leeches was obseved in Priem's Pond and was attributed to oxygen depletion at lower depths during midsummer stagnation.
10.2307/3259436|An airlift pump to create a recirculating laboratory stream is described. Advantages of this device are: 1) no moving parts, 2) no screens or other small openings, and 3) low cost (ca. $10.00). The pump is built by heat-forming and gluing Plexiglas sheets. In an oval tank the pump produces a flow volume of 55 liters/min and current velocity of 35 cm/sec using 50 liters/min of compressed air.
10.2307/1467127|Extensive quantitative sampling of aquatic insects and factors known or suspected to affect their local distribution in streams was performed in three consecutive riffles in a hardwater stream of north central Texas, USA. This study revealed a strong upstream-biased distribution pattern of lotic insects within riffles. Twelve of sixteen taxonomic categories analyzed, representing 93.4% of the total numbers, showed a distinct pattern of distribution with greater abundance toward the heads of riffles. Density of insects was statistically correlated with several physical and chemical characteristics measured including quantity of coarse particulate organic matter on the substrate, quantity of fine particulate organic matter in transport, several substrate particle size classes, current, depth, dissolved oxygen and temperature. However, none of these variables were meaningfully correlated with distance from the heads of riffles, and therefore did not sufficiently explain distribution of the insect groups. Positive rheotaxis could have significant influence on distribution of insects in riffles. The observed distribution pattern indicates that filter-feeding riffle insects compete for high quality food items produced in upstream pools, and that density of macrobenthos within these riffles may be limited by the amount of high quality food available to them rather than by space.
10.2307/1467091|A new device for separation of stream invertebrates is described and its performance evaluated. The "cone elutriator" consists of a Schleicher and Schuell filtering apparatus attached to a standard Imhoff cone. Excellent recovery of organisms, ranging in length from 0.7 to 26 mm, was observed. Mean recovery from sand (excluding molluscs) was 93% and 98% from gravel. It appears that cross-sectional density is more important than the size of an organism in elutriation yield. Except for molluscs, no significant differences between sand and gravel extractions were observed (p=0.01).
10.2307/3259449|Annual production rates of a mayfly (tentatively Caenis sp. nr. amica: Ephemeroptera) inhabiting large outdoor channels at four diurnally and seasonally fluctuating temperature levels were calculated. Temperature levels were ambient Tennessee River temperature, and about 3, 6, and 9C above ambient. Caenis were sampled from December 1977 through September 1978. Emergence was accelerated 4 to 31 days by elevated temperatures. Long emergence periods (80 to 100 days) and size-frequency data indicated bivoltinism. Production in ambient temperatures 676.04 237.56mg D W / m<sup>2</sup>/ yr) was significantly greater than in any other temperature level. Production rates in the three elevated temperatures were 205.66 67.30mg DW/m<sup>2</sup> in + 3 channels, 272.86 78.23mg DW/m<sup>2</sup> in + 6 channels, and 271.10 93.47mg DW/m<sup>2</sup> in + 9 channels. These data imply that this population of Caenis is existing at or above its optimal temperatures.
10.2307/1467132|A survey of three species of Simulium (S. jenningsi, S. luggeri and S. fibrinflatum) was conducted from April to October, 1978, in the Adirondacks and Finger Lakes region of New York State. These species were distributed within the study area as follows: S. fibrinflatum, Adirondacks; S. luggeri, Finger Lakes region: and S. jenningsi, both areas. All three were found from June through September. Of the 21 limnological parameters studied, the most important in separating the species were pH and ionic concentration of the water. Simulium fibrinflatum occurred in mildly acidic to neutral, dilute streams whereas S. luggeri occurred in basic, rich streams. Simulium jenningsi was found in both types of streams.
10.2307/3259440| The reproductive biology of four mussel species (subfamily Lampsilinae), Villosa nebulosa, V. vanuxemi, Medionidus conradicus, and Lampsilis fasciola, was investigated during a 14-month study of the mussel community in Big Moccasin Creek, southwestern Virginia. Examination of histological sections of gonadal tissue from males and females of each species collected from April 1979 to May 1980 revealed that active gametogenesis proceeded throughout the year. Distinct and separate spawning periods for the four species in 1979 were as follows: M. conradicus, July 8-16; V. vanuxemi, July 25-30; V. nebulosa, August 13-20; and L. fasciola, late August. Periodic inspection of developing embryos in female marsupia indicated that glochidia of each species required 7 to 8 weeks to develop after fertilization. Mature glochidia were readily identified to genus but differentiation of V. nebulosa from V. vanuxemi was difficult. Drift nets (130-m mesh) set downstream from the mussel community captured glochidia of M. conradicus throughout the year except July and August; glochidia of V. vanuxemi from October to May; and glochidia of V. nebulosa from April to early August. Females of L. fasciola discharged glochidia from May to mid-August. 
10.2307/1467177|Epibenthic distributions at depths of 11, 17, and 23 m in nearshore Lake Michigan were investigated by sampling the sediments and water column on a monthly basis from May to November 1977. The taxa with a greater portion of the population occurring in/near the sediments than in the water column were Acanthocyclops vernalis, cyclopoid copepodids IV-V, and Eurytemora affinis. The taxa occurring mostly in the water column were early stage cyclopoids (nauplii and copepodids I-III) and Bosmina longirostris. For all epibenthic taxa except nauplii, abundances in/near the sediments declined as water depth increased; total mean densities at the 11, 17, and 23 m depths were 13,300; 3,500; and 1,500/m
10.2307/1467199|Chironomid larvae must generally be made more transparent prior to slide mounting to facilitate the observation of structures utilized in taxonomic identification. We present a new technique for clearing chironomid larvae using sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). This technique produces excellent contrast for viewing structures utilized in identification, especially many of the smaller details such as, Lauterborn organs and the antennal blade, that may be obscured by other techniques.
10.2307/1467162|In Morice Lake, New Brunswick, Elliptio complanata (Lightfoot) has a numerical density of 15.92 1.24/m
10.2307/1467123|Physa vernalis Taylor and Jokinen, n. sp., is described from temporary-water habitats of eastern Connecticut. It is strongly distinct from other species of the genus but most like P. jennessi of Arctic Siberia and North America. The anatomy of P. vernalis and the characteristics of the subgenus Beringophysa are compared to other subgenera of Physa in New England. Populations of Physa vernalis are generally found in temporary or small ponds, streams and ditches of soft water and low molluscan diversity.
10.2307/1467111|A comparative study of the post-glacial succession of chironomid communities in two closely located small lakes in the New Brunswick-Nova Scotia border area revealed initial similarities in their fauna, and a subsequent period of parallel evolution. Both lakes originally possessed a Tanytarsus-Heterotrissocladius community indicative of an oligotrophic lake environment. For much of the subsequent period, Tanytarsus remains dominant in both lakes. At about 4000 B.P., the development of the two lakes began to diverge. For Wood's Pond evidence suggests gradual encroachment by Sphagnum produced an acid, ombrotrophic environment. Subsequent to this encroachment, the Tanytarsus fauna typical of shallow, humic lakes was replaced by a peat-pool fauna with Chironomus and Monopectrocladius as dominants. The shift from Tanytarsus to Chironomus coincides with evidence for the beginning of settlement, suggesting human interference. Portey Pond did not become encircled by peat, and maintained a stable chironomid fauna throughout the post-glacial period and up to the present.
10.2307/1467090| Sense organs were viewed by SEM for Tubifex tubifex (Mller) and Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri Clap. Individual sense organs were broadly circular in shape; they were regularly distributed on the prostomium and were found in compact bands around the circumference of segments I-III for both species. L. hoffmeisteri had up to 15 cilia per organ, with cilia from 2 to 6 m in length. Diameter of sense organs ranged from 2 to 6 m and mean densities (SE) were 2( 0.1)/1000  m
10.2307/1467197|Mesothoracic legs of 10 of 12 species of adult female Hydropsychidae (not Parapsyche almota or P. elsis) are modified for swimming; at least four of the ten species are known to swim to stream substrates to oviposit. Modified tibiae and tarsi of females differed from those of males in being widened, concave, and often, with a fringe of longer hair on the posterior edge. Modified mesothoracic legs were also found on some adult female Glossosomatidae, Polycentropodidae, and Psychomyiidae. Differences in swimming modifications found among hydropsychids and glossosomatids suggest a diversity of ovipositing behavior within these families.
10.2307/1467164|The tubificid worm Variechaetadrilus fulleri (Annelida: Oligochaeta) was described by Brinkhurst and Kathman (1983) from the Green River, Kentucky, the only locality from which the species has previously been reported. In 1982-84, a number of specimens of V. fulleri were found in the lower Mississippi River and in an adjacent oxbow lake (Eagle Lake), about 19 river kilometers northwest of Vicksburg, Mississippi. In the lake, the species was collected in the inshore 1-m depth zone but not at 1.6-m depths offshore, where the waters stratified thermally in July and August and the dissolved oxygen concentration sometimes fell to 0.5 mg/liter in the hypolimnion.. The collection of sexually mature worms in the river in May 1982 and in Eagle Lake in January-February 1984 enabled us to describe anatomical details that refine the description of the species.
10.2307/1467170|The genus Helopicus is revised and three species are recognized. The male, female, nymph and egg of H. bogaloosa, a new species from the southeastern U.S., is described and a male holotype and female allotype are designated. Redescriptions of H. subvarians (Banks) and H. nalatus (Frison) are presented and adults and nymphs are keyed. Nymphs of the three species display distinctive pigmentation patterns and also have subtle differences in mouthparts. Males and females are separated on the basis of genitalic morphology and pigmentation patterns. Descriptions are supported by drawings and SEM micrographs.
10.2307/1467189| After identification and enumeration, specimens sorted from 18 benthic macroinvertebrate samples by two technicians were returned to corresponding sample residue. Unknown to technicians, the samples were remixed and relabeled with new collection dates and then sorted as if newly collected. By chance, 13 samples were sorted by both technicians. A two-tailed t-test (p0.05) indicated significant difference in number of sorted specimens, but no difference in sorting time and in number of sorted genera. 
10.2307/1467104|The hypothesis that active crustaceans have larger gill surfaces/unit body size than less active ones was tested with species of Anostraca. When compared to body volume and to dry body weight, total gill surface areas of planktonic existing Eubranchipus holmani were approximately 1.5 times larger than those of benthic existing E. vernalis. These results support the above hypothesis.
10.2307/1467098|A total of twenty-two species of Psychodidae was collected from two streams in northwestern Pennsylvania from 1979-1981, using aquatic emergence traps. At Fourmile Creek, 644 specimens were collected from two sites, one upstream and one downstream from a discharge of sewage effluent, while at another control site (Sixmile Creek), 257 specimens were collected. At the sewage affected site in 1981, 13 species were collected with Psychoda parthenogenetica (Tonnoir) accounting for 65% and Tinearia alternata (Say) 19% of the collection while at the upstream site 16 species were collected. Telmatoscopus quadripunctatus (Banks) accounted for 19% in 1981 and Tinearia limicola (Vaillant) 33% in 1980 at this upstream site. At Sixmile Creek in 1981, 13 species were collected and Quateiella interdicta (Dylar) (43%) was most abundant while in 1979 Panimerus basalis (Banks) (43%) was dominant. The tribe Psycodini was most abundant in the sewage-contaminated water while the tribes Pericomini and Tematoscopini were most abundant at the uncontaminated sites.
10.2307/1467150|Colonies of Urnatella gracilis Leidy and Nanocladius downesi (Steffan), Polypedilum sp. and Rheotanytarsus sp. larvae were discovered living phoretically on Corydalus cornutus (L.) larvae collected in the James River, Missouri. This is the first record for a phoretic association between U. gracilis and C. cornutus and the first record for chironomids living phoretically on C. cornutus in Missouri. Phoresy seems to provide U. gracilis with mobility and despersal within and out of the original habitat, protection from predation and habitat stability. Colonies in close proximity to the ventral abdominal gill tufts may also be provided with a constant source of oxygen-rich water containing food particles. Chironomid larvae were also in close proximity to the gill tufts but no specific segment site of attachment was observed.
10.2307/1467149|The spatial dispersion of invertebrates living on leaves of the floating-leaf plant Ludwigia peploides was observed in a small pond in South-central Texas. Seventy-two individual leaves were collected and invertebrate taxa were examined in relation to visually recognizable stages of leaf physiological condition and filamentous algal accumulation. The chydorid cladoceran Ephemeroporus acanthodes, ostracods, the amphipod Hyalella azteca, the naidid oligochaete Pristina sp., nematode worms, and chironomid and heleid larvae were more abundant on leaves having dense growth of filamentous algae than on leaves with sparse algal growth. Abundance of the daphniid cladoceran Ceriodaphnia quadrangula was inversely related to the amount of algae on the leaves. The small chydorids Alona spp. were more abundant on decaying or senescent leaves than on leaves in good condition, and cyclopoid copepods were most abundant on senescent leaves with dense algae.
10.2307/3259444|Procambarus a. acutus has been believed to occur continuously northward along the Atlantic coastal plain into southern New England. The absence of published records, and the inability to locate specimens during recent surveys from a large portion of southwestern New England indicates a discontinuity in the northern part of the subspecies' range. Other animals and plants show a similar range discontinuity in southern New England and several theories are available to explain the phenomenon.
10.2307/1467169|Dietary influences on growth and biochemical composition of the caddisfly Clistoronia magnifica were examined with a variety of diets including wheat, microbially conditioned alder, and wheat plus alder. Larvae receiving wheat were able to override direct temperature effects, while those on alder could not. Based on larval growth rates, and pupal weights and lipid contents, we concluded that alder alone was a poor quality food for late instar C. magnifica. A diet of alder plus wheat allowed the most growth, and produced the largest pupae, however pupae from larvae given just wheat had the largest lipid stores. Among-treatment differences in protein and lipid content, and fatty acid composition verified the importance of fatty acids synthesized from dietary carbohydrate. It appears that a carbohydrate source for the metabolism of storage lipid is a major requirement for late instar C. magnifica.
10.2307/1467095| Between February 1976 and January 1977, an ecological study was made of sandy riffle areas of Mill Creek, Newton County, Texas. The psammonic community in the main channel of Mill Creek consisted of midges, oligochaetes, flatworms, micro-crustaceans, nematodes and tardigrades. The six dominant psammonic taxa with their annual mean densities and standard deviations (10
10.2307/1467190|A technique that shortens the time of picking organisms from sampling debris is described. The technique uses a suction tube method that is particularly efficient for picking up very small organisms. The technique works very well when samples are preserved in the field with 95% ethanol containing 100 mg/liter rose bengal. The combination of preservation and picking reduced handling times from approximately seven hours to one hour for samples with high numbers of chironomids.
10.2307/1467153| A filter-feeding entrainment device was used for saturating small areas of a fast-flowing river with gut marker composed of DAY-GLO red fluorescent pigment with Wayne dog food used as the carrier. In water less than 30 cm deep, the entrainment device effectively concentrated the gut marker into a defined area of stream bottom. The gut marker was readily consumed by Hydropsyche venularis, H. morosa, H. sparna and the mayfly Isonychia bicolor, and was easily distinguishable from the brown and black colored natural food. Consumption of the gut marker began almost immediately, with 60% of H. venularis larvae having marker in their gut after 2 min. It may be possible to use the natural food of lotic filter-feeders (e.g., detritus) as the carrier rather than dog food. 
10.2307/1467181| The time courses of thermal acclimation for heat tolerances (critical thermal maxima, CTMax) and cold tolerances (critical thermal minima, CTMin) were examined in winter and summer for the crayfish Orconectes rusticus. The CTMax and CTMin were monitored at various intervals during a low (5 C) to high (25 C) temperature transfer or a high (25 C) to low (5 C) temperature transfer (summer only). CTMax and CTMin were higher in summer than in winter throughout most of the low to high temperature time course. Additionally, the loss of cold resistance and the gain in heat resistance occurred more rapidly in summer than in winter. The loss in cold resistance and gain in heat resistance were faster than their counterpart gain and loss in the high to low temperature transfer. Certain of these resistances for O. rusticus approached its range of ecologically encountered temperatures, and these acclimation responses may thus be adaptively important. Furthermore, the seasonal adjustments of the time courses of thermal acclimation enhance the ability of this species to compensate for changes in its natural environment. 
10.2307/3259432|Zoobenthic communities in two upper Mississippi River backwaters, a flowing side channel and a non-flowing slough, were examined during summer of 1978 to elucidate differences between herpobenthos and haptobenthos. Herpobenthos (sampled with Peterson grab) inhabit the bottom sediments; and haptobenthos (sampled with artificial substrates) are associated with, but do not penetrate, substrates such as snags, rootage, brush piles, or large rocks. Herpobenthos were more abundant in the slough than in the side channel, primarily because of comparatively high standing crops of Hexagenia and Chironomidae in the bottom sediments of the slough. Haptobenthos were more abundant in the side channel than in the slough, primarily because of comparatively high numbers of Trichoptera and Ephemeroptera which utilized submersed cover for attachment in the flowing side channel. Both zoobenthic communities were comprised of taxa known to be important as food for river fishes. If either zoobenthic community had been studied alone, speculation regarding which backwater habitat had the greatest food-producing potential would have been unfounded due to sampling bias. Both zoobenthic communities should be sampled in big-river habitat evaluations to obtain well-founded assessments of the relative abundance of all benthic macroinvertebrates. Our findings suggest that side channels may provide, in the form of haptobenthos, a more stable and available supply of macroinvertebrate fish food than sloughs during the summer.
10.2307/1467151|Taxa richness of the benthic macroinvertebrate community is often used as a simple and reliable water quality indicator. However, taxa richness for Chironomidae (S
10.2307/1467195|Odonate larvae have been characterized as nonselective predators because they are able to feed on a wide range of prey species. However, the relative proportions of particular prey species in the diet do not always match the relative abundances of those prey in the environment. This study examined the effects of two factors that potentially influence the diet of dragonfly larvae: prey size and presence of protective prey covering. Late-instar Leucorrhinia intacta larvae captured significantly greater numbers of large (10 mm) chironomid larvae over small (5 mm) chironomid larvae. Large chironomid larvae removed from their gelatinous cases were taken in significantly greater numbers than comparable larvae with cases. These results are considered relative to the potential impact of odonate larvae on prey populations found in the littoral zone.
10.2307/3259442|The types, numbers, and distributions of the external processes of antennal sensilla of the adult and larva of the caddisfly, Nectopsyche albida, were studied with SEM. The male antenna, composed of approximately 100 segments, is about twice the length of the female antenna (ca. 75 segments). Males and females possess at least seven different kinds of possible antennal sensilla. The male exhibits an additional long annulated 5. chaeticum. Both sexes have three other types of 5. chaetica, two types of 5. basiconica, and one type of s. campaniformium and 5. squamiformium. Generally, s. basiconica and 5. campaniformia are most abundant on the basal flagellomeres. All five larval instars possess a single, distally located s. trichodeum.
10.2307/1467172|A 46 km section of the Dolores River, in southwest Colorado, was studied to determine the relative abundance of invertebrate functional groups over an altitudinal gradient of 500 m during three seasons. The Dolores River is a third order stream with an average width of 11 m in the upper 8 km of the study area. In the lower 38 km of the study area, it is a fourth order stream with an average width of 15 m. Benthic invertebrates were collected with a modified Hess sampler in October 1980, and March and August 1981, from 11 stations on the Dolores River. Despite little change in either stream order, width or apparent food resources in the study area, there were noticeable differences in the relative abundance of functional groups, with shredders most abundant upstream and collectors most abundant in the mid-reaches. The observed trends were highly dependent upon season with shredders abundant at most stations only in spring. This was a result of life history patterns of winter stoneflies, the primary shredders. Collector-gatherers were most abundant at the upper-middle stations in summer, but were less abundant in the other two seasons. In general, the pattern appeared to conform more to the altitudinal shifts in benthic species composition than to stream order or width. This led to shifts in the assigned functional groups without noticeable changes in food resources.
10.2307/3259439| The fauna inhabiting the substrate in a small oligotrophic lake, Grane Langs, Denmark was sampled during July 1977, along a 100 m transect extending from shoreline to 11 m depth. This transect passed through two vegetative and two mud zones. A total of 79 taxa were identified using two sampling techniques. Most taxa showed a habitat preference for either mud or vegetative substrates. Among the animals inhabiting the vegetative substrates, we detected 4 distinct groups -- organisms that had peak numbers in shallow water (<0.5 m), another group that was abundant in the deeper zone (6.3-10.2 m), and two other groups that had peak abundance in or near the plant boundaries of either the upper or lower zone. Peaks in diversity and abundance were found at 0.5 m, and at the lower boundary of both vegetative zones. The peak at 0.5 m corresponded to maximum plant biomass and a morphometric discontinuity. 
10.2307/1467178|Diets of conditioned alder (Alnus rubra) leaves, alder plus fatty acid methyl esters, alder plus aquatic hyphomycete fungi, fungi alone, and alder plus wheat were fed to larvae of the shredder caddisfly, Clistoronia magnifica (Trichoptera: Limnephilidae), at two temperatures. Larvae did not complete development on the alder or alder plus fatty acids diets. Larvae fed diets of alder plus fungi and fungi alone completed development to adults but failed to reproduce. Alder plus wheat fed larvae completed development and reproduced. Large triglyceride stores synthesized from wheat starch allowed reproduction in alder plus wheat fed animals. Nitrogen did not appear to limit reproduction because protein content of animals did not differ between diets. Temperature did not affect survival or growth rate. However, at the higher, non-optimal temperature, triglyceride levels were reduced during the pupal stage of animals fed alder plus wheat. It is suggested that food quality should be defined in terms of reproductive capacity and that temperature-food quality interactions are mediated through lipid metabolism in this insect.
10.2307/1467138| Three species of the net spinning caddisfly genus Hydropsyche occur sympatrically in the Flathead River, Montana. Life histories, relative abundance, longitudinal distributions and microhabitats of H. cockerelli, H. oslari and H. occidentalis were investigated with particular reference to the role of temperature and organic and inorganic seston. Larvae of all three species occurred at all riverine (4th to 6th order) sampling sites except in the immediate tailwaters of Hungry Horse Dam. There were no apparent differences in longitudinal distribution between species and microhabitat differentiation was not observed. Frequently, retreats of different species were located beside that of another on the same rock or boulder. H. cockerelli and H. oslari were significantly (P < 0.05) more abundant than H. occidentalis at all sampling sites. H. cockerelli larvae grew primarily during late summer and early autumn while temperatures were > 7C. Larvae overwintered in 5th instar and emerged as adults in mid-June. H. oslari larvae, although present in early instars during autumn, remained in early instars through the winter months and grew during spring. Adults emerged during late June and July. H. occidentalis larval appearance and growth occurred approximately six weeks behind H. cockerelli larvae. Thus, most growth occurred at temperatures < 7C. We concluded that the delayed growth may have contributed directly, in terms of temperature response, to the infrequency of H. occidentalis larvae. 
10.2307/1467194|Distribution and abundance of midges (Diptera: Chironomidae) along a water depth gradient were studied in thermal and ambient temperature areas of a reservoir in the southeastern United States. Benthic samples were taken at 10 depths (0.16-5 m) during the winter and spring of 1978. Density, genera richness, and genera diversity increased progressively from the shore line to moderately shallow depths (1-2 m) and then decreased at greater depths. This pattern of benthos distribution in Par Pond is compared with those in other lentic systems. Causes for this pattern are multiple but probably relate to habitat complexity (vegetation) and substrate characteristics.
10.2307/1467182|The range of Anodonta implicata in the Connecticut River prior to 1970 was known not to extend upstream from Hartford, Connecticut. Since 1970 A. implicata has increased its range upstream in the Connecticut River to Bellows Falls, Vermont. This rapid range expansion appears to be correlated with chronological episodes of clupeid fish restoration above successive dams in the Connecticut River. Anodonta implicata, therefore, can be used as an indicator of success of clupeid fish restoration.
10.2307/3259443|A floating platform containing individual microcosms was used in field experiments for examining the role of predatory dragonfly nymphs in affecting the structure of benthic macroinvertebrate communities. When manipulating small macroinvertebrates, this technique has advantages over the traditional field cages, e.g., the emigration and immigration of macroinvertebrates can be regulated without resorting to total enclosure with excessively small mesh size.
10.2307/1467113|The effects of seasonally reduced stream discharge on insect drift and stranding were studied in two experimental channels on the Grande Ronde River, Oregon. Five experiments were conducted (spring, summer and fall, 1980 and spring and fall, 1981) at three test flows (0.57, 0.28 and 0.03 m
10.2307/1467130|Ripistes is a monospecific genus (containing only R. parasita (Schmidt)) easily distinguished from other naidid worms by the bundles of extremely long capilliform chaetae on body segments VI-VIII. Its occurrence in New York State is the first record of the genus outside the Palearctic region. In general, the New York specimens conformed to the morphological traits of the Palearctic material, but none were more than half as long as the known maximum length, some dorsal and ventral chaetae were somewhat shorter, and the penial chaetae were occasionally more numerous and always considerably longer. The New York specimens were collected from hardboard artificial substrate samplers, usually with several other species of naidids. The use of artificial substrates may have been instrumental in finding the species, since it is known to live on the surfaces of submerged objects, rather than on the benthic substrate per se.
10.2307/1467198|Species of dabbling ducks which co-occur on, and obtain invertebrates from potholes in prairie Canada do not display habitat- and diet-niche complementarity as predicted by competition theory. We hypothesized that this was because some aspect of the diet niche of ducks was not independent of the habitat niche. Because dabbling ducks partition invertebrate foods on the basis of size, we tested whether invertebrate size distributions in potholes were influenced by microhabitat structure. Activity traps were used to sample aquatic invertebrates weekly from late May to early July at 50 sites over a gradient of water depth and emergent and submergent vegetation density. Presence of submergent vegetation correlated significantly with invertebrate size; emergent vegetation density and water depth accounted significantly for additional variation in invertebrate size. Invertebrate size also decreased with time over all sites. These patterns 1) are consistent with a general theory of the distribution of particle sizes in aquatic environments and 2) point out the problem of testing for patterns of niche complementarity among coexisting predators of invertebrates when some characteristics of the invertebrate resource by which predators partition it, like size, is not independent of a habitat gradient which the predators also partition.
10.2307/3259451|A generalized relationship between the basic characteristics of shore fly habitats and the spatial patterns of the habitats' species diversity (H'), richness and evenness was derived using linear step-wise multiple regression. We postulated that there are 13 basic characteristics of all ephydrid habitats and that these characteristics are important in regulating species diversity and abundance patterns. The variation in species diversity (H') was primarily accounted for by frequency of inundation (36.6%),] substrate moisture (17.3%), physical stability (14.5%), and the presence of sand (5.7%). The variation in species richness was primarily accounted for by the type of vegetation (30.0%), the abundance of vegetation (22.6%), the presence of running water (14.0%), substrate moisture (11.4%), and the frequency of inundation (7.1%). The variation in species evenness was primarily accounted for by the presence of sand (42.1%), presence of a shore (18.0%), presence of standing water (9.8%), presence of mud (8.1%), abundance of vegetation (7.2%), and frequency of inundation (6.7%). The results of this study indicate that not all evolutionary responses of shore flies to the environment need to be fine-tuned but can at times be rather generalized.
10.2307/1467088|The freshwater unionid bivalve, Elliptio complanata (Solander), has an aggregated distribution in Morice Lake, New Brunswick, Canada. Respiration rate, as measured in a 23 liter respirometer under varying degrees of aggregation, showed a significant decline as the number of bivalves was increased from 1 to 7 and then remained constant. Preliminary experiments suggest that a single individual uses oxygen at the same rate as each individual in a larger group when placed in water previously containing the larger group. It is hypothesized that the presence of other individuals in the vicinity in some way makes each individual more 'comfortable' and consequently lowers the extent to which water is transported to sense the environment which in turn reduces respiration rate.
10.2307/3259445|Aulophorus pectinatus Stephenson, 1931, is renamed Dero (Aulophorus) intermedia nomen novum because of its congeneric relationship with Dero pectinata Aiyer, 1930. The species is recorded from Pennsylvania and Louisiana in North America.
10.2307/1467116| Laboratory-reared G. complanata cultured in changing water temperatures, which simulated those experienced in the field, produced eggs under a 12L/12D photoperiod, natural light conditions and continual darkness. In two regimes which incorporated accelerated 'field-temperature' changes and a natural photoperiod, egg-laying occurred only in the least accelerated regime. Leeches failed to mature at constant temperatures within the range 10.5 to 23C under two separate photoperiods, viz. 12L/12D and natural light conditions. It is concluded that changing temperature conditions, perhaps a period of low temperatures followed by rising and higher temperatures, is an essential stimulus for egg production and that photoperiod is not involved. 
10.2307/1467102|The benthic macroinvertebrate communities of three low-order streams in southeast Alaska exhibiting pre- and post logging conditions were examined. The logged watersheds had the highest densities and biomass of benthic macroinvertebrates, while an unlogged coniferous climax forest watershed had the lowest. Benthic macroinvertebrate community composition was similar for key species among the three streams. Collector-gatherers were generally the most abundant functional group comprising up to 80% of the insect community; predator-engulfers were the second most abundant functional group. Salmonid fishes greatly altered the macroinvertebrate community composition during spawning because of mass disturbance of the streambed. Gravels disturbed during spawning were most rapidly recolonized by mayflies and stoneflies, especially Alloperla spp.
10.2307/1467159|Larvae of the caddisfly Helicopsyche borealis (Trichoptera: Helicopsychidae) build portable cases of sand grains which are spiraled and resemble snail shells. Distributional, architectural and experimental data were examined to determine the role of the helical case in the microdistribution of this species. Both crushing resistance and hydrodynamics were probable selection pressures in the evolution of the coiled case architecture. This evolution probably took place in open-canopied streams where H. borealis larvae were grazers on periphyton-covered rock surfaces. In this habitat, the spiral shape of the case prevented larvae from being crushed during spates. Hydrodynamic aspects of the case shape allowed the larvae grazing access on surfaces exposed to current.
10.2307/1467171|The response of littoral invertebrate populations to exclusion of fish (principally small bluegill sunfish, Lepomis macrochirus) from allochthonous detritus habitats in Bays Mountain Lake, Sullivan County, Tennessee, was monitored from mid-March until mid-June 1980. The following taxa reached densities within fish exclosures that were significantly higher than those in control nets on at least one occasion: Alona, Chydorus, and Eurycercus (Cladocera: Chydoridae); cyclopoid copepods; non-predaceous midges (Chironominae and Orthocladinae) and predaceous midges (Ceratopogonidae and Tanypodinae). Evidence for the direct effect of fish predation on prey densities was most convincing for Chydorus during their "spring crash" in early April, Eurycercus during a less dramatic decline in late April to early May, and for non-predaceous midges after three months of fish exclusion in mid-June. Each of these taxa was an important component of the diet of small bluegill sunfish during the relevant time periods.
10.2307/1467142|Experiments were conducted to determine why gelatinous egg masses of the caddisfly Nemotaulius hostilis (Hagen) liquefy upon emergence of first instar larvae. Larvae did not feed on the polysaccharide matrix and thus, consumption did not cause its liquefaction. Destruction of portions of the matrix by various mechanical means, including the simulation of larval movement by small pins moving under the influence of an oscillating magnetic field, did not result in liquefaction. End-attacking enzymes apparently did not cause degradation of the matrix either. We hypothesize that enzymes which attack the central portions of the polysaccharide chains are involved.
10.2307/1467174|Two mantle pigmentation patterns of Bulinus (Physopsis) africanus are governed by codominant alleles of one gene. The mantle patterns of the homozygous strains are 1) solid, black pigmentation covering the mantle and 2) mottled, black pigmentation. The mantle pattern of heterozygotes is intermediate between the two homozygous patterns.
10.2307/1467158|Physicochemical and biotic characteristics of a headwater stream community above an impoundment on the Sante Fe River, New Mexico, were compared to those in its tailwaters. There was less seasonality in abiotic factors, particularly in discharge and temperature below the impoundment. The streambed below the reservoir was more heterogenous and more stable than that above. Macroinvertebrate density was almost five times greater below the reservoir as a result of enhanced temperature and flow constancy, greater substrate stability and the abundance of aquatic macrophytes at this site. Species richness was also greater below the impoundment and was directly related to its habitat heterogeneity. Reduced discharge and more constant temperatures in conjunction with extremely high macroinvertebrate densities resulted in reduced diversity below the impoundment. Evenness was also reduced. An analysis of seasonal evenness variances and a study of the seasonal abundance patterns of individual taxa indicated that the more constant physicochemical conditions below the reservoir probably decreased biotic interactions and reduced the community stability at this site.
10.2307/1467186|Aspects of the ecology of Pontoporeia hoyi (Smith) were studied at a 15-m and a 42-m deep site along the southeastern shoreline of Lake Michigan. At these shallow and deep sites, respectively, average densities were 3234 and 8292/m
10.2307/1467165|Two laboratory experiments were conducted to determine what effect access to the water column might have on the predation of Daphnia schodleri by damselflies. In both trails, the presence of a perching substrate significantly increased predation by increasing the predator-prey encounter rate. Larger damselflies were observed to have higher predation rates than smaller size forms.
10.2307/1467160|During the summer of 1984, free-swimming colonial rotifers were collected incidental to field studies on mosquitoes in 335 rice fields in southwestern Louisiana. Six of the seven known species of free-swimming colonial flosculariid rotifers were found: Lacinularia elliptica Shepard, L. flosculosa (Mueller), L. ismailoviensis (Poggenpol), Sinantherina semibullata (Thorpe), S. socialis (Linnaeus) and S. spinosa (Thorpe). Lacinularia causeyae n. sp., a species new to science, was collected and is described herein. Of the 335 fields sampled, 225 fields had at least one species of these rotifers, which were locally abundant. Estimates of relative abundance are presented.
10.2307/3259454| Hyalella montezuma, an endemic planktonicamphipod in Montezuma Well, Arizona, filtered suspensions of a green alga, Coccomyxa sp. (2-4m) in the laboratory at rates averaging 7.9 ml/ day. A mixed suspension of phytoplankton (2-35m) was filtered at average rates of 15.6 ml/ day. Both the unialgal culture of Coccomyxa and mixed suspension were collected from Montezuma Well. Hyalella azteca is a co-inhabitant in the littoral region in Montezuma Well. Under the same experimental design, H. azteca showed negligible uptake of phytoplankton. Increases in filtering rates for H. montezuma were significantly correlated with increases in amphipod body length. This is the first evidence, based on laboratory experiments, of a freshwater gammaridean amphipod displaying the ability to filter-feed. 
10.2307/1467094|Female Glebula rotundata (Lamarck 1819) were examined every two weeks from August 1978 through November 1979. The population was reproductively active, i.e., marsupium functioning as a brood pouch, from March through early October. Females recharge soon after discharging glochidia larvae, thus initiating another cycle. Each female clam may reproduce three times a year. This reproductive cycle is atypical of other Lampsilini. Two species of sunfish, Lepomis cyanellus and Lepomis macrochirus, served as suitable hosts for G. rotundata under laboratory conditions. Glochidia successfully metamorphosed after attaching to gill filaments and fins of these species. Our studies suggest that fish near large populations of G. rotundata avoid parasitism by G. rotundata glochidia, and recruitment of young clams is low. Glebula rotundata larvae were found on two estuarine fish species Trinectes maculatus and Anchoa mitchilli, which may explain the occasional presence of G. rotundata in estuarine habitats.
10.2307/1467179|Anodonta cataracta from Layton's Lake are more abundant (24.3/m
10.2307/1467143| Brarbidrilus paucisetus Loden and Locy (Oligochaeta: Enchytraeidae) was found in the Mississippi River, thus extending its range from the eastern United States to the Midwest. The species was found in substrates composed primarily of medium (1) and coarser (2) sand with 5% silt and clay. 
10.2307/1467115|The larva and pupa of Thienemannimyia barberi (Coquillett) are described and compared with other known Thienemannimyia immatures and those of the closely related Conchapelopia (Meropelopia) species. Some ecological data are given and the group placement of T. barberi is discussed. The pupa described as Conchapelopia sp. in Roback (1981) belongs to this species.
10.2307/1467129| During times of average and low river flow, Prickett Hydrostation ceases operation at night and on weekends. To determine the effect of this intermittent mode of operation on downstream conditions, data on benthic macroinvertebrates, temperature, current velocity, width and depth were collected for 13 months at 5 sites along 15 km of the Sturgeon River immediately downstream from the hydrostation and at an upstream control site. During station operation, current velocity increased 2.6 times 200 m downstream and 1.2 times 10 km downstream, while depth increased 75 cm and 35 cm, respectively. Depending on stream morphology, width increased 0 to 10 m during operation. Maximum temperatures observed were 22C upstream, 24.5C immediately downstream from the station and 23C 10 km downstream. When the station was shut down, temperature fluctuation patterns were similar above and below the hydrostation. During operation, temperature fluctuations were reduced downstream. At the site 200 m below the hydrostation, invertebrate biomass averaged 6.9 times greater than at the upstream site and 2.5 times greater than 10 km downstream. The average number of taxa collected 200 m below the station was 12% less than at the upstream site and the site 10 km downstream, and included 6 genera of stoneflies, 9 genera of mayflies and 10 genera of caddisflies. Intermittent operation of this hydroelectric station did not have a severe adverse effect on downstream benthos and produced downstream temperature fluctuation patterns more like those upstream than would continuous operation. 
10.2307/1467161|We examined the effect of depth upon the colonization of macroinvertebrates on rock basket samplers employed in the Tennessee River and Pickwick Lake, Hardin County, Tennessee. The number of individuals and the number of taxa on samplers varied proportionately with depth. The mean number of taxa for all paired samplers was 7.3 at 0.5 m and 9.8 at 1.5 m, while the mean number of individuals was 2,528 and 8,691 at 0.5 m and 1.5 m, respectively. The distribution of individuals within genera, within the major taxa Chironomidae, Trichoptera, and Oligochaeta, and within functional feeding groups differed significantly between samplers from different depths, with a greater number of individuals occurring on deep samplers. Speculations are offered regarding reasons for the differences in numbers of organisms between depths.
10.2307/1467137|A population of the freshwater viviparid prosobranch snail, Viviparus georgianus, was studied in an eutrophic lake in western Connecticut. Male and female life spans were two and three years, respectively. Females grew longer and relatively wider than males. Shell growth of width to height was allometric and similar in pattern to another viviparid, Cipangopaludina chinensis. Growth rates were rapid after the lake warmed in spring and were negligible during winter. Mortality was relatively low for younger snails, and the death of the eldest cohort was a highly synchronized event occurring in late spring. Reproduction was semelparous. Females brooded a single batch of eggs for nine months during their third year (27-36 months old), released the young in April, and died at 38 months of age. The population demonstrated a migratory pattern which resulted in deep water winter aggregations and shallow water summer aggregations. Older males and females migrated together but the youngest cohort tended to lag behind.
10.2307/3259450|A study of the life history of the mayfly Siphlonurus mirus in relation to its development in an intermittent pond was conducted from April 1978 to May 1979 in Southwestern Virginia. The life cycle of S. mirus was univoltine with the peak emergence occuring about mid-May. Early nymphal instars did not appear in the pond until January. lt appeared that S. mirus oviposited in the stream above the pond, and the next generation remained in the stream during the dry season, probably diapausing in the egg stage. After the pond filled again in the autumn, S. mirus moved downstream as an early nymphal instar. Most development occurred from March to May. Nymphs were commonly found in soft sediment at the base of loose assemblages of decaying grasses or aquatic vascular plants. The diet consisted almost entirely of fine detritus. An intermittent pond with a consistent annual cycle provides an optimal habitat for the growth and development of species which have their life cycles synchronized with the rich food resources provided by the terrestrial vegetation that has undergone aerobic decomposition during the dry season.
10.2307/1467106|A core sampler is described which is especially suitable for sandy substrata. It consists of an 80 cm long, 5 cm diameter PVC tube mounted on a 2 cm diameter section of galvanized pipe. The closure device, situated between the tube and pipe, is a brass valve. The core sampler is pushed into the substratum from a boat, and the valve is closed by a pull cord. The sampler can be operated at water depths up to 5 m, at current velocities up to 1 m/s, and will retain sandy substrata with a median grain size of 2.0 mm or less. Average depth of penetration into the substratum was 25 cm.
10.2307/1467121|Studies of the caddisfly Helicopsyche borealis (Hagen) in Big Sulphur Creek (Sonoma Co., CA) from 1977-1983 indicated a single-cohort population with a univoltine life cycle. Most adult emergence occurred in May. Larval growth was rapid during summer, decreased in autumn and winter, and increased again in spring; larval instars could not be distinguished using head capsule measurements. Larval densities were as high as 28,000/m
10.2307/1467139| Patterns of odonate emergence were examined seasonally in a reservoir receiving thermal effluents. Exuviae were routinely removed from the interior sides of vertebrate predator exclusion cages. Size, distribution, mean emergence date, and synchronization of emergence were determined for nine species at six stations along a thermal gradient (19.7 to 25.6C). Mean emergence date varied significantly among species; the earlier emerging species were more synchronous. Temperature influenced the distribution of some of the species investigated. Most species had significant differences in emergence date among stations, and significant size differences among stations were found in three of the nine species. With the exception of the two earliest emerging species, the later in the year the emergence date, the smaller the individual emerging. 
10.2307/1467112|The components of the colonization cycle for aquatic invertebrates (drift, upstream movement within the stream, and female flight direction) were quantified for a small Pennsylvania stream. Diel periodicities were evident for both aquatic and terrestrial drift. A regression predicted a linear relation between the proportion of benthos in the drift and the degree of upstream female flight. Accordingly, insects commonly occurring in the drift (Chironomidae, Baetis spp., Ephemerella invaria) showed significant upstream flight of females, whereas those rarely found in the drift (Glossosoma intermedium and G. nigrior, Psychodidae, Hydroptila spp. and Ochrotrichia wojcickyi, Sialis spp.) did not show significant upstream flight of females. Organisms without a winged adult stage (Gammarus minus, Turbellaria) showed a greater degree of upstream movement in the stream. Upstream movement in the stream compensated for only 2.6% of the total aquatic drift in July.
10.2307/1467131|Juveniles of several Mesostoma species (M. appia, M. timbunke, M. wanum and M. zariae) predatory on aquatic stages of mosquitoes were found to be able to attack and kill mosquito larvae of all stages. Tests were carried out in Petri dishes containing one freshly hatched Mesostoma and one mosquito larva of the following species: Aedes aegypti, Anopheles stephensi and Culiseta melanura. Efficiency of M. appia varied from 50-90% of third and fourth instar larvae killed in 24 h and depends on the mosquito species. Individuals of Aedes and Anopheles are more susceptable than those of Culiseta. Other species of Mesostoma are less efficient against late instars but always eliminated more than 50% of the second instar larvae in 24 h. Differences in efficiency of predation are attributed to different sizes of predator species and to behavioral characteristics of mosquito species.
10.2307/3259435|The limnephilid caddisfly Hesperophylax occidentalis was collected from July 1978 through June 1979 from spring sources in the Piceance Basin, Colorado. H. occidentalis preferred the spring habitats to area streams downstream from spring sources. H. occidentalis exhibited a univoltine life cycle with extended emergence (April-October) and hatching (June-December) periods. Growth occurred mainly during autumn or winter depending on the time of egg laying. Gut analyses and laboratory observations showed that H. occidentalis can obtain food by several methods and will consume the most available food item.
10.2307/1467163|To determine the effect of placer mining on benthic macroinvertebrates we determined selected water quality characteristics and sampled benthic invertebrates in nine hydrologically similar and proximally located streams, ranging from unmined to heavily mined streams. Placer mining caused increased turbidity, and increased amounts of settleable solids, and suspended sediment (nonfilterable residues). Sediment from placer mining was associated with decreased density and biomass of invertebrates. In a stream where mining began in mid-August, Orthocladiini (Diptera: Chironomidae) and Chloroperlid stoneflies decreased in abundance while they were not decreased in a nearby unmined stream. Water mites seemed to be the organisms most affected by placer mining.
10.2307/3259441|Scanning electron microscopy was used to study the morphology and possible functions of setae and setules on Mysis relicta appendages. Long setae and setules on the exopodite increase resistance to water when the appendage is set in motion, thus aiding the propagation of swimming, filter-feeding, and respiratory currents. In contrast, endopodite setae and setules are short and stout, and adapted for grasping and manipulating large prey items. Uropod setae are interlocked by primary and secondary setules which resists the flow of water through the tail fan and improves the efficiency of the appendage. The antennal scale exhibits setation similar to that of the uropod. This and the orientation of the scale while swimming indicate a natatory function, possibly as a stabilizer. A fringe of setae around the oostegite shows a somewhat similar interlocking pattern, but the postulated function is structural rather than hydrodynamic; the setae increase the effective size of the oostegite. This may become important as the brood gets very large. On the appendix masculina, short, spike-shaped projections present on the immature male give rise to long, curling setae on the adult. These setae are chemosensory and allow mature males to detect adult females in breeding conditon.
10.2307/1467148|The hypothesis tested was that snail species with different diet preferences should exhibit different CMCase (carboxymethylcellulase) activities. CMCase activities of three species in a tempory pond, and two species in a permanent lake, in Indiana were determined. While the three temporary pond species have significantly different diet preferences (Brown 1982), a one-way ANOVA of CMCase activities yielded no significant difference (P>0.05), suggesting that cellulolytic enzymes were not being used in niche separation when the snails were collected. Reducing sugars were formed when homogenates of Aplexa, Lymnaea, Physa, and Goniobasis were incubated with microcrystalline cellulose, demonstrating that these species can degrade native cellulose for possible nutritive value. CMCase activities of different parts of the digestive system of Pseudosuccinea columella were determined in snails from two locations in Rhode Island. A two-way ANOVA indicated a possible pond effect (P=0.079), strengthening the conclusion of no CMCase activity differences among the Indiana woodland species. Activity in the stomach was significantly (P<0.05) greater than that observed in the digestive gland in both freshly collected and starved individuals. Starvation did not significantly reduce CMCase activity.
10.2307/1467105|Helisoma anceps display decreasing individual respiration rates with increasing numbers in the respirometers. Single snails are oxygen regulators while snails in groups are partial conformers.
10.2307/1467101| Laboratory findings regarding water and air temperature effects on the growth rate and emergence success of Hexagenia bilineata and field observations of emergence patterns of H. bilineata under known thermal regimes are compared. Several hypotheses based on laboratory results are evaluated. The hypothesis that degree-day accumulation requirements could be used to predict the intervals between onset of emergence each year was rejected. The laboratory derived regression showing that approximately 2337 degree-Celsius days (days having temperature above 10 C) were required for development from oviposition to emergence correlated very well with the degree-days actually occurring (2322 and 2192 degree-Celsius days) in two succeeding years in a cove representing a normal thermal condition. However, in a thermally enriched cove, the predicted time required for development was exceeded by 1500 to 1600 degree-Celsius days in two years of field observations. The hypothesis that a critical thermal threshold was required for complete development into the adult stage was neither strongly rejected nor supported by our field observations. Laboratory tests suggested a critical temperature threshold (between 15 and 20 C) might be involved in determining the onset of emergence. These results lead to a prediction of a four-week to six-week difference in the onset of emergence between the two field sites; however, only a two-week difference was observed. Air temperature is shown to affect survival after emergence but is irrelevant to the onset of emergence. A series of laboratory tests may be required to arrive at a good predictive model for thermal effects on any target species. 
10.2307/1467086|Mayfly and stonefly drift were studied during the ice-free season in two Colorado mountain rivers. Eleven and 12 species of mayflies and stoneflies, respectively, were collected in 416 samples, taken at eight daily time periods. Drift rates ranged 1-499/100 m
10.2307/1467122|Substrate associations and longitudinal distributions are described for 12 species of Ephemerellidae. Habitat specialization seems to have been a major means of adaptive radiation within this family. All species showed restrictive use of available habitats: sand-gravel, cobble, boulder, or moss. Patterns of longitudinal distribution may be, in part, a consequence of the specificity that species show for different substrates.
10.2307/1467180|During the study of the anatomy of mature Nephelopsis obscura and Erpobdella punctata the structure and distribution of the male and female reproductive organs were observed. The gonopores in N. obscura and E. punctata were separated by one and two annuli, respectively. In N. obscura, the multifollicular testes lie in two lateral columns in the form of bunches occupying the posterior third quarter of the body. Two U-shaped, elongated and tubular ovaries were present dorsal to the sperm duct and ventral to the alimentary canal, occupying five segments (XIII to XVII). The ratios between the body length and the length of the gonads (ovaries and testes) varied between 0.22 and 0.81. The length ratio of the testes to the ovaries ranged from 0.27 to 0.30. The reproductive organs of E. punctata were similar, although the ovaries and testes were longer.
10.2307/1467107|The unionid mussel Lampsilis ventricosa is a bundant in the upper Mississippi River and provides a model for studies related to recovery of the endangered Higgins' eye mussel (Lampsilis higginsi). We tested the suitability of two species of fish species as hosts for glochidia of L. ventricosa. Laboratory-reared largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) and walleyes (Stizostedion vitreum) were artificially infested with the glochidia of L. ventricosa and held separately in two flowthrough tanks for 21 days. Tank bottoms were siphoned daily, and the materials collected were examined for detached glochidia and metamorphosed juveniles. Juveniles were found in both tanks from day 13 post-exposure through day 20, indicating that largemouth bass and walleyes are suitable hosts for the glochidia of L. ventricosa.
10.2307/1467128|In steady state Hydra, one group of stem cell derived cell types, nematocytes, are regularly turned over due to feeding. The effects of removal of this normal physiological stimulus to cell turnover (by starvation) and its subsequent reimposition (by resumption of feeding) on the population dynamics of Hydra cell types was investigated. Starvation resulted in marked alterations in both the nerve and nematocyte populations. Upon resumption of feeding the regulatory activities necessary to restore steady state cell population proportions appear to be initiated, although the temporal expression of these controls is unique to each cell type.
10.2307/1467173|The size, weight and calcium content were determined for fifteen species of mollusks in 53 freshwater habitats between the limestone formations near Guelph and the granite basement rock in the Sudbury district of Ontario. These morphological variables were related to four buffer variables of water using a canonical correlation analysis. Results showed that the main effect of a decrease in buffering capability and an increase in noncarbonate anion content is a short but heavily calcified shell in Amnicola limosa, Valvata tricarinata, Campeloma decisum, Pisidium casertanum, Pisidium variabile, Sphaerium simile, Sphaerium striatinum and Anodonta grandis grandis. Waters with increasing buffering capability relative to calcium hardness result in short, heavily calcified shells in Elliptio complanata and longer shells with increases in tissue calcium relative to weight in Helisoma anceps and Musculium secris. The latter effect is also found in Pisidium compressum but increasing calcium concentration is more important. Short shells with decreasing calcium content relative to weight is related to decreasing calcium bicarbonate alkalinity relative to total hardness for Physella gyrina but to increases in these buffer variables for Cincinnatia cincinnatiensis. All species except E. complanata showed more than one significant canonical variate suggesting that acidic deposition would not be a factor in the disappearance of any species from water with pH > 5.50.
10.2307/1467188|A cone-shaped wire basket filled with substrate material and closed by means of an inverted weighted funnel was found to alleviate the problem of loss of fauna during retrieval. This style of basket was found to collect the same groups of organisms in similar proportions as a conventional cylindrical wire basket operated by a diver. Loss of organisms was less than 1% of the total collected and was proportional among the taxa.
10.2307/1467120|The influence of macroinvertebrates on detrital processing was evaluated by excluding them from one of two small southern Appalachian streams. Exclusion in the treated stream was accomplished by periodic applications of 10 ppm of the insecticide methoxychlor. This caused massive invertebrate drift (>12,000 organisms/m
10.2307/1467114|Activity traps were compared to sweep nets for sampling nektonic invertebrates in shallow freshwater wetlands using Kendall Rank Correlation. There was a significant correlation for total invertebrates. The presence of fish and invertebrate predators in the activity traps, water temperature, and water depth did not affect the significance of the correlation for total invertebrates. The correlations for the two functional groups considered, herbivore-detritivores and predator-parasites, were significant. The presence of fish in the activity trap did affect the correlations for some individual taxa. There were no correlations for several taxa of predaceous invertebrates. Considering its advantages and limitations, the activity trap can be useful in many types of experimental and long-term studies of nektonic invertebrates.
10.2307/3259433| The fecal pellet mass of larval Anax junius of a given size is closely correlated with food intake. The fecal pellet mass under ad libitum feeding can be predicted from a knowledge of larval size, and the accuracy of the predictions is not sensitive to wide variation in the diurnal schedule of feeding, water temperature between 15 and 25, and dietary composition. Comparisons of masses of fecal pellets produced by field collected larvae with predicted masses for ad libitum feeding should, therefore, be a measure of the degree of food limitation in the field. 
10.2307/3259431|Classes of parameters (macroinvertebrate functional feeding groups, periphyton, transported and benthic organic matter) were examined by means of polar ordination techniques to determine distribution along a gradient from headwaters to large rivers. Functional group composition changed in a curvilinear fashion along the gradient. The largest portion of ecological change occurred within the headwater and small stream portion of the gradient and only slight changes occurred above a stream size of link magnitude 1000. The composition of stored and transported organic matter, together, changed in a linear fashion along the gradient in a manner similar to that found for macroinvertebrates. However, the difference in the form of the response suggests that environmental factors affect the combined composition of organic matter more evenly than functional feeding groups over the whole of a river system. All ordinations considered in this study sustain the conclusion that the ecological characterization of a study site is a function of its position along the stream environmental gradient. Thus, macroscopic patterns of ecological change within river systems as detected by the polar ordination technique, are both orderly and predictable in a downstream direction.
10.2307/1467152|We sampled benthos from the St. Marys River in May 1974 and May 1975 to determine visibly the occurrence of sorpted oil and the distribution of nymphs of the burrowing mayfly Hexagenia in the bottom of the Lake George and Lake Nicolet channels. Results of our survey showed that, between 1967 and 1974-75, the occurrence of oil in the substrate of the Lake George Channel had advanced from 16 km to 30 km downstream from the point where oil is discharged at Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario. Absence or low densities of nymphs coincided with the presence of oil in the sediments. In the Lake Nicolet Channel, evidence of oil pollution was meager and the density of Hexagenia nymphs was generally high.
10.2307/1467096| Prostoia completa, Isoperla namata and Phasganophora capitata nymphs captured from a second order stream in northeastern Oklahoma were exposed to a steady rise in temperature of 0.34C/min to determine their critical thermal maxima (CTM). At a collection temperature of 6.5C, the univoltine, winter emerging P. completa had a significantly lower mean CTM (31.5C) than the univoltine, spring emerging I. namata and semivoltine, summer emerging P. capitata which had mean CTMs of 33.2 and 33.4C, respectively. A one month age difference in I. namata (February to March) had no significant effect on mean CTM, and neither head capsule width nor sex of nymphs had a significant effect on the CTM within any of the three species. Phasganophora capitata nymphs collected at 6.5C and acclimated to 17.0C had a significantly higher mean CTM (36.3C) than those maintained at the 6.5C collection temperature (33.4C). Isoperla namata treated similarly did not show a significant increase in temperature tolerance. Therefore, it appears that adaptation to summer emergence or the evolution of a semivoltine life cycle by P. capitata includes a greater ability for tolerance acclimation than found in I. namata. 
10.2307/1467108|The stream bottom is stratified into different substrate types and each substrate is sampled separately. The area of each substrate and the sampling site is measured. This allows a more accurate estimation of the ecological density of a benthic species as well as its crude density.
10.2307/1467141| Penis sheath resorption substance (PSRS) found in segment XI of Tubifex tubifex (Mller) during resorption of the reproductive structures caused significant loss of capilliform setae and the probable replacement of pectinate setae by bifurcated setae. The effect of PSRS on setal type and distribution is regarded as secondary, in that the primary effect is the resorption of the penis sheath and perhaps other reproductive structures during reproductively inactive periods. 
10.2307/1467089|Functional group structure of benthic macroinvertebrate communities was compared among three distinct reaches of the Redwood River, a plains stream in southwestern Minnesota. Deciduous leaf-fall comprised the allochthonous organic input to the upstream site, typical of a woodland stream; at the middle site, fine particulate organic matter, derived from soils in agricultural croplands, comprised the main allochthonous import; and at the lower site, soil-derived particulates and zooplankton from an impoundment comprised the main organic import. Mineral fine particulates, primarily silt, entered the stream during most of the year. The upstream site was most similar to other woodland streams in its functional invertebrate structure, with shredders and collectors both well represented. In the middle and downstream communities, collectors were quantitatively most important, with gatherers in depositional reaches and filterers in erosional reaches. Instability of physical habitat, influenced by heavy siltation from agricultural croplands appeared to favor a community of generalist collectors.
10.2307/1467187| This study was designed to assess growth rates of Corbicula fluminea under summer and winter conditions. A total of 80 small C. fluminea individuals were segregated into three shell length classes based on initial shell length. Thirty clams were assigned to Class I (<10 mm); 25 to Class II (10 to 11.9 mm); and 25 to Class III (12 to 14 mm), and placed in separate cages in the Kanawha River at Marmet, West Virginia, for a 12 week period (16 July thru 7 October 1983) when mean water temperature was 26.6C. 'Warm water' growth rates (length/weight) were: Class I, 0.95 mm/week and 0.27 gm/week; Class II, 0.86 mm/week and 0.29 gm/week; Class III, 0.80 mm/week and 0.30 gm/week. An additional 78 clams were assigned to the same shell length classes and maintained in the Kanawha River for a 12 week period (11 October 1983 through 3 January 1984) when mean water temperature was 10.3C. Thirty-three clams were assigned to Class I; 30 to Class II; and 15 to Class III. 'Cold water' growth rates were: Class I, 0.09 mm/week and 0.009 gm/week; Class II, 0.08 mm/week and 0.013 gm/week. Class III clams were destroyed by a predator. Summer growth rates were approximately 10.7 times higher than winter growth rates based on length and 22-32 times higher based on weight. In addition, smaller clams had higher growth rates than larger clams. 
10.2307/1467103|Oxygen consumption was measured for four species of fairy shrimp (Eubranchipus serratus, Streptocephalus texanus, S. seali and Thamnocephalus platyurus) over the normal range of temperatures encountered by the animals in Missouri. Q
10.2307/1467140|The passive transfer by ducks of two parasitic sanguivorous species (Theromyzon rude and Placobdella papillifera) and two predatory species (Helobdella stagnalis and Nephelopsis obscura) of freshwater leeches was examined experimentally using both adults and cocoons. T. rude adults were transferred both in the nares, while feeding, and also on the duck's body. P. papillifera were transferred at a lower rate on the duck's body only, while H. stagnalis and N. obscura were not transported at all. Ingested adults were not recovered from the faeces of the ducks, but viable N. obscura cocoons were recovered from the faeces of fed ducks. It is concluded that passive transport by birds is probable for the parasitic sanguivorous species and those leeches which attach their cocoons to macrophytes. The evidence does not support the proposal of passive dispersal by ducks for H. stagnalis, a predatory Glossiphoniidae, despite its cosmopolitan distribution.
10.2307/3259452| Both larva and adult of three riffle beetle species (Elmidae), Stenelmis crenata, S. mera, and Optioservus trivittatus, fed primarily on detritus ( 68.3%), while green algae and diatoms constituted the remaining major dietary components. Minor differences in dietary components were noted, but these differences do not appear to contribute significantly to resource partitioning among elmid adults or larvae of different species, or between adults and larvae of conspecifics. Riffle beetles have generally been described as herbivores but evidence suggests that "detritivore-herbivores" would be a more appropriate classification. 
10.2307/1467185| Lestes disjunctus is a common damselfly found in small, densely vegetated temporary ponds such as the Rocky Mountain 'bog pond' studied. Hatch occurs at ice melt in May, growth is rapid and emergence is in late July. Dissolved oxygen (DO) and temperature vary considerably during this time. During a 'typical' late July day temperature and DO may range from minima at dawn of 12C and 3.1 ppm (lowest 1.8 ppm) to maxima at 1700 h of 22C (highest 25.5C) and 7.6 ppm. One mode of adaptation to such variable temperature conditions is low Q
10.2307/3259434|A previously-developed Food Limitation Index (FLI) for larvae of the dragonfly Anax junius (Drury) was used to measure the food consumption of these animals in four water bodies in southern Ontario. Most mean FLI values from the dragonfly samples did not indicate strong food limitation, but at all sites the degree of limitation tended to increase late in the summer. The FLI could discriminate differences in food limitation among water bodies and seasons through analysis of variance. Food consumption of individual larvae was positively correlated with prey density in their immediate vicinity over the lower part of the natural range of prey densities. Five of 12 measurements of average prey densities in ponds were above the level at which larval food intake stopped responding to increasing prey density. The degree of food limitation tended to increase at unusually high Anax densities. An auxiliary measure of food limitation, percent of larvae with empty guts, did not correlate well with the FLI. The FLI appears to be a useful tool for measuring food limitation and for studying some factors that affect the level of limitation in the field.
